1875 .
] Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
51 it may be expected , a fortiori , that it can decompose one of its own salts .
Instances of this are not wanting .
Magnesium connected with platinum will decompose a magnesium salt , the almost insoluble hydrate of magnesium being found adhering to the negative metal .
The deposition of zinc on the plates of an old-fashioned battery , when the battery is pretty well exhausted , is a well-known phenomenon .
In our experiments with copper and silver , in conjunction in a solution of nitrate of copper , we never succeeded in reducing the galvanic action to nil by our utmost efforts to exclude all oxygen : and the whole of the present inquiry originated in an experiment described by us before the Physical Society , that mercury and gold in conjunction would decompose mercuric chloride with the deposition not only of the lower chloride , but also of metallic mercury upon the gold .
[ We reserve for further consideration the part played by the water in these decompositions , and the bearing of the experiments on the rival theories of voltaic action.\#151 ; Nov. 26 , ] II .
" On the Production of Glycosuria by the Effect of Oxygenated Blood on the Liver.- " ( Supplement to Communication presented June 17th , 1875 .
) By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.R.S. Received August 12th , 1875 .
In my former communication I showed that the injection of defibri-nated arterial blood into the portal system occasioned the immediate production of marked glycosuria .
In the present supplement to it I purpose treating of the production of glycosuria by other conditions , leading to the portal blood being surcharged with oxygen .
There are also certain collateral considerations which I shall afterwards proceed to refer to .
After noticing the fact which has been mentioned , it occurred to me to try the effect of endeavouring to saturate the blood with oxygen , through the medium of respiration , to an extent beyond the capacity existing in the systemic capillaries for reducing it to its ordinary venous condition .
I first directed my efforts to attain the object desired by causing an animal to breathe oxygen instead of air .
The oxygen employed was obtained from a mixture of chlorate of potash and peroxide of manganese .
I constructed a vulcanized india-rubber mouthpiece , to fit tightly over the muzzle of the dog and exclude the entrance of air .
This tapered off and was connected with a piece of vulcanized tubing , which passed to a balloon containing the oxygen for use .
A valvular arrangement was provided to allow only the oxygen from the balloon to enter the chest during inspiration , and to cause the 52 Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
[ Nov. 25 , , expired gas to be expelled without re-entering the balloon .
In this way the respiration of oxygen could be easily kept up as desired .
I found that when the gas was breathe 'd without being purified , it acted as a powerful irritant upon the respiratory passages\#151 ; exciting cough , difficulty of breathing ( apparently from spasmodic contraction of the bronchial tubes ) , and a profuse flow of mucous secretion .
The cough and excessive secretion continued for two or three days and showed that { .
bronchitis had been set up .
I at first attributed these symptoms to the presence of chlorine , for the gas possessed wThat appeared to be a chlo-rinous odour .
On testing for chlorine , however , no reaction was procurable .
Ozone was then looked for , and a strongly marked indication of its presence obtained .
Acting upon this information , the gas was passed over peroxide of manganese in a granulated state , and was found to be completely deprived of both chlorinous odour and irritating effect upon the respiratory passages .
It could now be breathed without any inconvenience whatever being noticeable .
Passage through water also to some extent diminished its odour and irritant action .
While , therefore , ozone acts as a powerful irritant upon the air-passages , oxygen is devoid of any irritating property .
The observations above recorded were made in 1874 .
In the second supplement to Watt 's ' Dictionary of Chemistry ' ( 1875 ) , I find under the article " Ozone " that the chemical part of the question has recently formed the subject of discussion by others .
Special properties are spoken of as belonging to the gas evolved from a mixture of chlorate of potash and peroxide of manganese ; and while some attribute these to the presence of chlorine , Witt , in harmony with my own observations , affirms that they are due to ozone and not to chlorine .
With these preliminary remarks I come to the description of the results obtained by the respiration of oxygen in relation to the subject of this communication .
Amongst several experiments conducted upon the dog , I have met with the production of saccharine urine upon two occasions , while in the case of the others a negative result was yielded .
In one of the successful instances the animal was breathing the gas for 55 minutes .
It took deep inspirations , and no irritation was excited , nor did any subsequent ill-effect arise .
Iudeed all that was specially noticeable , besides the deep breathing , was that at the end of the 55 minutes a state of apncea was induced , such as is known to be occasioned by increased respiratory action .
It was from this occurrence that the inhalation of oxygen was discontinued , as I felt apprehensive about the issue .
In the course of a short time , however , the animal began to breathe in a natural way , and showed no signs of disturbance .
The urine was examined at the commencement of the experiment , and gave no reaction of sugar .
At the end of the 55 minutes there was also no decided indication of the presence of sugar ; but half an hour later it contained 9*6 grains of sugar 1875 .
] Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
to the fluid ounce ; half an hour later still , 10*48 grains ; and again 40 minutes after this , 6*31 grains to the fluid ounce .
At the completion of the inhalation some blood was collected from the jugular vein , and found to possess an intermediate colour between arterial and venous .
On examination for sugar a strong reaction was obtainable ; and through observing this , although no decided indication of the presence of sugar existed in the urine at the time , I was led to anticipate that it would be found , as proved to be the case , later on .
In the other successful experiment the inhalation was carried on in a deep and active manner for half an hour without any irritation of the air-passages being produced .
When discontinued , the urine was found to contain a trace of sugar ; and half an hour later sugar was present to the extent of 5*71 grains to the fluid ounce .
From observation I have been led to believe that the issue in these experiments with oxygen depends upon the manner in which the process of respiration happens to be carried on .
I have frequently noticed that the movements of the chest have been performed in a signally sluggish way .
In each of the experiments , on the other hand , where the production of glycosuria occurred , the breathing was carried on in a strikingly deep and active manner .
It is known that the muscular operation of respiration is ordinarily conducted with an inverse degree of activity to its effect upon the blood .
Through the accommodating relation existing , the more effective the oxygenation of the blood , the less actively are the movements of respiration performed ; and thus , although the animal may be supplied with oxygen instead of air , it does not follow that any altered result should occur .
In illustration of this I may state that upon one occasion I placed a guinea-pig in a sealed glass jar and kept a free current of purified oxygen passing through for the space of seven hours , without producing the slightest perceptible effect either at the time or afterwards upon the animal .
Some of my experiments with oxygen have been conducted upon frogs ; and the plan adopted has been to place the animal in a glass jar sealed at the bottom with water , and to pass a current of the gas continuously through it for varying lengths of time .
The urine is readily obtained by pressure over the bladder ; and by using a small test-tube the amount collected from one animal may be quite sufficient for testing .
Many of the experiments have been attended with a negative result ; but in some a faint though distinctly appreciable and in others a fairly strong reaction of sugar has been obtained .
Three or four hours ' time has sufficed for this effect to be noticed .
Finding that I was dependent in the above mode of experimenting upon the chance manner , as it seemed , in which the process of respiration was carried on , I determined to resort to the performance of artificial respiration for the purpose of removing the uncertainty that existed .
The artificial-respiration apparatus which for many years past I have been in the habit of using in my laboratory was constructed after my own 54 Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
[ Nov. 25 , design , and consists of two bellows so arranged and adapted with vulcanized tubing connected with a canula for ligaturing into the trachea , that : in working the one inflates and the other exhausts the lungs .
Valves i are provided so as to determine this result ; and with these in good order \#166 ; I have found , in common with what has been noticed by others , that respiration can be so effectively performed as to sufficiently surcharge : the blood with oxygen to induce a state of apnoea .
Now by means of the performance of artificial respiration with the | artificial-respiration apparatus referred to , I have succeeded in producing ] strongly saccharine urine , and this with the employment of atmospheric ; air .
In one experiment upon a dog , where the artificial respiration was i carried on for an hour , the urine , ten minutes after its cessation , gave a strong reaction of sugar .
In another experiment with the artificial respiration continued an hour and twenty minutes , the urine , which was collected ten minutes after its cessation , was also strongly charged with sugar , and thirty five minutes later showed on analysis the presence of II grains to the fluid ounce .
In each case , for the sake of precision , urine was collected and tested at the commencement of the experiment , and found to be free from sugar .
I am indebted to Dr. Lauder Brunton for directing my attention to a recorded existence of the production of glycosuria by the performance of artificial respiration .
Tieffenbach ( Centralblatt fiir die medicinischen Wissenscliaften , .
1869 , p. 181 ) , in referring to the production of glycosuria in curarized rabbits subjected to artificial respiration , says that he also once obtained the same result without the previous poisoning .
This seems to have been a mere passing observation , while my own experiments were elicited by a train of reasoning and without the knowledge of any previously published result existing .
I am not disconcerted , however , to find that I have been thus anticipated ; for it is only with the question of fact that I feel concerned ; and it is a satisfaction to learn that the result I have obtained is confirmed by the independent observation of another .
In the course of experimenting upon this subject , I discovered that the inhalation of the fumes of burning puff-ball ( Lie coper don ) is rapidly productive of strongly marked glycosuria ; and from certain phenomena which I observed , I at first attributed the result to an imperfect dearterialization of the blood .
I noticed , for instance , when a dog was brought under the anaesthetic influence of puff-ball smoke that there was fulness and throbbing of the arteries , that the tongue became intensely red , and that the veins underneath were in a turgid state and filled with red instead of dark-coloured blood .
I thought I saw in these phenomena the effects of a general vaso-motor paralysis , resulting in the blood being allowed to flow through the capillaries without becoming properly de-arterialized , in the same manner as it is known to do locally after section of certain parts of the sympathetic .
1875 .
] Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
55 Through Dr. Richardson , I have since learnt that the active agent of puff-ball smoke was some time back shown , by Thornton Herepath and Snow , to consist of carbonic oxide , a gas which reddens blood in the same manner as oxygen , but which , unlike oxygen , is not easily displaced by the agency of other gases .
Now , Dr. Richardson having noticed* that the inhalation of carbonic oxide is followed by glycosuria , our respective observations coincide , and I have no reason to doubt that the circumstances are otherwise than identical ; indeed a comparison of the effects of puff-ball smoke and carbonic oxide enables me to support the conclusion that the action of the former is dependent on the presence of the latter .
There is the same kind of anaesthesia , the same red state of the blood contained in the venous system , and the same rapid occurrence of strongly marked glycosuria .
No matter whether puff-ball smoke or artificially procured carbonic oxide may be used , within ten minutes or a quarter of an hour after the production of anaesthesia , sugar may be recognizable to a notable extent in the urine ; and a little later I have upon some occasions found that my analyses have indicated the presence of as much as upwards of 30 grains to the fluid ounce .
Such is the result to which I desire to direct attention ; and I will proceed to explain in what way it appears to me to stand connected with the subject under consideration .
It is seen that a gas which produces the same physical effect on the blood as oxygen likewise determines the production of glycosuria .
The bright scarlet colour belonging to arterial blood is also the colour which is given to blood by the presence of carbonic oxide ; and , furthermore , Dr. Gramgee has shown that the spectral properties of the compound of colouring-matter and carbonic oxide are identical with those of oxidized blood .
There is this difference , however , noticeable , which seems to tell in a striking way in relation to glycosuria .
The combination of colouring-matter and oxygen ( oxy-hsemoglobin ) is so feebly maintained that a reducing action is readily exerted by the influence of carbonic acid , and hence the facility with which oxidized is converted into deoxidized blood .
In the case of carbonic oxide , however , the gas is so much more strongly held , that it is not similarly susceptible of being readily displaced by other gases .
As a result of its inhalation the blood becomes charged with it , and , by virtue of the property alluded to , retains it while traversing the systemic capillaries .
In consequence of this retention it is allowed to reach the liver , and there produce the effect which results in glycosuria .
It is to the capacity of retention that I assume may be ascribed the speedy occurrence of glycosuria which follows its inhalation ; and I think it may be surmised , seeing that oxygenated blood acts in a similar way upon the liver , that if it were not for the easy manner in which oxygen is withdrawn from the blood in its passage through the systemic capillaries , the result of its inhalation , even under the form of * Medical Times and Gazette , March 8th , 1862 .
56 Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
{ Nov. 25,1 atmospheric air , would be the same , as far as the urine is concerned , as that of carbonic oxide .
On account of the facility with which the abstraction of oxygen is effected , we obtain our escape from being glyco-suric under the process of oxygen inhalation naturally carried on .
The .
capacity of abstraction , however , is not unlimited , and , as has been shown in this communication , glycosuria may be induced by artificially surcharging the blood with inhaled oxygen .
As yet I have only assumed , without adducing any experimental evidence upon the point , that the production of glycosuria by the inhalation of carbonic oxide is due to the direct action of the blood impregnated with the gas upon the liver .
It might be urged that the effect is attributable to hyperaemia of the liver , the hyperaemia being brought about either through the state of the arteries of the organ , or that of the chylo-poietic vessels in general leading to increased pressure in the portal system .
An appeal to experiment has afforded a decided answer to these suggestions .
In the first place I ligatured the hepatic artery of an animal while under the effects of chloroform , and afterwards subjected it to the influence of puff-ball smoke .
Before exposure to the inhalation of the puff-ball smoke , the urine was ascertained to be free from sugar .
Twenty minutes after the cessation of the inhalation the urine contained 115 grains of sugar to the fluid ounce .
The hepatic artery being tied , direct arterial hyperaemia of the liver was out of the question as a cause of the glycosuria .
In the next place I directed my attention to the question of the possi-bility of the effect being due to hyperaemia of the liver occurring as a result of an increased activity of the circulation through the chylo-poietic viscera , and thence an increased flow of blood through the portal vein .
It was difficult certainly to realize that any thing like the hyperaemic state producible through the arterial system could be induced through the medium of the portal vein , looking at the position of the vessel with its delicate walled radicles and a capillary circulation behind .
But how- 5 ever this might be , I determined to submit the point to experimental inquiry .
If hyperaemia of the liver from an increased afflux of portal blood con- ' stituted the cause of the glycosuria , it ought to be averted on cutting off a considerable portion of the flow through the chylo-poietic viscera .
In one experiment to accomplish this I tied the superior mesenteric artery of a dog , while the animal was under the influence of chloroform , \lt ; and half an hour afterwards caused it to inhale a mixture of carbonic i oxide and air , in the proportion of one part of the former to nineteen of the latter .
Notwithstanding this extent of dilution it was found necessary to allow the animal to breathe pure air from time to time , to prevent a fatal result occurring .
The inhalation was carried on in the manner stated for half an hour .
Some urine was collected at the commencement , j 1875 .
] Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
57 and found to give no reaction with the copper test , while that collected at its termination was freely charged with sugar .
Urine was again collected half an hour later , and sufficient having been obtained for a quantitative analysis , sugar was found to be present to the extent of 20 grains to the fluid ounce .
In another experiment , conducted in a similar manner , I tied the coeliac axis and obtained a similar result .
The urine collected a quarter of an hour after the process of inhalation was highly charged with sugar .
In each of the above experiments the perfect deligation of the arteries was verified by dissection after death ; and with the amount of blood allowed to reach the portal vein so diminished , the liver must have received very much less than its ordinary supply .
I consider the conclusion to be warranted that it is by virtue of its presence in the blood ( and probably through the combination which possesses the same physical properties as oxy-haemoglobin ) that carbonic oxide determines the escape of sugar from the liver and thence the production of glycosuria .
The fundamental point of physiological interest brought forward in this communication is that the passage of oxygenated , blood through the liver excites the transformation of its amyloid substance into sugar .
Although I abstain at present from committing myself to any settled conclusion regarding the precise modus operandi , yet the evidence before me leads me to think that the effect is due to the action of the oxidized blood as a ferment , and not to the direct influence of oxygen ; and under this view the inhalation of carbonic oxide may lead to the result observed , by the compound with haemoglobin , which possesses corresponding physical properties to oxy-haemoglobin , acting in a similar way .
I am inclined also to think that the production of sugar is only one part of the event occurring .
It is a noteworthy fact that in the puff-ball and carbonic oxide experiments there was a strikingly rapid disappearance of amyloid substance from the liver .
Under ordinary circumstances the decoction of the liver is milky , from the presence of amyloid substance , but under the conditions referred to the decoction was found nearly or quite clear .
Even in the space of about an hour I have in some instances observed the decoction yielded to possess no sign of milkiness ; and there was other evidence to show that the amyloid substance had disappeared .
On giving attention to the position where amyloid substance is discoverable , it appears to be especially where a limited amount of oxygen exists that it is present .
There is no organ in the body supplied with venous blood like the liver , and in correspondence there is no structure which is charged to a similar extent with amyloid substance .
During the first portion of intra-uterine life the liver is free from amyloid substance , while the liquor amnii and the fluid of the allantois contain sugar .
May this not arise from the oxygenated blood of the umbilical vein causing the amyloid substance , which might otherwise accumulate in the liver , 58 Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Production of Glycosuria .
[ Nov. 25 to pass into sugar , and thence determine a saccharine condition of these liquids ?
At a later period of foetal life the liver becomes charged with amyloid substance , and sugar is no longer discoverable in the liquids named .
But now the chylo-poietic viscera have attained considerable development , and would send venous blood through the portal vein to the liver .
It is a specially notable fact , in relation to this point , that the liver and chylo-poietic viscera do not correspond in their state of development at different periods of foetal life .
If they did there would be no alteration in the relative supply of portal and umbilical blood to the former as time advanced .
The liver , on the contrary , at an early stage is vastly out of proportion in size to even every other part of the organism .
In the human foetus , at the third or fourth week of embryonic life , it is said to constitute one half of the weight of the whole body* .
At the commencement , then , the chief supply of blood to the liver must be from the umbilical vein .
Subsequently , as the developmental relation becomes altered and the chylo-poietic viscera attain significant dimensions , the supply of venous blood must correspondingly increase .
This may be accepted as a necessary deduction without reference to the precise anatomical disposal of the umbilical vein in relation to the liver .
Under the view propounded , what before stood as an incomprehensible phenomenon becomes susceptible of rational explanation .
While the presence of amyloid substance is confined , or almost entirely confined , in the adult to the liver , it is known to have a somewhat wide extent of distribution amongst foetal structures .
Now in harmony with this the tissues of the foetus , unlike those of the adult , are supplied with a mixture of venous and arterial blood .
The lungs and muscles are found to represent two structures besides the liver in which amyloid substance has been encountered in the adult ; but examination shows that when it happens to be here physiologically recognizable it is only so to a comparatively inconsiderable extent , and this under circumstances involving a reduced supply of arterial blood .
For instance , it is especially in muscles that have been kept in a state of rest , and in those of the hybemating animal during hybernation , that the substance has been noticed to be discoverable , and it has been observed to disappear under a state of activity .
The lung-tissue during hybernation has been found to yield it , but fails to do so when activity is resumed .
It is an interesting and apparently a significant fact that amyloid substance is present to a notable extent in the solidified lung of pneumonia .
I have myself obtained it in considerable quantity from lung-tissue in this state .
Now it happens that we have here a condition , as regards the relation to blood-supply , which closely resembles that of the liver , for the tissue being solidified and impervious to air will not admit of oxygenation going on , and the blood which reaches it through the pulmonary artery , like the main supply to the liver , is of a venous character .
* Quain 's ' Anatomy , ' 7th ed. p. 879 .
1875 .
] On the Structure and Relations of certain .
59 Dr. Michael Foster has shown that amyloid substance exists largely in the bodies of certain Entozoa , as , for instance , the round worm and the tapeworm .
Again we have a condition which harmonizes with the other conditions under which its accumulation is observed to take place ; for situated as these animals are in the intestinal canal , their position is one which is peculiarly restrictive of a supply of oxygen .
My own observations have revealed its extensive existence in the mantle of the mussel , and Bernard has recognized it in the larvae of flies .
These instances , if not specially illustrative of the point under consideration , nevertheless appear to me to stand in conformity with the previous evidence .
Looking at all the considerations which have been here brought forward , I think we may generalize and say that the amyloid substance is a body which tends to accumulate in certain animal structures under the existence of a limited supply of oxygen , and that it is in consequence of the liver exceptionally receiving the supply of venous blood it does , that the special condition belonging to it is attributable .
I have shown that the undue transmission of oxygenated blood to the organ at once induces an altered state , which is rendered evident by the production of glycosuria .
I consider that another link has been added to the chain of evidence against the glycogenic theory , which I have never wavered in regarding as untenable since the communication of my former researches to the Royal Society .
III .
" On the Structure and Relations of the Alcyonarian ccerulea , with some Account of the Anatomy of a Species of Sarcophyton ; Notes on the Structure of Species of the Genera Millepora , Pocillopora , and Stylaster ; and Remarks on the Affinities of certain Palaeozoic Corals/ ' By H. N. Moseley , M.A. ( Oxon .
) , Naturalist to the ' Challenger ' Expedition .
Communicated by Professor Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff of H.M.S. ' Challenger .
' Received September 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction.\#151 ; The author having undertaken the examination of the Deep-sea Corals dredged during the voyage of H.M.S. Challenger , ' was led to the study of the structure of corals generally , and especially to the examination of the Milleporidae , which seemed of peculiar interest , since they had been determined by Professor Agassiz to be Hydroids , and had been regarded by him as living representatives of the Palaeozoic Rugosa .
Millepora alcicomis was obtained and examined at Bermuda , and another species of Millepora at Zamboangan , Mindanas , Philippine Islands .
The examination of these Millepores was found to be beset with great diffi-

