A Memoir on the Geogriap7hy of the North-eastern part of Asia , and on the Question whether Asia and America are contiguous , or are separated by the Sea .
By Captain James Burney , F.R.S. Read December 11 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , .
9 .
] The opinion that the continents of Asia and America are separated by the sea , seems first to have been inferred in 1736 by Professor Muller , and to have been founded upon some papers found at that time in Siberia , relating to the celebrated voyage of Deschneer , who in 1648 first discovered the sea east of Kamtschatka .
The question , however , seems to have been undecided at the period of Behring 's voyage , as we learn from his instructions given by Peter the Great ; and the Asiatic side only of Behring 's Strait was discovered by that navigator : for the coast of Asia being there found to take a western direction , it had the effect of giving an impression of the total separation of Asia and America .
After noticing several other attempts to determine the north-eastern limits of Asia previous to the arrival of Captain Cook in the sea of Kamtschatka , Captain .
Burney proceeds to the observations of that navigator .
The first extraordinary circumstance was a sudden disappearance of the tides in Behring 's Strait .
Thence Captain Cook coasted the land of America to the north and north-east till stopped , in 70ยง 40 ' north latitude , by a floating body of ice .
He then stood westward from the coast of Asia , keeping in as high a latitude as the ice would permit .
The deepest soundings in this sea did not exceed 30 fathoms in latitude 680 45 ' , mid-way between the coasts of Asia and America .
The soundings decreased to the northward , and did not increase in running from the coast of America westward , as is usual in running from land .
These , and other peculiarities , gave so much the character of a mediterranean sea , that some on board , says the author , were of opinion that we were enclosed by land to the north , and that Asia and America were there united .
Captain Burney next notices the expedition of Commodore Billings ; in which , however , no new facts respecting the main question were discovered .
In this uncertainty respecting the north-east termination of Asia , the author gives one observation of importance , -which is , that the Tschuktzki people do not appear to know the extent of their country north , nor to give any satisfactory information respecting it , though some of them have travelled from the continent to islands in the Icy Sea .
The most probable chance of arriving at any certainty upon the subject of the north-eastern boundary of Asia , is that , says the author , which was recommended by the Russian Admiralty to Commodore Billings , i. e. to trace the coast in sledges where the sea is frozen .
The principal argument against the probability of Asia and America being joined , is , that the northern land in the Icy Sea has repeatedly been supposed and reported to be an extension of .
the American continent , and not to join the Tschuktzki country .
In Captain Krusenstern 's Memoir on the Lands of the Icy Sea , it is related that 250 versts of the coast of a northern land was very lately explored , which has been called New Siberia ; and at the easternmost part of this land the coast took a direction to the northwest , which appeared to render it not probable that it joined the Tschuktzki land : but nevertheless , the coast , in Captain Burney 's opinion , may turn to the east ; and the Russian discoverer Hederstroom considers that this is the case , and that New Siberia is a prolongation of America .
The Tschuktzki people , says the author , would not explore further north than afforded a prospect of reward for their pains , which has led them to some of the islands of the Icy Sea , though there is no evidence of their having yet reached New Siberia .
On the whole , Captain Burney is of opinion that Asia and America are part of one and the same continent .

