]\gt ; Colour-Blindness and Theory of Colour Vision .
449 any of the ordinary gases , as is evidenced by the readiness with which the spectrum of carbon monoxide shows up in vacuum tubes , often to the total exclusion of the spectrum of other ases which are known to be present .
If the view that the positive ions from heated substances are molecules of carbon monoxide is correct , it would mean that a substance , which of ; itself evolved this gas when heated would probably have a greater positive leak than one which did not do so .
A large emission of positive ions would also be expected to be obtained from a substance which had a strong affinity for negative electricity , and would thus more readily allow the of gas to escape with a positive charge .
This is probably a property of phosphorus at temperatures , for Sir J. J. Thomson has shown that the phosphates as a class emit amounts of positive icity when heated .
The author wishes to take this opportunity of thanking Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his interest in these experiments , which wele carried out in the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge .
Colour-Blindness and the of Colour Vision .
Part II.\mdash ; Incomplete Red or Green Blindness .
By Sir W. DE W. ABNEY , K.C.B. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received October 5 , \mdash ; Read December 8 , 1910 .
) In Part I of this subject*I treated of complete colour-blindness in its relation to the trichromatic theory of colour vision .
In this communication , which is a continuation of that published , I deal with incomplete colourblindness and its relation to the same theory .
The number of cases of incomplete red or green blindness is than those where the colourblindness is complete .
In cases of incomplete colour-blindness so far as they have come under my examination the sensation curves of the red and green sensations are similar ( in a mathematical sense ) to those existing in normal vision , that is to say , if in the normal ( say ) red curve an ordinate of one colour indicates a perception of " " \ldquo ; red , and for the incomplete redblind a perception of " " \ldquo ; red , then in any other position in the spectrum the proportion of normal to incomplete red-blindness is as .
This 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , 1910 , vol. 83 .
450 Sir W. de W. Abney .
-Blindness the [ Oct. fact leads to a far-reaching conclusion .
It tells us that the place of maximum luminosity travels in the case of red-blindness from Standard Scale No. to S.S.N. 46 .
A reference to Table I will show why such travelling of maximum luminosity takes place .
To take two examples , a table ( Table II ) and diagram of luminosity curves for eyes which only perceive one-third of the red sensation and one-third of the green sensation is given .
In the first the maximum is closely at S.S.N. 48 5720 , and in the second at S.S.N. 51 5922 .
The maximum at S.S.N. 49 is when the red sensation is about two-thirds of the normal , and at S.S.N. ( 47 ) 5658 when it is about one-tenth of the normal , at S.S.N. 46 when there is no red sensation .
In the green-blind when there is no green sensation the maximum is closely at S.S.N. 52 By observing the position of maximum luminosity we can form an approximate diagnosis of the amount of the defect and as to the sensation in which the defect exists .
Suppose that we have a luminosity curve taken by ( say ) an incompletely In this communication as in the last the white light which forms the spectrum is from the crater of the positive pole of the arc light .
If any other source of light be used the maxima will not be in the same positions as those given .
1910 .
] Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
451 red-blind eye the question comes whether we can find the exact amount of deficiency that exists or , at all events , approximate to exactness .
If by any means we can make the ordinates of the curve obtained of proper height when compared with those of the normal vision curve ( which Table the Composition of the different Rays of the Spectrum in Terms of Luminosity of the Three Sensations .
A is ; Red lithium , ; Blue lithium , , ll2 ; Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , Table II.\mdash ; Showing incomplete Red and Green Blindness .
we usually make 100 ) we can then compare all the ordinates of the former with those of the latter , both being on the same scale .
If the trichromatic theory holds good then the difference between the ordinates of the two curves ' should , at every place ( except maybe in blue ) , in the case of incomplete redblindness , give a curve which is mathematically similar to the normal red sensation curve .
The ordinates of this curve compared with the ordinates of the normal red sensation curve will give the amount of red sensation deficient in the incomplete red-blind eye .
When the incomplete blindness is in the green sensation the same line of argument applies .
1910 .
] .
Theory of I give two cases , one of incomplete red- and the other of blindness .
The measures were taken several years , nd before I ] ) worked out the three sensation curves of my own ( normal ) eye .
Without knowing whether a comparison of the luminosity of the spectral coloul .
S to my own eye with the same white which they used for comparison purposes would be of any value , in some cases I made observations at the same time and recorded the readings .
These I shall refer to later .
I must here point out that owing to differences in the ) sorption by the macula lutea in different eyes the blue sensation curve may not always be capable of the same treatment as the green or red sensation curves .
But from the red end of the spectrum to about S.S.N. 40 this variation will not appreciably the results .
In Table III we have the case of the incompletely red-blind eye .
The ordinates of luminosity as measured are iven in Column III .
We have to obtain a factor by which to multiply the numbers in this column to make it compare with the luminosity of normal vision given in Table I. Table III.\mdash ; Showing W. Curves .
Let us take S.S.N. 's 58 and 46 in the first instance .
The normal luminosities of these S.S.N. 's are 21 and 87 ( see Table 1 ) , and for W. and 92.5 .
See " " Colour Photometry Part 3 , ' Phil. Trans 1800 .
VOL. LXXXIV.\mdash ; A. 2 I 454 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , From these we can form two equations , putting for the reduction of W. 's total luminosity curve and for the reduction of his red sensation curve , the right-hand members of the equations being formed from the red sensations of these two scale numbers given in Table I. The left-hand member of the equations is the diffel.ence between the ordinates of the normal and redblind curves at these scale numbers , which should be equal to the right-hand member .
21\mdash ; From these we find and .
Making the factor by which the normal red sensation has to be multiplied in order to give the amount of this sensation that is present in W. 's colour sense , and from these equations .
That is when his curve is multiplied by , the difference between the ordinates of his curve and those of the normal give a curve which is five-sixths of the normal B.S. curve .
Taking two other positions , viz. , S.S.N. and 44 , we obtain the following equations:\mdash ; S.S.N. 50 S.S.N. 44 From this we obtain .
Taking the mean of , we get and ; that is , W. has only or closely This number has been used in the table to compare the red sensation curve of the table with that of the incomplete blind .
Column I is the S.S.N. , II the wave-length , III the luminosity of the colour-blind , the Column from the Table I ; is ( Column -Column V ) , and Column .
reduced from Table I. It will be seen that after the have been deducted from the reduced luminosity , we have a residue which gives ( within limits of error of observation ) the same numbers as those given by .
In this case , then , the incomplete blin luminosity curve indicates the truth of the trichromatic theory , and also of the sensation curves of Table I obtained by the author .
The nearer to complete colour-blindness , the greater the necessity for accuracy in the determination of the luminosity curves .
In the next table is given a determination of a case of incomplete greenblindness , N. 1910 .
] Theory oj Colour Vision .
455 Table 's Curves .
Taking S.S.N. and 46 , we form the equations as before ; but from Table I we use the green sensation luminosity\mdash ; S.S.N. 52 S.S.N. 46 S7From these we find and Other pairs of equations can be formed by , , S.S.N. 's 5 and 38:\mdash ; S.S.N. 52 S.S.N. 38 From which we and We may take as approximately , which tells us the green sensation felt is only about one-tenth of the normal .
[ The green sensation is shown in the table as of the normal .
] S 456 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , This method can be used in what at first sight appear to be complicated cases , but it was not possible to use it before the sensation curves of normal vision had been worked out , as unless the composition of the colours in terms of sensation luminosity is known , must also remain unknown .
A case which puzzled those who considered it , is shown in the .
Soc. Proc May 14 , 1891 , vol. 49 .
The figure is not well drawn , but the numbers given in the table of luminosities are correct .
* The readings near the maximum were a little erratic , probably owing to the fact that at that part green was distinguished , the rest of the spectrum being grey or brownish-grey .
Using numbers on each side of the maximum to form our equations , the following are found to give the factors of reduction of the curve to compare it with the normal curve whose maximum is 100 .
Taking S.S.N. and 40 , we form the first pair of equations from the minosities in Table I and that of N. W. luminosities .
As before , the right hand of the equations are formed from the R.S. numbers in Table I. This gives Another pair of equations can be formed from S.S.N. 's 54 and 44\mdash ; which give From S.S.N. 's 52 and 42 we get which make From S.S.N. and 46 we get which make From S.S.N. 's 60 and 38 we get which make The mean of the different values of And that of the different values of is For the sake of simplicity , we may take the values as , that is , ( the red sensation ) is of the normal , .
In Table III these values are employed .
It also , in Column , gives the theoretical curve derived from Table I containing the colour equations .
* At S.S.N. 42 , 82 was a misprint for 72 .
1910 .
] Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
Columns and ether , we see that at the position of maximum luminosity the theoretical values differ fionl those obtained from the , the mean of taken .
Had the evidently low been omitted when calculating the mean , the two would tallied well .
A further examination of these two columns also the violet end of the spectrum the luminosity values by N. W. are much than the normal curve ives .
The luminosity of the blue sensation is very small compnred with the luminosities of the red and green , and is ) as far ( say ) as S.S.N. 30 , but from S.S.N. 25 to the violet end the luminosity of the blue sensation plays a and part in the total luminosity of each number .
We have already found the factor of the red seusation part of the normal violet ) .
If then from the sity values obtained by N. W. , we subtract .
reduced red sensation , and also hole of .
green sensation , the residuc will be dne to the blue scnsation , which can be compared with that in normal vision .
Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness the [ Oct. 5 , Taking her readings from S.S.N. 25 to , we obtain the following result:\mdash ; If we lay down the luminosities shown in a curve , and draw a freehand curve between the points , we get as ordinates , and the resulting ordinates of N. W. 's blue sensations are six times larger than those of the normal curve .
It appears likely that the blue sensation is the same as the normal , and that the green sensation is reduced to one-sixth of the normal and the red to one-twenty-fourth .
These facts give a very good clue to the naming of the colours of the spectrum as iven in the paper referred to .
One more example of the application of the formula to complete redblindness may be given .
At p. 466 , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , where the first part of this subject is treated of , we have the luminosity curve of X taken direct in Column IX of the table .
We can apply the formula as in the other cases .
Taking S.S.N. and 40 , 50 gives Here and .
That is , as , the colour-blindness to red is complete .
Taking S.S.N. 's 52 and 38 , we get and 38 Here again and , and from this pair the same deduction is made , We can now discuss the plan of calculating directly the amount of colour sensation which exists in an incompletely colour-blind eye .
The method is adapted also for the completely colour-blind .
Suppose a person with normal vision and the person whose colour-vision is defective each make luminosity measures of the same spectrum colours , the comparison white light in each case being the same .
( The luminosity , it must be remembered , is measured by sectors placed in the path of the white beam .
) Now the luminosity of the white light to the colour-blind is less than to normal eyed by exactly the amount due to the defect in one sensation .
Hence , when the colour-blind 1910 .
] Theory of Colour Vision .
makes an observation , he is the comparison with a lower of white than does the observer with normal vision .
If the white light were to both equally luminous their would give two curves of such a character that the difference in ordinates would be a direct measure of the defect as in the previous method .
As the white is less luminous to the colour-blind , we have to find to what extent the ordinates of his curve have to be altered .
Let be the factol iving the amount of his deficiency in one sensation , and let and be the component luminosities of the red , green , and blue sensations of the ray which is to be measured .
Reverting to Table I the total luminosities of these three sensations in the whole spectrum of white light to normal vision are closely as 580 , , and 3 .
It will be seen that the blue luminosity has but small effect , and the red and the green are nearly as 7 to 3 , when the luminosity for the normal eye is 10 .
In those rays of the spectrum which contain the defective sensation the luminosity of this sensation must be multiplied by a factor the reading for the normal to be , and for the colour-blind , then we can make an equation which will contain To the red-blind remains tmaltered , is negligible , so that we get the equation in the form , ( i ) from which can be determined .
When there is no green sensation in the colour , as when the slit is at any scale number below 58 , the equation becomes .
( ii ) For a green-blind remains unaffected , and the equation ( i ) becomes , ( iii ) and equation ( ii ) becomes .
( iv ) Supposing , which is the case when the colour-blindness to red or green is complete , ( i ) ecomes or and ( iii ) becomes or [ is , of course , the luminosity from the normal curve Table I. ] ( iv ) becomes or 460 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , which shows that the readings in the red are larger for the green-blind than for normal vision .
The following observations made by a well-known man of science are given in Table and show the application of both methods of procedure .
Table \mdash ; Showing Z. Curves .
We will ascertain the defect of red sensation by the first method , and then it by the second method .
From the table we take the scale numbers 52 and 46:\mdash ; From this S.S.N. 's 50 and 66 give This makes From S.S.N. and 40 From this Taking the mean of these factors , 1910 .
] Theory of } Here we have the defect in the red sensation is ; therefore , he must have only .
of normal vision .
Using formula ( i ) , at S.S.N. the luminosity of the normal vision is 8 , and of the colour defective 1 ) .
At another place in the red the were 25 and 16 .
At the nornud and colour-blind were 50 and 34 .
In this case and ? .
The equation then becomes This makes Again , at the two ) were and 53 .
The equabion is then This gives Finally , at the are and 6 The eqnation is This makes The mean of the re , sults gives as the factor by to reduce the sensation of this incompletely red-blind .
The factor derived from the first method was .
This example that both nlethods the same result .
I have worked out sensation factors from nunlerous other luminosity curves as made Sronl the observations of pletely colour-blind persons , So far , I have not met with any caso .
to which these methods , founded on the normal colonl sensations , as shown in Table I , will not ] .
Any small deviations which are shown , are readily accounted for by erl.ors in the somewhat difficult of luminosity .
Whatever may be the nature of the visual receivin , whether it be .
chetnical , there seems to be no reason why similarity in the sensation curves of the blind , compared with of the normal curves , should not ays be maintained .
It is probable that , taking the and of the different points in the spectrum curves , the normal visual sensation curves can be calculated .
462 Sir W. de W. Abney .
Colour-Blindness and the [ Oct. 5 , I now give a determination of the amount of incomplete colour-blindness which existed in a recent case that came before me for examination .
In addition to ordinary tests I employ , and of which I shall have to say something in another communication , the inosities of two points in the spectrum were determined by the ] -blind ( Jn .
) and myself .
It was found by the examination that he was red-blind to a certain extent , and afterwards the amount was determined by the two sets of observations .
At S.S.N. 34 Jn. 's luminosity was 21 , that of A At S.S.N. 34 the sensation luminosities from the table were E.S. G.S. and at S.S.N. The following equations were formed to determine the defect in red sensations:\mdash ; From which , the factor of defect , was , or was the amount of his red sensation , and , the factor by which to reduce the luminosity , was Next using my determinations of the luminosity , the following equations were obtained , where is the factor for B.S. existing in Jn. 's sensation:\mdash ; The mean of the two gives as the factor and agrees with the preceding determination .
It is to be noticed that the blindness must be to the red , for if we form equations by the first method , supposing greenblindness , with the same numbers we get This makes a minus quantity , which is impossible .
Again , with the second method we should have , with S.S.N. We get larger than unity .
There is at leaSt one other method by which the amount of visual defect in a colour sensation can be determined , but this is dependent on the colours * In both cases the mean of several observations was taken .
1910 .
] Theory of which go to form white .
This and the colours perceived by the colour-blind and by normal vision I have reserved for a future communication .
There may be some investigators who are a rade of artificial light such as paraffin , candle , or the glow lamp .
They do not differ much from one another , so I have thought it be of use if I ooave the luminosity curve of the spectrum of the light emitted by paraffin ( crystal oil ) .
I have also shown the luminosities in terms of , and B.S. in Table .
It will be noticed that the maximum of R.S. is at S.S.N. 54 instead of at S.S.N. 52 , as is the case if the arc is used , and the maximum G.S. is at S.S.N. 48 instead of at S.S.N. 46 , as also is the case for the arc light .
Table\mdash ; Luminosity Curves of the Spectrum of aParaffin ( Crystal Light .
This indicates the extreme care that must be taken in securing a good luminosity curve of the spectrum of the employed for investigations before any deductions as to observations are made .
In a paper recently presented to the Royal Society on the subject of Lord Rayleigh .
Sensibihty of the [ Nov. 26 , colour-blindness there are several misapprehensions of what the trichomatic theory can or cannot explain .
One very glaring misapprehension is that this theory cannot explain the matching of a bluish green by a mixture of red and blue .
This is one of the most easy matches to make by the green-blind , for the green of the normal curves is absent to the green-blind , and the curves at this point are red and blue ( see S.S.N. 34 , Table I , which is a blue-green ) .
Hence a mixture of red and blue to the green-blind will match what is blue-green to normal vision .
There are other points on which there are misapprehensions , and they will be dealt with in another communication which I propose to offer .
On the Sensibility of the Eye to of -length in the Yellow of the By Lord RAYLEIGH , O.M. , ( Received November 26 , \mdash ; Read December 8 , 1910 .
) Dr. has introduced a method of classifying colour-vision by the number of separate parts or divisions in the spectrum within each of which the observer call perceive no colour difference .
Movabl screens are provided in plane of the spectroscopic telescope , by which the part admitted to the eye is limited and the limits measured in terms of wave-length .
Beginning at the extreme visible red , more and more of the is admitted until a of colour ( not merely of bri htness ) is just perceptible .
This gives the first division .
The second division starts from the place just determined , and is limited in the direction of shorter by the same condition .
In this way the whole spectrum is divided into a number of contiguous divisions , or patches , which Dr. Edridge-Green terms monochromatic .
It will be observed that the delimitation of these patches includes an arbitrary element depending on the point from which the start is made\mdash ; in this case the extreme red .
" " Tested with this instrument a normal individual will , as a rule , name six distinct colours ( viz. , red , orange , yellow , green , blue , violet ) , and will mark out by means of the shutters about 18 monochromatic patches .
Occasionally we come across individuals with a greater power of differenhues , to whom , as to Newton , there is a distinct colour between the 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , 1910 , vol. 82 , p. 458 , and earlier writings .

