]\gt ; Mr. F. Chambers on the Variations .
[ Dec. 7 , points , I would rather refer to an borate series of experiments by Mr. Crookes , in which this pump plays a most important , shortly to be brought before the Royal 8ociety .
NOTE.\mdash ; Since writing the above description , while king with McLeod 's it has been found necessary to introduce an airtrap similar to , fig. 1 , between the pinch-cock and the appal.atus , ns bubbles of air were frequently seen creeping up the pipe II .
The Diurnal Variations of the Wind and Barometric Pressure By .
CHAMBERS , Meteorological Reporter for the Bombay Presidency , and Acting } ) erintendent of the Colaba Bombay .
Communicated by CHARLES CHAMBERS , F.R.S. Received November 9 , 1876 .
In a paper which was lead before the Royal Society in 1873 , and which was ] ] onoured with a place in the 'Philosophical Transactions ' of that yeor * , I discussed the diurnal variations of the vind and ometrio pressure at Bombay , deduced therefrom the fact that a system of diurnal wind-currents moves synchronally with the diurnal variation of barometric pressure .
Reasons were given for believing that that system of -currents is a universal phenomenon ; and on that hypothesis I showed the diurnal variations of the barometer could be ex- ined as a result of fhose currenfs .
I have lately closely the " " Discussion of the Results furJ by the self-recording Anemometer at Bermuda which forms Appendix II .
of the ' Quarterly Weather-Pceport of the Meteoro- logical Office , London , ' July to September 1872 .
Those results support the conclusions arrived at in my former paper in such a rkable manner as to justify the readvamcement of some of them in a form will prominently exhibit their relation to the diurnal variation of the barometer .
The following ( p. 403 ) exhibits the mean diulnal tions of tlJe north and east components of the wind , in miles per hour , at , for the whole year and for the summer and winter half-years .
If , is compiled from II .
of the Appendix to the rterly Weather-Beport are , referred to .
These tions are also represented graphically by figures 1 to 9 ( p. 404 ) , the vnriations of the north and east components ' each of these periods being exhibited separately by figures 1 to 6 , and combined form by figures 7 to 9 .
Comparing ] gure 7 with figure 9 xxxiv .
of the ' TransacfioJlS ' for 1873 , we see that the figures are ilttr in form .
Both curves exhibit a ] right-handed rotation in the enty-four hours , and all the hours of the day { respectively similnrly on both ges 1 to 18 .
1876 .
] of the Wind and Barometric Pressure .
Sr. F. ChamOnss on the Variations [ Dec. 7 , 1876 .
] of the Wind and Barometric Pressure .
es , implying that the inferences drawn from the Bombay observation , which led to the construction of the former curve , are essentially true .
The evidence which the Bermuda vind resuIts aflord , taken together with that which I have dvanced , is , I think , snfficient to rant the conclusion that the existence of such a system of diurnal windcurrents should no longer be regarded a working hypothesis merely , but that it indeed irly c to be regarded as an observed fact .
Accepting this conclusion , I proceed to show , in detail than ViLS stifiable from the evidence advanced in my former paper , what kind of barometric variation may be expected to result from such a system of wind-currents .
this purpose the only resuIts that will be used are the mean diurnal variations of the north and east components of the wind for the whole year at Bermuda .
Strictly speaking , similar results for least one other station in a latitude , but otherwise similarly situated , are essential to the completeness of the explanation ; but , as suitable vations for such a station are not yet available , their place will be supplied by the simplest suppositions that can be made .
The results , however , will be seen not to depend wholly on those suppositions , but it will be evident that similar conclusions will follow without them .
Bermuda , being a small island in mid-ocean , is vourably situated for the investigation of such movements of the as form part of a general system of diurnal wind-currents affecting the whole of the earth ; for in this case the tion is not com- plicated by the great difficulty of having to eliminate those peculiarly local winds , such as the land- and sea-breezes , which are always found on the coasts extensive tracts of land , and such as the systems of diurnal wind-currents , of which we have indications in the hot winds that blow in the daytime from the interior of large continents like India , and which are to be attributed to local causes ] in character to those which produce the primary system of currents over the whole of the earth 's surface\mdash ; these secondary stems originating in outward movcments from the middle of heated in the same way the pl.imary system originates in ard mo ments from the middle of the heated hemisphere .
The ntity of air ( measured by the number of square miles of surface on which it rests ) which enters or le the meteorological ] formed by the two contiguous full-hour meridian lines , and by any two parallels of latitude and , may , with suflicient approxi- matio1l , be by the following formulae , provided that 1LUd do not differ very largely:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Mr. F. Chambers on the Variations [ Dec. 7 , where ( 2 ) and ( S ) in which is the north component of the wind variation for the hour and the of latitude , and the corresponding north component for of latitude the east component of the wind variation for the hour and the parallel of latitude , and the corresponding east component for the parallel of latitude Suppose , then , the existence of twenty-four blockades formed by the twenty-four meridian lines corresponding to the twenty-four full hours , by the equator and the parallel of north latitude , talren as on which stands .
Bearing oarefully in mind that only the dinrnal variations of the vind are being considered , the meftn diurnal tion of the north component of the wind for the whole year at Bermuda affords the means of calculating how much air flows into or out of of these bloclrades on the north , and the corresponding variation of the east component of the wind affords the means of calculating the tify of air which flows into or out of tbem on both their east and ries , .
across each the -hour lines : the stlpposition that the variation of the component of the vind is the same veen Bermuda and the equator as at Bermuda , an ssumpiion which is doubtless only approximately true , and though rough , yet sufficiently exact for our present purpose .
But we no observations to show how much air flows across the equator into or out of each of them .
To tentatively supply the place of such observations the most simple supposition that can be made is , that there is no transfer of cross the equator either into or out of any of them , or , in other words , that on the equator there is no tion of the north component of the wind .
It seems probable that this sstlmption is not strictly true , but the position of the line at which the outward cnrrents from the neighbourhood of the equator may be said to , or at which the return ard currents may be said to meet , not only has an annu tion about its mean position , but that it { ries from hour to hour , or , in other vords , that there is no single line which satisfies the assumption made for ] the hours of the day .
But , for our present purposc , the assumption that the equator does so probably not very essentially nffect the results rrived t 1876 .
] of the Wind and Barometric Pressure .
, then , that for all values of , and that all alues of , we obtain the following values of and and , by thoir addition , those of Mr. F. Chambers on Variations [ Dec. 7 , if the atmosphere participates in the movements which are observed in the lower strata , an increase or decrease of the pressure of the , ver nearly in direct proportion to the quantity of air which enters leaves any blockade , must result .
Assuming that the whole atmosphere does participate in these movements , and taking 30 inches as the mean barometric pressure for each of the blockndes , the increment of pressure for each hour of the day is obtained by the proportion : SO : ; or , , where is the arett of a block in square miles ( 2,287,336 square miles in the present ) , and is the number of square miles covered by the air which enters or leaves the blockade per hour .
Adding successively these hourly increments , we obtain the barometric variation results from the tion of the wind from which the values of were calculated .
Ihe riations corresponding to the successive values of of Table II .
are given in the following Table ( p. 409 ) , and phicaJly represented by figures 10 to 12 .
Figure 10 ( p. 404 ) the diurnal ariation of the barometer that would result from the diurnd variation of the north component of the wind only .
It is remarkably regular in form , and its turning points correspond almost exactly with those of the observed barometric varinhon in low latitudes .
The diurnal movement is greater than the nocturnal one , as with the observed variation ; but the morning maximum , in ccordance with what might be expected from the notion of a gradually decreasing osoillatory movement of the atmosphere , is perhaps not proportionally high as in the showing actual barometric lion .
It is , however , higher than the evening ximum , a fact hich could not be explained by the supposition that the movements of the of the vind are of the nature of oscillatory mot ements resulting from the disturba1lce , but which requires that some other cause should also be in ction at the same time .
This is probably to be found in the gradual cooling of the air during the night hours resulting in a gradual return towards the equator of the air which had moved during the day huurs , causing the ard oscillatory movement of the night to be smaller than the subsequent vard movement .
And this is probably also the reason why at places near the eqnator , ] } , the diurnal barometric inequa ] for the night hours have greater or smaller negative values than at places further from the equator , like Bombay .
Fig. 10 has , as might be expected , a smaJlerraJlge than the actual variation of the barometer .
is of the same general form fig. 10 , the exception that the morning miuimum occurs at hours instead of )veen three and four hours as in the latter figure .
This is an irregularity which would disappear with a longer continuation of the observations .
The 1876 .
] of the Wind and Barometric Pressure .
410 Variations of the Wind and Barometric Pressure .
of .
This implies that the greater height of the ximum of the barometer is due chiefly to an influx of air from the , coming from the sun .
hich is formed simply by the addition of the ordinates of figs. 10 andll , so closely corresponds to those derived from actual observation of the bnrometer , and its Jlge approximates so nearly to the actual dimnal rallge of the barometer in latitndes , as to leave little room to doubt that the true explanation of the features of the diurnal tion of the barometer is to be found the diurnal variation of the wind .
This explanation requires that in high latitudes a reversal of the barometric tions should be found to compensate that part of the diurnal iation of low latitudes which is due to the variation of the northcolnponent of the .
It also leads to the anticipation that that of the barometric tion is due to the of the east compoment of the ind , speaking gellerally , the same cter from to poles , having a maximum range at the equator and shing at the poles , like the variation of that of the ind on which it depends .
A reason is herein found why the ersal of the actual rometric variation should not occur until very high latitudes are reached .
But it will probably be found , when other observations of latitudes than Bermuda are discussed , that the part of the barometric tion hich is dne to the of the north componcnt only , is reversed in cter at a much lower lntitude than the total riation .
The latitude hich the tion may be expected to be will be that the reversed bnromelric variation , to the ariation of compoment of the vind , is equfil to and therefore neutralized by the direct tion d to the ation of the east oomponent .
Other causes , such as tion of vapour press and the dynamical reactions pointed out by Espy , hich the of the ellergy expended by or Upon the atmosphere expanding under the influence of gravity , btless affect the actual ed 1 ariations of the barometer to some extent ; but , since the tions of the vind are sufficienl to account for the whole of the barometric tion , the iJlference that other causes really exercise but a minor influence seems inevitable .
If could suppose the centre of gravity of atmospheric column to remain vertically undisturbed while the increasin or decreasing sion of the air on differcnt parts of the earth 's surface , used by the diurnal of temperature , was being eqnalized solely by tractions , it could be that a very small lateral ocity of air old suffice for such lization , that the ions r from the creation of ements small compaled thosc hich old result from 11 } 1876 .
] On the Leaf of Dionaea elevation and depression of the centre of gravity of each column .
Herein may lie the renson why lnteral expansive and tive currents are found to exist .
A reference made by Dr. , in the course of his Address to the Brilish tion at the recent Glasgow , to the of Gelleral JlIenabrea , appears to give eight to this colljecture .
He says\mdash ; " " His great vork on tion of the and sions in an elnstic system is of too cter to bc discussed in this address ; but the principlc it contains be bricfly iu the ving words:\mdash ; lVhen ftlly elastic system places itself in under the action of external forces , the work eloped by the interunl forces is imum December 14 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKLR , C.B. , , in Presents received laid ou the cred t Papers were read:\mdash ; I. ' On the Effects and ou bance consequent on tion of the Lcaf of Dioncea pula .
By J. ) , F. .
of in University I J. , B. .
Rcceived Part by the leaf of excitation has beeu other as , vevcr , llcccsi]r.v , in phenolnena Y hich tho ) ) of ) ) ith this mechauisn ] , to itud .
the of } goeb iu the act of .
The to this blought to our ] importallt benring on the geneJ a of hc the excitucoltlractile process in ) lants and aninlals .
smoolh grecn outer surface of leaf of } conca , , and the arc so nearly in the same plane tho lobe tho spring .
of the of in ] e. i$ ,

