On Directed Emission and Reception of Electric Waves .
413 The composition of the " heavy hydrocarbons " is somewhat uncertain .
One hundred volumes of gas require 576 volumes of air for complete combustion .
One hundred volumes of gas burnt in 900 of air give about 133 volumes of steam , 57 of C02 ) and 780 of inert gases ; assuming that there is no dissociation .
On Methods whereby the Radiation of Electric Waves may be mainly confined to Certain Directions , and whereby the Receptivity of a Receiver may be Restricted to Electric Waves Emanating from Certain Directions .
By G. Marconi , LL. D. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Dr. J. A. Fleming , F.R.S. Received March 15 , \#151 ; Read March 22 , 1906 .
) This Note relates to results observed when for the usual vertical antenna employed as radiator or absorber in wireless telegraph stations there is substituted a straight horizontal conductor placed at a comparatively small distance above the surface of the ground or water .
When an insulated horizontal wire , AB , such as is shown in sketch 1 , is connected at one end to a sphere of a spark gap , the other sphere of which EARTH FIG. !
is earthed , and sparks are caused to pass between the spheres , it will be noticed on investigating the space around such an oscillator that the radiations emitted reach a maximum in the vertical plane of the horizontal wrire , AB , and proceed principally from the end , A , which is connected to the spark gap , wThilst the radiation is nil , or reaches a minimum , in directions which are approximately 100 ' from the direction in which the maximum effect occurs .
I have also noticed that any horizontal conductor ot sufficient length 414 Dr. G. Marconi .
On Directed Emission [ Mar. 15 , placed upon or at a short distance above the surface of the ground , and connected at one end through a suitable detector to earth , will receive with maximum efficiency only when the transmitter is situated in the vertical plane of the said horizontal receiving conductor , and in such a direction that the end connected to the detector and to the ground is pointing towards the transmitting station .
If , therefore , such a horizontal conductor be swivelled about its earthed end in a horizontal plane , the bearing or direction of any transmitting station within range of the receiver can be ascertained .
I have carried out a number of tests with transmitters and receivers having radiating or receiving antennae or conductors arranged as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Transmitting conductors consisting of horizontal wires , the radiations being received at a distance by means of the usual vertical wires suitably attuned .
( 2 ) Both transmitting and receiving conductors consisting of horizontal wires .
( 3 ) Transmitting conductors consisting of one or more vertical wires with or without capacity areas at top , such as have been generally employed in wireless telegraphy , the radiations being received by means of horizontal conductors .
At long distances I almost invariably used as a detector my magnetic receiver.* At shorter distances I utilised a Duddell thermogalvanometer , f by means of which it was possible to measure the root-mean-square values of the currents induced by the oscillations in receiving wires disposed in various positions relative to the transmitting conductors .
With arrangements such as are referred to in ( 1 ) , the following tests have been carried out:\#151 ; 1 .
Transmitter.\#151 ; Horizontal wire 100 metres in length , direct excitation , spark length 2 cm .
, wave-length approximately 500 metres .
Receiver.\#151 ; A vertical wire 8 metres in length , tuned to the period of the transmitter by means of a syntonising coil , and connected to a magnetic detector and to earth in the usual manner .
Results.\#151 ; Signals quite distinct at 16 kiloms .
in the vertical plane of the horizontal transmitting wire and in the direction of its earthed end ; weak at 10 kiloms .
in the same vertical plane , but in the reverse direction ; inaudible at 6 kiloms .
at right angles to the directions above mentioned .
2 .
Transmitter.\#151 ; ( At Mullion , Cornwall ) ; consisting of horizontal conductor 150 metres in length , composed of four parallel wires about 3 mm. in * See ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' London , 1902 , vol. TO , p. 341 .
t ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1904 , vol. 8 , p. 91 .
1906 .
] and Reception of E diameter , placed 1'50 metres apart , supported at a height of 20 metres , and all connected to earth through the spark gap of an induction coil placed in a building on the ground ; spark length about 2 cm .
Receiver.\#151 ; At the Haven , Poole ( distance , 240 kiloms .
) ; consisting of vertical wire 50 metres long , connected through a syntonising coil to a magnetic detector and to earth .
Results.\#151 ; A movement of 15 ' of the plane of the transmitting conductor out of the right direction was sufficient to cause signals to become indefectible at Poole .
Polar diagram 1 ) ( fig. 2 ) gives the values of the received current in microamperes , with conditions as marked under the diagram .
The values of current in micro-amperes shown in each diagram are the mean of a considerable number of readings , the transmitted energy being kept as nearly as possible constant by means of a suitable interrupter applied to the sending induction coil .
_ .250 iransmi+tind \#151 ; * 190* ISO Curve showing observed Cument in micro _ ^ a+ear+ head end of Receiving Conductor under Receiving -Hie conditions oi Direction shown below Iransrni-f-hng ConductorHonjontel.ro'tettng from 0*fo 3\lt ; oO* I 5 metres above ground Receiving Conductor:-Vertical , -fixed height ' 18 metres I A-iW -r/ Tansm i tfing Conductor - 6o melre 5 C\#187 ; ^(.Receiving Conducrtor \#166 ; 18 metres Distance of Transmission - 26 o metres Fig. 2 .
With the arrangement mentioned at ( 2 ) i.e. , both transmitting and receiving conductors horizontal , the following results , among others , were obtained :\#151 ; 1 .
Transmitter.\#151 ; Conductor 200 metres in length , supported at a height of 15 metres above ground ; spark length about 2 cm .
Receiver.\#151 ; Similar conductor supported 1 metre above ground , connected at one end to a detector and to earth as usual .
416 Dr. G. Marconi .
On Directed Emission [ Mar. 15 , Results.\#151 ; In the direction for maximum effect ( as already explained ) readable signals at 25 kiloms .
At about 90 ' from said direction at 12 kiloms .
, nothing ; in the same direction at 5 kiloms .
, weak signals .
2 .
Transmitter.\#151 ; Consisting of four wires each 330 metres in length , separated from one another by a distance of 1*4 metres , supported at a height of 20 metres above ground and connected by means of a nearly vertical conductor to a spark producer ; spark length , 3 cm .
Receiver.\#151 ; Consisting of one wire 220 metres in length , covered with insulating material , placed on the ground and connected to the end nearest the sending station through a syntonising coil to a magnetic receiver and to earth .
Results.\#151 ; When in the vertical plane of the transmitting antennae , and in the best direction , weak but distinct signals were received at a distance of 160 kiloms .
; at 45 ' from said direction and at 150 kiloms .
distance nothing was received ; at 25 ' from the best direction , and at 160 kiloms .
distance , very weak signals were received .
The results over shorter distances are given by the readings obtained on the thermogalvanometer , and are shown in the polar diagrams E and B. Transmitting T Curve showing observed Currentm micro-amberes j at earthed end of Receiving Conductor under Receiving conditions of Direction shown below.*2 1 ?
an\#187 ; mitfin\#163 ; Conductor Horizontal , revolving -from 0#to36O* I SO metres above ground Receiving Conductor : Horizontal fixed 1 50 metres above ground . .
f transmitting Conductor .
60 metres en$ '7 ^Receiving Conductor *\#166 ; Go metres Distance of Transmission-26o metres Fig. 3 .
With arrangements such as are mentioned at ( 3 ) , \i.e .
, the transmitting conductor consisting of the usual vertical type and the receiving conductor horizontal , the following results among others merit attention :\#151 ; .
1906 .
] and Reception of Electric Waves .
deceiving Transmitting ConductorHorizontal fixed I 50 metres -from ground .
Receiving ConductorHorizontal rotating Worn 0Qto S6o\#174 ; I 50 me+res from the ground Lcn th of f'fran9rT1 , ttino Conductor .
So metres * ' \Receivmg Conductor 30 metres Distance of Transmission *EZS metres Fig. 4 .
At Clifden , Connemara , Ireland , by means of a horizontal conductor 230 metres in length , laid on the ground and connected at one end to a magnetic receiver and to earth , it is possible to receive with clearness and distinctness all the signals transmitted from the Poldhu station ( situated 500 kiloms .
distant ) provided that the free end of the said conductor points directly away from the direction of Poldhu .
No signals can be received if the horizontal wire at Clifden makes an angle of more than 35 ' with the line of direction of Poldhu .
The signals from the Admiralty station at Seilly can be received at Mullion , Cornwall ( distance about 85 kiloms .
) by means of a horizontal wire 50 metres in length , 2 metres above ground , provided said wire is placed in a radial position with respect to the sending station and with its free end pointing away from it .
But it is unreceptive if placed so as to make an angle of more than 20 ' with the line of direction of the station at Scilly .
Some tests have also been carried out for the Admiralty in the vicinity of Poldhu in conjunction with H.M.S. " Furious/ ' For this purpose eight horizontal wires 60 metres in length , supported at a height of about 2 metres , were arranged radially and made to converge in a small building situated in a field near Poldhu .
These radial wires were so arranged as to divide the circle into eight equal sectors .
By means of a suitable switch any one of the ends of these wires at the position where they converged together could be connected to earth through a magnetic receiver .
Dr. G. Marconi .
On Directed Emission [ Mar. 15 , The wireless telegraph station on H.M.S. " Furious " consisted of an ordinary vertical wire aerial about 50 metres in length , connected to a suitable spark gap .
The station on the ship transmitted at intervals , and the ship followed a course describing an arc of about 180 ' round Poldhu , keeping at distances varying up to 16 miles .
By means of the horizontal wire arrangement , the bearing of the ship from Poldhu could be determined at any time by noting on which particular wire or wires the reception of signals was strongest , and also by observing which wires were non-receptive .
It was also found possible to receive simultaneously and without mutual interference different signals sent by means of oscillations of the same wave-length , coming from the ship and from the Lizard wireless station ( 10 kiloms .
away ) whenever the ship was in such a position that its bearing from Poldhu made an angle of at least 50 ' with the bearing of the Lizard For further values and curves of received current in receivers , I refer to station .
Diagrams A , A ' , C , C ' .
A Wf , U0'L \#163 ; 70* Irvarumiftin^ 2S\lt ; * r Receiving okear-Haed end of Receiving Conduc-far under -Hie .
condi-kion* of Direc-toon shown below Transmitting Conductt\gt ; r-Vettt\amp ; al , -fiAed hei^M " 44 metres Receiving Gonduc't'br - Horizontal , rofahng from Fig. 5 .
1906 .
] and Reception of E Waves .
Transmifhng Receiving Curve showing observed Current in micro **mjoeres al-ear-Wied end of Receiving Conductor , under the conditions of Oirection shown below Transrnit'fing Conductor \#166 ; \#166 ; -Vertical , -fixed .
hetghf ' AA metres Receiving Conductor:- Honjonfal.rerfahn^ -from o* to 3"\gt ; o* on ground .
, , , .
/ 'fransmiH'ing Conductor *45mehes 't v. Receiving Conductor - SOmetres Dis+ance of Transmission - 680 metres Fig. 6 .
Transmilling Receiving Curve showing Current in micro amperes at esrthed end of Receiving Conductor under the ?
conditions of Direction shown below -Iran snuffing ConductorFtoldhu Stefron Aerial consisting of multiple vertical conductors with large capacity atfhe tbp Receiving Conductor:- Horizontal rotating from 0*fo 3eo* 150 metres above ground I Art* j ^ansn'1'^ , n\#163 ; Conductor Of y Receiving Conductor So metres Distance of Transmission 650 metres Fig. 7 VOL. LXXVII.\#151 ; A. Dr. G. Marconi .
On Directed Emission [ Mar. 15 , Tran6millto\amp ; ' Receiving \lt ; *\gt ; * i8\lt ; f '7\#171 ; * Curve showing observed Curnenhn micro-ano*\gt ; tf res at earthed end ot Receiving Conductor under the conditions of Direction shewn below Transmitting Conductor-.-Potdhu Station Aerial consisting of multiple vertical conductors with large capacity at the top Receiving Conductor --Horizontal .rotating from 0 ' to 360 " on ground , Lenoth of I *^ranarn , MnS Conductor \ ' \ Receiving Conductor - So metres Distance of Tran3mission 650 metres Fig. 8 .
Referring generally to the results mentioned in this Note , I have observed that , in order that the effects should be well marked , it is necessary that the length of the horizontal conductors should be great in proportion to their height above the ground , and that the wave-lengths employed should be considerable\#151 ; a condition which renders it difficult to carry out such experiments within the walls of a laboratory .
I have found the results to be well marked for wave-lengths of 150 metres and over , but have not been able to obtain as well-defined results when employing much shorter waves\#151 ; the effects following some law which I have not yet had time to investigate .
There also appears to be a decided advantage in so far as effects at long distances are concerned in utilising a directly excited radiating conductor\#151 ; that is , an insulated conductor in which the high frequency oscillations are started by means of a suitable spark discharging it to earth or to another body , as was usual in my early forms of Hertzian-wave wireless telegraph transmitters .
If inductive excitation is employed , that is , if the oscillations are induced in the radiating conductor from another oscillating circuit , the comparative results in various directions appear to be in the same proportions as those noticed when using the method of simple excitation , but the distances over which the effects can be detected are much smaller at parity of the power employed at the transmitter .
1906 .
] and Reception of Electric Waves .
1 have noticed that the most advantageous length of the receiving horizontal wires , in order to obtain results at maximum distances , is about one-fifth of the length of the transmitted wave , if said wires are placed at a distance above the ground ; but the receiving wires should be shorter if placed on the ground .
It would be instructive to investigate more thoroughly the difference of the results and curves obtained by means of horizontal wires placed at different heights above ground , and also the effect of varying the length of said wires .
When using horizontal receiving wires arranged as described in this Note , I have often noticed that the natural electrical perturbations of the atmosphere or stray electric waves , which are generally prevalent during the summer , appear to proceed from certain definite directions which vary from time to time .
Thus , on certain days , the receiving instruments when connected to wires which are oriented in such a way as to possess a maximum receptivity for electric waves coming from the south , will give strong indications of the presence of these natural electric waves , whilst on differently oriented wires the effects are at the same time weaker or imperceptible .
On other days these natural electric waves may apparently come from other directions .
It would be exceedingly interesting to investigate whether there exists any relation between the direction of origin of these waves and the known bearing or direction of distant terrestrial or celestial storms from whence these stray electric waves most probably originate .
A considerable number of observations would be necessary to determine whether there exists any relation between the bearing of storm centres and the direction of origin of these natural electric waves .
I propose to carry out some further investigations on the subject .
I ought to explain that the experiments described in this Note were carried out during a period of many months , and that as other results achieved over greater distances coincide generally with those here described , I have not thought it necessary to make special reference to them .
I should also mention that the tests over short distances were carried out over practically flat country , whilst those over considerable distances took place over hilly country , such as the West of England , and in some cases partly across sea and partly across land .
VOL. lxxvii.\#151 ; A.

