II .
" On the Stratifications in Electrical Discharges , as observed in Torricellian and other Vacua."-Second Communication .
By J. P. GAssIOT , Esq. , V.P.R.S. ( Abstract .
) The author of this Paper states that he procured several vacuumtubes from M. Geissler of Bonn , and alludes to the experiments made in similarly constructed tubes by M. Pliicker ( Phil. Mag. August 1858 ) , but finding it impracticable to ascertain with accuracy the nature of the residual gas , he reluctantly laid them aside .
All the vacuum-tubes in which his experiments were made , were prepared by himself or in his presence ; as each was exhausted and hermetically sealed , it was marked with a consecutive number ; upwards of 100 were thus prepared ; many were broken or otherwise destroyed , but the remainder he retains with the original numbers for future reference .
The author uses several terms , which he explains : air , hydrogen , oxygen , or nitrogen ( mercurial ) denote that the vacuum-tube contains vapour of mercury plus the air or gas remaining in the tube with which it was filled previous to the introduction of the mercury : he applies the terms outer positive or negative , and inner positive or negative , to denote the character of the discharge from the terminals ; conductive and reciprocating denote the peculiar conditions of discharges from an induction apparatus when taken in vacuum-tubes ; with a conductive discharge the needle of a galvanometer placed in the circuit will be deflected , as are also the stratifications on the approach of a magnet they having , as the author has shown in his former communication , a tendency to rotate as a whole round either pole , but in contrary directions ; in a reciprocating discharge the stratifications are confused , they are divided or separated by the magnet , and the needle of a galvanometer placed in the circuit is not deflected .
The author explains the condition which the stratified discharge assumes if any air or gas remains or is subsequently introduced into a Torricellian vacuum , and describes what he denominates a white and a blue tongue discharge , which under certain conditions always appears at the negative terminal .
In Torricellian vacua , if air or nitrogen is introduced , the stratifications , exclusive of their altered form , exhibit a red colour , while when hydrogen or oxygen is added , they retain the bluish-grey appearance : when the ends of the tubes were punctured by means of an electrical spark from a machine , the air or gas could be admitted so gradually as to occupy two or three hours in the experiment , and in this manner the preceding results were obtained .
In the best Torricellian vacua the author has been able to obtain , the stratifications always assumed a long cloud-like appearance ; by using ten cells , he on one occasion observed distinct sets of stratifications , one from each terminal , in opposite directions .
From a variety of experiments made in the laboratory of the Royal Institution in temperatures varying from 102 ?
to upwards of + 600 ?
Fahr. , he obtained the following results : When the flame of a spirit-lamp is applied to the discharge in a vacuum-tube , the stratifications , if they are narrow , will become clearer and divided , attaching themselves to the warmer portion of the tube ; if a section of the tube is heated , the stratifications in that section will be more separated , becoming closer in the cooler portion .
If heat is applied to a tube which shows the cloud-like stratifications , they will lose their clear distinctness ; the deposit from the negative wire appears to be more free , and distinct sparks or discharges are apparent , but none from the positive .
In a Torricellian vacuum from which the mercury was withdrawn , which gave clear cloud-like stratifications , no change could be observed when the temperature was lowered to + 32 ?
Fahr. ; at a temperature of --102 ?
, all trace of the stratified discharge was destroyed , and in this state the red or heated appearance of the negative wire disappeared , the discharge filling the entire vacuum with a white luminous glow ; on the temperature being raised the stratifications reappear .
When the mercury in a Torricellian vacuum is boiled , indicating a heat of upwards of + 600 ?
, the stratifications are also destroyed ; but in this case the mercury as it condenses carries the discharge , becoming a conductor .
When the mercury is frozen the stratifications disappear , and the discharge did not then illuminate the entire length of the tube ; on presenting a magnet near the tube , the cloud-like stratifications immediately reappear from the positive terminal , very distinct , but not so clearly separated as when the tube is in its normal state of temperature .
The author being desirous to obtain vacua free from all trace of the vapour of mercury , endeavoured to do so by means of fiusible metal , but traces of air were perceptible ; he also prepared apparatus for a tin vacuum : in a vacuum obtained by means of oxygen and sodium , very good stratifications were observable .
At the suggestion and with the assistance of Dr. Frankland , vacua were obtained by absorbing rarefied carbonic acid by means of caustic potassa .
This process is described , and a drawing of the apparatus is given .
In carbonic acid vacua the discharge at first appears in the form of a wavy line ; it is strongly affected on the approach of a magnet or by the hand , but does not generally present the stratified appearance ; if this be present , it is only near the positive terminal : sometimes in the course of a few minutes , but often not until after several days , stratifications are visible , which , as the carbonic acid becomes absorbed , increase ; they subsequently assume a conical form , and lastly , the clear cloud-like character of the best Torricellian vacua .
Under certain conditions the stratifications disappear , the whole length of the tube being filled with luminosity ; when in this state , if the outside of the tube is touched , pungent sparks can be perceived Ith of an inch in length , and the peculiar blue phosphorescent light , that in the ordinary state is perceptible at the negative , is perceptible at both terminals , and a galvanometer shows that the discharge is no longer conductive .
After noticing the difficulty of obtaining in carbonic acid vacuumtubes precisely the same results , the author describes one experiment in which moisture was purposely introduced ; in this tube the stratified discharge was very clear and distinct .
He states ( and describes the illustrative experiment ) that under certain conditions the stratifications entirely disappear , the vacuum insulating the discharge .
Carbonic acid vacuum-tubes were prepared , into which arsenious acid , iodine , bromine , pentachloride of antimony , bichloride and bisulphide of carbon were severally introduced , and the results obtained are described .
In Torricellian vacua the author was necessarily limited in the size of the glass vessels employed , but with carbonic acid this difficulty no longer exists ; in one vessel of 7 inches internal diameter , the stratified discharge was observed to fill the entire space ; in another , the discharges were made to pass in the middle of the vessel through a small hole in the centre of a glass diaphragm .
After many trials , the author ascertained that if the negative terminal is covered with glass tubing ( open at each end ) to about -th of an inch beyond the terminal of the wire , the stratifications are destroyed .
In this state the negative discharge appears to issue with considerable force through the orifice ; this discharge can be deflected by the magnet , and wherever it impinges , a brilliant blue phosphorescent spot is perceivable , which spot is in a short time sensibly heated .
The author remarks that in this experiment there is the appearance of a direction of a force emanating from the negative .
In some of the vacuum-tubes beyond the clear cloud-like stratifications , but nearer the negative terminal , several faint striae can be obtained : on repeating Mr. Grove 's experiment ( Phil. Mag. July 1858 ) , of allowing the discharge to pass between two metallic points attached to the coil , the author observed that these faint striae invariably disappeared .
Stratifications remarkably sensitive to induction on the approach of the hand were obtained in a glass cylinder of about 4inches diameter , in which the wires were hermetically sealed 21 inches apart .
From the absorption of carbonic acid by caustic potassa , not only were vacua obtained far more perfect than by the Torricellian method , but the process can be made so gradual as to occupy several weeks , or even months , thus enabling the experimenter to examine the phenomena of the stratified discharge under a variety of conditions , several of which the author describes ; in this manner the non-transferring condition for the electrical discharge in a vacuum has been experimentally ascertained .
The author considers that this confirms the opinion he ventured to offer in his previous paper ; for if the pulsations or vibrations of an electrical discharge are greatest in the bright bands and least in the obscure , this system of interference or of pulsations would also account for the entire absence of stratifications when the air or gas is not sufficiently rarefied , as well as when the vacuum becomes nearly perfect , while the gradual change of narrow to cloud-like stratifications is thus satisfactorily explained .
In an additional note to his Paper , the author describes some further experiments , particularly one of moving the vacuum-tube to and fro in a rapid manner , or rotating it in a plane , while the discharges are made , either singly or continuously : in the latter case the stratified discharges are separated , giving the appearance of an illuminated fan or wheel ; in the former , only a single discharge is perceptible , taking place in whatever direction the tube may at the instant be placed .
The author considers this experiment as confirmatory of his former opinion , that the stratifications are entirely due to a single disruption of the primary circuit .
The experiments , as described in the Paper , were exhibited by the author to the Society .

