Mr. C. Schorlemmer on Normal Paraffins .
1872 .
] III .
" On the Normal Paraffins .
" By C. Schorlemmer , F.R.S. Received December 20,1871 .
( Abstract .
) Some of the results of this research have already been published in two previous communications* .
It was there pointed out that the constitution assigned to the normal paraffins ( * .
\lt ; ? .
that they contain the carbon atoms linked together in a single chain ) was ascertained partly by preparing them by synthesis from other normal compounds , and partly by studying the oxidation products of the alcohols obtained from them .
The best method to prepare these alcohols is to pass a current of dry chlorine into the vapour of the boiling hydrocarbon ; a mixture of a primary and a secondary chloride is obtainedf , and these , by heating the mixture with glacial acetic acid and potassium acetate to 200 ' , are completely decomposed , the primary chloride yielding the corresponding acetate , whilst the secondary compound partly splits up into an olefine and hydrochloric acid , and partly is converted into the acetate of the secondary radical .
By treating the acetates with an alcoholic solution of caustic potash , the alcohols aie formed , which can be only approximately separated by fractional distillation , as the dif ference between their boiling-points is only about 10 .
Pentane or normal amyl hydride , C5 H12 , boiling at 3/ \#151 ; 39 , is foun in considerable quantity in Pennsylvania petroleum , he seeondai ) pent } alcohol or methyl-propyl carbinol , ( i y31 CH OH ( boiling-point 120122 ' ) , gives on oxidation methyl-propyl , q jj3 j " CO , which on further oxidation splits up into acetic acid and propionic acid .
The primary pentyl alcohol is identical with the normal amyl alcohol , which Lieben and Rossi obtained from normal butyric acid , and yields on oxidation normal valerianic acid , boiling at 184'-187 ' .
Hexane or normal hexyl hydride , C6 Hue .\#151 ; ( 1 ) Hexane from petroleum , boiling at 69'-70 ' , yields the following derivatives ( a ) Methyl-butyl carbinol , \#163 ; ^ ) CH .
OH ( boiling-point 140'-142 ' ) , the oxidation products '-'4 " e J P TT 1 of which consist of methyl-butyl ketone , q jj3 J- CO , and acetic acid and normal butyric acid , ( b ) Primary hexyl alcohol , boiling at 150 \#151 ; 155 , from which caproic acid , boiling at 201'\#151 ; 204 ' , was obtained .
( 2 ) Hexane from mannite was obtained by acting with hydrochloric acid and zinc upon the secondary hexyl iodide prepared from mannite .
It boils at 71''5 , and its specific gravity at 17 ' is 0 6630 .
The deri* Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xix .
pp. 20 \amp ; 487 .
t The same mixture is obtained by the action of chlorine in the cold , or in presence of iodine ; hut at tho same time a large quantity of higher chlorinated substitution products is formed , which is not the case by acting with chlorine on the vapour .
138 M. Janssen on the Solar Eclipse of Dec. 1871 .
[ Feb. vatives were the same as those of the hexane from petroleum ; it must , however , be stated that the boiling-points of some were a little higher than those of the petroleum hydrocarbon , and there was also a marked difference observed between the two caproic acids .
That from mannite gave a well-crystallized barium-salt , whilst that from petroleum could only be obtained in the amorphous state ; but as the two secondary alcohols yield both normal butyric acid , the chemical constitution of the two hexanes must be the same .
( 3 ) Dipropyl.\#151 ; This hydrocarbon was prepared by acting with sodium on primary propyl iodide ; boiling-point 69'\#151 ; 70 ' ; specific gravity at 17'=0,6630 .
The quantity obtained was too small for further investiga-tion ; but the mode of its formation shows that it must have the same constitution as the two other hexanes .
Heptane or normal heptyl hydride , C7 H16 ; boiling-point 97''5-9S0.\#151 ; This hydrocarbon , which is also found in petroleum , gives a secondary alcohol ( boiling-point 160'\#151 ; 162 ' ) , which is methyl-pentyl carbinol CHI C H* ( C'H'OJEI* as the acetone obtained from it yields on oxidation acetic acid and normal valerianic acid .
The primary heptyl alcohol boils at 170Q~172 ; on oxidizing it , cenanthylic acid , boiling at 219'\#151 ; 222 ' , was formed , which was found to be identical with the acid obtained from castor-oil .
Octane or normal dibutyl , C8 H18 , is easily obtained by the action of sodium on normal butyl iodide .
It boils at 123'\#151 ; 125 ' , and has at 17 ' the specific gravity 0-7032 .
As the octane from methyl-hexyl carbinol , as well as that which Zincke obtained from primary octyl alcohol , have the same boiling-points and specific gravities , it appears most probable that these three hydrocarbons are identical .
IV .
" Note on the Eclipse of the Sun ( Dec. 1871 ) as observed at Sholoor .
" By M. Janssen .
Communicated by the President .
Received January 15,1872 .
Monsieur le President , \#151 ; J'aurai l'honneur d'adresser a la Society Royale de Londres un memoir detaille de mes observations de l'eclipse , mais je profit du depart de ce courrier pour vous informer des principaux resultats obtenus .
Sans entrer dans un discussion qui fera party de ma relation , je dirai d'abord que la magnifique couronne observee a Sholoor s'est montree sous un aspect tel , qu'il me paraissait impossible d'admettre ici un cause de l'ordre de phenomenes , ou de diffraction , ou de reflexion sir le globe lunaire , ou encore de simple illumination de l'atmosphere terrestre .
Mais les raisons qui militent en faveur d'une cause objective et circuni " solaire , prennent un force invincible quand on interroge les elements lumi-neux du phenomene .

