Application of Harmonic Analysis to Tidal Theory .
209 I do not think it worth while to enter into further detail regarding the experiments in question .
The following summary gives the densities of the various gases relatively to air , all obtained by the same apparatus.* The last figure is of little significance .
Air free from H20 and C02 ... ... ... ... .
1 '00000 Oxygen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1*10535 Nitrogen and argon ( atmospheric ) ... .
0*97209 Nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*96737 Argon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1*37752 Carbonic oxide ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*96716 Carbonic anhydride ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1'52909 Nitrons oxide ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1*52951 The value obtained for hydrogen upon the same scale was 0*06960 ; but the researches of M. Leduc and of Professor Morley appear to show that this number is a little too high , " On the Application of Harmonic Analysis to the Dynamical Theory of the Tides .
Part II .
On the general Integration of Laplace 's Dynamical Equations .
" By S. S. Hough , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , and Isaac Newton Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. Received October 27 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The former part of this paper deals with solutions of Laplace 's differential equations for the tides symmetrical with respect to the axis of rotation .
In the present part the restriction of symmetry is no longer imposed , and a general solution is sought , the law of depth of the ocean , however , being limited to the case which will admit of both the interior and exterior surfaces being regarded as spheroids of revolution .
It is found that , subject to this limitation , if the solution sought represent a simple harmonic motion of any period whatsoever , and the height of the surface-waves be expressible as an infinite series of tesseral harmonics of the same rank but different orders , a linear relation connecting three successive coefficients of the series can be deduced similar to that obtained in Part I.f Prom this relation a period-equation for the free vibrations is deduced , and a method of determining approximate values of the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' voi .
53 , p. 148 , 1893 ; vol. 55 , p. 340 , 1894 ; * Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 186 , p. 189 , 1895 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 59 , p. 201 , 1896 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 236 .
210 Mr. J. R. Ashworth .
Methods of making Magnets higher roots is given .
The earlier roots are examined numerically , and tabulated for four different depths of the ocean for the types involving tesseral harmonics of rank 1 and 2 , these types presenting special interest in connection with the diurnal and semi-diurnal forced tides respectively .
The types of free oscillation are found to be of two classes , distinguishable by their limiting forms when the rotation-period is indefinitely prolonged .
In the former class the motion remains oscillatory when the period of rotation becomes infinitely long , while in the latter the " speed " of the oscillation always bears a finite ratio to the angular velocity of rotation , so that the oscillation will be replaced by a steady motion when the angular velocity of rotation is reduced to zero .
In dealing with the forced oscillations , the theorem of Laplace that in an ocean of uniform depth there will be no diurnal rise and fall at the surface is obtained and generalised as follows :\#151 ; In an ocean of uniform depth the tides due to a disturbing potential of degree s + l and rank s will involve no rise and fall at the surface if the period of the disturbing force be ^(s-f l ) sidereal days .
A theorem given by Professor Darwin with reference to the expression of the semi-diurnal tides in finite terms , as also Laplace 's solution of the problem of the diurnal tides in an ocean of variable depth , is found to admit of similar generalisation .
The general problem of the forced tides due to any disturbing force derivable from a potential function in the cases where infinite series are required for the solution is treated analytically , and is further illustrated by numerical examples typical of the leading tidal constituents which occur on the earth , the results where possible being compared with those obtained by other methods .
" On Methods of making Magnets independent of Changes of Temperature ; and some Experiments upon Abnormal or Negative Temperature Coefficients in Magnets .
" By J. Reginald Ashworth , B.Sc. Communicated by Arthur Schuster , F.R.S. Received October 29 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1897 .
The present investigation , which has been carried out in the Physical Laboratory of the Owens College , Manchester , was undertaken at Professor Schuster 's suggestion with the object of ascertaining what kinds of iron and steel are least liable to a change of magnetic intensity under moderate fluctuations of temperature .
Specimens of steels containing severally tungsten , manganese , cobalt , and nickel , also cast irons , of different blends of pig irons , and

