Part of a Letter from Dr. Scipio des-Moulins , to Dr. Hans Sloane , R. S. Secr. concerning a Mineral Water at Canterbury .
A Bout twelve Years ago a Mineral Water was accidentally detected in this City .
In digging the Ground , they first met with a fat black Mold extending it self three Foot deep , and gradually changing into another sort of Earth , very fat and like Butter .
This second Lay was two Foot thick ; the Colour of it Yellow , something mixed ; it 's Odour strong and Mineral ; and a piece of it , being for some time exposed to the Sun , smelled much like burning Sulphur .
After this they found a Quicksand of a darker Colour than the first Earth , mixed with several little Stones , and the Smell still stronger than before .
Two Foot further , under the Quicksand , a hard Rock appeared , out of which Water gushed with some Violence .
They dug two Wells at about 7 Feet distance from each other ; one about eight or nine Feet deep from its Surface , and twelve from the Surface of the Ground about it , and reaches the Rock : T'other is not so deep by two Foot , and only touches the Sand .
This last is something stronger of the Sulphur , but the other is stronger of the Mineral Spirit and ferruginous parts .
Two Drams of the second Lay of Earth , found in digging , being put into four Ounces of Spirit of Vinegar , there presently arose a considerable Ebullition ; and soon after the Spirit was ting 'd with a yellow brownish Colour , which suffered no alteration with the Infusion of Logwood , nor with Galls , but with Oil of Tart .
p. deliqturn 'd greenish , and with the Infusion of Lig .
neph .
of a pale red .
The Water taken up at the Spring is extraordinary limpid , but grows something whitish in a quarter of an Hour , and in half an Hour the Spirit is lost and the Mineral hangs first on the sides of the Glass , and then falls gradually to the Bottom .
It wo n't keep quite so well as the Spaw or Tunbridge Water .
Its Taste is masculine and austere ; the Smell ferruginous and strong , something upon the Sulphur : People say it smells like Gunpowder .
It will make the Root of the Tongue of the Drinkers look blackish .
Linen washed in it turns yellow .
It will not lather with Soap .
The Glasses the Water is dipped with grow yellow , which no scowering can take off , and are apt to fly .
In frosty and cold Weather , it is so warm as to melt Ice and Snow ; in other Seasons it 's cold , though not so cold as some Spring Waters are .
The weight of this Water varies much according to to the Seasons and Weather .
In May 1704 , it weighed three Grains lighter than Common Water in the quantity of a Pound .
In the Spring of 1705 , it was equal in weight Common Water ; and is now still heavier in August following , because of the exceeding dry Weather of that Summer .
But in general about Midsummer , if the Weather is no ways extraordinary , it 's pretty equal to common Water in weight .
A single Grain weight of good Gall will turn a Pint and a half of this Water of a very noble deep red , and in an instant .
Syrup of Violets turns it of a Grass green With the Infusion of Brasile it gives a deep lively Blue : With that of Lign .
nephr .
first a light Green , then a light Yellow , with a Blue Crown : With the Infusion of Logwood , a blue Black : With that of Fustick Wood , a dusky Yellow : With the Flowers of Pomgranates , a fair Violet : With Leaves of Thea , a fine purplish Blue : With good Nants Brandy , an Elegant Sky-colour .
It turns a Solution of the Sacch .
Saturn .
Milky in an Instant ; and the Solution of Sublimate in some time longer .
Ol .
tart , per deliq .
sp. Sal .
Armon .
sp. Vitr .
&amp;c. make no sensible alteration .
In Calm Weather , in Winter especially , a thick oily Film covers the surface of these Waters , of as great a variety of Colours as a Rainbow ; a Spoonful of it drunk , hath the effect of , and composes as much to Sleep , as a moderate Dose of Opium .
Some of this Scum , being dried by Evaporation , tasted very fat , and felt so between the Fingers .
Some of this Powder being cast upon a redhot Iron , most of it immediately burned away with some sparkling ; and what remained was of the Colour of Rust of Iron , and tasted partly Stiptick and Earthy , and partly Saltish .
The Water it self , being gently evaporated , yields a Yellowish Sediment , more or less , according to the Seasons .
Last Spring a Quart yielded six Grains of it ; but in September following , the same Quantity afforded me nine Grains ; whereas a Pound of Tunbridge Water gave but one single Grain of Sediment to Mr. Boyle , as appears by his Memoirs of Mineral Waters .
This Sediment being boiled in common Water , made a strong Lixivium , with which Acids caus 'd no sensible Fermentation ; but Syrup of Violets turned it Green .
This Lixivium being evapo rated , yielded a fat Sulphurous Salt , that would not coagulate into Crystals .
I can get but three or four Grains of it out of ten Grains of Sediment ; but from the Colour and Taste of the Lixivium .
I have reason to suspect , that there is a larger proportion of Saline Particles , which , as I conceive , being Volatile , evaporate away with the Water .
These are some of the most material Experiments I have made upon these Waters .
As for their Medicinal Virtues , I might say a great deal , but hoping to enlarge upon it another time , I shall only tell you , Sir , that from the many and truly wonderful Cures , I believe it to be one of the most excellent Waters of this kind , as yet found out in England .
The little Well is very useful in Diseases of the Breast , as in Asthma 's , Coughs , Rheums and Catarhs .
It hath cured several given over of Consumptions of the Lungs .
Most Disorders of the Stomach are cured by this Water .
It seldom fails in the Cure of Rheumatic gouty Pains of the Limbs , or other Parts of the Body , in the Scurvy and Melancholy Distempers , Janndice , Vapours , all sorts of Stoppages , Scabs , Itch , &amp;c. But in Gravel , Cholick , and Greensickness , it is a true Specific , as also in inward Ulcers , if not too far gone .
A Potter of Bolton , who had spent his Substance in Doctors , and was last Spring discharged out of St. Thomas 's Hospital , as an Incurable Person , hath been cured of his Ulcer in the Bladder this Summer , with drinking of this Water for three Months together .
In Agues it is beyond the Bark : I have seen some Rebellious ones , that could not be removed by the Bark , perfectly cured by this Water , and some Constitutions quite worn out by the frequent Relapses of this Distemper , re15 F stored stored again .
This is also remarkable , that it agrees best with old , decayed , and weak Constitutions .
The Water sets pleasantly upon the Stomach , works off by Urine very briskly , causes a good Appetite , cheers the Spirits , and procures Sleep .
It is not binding , as some other Chalybeats are , but keeps the Body open to most People , and upon some it brings now and then a gentle Looseness , which carries off the Distemper .
For these four Years I have prescribed 'em to many Scores of People every Season , and I could never observe any inconveniency , or ill Symptom arise from the Drinking of 'em .

