VI .
An Experiment made at a Meeting of the R. Society , Decemb. 20 .
1704 .
Of firing Gun-powder on a red hot Iron in Vacuo Boyliano .
By Mr Fr. Hauksbee .
THe Candent Iron being included in a Recipient proper for that purpose , and the Air withdrawn ( which was in about two minutes of time ) the Mercury then in the Gage standing at 29 inches 1 , a quantity of Gunpowder was made immediately to descend upon the red hot Iron , which continued upon the surface of it some small time before it went off , and then was observed not to fire all at once ; and the last of the Quantity that did so , seemed to give the greatest flash : Upon which , the Mercurial gage was taken notice of to descend something more than an Inch , it rising again 3/ 10 of the same .
And upon several Repetitions of the like quantity of Powder ( the factitious Air being always first withdrawn ) the Appearances were very resembling .
Again , upon Purging the Recipient of the factitious Air , and the Mercury elevated in the Gage as at first , three quantities were caus 'd to descend upon the Iron , whose Explosion , as well as the Air produced from them , seemed in proportion to the quantity of Powder : The Mercury then in the Gage subsiding to 26 .
But upon dropping 6 Quantities ( the Recipient being first purged as before ) which Quantities not descending all at once , but successively as fast as might be , the Quantities that first reached the ( still Ignited ) Iron taking fire , by their flame making an Explosion of the whole , at once blowing up the Recipient , altho the weight of Air incumbent on it was equal to 144 l. 1/ 2 , accounting the Receiver at 3 inches 1/ 2 diameter , but was something more , which does sufficiently allow for the want of height of Mercury .
The Gage then standing at 29 1/ 2 , instead of 30 , from which the Calculation is made .
The Gunpowder used was the common Glas 'd sort ; and the weight of the six quantities , which removed the Recipient , with so great a Pressure incumbent o n't , was but 7 grains , each Quantity weighing something more than one .
I did not observe the Recipient to be broke before it reached the Floor .
It was thick lined with Sulphureous and Nitrous Steams , so that the flashes of Fire thro the Clowdiness of the Glass seemed very much to resemble saint Lightnings .
The Content of the Receiver was equal to about 25 ounces 1/ 2 of Water , allowing for the Bulk of Iron and Pedestal .

