]\gt ; On the riatio , of the Pressure developed during the Exptosion of Cordite in Closed Vessels .
By CHABLES H. LEES , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Physics in the East London College , and J. E. PETAVEL , M.Sc .
, Lecturer on Mechanics in the University of Manchester .
( Received March 15 , \mdash ; Read May 2 , 1907 .
) It has been recently shown*that Sir Andrew Noble 's on the maximum pressure developed by the explosion of cordite in an enclosure of constant volume can be expressed by the equation , ( 1 ) where is the gravimetric density of the in the vessel , the quotient of the mass of the by the volume of the vessel , is a constant whose value is if pressure is measured in tons per square inch , and is 10,021 if measured in atmospheres , and is equal to the reciprocal of the density of cordite .
Writing the mass of cordite , its density , and the volume of the vessel , we have ' and the equation becomes Or if is the volume of the cordite , , and we get ; ( 2 ) , the maximum pressure developed is proportional to the mass and therefore to the volume of cordite used , and inversely proportional to the volume of the vessel initia ] unoccupied by cordite .
Since this holds for the maximum pressure , it is reasonable to suppose that * Petavel , 'Phil .
Trans , vol. 205 , p. 385 .
'Proc .
of Royal Inst vol. 16 , Part II , p. 329 , 1900 ; also 'Text-book of ) ' p. 99 , 1901 .
The results given by Sir Andrew Noble for Cordite Mark I in 'Phil .
Traus , give and 11,200 respectively .
Prof Lees and Mr. Petavel .
Variation of [ Mar. 15 , it holds throughout the explosion , i.e. , that if is the pressure at any instant and the mass of cordite consumed up to that instant , ( 3 ) Now it has been shown by Vieille* and by that cordite when once ignited is consumed in parallel layers .
Hence if is the radius of the cylinders of cordite used , their mean radius at the instant when the pressure , is if the burning at the ends of the cylinders be neglected .
Hence or If , then , from observations of the pressure as a function of the time , we determine by this equation , we can deduce the law of variation of the speed of combustion with .
This was done for 13 of the experiments described in ' Phil. Trans , vol. 205 , p. 390 , and the values of ' plot.ted against .
They were found to lie close to a straight line passing a little above the origin of pressure .
It seemed , therefore , worth while to calculate the consequence of taking the speed of combustions as given by the equation , ( 4 ) where , from the position of the line found , it seemed probable that about cm .
per second , and about 0 cm .
per second per atmosphere , the pressure being measured in atmospheres .
If is the radius of the cordite , the gravimetric density of the charge , the maximum pressure which would be generated according to equation ( 1 ) , and if there were no cooling , we should have at the time , at which the mean radius of the zones of combustion , ( 5 ) and , ( 6 ) 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 118 , p. 346 , etc. .
Soc. Proc vol. 62 , p. 129 .
This result was communicated verbally to the Society on February 14 , during the discussion on Major Mansell 's paper " " On the Law of Burning of Modffied Cordite in which he gave au expression of the same form for the rate of combustion .
1907 .
] Pressure developed during Explosion of , etc. 279 where is the pressure in the enclosure at the commencement of the explosion .
Differentiatin with respect to time , we have .
Hence constant .
( 7 ) Let , i.e. , , then and Hence argcosh constant .
If we measure from the instant at which the explosion commences , , when Hence the equation becomes ( 8 ) * Tables of these hyperbolic functions may be found in ' Dale 's Mathematical Tables .
' Prof Lees and Mr. Petavel .
Variation of [ Mar. 15 , i. e. , or ( 9 ) From ( 9 ) it follows that the total time occupied by the explosion is given by .
i.e. , ( 10 ) in virtue of ( 1 ) .
Hence the time taken by the explosion is , for the same initial pressure and gravimetric density , proportional to the radius of the cordite used , i.e. , .
( 11 ) Considered as a function of will have its maximum for a value of determined by the equation , i.e. , i.e. , when , i.e. , when approximately ; ( 12 ) that is when the actual pressure is approximately two-thirds of the maximum Pressure developed during Explosion of Cordite , etc. 281 pressure .
The maximum rate of increase of the pressure is therefore given by the equation maximum ; , maximum ) roximately ; -hat is proportional to the square of the maximum pressure attained , nversely proportional to the radius of the cordite used , and directly proortional to the pressure coefficient of the speed of combustion of the cordite .
The most severe test of the theory is its power of reproducing curves of variation of pressure with time during the course of an Jlxplosion .
The available number of such cnrves free from osciliations of the 0.005 FIG. l.\mdash ; Time pressure curve for Mark density of .
The curves are reproduced points are calculated by formula ( 9 ) .
Prof. Lees and Mr. Petavel .
Variation of [ Mar. 15 , recording instrument is small , and they relate to charges of gravimetric densities not exceeding Several of these results have been compared with the above expression , and the agreement found in each case is very close .
It may be illustrated by two typical examples , in both of which the gravimetric density is , but in A the diameter of the cordite is cm .
, and in cm .
In curve the agreement is entirely satisfactory .
Curve , however , is in advance of the calculated points by about one thousandth of a second .
Now , the chronographic determinations in experiments of this kind give relative times to a high degree of accuracy , but the zero from which time should be counted is not so easily fixed .
In the present case a zero error of one or two thousandths of a second might well have occurred .
Assuming this to have been the case , we have added a constant of second to the abscissae of , and so obtain the dotted curve , which follows closely the calculated points .
A further test of the theory may be found in the values of the time required for the pressure to reach its maximum .
These times , as determined by Petavel at various gravimetric densities and for various diameters of cords , are shown in fig. 2 .
The calculated values coincide exactly with the measurement of the pgflCll FIG. 2.\mdash ; Time required to reach the maximum pressure .
The curves are drawn from experimental determinations .
The separate points represent the values calculated by formula ( 10 ) .
* Petavel , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 205 , pp. 390\mdash ; 398 .
1907 .
] Pressure developed Eoeplosion of Cordite , etc. photographic records for gravimetric densities of and , but for they show a certain departure , from one thousandth of a second for the fine cord and five thousandths for the This divergence may probably be attributed to the difficulty of fixing experimentally the zero from which time should be counted .
It is easy to time the instant of firing , i.e. , the instant at which the cordite is surrounded by the flame produced by the igniting charge , but this time does not coincide with the time of nition of the .
Although surrounded by an intensely hot flame , the explosive requires some thousandths of a second before it bursts into flame .
This time , of course , depends on the specih'c heat of the explosive and its ignition temperature .
That this time is by no meaus inappreciable may be by the fact that a rod of cordite of may passed comparative]y slowly through a Bunsen flame without niting .
The above comparisons are , we think , sufficient to show that the formula ( 9 ) represents the experimental data with sufficient accuracy , and il may be of interest to se it to determine the form of the pressure-time curves for higher pressures , under which it has been found difficult to free the curve determined experimentally from the oscillations due to the recording instrument .
In this curve is plotted for gravimetric densities of , and FIG. 3.\mdash ; Showing the variation in the shape of the combustion curve with increasing gravimetric density .
The three curves are calculated from formula ( 9 ) , taking ; they are reduced to the same maximum ordinate to show clearly the relative change in shape .
284 Variation of Pressure during Explosion of Cordite , etc. of cordite of diameter -inch , the three curves being reduced to the same maximum ordinate in order to show the relative change in shape .
The principal facts are at once noticeable .
The first , , the considerable increase in the velocity of the explosion , with increase of gravimetric density , is , of course , well known .
The second , i.e. , the change in shape of the curve , has considerable practical importance .
Whereas at very low gravimetric densities the combustion curve made up of three parts which are of nearly equal importance , i.e. , a comparatively slow initial rise , a central rapid , and a final slow rise ; at gravimetric densities the central portion preponderates .
The pressures developed during the ignition period are too small reatly affect most ballistic problems , in which the ective densities are of the order .
These considerations justify the method adopted by Noble , who , for practical purposes , takes the zero of time at the commencement of the central portion of the curve .
of Results .
( 1 ) As most of the modern explosives used in ballistics follow the law of combustion by parallel surfaces , from what precedes it appears that their properties may be defined by four constants , which may be determined without difficulty by direct experiment .
( 2 ) The constants and ( of formula 1 ) fix the maximum pressure which will be attained under any given density .
The constants and ( of formulae 4 and 9 ) measure the rate of combustion and determine the time which elapses between the ignition of the charge and the development of the maximum pressure .
( 3 ) When the explosive is made up in a cylindricalform , the time occupied by an explosion for the same ) ( ravimetric density is proportional to the diameter of the cylinder .
( 4 ) The rate of increase of the pressure is most rapid when about twothirds of the maximum pressure has been attained .
( 5 ) The maximum rate of rise of pressure per second is equal approximately to into the square of the maximum pressure in atmospheres divided by the diameter of the cordite in centimetres .
( 6 ) When the explosion is fired under a high gravimetric density , the " " effective\ldquo ; time of combustion may for practical purposes be taken as equal to the time required if the combustion proceeded always at its maximum rate .
Mechanical Temperature Ejfects in Rarefed Gases .
5 For cordite Mark I this time is given by if the diameter measured in centimetres and the maximum pressure in atmospheres , or if the units are inches tons per square inch .
Throughout the above inyestigation the effect of the alls of the containing vessel during the combustion has been taken as small enough to be neglected .
Experiments -leaf on the Mechanical ffects in Rarefied By J. T. ILEY , , LL. D. , D.Sc .
, , and F. A. Received February Read Iarch 7 The following is intended to be a preliminary notice of some striking mechanical effects which we have obselved in the gold leaves of vacuum lectroscopes , and which , at first sight , be taken to simulate electrificabion of bodies by light and radiant heat .
Experiment l.\mdash ; The first indications which presented themselves to us , of bhe existence of the peculiar effects which we are about to describe , were obtained while we were experimenting with a " " radium clock constructed much as described by the Hon. R. Strutt , F.B.S. * We have set up this apparatus for the purpose of carrying out secular vations , and in order to find , if possible , whether the activity of the radium seems to diminish with time .
The radium clock , as is well known , is practically a gold-leaf electroscope , contained in an outer vessel highly exhausted , in which a small glass tube containing some radium , and with its outer surface smeared with an aqueous solution of phosphoric anhydride , is connected metallically to the gold leaves .
Two metallic plates , with connections passing to the outside through the glass cover of the electroscope , are placed on the two sides of the gold leaves ; and the leaves are long enough to touch these plates when their divergence reaches a certain amount .
As the -rays of the radium emanation escape , the -rays electrify the gold leaves , which then diverge ; and , diverging , they come in contact with the side plates .
They are then discharged , and fall together again ; but become electrified as before .
* Strutt , 'Phil .
Mag November , 1903 ; Rutherford 's 'Radio-activity , ' 2nd edition , p. 122 .

