378 Candidates for Election .
[ Mar. 6 , Billings ( J. S. ) and R. Fletcher .
Index Medicus : a Monthly Classified Record of the current Medical Literature of the World .
Yol .
I. No. 1 .
roy .
8vo .
New York 1879 .
The Editors .
Boncompagni ( B. ) Deux Lettres inedites de Joseph Louis Lagrange , tirees de la Bibliothique Royale de Berlin .
4to .
Berlin 1878 .
The Editor .
Cattaneo ( Ange .
) Description de l'invention ayant pour titre Aver , tisseur Electro-Automatique Telegraphe Yoyageant , pour la surety des trains de chemin de fer .
8vo .
Pavia 1878 .
The Author .
Fayrer ( Sir Joseph ) F.R.S. On the relation of Filaria Sanguinis Hominis to the Endemic Diseases of India .
12mo .
London 1879 .
The Author .
Galloway ( W. ) Sur les Explosions de poussieres charbonneuses ; traduction de M. Chansselle .
8vo .
St. Etienne 1878 .
The Author .
Henle ( J. ) Zur Anatomie der Crystallinse .
4to .
Gottingen 1878 .
The Author .
Schrauf ( A. ) Ueber die Tellurerze Siebenbiirgens .
8vo .
Leipzig 1373 , The Author .
Schwendler ( Louis .
) Precis of Report on Electric Light Experiments .
Folio .
London1878 .
The India Office .
Smyth ( Piazzi .
) End-on Illumination in Private Spectroscopy .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1879 .
The Author .
March 6 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates for election into the Society were read , as follows:\#151 ; Henry James Alderson , Lieut.-Col. R.A. Thomas Clifford Allbutt , M.A. , M.D. John Anderson , M.D. , F.R.S.E. , F.L.S. William Edward Ayrton , Assoc. Inst. C.E. Henry Walter Bates , F.L.S. , F.Z.S. Rev. Miles Joseph Berkeley , F.L.S. 1879.1 Physiology of the Nervous System of the Crayfish .
379 Henry Bessemer , Assoc. Inst. C. E. Henry Francis Blanford , F.G.S. George Stewardson Brady , M.D. , F.L.S. Prof. Alexander Crum Brown , D. Sc. , M.D. Walter La wry Buller , I ) .
Sc. , F.L.S. Charles Creighton , M.D. William Sweetland Dallas , F.L.S. George Howard Darwin , M.A. Francis Stephen Bennet Francis de Chaumont , M.D. John Dixon , C.E. Sir George Duckett , Bart. Prof. Joseph D. Everett , M.A. , D.C.L. William Galloway .
Henry Haversham Godwin-Austen , Lieut.-Col. Prof. Thomas Minchin Goodeve , M.A. Charles Alexander Gordon , M.D. , C.B. Charles Graves , Bishop of Limerick .
Townshend Monckton Hall , F.G.S. John Harley , M.D. , F.L.S. John Deakin Heaton , M.D. Henry M. Jeffery , M.A. John Edward Lee , F.S.A. , F.G.S. Prof. George Downing Liveing , M.A. George Matthey , F.C.S. William Munro , General , C.B. , F.L.S. Charles Henry Owen , Col. R.A. William Henry Preece , C.E. Charles Bland Radcliffe , M.D. , F.R.C.P. John Rae , LL. D. George Banks Rennie , C.E. Prof. J. Emerson Reynolds , M.D. George F. Rodwell , F.C.S. George John Romanes , M.A. Sir Sidney Smith Saunders , C.M.G. Arthur Schuster , Ph. D. , F.R.A.S. Michael Scott , M.I.C.E. Prof. Harry Govier Seeley , F.L.S. John Spiller , F.C.S. Bindon Blood Stoney , M.A. , M.I.C.E. Sir Henry Thompson , F.R.C.S. William A. Tilden , D.Sc .
Alfred Tribe , F.C.S. James Clifton Ward , F.G.S. Benjamin Williamson , M.A. Charles R. Alder Wright , D.Sc .
Prof. Edward Percival Wright , M.D. , M.A. , F.L.S. Thomas Wright , M.D. , F.R.S.E. , %F.G.S .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Observations on the Physiology of the Nervous System of the Crayfish { Astacus Fluviatilis ' ) .
" By JAMES Ward , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Michael Foster , M.D. , F.R.S. , Prselector of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received February 17 , 1879 .
I. When one of the supra-cesophageaZ commissures is divided , the whole body of the crayfish on the injured side is more or less enfeebled , with 2 f 2 380 Mr. J. Ward .
On the Physiology of the Nervous [ Mar. 6 , the exception of the swimmerets and possibly the gnathites .
The change is most marked in the antennae and eye-stalks , which barely respond to considerable excitation ; and after these perhaps in the abdomen , the power of swimming or turning over being generally entirely lost .
The muscles connecting the abdominal segments on the injured side are relaxed , and the tail-fin appendages on that side are no longer spread out in the normal manner , but remain more or less overlapping and hang down like broken limbs .
This leads to a want.of symmetry which is most conspicuous during movement : it almost disappears when the nervous connexion with the abdomen is entirely severed by a cut between the first and second segments .
No clear difference is discernible in the pinch of the two chelae , but in prehension and locomotion all the limbs on the side of the injury are weakened .
In consequence of this , when walking forward the course taken is towards the sound side , in backing the course is towards the injured side .
The chelae during progression show a bias towards the sound side ; that is to say , when the right commissure is cut , they are both directed towards some position on the animal 's left , and vice versd when the left commissure is cut .
There is a tendency when walking to flop suddenly forwards , and in some cases to " wabble " from side to side .
II .
So long , however , as the other commissure remains intact , there is no lack of spontaneity and purpose in the movements of the crayfish ; but when this too is severed , that is , when both commissures connecting the supra- with the sub-oesophageal ganglion are divided , everything of the kind disappears , save that occasionally the antennas are waved about in the normal fashion , though much more feebly .
The animal lies on its back , the maxillipedes , the chelae , and the first three pair of legs , for the most part , swinging slowly to and fro in perfect tempo ; not , however , as the swimmerets do , both sides synchronously , but with the movements of one side alternating with those of the other .
On a very slight disturbance , and at intervals , without any obvious cause , this rhythmic swing gives place to feeding or " preening " movements , the last being chiefly confined to the fourth pair of legs , which take no part in the rhythmic swing .
The feeding movements are a perfect mimicry of the movements made when food is actually seized .
These last appear to be in all respects perfectly coordinated ; so much so , indeed , that the chelate legs will wait their turn to pass their morsel to the mouth when scraps are placed in all of them at once .
But neither they , nor the chelae , nor the posterior maxillipedes , show , any selective power , even the animal 's own antennae being seized : the first evidence of taste appears when the food gets within the gape of the mandibles .
When placed on a table , the ambulatory legs are straightened out so as to lift the body as if upon stilts , the half flexed abdomen barely 1879 .
] System of the Crayfish ( Astacus Fluviatilis ) .
381 touching the ground with the tail-fin .
In this position the animal will remain for a minute or so , one or more of the chelate leg engaging in feeding movements , while the last pair are doing their best to preen the abdomen .
At length there is an attempt at locomotion , the limbs being moved slowly and in a tottering fashion , though with fair co-ordination , till after a few steps , having no power to recover its equilibrium , the animal rolls over helplessly on to its back .
In some cases the chelae were folded rigidly across each other so as to render locomotion impossible .
III .
When both commissures are divided behind the ganglion , the antennae are moved more frequently and more vigorously than in the last case : the eye-stalks too are oftener in motion .
The rhythmic swing is not infrequent in the posterior maxillipedes , but very exceptional and of very short duration elsewhere , Preening movements are more common than under the last head , and in these all four pairs oftener take part ; but feeding movements , save after external excitation , are quite exceptional .
Then , however , they are vigorous enough , but the chelate legs are very uncertain in their aims at the mouth , do not loose their hold of the food when they get it there , and all of them attempt to crowd food into the mouth together .
But the food is frequently rejected : in two cases out of three in which the experiment was tried , this " sulkiness " disappeared on dividing the supra-oesophageal commissures .
On the table these crayfish are unable to support themselves , the chelae sprawl helplessly on either side and the legs are for the most part doubled up under the body .
The posterior maxillipedes alone retain their wonted strength , and by means of these the cephalothorax is raised from the ground two or three times a minute till they are exhausted ; the antennae too being waved vigorously all the time .
IV .
In three cases , in which a longitudinal division of the supra-oesophageal ganglion was accomplished fairly satisfactorily , the animal assumed the stilted position above described , but the abdomen , instead of being bent sharply downwards , was alternately elevated to the utmost and then depressed and sometimes curved rigidly backwards for a minute or more : at which times , owing to the rigor of the chelae , it was possible to make the animal stand upon its.head .
These animals had considerable power of maintaining equilibrium and were active in the water , making , however , very pronounced " circus-movements .
" Their ambulatory legs were always obedient to the impulse to walk , and never betook themselves to feeding or preening movements at such times .
From the foregoing it may perhaps , with more or less probability , be inferred :\#151 ; ( a. ) That there is no decussation of the longitudinal fibres in the nervous system of the crayfish .
382 Physiology of the Nervous System of the Crayfish .
[ Mar. 6 , ( 6 .
) That on the presence of the snpra-oesophageal ganglion depend ( 1 ) the spontaneous activity of the animal as a whole , or what might be called its volitional activity ; ( 2 ) the power to inhibit the aimless and wasteful mechanical activity of the lower centres ; ( 3 ) the power to maintain equilibrium ; and ( 4 ) the use of the abdomen in swimming .
( c. ) That the sub-oesophageal ganglia are the centres for coordinating ( 1 ) the locomotive* and ( 2 ) the feeding movements , and ( 3 ) for the rhythmic swing described under II .
( The stilted gait in II and the vigour of the posterior maxillipedes in III , the limbs connected with the other centres being then disabled for locomotion , seem to show that the sub-oesophageal ganglion is the source of a considerable amount of motor energy .
) ( d. ) That there is much less solidarity , a much less perfect con .
sensus , among the nervous centres in the crayfish than in animals higher in the scale .
The brainless frog , e.g. , is motionless except when stimulated , and even then does nothing to suggest that its members have a life on their own account ; whereas the limbs of a crayfish deprived of its first two ganglia , are almost incessantly preening , and when feeding movements are started , the chelate legs rob , and plaj^ at cross purposes with , each other as well as four distinct individuals could do .
( e. ) That some stimulus from other centres is more or less necessary to the activity of any given centre .
This conclusion is rendered , at all events , probable ( 1 ) by a comparison of the activity of the antennae and eye-stalks in T , II , and III ; ( 2 ) by the diminution in the spontaneous feeding movements in III ; and ( 3 ) by the simultaneous increase in the preening movements\#151 ; the excitations from the tail-fin region having no longer a counterpoise .
( / .
) The " natural " discharge of a ganglionic centre ( not exhibiting " volition " ) appears to be of a rhythmic kind ; the rhythmic movements becoming converted into varied movements by temporary augmentation or inhibition.f It remains to mention one or two outlying points .
There is much in the action and inaction of the mandibles , to suggest very considerable independence between the centre for their movements and that for the movements of the maxillipedes\#151 ; which last is doubtless situated in the sub-oesophageal ganglion .
Thus the mandibles in several cases lost the power to move while the maxillipedes continued unaffected , and * In further proof of this position it may be added that , when the commissures are divided behind the second thoracic ganglia , the animal crawls with extreme difliculty by alternate advances of the chelae alone ; and that when they are divided behind the third it walks by alternate advances both of the chelae and the first pair of legs : the other legs in each case being rucked together in confusion .
f Is there such a rhythm at the bottom of " volitional " movements ?
1879 .
] On the Comatulae of the " Challenger " Expedition .
383 they never , at any time , participated in the rhythmic swing or feeding movements of these last .
Gentle pressure on the anus or the sexual organs excites or inhibits the swimmerets , according as they are already at rest or in motion , and leads , where possible , to a folding of the abdomen .
The feeding and preening movements are also , as a rule , brought to a complete standstill by slight irritation of the anus , the after movements being in all cases more violent .
So long as the nervous connexion with the tail-fin remained intact , the swimmerets can be excited to considerable activity by touching this region , but when this connexion is destroyed , it is with difficulty they are made to move at all .
The experiments , of which the above is a brief and preliminary account , were carried on at the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
II .
" Preliminary Report upon the Comatulce of the ' Challenger ' Expedition .
" By P. Herbert Carpenter , M.A. , Assistant Master at Eton College .
Communicated by Sir Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. Received February 18 , 1879 .
Published by permission of the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury .
The collection of Comatulce made by the staff of the " Challenger " includes specimens from 45 different localities , but few of which are deep-water stations .
Comatulce were only obtained seven times from depths exceeding 1,000 fathoms , namely at : \#151 ; Station .
Depth .
Station .
Depth .
205 1,050 fathoms 158 1,800 fathoms .
218 1,070 " 160 2,600 " 175 1,350 244 2,900 " 147 1,600 At lesser depths , 200\#151 ; 1,000 fathoms , Comatulce were met with at 13 stations ; but by far the greatest number both of species and of individuals were dredged at depths much less than 200 fathoms , and often less than 20 fathoms , at 26 widely distant stations .
No. Station .
Locality .
Depth in fathoms .
Antedon .
Actinometra .
Promachocrinus .
Ophiocrinus .
l 48 51 2 2 .
\#171 ; St. Paul 's Pocks 10\#151 ; 80 . .
i 3 122 350 1 4 . .
Bahia 7\#151 ; 20 1 2

