No.9 .
No. 10 .
ABCAB No:11 .
AB C No. 14 .
ABC No. 13 .
DEFCF D E G No.15 .
AH ABC GB DEF H IKLM B No. 18 : G CD FF AE No.12 .
G ABC HH DEF No.16 .
AB DD CDD G E C No.17 .
ABC ECA D A new way of raising Water ; by Dr. Papin , Fellow of the Royal Society .
HAving seen it practised several times , that after the Discovery of some new Problem , the Inventor propounds it as a Riddle , to stir up those that are ingenious in the same kind of learning , and make them find sometimes better things then what is propounded : I have thought I might do the same , with a way for railing water , which I think surely to be new , since it is not used in considerable occasions where it might be of great advantage .
A A. Is a great Glass made like a Tumbler , but much bigger , and laid upon the Chimney board B B. C C. Is the Engine like a small Rock , that doth constantly spout out water by the two holes D D : this Rock is kept at a distance from the bottom of the Glass A A : so that it may plainly be seen that it cannot receive any water by subterraneal Tubes .
E E. Is a factitious Coral reaching from the Center of the Rock C C. to the Center of the Crown F F. F F. Is a Crown bearing upon the Aperture of the Glass A A. and holding the Rock C C. suspended at a considerable distance from the bottom .
G G. A Glass open at both ends applied to the Rock C C. to keep the water upon it from falling down .
H H. Two shells to receive the water from the Jetto 's .
I would have brought this Engine hither , but it is so apt to be spoiled , by carrying to and fro , that I hope the R. S. will pardon me , if I keep it at my lodging , where it may be seen at any time : and if they be pleased to appoint some that may come , and release one another , to watch it a whole day , and see whether it will not run constantly , nor loose any thing of its strength : I hope that the learned in Hydrostaticks , being by these means assured of the possibility of such a Motion , will be the more ready to think of it , and find perhaps something better then this .
But if no body doth it , I will my self within some months , publish this contrivance , with the uses it may be applied to .
According to the Inventors desire the Royal Society ordered that the thing should be observed : the Ingenious Mr. Hook saw it for near half an hour , there being other persons to observe it longer , who watch't it about four hours together , during which time there sprung out of the Rock C C. above a hundred times more water , then a vessel of the same bigness could hold : so that they went away not doubting but the water did circulate in the said Engine , and might continue a great deal longer , since it did run still as constantly and as high as at their first coming : and the Honorable Mr. Boil , knowing the whole contrivance of the Engine , assures , that it may continue for a whole day and more ; and thinks it worth to be left for some time , to the enquiry of Ingenious men .

