1884 .
] On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
XV .
On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
" By William B. Carpenter , C.B. , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received May 20 , 1884 .
In a Memoir " On the Structure , Physiology , and Development of Antedon ( Comatula , Lamk .
) rosacea , " presented to the Royal Society in 1865 , I stated* that I had ascertained that the cord ( fig. 1 , g ) lying Fig. 1 .
Diagrammatic transverse section of an arm of Antedon rosacea .
( The ventral or ascending branches of the axial cord cannot be followed continuously in any single section .
) ax , axial cord , giving off pairs of branches , n , n , which proceed towards the dorsal aspect of the arm ; nm , branches distributed on the ends of the muscular bundles , whose position is marked out by the dotted lines tn , m j na , ventral branches ; cc , coeliac canal ; stc , subtentacular canal ; g , genital rachis ; tc , tentacular canal or water-vessel , giving off branches to the tentacula , t , t , between which lies the ambulacral groove , whose floor is covered by a thick ciliated epithelial layer , ae , immediately beneath which is the riband-like band , nv , supposed to be the ventral nerve 5 s , s , sacculi .
F 2 * " Philosophical Transactions , " 1865 , p. 705 .
68 Dr. W. B. Carpenter .
[ May 29 , between the two principal canals ( stcand cc ) in the arms of Crinoidea which had been regarded by Professor J. Muller as a nerve , really belongs to the reproductive apparatus ; and further , that I had been led to regard as a nerve-trunk the solid cord which traverses the axial canal of each calcareous segment of the rays and arms , through finding that this cord gives off a regular system of branching fibres ( nm , nm ) to the muscular bundles ( m m ) which intervene between the calcareous segments , and which flex the arms by their contraction .
In a further communication on this subject made to the Royal Society at the beginning of 1876 , I supported this view by experimental evidence ; * showing that in an eviscerated specimen of Antedon , irritation of the quinquelocular organ ( contained in the centro-dorsal basin ) from the walls of which the radial cords proceed , produces a sudden and simultaneous contraction of the flexor muscles of the arms , similar to that which I had mentioned in my Memoir ( S 13 ) as resulting in the natural condition of the animal from irritation of its oral pinnules .
That the supposed nerve of Muller is really what I stated it to be\#151 ; a genital rachis\#151 ; had been independently ascertained by Professor Semper , and is now universally acknowledged .
But my other conclusion has not gained the same acceptance .
Coincidently with the communication to which I have last referred , it was affirmed by Professor Greef of Marburg and by Dr. Ludwig , that the real nerve in the arms of Crinoidea is ( as in other Stellerida ) , a fibrillar band ( fig. 1 , nv ) that lies beneath the epithelial floor ( ) of the ambulacral ( ventral ) furrow of the arms ; a conclusion at which Professor Huxley had independently arrived .
And this view is now very generally received and taught in Germany .
In a third communication which I shortly afterwardsf made to the Royal Society , I referred to this doctrine ; and , whilst admitting the probability that this sub-ambulacral band is really a nerve , I adduced what seemed to me conclusive proof that it cannot be the nerve through which the motor apparatus of the arms is called into action .
For , in the first place , it is far removed from this apparatus in position ; being separated from the muscles by the triple canal-system , and not being connected with them ( so far as can be discerned ) by any branching fibres .
And , further , the loss of the visceral mass ( which contains the central ring of this ambulacral nerve-system ) was not found in the least degree to interfere with the rhythmical swimming actions of the animal ; whilst a division of the ambulacral nerve in any individual arm produced no paralysis of that arm .
On the other hand , I stated that my son ( who was then working in the laboratory of Professor Semper at Wurzburg ) had fully confirmed # " Proceedings , " Jan. 20 , 1876 , p. 226 .
f Ibid.y April 6 , 1876 .
1884 .
] On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
69 __means of thin sections\#151 ; the statement I had made ten years previously , as to the regular transmission of pairs of branches ( fig. 1 , nm ) from the axial cord of the arms to their successive pairs of flexor muscles ; and I adduced what seemed to me conclusive experimental proof that these cords , which radiate from the wall of the central quinquelocular organ , and are further connected with each other by a commissural ring , have a motor function .
In the first place , I argued that the extraordinary co-ordination which is manifested in the active swimming action of Antedon , when it spontaneously leaves , or is detached from , the anchorage afforded by the grasp of its dorsal cirri , cannot be accounted for without a definite direction from a nervous centre .
That this centre is not in a circum-oral ring , is clear from the continuance of the regular movements after the complete evisceration of the animal .
On the other hand , that it is contained within the centro-dorsal basin , was indicated alike by the coiling-up of the arms when the quinquelocular organ was irritated , and by the complete paralysis of the flexor muscles which followed the removal of the .centro-dorsal basin with its contents .
And , further , the destruction of a portion of the axial cord of an arm , the ventral nerve being left uninjured , was shown to be followed by complete paralysis of the muscles of that arm beyond the injured part .
The anatomical and the experimental evidence that the quinquelocular organ , with its radiating and branching cords , constitute the motor nervous system of the arms , being thus in complete harmony , I ventured ( p. 454 ) to profess myself " at a loss to understand what is the superior probative force of the evidence which is universally held to justify the assignment of such functions to the brain and spinal cord , and the white solid cords proceeding from these centres , in a Vertebrate animal .
" That the sub-ambulacral band of Ludwig is also a nerve ( as homology would indicate ) , I thought not improbable ; but looking to its immediate proximity to the sensory ( ventral ) surface , and to the absence of any connexion with the muscular apparatus , I thought that it might probably be an afferent nerve , " the functions of the single trunk of the Asterida being here divided between two , an afferent and a motor , just as , in Man , the double function of an ordinary spinal nerve is divided in the head between the fifth and seventh pairs .
" During the eight years which have elapsed since these statements were made public , it might have been expected that my conclusions would have been either accepted or controverted .
But the question has been considered by many eminent Zoologists , especially in Germany , as one which is so conclusively settled by Homology , as not 70 Dr. W. B. Carpenter .
[ May 29 , to be a matter for discussion ; it being impossible ( in their judgment ) that the axial cords of the arms should be nerves , whatever may be the anatomical and experimental evidence that they are .
I would submit , however , that the possibilities of Nature are not limited by the dicta of her interpreters ; 1* that anatomical and experimental facts are not to be set aside by preconceived theoretical opinions ; and that the morphology of the Crinoidea has to be settled upon the basis of their own organisation , before it is brought into comparison with that of other Echinodermata .
Now the question whether the axial cords of Crinoidea do , or do not , form part of their nervous system , has to be decided : first , by their Histological character ; secondly , by their Anatomical distribution ; and , , by Physiological evidence ; and on each .of these points I have now a large body of new evidence to adduce , derived from the careful and minute investigations on which my son , Dr. P. Herbert Carpenter , has been continuously engaged during the last eight years .
Of the results of .
these investigations , which are scattered through the various papers he has published on " Crinoid Morphology , " I shall now present a summary , arranged under the above heads ; referring to those papersf for a more detailed statement of them .
Histological Character.\#151 ; Although the axial cords do not consist of tubular nerve-fibres\#151 ; their substance being essentially protoplasmic , and showing but an indistinct fibrillation when hardened in spirit\#151 ; yet , scattered through these cords and their branches , Dr. P. H. Carpenter has found distinct bi-polar and multi-polar cells ; and he has further ascertained that the sub-ambulacral band presents a histological character so precisely identical , notwithstanding the difference of its origin , as to afford a strong presumption that if the latter is a nerve , the former likewise is so .
On the other hand , the axial cords , which are regarded by Ludwig as merely unconsolidated portions of the basis-substance of the calcareous segments , differ essentially from that substance histologically .
Anatomical Distribution.\#151 ; Nothing can be more marked or more constant than the distribution of the branches ( fig. 1 , nm , ) of the axial cords to the very definite inter-segmental muscular bundles of the arms and pinnules , alike in the free and in the pedunculate * Every one familiar with the History of Science knows how often such a priori assumptions have been made and disproved .
f " Remarks on the Anatomy of the Arms of the Crinoids , " in " Journal of Anatomy and Physiology " ( 1876 ) , vol. x , p. 584 , and vol. xi , pp. 87-93 ; " On the Q-enus Actinometrd " in " Transactions of Linnssan Society , " Second Series , Zool. , vol. ii , pp. 32-37 ; " On the Comatulce of the 'Challenger1 Expedition , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " March 6 , 1879 , pp. 394-395 ; " The Minute Anatomy of the Brachiate Echinoderms , " in " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science , " vol. xxi , pp. 188-193 , and vol. xxiii , pp. 614-616 .
1884 .
] On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
71 Crinoids .
Moreover , in the dorsal cirri of Comatulidae , which have a markedly prehensile power , but have no definite muscular bundles , the axial cords send branches into the contractile substance that serves the purpose of muscles .
Branches of the axial cords ( , no ) also proceed to the lateral surfaces of the soft parts that lie on the ventral side of the arms and pinnules , and are traceable to the very lips of their ambulacral grooves , forming also an extensive plexus along the sides of the ambulacral grooves of the disk .
On the other hand , the sub-ambulacral nerves , which in Ophiurida send very distinct branches to the muscles of the arms , send no such branches to the arm-muscles of Crinoidea .
And thus the evidence furnished by anatomical distribution as to the source of the nerve-power which calls those muscles into contraction , is alike positive in regard to the axial cords , and negative in regard to the sub-ambulacral nerves .
At the same time , the distribution of the branches of the axial cords to the perisome of the soft parts of the arms and pinnules , would indicate that these have an afferent or sensory function.* Physiological Evidence.\#151 ; The inquiries of Dr. P. H. Carpenter , having been entirely limited to the anatomical examination of spirit specimens of Crinoidea , do not afford any direct confirmation of the statements I formerly made as to the actions of living Antedons ; but they furnish most remarkable confirmatory evidence of an indirect kind\#151 ; that , namely , which may be deduced from what Cuvier termed " Experiments prepared for us by Nature .
" For having met with numerous cases in which the ambulacral groove and the tentacular apparatus are wanting , whilst the arms and pinnules showing this deficiency are normally constructed in other respects , he has invariably found that the ventral or sub-ambulacral nerve is alike deficient , while the axial cord and its branches have their usual distribution .
Among these cases , the following may be specified : \#151 ; a. The long pinnules which come off from the second brachial segments of Antedon rosacea , and which ( from the manner in which they arch over the mouth during life ) have been distinguished as oral pinnules , are destitute of the tentacular apparatus\#151 ; as I pointed out in my original Memoir ( S 16 ) .
This peculiarity has been found by my son to be a general character of the genus Antedon ; and he has further shown that , with the deficiency of tentacles , there is also an absence of the ordinary ciliated epithelium of the ambulacral groove , and of the subjacent nerve and nerve-vessel.+ * The observations of Dr. P. H. Carpenter upon the distribution of the branches of the axial cords , have been fully confirmed by those of M. Edmond Perrier j who has been led by his own independent investigations on Antedon rosacea to the full acceptance of the nervous character of these cords , notwithstanding his opposite prepossession .
( See " Comptes Rendus , " July , 1883 , tome xcvii , p. 187 .
) t " Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , " vol. xi , October , 1876 , p. 89 .
72 Dr. W. B. Carpenter .
[ May 29 , I b. It lias been noticed , as well by Ludwig as by Dr. P. H. Carpenter , that in the terminal segments alike of the arms and of the pinnules of Antedon Eschrictii , there is a similar want of the tentacular apparatus , with an obliteration of the ambulacral grooves by the approximation and fusion of the elevated folds of perisome at their sides ; and that here also the sub-ambulacral nerve is absent .
c. The most remarkable case of this kind , however , is presented by that aberrant type of Comatulidae which is distinguished generically as Actinometra .
This genus differs from Antedon in the excentricity of its mouth : the anal orifice being generally in or near the centre of its ventral disk , whilst the mouth lies near its margin .
This curious disposition is not related to any departure from radial symmetry in the structure either of the calcareous skeleton , of its muscular apparatus , or of the axial cords whose branches are distributed to the muscles and perisomatic surface of the arms ; but it is associated with a very marked irregularity in the disposition of the tentacular and ambulacral apparatus .
For , whilst in the arms given off from the oral side of the disk , some pairs of pinnules are usually destitute both of tentacles and of ciliated ambulacral grooves , this deficiency is generally complete in a large proportion , not only of the pinnules , but of the arms arising from the aboral side of the disk , sometimes amounting to one-half of the entire circle , and occasionally also on the disk itself .
And wherever the tentacles and ambulacral groove are wanting , the sub-ambulacra !
nerve also is absent .
Yet we are assured by Professor Semper , who kept Actinometrco for weeks together in his aquaria , that " he never saw the least trace of any irregularity in the alternating movement of their arms while swimming ; " the non-tentaculated members , notwithstanding the want of sub-ambulacral nerves , acting precisely like the tentaculated.* Thus , then , the " Experiment prepared for us by Nature , " in the subtraction of the sub-ambulacral nerve-system from certain pinnules and arms of Oomatulidse , entirely confirms the conclusions which I drew from my artificial induction of the same physiological condition .
For it is , of course , impossible that their oral nerve-ring can minister to the general sensori-motor actions of arms and pinnules which receive no radial extensions of it ; and yet the character of those actions ( as I have already pointed out ) so distinctly indicates their dependence on the originating and co-ordinating power of a nerve-centre , and on the internuncial power of nerve-cords , that we must seek elsewhere for a nervous mechanism on which they depend .
Those who deny that this can be furnished by the axial cords , by the dorsal centre from which they radiate ( with the remarkable annular commissure on its primary trunks ) , and by their minute ramifications * See Dr. P. Herbert Carpenter 's Memoir on the genus Actinometra , m iC Linnsean Transactions , " New Series , yoI .
ii , Zoology , p. 36 .
1884 .
] On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
in the muscular bundles and perisomatic surface , have to account for these two facts in the ordinary life-history of uninjured animals:\#151 ; first , the immediate and consentaneous contraction of the hundreds ( or thousands ) of arm-muscles in Antedon , called forth by irritation of the oral pinnules ; and , secondly , the performance of swimming movements as regular as those of Antedon , by the non-tentaculated arms of Actinometrse\#151 ; notwithstanding the absence , in both cases , of what is affirmed to be their sole nervous supply .
Thus , while the doctrine that the remarkable sensori-motor endowments of the Orinoidea depend upon their ventral nervous system , consisting ( as in Asterida and Ophiurida ) of an oral ring with radial branches , is supported only by a theoretical homology , it is in direct contradiction to the following facts :\#151 ; 1 .
The absence of any branches from the sub-ambulacral nerves to the muscular apparatus of Crinoidea generally .
2 .
The absence of sub-ambulacral nerves from those pinnules of Antedon which are most distinguished by their sensory endowments .
3 .
The absence of sub-ambulacral nerves from a large proportion of the arms of Actinometrse , which , nevertheless , take their full share in the co-ordinated swimming movements of those animals .
4 .
The continued performance of these movements by Antedons from which the whole visceral mass , including the oral ring , has been removed , and by arms whose sub-ambulacral nerves have been cut near their base .
On the other hand , the dependence of the general sensori-motor endowments of Crinoidea upon what I have described as their dorsal nerve-system , is a doctrine which has been found to harmonise alike with every fact that the most careful and minute study of their organisation has brought to light , with the results of the " Experiments prepared for us by Nature " in the varieties of that organisation , and with those of such experiments upon the living animals as would be deemed conclusive in other cases .
It is opposed only by a theoretical homology , a preconceived notion of what Crinoids ought to be , * which was adopted ( as Dr. P. H. Carpenter has perti* Thus Baudelot , who was searching for the nervous system of the Crinoidea , and traced out the whole system of dorsal cords with their pentagonal commissure ( apparently in ignorance of what I had previously done ) , while remarking that " dans leur disposition aussi bien que dans leur structure ces parties offrent un analogic presque complete avec les cordons nerveux des autres HSchinodermes , " nevertheless affirms that " evidemment else n'appartiennent point au systeme nerveux .
" ( '* Archiv .
de Zool. Exper .
et Glen .
, " tome i , p. 211 .
) [ Since the above was written , Dr. P. H. Carpenter has drawn my attention to a recent paper by Dr. Weinberg on the Morphology of living Crinoids ( " Der Natur-historiker , " Mar.\#151 ; Jun. , 1883 , pp. 266\#151 ; 307 ) , in which Dr. P. H. Carpenter 's descriptions ( with illustrative figures ) of the muscular branches of the radial cords are treated as " suppositions j " while his account of the absence of tentacles , of the 74 Dr. W. B. Carpenter .
[ May 29,1 nently remarted ) without any sufficient knowledge of the anatomy | of this most interesting group .
Further , that this dorsal nerve- i system is the fundamental and essential sensori-motor apparatus of Crinoidea , and that their ventral nerve-system is secondary and accessory , is indicated by the universal presence of the former in every arm and pinnule , while the latter is frequently absent .
And that the function of this latter is limited to the control of the tentacular apparatus , appears probable from the constancy of its association with that apparatus ; being invariably present in those arms and pinnules which are provided with tentacles , and absent in those which are destitute of them .
In conclusion , I would remark that the question whether these axial cords do or do not constitute parts of the fundamental nervous system of Crinoidea , is one of far-reaching interest ; since it obviously affects our whole conception of the morphology of the group .
If I am right in my contention , the centre of the nervous system of the Crinoidea has its seat in that Stem which is the most distinctive feature of their structure .
For the quinquelocular organ that lies in Antedon within the centro-dorsal basin , is only an expansion of the soft axis which occupies the central canal that extends through the entire length of the stem ; repeating on a larger scale a similar dilatation that occurs at every node from which a circlet of cirri is given off .
And the radial skeleton of the stem , of the calyx , of the arms , and of the pinnules of a Crinoid , is even more completely built up on this elongated nerve-centre and its radial extensions , than is the longitudinally segmental skeleton of a Vertebrate animal upon its cranio-spinal axis , \#151 ; a consideration which must be constantly kept in view in any attempt to trace out the homologies of Crinoidea with other Echinodermata .
To myself it has always appeared that ambulacral epithelium , and of the ventral nerve , in a large proportion of the arms of Actinometra , is altogether ignored .
As Dr. Weinberg seems to justify his disbelief of Dr. P. H. Carpenter 's description , by his own failure , and that of Dr. Ludwig , to verify them on Antedon rosacea , it may be well for me to state that its accuracy has .been verified by careful examination of Dr. P. H. Carpenter 's preparations , not only by myself , but by many other experienced Microscopists in this country ; whilst , as already mentioned ( p. 71 , note ) , Professor Perrier has been led by his own independent investigations to accept my own and my son s statements as fully borne out by microscopical evidence .
As Dr. Weinberg , though he has had the opportunity of studying Antedon rosacea alive , and of thereby refuting my experimental results , if erroneous , refrains from discussing them , and as he also ignores the fact ( though vouched for by Ludwig ) that the ventral nerve is wanting in the peculiarly sensitive oral pinnules of Antedon , it seems as if his confidence in his theoretical Morphology blinds him to every fact which conflicts with this .
The complete confirmation of my experiments by Professor A. M. Marshall and Dr. Carl F. Jickeli ( see Addenda ) may perhaps render them worthy of his more serious consideration ( June 28 ) .
] 1884 .
] On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
75 they differ much more widely both from Asterida and Ophiurida , than those Orders differ from each other ; and while all recent researches tend to show that Crinoidea are closely allied to Blastoidea and probably to Cystidea , they bring into view their points of difference from all Echinoderms the aspect of whose mouths is downward , \#151 ; a distinction long since put forward by Leuckart as one of fundamental value .
It was pointed out nearly twenty years ago by Sir Wyville Thomson and myself , that the canalisation or non-canalisation of the calcareous segments of the Crinoidal skeleton , for the passage of the axial cords , affords a distinctive character by which its proper radial portion can be differentiated from the accessory pieces by which its arrangement is often complicated and obscured .
And the practical value of this character has been recognised by various students of the extinct types of the group , \#151 ; with this modification , that among the Paleocrinoids the axial cords often lie in grooves which have not closed-in to form canals , just as I have shown to be the case in Antedon at a certain stage of the development of the radials .
It is obvious that the morphological value of this character becomes much greater , if the axial cords are nerve-trunks which call into action the complicated muscular apparatus of the arms , than if they are to be regarded ( with Ludwig ) as merely unconsolidated portions of the general basis-substance of the calcareous skeleton .
Another point of interest\#151 ; Physiological rather than Morphological \#151 ; is the existence of a definite nervous system , possessed of great functional activity , which yet shows very little histological differentiation .
It can scarcely be doubted , I think , that there is here no definite distinction between ganglionic centres and nerve-trunks ; almost every part of the apparatus being probably capable of originating as well as of conducting .
The peripheral branches distributed to the perisome will , of course , be those by which sensory impressions will be received ; while the branches distributed to the muscles will be those which call forth their motor activity .
But that the axial cords of the arms are not mere conductors , seems proved by the performance of active spontaneous movements by arms which have been for several days detached from the body .
And the connexion of these cords with each other in the annular commissure and in the quinquelocular centre , would seem to have reference rather to the co-ordination of actions which would be otherwise independent , than to a derivation of nerve-power from either of those sources .
I cannot but think that I have now given sufficient reason why the question I have raised should be no longer ignored , but should be reconsidered in the light of the new facts and arguments I have adduced in support of my views .
Those who refuse to accept them , are bound , I think , either to disprove the facts , or to show that On the Nervous System of the Crinoidea .
[ May 29 , I my deductions from ttiem are unsound .
To assert that they are " evidently ' ' erroneous , is clearly an unscientific mode of disposing j of them , unworthy of any real lover of truth .
Addenda .
( June 11.)\#151 ; I am permitted by Prof. A. M. Marshall , of Owens College , to state that having , during a recent visit to Naples , repeated for himself at Dr. Dohrn 's Zoological Station the experiments which I performed there in 1876 upon the Nervous System of he found their results confirmatory of my own in every particular ; whilst he was farther led to assign an afferent as well as a motor function to the dorsal nerve-system , as I had myself been led to do by the absence of the ventral nerve in the aboral arms of Actinometrce .
Professor Marshall informs me that he hopes to publish an account of his experiments in the next number of the Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science .
( June 28.)\#151 ; I also learn from Prof. Marshall and my Son , that a further experimental confirmation of my conclusions has been recently published by Dr. Carl F. Jickeli of Jena.* Having investigated the subject four years ago at Trieste , he not only repeated and verified my experiments , but varied them by the use of electric stimulation .
He found that when this was applied to the ambulacra !
groove of a detached arm , it produced no effect ; but that if applied to the axial cord , it called the muscles of the arm and pinnules into contraction , so as to produce flexure , even though the arm had previously shown no signs of life .
If applied to the axial cord of a cirrus , electrical stimulation threw the cirrus into tetanic contraction .
Further , Dr. J. found that while the application of caustic , to the ambulacral groove of an arm had no effect in preventing the excitation of flexure by electric stimulation of the axial cord , the application of caustic to the axial cord itself caused a straightening of the arm and a cessation of its movements , as if by the killing of its nerve .
These results , says Dr. Jickeli , can be explained in no other mode than Dr. Carpenter 's ; and he further states that his histological examination of the axial cord has satisfied him of its nervous character .
In claiming to be the first , after my Son , who has publicly adopted my view , Dr. J. seems unaware that Professor Perrier has been led to accept it , by his study of the anatomical distribution of the pairs of branches given off from the axial cord .
( See note , p. 71 .
) W. B. C. The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursday , June 19 .
* tjber das Nervensystem und die Sinnesorgane der Comatula Mediterranean in " Zool. Anzeiger , " 7 Jahrgang , No. 170 , p. 346 .

