8 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
[ Janv 6- , IV .
" On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Heterangium Tilic ( Will .
) and Kaloxylon Hookeri .
" By Professor W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College and in the Victoria University .
Received December 1 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) Several years ago the author discovered the stems and branches of a remarkable plant in the Carboniferous beds at Burntisland , which he described in the volume of the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1873 , under the name of Heterang Grievii .
This plant displayed a central axis , in which was combined a curious mixture of cells and vessels .
These were surrounded by a vascular zone , with medullary rays , evidently a product of an investing cambium layer .
Outside this exogenous growth were a complex series of cortical layers , with various arrangements of vascular bundles going off to supply lateral appendages .
The indefatigable industry of my valuable auxiliaries , William Cash , Esq. , and Mr. Binns , of Halifax , have supplied a series of specimens which the author soon found to be a new species of Heterangium , to which he gives the name of Heterangium Tiliceoides .
Whilst the plant exhibits all the features of interest seen in H. Grievii , it has others peculiar to itself .
Its central axis corresponds closely with that of H. Grievii .
Its exogenous vascular or zylem zone is more fully developed than in the older species , but the most striking features are seen in new structures external to and developed by what has been a cambial zone .
The zylem consists of groups of vascular laminse , the inner ends of each of which groups so converge as to separate the vascular ring into a series of distinct bundles .
These are not only separated from each other by primary medullary rays , but as each of these latter passes outwards towards the cortex , it rapidly expands laterally , assuming , in transverse sections , a trumpet-shaped contour .
These are in fact true primary phloem rays , as fine as those seen in the shoots of the Lime tree ; hence the specific name of Tiliceoides given to the plant by the author .
Between these large phloem rays are clusters of phloem , the radial diameter of each of which is co-extensive with the zylem part of the bundle to which it belongs .
Each of the zylem-bundles is subdivided into minor groups of two or three vascular laminse , separated by secondary medullary rays , each of which latter can be traced as secondary phloem rays passing radially outwards through the phloem portion of each bundle .
The vessels seen both in the vasculo-medullary axis and in the exogenous zone are chiefly furnished with bordered 1887 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
\#163 ; pits , not confined , as in Conifers , to the sides of the vessels in contact with the medullary rays , but covering their entire circumference .
On examining tangential and radial sections of the phloem , it is found to contain numerous long narrow tubes , but which cannot be absolutely identified with either sieve tubes or with sclerous fibres .
In the outer bark numerous flat plates of coarse sclerous parenchyma pass horizontally outwards .
This feature is equally characteristic of Heterangium Grievii .
Various forms of lateral outgrowths are also described .
Further observations are recorded on the strncture of Kaloxylon Hoolceri , also originally described by the author from specimens obtained from collieries near Oldham , in 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 166 ( Part 1,1876 ) .
These specimens , though revealing the elegant arrangements , especially of its vascular structures , to which the plant owes its name , did not fully reveal the true structure of its cortex .
But soon after the publication of the memoir referred to , the author obtained from Halifax beautiful examples in which this defect was remedied .
These new specimens exhibited within a remarkable epidermal layer , a thick cortex , always abounding in narrow vertically elongated tubes , which appear to have been either gum or resin canals .
In some examples these are crowded together in remarkable numbers .
But the Halifax specimens exhibited other peculiarities .
In some of them the peripheral end of each of the five or six radiating vascular wedges , which are so characteristic of the plant , is furnished with a true phloem element .
In the larger proportion of the Halifax specimens the radiating exogenous extensions of the central vascular axis are wholly wanting , and , whilst in most of the specimens which possess these exogenous growths no cellular parenchyma appears amongst the vessels of that central axis , specimens are described which display a gradual development of such tissue in that position .
In some cases its amount almost equals the area occupied by the medullary vascular bundles .
Some of the latter examples give off rootlets from the exterior of the central vasculo-cellular axis , which pass directly outwards through the bark .
A further series of specimens is described , each of which contains vascular bundles , of which the transverse section is quadrangular , closely resembling the tetrarch bundles of many roots .
Tracing these bundles downwards through a number of examples which diminish in size until very minute ones are reached , we find evidence that these bundles developed centrifugally instead of centripetally .
Nevertheless the author inclines to the belief that these objects are true rootlets .
After pointing out the probability that the Lyginodendron Oldhamium previously described by him is , notwithstanding its exogenous mode of growth , a fern , of which Rachiopteris was the foliage , the author states that Mr. Kidston has supplied him with structureless specimens Presents .
[ Jan. 6 , preserved in shale , of Sphenopteris elegans , which display regular transverse ridges crossing their stems and branches , which seem to have been caused by the presence of bands of some hard substance , corresponding exactly with those seen in the outer bark of both the Heterangiums .
These , at all events , are the only examples of fossil Carboniferous plants , in which structures comparable with those of the Heterangium stems have been discovered .
It is not without significance that H. Grieviihas not only been found in the Westphalian deposits of Pith Yollmond , but a German locality has furnished Professor von Weiss , of Berlin , with specimens of Sphenopteris elegans , having the same kind of bark as those found in Scotland .
The author suggests that the Heterangiums may possibly have been ancestral forms , having exogenous stems and fern-like foliage , which may have bequeathed the former features to some of the modern Cycads , and the latter to the Ferns , the living Stangeria having retained some of the features of both .
Presents , January 6 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Yol .
YI .
No. 53 .
4to .
Baltimore1886 .
The University .
Berlin:\#151 ; K. P. Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungsberichte .
1-38 .
8vo .
Berlin 1886 ; Jacobi 's Gesammelte Werke .
Band IY .
4to .
Berlin 1886 ; Politische Correspondenz Friedrich 's des Grossen .
Band XIY .
Large 8vo .
Berlin 1886 .
The Academy .
Boston:\#151 ; Society of Natural History .
Memoirs .
Yol .
III .
Nos. 12-13 .
4to .
Boston 1886 ; Proceedings .
Yol .
XXIII .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Boston 1886 .
The Society .
Brussels:\#151 ; Academy Royale de Medecine de Belgique .
Bulletin .
Annee 1886 .
Tome XX .
Nos. 4-9 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1886 .
The Academy .
Academy Royale des Sciences .
Bulletin .
Annee 55 .
Nos. 4-10 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1886 .
The Academy .
Cambridge , Mass:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Yol .
XIII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1886 ; Annual Report of the Curator , 1885\#151 ; 86 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1886 .
The Museum .
Davenport:\#151 ; Academy of Natural Sciences .
Proceedings .
Yol .
IY .
8vo .
Davenport 1886 ; The Academy .
Gottingen :\#151 ; Kon .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Nachrichten .
1886 .
Nos. 6-15 .
8vo .
Gottingen .
The Society .
Halle:\#151 ; Yerein fur Erdkunde .
Mitteilungen .
1886 .
8vo .
Halle .
The Union .
Hamburg:\#151 ; Naturhistorisches Museum .
Bericht .
1885 .
8vo .
Hamburg 1886 .
The Museum .

