1872 .
] Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol .
January 25 ,1872 .
Sir JAMES PAGET , Bart. , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; 11 .
" The Absolute Direction and Intensity of the Earth 's Magnetic Force at Bombay , and its Secular and Annual Variations .
" By Charles Chambers , F.R.S. , Superintendent of the Colaba Observatory .
Received October 26 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) The observations discussed in this paper were taken at the Colaba Ob-i servatory during the years 1867 to 1870 , and consist of observations of j Dip , Declination , and Horizontal Intensity .
The principal results deduced j by the author from these observations are shown in the following statement:\#151 ; Magnetic element .
Epoch .
Value at epoch .
Value at common epoch , January 1st , 1869 .
Secular change .
Per annum .
Semiannual inequality .
Excess of April to September over mean of year .
Calculated probable error of a single weekly determination .
Declination Dip April 1 , 1868 Oct. 1 , 1868 April 1 , 1869 Jan. 1 , 1869 6 46 47 E. 19 ' 4'-2 8-0591 8-5264 0 48 36 E. 19 ' 4'-7 8-0581 8-5264 / / / +2 5 +r-9 +.0040 +.0059 / / +i +0'-3 .0000 +.0003 / / +20 +0'-25* + .0043* Horizontal Force .
Total Force In column 2 is entered the mean epoch to which the mean value of each element , entered in column 3 , corresponds .
The absolute observations were taken at a height of 38 feet above the ground ; and by comparing them with observations taken with differential instruments at a height of 6 feet above the ground , they are shown to in-I dicate distinctly a diminution of terrestrial magnetic action with increase of height , with respect both to secular variation of Declination and Hori-j zontal Force , and to diurnal inequality of Horizontal Force .
II .
uOn the Elimination of Alcohol .
" By A. Dupre , Ph. D. , Lecturer on Chemistry at Westminster Hospital .
Communicated by W. Odling , M.B. , F.R.S. Received November 16 , 1871 .
( Abstract .
) Obviously three results may follow the ingestion of alcohol .
All the alcohol may be oxidized and none be eliminated , or a portion only may be * In English units .
k 2 108 Dr. A. Dupre on the Elimination of Alcohol , [ Jan. 25 , oxidized and the rest be eliminated unaltered ; or , lastly , all may be elimi .
nated again unaltered .
Assuming the last to be the case , it would follow that , if a certain quantity of alcohol be taken daily , the amount eliminated would increase from day to day until , at last , the amount eliminated daily would equal the daily consumption , be this time 5 , 10 , or more days .
If , on the other hand , all the alcohol consumed is either oxidized or elimi-nated within 24 hours , no increase in the daily elimination will take place in consequence of the continuance of the alcohol diet .
Guided by these considerations , the author undertook two series of experiments , in which the amount of alcohol eliminated by both kidneys and lungs was carefully estimated .
The analytical processes employed are described in detail .
First series.\#151 ; After a total abstinence from alcohol for 11 days , the urine and breath were examined , after which , from the 12th to the 24th day , both inclusive , the author took 112 cub. centims. of brandy daily ( equal to 48-68 grms. absolute alcohol ) .
The urine and breath were examined on the 12th , the 18th , and the 24th day .
The urine was also examined during the 5 days following the cessation of the alcohol diet .
The analytical results obtained are given in a Table .
Second series.\#151 ; After having again abstained from the use of alcohol , in any shape , during 10 days , the author took 56 cub. centims. of brandy ( same as above ) at 10 a.m. on March the 29th .
The urine was collected for every 3 hours up to the 12th , from the 12th to the 24th hour , and during the next succeeding 2 days .
The alcohol eliminated in the breath was also estimated during the same intervals .
The analytical results are also arranged in a tabular form .
The results of both series may be summed up as follows :\#151 ; The amount of alcohol eliminated per day does not increase with the continuance of the alcohol diet ; therefore all the alcohol consumed daily must , of necessity , be disposed of daily ; and as it certainly is not eliminated within that time , it must be destroyed in the system .
The elimination of alcohol following the ingestion of a dose , or doses , of alcohol ceases in from 9 to 24 hours after the last dose has been taken .
1 The amount of alcohol eliminated , in both breath and urine , is a minute fraction only of the amount of alcohol taken .
In the course of these experiments , the author found that , after six weeks of total abstinence , and even in the case of a teetotaller , a substance is eliminated in the urine , and perhaps also in the breath , which , though apparently not alcohol , gives all the reactions ordinarily used for the detection of traces of alcohol , viz. it passes over with the first portions of the distillate , it yields acetid acid on oxidation , gives the emerald-green reaction with'bichromate of potassium and strong sulphuric acid , yields iodoform , and its aqueous solution has a lower specific gravity and a higher vapour tension than pure water .
The presence of a substance in human urine and the urine of various animals which yields iodoform , but is not alcohol , had already been discovered by M , Lieben , The quantity pre1872 .
] On Supersaturated Solutions of Glauber 's Salt .
109 sent in urine is , however , so small that the precise nature of this substance has not as yet been determined .
Finally , the author points out an apparent connexion between this substance and alcohol .
It was found that , after the elimination due to the ingestion of alcohol had ceased , the amount of this substance eliminated in a given time at first remained below the quantity normally excreted , and only gradually rose again to the normal standard .
A careful study of this connexion may perhaps serve to throw some light upon the physiological action of alcohol .
III .
" On the Action of Low Temperatures on Supersaturated Solutions of Glauber 's Salt .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1871 .
When a solution of the ordinary ten-atom hydrate of sodic sulphate , saturated at about 93 ' F. , its maximum point of solubility , is boiled and filtered into a clean flask , which , being closed , is left to cool to 40 ' and under , a modified or seven-atom hydrate is formed at the bottom of the solution ; this increases in quantity as the temperature falls , and passes into solution as the temperature rises ; and , so far , the observation is supposed to be complete .
But if a supersaturated solution of Glauber 's salt be reduced from ordinary atmospheric temperatures to low ones by means of a freezing-mixture of snow and salt , the results obtained are so remarkable that I venture to think a short statement of them may be worthy of a place in the * Proceedings , ' by way of addenda to Section II .
of my second paper " On Supersaturated Saline Solutions , " contained in the Philosophical Transactions for 1871 , page 59 .
A solution of one part Glauber 's salt in one of water was boiled and filtered into a two-ounce flask that had been previously filled with strong nitric acid and well rinsed with clean water .
The solution was again boiled in this flask , into which a thermometer was passed , the stem being surrounded by several turns of lamp-cotton , which served to close the flask as soon as it was removed from the source of heat .
Next day the flask was put into a freezing-mixture at about 15 ' F. The solution slowly sank to 19 ' , when there was an abundant deposit of crystals of a peculiar opaque white , not like the transparent octahedra that are thrown down when these solutions cool to 40 ' and under , but very much like the octahedral crystals formed during the cooling of a strong solution of sal-ammoniac .
There were tufts of regular octahedra and fern-like crystalline forms .
During their formation the thermometer rose to 26 ' .
The flask was now transferred to water at 48 ' , when the opaque-white crystals broke up into an amorphous woolly mass .
As the temperature of the solution rose to 40 ' , then for the first time the usual transparent octahedra of the anhydrous salt Jell down .
Next day the

