165 Observations upon Phagocytosis carried out by Means of Melanin to Ascertain more particularly whether the Opsonic Index is Identical with the Hcemopliagocytic Index .
By S. G. Shattock and Leonard S. Dudgeon .
( Communicated by Professor J. Rose Bradford , For .
Sec. R.S. Received December 21 , 1907 , \#151 ; Read February 6 , 1908 .
) ( From the Pathological Laboratories , St. Thomas 's Hospital .
) The following work was taken up in the belief that interesting information might be obtained by the substitution of a finely divided inert substance in place of bacteria , wherewith to study the phagocytic index in particular infective diseases .
The substance which we selected was melanin obtained from the eye of the ox .
The questions which we set ourselves to test by this method we may put seriatim ; and we may , after each , recount the particular observations bearing upon it , and give the conclusions to be drawn from them .
Question 1.\#151 ; Will an increased phagocytosis of melanin take place if melanin is added to the blood of a patient suffering from an infective disease , as compared with normal blood ; or if melanin is presented to normal washed leucocytes in an immune serum , as compared with a normal serum ?
To give first the results of the simpler of these two observations .
The method consisted in drawing up 1 volume of blood into the capillary end of a pipette , and , immediately after this , 1 volume of citrated salt solution ( 1 per cent , sodium citrate , 9 per cent , salt ) , and thirdly 1 volume of melanin , suspended in salt solution .
The three volumes were discharged from the tube by means of a rubber teat fixed to the wider end , mixed in a watch glass in the usual way , and finally drawn up the capillary portion of the pipette , the fine end of which was then sealed in the flame , and the pipette laid horizontally in the incubator at 37 ' C. for 20 minutes ; the blood film was thereupon prepared as already described .
In our later observations we simplified this technique by using only two volumes : viz. , 1 volume of blood and 1 volume of melanin suspended in citrated salt solution , instead of in simple salt .
Summary and Conclusions drawn from the Observations made to Test the First Part of Question ( 1 ) .
In a Ltotal of 32 cases , the phagocytic index is below par in 8 ; at par in 7 ; and above par in 17 , ascending to 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , and even 8 .
O 2 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , It might be at first assumed that the heightened , index showed that the increased phagocytosis is due to the presence of a cytotropic substance exclusively , seeing that melanin , not being bacterial , cannot ( so it might be supposed ) be susceptible to the action of a bacteriotropic or opsonic substance .
This , however , is not the case .
The proof of this we will adduce later on , but briefly it consists in this , viz. , that an immune serum can be largely \#166 ; deopsonised by means of melanin if the latter is used to saturation .
And if melanin can deopsonise , it can only do so by becoming opsonised .
We believe that in both cases the result so obtained is mechanical ; the finely divided substance , though inert , entangling or becoming invested with the still more finely particulate material , of which the opsonin would thus appear to consist .
In the six following observations , the ordinary method of estimating the opsonin index was carried out , i.e. , normal washed leucocytes were used : ( 1 ) in normal serum ; ( 2 ) in the patient 's serum .
The cases comprised:\#151 ; Acute pneumonia , lymphangitis , pneumonia , acute pneumonia with pleural effusion , urinary fever ( colon bacillus infection ) , empyema .
Remarks on the Six Foregoing Observations .
The index in the third and fourth cases was taken by Wright 's method , and also by the simpler one of using normal blood against the blood of the patient .
The index obtained by the second method is in both cases higher , being 1*2 , as compared with 1 ; and 4*7 as compared with 1 .
Question 2.\#151 ; Will saturation of an immune serum with melanin remove the \#166 ; " opsonin " and reduce the phagocytosis of normal cells against either the bacillus or a suspension of melanin , or against both ?
That is to say , how far are " opsonisation " and " deopsonisation " strictly specific ?
In the following observation the action of the patient 's cells in the presence of melanin is compared in the patient 's serum , and in the patient 's serum after saturation with melanin .
The serum was digested with a thick suspension of melanin for 2\ hours , at 37 ' C. Case.\#151 ; Acute appendicitis ; peritonitis ; due to B. coli .
1 vol. of the patient 's washed cells ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 " " serum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 vol. of the patient 's washed cells ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 " " serum after saturation with melanin ... 1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
The phagocytosis was reduced to nearly one-third .
50 cells contained 68 granules .
50 cells contained 28 granules .
1907 .
] Observations upon Phagocytosis .
Case.\#151 ; Pulmonary tuberculosis ; untreated with tuberculin .
A. 1 vol. of normal washed cells ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... -i 50 cells 1 " patient 's serum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
\gt ; contained 1 " tubercle bacilli ( in 1*5 salt solution ) ... ... ... J 155 bacilli .
Serum of patient saturated with thick suspension of tubercle bacilli ; digested for 4^ hours , at 37 ' C. , and centrifuged .
( i ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid thus obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... ... 1 " tubercle bacilli ... ... .
50 cells contained 46 bacilli .
( ii ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid thus obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... 1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 cells contained 2 granules .
B. 1 vol. of normal washed cells 1 " patient 's serum ... ... .
1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... 50 cells contained 22 granules .
Serum of patient saturated with thick suspension of melanin ; digested for 4^ hours , at 37 ' C. , and centrifuged .
( i ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid thus obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... 1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 cells contained 5 granules .
( ii ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid thus obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... .
1 , , tubercle bacilli ... ... .
50 ceJls contained 113 bacilli .
Case.\#151 ; Pulmonary tuberculosis ; untreated with tuberculin .
A. 1 vol. of normal washed cells ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 " patient 's serum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 " tubercle bacilli ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
i 50 cells contained 170 bacilli .
Serum of patient saturated with an equal portion of a very thick suspension of tubercle bacilli in 1'5-per-cent .
salt solution ; digested for 2\ hours , at .
37 ' C. , and centrifugalised .
( i ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid so obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... ... . .
1 " tubercle bacilli ... ... ... .
50 cells contained 13 bacillL ( ii ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid so obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... ... 1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 cells contained 5 granules .
1 vol. of normal washed cells 1 " patient 's serum ... .
1 " melanin ... ... ... . .
50 cells contained 18 granules .
Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , Serum of patient saturated with a very thick suspension of melanin ; digested for 2\#163 ; hours , at 37 ' C. , and centrifugalised .
( i ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid so obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... . .
1 " melanin ... ... ... ... ... ... .
( ii ) 1 vol. of the clear fluid so obtained 1 " normal washed cells ... . .
1 " tubercle bacilli ... ... ... .
} 50 cells contained 6 granules .
50 cells contained 56 bacilli .
Summary and Conclusions from the foregoing Group of Observations .
In Observation 1.\#151 ; The saturation with melanin of the immune serum from a case of acute peritonitis reduced the phagocytosis ( using normal cells ) from 68 granules of melanin to 28 granules .
This result shows that a large amount of opsonin has been removed by the melanin , the phagocytosis being reduced to 1/ 3 .
In Observation 2.\#151 ; Pulmonary tuberculosis , untreated with tuberculin , when the serum was saturated with melanin the phagocytosis ( using normal cells ) was reduced from 22 granules of melanin to 5 granules , showing that a large amount of deopsonisation towards melanin had been brought about ; the opsonin was reduced to 1/ 4 .
Towards tubercle bacilli the phagocytosis ( using normal cells ) in the patient 's serum wras 155 bacilli in 50 cells .
After saturation with tubercle bacilli the phagocytosis was reduced to 46 bacilli .
How far did the saturation with tubercle bacilli reduce the phagocytosis of melanin ?
The phagocytosis of melanin was reduced from 22 granules to 2 after saturation of the serum with tubercle bacilli , i.e. , the opsonin was reduced to 1/ 11 .
How far did the saturation with melanin reduce the phagocytosis towards tubercle bacilli ?
The reduction here is from 155 to 113 .
This is considerably less than will appear from the following observation :\#151 ; In Observation 3.\#151 ; The serum used was from a case of pulmonary tuberculosis , untreated with tuberculin .
When the serum was saturated with melanin the phagocytosis ( using normal cells ) was reduced from 18 granules of melanin to 6 granules , showing that a large amount of deopsonisation towards melanin had been brought about .
As in the preceding observation the opsonin was reduced to 1/ 3 .
Towards tubercle bacilli the phagocytosis ( using normal cells ) in the patient 's serum was 170 bacilli in 50 cells .
After saturation with tubercle bacilli the phagocytosis was reduced to 13 bacilli .
How far did the saturation with tubercle bacilli reduce the phagocytosis of Observations upon Phagocytosis .
1907 .
] melanin ?
The phagocytosis of melanin was reduced from 18 granules to 5 granules after saturation of the serum with tubercle bacilli .
As it was reduced after saturation with melanin from 18 to 6 , the reduction is the same ; i.e. , the tuberculous serum is deopsonised towards melanin , equally by saturation with tubercle bacilli and with melanin .
How far did the saturation with melanin reduce the phagocytosis towards tubercle bacilli ?
The reduction here is from 170 to 56 .
It will be noticed that the proportion here is very nearly the same as the reduction in phagocytosis towards melanin after saturation with melanin ; the phagocytosis is reduced to 1/ 3 .
Although the fall is only from 170 to 56 as compared with that from 170 to 13 ( after saturation with tubercle bacilli ) , it is clear , nevertheless , that a large amount of the '\#163 ; tubercular opsonin " has been removed by the melanin ; and to this extent the opsonin is not specific to the tubercle bacillus.* As already observed the fact than an immune serum can be deopsonised by means of melanin shows that melanin can be opsonised .
The opsonisation and deopsonisation are probably in this case mechanical , the finely divided melanin , though inert , entangling or becoming invested with the still more finely particulate material of which the opsonin would thus appear to consist .
Question 3.\#151 ; Will heating an immune serum reduce the phagocytosis towards a suspension of melanin in the same way that it is known to do towards a suspension of a bacterium causing a disease ?
The serum in the four following observations was heated at 60 ' C. for 10 minutes:\#151 ; Cases : Erysipelas , acute pleurisy , streptococcus pyaemia , erysipelas .
Summary and Conclusions from the Observations made to Test the Preceding Question .
The observations show clearly that the phagocytosis of normal cells is greatly reduced towards melanin , in immune serum that has been heated , as it is towards bacteria .
This is a corollary of the observations recorded under Question 1 , which * Muir and Martin ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May , 1907 ) conclude that there is present in an immune serum a specific or immune ( thermostable ) opsonin , and in addition a normal ( thermolabile ) opsonin .
The markedly increased phagocytosis of melanin in immune blood would , on such a view , imply that this was due solely to the increase of a " normal opsonin .
' In the efeopsonisation of an immune serum by melanin , the opsonin removed would be , on the same supposition , " normal , " however much increased in amount .
The authors cited show , indeed , that the thermolabile , " common , " or non-specific opsonin may be removed from the same immune serum by various different micro-organisms .
Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , show that in immune serum the phagocytosis of melanin may he largely increased , i.e. , that melanin is capable of being opsonised .
So , when opsonin is removed by heating the immune serum , the phagocytosis of normal cells is notably reduced .
The indices , commencing with that showing the least reduction , run :\#151 ; 0-67 , 0-23 , 0T6 , 016 .
Question 4.\#151 ; Will an increased phagocytosis of melanin take place if melanin is presented to the washed leucocytes of an immune blood in normal serum , as compared with normal washed leucocytes in normal serum ?
The cases selected comprised the following : acute erysipelas , chronic bone abscess , acute pneumonia , lymphangitis , streptococcal pysemia , acute cellulitis , acute peritonitis .
Of some of these more than one example was used .
Summary and Conclusions from the Observations made to test the Preceding Question .
In the case where melanin is presented to normal washed cells and to the patient 's washed cells , both in normal , the phagocytosis is , in some , below par ; in others , above ; in others , at par .
The indices run :\#151 ; 0-46 , 0-7 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 11 , 1-4 , 1-5 , 1-6 , 1-8 , 2-9 .
Question 5.\#151 ; Will the phagocytosis be the same if melanin is presented to the washed cells of the patient , and to washed normal cells , in immune serum ?
In the following experiments , the action of normal cells and patient 's cells was tested in the patient 's serum .
Case.\#151 ; Streptococcus pyogenes pyaemia .
Index ... ... 17 .
Case.\#151 ; Acute pneumonia ; 5th day of disease ; male , set .
23 ; temperature 103 ' F. Index ... ... 3-3 .
In each of these observations , the work done by the patient 's cells is greater than that done by normal cells , the indices being 1*7 , 3'3 .
In the four following observations , the phagocytosis of leucocytes from different cases of Bacillus coli infection , in the same immune serum is set forth , as compared with that of normal cells in the same immune serum .
The immune serum was from a case of bone abscess in which the colon bacillus was present .
The patient had been treated with anti-serum and also with vaccine .
Case.\#151 ; B. coli infection of the urinary tract ; treated with anti-coli serum and with vaccine .
Index ... ... 0'9 .
1907 .
] Observations upon Phagocytosis .
Case.\#151 ; Bone abscess in which B. coli was present ; treated with anti-coli serum and with vaccine .
Index ... ... 1 .
Case.\#151 ; Acute appendicitis ; treated with anti-coli serum and with vaccine .
Index ... ... . .
1'2 .
Case.\#151 ; Acute peritonitis ; treated with anti-coli serum .
Index ... ... 4 .
The indices in these observations run :\#151 ; 0-9 , 1 , 1-2 , 2-4 .
In the last of them the 'patient 's cells are doing considerably more work than normal cells in the same immune serum .
In the three following observations , the cells from a standard case of acute pneumonia were tested against normal cells in immune sera from cases of different disease :\#151 ; Case.\#151 ; Empyema .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's ( empyema ) serum , 1 " melanin .
1 vol. of washed standard pneumonia cells 1 " patient 's ( empyema ) serum , 1 " melanin .
Index ... ... .
1'3 .
Case.\#151 ; Urinary fever ( B. coli infection ) .
" 1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's ( urinary fever ) serum , 1 " melanin .
1 vol. of washed standard pneumonia cells , 1 " patient 's ( urinary fever ) serum , 1 " melanin .
Index ... ... . .
1'7 .
Case.\#151 ; Acute pneumonia .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's ( pneumonia ) serum , 1 " melanin .
1 vol. of washed standard pneumonia cells ( from another patient ) , 1 " patient 's ( pneumonia ) serum , 1 .
, melanin .
Index ... ... . .
6'5 .
In all these three observations , it will be seen that the washed pneumonia cells are doing more work than washed normal cells in the immune serum of three different patients , the most marked difference being that where pneumonia serum was selected .
Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , The indices run :\#151 ; 1-3 , 1-7 , 6-5 .
In the following observations , the action of normal cells and patient 's cells , from a case of acute general peritonitis , was tested in the serum of another patient suffering from chronic pulmonary tuberculosis .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " tuberculous serum , 1 " melanin .
1 vol. of patient 's washed cells ( acute peritonitis ) , 1 " tuberculous serum , 1 " melanin .
Index ... ... 1*4 .
This observation , like the three that precede it , shows that the washed cells , from a case of acute infection , are more active that normal cells , in the serum of a patient suffering from another disease , the index being 1*4 .
In the two following observations , the action of normal washed cells is compared with the action of the patient 's washed cells , in the presence of melanin , in the patient 's serum , heated at 58 ' C. for 15 minutes .
Index ... ... 0*9 .
Case.\#151 ; Acute cellulitis of leg .
Index ... ... 2 .
In the two following observations , the action of norpial washed cells is compared with the action of standard-pneumonia cells , in the heated serum of two other patients .
Case.\#151 ; Acute pneumonia .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " heated pneumonia serum , 1 " melanin .
1 vol. of standard pneumonia washed cells ( i.e. , from another case of pneumonia ) .
1 " heated pneumonia serum , 1 " melanin .
Index ... ... 1 .
Case.\#151 ; Empyema .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " heated empyema serum , 1 " melanin .
1 vol. of standard pneumonia washed cells , 1 " heated empyema serum , 1 " melanin .
( Serum heated at 60 ' C. for 20 minutes .
) Index ... ... 1*6 .
1907 .
] Observations upon Phagocytosis .
In the following observation , the action of normal washed cells is compared with the action of the same standard pneumonia cells as used in the preceding observations , in normal heated serum .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " normal heated serum , 1 " melanin. .
1 vol. of standard pneumonia washed cells , 1 " normal heated serum , 1 " melanin .
Index ... ... 2 .
In the five preceding observations , in the first four of which washed normal cells were tested against washed immune cells in heated immune serum , and in the fifth in normal heated serum , the indices run :\#151 ; 0*9 , 1 , 1-6 , 2 , 2 .
In two the immune cells are doing more work than normal cells in the heated immune serum , and the same is true in the case of the heated normal serum .
In the following observations , colon bacilli were substituted for melanin , and the cells from a case of streptococcal puerperal fever , with multiple intramuscular and subcutaneous abscesses , were used in coli serum against normal cells in the same coli serum .
The patient from whom the cells were taken died within 48 hours after the blood was taken .
The blood was observed to be very watery when taken , and showed agglutination of the red cells .
Case.\#151 ; Urinary fever ; B. coli infection .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " " serum , 1 " colon bacilli .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's serum ( .
coli infection ) , 1 " colon bacilli .
Index ... ... 2'4 .
This index shows that the patient 's serum is markedly active , i.e. , it contains a good amount of an opsonin which will prepare the colon bacillus for ingestion .
Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , In the next place , the cells from a patient suffering from puerperal fever ( streptococcal ) were substituted for normal washed cells , thus :\#151 ; 1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's serum ( colon infection ) , 1 " colon bacilli .
1 vol. of washed cells of patient suffering from puerperal fever , 1 " patient 's serum ( colon infection ) , 1 " colon bacilli .
Index ... ... .
0'5 .
This observation indicates that , although in colon serum , colon bacilli , when presented to normal washed cells , may give a good index ( 2'3 ) , when presented in the same serum to the washed cells of another patient suffering from puerperal fever , the index fell to 0'5 .
This can only mean that the cells from the puerperal patient are incapable of carrying out the same amount of ingestion as normal cells in the same colon serum against the same colon bacilli , the cells cannot make use of the phagocytic opportunity offered to them .
Their decreased activity may be ascribed to damage sustained wThilst in the circulating blood , or to the exhaustion brought about by the forced production of antibodies under the same circumstances .
It may be inferred from these data that a low index ( as reached by the usual method ) might be found still lower were the patient 's cells used in the patient 's serum , in place of using normal cells in the patient 's serum against normal cells in normal serum .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " " serum , 1 " colon bacilli .
1 vol. of patient 's washed cells ( puerperal fever ) , 1 " normal serum , 1 " colon bacilli .
Index ... ... .
0'56 .
This extension of the foregoing observation shows that the cells from the same case of puerperal fever do only half the work in normal serum against colon bacilli which normal cells do in the same normal serum against colon bacilli .
This is the same proportion which was obtained by presenting : ( 1 ) Normal cells , and ( 2 ) The same patient 's cells , in the patient 's serum , where the patient 's cells are doing only half the work of normal cells .
In the following experiment , colon bacilli were substituted for melanin ; Observations upon Phagocytosis .
1907 .
] and the washed cells , from the same case of puerperal fever as the preceding , were tested against normal cells in the patient 's serum .
Case.\#151 ; Puerperal fever ; Streptococcus pyogenes ; death with pyaemia .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " " serum , 1 " colon bacilli .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's serum ( puerperal fever ) , 1 " colon bacilli ( not from patient ) .
Index ... ... .
0'8 .
1 vol. of normal washed cells , 1 " patient 's serum ( puerperal fever ) , 1 " colon bacilli ( not from patient ) .
1 vol. of patient 's washed cells ( puerperal fever ) , 1 " " serum , 1 " colon bacilli ( not from patient ) .
Index ... ... .
0'3 .
This observation shows that the patient 's cells ( streptococcal infection ) are less active in the patient 's serum , against colon bacilli , than are normal cells in the patient 's serum against colon bacilli .
The result corresponds closely with those which precede it , in which a colon serum was used in place of the above patient 's serum , but with the same puerperal patient 's cells .
Summary and Conclusions from the foregoing Croups of Observations placed under Question 5 .
In the observations where melanin was presented to normal washed cells and to a patient 's washed cells , in the patient 's own serum , or in the serum of another patient suffering from another infective disease , the indices run:\#151 ; 0-9 , 1 , 1-2 , 1-3 , 1-4 , 1-7 , 1-7 , 2-4 , 3*3 , 6'5 .
In heated immune serum , the washed immune cells against normal washed cells give indices of:\#151 ; 0-9 , 1 , 1-6 , 2 .
In heated normal serum , the index , in the single observation made , was 2 .
In the majority of the cases , the patient 's cells take up more melanin , or more bacilli , than do normal cells in immune serum , whether the immune serum be that of the patient or that of another patient suffering from another infective disease ; the higher indices run:\#151 ; 2-4 , 3-3 , 6-5 .
When the patient 's cells are compared with normal cells in normal serum , the indices range from 0'46 to 2-9 .
176 Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 2G The action of the patient 's cells would thus appear to be a factor which requires consideration if a full estimate of the patient 's hamiophagocytic resistance is to be arrived at .
Were the patient 's cells indifferent , normal cells would ingest to the same extent as the patient 's cells , in the patient 's serum .
This is not the case .
The patient 's cells may be less active , or they may he more active than the normal .
The conclusion to which the observations lead is that the calculation of the opsonic value of the patient 's serum alone does not give a full estimate of the patient 's haemophagocytic resistance .
It may be too high or too low , , or , as a coincidence , it may exactly represent it .
In what may this greater activity of the patient 's cells consist ?
The greater activity might be ascribed to an elaboration and excretion of opsonin by the patient 's leucocytes in the patient 's serum , which brings about a still further increased preparation of melanin in the already opsonised serum .
This would mean that the patient 's leucocytes , instead of playing only the secondary part of ingesting prepared bacteria , both prepare and then ingest them .
To gauge the curative capacity of the patient 's serum only , the method in commoner use is doubtless the correct one , for normal cells are used in the patient 's serum against normal cells in normal serum .
But the question may be raised whether the action of the patient 's cells should be considered .
For if their greater activity is due only to a further secretion of opsonin , in observations carried out in vitro , it may be urged that this exalted phagocytic index does not represent that of the circulating blood , but is too high .
The patient 's cells are transferred to the patient 's serum in relatively abnormal numbers , and , during the 20 minutes ' incubation , they may be elaborating from the patient 's serum a further amount of opsonin which overcharges the serum in the capillary tube and brings about a fictitious degree of phagocytosis .
If any substance continues to be produced in the serum , vitro , it must be an opsonin .
It cannot be a substance that would stimulate the cells to greater activity : we cannot suppose that the cells produce and shed into the serum a " stimulin " in order to stimulate themselves !
The patient 's cells produce a further amount of opsonin , or they are simply " more active " than are normal cells .
One must remember that the process of thrice washing the cells in salt solution does not wash out the leucocyte , it only washes the surface of it .
One difficulty that arises in testing the alternatives just stated will be obvious :\#151 ; During the process of incubation , vitro , two phenomena may be proceeding simultaneously : the cells may be simply ingesting , or they Observations upon Phagocytosis .
1907 .
] may be producing opsonin and ingesting .
If the phagocytosis increases upon allowing further time , it has to be determined whether this is due to further opsonification , or simply to the fact that the cells are allowed a longer time in which to work .
And even the termination of further phagocytosis , after an extreme time-allowance , might mean equally either a termination of further opsonin production , or that the cells had taken up all for which they had capacity .
Our observations bring out that the immune or active cells , as compared with normal cells , although they usually do more work in both immune and in normal serum , do more in the immune than in the normal .
This points to some interaction between the patient 's cells and the patient 's serum ; it indicates that there is something in the patient 's serum which is in excess , or which is not present , in normal serum .
If we agree to call this " something " a stimulin , its presence will not , per se , account for the difference .
For such a substance would equally stimulate the normal cells to do the same amount of work as the immune cells in the immune serum\#151 ; which is not the case .
In heated immune serum , again , the immune cell does more work than the normal : so that , whether the substance left in the serum after heating is specifically bacteriotropic and unable to affect the melanin or cytotropic ( stimulin ) , it is clear that the immune cells behave differently from the normal .
We are led to hold , therefore , that the immune cell , as a cell , is in many cases more active , more irritable , or more sensitive , than the normal , , as it may be less active than the normal cell , or active to the same degree .
The immune cell has acquired a heightened activity in the body in response to the increased function demanded of it to cope with the infective process ; its full reserve power has been called out .
The fact that more phagocytosis occurs in immune serum with immune cells than with normal cells indicates that , in the living body , from a similar interaction , the patient 's cells are likewise doing more work than would normal cells , if we imagined , e.g. , the whole of the patient 's leucocytes suddenly replaced in his own plasma by normal cells .
Question 6.\#151 ; Is opsonin produced , in vitro , by the patient 's cells in the patient 's serum ?
The only thing that would vitiate the foregoing conclusion would be evidence of an additional formation of opsonin , vitro , during the 20 minutes in which the capillary tube containing the immune serum , the immune cells , and the melanin , or bacilli , was being incubated .
It is conceivable that the immune serum contains a precursory substance \#151 ; an opsinogen\#151 ; which is converted into opsonin by a ferment produced by the cells , and that the increased phagocytosis of immune cells in immune Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , serum is due to their greater secreting activity , to their increased production of the converting substance ; and that when melanin or bacteria are presented in vitro , this interaction is set going , or , rather , restarted in the drawn blood .
Observation .
Case.\#151 ; Empyema .
1 vol. of blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of melanin .
Four tubes were prepared , and incubated for different periods , with the following results:\#151 ; 15 minutes 1 hour 21 y. 2 hours 36 y 4 " 76 Y\gt ; In such an observation it is impossible to determine whether the progression is due to further formation of opsonin or to the increased time allowed for the continuance of phagocytosis .
When bacteria are used in place of melanin , this progression may be more highly pronounced , as is shown in the three following observations:\#151 ; Case.\#151 ; Acute cellulitis ; temperature , 102 ' F. 1 vol. of patient 's blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 20 minutes ... ... ... 50 cells contained 126 bacilli .
1 vol. of patient 's blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 30 minutes ... ... ... 50 cells contained 195 bacilli .
Case.\#151 ; Urinary infection due to colon bacillus ; untreated with anti-serum or vaccine .
1 vol. of patient 's blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 20 minutes ... ... ... 50 cells contained 115 bacilli .
1 vol. of patient 's blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 30 minutes ... ... ... 50 cells contained 165 bacilli .
Case.\#151 ; Urinary infection due to colon bacillus ; treated with anti-serum and vaccine .
1 vol. of patient 's blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 20 minutes ... ... ... 50 cells contained 116 bacilli .
1 vol. of patient 's serum , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 30 minutes ... ... ... 50 cells contained 196 bacilli .
1907 .
] Observations upon Phagocytosis .
It is worth while to notice that such a progression does not necessarily occur under the same conditions of experiment .
Observation .
Case.\#151 ; Suppuration of thumb .
1 vol. of blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of melanin .
Four tubes were prepared , and incubated for different periods , with the following results:\#151 ; 15 minutes ... ... ... ... .
31 granules of melanin in 50 cells .
30 , , 28 , , , , 1 hour ... ... ... ... ... .
29 " " 2 hours ... ... ... ... ... .
31 " " Here it may be inferred that the immune cells were of lowered activity .
This we know to be so in some cases , where they do less work in their own immune serum than do normal cells .
Observation .
Normal Blood.\#151 ; In the case of normal blood , a slight progression in phagocytosis may be observed 1 vol. of normal blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of melanin .
Four tubes were prepared , and incubated for different periods , with the following results:\#151 ; 15 minutes ... ... ... ... 18 granules of melanin in 50 cells .
30 " 16 , , " 1 hour ... ... ... ... ... 26 " " 2 hours ... ... ... ... ... 31 " " Here , again , the progression might be due to a further formation of opsonin , or to the further time allowed for the process of ingestion .
The progressive phagocytosis in normal blood is more forcibly shown in the following observation , where colon bacilli are used in place of melanin:\#151 ; 1 vol. of normal blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 20 minutes ... ... . .
50 cells contained 151 bacilli .
1 vol. of normal blood , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
Incubated 30 minutes ... ... .
50 cells contained 399 bacilli .
In considering whether the index obtained by using immune cells in immune serum , in vitro , correctly represents the phagocytic resistance of the patient 's vol. lxxx.\#151 ; B. p Messrs. S. G. Shattock and L. S. Dudgeon .
[ Dec. 21 , blood , i.e. , of his serum and his cells , as distinguished from the resistance brought about by his serum alone , the question with which we are essentially concerned is whether a further formation of opsonin occurs vitro , or whether the work done by the cells is done by means of the opsonin which was present in the blood when the latter was drawn .
We endeavoured to determine this by means of the following experiments :\#151 ; One volume of washed immune cells was thoroughly mixed with one volume of immune serum , using larger volumes than usual .
The mixture was then drawn up into three capillary tubes of the usual calibre , and incubated for 20 minutes , 30 minutes , and 1 hour .
At the end of these intervals , an equal volume of citrated salt suspension of living colon bacilli was added to the contents of each capillary tube , mixed , and each tube then incubated for 20 minutes .
By this means , a full supply of active immune cells was allowed to act in immune serum for different periods ( without the presence of bacilli ) ; the phagocytosis was then tested in each case after the same time-allowance , viz. , 20 minutes .
Case.\#151 ; Colon infection of urinary tract ; treated with anti-serum and vaccine .
1 vol. of immune washed cells and immune serum , incubated 20 minutes , 1 " citrated salt suspension of colon bacilli .
50 cells contained 73 bacilli after 20 minutes ' incubation .
1 vol. of immune washed cells and immune serum , incubated 30 minutes , 1 " citrated suspension of colon bacilli .
50 cells contained 74 bacilli after 20 minutes ' incubation .
1 vol. of immune washed cells and immune serum , incubated 1 hour , 1 " citrated suspension of colon bacilli .
50 cells contained 81 bacilli , after 20 minutes ' incubation .
Summary and Conclusions from the foregoing Group of Observations .
It will be evident from the concluding observation that no difference in phagocytosis is brought about within 20 minutes , in different samples of the same immune serum , mixed with the immune cells from the same patient , when bacilli are presented , after periods of incubation of 20 minutes , 30 minutes , and 1 hour : the numbers of bacilli ingested by 50 cells , being:\#151 ; 73 , 74 , 81 .
This crucial experiment proves that the marked difference in the phagocytosis observed when bacilli are added to immune blood , and incubated for different periods , must be attributed , not to further opsonificaObservations upon Phagocytosis .
1907 .
] tion of the serum , but to the increased time allowed for the cells in which to ingest .
The practical conclusion we draw is , that in order to estimate the full phagocytic resistance of the patient 's blood , the cells should be taken into account as well as the serum .
The method of making such an estimate is considerably simpler and much more rapid than the estimation of the opsonic value of the serum only , which entails washing normal cells and collecting blood in order to obtain both normal serum and the serum of the patient .
It is merely necessary to draw up 1 volume of the patient 's blood and 1 volume of citrated salt suspension of the micro-organism to be used , into the capillary tube , to mix , incubate for 20 minutes , spread the film , and compare the phagocytosis with that of a volume of normal blood similarly treated , \#151 ; a slight modification of the technique practised by Leishman .
The washed corpuscles , moreover , sometimes tend to cohere in clumps .
The central cells of such clusters would fail to reach bacilli presented in the fluid .
This is probably one explanation of the discrepancies obtained in the numeration of ingested bacilli , even in neighbouring fields of the same slide .
It has been pointed out elsewhere in this communication that although the action of the immune phagocyte is usually higher than that of the normal cell , yet it may be lower , or it may be equal to it .
The cells vary in value , like the serum , and the only method of arriving at a correct estimate of the patient 's hceruophagocytic resistance is to allow the immune cells to work in the immune serum .
By the method more commonly employed in this country , too low an index is obtained if the patient 's cells are acting above the normal level , and too high an index if they are acting below it .

