78 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ June 19 , June 19,1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor George Johnston Allman , Professor Isaac Bay ley Balfour , Dr. James Bell , Professor John G. McKendrick , Dr. Arthur Ransome , Professor Arthur William Rttcker , Mr. Joseph John Thomson , and Colonel Sir Charles Warren were admitted into the Society .
The President read the following letter which had been received in acknowledgment of the Memorial agreed to by the Society at their meeting on April 3rd Whitehall , 30th April , 1884 .
Sib , I have had the honour to lay before the Queen the loyal and dutiful Address of the Royal Society of London for Improving Natural Knowledge , on the occasion of the death of His Royal Highness Prince Leopold , the Duke of Albany , K.G. , and I have the satisfaction to inform you that Her Majesty was pleased to receive the Address very graciously .
( Signed ) W. V. Harcourt .
The President of the Royal Society .
The Bakerian Lecture\#151 ; " Experiments on the Discharge of Electricity through Gases : Sketch of a Theory " \#151 ; was delivered by Dr. Schuster , F.R.S. The following Papers were read I. " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Mammalia .
Part II : Edentata .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) My former paper on the structure and development of the mammalian skull was published in the " Philosophical Transactions " in 1874 ; it was on that of the Pig .
1884 .
] On the Skull in the Mammalia .
Since then , whilst gathering fresh and fresh mammalian materials , the greater part of my actual work has been on the.skull of the other ( j|fliS8G8 .
There have been two reasons for this : first , the difficulty of obtaining subjects for dissection , and then the fact that the mammalian skull is the most difficult of interpretation , and asks for an interpreter who is quite familiar with that of more simple types .
Now , I hope to take up Order after Order of this , the highest group of the Vertebrata .
Of course this will employ me for many years to come .
I would , if it were possible , take the lowest types first , namely , the Monotremes or " Prototheria , " but this cannot be done .
Even the Marsupials or " Metatheria " will have to come after the Insectivora , that is , they will be treated of in the next paper but one .
I am not of opinion that this irregular way of working has any harm in it ; when once the facts have been gathered and arranged the mind will be able to draw its deductions ; if the garners be but full , a little irregularity in the harvesting will not count for much .
The materials for the present paper have taken me more than twenty years to collect .
Hearty thanks are due to those friends* who have helped me according to their power .
I have worked out the skull in several embryos of the Armadillos , these belong to two genera and three species .
In the Bradypodidse ( Sloths ) I have had two stages of the embryo , and two of the young , these belong to two genera and three species .
In the Anteater ( Oycloturus)I have worked out the skull in two young specimens ; in the Pangolins ( Manidse ) in an early and a latter embryo , in the new-born young , and in the adult ; and in Orycteropus in the nearly ripe embryo .
I now offer , in the main paper , the results of this piece of research ; this has not been done , however , until much more of the same kind of work has been either finished or got well in hand , as I am anxious for the structure of the skull in the various orders to have become familiar to me for the sake of comparison , expressed or unexpressed .
I have come to the conclusion that the Edentata are nearer of kin to the Monotremata than to the Marsupialia , and that if they did , as indeed they must have done , pass through a Metatherian , or Marsupial stage , they did not utilise it but ran through it in an abbreviated pre-natal stage .
Of course the remarkable modification of their jaws , due to abortion , and in some cases complete suppression , of their teeth , * Professors Mower and Miyart , Drs. Gunther and Sclater , and H. M. Ward , Esq. , F.Z.S. 80 Mr. W. K. Parker .
[ June 19 , j is that which makes these forms so abnormal to the morphologist , as well as to the zoologist .
As it happens , the most primitive form of Mammalia existing , the Prototheria ( Ornithorhynchus and Echidna ) are also abnormal on the same account , and thus the best standard , existing , by which to measure the height of the platform on which we find the Edendata , is not itself normal , or straight , or perfect .
Now none of the Metatheria or Marsupials have suffered from this kind of degenerative specialisation ; they , therefore , come in well as standards of measurement and comparison for the .
Insectivora , next above them , but are of little use here among the Edentata .
Professor Flower , after working out the general anatomy of this group ( " Proc. Zool. Soc. , " 1882 , pp. 358\#151 ; 367 ) , has come to the conclusion that the Edentata of the Old World have little to do with those of the New .
That sounds like a hard saying to one not familiar with the structure of the group ; it did so to me , no long time since , although what I had done at the group , long ago , went to prove the same thing ; now , however , I am quite satisfied of the truth of my friend 's deductions .
The Neotropical Edentata hold together much more than might have been expected .
The Armadillos are the most isolated ; but much as the Aard-Yark of the Cape looks like an archaic Armadillo without armour , he is not more than a very distant relative of the modern firmed Armadillos .
Indeed , the curious coincidence that I have found between the structure of the Aard-Yark and that of a large Insectivore from a contiguous region , namely , the Rhyn from Zanzibar , leads me to suspect that the Cape Anteater is an offshoot from the same ' stock , and is , indeed , the only Edentate that can be looked upon as probably arising originally from a Metatherian or Marsupial stock , like the Insectivora .
The other Paleeotropical Edentata\#151 ; the Pangolins\#151 ; are perhaps still more isolated than the Aard-Yark , but they have not comfi so near extinction , and are found in more than one continent of the Old World .
If the term Reptilian might be applied to characters seen in any Placental Mammal , it might to what I find in this .
This creature has most remarkable correspondences with the Reptilian group .
Of course , the scaly covering is merely mimetic of the Lizard 's scales , and is in reality made up of cemented hairs ; that may pass ; but not the structure of the sternum in some species , with its long " xiphisternal horns , " as in the Stellionidce , and the cartilaginous abdominal ribs , as in the Chameleons and some other kinds .
( See my memoir on the " Shoulder-girdle and Sternum , " Roy .
Soc. , 1868 , Plate 22 , fig. 13 .
) On the Skull in the Mammalia .
1884 .
] But the curious ornithic nasal bones , deeply cleft in front , the imperfect desmognathism of the palate , the feeble and segmented state of the anterior sphenoid , and the open pituitary space of the embryonic cartilaginous skull , all these things suggest that the Pangolins , whatever degenerative specialisation they may have undergone , never did rise to any height , as Mammals .
Indeedj to me , their pre-natal development\#151 ; the Eutherian placenta-tion\#151 ; seems to be their best title to be ranked even amongst the low forms of the high Mammalia .
If a complete series of fossil types could be found , on one hand stretching backwards ( or downwards ) from the Glyptodons , and on the other , from the Megatheroids , then long before these two groups merged into a common Prototherian root-stock , we should find their differences one by one dying out .
Embryology would help us here very much if materials could be obtained .
Even with the scanty treasures that I have been able to obtain , most remarkable things are shown .
Of the two Anteaters I have only been able to obtain the young ( not the embryo ) of the smallest and most aberrant type\#151 ; Gycloturus\#151 ; and of the Sloths only two embryos , and one of these considerably advanced , belonging to two genera , namely , and ( Arctopithecus , Gray ) .
But every step backward in the structure of the skull of the Sloth brings me nearer and nearer to what I see even in the young of the Little Anteater ; and that it is possible for both of these types to have arisen from the same stock is no longer a doubtful thing .
But the skull of developing embryos of the Sloth ( of either kind ) forms a very valuable and easy-working key to what is difficult in the skulls of the extinct gigantic Megatheroids .
If this be the case , if Sloths , extinct or recent , have arisen , during time , from the same stock as the great terrestrial Ant-bear , and the little prehensile-tailed Gycloturus , then there is nothing in any other Order to shock the mind or to be a stumbling block in the path of the most timid evolutionist .
That in the Armadillos the new husbandry , or growth , of hair\#151 ; \#151 ; the correlate of milk glands\#151 ; should thrive badly on the old stony ground of Reptilian horn-covered scales , breaking out where , it can among the clefts , is not more wonderful than that this same new growth of hair in the Pangolin should mat itself together and imitate the scales of Reptiles and Fishes .
I have in the summary to my main paper mentioned several of the most important cranial characters in the Edentata , and have endeavoured to show their signification .
These , however , have to be studied with the help of the illustrations , and need not be spoken of now .
Moreover , until the figures VOL. XXXVII .
U 82 Prof. Cayley .
On the [ June 19 , and descriptions of the skull in the Insectivora can be brought out , the present paper , as a whole , is somewhat imperfect for want of standards for comparison , such as are to be found in the more normal skulls to be seen in the animals of that Order .
II .
" On the Non-Euclidian Plane Geometry .
" By Professor Cayley , F.R.S. Received May 27 , 1884 .
1 .
I consider the hyperbolic or Lobatschewskian geometry : this is a geometry such as that of the imaginary spherical surface \amp ; 2+2/ 2+z2=\#151 ; 1 ; and the imaginary surface may be bent ( without extension or Contraction ) into the real surface considered by Beltrami , and which I will call the Pseudosphere , viz. , this is the surface of revolution defined by the equations log cot cos 0 , \gt ; A/ 2+\#171 ; 2= sin 6 .
We have on the imaginary spherical surface imaginary points corresponding to real points of the pseudosphere , and imaginary lines ( arcs of great circle ) corresponding to real lines ( geodesics ) of the pseudosphere , and , moreover , any two such imaginary points or lines of the imaginary spherical surface have a real distance or inclination equal to the corresponding distance or inclination on the pseudosphere .
Thus the geometry of the pseudosphere , using the expression straight line to denote a geodesic of the surface , is the Lobatschewskian geometry ; or rather I would say this in regard to the metrical geometry , or trigonometry , of the surface ; for in regard to the descriptive geometry , the statement requires ( as will presently appear ) some qualification .
2 .
I would remark that this realisation of the Lobatschewskian geometry sustains the opinion that Euclid 's twelfth axiom is undemonstrable .
We may imagine rational beings living in a two-dimensional space , and conceiving of space accordingly , that is having no conception of a third dimension of space ; this two-dimensional space need not however be a plane , and taking it to be the pseudospherical surface , the geometry to which their experience would lead them would be the geometry of this surface , that is , the Lobatschewskian geometry .
With regard to our own two-dimensional space , the plane , I have , in my Presidential Address ( B.A. , Southport , 1883 ) expressed the opinion that Euclid 's twelfth axiom in Playfair 's form of it does not need demonstration , but is part of our notion of space , of the physical space of our experience ; the space , that is , which we become acquainted with by experience , but which is the representation lying at the foundation of all physical experience .
3 .
I propose in the present paper to further develope the geometry of the pseudosphere .
In regard to the name , and the subject

