4 .
" On the gaseous transformation of Water , by means of a pile in two separate compartments having no other electric communication between them besides conducting wires of copper , and giving , in the one oxygen alone , and hydrogen alone in the other .
" By M. Daniel Paret .
Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. After premising that , at the present time , it is the generally received opinion that water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen , the author states that he now brings forward an experiment which proves , not that water is a compound , but really a simple element , the generator of oxygen and hydrogen , since , without being decomposed , a volume of water being given , it may be entirely transformed at will , either into oxygen or into hydrogen .
Thus , he considers , it is no longer a decomposition of pre-existing elements which is effected , but really a gaseous transformation into two " sub-elements " which are formed at the expense of the water , by the transposition of its combined or coercitive electricity which places itself in excess in the water which becomes oxygen , at the expense of another volume which becomes hydrogen .
He considers that this will , no doubt , appear very extraordinary , but that nevertheless it is now " un fait accompli et acquis ' la science .
" After describing the experiments which he considers support his doctrine , the author concludes by observing that these experiments prove , -lst , that contrary to the indefensible theory , a compound electric fluid which is decomposed and recomposed , there is a true transfer of fluid in the current , which besides would be sufficiently evident by its motive power .
2nd .
That the electric fluid is really the coercitive agent of cohesion .
3rd .
That water is not a compound , is not an oxide , but truly a first element , the generator of oxygen and of hydrogen .
4th .
In fine , it reveals a power unknown until now , and that very likely many other bodies are in the same case as water .
In a second communication the author states that he had occasionally met with some anomalous results on repeating his experiments , and then points out how these are to be obviated .

