IV .
C"Account of the Building in progress of erection at Melbourne for the Great Telescope .
" In a Letter addressed to the President of the Royal Society by Mr. It .
J. ELLERY , of the Observatory , Melbourne .
Communicated by the President .
Received February 27 , 1869 .
Observatory , Melbourne , Jan. 4 , 1869 .
MY DriAR Sint , -The telescope has at length arrived , and we are now very busy getting it erected ; for nothing could be done towards it till the great machine itself came to hand .
It will be nearly two months before it can be fairly tried , when a spacious rectangular building and its travelling roof will be completed .
Mr. Le Sueur arrived nearly two months before the telescope , having come by the overland mail , and the ship carrying the telescope making an unusually long passage .
The principal or more delicate portions of the instrument came out in good order : the specula are still in thin coats of varnish , and their surfaces appear in perfect good order .
Some of the large castings and portions of the gearing had got rusted , but not to an injurious extent .
The piers were completed on New Year 's morning , and form a magnificent piece of masonry , the stone employed being the grey basalt , so common here ( called " blue stone " ) , in blocks from one to three tons in weight each .
The building we have finally decided upon is of stuccoed brickwork 80 feet long by 40 wide .
Forty in length is taken up by the telescope-room , which is covered by a ridged roof of iron travelling on rails on the walls , and moves back on the other 40 feet of the building , leaving the telescope in the open air .
The back 40 feet is covered by a fixed roof lower than the moveable one , and will contain a polishingand engine-room , a capacious laboratory , and an office for observer .
The cost of piers , building , and roof will be about ?
1700 .
The Government , with hard economy in all other directions , have still acted very liberally about this work ; and I only trust the telescope itself will turn out all that is expected of it .
The micrometer and spectrum-apparatus have not arrived yet .
Our magnetographs do their work smoothly and satisfactorily .
The photography has become a part of the routine of the Observatory now .
I have been anxiously awaiting the arrival of the baroand thermographs , and we look for them every day , although I have had no advices of their having been shipped .
I suppose you will have seen Mr. Verdon long before this reaches you .
I remain , my dear Sir , Major-General Sabine , Yours faithfully , Royal Society , London .
ROBERT J. ELLERY .

