]\gt ; hese tirst fonstitute aemisphere , ivided bMcCLEAN OOMPARATIVE PCrThe areas Auded iresent series opectra hanged ieries , assed s the galactic , and the deductions as to distribution have been made from them .
respective areas to which they belong .
It appears at once that SECCHI'S Type I. requires further subdivision into distinct classes .
To effect this , a series of divisions in parallel to SECCHI'S types have been adopted , in which Divisions I. , II .
, and III .
espond to Type I. , and Divisions IV .
, V. , and VI .
to Types II .
, , and IV .
respectively .
The classified tables of the stellar spectra are given at the end of the paper , and previous classifications by SECCHI in 1866-1868 , by VOGEL in 1883 , by PICKERING in 1890 , and by LOCKYER in 1892 are indicated in separate columns .
Division I. includes all stars whose spectra are characterised by the lines of hydrogen and of cleveite gas .
Subdivision I. ( a ) shows other special lines in addition .
I have made a cIose comparison with the spectra of nearly all the elements , for the purpose of identifying hese extra lines , but without definite resuIt .
The only suggestion that presents itself to me is the possibility of their being due to oxygen .
I have placed below the scale attached to these spectra RUNG and PASCHEN'S spectrum of cleveite gas , which forms the characteristic spectrum of the division .
Also THALEN'S spark spectrum of oxygen .
Although there is not a perfect reement between the spectrum of oxygen and the special lines referred to , there is a very remarkable correspondence .
I have further placed below the scale bright-line spectrum of the nebula in Orion .
The general coincidence with the stellar line leaves little doubt as to the cIose connexion between this class of stars and the gaseous nebulae .
Evidence to the same effect is afforded by the wonderful photographs taken in recent years , showing the physical connexion of many of these stars with the nebulae .
Such are Dr. ROBERTS'S photogghs of the Pleiades and of the great nebula in Orion .
Alongside copies of these I have shown the corresponding groups of the spectra of the involved stars ; the respective stars and their spectra are easily identffied on inspection .
All six stars of the show the cleveite gas spectrum , but the presence of the special extra lines is doubtful .
The Orion stars , which include and Orionis , all show the cleveite spectrum , but in these the special lines are aiso recognised .
We have thus evidence of both physical and chemical connexion between these and the nebulae .
[ Note added 8th April , 1897.\mdash ; There are two other instances of the connexion of stars of Subdivision I. ( a ) with nebulae .
BARNARD , in 1895 , photographed an extended nebula in the ticinity of Scorpii ( Antares ) .
He mentions Scorpii as oonnected with the nebulosity .
The photo SPECTRA OF STARS TO THE MAGNITUDE .
graphic spectra of the four stars , , @ , , and Scorpii , all near Antares , belong to Division .
They are in the area BB , and do not appear in the present series .
BARNARD ako photographed , with a six-hour exposure , an nebula contiguous to Persei , a star of the 4th magnitude .
The spectra of and Persei , on either side of it , appear in the photographs , and belong to Subdivision I. .
A photograph of the spectra of Persei was recently obtained , $)nd it also to the same division .
Both these instances point to the same conclusion , that stars of this type are in the first stage of stellar development from nebulae .
The star Persei and also Orionis give in their spectra three lines of the second hydrogen series , recently identified by PICKERING in Puppis .
One of the three lines at wave-length 4027 corresponds to the characteristic helium line .
The other two at wave-length 4201 and wave-length 4544 do not appear in any other spectra of Subivision I. in the present photogrnphs .
These lines appear to belong to the earliest stage of stellar development .
] There is further evidence to the same effect in the similarity of the distribution of this type of star , and of the gaseous and planetary nebulae .
The gaseous nebulae , given in the Table in FROST'S edition of SCHEINER'S ' scopy , ' have been distributed into the same equal areas as the stars .
The following shows the reIative distribution for the nebulae and for the stars:\mdash ; A. B. C. D. Gaseous nebulae . . . .
3 7 16 6 Stars ] ) ivision I. . . .
3 6 17 3 .
Thus it appears that the helium of Division I. and the gaseous nebulae subject to a similar law of distribution in relation to the galactic plane , .
All these facts afford grounds for accepting the conclusion that the helium stars of Subdivision I. are in the first stage of stellar development from the gaseous nebuJae .
Division I. has a second subdivision , viz. , I. ( b ) , which is also characterised by a special lines .
These lines have been attributed to calcium , barium , and magnesium .
Since these special lines persist through the subsequent divisions , it may be concluded with tolerable certainty , that in order of development Subdivision I. ( b ) follows after Subdivision I. .
The line of calcium , which first appears in this subdivision , gradually increases in strength to such a marked extent in the subsequent divisioos , that it may be practically taken ( as suggested by Dr. HUGGINS ) , as a criterion of the type to which a spectrum belongs .
Two bright line spectra have been treated as belonging respectively to the divisions to which their ption spectra belong .
The spectrum given of Cassiopeiae , clearly places it in Subdivision I. .
It is a helium star .
The bright hydrogen lines are weak , and are placed centrally in the difluse absorption lines .
VOL. CXCT .
hydrogen aelium lines appear bright Tiarities ostar aMcCLEAN OlPARATIVB PLyrae ihelium spectrum.ongs tBoth t known .
A third bright line star , of another division , may be mentioned here .
The spectrum of Mira Ceti belongs to Type LL or Division V. The bright hydrogen lines appear periodically , for a brief bime , with great brilliancy .
The banded absorption spectrum brightens up simultaneous ] , a peculiarity which it is difficult to explain .
The exceptionally good photograph of this spectrum was taken on the 1st January last .
Division Ir .
is especially the hydrogen type .
In it the hydrogen spectrum attains its full development both in the strength of the lines and in the extent of the spectrum .
This is shown in the ultra violet series of lines , discovered by Dr. HUGGINS .
The narrower and more sharply defined calcium line , in itself distinguishes the division from those which precede and follow it .
The delicate absorption lines , which also distinguish the type , are difficult to photograph , but they are well shown in the spectra of Sirius and Vega .
spectrum of Cygni has been sometimes classed differently , but a comparison with the of Sirius , which is placed next it , clearly shows their identity , and that they only differ in strength .
The fine lines appear to be due to calcium and titanium rather than to iron , ] though that spectrum is also present in an incipient form .
The distribution of this division is irregular , .
: A. B. D. Division III .
, or the hydrogen-iron type , is the Iast of the separate divisions into which Type I. has been divided .
In its more advanced examples the iron spectrum is fully developed .
That spectrum has been plotted on the scale for comparison .
This type is more closely allied to the subsequent solar type , Division , than to the preceding hydrogen and ] types .
The brightness of the violet end , and the obscurity of the red end of the spectrum , remain the same as in the preceding divisions .
The hydrogen lines remain very strong , and the calcium lines and are generally subordinate to them .
This division completes the requisite subdivision of SECCHI'S Type I. , which has not hitherto been fully established .
The subsequent divisions remain as defined by SECCHI iu 1868 .
It must also be remembered that SECCHI fully recognised the special character of the spectra of the Orion stars .
Division IV .
is equivalent to Type II .
, or the solar type .
The characteristics of this type are well defined .
They are also elucidated by our more intimate knowledge of the solar spectrum , which forms the basis of our knowledge of astronomical physics .
Division .
is equivalent to Type III .
, and is the first of the banded types investigated by Duner .
The phorographs of this type of spectra are to take .
These sbars are not numerous within the range of magnitude under conSPECTRA OF STARS TO THE MAGNITUDE sideration .
The spectra are closely allied to those of Division IV .
, and have been placed consecutively with them .
The coincidences the spectra of calcium manganese have been marked on the scale .
Division VI .
is equivalent to Type IV .
There are no stars in this division brighter than the magnitude , but to complete the series , ) hobographs of the spectra of SECCHI'S Superba , and of 19 Piscium have been included .
The photographs are poor owing to the faintness of the stars , but their interest lies in the hydrocarbon absorption bands , and further in the line spectrum , also recognizable , and similar to that of Tauri ( Aldebaran ) .
There remains the question of how far the distribution of the stars into the equal areas discioses any information as to the distribution of heir respective types of spectra in space .
The dimensions of the sphere enclosing stars to the is obtained from the light ratio .
The decrease of for each magnitude beyond bhe 1st is inversely as the light ratio .
The corresponding increase of distance is as the square root of this ratio , or as 1 to .
Taking the distances of the magnitude stars at in this way as the radius of the sphere containing the stars of the magnitude , its radius will be , in terms of the mean distance of 1st magnitude stars from the sun , approximately .
The mean distance of 1st magnitude stars from the sun has been determined parallax obseryations to be approximately light years .
Thus the diameter of the enclosing sphere for stars of the magnitude is approximately 255 light years .
This gauge block of space , although large , might be so small , compared with the dimensions of the galaxy , as to Qclose nothing with regard to its structure .
The foJlowing table of distribution , however , shows that within this block there are indications of differences in the distribution of the different stellar types , relatively to the plane of the galaxy .
The table shows the distribution of the gaseous nebulae , both planetary and extended , for the same areas .
MR. F. McCLEAN ON THE COMPARATIVE PHOTOGRAPHIC TABLE of Distribution of Gaseous Nebluae and of Stellar Types .
Stars to the Magnitude .
NOTE.\mdash ; The gaseous nebulae are those givell in the table in FROST'S edition of SCHEINER'S ' Astronomical Spectroscopy .
' We gather from this table that as the stellar types of spectra become more advanced they are found to be more evenly distributed in space .
It suggests the idea that stars of the solar type\mdash ; Division IV.\mdash ; started on their career as helium stars of Division I. , before the condensation of the galaxy .
The Procyon stars of Division III .
possibly followed in the same course after the galaxy was formed .
The paucity of stars of this type in the lower polar region , coupled with their even distribution in the other areas , suggests the idea that sun itself is situated near the lower boundary of the gal The distribution of the Sirian stars\mdash ; Division II.\mdash ; is irregular , and further information is required as to their distribution in the southern areas .
The Orion stars\mdash ; Division I.\mdash ; are mostly confined to the galactic zones .
It has been already conjectured that they are still in the first stage of stellar development from the gaseous nebulae .
It has been throughout assumed that the successive types or divisions are merely the manifestations of the successive physical states , through which every star naturally passes in the course of its career .

