10 Prof* J. Tyndall on [ Dec. 18 , It is hardly possible that such general reasoning , as has been above applied to the two problems of the present paper , could ever have led to a discovery of the laws of change of the system .
This kind of consideration is , however , of some interest as throwing light on the definite results already attained by the accurate methods of analysis .
II .
" On Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received December 10 , 1879 .
Two years ago , Dr. Hofmann drew my attention to a forthcoming paper by Professor Buff , to which he obviously and naturally attached considerable importance .
The paper appeared in the " Philosophical Magazine " for December , 1877 .
Being much occupied at the time with other matters , I merely glanced at its conclusions , and then laid it aside until I should be able to read it carefully , and , if necessary , to examine it experimentally .
Bast summer , I , for the first time , read the paper through , and I have recently , more than once , repeated its perusal\#151 ; reflecting on its methods and conclusions , to the best of my ability , wherever they appeared dark to me .
The principal result of the paper is , that a stratum of dry air , 45 millims. thick , " absorbs from 50 to 60 per cent , of the rays of heat which it receives from a source heated to the temperature of boiling water .
" The experiments whereby I sought to show the-absorption of radiant heat , by a stratum of dry air more than thirty times the thickness of that employed by Professor Buff , to be sensibly nil , are , at the same time , pronounced " unreliable .
" I once ventured te express the opinion that 10 per cent , of the-radiation from the earth is absorbed by the aqueous vapour contained in the first 10 feet of air .
The late Professor Magnus urged against me at the time , that were so much heat lodged in so thin a stratum , the deposition of dew would be impossible .
Urged against the conclusion that not 10 per cent. , but 60 per cent , of the earth 's radiation is absorbed , not within 120 inches , but within 2 inches of the earth 's surface , the argument of Professor Magnus would have serious force .
Under the covering assigned to it by Professor Buff , our planet ought never to suffer from rapid nocturnal chill .
Professor Buff 's intention , at starting , was to investigate the conduction of heat by gases , and he employed for this purpose an apparatus similar to that of Professor Magnus , the dangers attending the use of which I have frequently pointed out .
A glass cylinder , , with its lower edge ground level , was mounted on the plate of an air-pump .
Cemented on to the open top of the cylinder was a brass vessel with a polished horizontal bottom , which was heated by the1879 .
] Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
11 pouring of hot water into the vessel .
From this source the heat proceeded through air or any other gas introduced into the cylinder underneath .
To measure the heat transmitted , a flattened thermoelectric couple was fixed , in the first experiment , at a distance of 23 millims. below the polished surface ; two wires being carried from the couple through the plate of the air-pump to a suitable galvano-meter .
It immediately appeared that the experiments were vitiated by the heat conducted from the source down the glass cylinder .
Below the level of the thermo-electric couple this heat was even sensible to the touch .
Currents , Professor Buff rightly inferred , would , under the circumstances , be unavoidable .
He would have free convection , whereas his object was to investigate conduction .
He further concluded , also rightly , that such currents were present in the experiments of Magnus , * although through the disposition of his apparatus , .
" he probably failed to appreciate the importance " of this source of error .
Thus warned , Professor Buff changed his mode of experiment , and the change will be best described and illustrated in his own words:\#151 ; " I had observed , " he says , " that if the hot liquid in the brass vessel was allowed to cool freely , the astatic needle , nevertheless , after some time , assumed a maximum deflection , indicating a state of equilibrium between the influx and loss of heat .
It is known that tolerably strong deflections of the needle of a highly sensitive galvanometer correspond to but slight alterations of temperature at the soldered junction .
If , therefore , we know the temperature of the brass vessel ( or rather that of its bottom ) at the commencement of the experiment , and the temperature of its fluid contents for which the deflection of the needle is greatest , then the thermal equilibrium , f upon which the highest temperature at the soldered junction dependsr must be very nearly proportional to the difference of these two temperatures of the brass vessel , at least so long as the thermal differences are small .
" Accordingly the brass vessel , at the commencement of the experiment , was filled with water at such temperature that the needle pointed to 0 ' , and remained stationary .
This having been effected , part of the cold water was taken out and replaced by hot water ; the temperature of the mixture was observed , and simultaneously the time of pouring in was noted .
The temperatures were taken by a * The existence of these currents was not only inferred , but they were rendered visible to the eye many years ago , by means of the illuminated fumes of chloride of ammonium .
See section headed " Proof of Convection , " Contributions to Molecular Physics , p. 381 .
.f I have found some difficulty in seizing the exact connexion between this expression and the words which follow it .
12 Prof- J* Tyndall [ Dec. 18 , thermometer , whose bulb was in contact with the bottom of the brass vessel .
" The following table gives the chief results of some of the experiments carried out in this manner .
The figures of the column marked T record for each of the stated gases the temperature of the water First , at the commencement of the experiment ; secondly , after mixing the hot and cold water ; and thirdly , at the moment when the deflection of the needle was at its maximum .
The differences between the first and third figures are given under whilst r shows the corresponding deflections , whose real and comparable values are placed in brackets underneath them ... ... ... .The figures under 2 express in minutes the time from the beginning of the experiment until the junction reached its maximum temperature .
The tension of the gases in the interior of the glass cylinder is given in millimetres under p ; and , finally , the last column contains comparable values expressing the intensity of the thermal action at the junction .
" 1 I T. t. T. Z. p. 100 T. t. ^ .
f 19-8 0 0 760 Dry air \lt ; 56-0 l 47-7 27-9 50-5 22 5 j 356-6 ( 99 *25 ) a. r 18-4 . .
0 0 15 Air vacuum \lt ; 54-6 l 47-0 28-6 48 -0 15 ) ) 309 -5 ( 88 -5 ) , r 22-5 . .
0 0 760 Hydrogen \lt ; 57 -5 L 50-5 28 -0 57-8 17 466 -4 ( 130 -6 ) r 23 -0 .
, 0 0 Rarefied hydrogen. . .
-i 58-0 1 52-1 29-1 53-0 14 378-0 ( 110 -o ) I interpret thus the method here pursued .-\#151 ; Suppose , for the sake .of simplicity , the thermometric zero at the bottom of the brass vessel to correspond , at starting , with the galvanometric zero , and supposing the temperature of the bottom of the brass vessel to augment within certain limits ; then , so long as the differences remained small , the quantity of heat received by the soldered junction would be proportional to the difference of temperature between the junction and the source .
Wdien , under such conditions , the galvanometric degrees , or their values , are divided by the thermometric degrees , a constant quotient ought to be obtained .
If , on interposing any gas between the source and the junction , the quotient referred to were observed to .change , such change would express the action of the gas ; while the 1879 .
] Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
1$ quotients obtained with different gases would express their relative actions .
It is , I suppose , on considerations such as these that Professor Buff has based his column of " comparable values , " where the galvanometric value is multiplied by 100 and divided by the thermometric value .
But the actual experiments of Professor Buff are by no means so-simple as the ideal ones here described .
He brings , first of all , his needle to zero by the introduction of water of the proper temperature into his brass vessel .
Removing a portion of this he pours in hot water , and has to wait for 22 minutes when air is in his cylinder , and for 15 minutes when the cylinder is exhausted , before his needle attains its maximum deflection .
Here it remains stationary " for 30 minutes-and more .
" Thus while the temperature of the polished brass bottom is steadily sinking from 56 ' to 470,7 , the deflection is gradually rising , obviously not through the action of what was intended to be the source .
Professor Buff then divides his maximum galvanometric deflection , multiplied by 100 , by the difference between his initial and his final temperature , and obtains in this way his column of " comparable values .
" Though begun with a view to conduction , no inference regarding this subject is drawn from these experiments .
We pass , without notice , from conduction to diathermancy , Professor Buff pointing out that his result agrees with that of Magnus in making the denser hydrogen " more diathermanous than the rarefied .
" Finding , however , in opposition to Magnus , that air showed a similar deportment , being more-diathermanous at 760 millims. than at 15 millims. , Professor Buff was induced to seek the cause , and if possible avoid the occurrence of so abnormal a result .
Round the cylinder containing his gases he placed a second and wider one , and filled the space between them with cold water to within 7 millims. of the bottom of his brass vessel .
The deflection of the needle fell considerably , and the anomaly of dense air being more diathermanous than rarefied air disappeared .
Even here , however , Professor Buff detected currents , or a cause of currents , the heat conducted down the interior cylinder rendering the water warm at the top .
Lowering his junction to a depth of 45 millims. below the source of heat , he allowed cold water to enter his annular space below and to run off above .
Here he halted , as if every source of error had been removed .
By means of his water jacket he lessened his radiating zone of glass and diminished the area of the heated vertical surface with which his gases came into contact .
It is obvious , however , that no contact of the kind ought to have been at all permitted .
The brass plate , which he regarded as his source of heat , must have accepted almost momentarily the temperature of the water above it ; still , even in the improved experiments , 8 minutes were required to14 Prof. J. Tyndall [ Dec. 18 .
-enable the needle to rise from 0 ' to 28'*C , the temperature of the presumptive source falling at the same time from 46 ' to 39'*6 .
It is on .experiments conducted in this way that Professor Buff founds conclusions which , were they correct , would leave eight or nine years of diligent and careful work , on my part , in a very serious plight .
Hydrogen gas he alleges to be as diathermanous as a vacuum , while more than 50 per cent , of his radiation is , as before stated , absorbed by 45 millims. of air .
With the fact before him that the deflection of his galvanometer needle was rising while the temperature of his brass plate was sinking , it must have occurred to Professor Buff that not the brass but the glass was his really efficient source of heat .
The radiating zone was chilled by his gases , currents were established , and that hydrogen under such circumstances should transfer more heat to his junction than air is only what might be expected from the mobility of the gas .
Professor Buff next lowered his junction to a distance of 100 millims. below his source , and obtained an unexpected result .
Instead of the absorption increasing , as it ought to have done when the depth of the absorbing layer was more than doubled , it fell from 50 to 15 per cent. The deflections here were small , and on coating the polished brass surface with lampblack , " though the radiating power of the source of heat must have been six or seven times greater than previously , " there was hardly any increase of the deflection .
The junction was here acted on simply by the chilled sides of the surrounding vessel .
I have failed to extract a clear meaning from Professor Buff 's remarks on this point ; but , as a matter of fact , when the interior of his cylinder was covered with double cardboard , the absorptive energy of dry air in great part reappeared .
The only distinct impression here left upon the mind is that , in Professor Buff 's experiments , the surface of his glass cylinder , which ought to have been absolutely neutral , played a most influential part.* j Experimental Examination of Professor Buff 's Results .
The disposition of the apparatus devised by me in 1859 , when , in relation to radiant heat , the gaseous form of matter was first brought under the yoke of experiment , !
is too well known to need description .
From the source of heat the rays passed first through a vacuous chamber and then through an experimental tube stopped at both ends * Thinking that the original German might enable me to seize Professor Buff 's meaning more effectually , I sought for the original paper , but failed to find it .
The article appears to have been written and translated specially for the English public .
t Professor Magnus 's first paper on radiation through gases was about a year and three-quarters posterior to my first communication to the Royal Society .
See " Contributions to Molecular Physics , Historic Remarks on Memoir I , " p. 59 .
1879 .
] Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
by dry and pellucid plates of rock-salt .
The vacuous chamber was clasped at one place by a water jacket , which cut off all conduction from the source .
At some distance beyond the end of the tube stood the thermo-pile , furnished with a double cone , with a view to the application of the principle of compensation .
The experimenter who does not shrink from the discipline necessary to master it will find this method powerful , exact , and under the most complete control .
By it was determined , for the first time , in 1859 , the action of a considerable number of gases and vapours , one result of the inquiry being that , while some transparent gases were more impervious than many solids , the dry atmospheric air enveloping our earth was a practical vacuum to the rays of heat .
From this result the experiments of the late Professor Magnus led him to dissent .
We once discussed our differences viva voce he urging against me an objection which has been revived by Professor Buff .
I had , he said , sent my heat through a vacuous chamber into my experimental tube ; but between that tube and my pile there existed a space of air , in which , he asserted , the absorption which I had failed to detect in the tube itself took place .
He mentioned a series of experiments which he was then on the point of publishing , and which , he said , proved , not only that the absorption of radiant heat by air was considerable , but also that a layer of air 12 inches thick sufficed to intercept all the rays that air was capable of intercepting .
A published account of these results I have never been able to find , but they must have closely resembled those now under discussion .
I asked Professor Magnus whether he thought a stratum of air \#165 ; Xoth of an inch in thickness would exert any sensible absorptive action .
He promptly replied in the negative .
I therefore made the following experiment , which has been overlooked by Professor Buff .
Placing the anterior cone of my pile within the experimental tube , I was able to bring its naked face within -J^th of an inch of my terminal plate of rock-salt .
There was not the slightest alteration of the previously obtained result .
Dry air , as before , behaved like a vacuum .
Fig. 1 is a rough vertical section of one of the pieces of apparatus recently arranged with a view of testing Professor Buff 's conclusions .
F and P are two chambers formed of brass tubing 2f inches in diameter .
The chamber F is soldered to the cube C , one face of which constitutes the source of heat .
W is a jacket in which water of the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere constantly circulates , preventing the heat conducted from C from passing further .
The chamber F is separated from the chamber P by an intermediate chambers , bounded by the rock salt plates r ' .
Within the chamber P is the thermo-pile , from which wires pass through the tube to a sensitive galvanometer .
S is a screen , and C ' a compensating cube .
The 16 Prof. J. Tyndall on [ Dec. 18r chamber P is closed at its end by the rock-salt plate t , through which the heat rays from C ' can reach the posterior face of the pile .
Adjusting the screen S so that the rays impinging on both sides of the pile accurately neutralise each other , rock-salt plates being first in contact , by means of a screw d , one of the plates r ' is withdrawn from the other , dry air being introduced into the space between them .
The layer of air eould be gradually augmented in thickness from zero to 3 inches , which exceeds by more than 50 per cent , the thickness of the layer to which Professor Buff ascribes an absorption of 50 or 60 per cent. The apparatus is delicately constructed , and to avoid the strain upon the plates of rock-salt r , r ' , which would occur if the chambers F and P were exhausted , each of these chambers was filled with dry hydrogen .
This , according to Professor Buff , is tantamount to a vacuum , exercising no action whatever on the rays of heat .
Repeated experiments with this apparatus proved the absorption of the layer of dry air in the chamber i to be nil .
But here another question arises .
The rays of heat in these experiments had passed through plates of rock-salt .
Supposing , therefore , that air and rock-salt absorb the same rays , the sifting of the rays by the salt would cause the air within the experimental tube to behave as a vacuum .
Professor Buff endeavours to prove that this is the case .
He first finds the transmission of radiant heat by a plate of clear rock-salt 3 millims. in thickness to be less than 60 per cent , of the entire radiation ; and then he finds that the thermal colours of rock-salt and air are " sufficiently similar to explain the phenomena observed by Tyndall .
" It is hardly credible that the skilled experimenters who preceded Professor Buff should have failed to detect the high absorption which he ascribes to rock-salt , if it were a fact .
Melloni 's determination 1879 .
] Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
which makes the transmission of a plate of rock-salt 2'6 millims. thick 92'3 per cent , of the total radiation is , in my opinion , much nearer the truth than that of Professor Buff .
Be that as it may , I can affirm that in my case the transmission through plates of rock-salt of five times the thickness of that employed by Professor Buff amounts to 80 per cent , of the entire radiation .
Subtracting from the 20 per cent , intercepted , 8 per cent , due to reflection at the two surfaces of the salt , we have 12 per cent , remaining for absorption * Were the thermal colours of air wholly , instead of partially , as affirmed by Professor Buff , identical with those of rock-salt , the coincidence would fail to account for the high absorption which he ascribes to air .
But let us examine whether the alleged coincidence exists at all .
To treat this question exhaustively , we must be able to compare the transmission of rock-salt in vacuo with its transmission in air .
The apparatus employed for this purpose is rendered intelligible by the rough section , fig. 2 .
Prom the cube C the experi- mental tube extends to the plate of rock-salt t , which closes the tube .
Midway , a rectangular chamber B is introduced , large enough to permit of one of my plates of rock-salt s to be raised and lowered within it .
It is soldered on to the experimental tube , being exhausted when the tube is exhausted .
The plate of salt s is clasped by a ring attached to the rod R , which moves air-tight through a stuffing-box in the bottom of the chamber B. The plate of salt s is 2f inches in diameter ; while across the experimental tube , right and left of B , are diaphragms with apertures inches in diameter .
When the salt is pushed up , it comes between these apertures , the rays of heat passing through the central portion of the salt .
The thermo-pile , with its two cones , is placed within the chamber P , while the water* In the case of the second plate of salt we have to deal with surface reflection merely , the heat having been sifted by the first plate .
VOL. XXX .
c 18 Prof. J. Tyndall on [ Dec. 18 , jacket W plays the part already assigned to it .
The method of experiment is now easy of comprehension .
The whole space between C and t was , in the first place , rendered as empty as a good air-pump could make it .
The radiation from the compensating cube C ' being cut off by the screen S , the total radiation from C was declared by the galvanometer .
The plate of salt was then pushed up , and the consequent fall of the deflection was repeatedly noted .
Thus the absorption by rock-salt of radiant heat , which in no part of its course had been sifted by air , was determined .
Dry air was then permitted to slowly enter the experimental tube until it was filled .
The length of air through which the rays had to pass before reaching the pile was ten times that in which Professor Buff had found his large absorption .
The sifting of the rays by the air , if Professor Buff be correct , ought here to reduce the absorption of the rock-salt to nothing .
As in the former case , the experiment was repeated many times , and on different days .
There was no difference between the transmission through the air and salt , and through the vacuum and salt .
The air proved absolutely powerless to influence in any sensible degree the colour or quality of the heat .
Here is a sample of the results obtained:\#151 ; Experimental Tube Exhausted .
Radiation\#151 ; O O Through vacuum , 41-5 ; through salt , 37'5 .
55 " 41-5 ; " " 37-5 .
55 \#187 ; 41-5 ; " 37-5 .
55 \#187 ; 41-5 ; " 37-5 .
The value of 41'-5 is 51-5 units ; that of 37''5 is 41 units\#151 ; hence the* transmission amounts to 80 per cent , of the whole radiation .
Experimental Tube filled with Air .
Radiation\#151 ; Salt withdrawn , 395 39-5 39-5 O through rock-salt , 35 .
35 .
35 .
35 .
The value of 39''5 is 46 units ; that of 35 , o0 is 36'5 units\#151 ; hence the transmission amounts , as in the vacuum , to 80 per cent , of the whole radiation .
The experiment was checked , not only by repetition , but by the following variation .
By means of the adjusting screen S , the heat from the compensating tube O ' was caused to accurately neutralise that from C , .
1879 .
] Buff 's Experiments on the Diathermancy of Air .
the needle of the galvanometer pointing to zero .
When this was done with the experimental tube exhausted , the plate of salt was pushed up .
A moderate deflection of the galvanometer was the consequence .
Repeated experiments made the heat intercepted by the salt 20 per cent , of the whole radiation .
This was the fraction stopped whether the tube was exhausted or filled with air .
This stoppage of 20 per cent , exactly corresponds with the transmission of 80 per cent , resulting from the previous experiments .
I have also taken the trouble to repeat Professor Buff 's experiments with an apparatus similar to his own ; taking care , however , to avoid the principal error into which I suppose him to have fallen .
A glass cylinder , A , fig. 3,12 inches long and 2f inches in diameter , is mounted on the plate p , p , of an air-pump .
On it is placed a tin vessel C , with a brass bottom , intended to contain the water which warms the bottom , or source of heat .
A thermo-pile , P , is mounted on the air-pump plate on w'hich the cylinder stands , one of its faces being presented to the bottom of the tin vessel .
The conical reflector is abandoned , a piece of tubing blackened within , and intended to cut off the radiation from the sides of the vessel , being pushed over the pile .
Instead of bringing brass and glass into direct contact , as in the apparatus of Professor Buff , a washer , w , w , of non-conducting india-rubber , an inch and an eighth in thickness , separates the one from the other .
There is no chilling by cold water , and the distance of 20 Dr. W. Huggins .
[ Dec. 18 , the pile from the source renders it difficult for heat to pass by convection from the one to the other .
Following the method pursued by Professor Buff , the radiation through hydrogen was compared with the radiation through air .
To make the experiments more strictly comparable , the temperature of the source was in all cases rendered the same .
Instead of having to wait 8 minutes for the needle to reach its maTmnm deflection , it was steady there in less than a quarter of this time .
The result was very different from that obtained by Professor Buff .
Instead of the one gas absorbing from 50 to 60 per cent , of the radiation , and the other none , no difference whatever was to be detected between the deportment of hydrogen and that of air .
Both , as before , proved practical vacua to the rays of heat .
Professor Buff describes other experiments , to one only of which I need refer .
He makes " the diathermancy of olefiant gas somewhat higher than that of air .
" It mast have been a strangely defective apparatus which could yield such a result .
Air differs as widely from olefiant gas as rock-salt differs from ice .
Pursuing Professor Buff 's own method of experiment , * but insulating the glass cylinder from the source of heat , the diathermancy of air was found to be perfect , whereas 11 inches of olefiant gas absorbed 33 per cent , of the total radiation .
Such is my examination of the paper to which my attention was directed two years ago by Dr. Hofmann .
III .
" On the Photographic Spectra of Stars .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 11 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) The author presented , in December , 1876 , a preliminary note on the subject of this paper , together with a diagram of the spectrum of Vega compared with that of the sun .
The author refers to a paper by Dr. William Allen Miller and himself in 1864 , in which they describe an early attempt to photograph the spectra of stars .
Other investigations prevented the author from resuming this line of research until 1875 , when a more perfect driving clock , by Grubb , enabled him to take up this work with greater prospect of success .
The author describes the special apparatus and the methods of working which have been employed .
The spectrum apparatus consists of one prism of Iceland spar and * A defective method even when every care is bestowed upon it .

