On the Non-existence of Sugar in the Blood of Persons labouring under .
Diabetes Mellitus .
In a Letter to Alexander Marcet , M.D. F.R.S. from William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read January 24 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 96 .
] Dr. Marcet , having been requested by Dr. Wollaston to examine whether the serous fluid , secreted in consequence of the application of a blister , could be impregnated with prussiate of potash , gave to a young woman five grains of this prussiate , every hour , till she had taken thirteen or fourteen such doses .
After the fifth dose , when her urine became blue immediately by addition of sulphate of iron , a blister was applied , and the serum secreted in consequence was collected , whilst her urine still indicated the presence of the prussiate .
But in this serum no prussiate could be detected .
Dr. Marcet also repeated Dr. Wollaston 's experiment on serum derived directly from the blood , but with this variation , that the blood was drawn by cupping ; and he could not discover the presence of any prussiate .
The author observes , that in several instances in which prussiate of potash had been taken by other persons , it could not be detected in their urine .
As some of those in whom it failed to appear were taking mercury at the time , he conjectured that the difference might possibly arise from that cause ; but as in two other failures no mercury was present , he does not lay much stress on that conjecture .
Reply of Dr. Marcet on the same Subject .
This letter contains the details of experiments made several years since .
First .
On the serum of blood , with a view to discover some easy means of detecting the presence of sugar added to it .
Secondly .
Upon the blood of persons whose urine was known to contain sugar , for the purpose of determining whether it was also present in their blood .
Thirdly .
Upon the blood of persons secreting , by urine , other ingredients , which had been swallowed for that purpose , in order to ascertain whether these could be detected in their passage through the blood , from the stomach to the bladder .
The method employed by the author for detecting sugar in the serum , was first to add dilute muriatic acid to the serum , and then to heat it till perfectly coagulated .
The water which exudes from healthy serum so coagulated , contains scarcely anything but salts , which crystallize by evaporation .
But if a very small proportion of sugar has been previously added , it is immediately detected upon evaporating a drop of this fluid , by the blackness and interruption to the crystallization which are occasioned by it .
As a further test of the presence or absence of sugar , a little nitric acid was added to the drop , which in the former case merely occasioned an alteration in the form of the salts , but in the latter a white foam rises round the margin of the drop , and it subsequently turns black .
The author next examined the blood of four persons labouring under diabetes , whose urine contained sugar , and was satisfied that no one of them contained a perceptible quantity of sugar .
Since the formation of sugar did not appear so likely to arise from a new power assumed by the kidneys in diabetes , as from a process of imperfect assimilation by the stomach , and since the possibility of fluids passing from the stomach to the bladder without passing through the blood , had been formerly maintained by Dr. Darwin , it seemed desirable to examine this point by some test more decisive than nitre , which was employed by Dr. Darwin .
Dr. Wollaston , therefore , made use of prussiate of potash for this purpose , which he found might be taken without detriment or inconvenience , and could be detected with the utmost facility in the urine by adding solutions of iron .
Nevertheless , no perceptible quantity of this prussiate could be discovered in the blood taken from the arm during the secretion of urine highly impregnated with it .
The author also examined other secretions , as the saliva , and the fluid secreted by the nose during a catarrh ; but he could not perceive them to be tinged with the prussiate .
He is consequently much inclined to the opinion , of the existence of some channel of conveyance from the stomach to the bladder , not yet riglitly understood .
For though the agency of an elective power , residing in the nerves as acting cause , may account for the transfer , yet the channel through which they are conveyed remains to be discovered by direct experiments on living animals , which he has not been inclined to undertake .

