533 Further Studies of Gastrotoxic Serum .
( Report .
) By Charles Bolton , M.D. , Besearch Scholar of the Grocers ' Company .
( Communicated by Professor S. Martin , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1907 .
) ( From the Pathological Department , University College Hospital Medical School .
) [ Plate 7 .
] In two ( 1 and 2 ) previous communications to the Royal Society I was able to demonstrate the production of a gastrotoxic serum by the injection of the mucous membrane of the stomach of one animal into another .
In this way , a heterogastrotoxin was formed by injecting the stomach cells of the guinea-pig into the rabbit , and an isogastrotoxin by injecting the stomach cells of the rabbit into the rabbit .
I also showed that a human gastrotoxin could likewise be produced by injecting human stomach cells into another animal .
The heterogastrotoxin possesses poisonous properties for the tissues of the variety of animal whose stomach has been used for injection , but the isogastrotoxin does not .
The latter , however , is toxic for the tissues of a nearly allied animal .
The gastrotoxin , on injection into an animal for which it is poisonous , produces necrotic patches in the mucous membrane of the stomach , which develop into ulcers .
In the test-tube the serum also produces effects upon the tissues of the animal concerned .
It was proved to be of a complex nature , and to be capable of effecting the following reactions:\#151 ; 1 .
Haemolysis of the red blood corpuscles .
2 .
Precipitation of the soluble proteids of the stomach cells , and also of other proteids of the body .
3 .
Agglutination of the gastric protoplasmic granules .
4 .
A more or less definite hyaline transformation of the intact gastric cells .
The present communication will deal with the four following points:\#151 ; 1 .
The multiplicity of the precipitins .
2 .
The identity of the substances producing the precipitating and agglutinating reactions .
3 .
The production of immunity to the gastrotoxin .
4 .
The rdlewhich the gastric juice plays in the 'actual formation of the necrotic patches and of the subsequent gastric ulceration .
VOL. lxxix.\#151 ; b. 2 Q Dr. C. Bolton .
[ June 10 , The gastrotoxic serum was in all cases obtained by injecting the washed stomach cells of the guinea-pig into the rabbit , the blood serum of the rabbit developing toxic properties for the guinea-pig 's tissues .
1 .
The Multiplicity of the My object was to ascertain whether the same precipitin or different precipitins were concerned in the precipitation of the various proteids .
Method.\#151 ; The proteid solutions examined were albuminous extracts of the gastric , hepatic , and intestinal cells , and the blood serum of the guinea-pig .
The extracts were made by grinding up the cells to a pulp , shaking up the latter with salt solution , and filtering through a Berkefeld filter .
The proteid solutions were all made of such a strength that a faint cloud was formed on testing them with potassium ferrocyanide and acetic acid .
It is necessary to use the solutions of the same strengths , because the precipitate is soluble in excess of the precipitable substance , and therefore if albuminous fluids of different strengths are employed , erroneous results will follow .
If equal volumes of such a proteid solution and anti-serum be mixed together and incubated for four hours , and if the precipitate which forms in the solution be removed by centrifugalisation , the resulting solution , which will consist of a two-fold dilution of anti-serum , will be found to be incapable of precipitating any further the proteid solution .
In this way one can easily remove the precipitin for any particular proteid , and the solution can then be tested with regard to its power of precipitating a different proteid .
In all cases , of course , a control must be prepared , so as to prove that the precipitin has been actually removed .
In this way the precipitins for each of the four proteid solutions mentioned above were removed , and the resulting serum diluted to different degrees and tested as to its capacity of precipitating the three remaining proteids , with the following results:\#151 ; Removal of the Precipitin for Stomach-cell Proteid.\#151 ; A solution of gastro-toxin from which the precipitin for stomach-cell proteid has been removed is thereby rendered quite incapable of precipitating the-proteids of liver cells , intestine cells , or blood serum .
Removal of the Precipitin for Liver-cell Proteid.\#151 ; Removal of the precipitin for liver-cell proteid slightly weakens the power of the gastrotoxin to precipitate the proteids of stomach cells and blood serum , and it completely deprives it of the power of precipitating intestine-cell proteid .
Removal of the Precipitin for Intestine-cell Proteid.\#151 ; Removal of this precipitin renders the gastrotoxin incapable of precipitating liver-cell proteid , 1907 .
] Further Studies of Gastrotoxic Serum .
but only weakens its precipitating pdwer for the proteids of stomach cells and blood serum .
Removal of the Precipitin for the of Blood Serum.\#151 ; If the precipitin for the blood serum be removed , the gastrotoxin is still able to precipitate all the three remaining solutions , but not quite to the same degree as before .
It appears , therefore , that the precipitins of gastrotoxic serum are multiple and to a great extent specific , but that their actions overlap to some extent .
The gastrotoxic precipitins for liver-cell and intestine-cell proteids appear to be more nearly allied than the others , if not identical .
In confirmation of the above statements I may say that if the blood serum of an immunised rabbit be examined every day , it will be found that the first precipitins to appear in the serum are those for the proteids of the stomach cells and blood serum , and that the precipitins for the liver-cell and intestine-cell proteids appear at a later date during the process of immunisation .
These results are in agreement with the statement of Nuttall(3 ) and others to the effect that precipitins are to a large extent , but not absolutely , specific .
2 .
The Identity of the Substances producing the Precipitating and Agglutinating Reactions .
The precipitin for stomach-cell proteid was removed from a solution of gastrotoxin in the way described above and the capacity of this solution to agglutinate gastric* cell granules then tested .
In order to prove that the precipitin was removed from the solution , a control was in each case prepared , in which stomach-cell proteid was added to the solution instead of gastric granules .
In this way I have been able to show that in the absence of the precipitin no agglutination of gastric granules occurs , in other words the gastrotoxin does not contain a specific agglutinin for the gastric granules .
When unwashed granules are used for the performance of the agglutination test , the gastrotoxin precipitates the albuminous fluid in which the granules float and the latter are agglutinated by this precipitate .
When washed granules are used , the gastrotoxin no doubt produces some change of a coagulative nature in the superficial layers of the granules and they are therefore agglutinated as they sink to the bottom .
On the other hand there is no doubt that the gastrotoxic agglutinin for red blood corpuscles is a specific substance , because if the gastrotoxic precipitins be removed as described above , the resulting solution still agglutinates red blood corpuscles in exactly the same strengths as untreated gastrotoxic serum does .
The serum is , of course , heated to 55 ' for half an hour before 2 q 2 Dr. C. Bolton .
[ June 10 , performing this test , in order to prevent haemolysis .
My results disagree with those of observers such as Deutsch ( 4 ) and others , who hold that specific agglutinins are formed for the protoplasmic granules of cells , and who make no mention of any precipitating action .
Their position , according to my experiments , is untenable .
3 .
The Production of Immunity to Gastrotoxin .
The effect of repeated injection of gastrotoxic serum is to produce immunity to the gastrotoxin .
It seemed that a determination of the results obtained from the continued administration of gastrotoxin would be interesting from two points of view :\#151 ; ( 1 ) With regard to whether chronic ulceration of the stomach could be produced in this way , or whether the animal would become immune .
( 2 ) If the animal became immune , whether it would develop protective substances in its blood against one or all of the constituents of the gastrotoxic serum .
In this way light would probably be thrown upon the actual cause of the ulceration , whether it was of haemorrhagic origin primarily , or due to a direct action upon the gastric cells .
Method.\#151 ; The method which I have found to be the most satisfactory is the intraperitoneal injection of inactive ( heated to 55 ' C. ) gastrotoxic serum .
The injected animal was , of course , the guinea-pig , and the serurn was derived from rabbits immunised by injection of washed guinea-pig 's stomach cells .
One injection of 5 c.c. was given each week .
In order to produce a satisfactory degree of immunity , 10 or 12 injections are necessary .
In this way I have immunised 10 guinea-pigs .
The immunity of these animals was tested both by experiments vivo and also in vitro .
1 .
Examination in vivo : Active Immunity.\#151 ; Four or five injections of the serum will not protect an animal against a lethal dose ( 10 c.c. ) of gastrotoxin , which still produces necrotic patches in the stomach .
After an animal has , however , received 10 injections ( 50 c.c. serum in all ) a lethal dose ( 10 c.c. ) of gastrotoxin fails to produce necrotic patches in the stomach of that animal ( fig. 1 , Plate 7 ) .
Passive Immunity.\#151 ; The blood serum of an actively immune animal is capable of conferring passive immunity upon another animal .
In an experiment of this kind a lethal dose ( 9 c.c. ) of active gastrotoxic serum was mixed in vitro with 6 c.c. inactive protective serum and the mixture injected into a guinea-pig weighing 360 grammes .
No lesion was produced in the stomach .
The control animal was inoculated with 9 c.c. active gastrotoxic serum and 6 c.c. inactive normal guinea-pig 's serum .
This 1907 .
] Further Studies of Serum .
537 animal showed the usual patches of necrosis in its stomach .
Normal guinea-pig 's serum is itself able to protect an animal to a slight extent ( fig. 2 ) .
2 .
Examination in vitro.\#151 ; The examination was conducted from two points of view:\#151 ; ( a ) To find out whether the tissues of an immune animal were as susceptible to the gastrotoxin as were those of a normal animal .
( b ) To ascertain what protective power the serum of the immune animal possessed with regard to preventing the action of gastrotoxin in vitro .
( a ) Action upon the Tissues of an Immune Animal : Blood Corpuscles.\#151 ; The gastrotoxic hsemolysin dissolves the red corpuscles of an immune animal to exactly the same degree as it does those of a normal guinea-pig .
Proteid Solutions.\#151 ; The stomach proteid , intestine proteid , and even the blood serum of the immune animal are all precipitated by the gastrotoxic serum .
Stomach Cells.\#151 ; The same action is seen upon the immune cells as upon the normal cells , namely , more or less clearing of the cells .
In the case of several other poisons it has been proved that the tissues of the immunised animal are still acted upon by the poison .
( b ) Protective Power of the Serum in vitro.\#151 ; The protective serum was , in all cases , heated to put the complement out of action .
Hcemolysin.\#151 ; Haemolysis is completely prevented by the immune serum .
The immune serum obtained from an animal after four injections prevents haemolysis to some extent .
After eight injections it has more power .
After 11 injections 0*5 c.c. serum completely prevented any haemolysis occurring in any of the tubes .
( Haemolytic strength of the serum used:\#151 ; 0*25 c.c. serum completely dissolved 1 c.c. 5-per-cent , suspension of guinea-pig 's corpuscles .
) Probably smaller amounts than this would suffice .
The experiments were only made , however , to demonstrate the presence of an anti-haemolysin .
Precipitin.\#151 ; I have not been able to show the presence of any antiprecipitin .
The serum of an immune animal , on being added to the gastrotoxin in sufficient amount to dissolve any precipitate that forms , fails to prevent the precipitation of stomach-cell proteid .
Action on the Gastric Cells.\#151 ; The changes in the cells are not sufficiently definite for any very accurate determinations to be made , but my impression is that the cells are as much acted upon , whether the immune serum is present or not .
This point must , therefore , for the present be left an open question .
Anti-precipitins have been described , but my results fail to confirm such observations .
Anti-haemolysins have , of course , been recognised for a long while .
Dr. C. Bolton .
[ June 10 , 4 .
The JRSle which the Gastric Juice plays in the Production of Gastric Ulceration .
I have been able to prove that the actual ulceration produced by injection of the gastrotoxic serum is brought about by the action of the gastric juice .
Although it is considered at the present day that the gastric juice plays an important part in the production of gastric ulcer , I have not been able to find any reliable experimental evidence in support of such a supposition .
Of course , it is clear that if the gastric cells are killed by any means , the gastric juice will digest them , as it does any foreign proteid substance , but I refer to self-digestion of the stomach , in which the gastric juice attacks a gastric cell which shows no deviation from the normal on microscopic examination .
The whole question of self-digestion of the stomach is extremely interesting and important , but as yet very little is known about the subject .
Method.\#151 ; My method is to neutralise the gastric juice with sodium bicarbonate solution before injection of the gastrotoxic serum .
In order to do this a soft rubber catheter is passed down the oesophagus of a guinea-pig into its stomach , and about 14 c.c. of a 4-per-cent , sodium bicarbonate solution introduced through a small funnel .
The gastrotoxic serum is then injected into the animal 's peritoneal cavity .
A control pig is at the same time injected with the same amount of the same serum .
I have done eight such experiments , and in all the cases in which the gastric juice was previously neutralised no necrosis of the stomach could be seen , but in all the control animals the usual black patches were visible in the mucous membrane of the stomach ( fig. 3 ) .
The stomach contents in the pigs which were previously treated with alkali were found to be strongly alkaline , whilst the contents of those not so treated were strongly acid .
I am not yet prepared to state the weakest strength of the soda solution which will prevent necrosis .
I have hitherto found no microscopic change in the stomach which precedes digestion .
These experiments conclusively prove what I had previously shown in another way , namely , that the initial lesion is not a haemorrhage , for in that : case neutralisation of the gastric juice would certainly not prevent a haemorrhage occurring .
It is also well known that precipitins cause no ; lesion on injection , because any precipitate formed would be dissolved by the excess of the animal 's fluids present .
It appears to me that a functional disturbance is set up in the gastric cells which renders them susceptible to \ 1907 .
] Further Studies of Serum .
539 the action of the gastric juice .
What that disturbance is and whether or not it bears any relationship to the slight hyaline change which I have described as occurring in vitro , I am not prepared to state .
I think , however , that it is a different process , because the action is destroyed by heat , no visible change is to be seen in the cells , and an antibody is formed against it .
If a solution of hydrochloric acid ( 0*5 , 1 , or 2 per cent. ) be introduced into the stomach previous to the injection of the gastrotoxic serum , the resulting necrotic lesions are more pronounced than *they are in the control animals ( fig. 4 ) .
A 2-per-cent , solution of hydrochloric acid alone produces no effect whatever when introduced into the stomach of a guinea-pig .
I think , therefore , that hyperacidity of the gastric juice must play some part in the formation of gastric ulcers ; the essential factor , however , is some alteration in the cell itself , and probably this alteration may be brought about in a variety of ways .
Conclusions .
1 .
A gastrotoxic serum contains many precipitins which are more or less specific in their actions , but these actions overlap to some extent , and absolute specificity is unknown .
2 .
There is no specific agglutinin for the gastric granules , the agglutination being brought about by the precipitins .
3 .
By repeated injection of the gastrotoxic serum , immunity is established .
The immune substance is present in the blood serum of the animal , its tissues being still susceptible to the poison .
It seems , therefore , impossible to establish a chronic lesion by gradual absorption of the gastrotoxin , if the immunising mechanism of the animal be intact .
Any lesion which is produced occurs within a few hours , as I have shown .
If a chronic lesion occurs as the result of the action of such a cyto-toxin , the explanation is probably to be found in the perpetuation of an acutely produced lesion by some cause or other .
Whether this cause be secondary bacterial infection or hyperacidity of the gastric juice remains to be proved .
4 .
The actual necrosis and ulceration of the stomach is produced by the gastric juice acting upon a cell which is functionally damaged .
Hyperacidity of the gastric juice increases the tendenby to such ulceration .
REFERENCES .
1 .
Bolton , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 135 , 1904 .
2 .
Bolton , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 77 , p. 426 , 1906 .
3 .
Nuttall , 44Blood Immunity and Relationship " ( text-book ) .
4 .
Deutsch , 44Sur le serum antihepatique .
" XIII* Cong .
Internat .
de Med. , Sect , de Bact .
et Parasitol .
, 1900 , Paris , 4 Count .
Rend .
, ' pp. 55\#151 ; 56 .
Further Studies of Gastrotoxic Serum .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Active Immunity to Gastrotoxic Serum .
Upper stomach : This is the stomach of the control animal , which was injected with 10 c.c. gastrotoxic serum .
It shows patches of necrosis of the mucous membrane .
Lower stomach : This guinea-pig had been immunised with 10 injections of gastrotoxic serum .
A lethal dose ( 10 c.c. ) of gastrotoxic serum was injected .
No lesion has resulted .
Fig. %\#151 ; Passive Immunity .
Upper stomach : This animal received a mixture of 9 c.c. gastrotoxic serum and 6 c.c. protective serum .
No lesion is to be seen .
Lower stomach : This animal received a mixture of 9 c.c. gastrotoxic serum and 6 c.c. normal serum .
Necrotic patches are to be seen in the stomach .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Neutralisation of the Gastric Juice by Sodium Bicarbonate .
Upper stomach : This is the stomach of the control animal , which was injected with 10 c.c. gastrotoxic serum .
It shows necrosis of the mucous membrane .
Lower stomach : 14 c.c. sodium bicarbonate solution ( 4 per cent. ) were introduced into this stomach , and the animal was then injected with 10 c.c. gastrotoxic serum .
No lesion has resulted .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; Hyperacidity of the Gastric Juice .
Upper stomach This is the stomach of the control animal , which was injected with 10 c.c. gastrotoxic serum .
It shows some necrosis of the mucous membrane .
Lower stomach : 27 c.c. hydrochloric acid solution ( 1 per cent. ) were introduced into this stomach , and the animal was then injected with 10 c.c. gastrotoxic serum .
Extensive necrosis of the mucous membrane has resulted , and it is much more marked than in the control animal .
Bolton .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
vol. 79 , Plate 7 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 3 .

