A paper was read , " On the Atmosphere of Mars .
" By Sir James South , F.R.S. The author refers the origin of the hypothesis of the " Extensive Atmosphere of Mars " to the observations of Cassini and Rcener , made at Briare and Paris in the year 1672 .
By the former it would seem that a star of the fifth magnitude became invisible with a three-feet telescope when at a distance of six minutes from the planet ; whilst by the latter the same star , after having undergone occultation by the planet , could not be perceived with a large telescope till Mars had receded from it a distance equal to two thirds of his own diameter ; although with the same instrument stars of similar magnitude might be easily distinguished even when in con ?
tact with the moon 's limb .
As opposed to these observations , the author advances his own .
One , dated Blackman-street , February 19 , 1822 , in which a star of the ninth magnitude as seen with the five-feet equatorial suffered no diminution of its apparent magnitude , at a distance of 103 seconds from the planet .
A second , on the night following , when the star 42 Leonis having been seen within a second of a degree of the planet 's limb prior to occultation by the planet , was perceived after emersion , when only one second and one tenth from it , the instruments of observation in this instance were the five-feet equatorial and tbethirty-inch Gregorian reflector , the former instrument being used by the author , the latter by Mr. Henry South .
The third was made at Campden Hill , on the 17th of March of the present year , with an eight-feet achromatic of six inches aperture ; and in this the star 37 Tauri was with a power of 320 seen actually touching the planet 's limb . ?
The star in neither instance suffered more diminution of brightness than might fairly be attributed to the diffused light of the planet .
From these observations , and the apparently contradictory ones of Cassini and of Rcener , the author of this paper infers , that the existence of the extensive atmosphere of Mars is a subject highly meriting further investigation .
He then directs attention to the fact that 37 Tauri was of a red colour when in contact with Mars ; whilst 42 Leonis was under similar circumstances of a blue colour : and , from inferences de ?
pendent upon observation , states , that the apparent anomaly is easily reconcilable , and that an hypothesis is not wanted to account , on the occasion alluded to , either for the red colour of the one star , or the blue colour of the other .

