]\gt ; $ Mr. G. H. Darwin on Problems connected [ Dec. 19 , running back .
It is found that the initial condition is one in whiob moon and earth rotate , as though fixed together , in mins .
; and that this condition is one of dynamical instability , so that the moon must either have fallen into the earth , or have receded from it , and have then gone through the changes which were traced backwards .
From this and other considerations it is concluded that , if the moon and earth were ever moIten viscous masses , then it is highly probable that they once formed parts of a common mass .
The rest of the paper is occupied with a number of miscellaneous propositions , and with a discussion of the physioal significance of the resuIts obtained .
I will here only mention that the case of the Martian satellites appeaxs to me a very striking corroboration of the applicability of these views to the solar system , whilst the Uranian system of satellites is , at first sight , unfavonrable .
A whole series of problems , some of them of great difficulty , still await soIution ; and not until they are solved will it be possible either decisively to accept or reject the modified form of the nebular hypo .
thesis , to which my results obviously point .
( Postscript .
) Added November 8th , 1878 .
A subsequent investigation has shown that , although the amount of heat which might be generated by internal friction in the earth might be very great , yet its distribution would be such that it could scarcely sensibly affect Sir W. Thomson 's investigation of the secular cooling of the earth .
III .
" " Problems connected with the Tides of a viscous Spheroid By G. H. DARWIN , M.A. , Triniy College , Cambridge .
by J. W. L. GLAISHER , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper certain problems are treated , which were alluded to in two previous on the Tides Precession of a viscous For brevity the spheroid is spoken of as the earth , and the disturbing body as the moon .
I. Secular Distortion of the , and ' Tides of the second order .
The distortion ises from the unequal distribution of the tidal frictional couplc over the surface of the spheroid .
*Read before the Royal Society on and December 19 878 .
] with the Tides of a iscous Sheroid .
195 In forming the theory of tides , it was assumed that the action the tidal protuberance on any element of the surface of the mean here was entirely normal to the sphere , and consisted of the weight the prismatic element of the tidal protuberance , which stands on element of surface .
This is not rigorously correct , because , if it ere so , there would be no couples tending to aIter the diurnal )tation and obliquity of the earth .
The effects of these couples were onsidered in the paper on ' Precession but the tidal protuberance there assumed to be instantaneously rigidly connected with the lean sphere .
The present problem is concerned with the non-rigid , ttachment of the protuberance to the sphere .
A sphere is supposed to be distorted into any form differing ininitesimally from the true sphere , and to be acted on by any external listurbing potential .
It is then found what stress must be , npposed to act across the base of any prismatic element of the pro , nberance , in order that the equilibrium of that element may be mainbained , the pressures transmitted by the four contiguous elements being taken into account .
It appears that if the protuberance has bhe equilibrium form , due to the external disturbing potential , then there is no tangential stress between the true sphere and the protuberance .
But since the tides of a viscous spheroid lag , the form of the viscous tidal is not one of equilibrium , and there is such a stress across the of each element of protuberance .
It is obvious that these tangential stresses may produce continued distortion of the spheroid .
The problem , as applicable to the earth , is treated in simple case where the obliquity to the ecliptic is zero , and where there is ] one disturbing body or moon .
The sum of the moments of the tangential stresses about the of rotation gives the tidal frictional couple , and its form is found to with that found by a different method in the paper on " " Precession Whcn the earth 's rotation is taken in account , it appears that the component along the meridian of tangential stress at any of is periodic in time ; whilst one part of component perpendicular to the meridian is pel'iodic , and the other non-periodic .
The periodic parts of the component stresses give risc to small tidcs of the second order as the squttre of the encrating force ) , and are neglected , but the non-periodic pal't gives risc to secular distortion .
Since the earth 's rotation as a wholc is retarded , erefore t distorting tangential stresses all over the surface constitute a equilibrating system of forces , and in order to the of the globe , they must be deemed to be equilibrated by forces due to the inertia of slackening diurnal rotation .
Mr. G. H. Darwin on Problems connected [ Dec. effective forces givo bodily forces in the interior , the sum of whose moments about the axis of rotation is equal and opposite to the tidal frictional couple .
The problem is thus reduced to finding the tortion of a sphere subject to bodily force equilibrated by surfaee action , and it is solved by Sir W. Thomson 's method of finding the internal strain of an elastic sphere under like conditions , although here the bodily force has no corresponding potential function .
The solution shows that the distortion consists in a simple drical motion round the axis of rotation , each point moving from east to west with a linear velocity proportional to the cube of its distance from axis .
The distortion the surface of the globe consists of a motion in longitude from west to east , relatively to a point in the equator , the rate of of longitude proportional to the square of the sine of the latitude .
Numerical culation shows , however , that in the later stages of the 's history ( the development being supposed to follow the laws found in the paper on " " Precession the distortion must have been very small .
With a certain assumed viscosity , it is found that , looking 45,000,000 years , a point in latitude would lie further east than at present .
From this it follows , that this cause can have had little or nothing to do with the ] of geological strata .
As , however , the distorting force varies inversely as the sixth power of the moon 's distance , it seems possible that in the very earliest stages this c , ause may have had sensible effects .
It is , therefore , noteworthy that the wrinkles raised on the turface would run north and south in the equatorial regions , with a tendency towards north-east and south-west the , and north-west and south- east in the southern one .
The intensity of the .
force at the surface varies as the square of the cosine of the latitude .
An inspection of a map of the earth shows that the continents ( or large wrinkles ) conform more or less to this law .
But Professor Schiapparelli 's map of NLrs*is more striking than that of the earth , when viewed by the ( of theory ; but ) are some objections to its application to the case of Mars .
If , however , there is any truth in , then it must be postulated , that after the ] were formed the crust attained sufficient local idity to resist the obliteration of the Wl.inkles , ilst the mean figure of the earth adjusted itself to the ellipticity appropriate to the slackcniog diurnal rotation ; also , it must bc supposed that the general direction of the existing contincnts has lasted history .
The sccond question , considered in the first , denls with the femol .
della Societ degli lialli 1878 , vol. the Iides of a Spheroid .
{ n-l.igid attachment of the permanent equatorial protuberanco to the lealn sphere .
It is shown that the precessional and nutational coupIes rill give rise to certain tides of the second order ( varying as the tideting force multiplied by the precessional constant ) , but ]lot to ny secular shifting of face over the interior , as has been suposed would be the case by some Wl.iters .
II .
of Heat ) Internal ctiojl , the cooling of Sphaeroid .
In the paper on " " Precession\ldquo ; it WflS s by the eory of ' Jhat a very mount of heftt have been nted 1lsidc eal.th by friction , but the ) no to distribution .
The oblem is here considered by amount of work done per unit of time on each element of the in the course of the tidal distortion .
The gregate work done on the hole globe is found to same ns that given by simple considerations of energy .
Tho of work is equal to the tidal fiictional couple multiplied tive angular velocity of the moon and ; but this simple out of a complex law of internal tributi ) .
By fnr part of the work done , or heat genelftted , is found to be the portion .
My first impression was that the of heat , { be generated , would serve to in part the observed inc ] of round t ; but the solution of a certain problcltl cerning the cooling of an infinite of rock 8,000 miles which heat is being genernted .
to a certain ) of tion , shows that the heat could not possibly explain .
rate of increase of underground temperature near 's surf : of more than 1o F. in 2,600 feet .
It follows , therefore , that Sir W. Thomson 's ation of ) secular cooling of the earth cannot be se1lsibly affected by lusc .
III .
The Effects of Inertia in the Forced of Eloestic Spheres .
In the theory of tides used itherto the effects of havo been neglected .
It was , however , shown that this defect in the theory could not have an important influence , unless the frequency of tidcs much greater than that of those generated by the nloon the present time .
Nevertheless it was desirable to the effect of inertia actually is .
This part of the present paper contains a second pproxim i011 ) the theory of tides of a viscous spheroid .
VOL. XXVIII .
form of the tidal protuberance , when the tide-generating potential is of the second order of harmonics .
It is as follows : be the radius , the density , mean gravity , and the " " speed\ldquo ; of the tide , the alteration of phase ; so that is the " " lag and the coefficient of viscosity .
Then And the height of tide is equal to the equilibrium tide of a perfectly fluid spheroid multiplied by\mdash ; This shows that the defect of the first approximation was such that for a given speed , the lag is a little , and for a given lag , the height of tide is a little greater than was supposed .
It is then shown that this correction to the theory of tides will scarcely make any appreciable difference in the results of the integration , by which the secular changes in the configuration of the earth and moon , were found in the paper on " " Precession and especially that it makes difference as to the critical relationship between the month and day , for which the rate of change of obliquity vanishes .
The most important influence of the new theory is on the time , and it appears that the time occupied by the changes , above referred to , is overstated by ] part .
A comparison is then made of the preceding theory with that of the forced vibrations of a fluid sphere .
This shows that ] is zero when viscosity graduates into idity ) , the which occurs in the above expressions should properly be or .
The discrepancy between the 79 and 75 is ined by the fact that in approaching the problem of { iuidity from the side of iscosity , we stlppose in the approximation , that the motion of tho interior of the sphere is tical , whereas in reality it is not so .
In conclusion , it is proved that analysis , of almost identically the same character as that for the problem of the viscous sphere : is applicable to the case of an incompressible elastic sphere , and that ertia the fact of increasing the ellipticity of the tidal spheroid , as given 878 .
] On the lnfluence of Light upon otoplasm .
Sir W. Thomson 's statical theory , in the proportion of unity , fvhere is the speed of the tide , and is the quantity defined 1 Thomson and Tait 's Not .
Phil. , S840 ( 28 ) , the coeffiient of rigidity .
The last part of the paper contains a discussion of results , and a 1 summary of what precedes . .
" " On the Influence of Light upon Protoplasm By ARTHUR DOWNS , M.D. , and P. BLUNT , M.A. Oxon .
Commullicated by J. MARSHALL , F.R.S. , Surgeon to University College Hospital .
Received October 9 , 1878 .
This paper is in continuation of , and supplemenary to , a previous communication*in which we recorded the first part of an investigation on the effect of light upon and other organisms associated with putrefaction and decay .
The chief conclusions to which those observations led us were briefly as follow:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) Light is inimical to , and under favourable conditions may wholly prevent , the development of these nisms ; its action on being more energetic than upon the mycelial ( and torulaceous ) fungi which are prone to appear in cuItivation-fluids .
( 2 .
) The fitness of the cultivation-fluid as a nidus is not impaired by insolation .
We found also that tubes , containing a cultivation-fluid and edbb with cotton-wool , when removed to a dark ] after exposure to ) sun for a sufficient period , remained perfecfly clear and free from organisms for months , and we naturally thought that the contents had been reduced to permanent sterility .
The following facts , however , compel us to suspend for the present cur conclusions on this point .
Of the many tubes which we insolated last year we finally kept only three .
Two of these\mdash ; containing Pasteur soIution of the composition iven in our former paper\mdash ; had been exposed to for three ecks in June , 1877 ; the tube contained urinc and had been insolated for a'oout two months\mdash ; commencing July ch case corresponding tubes which were covered with laminated lead , so ; to exclude , had swarmed wibh Bacteria in the coursc of two or three days , but the three tubes of which we speak not only were perfectly pellucid at the time they were romoved from the light but , although kept in a warm room , remained clear all through the wintcr .
On February 25th , 1878 , however , \mdash ; eight months after we had place * ' Proc. Rov .
Soc vol. xxvi , p. 488 .

