11 .
" On the Automatic Registration of Magnetometers and Meteorological Instruments by Photography."-No .
III .
By Charles Brooke , M.B. , F.R.S. The author describes the construction of an apparatus for regis .
tering the variation of the thermometer and psychrometer on one sheet of paper .
As in the apparatus for registering the vertical force magnetometer , described in a former paper , the photographic paper is placed between two concentric cylinders , placed with the axis vertical , and carried round on a revolving plate or turn-table by the hour-hand of a time-piece , which makes half a revolution in twentyfour hours ; thus each half of the paper presents a record of the variation of one instrument during twenty-four hours .
The scales of the instruments are continuously impressed on the paper by placing fine wires opposite each degree across the aperture through which the light falls on the stem ; the light transmitted by the empty bore is intercepted by these wires , and the darkened portion of the paper is marked by a series of parallel pale lines corresponding to each degree : thus the distortion of the scale arising from the varying direction of the pencils of light is corrected .
Every tenth degree is marked by a eoarser wire , and therefore a broader line , as also the points 32 , 54 ?
, 76 ?
, 98 ?
; one at least of these points will occur on each register , and the position of the extra broad line serves to identify the part of the scale to which the register relates .
An alteration in the mode of adjusting the wick of the camphine lamps described in a former paper is mentioned , by which the chance 4 of smoking is considerably diminished ; likewise the successful application of naphthalized gas , and of an oil-lamp , to photographic registration .
The paper concludes with the description of a new method of determining the scale and temperature coefficients of the force magnetometers , by which a greater degree of accuracy is presumed to be attained than by the methods ordinarily employed .
Two magnets , designed for self-registering instruments for the observatories at Cambridge and Toronto , having been submitted to this method , gave consistent results which indicate the law of the temperature coefficient to be sensibly different from that which has hitherto been assumed .

