]\gt ; Lunar of in a Well cxtory , Richmond .
By E. G. , A.R.C.Sc .
, D.I. , B.Sc. , F.li .
Met .
Soc. ( Communicated by Sir Napier Shaw , F.R.S. Received December 11 , 1917 .
) ( Abstract .
) In a paper communicated to the Royal Meteorological Society , was shown that the experimental well at Kew Observatory responded to the lunar fortnightly oscillation of mean level in the River Thames , which is 300 yards from the Observatory at its nearest point .
The sensitiveness of water-level to barometric pressure has also been investigated , and the results have been given in a paper recently read before the Royal Society .
The present paper deals with the effects of the short-period tides in the solar and lunar , and Two-hourly measurements , both in lunar and solar time , were made on the traces obtained during the first two years , , 1914-August , 1916 , omitting days of very irregular movement .
Monthly mean inequalities were then computed .
Well marked solar and lunar diurnal variations were found in each month , taking the form of double oscillations with two maxima and two minima during the 24 hours .
The range of movement was in each case found to be associated with the mean height of the wate .
in the well , the correlation coefficients ( lunar ) and ( solal ) .
A similar relation had been previously found to exist in the case of barometric Harmonic coefficients we1e computed for means of groups of months , intermediate , and low levels , the classification being the , same as that described in the paper on the effects of barometric presstlre .
S * In the press .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 94 , pp. ( 1917 ) . .
cit. , p. 172 .
, .
169 .
Lunar and Solar Diurnal riations iWell at Kew .
477 Variation .
( i ) Mean of all lesults , ( ii ) High level , ( iii ) Intermediate level sin , level .
Amplitudes are in millimetres , and is reckoned from the time of the moon 's northerly meridian transit at the rate of per lunar hour .
The chief points of interest in the above expressions are\mdash ; ( 1 ) The decrease in amplitude of all terms except the first with di1ninishing water-level .
( 2 ) The retardation in the phase of M2 .
which represents a change of hours between high and low levels .
( 3 ) The relative nificance of .
In the Thames , near Richmond , the , ratio of to appears to be about The value of the first order amplitude in ( iii ) is co1lsidered to ) Solar Variation .
( v ) Mean of results , ( vi ) High level , ( vii ) Internlediate level , ( vui ) Low level , is reckoned from midnight G.M. 478 in a Welf at Excel ) in the case of levels , where has a significant amplitude , the first and second order terms are the only ones .
The iations in anlplitnde and of the semi-diurnal osclllation are similar in character to the lunar results but the actual change of phase in the solar term amounts to only hours between low levels .
The ratio of to in the river is .
The fact that the corresponding ratio in the well was in all cases much greater ygested that the solar semi-diurnal oscillation was not due solely to the solar tide .
Using results given in the previous communication we may elinlinate the diurnal variation of barometric pressure , when we are left with th - following expressions for the effects of solar tides .
Variation of due to ( ix ) Mean of all results , ( x ) High level ( xi ) Intermediate level , ( xu ) Low level .
The process of elimination is subject to considerable error on account of the smallness of the quantities dealt with .
The amplitudes of the semi-diurnal oscillation are , however , of the expected order of magnitude ; and the ratio of to for high level is in good agreement with the result from the River Thames .
The change of phase between high and low levels represents a lag of days , a result similar to that by the lunar Combining the lunar and solar semi diurnal tidal oscillations it is computed that\ldquo ; -tides\ldquo ; occur in the well days after they occur in the river , so that this represents the actual time taken by solar and lunar semi-diurnal ways to travel through the subsoil from the river to the well .
The corresponding time in the case of the hCly tide is days .
For valuable assistance in this enquiry my grateful acknowledgments are due to Dr. C. Chree , Superintendent of Kew Observatory , and to Mr. H. W. T. oberts , who kindly supplied tidal data for a number of stations on the River Thames .

