VII .
' Reproduction of Non-Nitrogenous Acids from Amid ic Acids .
" Byr PETEiR GRixss , Esq. Communicated by Dr. blor MANN .
teceived Mfay 24 , 1861 .
In several previous communications I have pointed out the existence of a peculiar double acid , C14 11n N3 04 , formed by the action of nitrous acid on amidobenzoic acid .
This acid , which I have designated as amaidodiazobenzoic acid , when again submitted in the presence of hot alcohol to the action of nitrous acid , is changed according to the following equation .
CL41 , ,N3 , +2GC , H6O+NO , = 27 , H,0 , +2C2I , H 0+2H20+4N .
Double acid .
Alcohol .
Nitrous Non-nitrogeAldehyde .
acid .
nous acid .
The non-nitrogenous acid thus reproduced exhibits the compopition of benzoic acid ; it differs , however , in its properties essentially from that acid .
Since the publication of Kolbe and Lautemann 's experiments on salylic acid , I have found that the acid in question is identical with the latter .
Salylic acid may be much more readily obtained by submitting an alcoholic solution of amido-benzoic acid itself to the action of nitrous acid .
C,7 7NO,2+C2 HO +HN02 = C7 H02+C2 H,0+2 H20+2N .
AmidobenAlcohol .
Nitrous Salyi.c Aldehyde .
zoie acid .
acid .
acid .
Nearly all the amidic acids I had an opportunity of examining exhibit a similar deportment , furuishi ?
ig a non-nitrogenous acid isomeric or identical with the acid which , by conversion into a nitrocompound aui stubsequent reduction , had given rise to the formation of the anillic acid .
In the followihg cases I have experimentally established this transformation .
C7 o 02 C H , ( NO ) 0 C,711(Hz N ) 0 C7 H.0 Benzoic acid .
Nitrobenzoic acid .
Amidobenzoic acid .
Salylic acid .
C8S S 02 C H7 ( NO2 ) 0 , C8H17 , ( 2N)02 C8 H"02 Toluic acid .
Nitrotoluic acid .
Amidotoluic acid .
Homologue of salylic acid .
CS 11 08 C8 7 ( NO ) ?
Cs 7 ( H 8 N ) 03 C 8S 3 C0 C ( NO2)O:0 C0 ( H(N)0O CIH .
OI Aiisic sced .
Nitranisic acid .
Amidaniisic acid .
Anisic acid .
C6114 ( N02)O CeE(NO2)3 0 CN3T(NO , )2(CN)0 CNH(NO20 Diriitroplhiylic Trinitrophenylic Dinitramidophenylic Dinitrophlenylic acid .
acid .
acid .
acid .
It deserves to be noticed , that while amidobenzoic and amidotoluic acdd furnish acids isomeric respectively with benzoic and toluic acid* , anisic and dinitrophenylic acid are re-obtained with all their original properties .
The properties of salylic acid , and of its derivatives , render it probable , that salylic acid-and not benzoic as was hitherto assumed-is in the group of aromatic acids the true representative of acetic acid .
Salylic , chlorosalylic , and salicylic acids exhibit in fact the same intimate relations which obtain between acetic , chloracetic , and glycolic acids .
It is true the same relations may be traced in the composition of benzoic , chlorobenzoic , and oxyben* The acid C8 Hs 02 , described by Strecker , probably belongs to a different group of compounds .
In its transformations , and more especially in its conversion under the influence of oxidizing agents , into oil of bitter almonds , it differs both from toluie acid and the homologue of salylic acid.-P .
G. zoic acids , but the chemical deportment of these substances is altogether different from that of the analogous derivatives of acetic acid .
Further experiments are necessary to establish this view ; the existence of two varieties of lactic acid , and of alanine and sarcosine , which are both represented by the formula C3 H7 NO , , appears to indicate that similar isomerisms obtain also in the group of fatty acids .
The above observations were collected in Dr. Hlofmann 's laboratory .

