On some Circumstances relating to the Economy of Bees .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. President of the Horticultural Society .
Read May 22 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1828 , p. 319 .
] The author had already stated , in a former communication to the Royal Society , his having noticed that for several days previous to the settling of a swarm of bees in the cavity of a hollow tree adapted to their reception , a considerable number of these insects were incessantly employed in examining the state of the tree , and particularly of every dead knot above the cavity which appeared likely to admit water .
He has since had an opportunity of observing that the bees who performed this task of inspection , instead of being the same individuals as he had formerly supposed , were in fact a continual succession of different bees ; the whole number in the course of three days being such as to warrant the inference that not a single labouring bee ever emigrates in a swarm without having seen its proposed future habitation .
He finds that the same applies not only to the place of permanent settlement , but also to that where the bees rest temporarily , soon after swarming , in order to collect their numbers .
The swarms , which were the subjects of Mr. Knight 's experiments , showed a remarkable disposition t3 unite under the same queen .
On one occasion a swarm , which had arisen from one of his hives , settled upon a bush at a distance of about twenty-five yards ; but instead of collecting together into a compact mass , as they usually do , they remained thinly dispersed for nearly half an hour ; after which , as if tired of waiting , they singly , one after the other , and not in obedience to any signal , arose and returned home .
The next morning a swarm issued from a neighbouring hive , and proceeded to the same bush upon which the other bees had settled on the preceding day ; collecting themselves into a mass , as they usually do when their queen is present .
In a few minutes afterwards a very large assemblage of bees arushed from the hive from which the former swarm had issued , and proceeded directly to the one which had just settled , and instantly united with them .
The author is led from these and other facts to conclude that such unions of swarms are generally , if not always , the result of previous concert and arrangement .
The author proceeds to mention some circumstances which induce him to believe that sex is not given to the eggs of birds , or to the spawn of fishes or insects , at any very early period of their growth .
Female ducks , kept apart from any male bird till the period of laying eggs approached , when a musk drake was put into company with them , produced a numerous offspring , six out of seven of which proved to be males .
The mule fishes found in many rivers where the common trout abounds , and where a solitary salmon is present , are uniformly of the male sex ; hence the spawn must have been without sex at the time it was deposited by the female .
The author states that he has also met with analogous circumstances in the vegetable world , respecting the sexes of the blossoms of monoecious plants .
When the heat is excessive , compared with the quantity of light which the plant receives , only male flowers appear ; but if the light be in excess , female flowers alone are produced .

