An Account of an Invention for giving Light in explosive Mixtures of Fire-damp in Coal Mines , by consuming the Fire-damp .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read January 11 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 23 .
] This contrivance consists in covering the flame of any lamp or candle with a wire sieve , the apertures of which may be as large as +Ath of an inch square .
When a cylinder of wire gauze , covered at top with the same gauze , is closely fitted to a lamp , and surrounds its flame so that there is no aperture but those of the gauze , if the little lantern so constructed be introduced into the most explosive mixtures of carburetted hydrogen and air , the cylinder becomes filled with a bright flame at its interior surface , which continues to burn as long as the mixture remains explosive .
When the carburetted hydrogen constitutes no more than -rVth of the mixture , the flame of the wick continues to burn surrounded by the flame of the fire-damp ; but when the proportion is as 1 to 7 , the flame of the wick disappears .
When the apertures of the gauze are of the largest size , the flame is the most brilliant , and the wire of which it consists becomes ignited , but still without occasioning explosion of the mixture external to the lamp .
Similar experiments were also made with hydrogen ( not carburetted ) , and with the same results .
But in this case the gauze was of the finest kind , with 6400 apertures in the square inch ; and since the thickness of the wire was -I-th of an inch , the apertures themselves were about -i-b-th of an inch square .
With gauze of this construction a flame may be introduced even into a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen , and burn this mixture at the inner surface of the lantern , without communicating its flame to the mixture externally , even though the wires become intensely red hot .
After such trials of the security of this little apparatus , the author has no hesitation in recommending it for adoption by the collier , who will require for his security nothing more than a little wire cage to surround the flame of his lamp , and thus , at the cost of a few pence , will procure a light as long as there is a sufficient supply of fire-damp , without any further expense .

