452 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular " On Electric Touch and the Molecular Changes produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , I).Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , E.E.S. Received January 29 , \#151 ; Read February 8 , 1900 .
[ * In the various investigations on the properties of electric waves , one property has not yet attracted so much attention as it deserves\#151 ; r the action of long ether waves in modifying the molecular structure of matter .
Apart from the interest attached to the relation between ether , electricity , and matter , the subject is of importance as affording not only a very important verification of the identity of visible and electric radiation , but also establishing the continuity of all radiation phenomena .
These phenomena occupy the borderland between physics and chemistry , and their study may therefore be expected to throw much light on several subjects at present imperfectly understood .
The study of the action of electricity and of ether waves on matter in the form of solids presents many difficulties , owing to the great complexity of atomic and molecular aggregation which characterises the solid state of matter .
But the phenomena often met with in theory and practice is , unfortunately , in reference to matter in a solid state .
The means of investigation are almost wanting : chemical tests give us no information , for they tell us ( and that in a few cases only ) of the ultimate change in the mass as a whole , and not of the protean transformations that are constantly taking place in it under the action of ever-varying changes in physical environments .
In the following investigations the difficulties mentioned above were constantly present , and the attempts to meet them may therefore be of some interest .
] In my former paperf I described the contact-sensitiveness of various elementary substances to electric radiation .
It was shown that though many substances exhibit a diminution of contact-resistance , there are others which show an increase of resistance\#151 ; an increase which , in certain cases , lasts only during the impact of electric waves , the sensitive substance automatically recovering its original conductivity on the cessation of radiation .
There are thus produced two opposite effects , either an increase or a diminution of resistance , depending on the nature of the substance .
The effect of increase of contact-resistance is not an exceptional or isolated phenomenon , but is as normal and definite under varied con* Matter in brackets [ ] added March , 1900 .
+ " On a Self-recovering Coherer , and the Study of the Cohering Action of Different Metals , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 .
Changes 'produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
453 ditions as the diminution of resistance noticed in the case of iron filings .
These two specifically different effects have to be recognised , and it would be advisable , to avoid misunderstanding , to use a simple term to indicate both these effects , and distinguish them from one another , by calling the one positive and the other negative .
The term \#171 ; coherence " applied to the normal diminution of resistance exhibited by certain metals by the action of electric waves cannot be applied in all cases , as there is , as has been said before , another class of substances which exhibits under normal conditions an increase of resistance .
The term " decoherence " has been used to indicate the effect of mechanical tapping on fatigued substances of the former class ; this produces an increase of resistance , and at the same time restores the sensitiveness .
The action of tapping on fatigued specimens of the latter class is , however , a diminution of resistance .
I have shown in a former paper that the seat of sensitiveness is confined mainly to the surface layer of the sensitive substance , and that the nature of the substratum has little or no effect on the sensitiveness .
Thus , a substance which exhibits a strong diminution of resistance , if coated with an extremely thin layer of a substance of the other class which shows an increase of resistance , will now exhibit an increase of resistance .
It is seen that the action is one of the bounding layer or skin of the sensitive substance .
There is a Sanskrit word , twach , which means the skin ; and as the phenomenon dealt with in the present paper is one of sensitiveness of I shall use the expression " electric touch " in the restricted sense of contact sensitiveness to electric stimulus , the touch being regarded as when electric oscillation produces an increase of conductivity or diminution of resistance , and negative when the contrary effect is produced .
Substances which exhibit a decrease of resistance will be called positive , and those which show an increase will be regarded as negative .
The above terms are to be regarded as convenient substitutes for long descriptive phrases .
The phenomenon of contact-sensitiveness seems at first to be extremely anomalous , and there appears to be little relation between substances which exhibit similar electric sensitiveness .
Taking iron as an example of a very sensitive substance , it is seen to be easily oxidised , and from this it may be inferred that a slight oxidation on the surface is favourable for sensitiveness .
This view obtains some support from the consideration that the so-called noble metals are not as sensitive as iron .
But the metals nickel and cobalt , which are bright and not easily oxidised , are also very sensitive .
The very sensitive metals ifori , nickel , and cobalt are all magnetic , and it might be thought that magnetic property is favourable for electric sensitiveness , but a dial magnetic substance like bismuth is also found to exhibit a fairly strong sensitiveness .
Again , from the strong diminution of resistance exhibited by magnesium , it may be inferred that the sensitiveness depends 454 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular on the electro-positive character of the metal ; but potassium , one of the most electro-positive metals , exhibits an unusual increase of resistance , a property which it will be shown in a future paper it shares with some of the most electro-negative elements .
There is one property , however , which at first would seem to be in some way related to the sensitiveness of metals\#151 ; the volatility of metals under the cathodic stimulus , investigated by Sir William Crookes , * who gives the following list of metals , arranged according to their volatility :\#151 ; Palladium 108 Copper ... .
40 Gold 100 Cadmium ... .
31-99 Silver 80-68 Nickel ... .
10-99 Lead 75-04 Indium ... .
10-49 Tin 56-96 Iron ... .
5-5 Brass 51-58 Magnesium ... .'1 very Platinum 44 Aluminium . .
j slight In this list the substances which are most volatile , Pd , Au , Ag , are not very sensitive , whereas Fe , Al , Mg , which are least volatile , are strongly sensitive .
But the above series does not exactly coincide with the series of electric sensitiveness .
Again , the volatility of platinum is retarded in hydrogen gas , but an experiment carried out to determine the sensitiveness of platinum in hydrogen failed to show any great increase in the sensitiveness .
None of the above suppositions give any satisfactory explanation of the numerous anomalies in the contact-sensitiveness of metals .
It then appeared that the observed effect is not due to a single cause but to many causes .
An observer studying the dilatation of a gas under reduced pressure , and ignorant of the effect of temperature , will doubtless encounter many anomalies .
In the phenomena of contactsensitiveness the variables are , however , far more numerous , and the different possible combinations are practically unlimited .
It therefore became necessary , by a long and tedious process of successive elimination , to find out the causes which are instrumental in producing the observed effect ; the results obtained throw some light on this intricate subject .
The following are some of the principal directions in which a systematic inquiry was carried out:\#151 ; A. On the difference between mass action and molecular or atomic action , with reference to the phenomenon of contact-sensitiveness .
B. On the change of sign of response in a receiver due to a varia- tion of the radiation intensity .
* Crookes , ' Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 50 .
c. Changes produced in Matter Electric Waves .
455 On the physico-chemical changes produced in a sensitive substance by the action of electric radiation , and on the radiationD .
The phenomena of electric reversal and of radio-molecular oscillation .
, , E. On " fatigue " and the action of mechanical tapping and other disturbances by which the sensitiveness of a fatigued receiver may be restored .
F. On the nature of the passage of electricity through imper ec contacts , and the influence of various physical agents on the G. On^thesystematic study of the contact-sensitiveness exhibited by metals , non-metals , and metalloids .
H. On the contact-sensitiveness exhibited by alloys and compounds .
I intend to treat the above subjects in some detail , and m the present paper will especially deal with the first five lines of investigation These , it is hoped , will afford an explanation of some of the most perplexing anomalies .
All the subjects mentioned above are more or less interdependent , but their treatment in one paper would make the subject very complicated .
It would be easier to take a more generalised and complete view of the subject as a whole , alter each of the above-mentioned inquiries has been separately considers With reference to the flow of electricity through imperfect contacts , need only mention here that the phenomenon seldom obeys Ohm s law .
In many instances the phenomenon appears more allied to the discharge of electricity through a gaseous medium .
Mass Action and Molecular Action .
Of the attempts made to explain the action of contact-sensitiveness , Professor Lodge 's theory of coherence has been the most suggestive .
The coalescence of water and mercury drops in Lord Rayleig i s experiments , and Professor Lodge 's observation of the welding of two metallic spheres by powerful oscillatory discharge m the neighbourhood , apparently lend much support to the theory of electric welding , which explains in a simple manner the diminution of contact-resistance of various metallic filings when subjected to strong electric variation .
On this theory it follows that all imperfect contacts should exhibit a diminution of resistance when subjected to electric radiation .
In carrying out a systematic investigation of the contact-sensitiveness of metals , I , however , found that there are substances , of which potassium may be taken as a type , which exhibit an increase of resistance .
Potassium is not a solitary instance ; I have found a large number of elements exhibiting this action ; the number of compounds which exhibits a similar action is also considerable .
Other experiments will 456 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular be presently described which would show that the theory of coherence is inadequate .
From the above it would appear that the subject is far more complex than was at first supposed .
For various reasons it would be best to distinguish between the two different actions , which may conveniently be described as mass action and molecular action .
Mass Action.\#151 ; By this is meant the general action , say , between two masses when placed in a very strong electric field .
Under the given circumstance , sparking may take place between the bodies , and the two may thus be welded together .
From what has been said it will be seen that such action is non-d\#151 ; that is to say , the action will be the same whatever the chemical or physical nature of the substance may be .
The best way of showing this action is with drops of liquid , with surface contamination , for any incipient welding will be at once exhibited by the complete coalescence of the drops .
The non-discriminative nature of the action is shown in a striking manner in the following experiment .
I may mention here that fragments of solid potassium , and in a lesser degree sodium , exhibit an increase of contact-resistance under the action of electric waves .
I made a liquid alloy of potassium and sodium , and drops of this alloy were allowed to float on the stratum separating dense Rangoon oil from lighter kero-sine , the alloy being of an intermediate density .
The drops coalesced when placed in an intense alternating electric field .
The next experiment was made with potassium heated under melted ( hard ) paraffin .
By stirring the molten K with a glass rod , the metal was broken up into numerous spherical drops .
These also coalesced under similar electric influence .
It is , however , to be borne in mind ( 1 ) that in the above experiment the substance is in the form of a liquid , and that in this particular condition certain important molecular changes , to be presently described , cannot very well take place ; ( 2 ) that the conditions of the experiment are abnormal .
Experiments will be presently described which will show that the observed variation of conductivity produced by radiation is not due to coherence , but to certain molecular changes of an allotropic nature .
Molecular Action.\#151 ; By this I mean the allotropic modification produced in a substance by the action of electric waves , the allotropic change being due to a difference in the atomic or molecular aggregation .
It will be shown that such molecular change does take place by the action of electric waves , and that all the observed effects of variation of resistance of the sensitive substance may be explained on the theory of allotropic transformation due to the above cause .
The effect due to molecular changes in a substance is also expected to be modified by the chemical nature of the substance ; thus the molecular action due to radiation , giving rise ultimately to the variation of conductivity of the sensitive substance , will be , in contradistinction to the non-discriminative mass action .
Changes produced in Matter by Electric .
457 Is the effect of radiation due to'non-discriminative coherer action or to the discriminative molecular action 1 That the effect is discriminative .
, and therefore molecular , appears to be decisively proved by the experiments described below .
If further proofs are necessary , they are afforded by the characteristic curves of variation of current with the E.M.F. given by the three types of substances , positive , negative , and neutral ; by the continuity of radiation effect on matter ; and , lastly , by certain remarkable results I obtained , which show that the effect of ether waves on elementary substances depends on the chemical nature of the substance ; in other words , the effect is found to be a periodic function of the atomic weight of the substance .
A detailed account of the above will be given in a future paper .
On the Change of Sign of Response in the , due to a Variation Intensity of Radiation .
After finding the increase of resistance exhibited by certain substances , I wished to see whether these showed any further difference as compared to substances which exhibit a diminution of resistance .
In my determination of the " Index of Refraction of Sulphur for the Electric Ray , " * I used the method of total reflection .
I often noticed that just before total reflection , when the intensity of the transmitted beam became comparatively feeble , the receiver indicated an increase instead of the usual diminution of resistance .
Professor Lodge mentions in one of his papers that an iron filing coherer exhibits an increase of resistance when acted on by feeble radiation .
Thus , if positive substances like iron give a negative reaction , with the diminution of radiation intensity , negative substances may be expected to give a positive reaction with feeble radiation .
Very sensitive substances are , however , not so well adapted for an exhibition of this reversed action , possibly because the range of sensibility is comparatively great .
But it is not difficult to demonstrate this property in the case of moderately sensitive substances .
The following experiment with a moderately negative substance ( arsenic ) and a moderately positive substance ( osmium ) will bring out this interesting peculiarity in a clear manner .
The intensity of incident radiation may be varied in two ways\#151 ; ( 1 ) by removing the radiator further and further from the receiver , or ( 2 ) by using polarised radiation , whose intensity may be varied by the rotation of an analyser .
In the experiment to be described , the first method was adopted .
Experiments with Arsenic Receiver.\#151 ; A receiver was made of freshly-powdered arsenic .
The radiator used emitted radiation of strong intensity .
It was at first placed close to the receiver , and there was produced a moderate increase of resistance .
It was then removed * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1895 , 45 S Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch , and the Molecular further and further , and the increase of resistance became less and less .
When the distance was increased to 25 cm .
the action was reduced to zero .
When the distance was increased to 30 cm .
there was a diminution of resistance , showing that 25 cm .
is , in this case , the critical distance .
The receiver continued to exhibit a diminution until the radiator was removed to a distance of 70 cm .
, when the radiation intensity was too feeble to affect the receiver .
Now this critical distance may approximately be regarded as a measure of the sensibility of the substance .
In this particular case the electric touch has a negative sign .
If by any means ( some of which will be described later on ) the substance becomes more sensitive , more negative , the critical distance will be increased .
On the contrary , if the sensitiveness becomes less ( the substance tending towards positive direction ) the critical distance will be decreased .
The application of this principle is of importance as affording a means of determining the variation of sensitiveness under different conditions .
Experiments with Osmium Receiver.\#151 ; Substances which are feebly positive give a diminution of resistance when the radiator is close to the receiver , and an increase of resistance when the radiator is beyond the critical distance .
Thus the critical distance for an osmium receiver ( whose normal action is moderately positive ) was found to be about 250 cm .
The radiator at a distance of 300 cm .
produced a deflection of - 3 divisions in a galvanometer placed in the receiver , circuit .
But at the distance of 200 cm .
the deflection became + 4 , and at the reduced distance of 50 cm .
the deflection became + 150 divisions .
In order to avoid confusion , we may choose to call the effect due to strong intensity of radiation as the normal action .
The sign of normal action might further be verified , wherever possible , by obtaining a reverse action with feeble radiation intensity .
Molecular Changes produced in Matter by the Action of Electric Waves .
A sensitive receiver made , say , of iron powder , has its conductivity suddenly increased by the action of electric radiation ; but the sensitiveness of the receiver is lost after the first response , and it is necessary to tap it to restore the sensitiveness .
On the theory of coherence , the loss of sensitiveness is explained by supposing that electric radiation brings the particles nearer and welds them together , and that the sensitiveness can then only be restored by the mechanical separation of the particles .
This supposition , however , fails in the case of substances which exhibit an increase of resistance by the action of radiation .
It may , however , be supposed that by some process , little understood , the particles are slightly separated by the action of electric waves , thus producing the observed increase of resistance .
On this view , however , the restoration of sensitiveness by tapping remains unexplained .
Changes produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
459 Again , if the increase of resistance is due to a slight separation of particles , suitable small increase of pressure ought to restore the original conductivity , as also the sensitiveness .
It is , however , found that a considerable pressure is required to restore the original current , as if the outer layers of the particles were rendered partially non-conducting by radiation , and had to be broken through before the original current could be re-established .
It is also found that though the sensitiveness is restored by this expedient of increasing the pressure , yet the restoration is only partial , and that after a repetition of this process the receiver loses its sensitiveness almost completely .
I have attempted to find out an explanation of this obscure " fatigue " effect .
This subject will best be treated in connection with the anomalous behaviour of silver , which I find is also in a manner connected with the fatigue effect .
Silver , when subjected to radiation , exhibits , as indicated in my last paper , sometimes an increase , and at other times a decrease , of resistance .
The difficulty in this case cannot be explained on the supposition of variations of radiation intensity , as the anomaly persists even when the intensity of radiation is maintained uniform by keeping the radiator at a fixed distance .
In order to explain these actions , I assumed the following hypotheses , which , with the necessary deductions , are given below:\#151 ; ( 1 ) That electric radiation produces molecular change or allotropic modification in a substance .
( 2 ) That , starting from the original molecular condition A , the effect of radiation is to convert it , to a more or less extent , into the allotropic modification B ( the latter condition will be designated as the " radiation product " ) .
It follows that this change from one state to the other must be accompanied by a corresponding change in the physical properties of the substance .
( 3 ) As one of the properties of a substance is its electric conductivity , any allotropic changes produced by radiation should be capable of being detected by a variation in the conductivity of the substance .
( 4 ) As a molecular strain is produced during transformation from A to B , at a certain stage there may be a rebound towards the original state A. Thus , after the molecular change from A to B condition has reached a maximum value , the further action of radiation may be to reconvert , to a more or less extent , B to A , this reversal of effect being indicated ( see No. 3 ) by a corresponding electric reversal .
( 5 ) That the ultimate loss of sensitiveness , known as " fatigue , " is due to the presence of the radiation product , or strained B variety , along with the A variety , the opposite effects produced by the two varieties neutralising each other .
The justification for the above hypotheses is to be sought for\#151 ; ( 1 ) From analogy with other known radiation phenomena .
( 2 ) From experimental proof\#151 ; 460 Prof. J. 0 .
Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular ( a)Of the allotropic transformation being attended with changes in the conductivity of the substance .
( b ) Of the existence ( and , if possible , the production by chemical means ) of an allotropic modification analogous to the radiation product or B variety , whose reaction should be opposite to that of the substance in a normal condition ( A variety ) .
( c ) Of the assumption that after the maximum transformation of A into B , the further action of radiation is to reconvert , to a more or less extent , the form B into A , such transformations giving rise to electric reversals .
( d ) Of the existence of the radiation product in a fatigued specimen .
The above mentioned hypotheses will obtain still stronger support if further deductions from the above theory are borne out by confirmatory experiments .
I will now describe investigations on the lines sketched above .
A llotropicModification produced by Visible As regards the action of radiation in producing allotropic modification , several such instances are known in the case of visible radiation .
In the familiar example of the conversion of yellow phosphorus into the red amorphous variety , the effect is quite apparent .
But this is not the case in the transformation of the soluble sulphur into an insoluble variety by the action of light ; here the transformation is not apparent , and has to be indirectly inferred from the insolubility of the solarised product in carbon bisulphide .
The reason why a far larger number of instances of allotropic transformation produced by light is not known is not because such effects are not more numerous , but because we are unable to detect such changes .
It must be admitted that our knowledge of molecular changes , specially in a solid , and the means of their detection , is at present extremely limited .
Variation of Conductivity produced by Allotropic Changes .
There is one method of detecting these molecular variations to which little attention has hitherto been given , but which appears to be of great interest , and promises to yield important results in investigations of this class .
It is evident that changes in molecular structure must be attended with changes of physical properties , electric conductivity being one of them .
Among other instances of allotropic changes attended with changes in electric conductivity may be mentioned the wide difference of conducting power between graphite and diamond .
The same great differences of conductivity is seen between the crystalline and amorphous varieties of silicon , and between the " metallic Changes 'produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
461 and white varieties of phosphorus .
But it is not at all necessary to take only such extreme cases to show the influence of molecular or atomic aggregation in influencing the conductivity .
This effect is brought into painful prominence by the variation produced in spite of all precautions in our standards of resistance .
Experimental Proof of Allotropic Changes being attended with Variation of Conductivity\#151 ; I shall now describe a direct experiment by which the change of conductivity produced in a substance by molecular change is exhibited .
Red mercuric iodide is converted into the yellow variety by the application of heat , and the substance does not return to its original state till after a considerable lapse of time .
The recovery here is very slow , A small quantity of mercuric iodide was now placed in a tube provided with sliding electrodes , and a current was made to pass through the substance by suitable compression .
The conductivity of the substance is rather small , and therefore a thin stratum should be taken for experiment .
The current is observed by means of a delicate galvanometer .
On the application of heat to the tube ( which converts the red into the yellow variety ) , there was at once produced , simultaneously with the molecular transformation , an increase of conductivity .
This effect is not due to a rise of temperature , for the increased conductivity was still exhibited on cooling the tube .
From this experiment it is seen that the molecular changes can be inferred from changes in the conductivity .
In the case described above , the recovery from the B , or second stage , to the first stage , A , is slow ; but there may be substances ( and there are such substances ) where , under the given conditions of temperature and other physical surroundings , the first stage is far more stable than the second ; the substance will then pass back quickly from the B condition to the primitive state , on the cessation of the exciting cause , which gave rise to the transient B effect .
The substance will in this case be " self-recovering .
[ Electrical Reversal in the Radiation Product .
In the hypotheses given above , it was said that the reaction of the radiation product , or B variety , should be opposite to that of the substance in the normal condition , or in the A state .
Thus a negative substance which by the action of radiation shows an increase of resistance during conversion from the A. to the B state should exhibit a diminution of resistance when B variety is acted on by electric waves .
The contrary would be the case with positive substances .
The following tabulated statement indicates the phenomena exhibited by two classes of substances : 462 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Elec Touch and the Molecular Sign of electric touch .
Action of radiation on the fresh or A variety of the substance .
Further action of radiation on the radiation product or B variety .
Positive , e.giron Negative , e.g. , arsenic ... Diminution of resistance .
Increase of resistance .
Increase of resistance .
Diminution of resistance .
We have thus two distinct classes of phenomena dependent on the sign of electric touch .
If KA represents the conductivity of the fresh substance , and KB the conductivity of the radiation product , then ( 1 ) With positive substances , as the conductivity of the radiation product is greater ( KB\gt ; KA ) , the first action of radiation would be to produce a diminution of resistance .
This diminution will continue to be exhibited till the maximum amount of B variety is produced .
The further action of radiation now will be to reconvert B into A ; but as KA\lt ; KB there would now be produced a diminution of conductivity , and a galvanometer in circuit will indicate an electrical reversal .
The reconverted A variety may again be transformed to a greater or less extent to B , and in this way a series of reversals may take place , due to the continued action of radiation producing oscillation in molecular or atomic groupings .
1 shall designate this as the phenomenon of radio-molecular oscillation .
( 2 ) With negative substances the conductivity of the radiation product is less ( K \lt ; Ka ) , and the first action of radiation will therefore be an increase of resistance .
The phenomena exhibited by these negative substances will precisely be opposite to those shown by the positive substances .
The above is but an approximate representation of the phenomena .
To be more accurate , one has to take into account the partial changes and the effect of radiation on these changed products .
Thus , at first suppose the substance to be entirely made up of A variety ( this would rarely be the case ) .
The first flash of radiation converts a large portion of A into B , the substance now being a mixture of A and B. The action of the next flash would be to convert the unchanged A into B , and reconvert to a more or less extent B into A. The electric response will thus be very strong at the beginning , but will become continuously less and less .
When the proportion of B has attained a maximum value , the reconversion of B into A will become relatively large , and thus give rise to reversal effect .
I spoke of the conversion " to a greater or less extent " of one variety into the other .
There is also the question of the relative stability of the two varieties under the given conditions .
From the above it will be seen what possibilities there are in the way of different combinations , and the varied phenomena thereby rendered possible .
I will presently describe some of the typical cases .
Changes produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
463 In the above it has been assumed that the reaction of B variety is opposite to that of A. As previously mentioned , in working with a silver receiver I found it , when fresh , exhibiting at first a diminution and , subsequently , an increase of resistance .
The anomalous action may be explained by supposing the normal fresh silver Ag to be positive , and the radiation product Ag ' negative .
These two varieties would thus give rise to opposite reactions .
To justify the assumptions made above , it became necessary to obtain by some other means a variety of silver Ag ' , analogous to the hypothetical negative variety .
] Two Varieties of Silver .
After many unsuccessful attempts , I at last obtained a variety of silver which gives a moderately negative reaction ( increase of resistance ) .
Silver chloride was first precipitated by the addition of dilute hydrochloric acid to silver nitrate solution .
The precipitate was then reduced to metallic silver by zinc filings , the excess of zinc being dissolved off by the action of HC1 .
This form of silver gives a negative reaction .
Direct precipitation of silver produced by dipping a piece of zinc in AgN03 solution gives a positive variety .
The negative product Ag ' is perhaps better formed at relatively low temperatures , for the products obtained on certain warm days , the thermometer registering 27 ' C. , were very feebly negative , and passed into the positive state after an interval of twenty-four hours .
But on cold days ( temperature = 22 ' C. ) the products obtained were stable .
I have specimens which have kept the negative property unimpaired for nearly three months .
The negative property is not due to any accidental impurity , for pure silver obtained by Stas ' method also gave the negative reaction .
The negative reaction may , however , be supposed to be due to a thin film of chloride formed during reduction .
I washed the Ag ' with NH3 , then with water , and , after drying , the result was still a negative reaction .
I then carried out a parallel set of experiments with ordinary silver filings .
Two separate quantities were taken ; one was shaken with only HC1 , the other was mixed with zinc filings , and the excess of zinc was dissolved off with HC1 ; the two specimens were then washed and dried .
Both gave the positive reaction of ordinary silver .
The above experiments are interesting for the production , by chemical means , of an allotropic variety analogous to the transitory radiation product .
There are other differences of electric behaviour between Ag and Ag ' ; for instance , when made into a voltaic cell , the two varieties giv^ a P.D. of about 0T2 volt .
There are other interesting peculiarities about this cell , the consideration of which is postponed to a future occasion .
464 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and Molecular Electric Reversal .
It now remains to be proved that the " radiation product " exhibits a change of sign of electric touch .
The sensitiveness of certain substances belonging to each of these two classes is very great .
On the other hand , in the transition from one class to the other , substances are met with the sensitiveness of which is rather feeble .
The experimental verification of the hypotheses mentioned above seemed at first very difficult , as the reversed action was likely to be masked by the stronger normal action of the still unconverted portion of the substance .
It however occurred to me that if slightly sensitive substances were taken , then the direct and reversed actions were likely to be obtained with less difficulty .
For this reason I took for my first experiments arsenic , which is moderately negative .
It is however possible , though the adjustments are difficult , to exhibit the reversed actions even with strongly sensitive substances , and as a type of such actions that of iron will be taken as an example .
Observations with Arsenic Receiver.\#151 ; Experiment I.\#151 ; A receiver was made with freshly powdered arsenic ; the critical distance was found to be 25 cm .
; that is to say , when the radiator was moved from 1 to 25 cm .
there was always produced an increase of resistance , while beyond this distance there was a diminution of resistance ; the critical distance , 25 cm .
, may therefore be taken as an approximate measure of the negative character of the specimen .
As has been said before , if through any cause the substance becomes more negative , the critical distance will be increased ; but if the substance tends towards the positive direction by becoming less negative , then the critical distance will be decreased .
The receiver was now continuously subjected to radiation for ten minutes .
After this it was found that the receiver gave a diminution or positive reaction , even when the radiator was brought close to the receiver .
The action of radiation has thus reversed the sign of electric touch .
Experiment II.\#151 ; Any arbitrary length of exposure labours under the defect that what is observed is the final effect , the intermediate effects not being taken into account .
In order to observe the intermediate effects , a very laborious series of observations is necessary .
The experiment was therefore modified in the following mannerA fresh receiver was subjected to radiation , and observations at intervals of fifteen seconds were taken to test the nature of reaction of the sensitive substance .
The first action of radiation on the fresh specimen was a great increase of resistance\#151 ; so very great that the current was reduced to zero ; it was no longer possible to make any further observation without re-establishing the current .
This was done by a very gradual increase of pressure , effected by means of a fine micrometei screw w ic moved the compressing electrode in a perfectly parallel manner .
There Changes 'produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
4G5 should be no jarring motion , as mechanical disturbance was found to break up the complex atomic aggregation in the radiation product .
During eight minutes of exposure the receiver continued to exhibit an increase of resistance , after which the substance became positive , being-converted to the B state ; this positive state lasted for a minute under exposure to radiation , then there was a reversal to the original negative state\#151 ; as if the structure so laboriously built up suddenly gave way .
Subsequently there were series of reversals , the specimen becoming more and more inert , and , after an exposure of about thirty minutes , the sensitiveness was practically lost .
The curve given below represents approximately the results of the experiment .
During certain periods the substance became so nearly neutral that it was difficult to interpret whether the substance was positive or negative .
The lower halves of the curve represent the negative and the upper halves the positive states , and the corresponding numbers represent , in minutes , the duration of these states .
7 4 ' / ' Fio .
1.\#151 ; Electric Reversal Curve .
[ Radio-molecularOscillation .
It was said that , owing to molecular reversals due to radiation , there should be a corresponding series of electric reversals .
In this investigation it is essential that the substance examined should be completely protected from all disturbances , such as mechanical vibration , \amp ; c. , and only subjected to the action of radiation .
The experimental difficulties are very great .
If we take a strongly sensitive positive substance\#151 ; say iron , the effect of the first flash of radiation ( a diminution of resistance ) is very great , and the subsequent relatively feeble reversal effects , unless carefully looked for , are liable to pass unnoticed .
After the first adjustment , the receiver should on no account be touched , as mechanical jars are found to undo the effect of radiation .
Though by special care the mechanical jars could be reduced to a minimum , yet it appeared advisable to devise appropriate means by which the necessity of touching the receiver for subsequent adjustments is altogether avoided .
The method adopted to this end varies with individual cases .
In the case of arsenic , for example , the action of radiation is often to produce a very great increase of resistance , and thus convert the substance into a non-conductor .
The pressure has therefore to be so adjusted at the beginning , that the substance can never become altogether non-conducting ; the VOL. LXVI .
2 0 466 Prof. J. O. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular receiver is thus absolutely free from all effects , except those which are to be observed\#151 ; viz. , the effects due to continuous action of radiation .
The time of exposure is accurately measured by counting the individual flashes of radiation , due to interruption of the primary current in the Ruhmkorff coil by a tapping key .
The conductivity of the substance at a given moment is inferred from the deflection of the galvanometer in circuit with the receiver .
When feeble radiation is used , it takes an inconveniently long time to obtain reversals ; there is , besides , a tendency of self-recovery in the receiver .
In order to expedite the reversals , the incident electric radiation is made very strong .
Before entering into the detail of the results obtained , I will say a few words about the principal types likely to be met with .
We may have the following I. Substances in which the B state is unstable under the given conditions ; the B state will therefore only persist during the action of radiation , the substance relapsing into the original condition on the cessation of radiation .
Two cases are possible ( i ) when the substance is positive , ( ii ) when the substance is negative .
Time of exposure .
FlO .
2.\#151 ; Curve for Potassium .
The latter case is exemplified by potassium .
In the above curve ( fig. 2 ) , A and B represent the two molecular states .
The substance being negative , A is more conducting ; represents the conductivity of the fresh specimen ; the thick dots S S ' . . .
the individual flashes .
It is seen that the effect of radiation is to produce a sudden diminution of conductivity , due to the transient formation of B variety with its diminished conductivity .
The substance , electrically speaking , is highly elastic , and the limit of its elasticity is also very great .
With the majority of substances , however , self-recovery is only possible when the narrow limit of elasticity is not exceeded .
II .
In this class the radiation product is somewhat stable ; the successive conversions from A to B and from B back to A are supposed to be complete .
Probably there is no substance which exhibits this action in a perfect manner , but we have an approximation to this condition in the case of magnesium , which under proper adjustments shows successive complete reversals for a long time .
The substance , however , after a time exhibits the effect of fatigue .
Changes produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
467 The curve given in fig. 3 clearly exhibits the reversals. .
This curve also explains the behaviour of magnesium noticed in my last paper , which appeared very curious at the time .
" It is sometimes possible to so adjust matters that one flash of radiation produces a diminution of resistance , and the very next flash an increase of resistance .
Thus a series of flashes may be made to produce alternate throws of the galvanometer needle."* The receiver was so adjusted as to give a deflection of five divisions .
Time of exposure Fig. 3.\#151 ; Radio-molecular Oscillation Curve for Magnesium .
The first flash of radiation produced an increased deflection of 90 divisions ( magnesium having a positive electric touch ) ; the second flash produced a further deflection of five divisions , the third flash produced a negative deflection , of five divisions , the fourth flash produced + 5 , the fifth flash gave - 90 divisions , and the sixth flash a deflection of + 90 .
The reversals followed each other almost regularly , till the substance became insensitive .
III .
Lastly , we may have a class of substances where the conversion from one state to the other is not complete .
Here , again , we get two sub-divisions , owing to the distinction between positive and negative substances .
Taking first the case of a positive substance ( see fig. 4 ( / 3 ) ) , the original conductivity of which is represented by a , the action of the first few flashes of radiation would be to produce a great increase of conductivity by the formation of B variety ; the next flashes convert Time of Exposure .
Fig. 4.\#151 ; " Damped " Molecular Oscillation .
* " On a Self-recovering Coherer , " \amp ; c. , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 65 , p. 169 .
468 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular B back to A , but not completely , and the negative deflection will be less than the previous positive deflection .
Owing to this " damping " effect , the oscillation curve will approximate to a logarithmic decrement curve .
After a series of reversals the oscillation dies away , and the substance becomes almost inert .
A glance at the hypothetical curve to the right shows that at the inert stage , the substance as a whole ought to become more conducting the fresh specimen , a. The opposite should be the case with negative substances ( see % .
4 ( a ) .
Fig. 5 exhibits the actual curve obtained with a ( compound ) positive substance .
Time of exposure .
Fig. 5.\#151 ; " Damped " Oscillation Curve for a Positive Substance .
It is remarkable for its regularity .
The next figure ( fig. 6 ) gives the curve for iron .
The first diminution of resistance is too great to be properly represented in the diagram .
Here we have the same type as in the previous case 5 the inert stage , b , is also more conducting than a. IV .
I will now consider the case of a negative substance exhibiting damping ; arsenic will be taken as an example where the damping is not so great as in the case of iron .
Fig. 7 represents the actual curve obtained with arsenic ( compare with the hypothetical curve for a negative substance , fig. 4 ( a ) ) .
It will be observed that the substance in the fatigued state is , on the whole , less conducting than in the fresh condition , as we were led to expect from the hypothetical curve .
It will also be seen that the oscillations are very regular towards the end .
The curves given in figs. 6 and 1 are those obtained with specimens immediately after they weie set up .
Had I allowed them a period of rest to allow the particles to get properly settled , I would have got curves even more regular .
It is , however , evident that in substances exhibiting damping , two opposite electric conditions are induced in fatigued specimens ; the posith e becomes on the whole more conducting and the negative less con ducting than in the fresh specimens .
At the inert stage the rate of mutual conversion from one state to the other probably becomes equal , and the apparent fatigue is thus not due to the absolute want of semiChanges'produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
469 tiveness of the constituent varieties , but to the opposite reactions of A and B balancing each other .
Time of Exposure .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Curve for Iron .
Time of Exposure .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; Curve for Arsenic .
We may now apply some further crucial tests to verify the suppositions made above .
470 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular Restoration of Sensitiveness to a Fatigued Substance .
It was said that the inertness of the substance , after long exposure , is due to the presence of a relatively large amount of strained B variety .
It therefore follows that if by any means we can transform B into A , then after such a transformation there ought to be a restoration of the sensitiveness .
It has also been stated that the B variety under ordinary circumstances is less stable than A. If now we apply a disturbing cause which is unilateral in its action\#151 ; that is to say , if it converts B into A and not A into B\#151 ; then such a disturbing cause will resensitise the fatigued substance .
Effect of Mechanical Disturbance.\#151 ; Of the unilateral actions , mechanical vibration is one ; for it is known that by the action of friction a substance may pass from one modification to another in one direction only .
Thus the change of monoclinic into rhombic variety of sulphur is hastened by scratching with a glass rod , but the change does not take place in the opposite direction .
We may now apply the crucial tests .
Mechanical vibration will transform B into A , and with positive fatigued substances this ought to produce an increase of resistance ( as A is less conducting than B ) ; with negative substances the same disturbance ought to produce a diminution of resistance .
Effect of Heat.\#151 ; There are other methods by which the B variety may be transformed into A ; the more subtle molecular disturbance due to heat may be expected to be even more effective in producing the transformation .
Here , too , the crucial test is that by slight heating the fatigued positive substance ought to show an increase of resistance , and the negative substance a diminution of resistance .
The two following curves ( figs. 8 and 9 ) confirm in a remarkable manner my anticipations .
Effect of Heat and Mechanical Disturbance on a Positive Fatigued Substance.\#151 ; I shall at first deal with the curve for iron .
At the end of No. 6 curve , the substance was left in the inert stage b. While in this state , the receiver was heated to a slight extent .
Observe in the dotted portion of the curve the sudden fall of conductivity ( increase of resistance ) .
I should like to say here , that , though the fall has been indicated by a straight line , as representing the somewhat sudden fall of conductivity , I sometimes noticed on careful inspection a slight oscillatory movement of the galvanometer spot during this process .
The significance of this I will notice on a future occasion .
The ultimate effect of slight heating ( excess of heat produces other complications ) is the restoration of the original reduced conductivity .
If the application of heat transforms B into A , we may expect the substance to regain its sensitiveness , which it lost in the fatigued stage b. The receiver was now exposed to radiation , and it at once responded , exhibiting almost its original sensibility .
Observe how the subsequent Changes 'produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
471 portion of the curve is a repetition of the curve No. 6 , and how the substance arrives at the second fatigued state bTo observe the FlGK 8.\#151 ; Curve showing the Effect of Heat and .
Mechanical Vibration on a fatigued Iron-filings Eeceiver .
* Application of heat .
t Application of a tap .
effect of mechanical disturbance a gentle tap was given to the receiver , and at once th^re was produced an increase of resistance due to the transformation of B into A , the receiver regaining its sensitiveness by the transformation .
The action of radiation was continued , and after a few reversals the substance once more arrived at the third fatigued state , b".The process described above could be repeated any number of times .
Effect of Heat and Mechanical Disturbance on a Negative Fatigued Substance .
Experiments similar to the above were carried out with an arsenic receiver .
From the curve given below ( fig. 9 ) it is seen that the reaction of the negative substance is in every respect opposite to that of a positive substance .
It will be noticed that the same cause i.e. , heating or tapping\#151 ; produces , as necessary consequences of the hypotheses previously stated , two opposite reactions in the two classes of substance .
I have been able to verify this deduction by observations with nearly a dozen different substances , and have not , so far , come across any to contradict it .
It thus appears that tapping restores the sensitiveness not by the separation of the electrically-welded particles ( in which case tapping ought to have produced an increase of resist472 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Electric Touch and the Molecular ance in both the classes of fatigued substance ) , but by removing the strain in B and thus converting it into A. The effect of electric radiation is thus to produce rearrangement of atoms and molecules in a substance ; so does light produce new atomic and molecular aggregation in a photographic plate\#151 ; a subject to be dealt with in detail in a future paper .
Some of my audience at the Royal Institution ( January , 1897 ) may remember my attempt at explaining the action of the so-called coherers ( which , perhaps , may be better described as " molecular receivers " ) by analogy with the photographic action .
I had then no proofs for the assertion .
I have since been able to obtain experimental evidence that the two phenomena are Time of Exposure .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; Curve showing the Effect of Heat and Mechanical Vibration on a Fatigued Arsenic Receiver .
b Effect of heat .
V Effect of tapping .
identical .
The coherer may therefore be regarded as a linear photographic plate ; since we are more likely to understand the complex photographic action from the consideration of the much simpler action of electric radiation on elementary substances , where the effects are not complicated by secondary reactions , a photographic plate may be regarded as merely an assemblage of " molecular receivers .
" I hope also to prove that nearly all the detectors of radiation are molecular receivers in reality .
The investigation of this aspect of the subject has given me some extraordinary results ; they seem to connect together many phenomena which at first sight do not seem to have anything in common .
Another interesting question , the consideration of which has for the present to be postponed , is , Why is it that the sensitiveness is so marked in discontinuous metallic particles ?
In other words , Why is the phenomenon mainly one of skin or touch 1 Is the phenomenon wholly unknown in continuous solids 1 The experiments described in the present paper show:\#151 ; Changes produced in Matter by Electric Waves .
( 1 ) That ether waves produce molecular changes in matter .
( 2 ) That the molecular or allotropic changes are attended with changes of electric conductivity , and this explains the action of the so-called coherers .
( 3 ) That there are two classes of substances , positive and negative , which exhibit opposite variations of conductivity under the action of radiation .
( 4 ) That the production of a particular allotropic modification depends on the intensity and duration of incident electric radiation .
( 5 ) That the continuous action of radiation produces oscillatory changes in the molecular structure .
( 6 ) That these periodic changes are evidenced by the corresponding electric reversals .
( 7 ) That the " fatigue " is due to the presence of the " radiation product , " or strained B variety .
( 8 ) That by means of mechanical disturbance or heat , the strained product can be transformed into the normal form , and the sensitiveness may thereby be restored .
The method described above of detecting molecular changes is extraordinarily delicate , and is full of promise in many lines of inquiry in molecular physics .
It is also seen that the phenomenon of contact sensitiveness , contrary to previous suppositions , is perfectly regular .
There is no capriciousness in the response of sensitive substances to the external stimuli , which may be mechanical , thermal , or electric .
The curves given above show it j but they fail to give a fair idea of the richness and variety of the molecular phenomena , seen as it were reflected in the fluttering galvanometer spot of light ; of the transitory variations , of the curious molecular hesitation at critical times as to the choice of the structure to be adopted , and of the molecular inertia by which the newly-formed structure is carried beyond the position of stability , and the subsequent creeping back to the more stable position .
The varieties of phenomena are unlimited , for we have in each substance to take account of the peculiarity of its chemical constitution , the nature of its response to ether waves , the lag and molecular viscosity .
All these combined give to each substance its peculiar characteristic curve ; it is not unlikely that these curves may give us much information as to the chemical nature and the physical condition of the different substances .
I am at present trying to arrange an apparatus which will , by means of the pulsating galvanometer spot of light , automatically record the various molecular transformations caused by the action of external forces .
Before concluding , I take this opportunity of expressing my grateful acknowledgments to the Royal Society for the encouragement J '474 Dr. G. L. Johnson .
Contributions to the received from the Society for the last five years during which investigations on Electric Radiation have been in progress at the Presidency College .
I may say that the difficulties have been very numerous and disheartening , and that without this encouragement the work which it has been my good fortune to carry out would in all probability have remained unaccomplished .
The Government of Bengal has also been pleased to evince a generous interest in these investigations .
My assistant , Mr. Jagadindu Ray , and my pupils , Messrs. P. K. Sen , B.A. , and B. C. Sen , B.A. , have rendered me active assistance .
] " Contributions to the Comparative Anatomy of the Mammalian Eye , chiefly based on Ophthalmoscopic Examination .
" By George Lindsay Johnson , M.D. , E.R.C.S. Communicated by Hans Gadow , F.R.S. Received May 7 , \#151 ; Read May 17 , 1900 .
( Abstract .
) Observations were made on the eye of the living animal , 181 different species being examined , and frequently several individuals of the same species .
The species comprise representatives of all the Mammalian orders except the Cetacea and Sirenia .
The conclusions arrived at can be summed up as follows \#151 ; The colour of the Fundus oculi in animals devoid of a Tapetum is mainly determined by reflection from the choroidal pigment ; in those with a Tapetum cellulosum ( Carnivores ) by the colour of the retinal pigment ; in those with a Tapetum fibrosum ( Ungulates ) by the structural colour of the Tapetum modified by the colour of the retinal pigment .
All the animals examined may be classed under three types \#151 ; red , yellow , and green .
The vascularisationof the retina can be summarised as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
Indirect supply by means of osmosis from the vessels of neighbouring parts .
A. Hyaloid supply .
( ) The corpus vitreum is nourished by a processus falciformis , the hyaloid vessels lying well inside the corpus vitreum ( Elasmobranchs ) .
( b ) The hyaloid vessels spread over the surface of the corpus vitreum , being in consequence in the immediate vicinity of the retina ( .
, holosteus and many teleosteous fishes ) .
Hereto belong also the Amphibia and most of the Reptiles devoid of a pecten .
B. Choroidal supply .
This is probably the chief supply of the retina in those animals which possess a well-developed pecten ( most Sauropsida ) , but are devoid of superficial hyaloid vessels .
This choroidal supply by osmosis is also with certainty demonstrated in the Mammalia for at least part of the thickness of the retina .
2 .
Direct supply .
A. From the superficial hyaloid vessels .
This is

