A Relation of an Hydropical Case , in which the Gall Bladder was distended to an unusual bigness .
By Mr James Yonge , F. R. S. Surgeon at Plimouth .
MRs .
Dyer was about 30 Years old , a Mother of several Children , and very healthful till last January ; when , after frequent watching upon an extraordinary occasion , she was vexed with a Pain in her Belly , like the Cholick , but proved the Dropsey Ascites ; and grew so fast in despite of all I could do to help it , that March the 9th , being almost suffocated , I was forced to tapp her by an hollow Needle in the usual Place , and to repeat the Operation so often as she filled : And by that way discharged the several Quantities of Water , at the times here under mentioned .
Pints .
March 9th I drew 9 14 8 April 2 12 16 10 May 17 14 31 14 June 14 14 24 14 July 7 17 21 16 30 16 August 6 14 17 14 26 13 Sept. 1 , 6 , &amp; 22 111/ 2 Octob. 13 30 15 2141/ 2 In the space of Eight Months I drew Two hundred fourteen Pints and an half of Water .
All the while I was pumping that out , I endeavoured by all the means I could to stop the leak within , but in vain : She died November 4 .
1711 .
and opening her Belly , we found the following remarkable and incredible Things .
From the Belly issued 14 Pints of a greenish Serum , mixed with a very purulent Matter , not a little fetid .
The Intestines , especially the Colon , almost every where Livid , and adhered in many places to the Peritonaeum , altho ' they had been so long Immersed in Water .
The Omentum was also black , and almost consumed .
The Liver , which I expected to be indurated , was free of all Faults , only two Superficial Ulcers on the Left Lobe .
Both that and the Peritonaeum ( which are usually full of Hydatides in Dropsical Persons ) were wholly free of them ; but on the Stomach and Guts were many such .
But we were mightily surprised , to find a great Bladder distended like that of an Ox , to fill up almost the whole Region of the Liver and Ventricle , and adhering to the adjacent Parts so firmly , that we could not seperate them without difficulty , and get it out whole .
Our surprise , at such a prodigious Appearance , turned into Astonishment , when we found it the Gall Bladder , and that by its Distention it had torn the Liver asunder ; one part of which adhered to the Left side of this monstrous Cystis , and another part behind it , towards the Back ; and both expanded with it , and fastened to it , like as the temporal Muscle to the Scull .
The whole weighed Ten Pounds and Twelve Ounces .
It had no Passage to let out the Matter it contained , altho ' we squeezed it hard to that purpose ; nor could we find any by Probes : So that we were forced to make way by a Knife , and so let out of it seven Pints of a black Liquor like Coffee ; which having stood one Night in a Bason , near a Quart of thick yellow Faeces subsided .
The Liquor in this Bladder , and what we found in her Belly after her Death , added to what was evacuated before by Paracentesis , amounts to 235 Pints .
Besides the prodigious quantity of Matter which filled this great Bag , we found several pieces of Membranes like Gut , or Bladder cut into pieces : What it was , or how it came there , I ca n't Conjecture .
It was very wonderful , that during the whole time of her Sickness , she ejected by Urine near as much as she drank ; and yet by Computation , she leaked into the Abdomen near a Pint every 24 Hours , from March to November .
When her Belly was near full , her Thighs and Legs used to swell , and grew discoloured like an approaching Gangrene ; but both went off after tapping , by the help of Friction , and a warm Lotion .
The Bladder , and adhering part of the Liver , is drying , to be sent you by the first opportunity .
There were four of the Faculty present with me , who can testify the truth of this Report .

