IV .
An Account of a Method of dividing Astronomical and other Instruments , by ocular Inspection ; in which the usual Tools for graduating are not employed ; the whole Operation being so contrived , that no Error can occur but what is chargeable to Visiona , when assisted by the best optical Means of viewing and measuring minute Quantities .
By Mr. Edward Troughton .
Communicated by the Astronomer Royal .
Read February 2 , 1809 .
IT would ill become me , in addressing myself to the Members of this Society upon a subject which they are so well enabled to appreciate , to arrogate to myself more than may be assigned as my due , for whatever of success may have been the result of my long continued endeavours , exerted in prosecuting towards perfection the dividing of Instruments immediately subservient to the purposes of Astronomy .
A man very naturally will set a value upon a thing on which so much of his life has been expended ; and I shall readily , therefore , be pardoned for saying , that considering some attainments which I have made on this subject as too valuable to be lost , and being encouraged also by the degree of attention which the Royal Society has ever paid to practical subjects , I feel myself ambitious of presenting them to the public through what I deem the most respectable channel in the world .
It was as early as the year 1775 , being then apprentice to my brother , the late Mr. JOHN TROUGHTON , that the art of MDcccIX P dividing had become interesting to me ; the study of astronomy was also new and fascinating ; and I then formed the resolution to aim at the nicer parts of my profession .
At the time alluded to , my brother , in the art of dividing , was justly considered the rival of RAMSDEN ; but he was then almost unknown beyond the narrow circle of the mathematical and optical instrument makers ; for whom he was chiefly occupied in the division , by hand , of small astronomical quadrants , and HADLEY'S sextants of large radius .
Notwithstanding my own employment at that time was of a much inferior nature , yet I closely inspected his work , and tried at leisure hours on waste materials to imitate it .
With as steady a hand , and as good an eye , as young men generally have , I was much disappointed at finding , that after having made two points , neat and small to my liking , I could not bisect the distance between them , without enlarging , displacing , or deforming them with the points of the compasses .
This circumstance gave me an early dislike to the tools then in use ; and occasioned me the more uneasiness , as I foresaw that it was an evil which no practice , care , nor habit could entirely cure : Beam-compasses , spring-dividers , and a scale of equal parts , in short , appeared to me little better than so many sources of mischief .
I had already acquired a good share of dexterity , as a general workman : Of the different branches of our art , that of turning alone seemed to me to border on perfection .
This juvenile conceit , fallacious as I afterwards found it , furnished the first train of thoughts , which led to the method about to be described ; for it occurred , to me , that if I could by any means apply the principle of turning to the art of dividing 1o6 instruments , the tools liable to objection might be dispensed with .
The means of doing this was first suggested , by seeing the action of the perambulator , or measuring wheel ; the surface of the earth presenting itself as the edge of the instrument to be divided , and the wheel of the perambulator as a narrow roller acting on that edge ; and hence arose an idea that some easy contrivance might be devised , for marking off the revolutions and parts of the roller upon the instrument .
Since the year above-mentioned , several persons have proposed to me , as new , dividing by the roller , and I have beeii told , that it also occurred long ago to HOOK , SISSON , and others ; but , as HATTON on Watch-making , says , " I do not ' consider the man an inventor , who merely thinks of a thing ; " to be an inventor , in my opinion , he must act successfully upon the thought , so as to make it useful .
" I had no occasion , however , to have made an apology for acting upon a thought , which , unknown to me , had been previously conreived by others ; for it will be seen in the sequel , how little the roller has to do in the result , and with what extremie caution it is found necessary to employ it .
When a roller is properly proportioned to the radius of the circle to be divided , and with its edge made a small matter conical , so that one side may be too great , and the other side too little , it may be adjusted so exactly , that it may be carried several times around the circle , without the error of a single second ; and it acts with so much steadiness , that it may not unaptly be considered as a wheel and pinion of indefinitely high numbers .
Yet , such is the imperfection of the edges of the circle and roller , that , when worked with the greatest care , the intermediate parts , on a radius of two feet , will sometimes be P2 !
o7 unequnl to the value of half a minute or more .
After having found the terminating point of a quadrant or circle so permanentalthough I was not prepared to expect perfect equality throughout , yet I was much mortified to find the errors so great , at least ten times as much as I expected ; which fact indicated , beyond a doubt , that if the roller is to be trusted at all , it must only be trusted through a very short arc .
Had there been any thing slippery in the action , which would have been indicated by measuring the same part at different times differently , there would have been an end of it at once ; but , that not being the case in any sensible degree , the roller becomes an useful auxiliary to fill up short intervals , whose limits have been corrected by more certain means.* BIRD , who enjoyed the undisputed reputation of being the most accurate divider of the age in which he lived , was the first who contrived the means how to render the usual divisions of the quadrant bisectional ; which property , except his being unusually careful in avoiding the effects of unequal expansion from change of temperature , chiefly distinguished his method from others who divided by hand .
This desirable object he accomplished by the use which he made of a finely divided scale of equal parts .
The thing aimed at was , to obtain a point upon the arc at the highest bisectional number of divisions from o , which in his eight feet quadrants was 1024 , 85 ? ?
2o ' .
The extent of the beam-compasses , with which he traced the arc upon the limb of the instrument to be divided , being set off upon that arc , gave the points o ?
and 60 ?
; broad list , and thereby shows that there is a yielding between them to a considerable amount .
The breadth of this list is not less than one fiftieth of an inch ; and it follows , that at least 2z ?
of the circle 's edge must be in contact at the same time ; that the two surfaces yield to each other in depth , by a quantity equal to the ver .
sin. of half that arc , or -rWof an inch ; and that the circle has always hold of the roller by nearly io of the edge of the latter .
Whoever has examined the surfaces of metals which have rolled against each other , must have observed that peculiar kind of indentation that always accompanies their action ; and there can be no doubt that the particles of a roller , and those of the surface on which it acts , which mutually indent each other , will , upon a second course begun from the same point , indent each other deeper : This is not , however , exactly the case in question ; for , whatever of fitting might have taken .
place between the surfaces of our roller and circle in the first revolution of the former , one should imagine would be obliterated by the fifteen turns which it must repeat over fresh ground .
Experience shows , however , as every one will find who tries the experiment with good work , that on coming round to the point of commencement , the roller has the disposition to regain its former track ; for , were this not the case , although the commensurate diameters were adjusted so exactly as to be without sensible error in one course , yet a less error than that which is so would become visible , when repeated through many courses .
which , being bisected , gave 30 ' more to complete the total arc .
A second order of bisections gave points at 15 ?
distance from each other ; but that which denoted 75 ?
was most useful .
Now , from the known length of the radius , as measured upon the scale , the length of the chord of lo ? ?
2o ' was computed , taken off from the scale , and protracted from 75 ?
forwards ; and the chord of ? ?
40 ' , being ascertained in the same manner , was set off from 90g backwards , meeting the chord of o10 ? ?
2o in the continually bisectional arc of 85 ? ?
20 ' .
This point being found , the work was carried on by bisections , and the chords , as they became small enough , were set off beyond this point to supply the remainder of the quadrantal arc .
My brother , whom I mentioned before , from mere want of a scale of equal parts upon which he could rely , contrived the means of dividing bisectionally without one .
His method I will briefly state as follows , in the manner which it would apply to dividing a mural quadrant .
The arcs of 6o ?
and 30 ?
give the total arc as before ; and let the last arc of 30 ?
be bisected , also the last arc of 15 ?
, and again the last arc of 7 ? ?
3o ' : The two marks next 90 ?
will now be 82 ' 30 ' and 86 ? ?
15 ' , consequently the point sought lies between them .
Bisections will serve us no longer ; but if we divide this space equally into three parts , the most forward of the two intermediate marks will give us 85 ?
, and if we divide the portion of the arc between this mark and 86 ? ?
15 ' also into three , the most backward of the two marks will denote 85 ? ?
30 ' .
Lastly , if we divide any one of these last spaces into five , and set off one of these fifth parts backwards from 8 ?
bol , we shall have the desired point at 1024 divisions upon the arc from o ? .
All the rest of the divisions which have been made in this operation , which I have Ito called marks because they should be made as faint as possible , must be erased ; for my brother would not suffer a mark to remain upon the arc to interferewith his future bisections .
Mr. SMEATON , in a paper to be more particularly noticed presently , justly remarks the want of a unity of principle in Mr. BIRD'S method ; for he proceeds partly on the ground of the protracted radius , and partly upon that of the computed chord ; which , as SIMEATON observes , may or may not agree .
BIRD , without doubt , used the radius and its parts in order to secure an exact quadrant ; but SMEATON , treating exactness in the total arc as of little value to astronomy , would , in order to secure the more essential property of equality of division , reject the radius altogether , and proceed entirely upon the simple principle of the computed chord .
The means pursued by my brother , to reach the point which terminates the great bisectional arc , is the only part in which it differs from BIRD'S method ; and , I think it is without prejudice that I give it the preference .
It is obvious that it is as well calculated to procure equality of division , as the means suggested by SMEATON ; at the same time that it is equal to BIRD'S in securing the precise measure of the total arc .
It proceeds entirely upon the principle of the protracted chord of 60 ?
and its subdivision ; and the uncertainty , which is introduced into the work by the sparing use which is made of subdivision by 3 and 5 , is , in my opinion , likely to be much exceeded by the errors of a divided scale , * and those of the hand and eye , in taking off the computed chords , and applying them to the arc of the instrument to be divided .
RAMSDEN'S well known method of dividing by the engine unites so much accuracy and facility , that a better can hardly be wished for ; and I may venture to say that it will never be superseded , in the division of instruments of moderate radii .
It was well suited to the time in which it appeared ; a time when the improvements made in nautical astronomy , and the growing commerce of our country , called for a number of reflecting instruments , which never could have been supplied , had it been necessary to have divided them by hand ; however , as it only applies to small instruments , it hardly comes within the subject of this paper .
The method of HINDLEY , as described by SMEATON , * I will venture .
to predict will never be put in practice for dividing astronomical instruments , however applicable it might formerly have been for obtaining numbers for cutting clockwork , for which purpose it was originally intended .
It consists of a train of violent operations with blunt tools , any one of which is sufficient to stretch the materials beyond , or press them within their natural state of rest ; and , although the whole is done by contact , the nature of this contact is such as , I think , ought rather to have been contrasted with , than represented as being similar to , the nature of the contact used ' in SMEATON'S Pyrometer , which latter is performed by the most delicate touch ; and is represented , I believe justly , to be sensible to the.o part of an inch .
SMEATON has , however , acquitted himself well , in describing and improving the method of his friend ; and the world is particularly obliged to him for the historical part of his paper , as it contains valuable information which perhaps no one else could have written .
Th1e only met:hod of dividing large instrument ) now practised in London , that I know of , besides my own , has not yet , I believe , been made public .
It consists in dividing by hand with beam compasses and spring dividers , in the usual way ; with the addition of examining the work by microscopes , and correcting it , as it proceeds , by pressing forwards or backwards by hand , with a fine conical point , those dots which appear erroneous ; and thus adjusting them to their proper places .
The method admits of considerable accuracy , provided the operator has a steady hand and good eye ; but his work will ever be irregular and inelegant .
He must have a circular line passing through the middle of his dots , to enable him to make and keep them at an equal distance from the centre .
The bisectional arcs , also , which cut them across , deform them much ; and , what is worse , the dots which require correction ( about two thirds perhaps of the whole ) will become larger than the rest , and unequally so in proportion to the number of attempts which have been found necessary to adjust them .
In the course of which operation , some of them grow insufferably too large , and it becomes necessary to reduce them to an equality with their neighbours .
This is done with the burnisher , and causes a hollow in the surface , which has a very disagreeable appearance .
Moreover , dots which have been burnished up are always ill-defined , and of a bad figure .
Sir GEORGE SIUCKBURGH EVELYN , in his paper on the Equatorial , * denominates these " doubtful or bad points ; " and , ( considering the few places which he examines ) they bear no inconsiderable proportion to the whole .
In my o.pinion , it would be a great improvement of this method , to t Phil. Trans. for 1793 .
M , DCCCIX .
0 11r divide the whole by hand at once , and afterwards to correct the whole ; for a dot forced to its place , as above , will seldom allow the compass-point to rest in the centre of its apparent area ; therefore other dots made from those will scarcely ever be found in their true places .
This improvement also prevents the corrected dots from being injured , or moved , by the future application of the compasses , no such application being necessary .
I will now dismiss this method of dividing , with observing , that it is tedious in the extreme ; and did I not know the contrary beyond a doubt , I should have supposed it to have surpassed the utmost limit of human patience.* When I made my first essay at subdividing with the roller , I used this method , according to the improvement suggested above , of correcting a few primitive points ; but even this was too slow for one who had too much to do .
Perhaps , however , had my instruments been divided for me by an assistant , I might not have grudged to have paid him for the labour of going through the whole work by the method of adjustment ; nor have felt the necessity of contriving a better way .
I might now extend the account of my method of dividing to a great length ; by relating the alterations which the apparatus has undergone during a long course of years , * and the various manner of its application , before I brought it to its present state of improvement ; but I think I may save m-yself that trouble , for truly I do not see its use : I will , therefore , proceed immediately to a disclosure of the method , as practised on a late occasion , in the dividing of ' a four feet meridian circle , now the property of STEPHEN GROOMBRIDGE , Esq. of Blackheath .
The surface of the circle which is to receive the divisions , as well as its inner and outer edges , but especially the latter , should be turned in the most exact and careful manner ; the reason for which will be better understood , when we come to describe the mode of applying the roller : and , as no projection can be admitted beyond the limb , if the telescope , as is generally the case , be longer than the diameter , those parts which extend further must be so applied , that they may be removed during the operation of dividing .
Fig. 1 and 2 represent the principal parts of the apparatus ; Fig. 1 showing the plan , and Fig. 2 the elevation ; in both of which the same letters of reference are affixed to corresponding parts , and both are drawn to a scale of half dimensions .
AA is a part of the circle , the surface of which is seen in the plan , and the edge is seen hi the elevation .
BBB is the main plate of the apparatus , resting with its four feet aaaa upon the surface of the arc ; these feet , being screws , may be adjusted so as to take equal shares of the weight , and then are fastened by nuts below the plate , as shown in Fig. 2 .
CC and DD are two similar plates , each attached to the main plate , one above and the other below , by four pillars ; and in them are centred the ends of the axis of the roller E. F and G are two friction wheels , the latter firmly fastened to B , but the former is fixed in an adjustable frame , by means of which !
} adjustment these wheels and the roller E , may be made to press ; the former on the interior , and the latter on the exterior edge of the circle , with an equal and convenient force.* At the extremities of the axis of the roller , and attached to the middle of the plates C and D , are two bridges , having a screw in each ; by means of which an adjustment is procured for raising or lowering the roller respecting the edge of the circle , whereby the former , having its diameter at the upper edge about.ool of an inch greater than at the lower edge ( being , as before described , a little conical ) , it may easily be brought to the position where it will measure the proper portion of the circle .
Much experience and thought upon the subject have taught me , that the roller should be equal to one sixteenth part of the circle to be divided , or that it should revolve once in 22 ?
So ' ; and that the roller itself should be divided into sixteen parts ; no matter whether with absolute truth , for accuracy is not at all essential here .
Each of such divisions of the roller will correspond with an angle upon the circle of 1 24 ' 2 , '5 , or 2 th part of the circle .
This number of principal divisions was chosen , on account of its being capable of continual bisec* Sufficient spring for keeping the roller in close and uniform contact with the edge of the circle , is found in the apparatus , without any particular contrivance for that purpose ; the bending of the pillars of the secondary frames and of the axis of the roller , chiefly supplies this property .
tion ; but they do not fall in with the ultimate divisions of the circle , which are intended to be equal to 5 ' each .
The next thing to be considered is , how to make the roller measure the circle .
As two microscopes are here necessary , and those which I use are very simple , I will in this place give a description of them .
Fig. 6 is a section of the full size , and sufficiently explains their construction , and the position of the glasses ; but the micrometer part and manner of mounting it , are better shown at H , in Fig. i and q. The micrometer part consists of an oblong square frame , which is soldered into a slit , cut at right angles in the main tube ; another similar piece nicely fitted into the former , and having a small motion at right angles to the axis of the microscope , has at one end a cylindrical guide pin , and at the other a micrometer screw ; a spring of steel wire is also applied , as seen in the section , to prevent play , by keeping the head of the micrometer in close contact with the fixed frame .
This head is divided into one hundred parts , which are numbered each way to 50 ; the use of which will be shown hereafter .
A fine wire is stretched across the moveable frame , for the purpose of bisecting fine dots .
Two of these microscopes are necessary ; also a third , which need not have the divided head , and must have in the moveable frame two wires crossing each other at an angle of about 30 ?
; this microscope is shown at I , Fig. i. In the two first micrometers , a division of the head is of the value of about o",2 , and the power and distinctness such , that when great care is taken , a much greater error than to the amnount of one of these divisions cannot well be committed in setting the wire across the image of a well inade dot .
The double eye-glass has a motion by hand , for producing distinct vision of the wire ; and distinct vision of the dots is procured by a similar adjustment of the whole microscope .
The first step towards sizing the roller , is to compute its diameter according to the measure of the circle , and to reduce it agreeably thereto , taking care to leave it a small matter too large .
The second step is , after having brought the roller into its place in the Plate B B , to make a mark upon the surface of the circle near the edge , and a similar one upon the roller , exactly opposite each other ; then carry the apparatus forward with a steady hand , until the roller has made sixteen revolutions : If , now , the mark upon the roller , by having over-reached the one upon the circle , shows it to be much too large , take it out of the frame and reduce it by turning accordingly : When by repeating this , it is found to be very near , it may be turned about.ool of an inch smaller on the lower edge , and so far its preparation is completed .
The third and last step is , the use and adaptation of the two microscopes ; one of these must take its position at H in Fig. i , viewing a small well defined dot made for the purpose on the circle ; the other , not represented in the figure , must also be fixed to the main plate of Fig. i , as near to the former as possible , but viewing one of the divisions on the roller .
With a due attention to each microscope , it will now be seen to the greatest exactness when , by raising or depressing the roller , its commensurate diameter is found .
Fig. 3 is a representation of the apparatus for transferring the divisions of the roller to the circle .
It consists of two slender bars , which , being seen edgewise in the figure , have only the appearance of narrow lines ; but , when looked at from above , they resemble the form of the letter A. They are fastened to the main frame , as at W and Z , by short pillars , having also the off leg of the angle secured in the same manner ; Y is a fine conical steel point for making the dots , and X is a feeler , whereby the point Y may be pressed down with a uniform force , which force may be adjusted , by bending the end of the bar just above the point , so as to make the dots of the proper size .
The point Y yields most readily to a perpendicular action ; but is amply secured against any eccentric or lateral deviation .
The apparatus , so far described , is complete for laying our foundation , i. e. making 2$6 primary dots ; no matter whether with perfect truth , or not , as was said respecting the divisions of the roller ; precision in either is not be expected , nor wished ; but it is of some importance , that they should be all of the same size , concentric , small , and round .
They should occupy a position very near the extreme border of the circle , as well to give them the greatest radius possible , as that there should be room for the stationary microscope and other mechanism , which will be described hereafter .
It must be noticed , that there is a clamp and adjusting screw attached to the main plate of Fig. i ; but , as it differs in no respect from the usual contrivances for quick and slow motion , it has been judged unnecessary to encumber the drawing with it .
Now , the roller having been adjusted , with one microscope H upon its proper dot on the circle , and the other microscope at the first division on the roller ; place the apparatus of Fig. 3 so that the dotting point Y may stand directly over the place which is designed for the beginning of the divisions .
In this position of things , let the feeler X be pressed down , until its " 9 lower end comes in contact with the circle ; this will carry down the point , and make the first impression , or primary dot , upon the circle ; unclamp the apparatus , and carry it forwards by hand , until another division of the roller comes near the wire of the microscope ; then clamp it , and with the screw motion make the coincidence complete ; where again press upon the feeler for the second dot : proceed in this manner until the whole round is completed .
From these 256 erroneous divisions , by a certain course of examination , and by computation , to ascertain their absolute and individual errors , and to form these errors into convenient tables , is the next part of the process , and makes a very important branch of my method of dividing .
The apparatus must now be taken off , and the circle mounted in the same manner , that it will be in the Observatory .
The two microscopes , which have divided heads , must also be firmly fixed to the support of the instrument , on opposite sides , and their wires brought to bisect the first dot , and the one which should be 180 ?
distant .
Now , the microscopes remaining fixed , turn the circle half round , or until the first microscope coincides with the opposite dot ; and , if the other microscope be exactly at the other dot , it is obvious that these dots are 180o apart , or in the true diameter of the circle ; and if they disagree , it is obvious that half the quantity by which they disagree , as measured by the divisions of the micrometer head , is the error of the opposite division ; for the quantity measured is that by which the greater portion of the circle exceeds the less .
It is convenient to note these errors + or - , as the dots are found too forward or too backward , according to the numbering of the degrees ; and for the purpose ISo of distinguishing the and errors , the heads , as mentioned before , are numbered backwards and forwards to fifty .
One of the microscopes remaining as before , remove the other to a position at right angles ; and , considering for the present both the former dots to be true , examine the others by them ; i. e. as before , try by the micrometer how many divisions of the head the greater half of the semi-circle exceeds the less , and note half the quantity + or - , as before , and do the same for the other semi-circle .
One of the micrometers must now be set at an angle of 45 ?
with the other , and the half differences of the two parts of each of the four quadrants registered with their respective signs .
When the circle is a vertical one , as in the present instance , it is much the best to proceed so far in the examination with it in that position , for fear of any general bending or spring of the figure ; but , for the examination of smaller arcs than 45 " , it will be perfectly safe , and more convenient , to have it horizontal ; because the dividing apparatus will then carry the micrometers , several perforations being made in the plate B for the limb to be seen through at proper intervals .
The micrometers must now be placed at a distance of 22 30 ' , and the half differences of the parts of all the arcs of 45* measured and noted as before ; thus descending by bisections to 11 ? ?
15 ' , o5 37 ' 30 " , and ?
0 48 ' 45 " ' Half this last quantity is too small to allow the micrometers to be brought near enough ; but it will have the desired effect , if they are placed at that quantity atd its half , .
e. 4 ' 13 ' 7,5 ; in which case the examination , instead of being made at the next , will take place at the next division but one , to that which is the subject of trial .
During the whole of the time that the examination is made , all the dots , except the one under examination , are for the present supposed to be in their true places ; and the only thing in this most important part of the business , from first to last , is to ascertain with the utmost care , in divisions of the micrometer head , how much one of the parts of the interval under examination exceeds the other , and carefully to tabulate the half of their difference .
I will suppose that every one , who attempts to divide a large astronomical instrument , will have it engraved first .
Dividing is a most delicate operation , and every coarser one should precede it .
Besides , its being numbered is particularly useful to distinguish one dot from another ; thus , in the two annexed tables of errors , the side columns give significant names to every dot , in terms of its value to the nearest tenth of a degree , and the mistaking of one for another is rendered nearly impossible .
The foregoing examination furnishes materials for the construction of the table of half diff'erences , or apparent errors.* The first line of this table consists of two varieties ; i. e. the micrometers were at 18o ?
distance for obtaining the numbers which 1i1i the columns of the first and third quadrant ; and at 90o , for tihose of the second and fourth quadrant .
The third variety makes one line , and was obtained with a distance of 5 ?
: the fourth consists of two lines , with a distance of 22 ? ?
30 ' : the fifth of four lines , with a distance of 1 ?
i 1 ' : the sixth of eight lines , with a distance of 5 ? ?
37 ' 30 " : the seventh of sixteen lines , with a distance of 2 ? ?
48 ' 45 " : and the eighth and last variety , being the remainder of the table , consists of thirty two lines , and was obtained with a distance of 4 ' iI ? ?
71,5 .
The table of apparent errors , or half differences , just explained , furnishes data for computing the table of real errors .
The rule is this ; let a be the real error of the preceding dot , and b that of the following one , and c the apparent error , taken from the table of half diiffrences , of the dot under investigation ; thIen is +c ts real error .
But , as this simpl expression may not be so generally understood by workmen as I wish , it may be necessary to say the same thing less concisely .
If the real errors of the preceding and following dots are both + , or both - , take half their sum and prefix thereto the common sign ; but , if one of them is + , and the other - , take half their difference , prefixing the sign of the greater quantity : again , if the apparent error of the dot under investigation has the same sign of the quantity found above , give to their sum the common sign , for the real error ; but if their signs are contrary , give to their difference the sign of the greater for the real error .
I add a few examples .
Example i. For the first point of the second quadrant .
Real error of the first point of the first quadrant 0 , Real error of the first point of the third quadrant -6,9 Half sum or half difference -3,4 Apparent error of the dot under trial + 12 , Real error + 8,8 1 2 , I Example 2 .
For the point 45 ?
of the second quadrant .
Real error of the first point of the quadrant 8,8 Real error of the last point of the quadrant -6,9 Half difference +0,9 Apparent error of the dot under trial 8,9 Real error -8 , o Example 3 .
-Point 88 ?
,6 , or last point , of the third quadrant , Real error of the point 84 ?
,4 of the third quadrant 21,0 Real error of the point 2 ?
,8 of the fourth quadrant 2,9 Half sum 11,9 Apparent error of the dot under trial 4,0 Real error -15,9 Example 4 .
Point 88 ?
,6 , or last , of the fourth quadrant .
Real error of the point 84 ?
,4 of the fourth quadrant 21,6 Real error of the point 2 ?
,8 of the first quadrant o , Half sum M -1519 Apparent error of the dot under trial 95 Real error 6,4 It is convenient , in the formation of the table of real errors , that they should be .
inserted in the order of the numbering of the degrees on their respective quadrants ; although their computation necessarily took place in the order in which the examination was carried on , or according to the arrangement in the table of apparent errors .
The first dot of the first 124 quadrant having been assumed to be in its true place , the first of the third quadrant will err by just half the difference found by the examination ; therefore these errors are alike in both tables .
The real error of the first dot of the second quadrant comes out in the first example ; that of the fourth was found in like manner , and completes the first line .
It is convenient to put the error of the division 9g ?
of each quadrant at the bottom of each column , although it is the same as the point o ?
on the following quadrant .
The line of 45 ?
is next filled up ; the second example shows this ; but there is no occasion to dwell longer upon this explanation ; for every one , who is at all fit for such pursuits , will think what has already been said fully sufficient for his purpose .
However , I will just mention that there can be no danger , in the formation of this table , of taking from a wrong line the real errors which are to be the criterion for finding that of the one under trial ; because they are in the line next to it ; the others , which intervene in the fulll table , not being yet inserted .
The last course of all is , however , an exception ; for , as the examining microscopes could not be brought near enough to bisect the angle 92 48 ' 45 " , recourse was had to that quantity and its half ; on which account the examination is prosecuted by using errors at two lines distance , as is shown in the two last examples .
When the table of real errors is constructed , the other table , although it is of no further use , should not be thrown away ; for , if any material mistake has been committed , it will be discovered as the operation of dividing is carried on ; and , in that case , the table of apparent errors must be had recourse to ; indeed , not a figure should be destroyed until the work i done .
125 Respecting the angular value of the numbers in these e tables , it may be worth mentioning , that it is not of the least importance ; too of them being comprised in one revolution of the micrometer screw ; and , in the instance before me , 5,6 of them made no more than a second .
It is not pretended that one of these parts was seen beyond a doubt , being scarcely t-5 of an inch , much less the tenths , as exhibited in the tables ; but , as they were visible upon the micrometer heads , it was judged best to take them into the account .
Having now completed the two first sections of my method of dividing ; namely , the first , which consists of making 256 small round dots ; and the second , in finding the errors of those dots , and forming them into a table ; I come now to the third and last part , which consists in using the erroneous dots in comparison with the tabulated errors , so as ultimately to make from them the true divisions .
It will here be necessary to complete the description of the:remaining part of the apparatus .
And first , a little instrument which I denominate a subdividing sector presents itself to notice .
From all that has hitherto been said , it must have been supposed that the roller itself will point out , upon the limb of the instrument to be divided , spaces corresponding to others previously divided upon itself , as was done in setting off the 256 points : but , to obviate the difficulty of dividing the roller with sufficient exactness , recourse was had to this sector ; which also serves the equally important purpose of reducing the bisectional points to the usual division of the circle .
This sector is represented in full dimensions by Fig. S : it is formed of thin brass , and centred upon the axis at A , in contact with the upper surface of the roller : it is capable of 1^6 being moved round by hand ; but , by its friction upon the axis and its pressure upon the roller , it is sufficiently prevented from being disturbed by accident .
An internal frame B B , to which the are CC is attached , moves freely in the outer one , and by a spring D is pushed outwards , while the screw E , whose point touches the frame B , confines the arc to its proper radius .
The arc of this sector is of about four times greater radius than the roller , and upon it are divided the spaces which must be transferred to the instrument , as represented on a magnified scale by Fig. 4 .
Now , the angle of one of the spaces of the circle will be measured by sixteentimes its angular value upon the sectorial arc , or 22 ? ?
3o ' ; but this does not represent any number of equal parts upon the instrument , whose subdivisions are to be 5 ' each ; for o 4'22 .
" is exactly 16-- , therefore so many divisions are exactly equal to a mean space between the dots whose errors have been tabulated .
Let , therefore , the arc of the sector be divided into i6 spaces of 1 ?
so ' each , and let a similar space at each end be subdivided into eight parts of io ' each , as in Fig. 4 ; we shall then have a scale which furnishes the means for making .
the true divisions , and an immediate examination at every bisectional point .
I have always divided the sector from the engine , because that is the readiest method , and inferio : to none in point of accuracy , where the radius is very short ; but , as it is more liable than any other to centrical error , the adjustment of the arc by the screw E becomes necessary : by that adjustment , also , any undue run in the action of the roller may be reduced .
to ' an insensible quantity.* e nte Itcpage 3o 127 When the utmost degree of accuracy is required , I give the preference to dividing by lines , because they are made with a less forcible effort than dots are ; and also because , if any small defect in the contexture of the metal causes the cutter to deviate , it will , after passing the defective part , proceed again in its proper course , and a partial crookedness in the line will be the only consequence ; whereas a dot , under similar circumstances , would be altogether displaced .
But , on the other hand , where accuracy has been out of the question , and only neatness required , I have used dots ; and I have done so , because I know that when a dot and the wire which is to bisect it are in due proportion to each other , ( the wire covering about two thirds of the dot ) the nicest comparison possible may be obtained .
It may be further observed , that division by lines is complete in itself ; whereas that by dots requires lines to distinguish their value .
On the upper side of Fig. 1 is represented the apparatus for cutting the divisions .
It consists of three pieces JKL , jointed together so as to give to the cutter an easy motion for drawing lines directly radiating from the centre , but inflexible with respect to lateral pressure ; dd are its handles .
The cutting point is hidden below the microscope H ; it is of a conical form , and were it used as a dotting point , it would make a puncture of an elliptical shape , whose longer diameter would point towards the centre .
This beautiful contrivance , now well known , we owe to the ingenuity of the late Mr. HINDLEY of York ; it was borrowed by Mr. RAMSDEN , * and applied with the best effect to his dividing engine .
It might have been mentioned sooner , that in the instance which I have selected as an example of my dividing , the operation took place when the season of the year , and the smoke of London , lad reduced the day to scarcely six hours of effective .
Tlght ; and rather than confine my labours within such narrow limits , I determined to shut out the day-light altogether .
Fig. 7 shows the construction of the lanterns which I used .
A very small wick gave sufficient light , when kept from diverging by a convex lens ; while the inclining nossel was directed down exactly upon the part looked at , and the light , having also passed through a thin slice of ivory , was divested of all glare .
I enter into this description , because , I think , I never saw my work better , nor entirely to so much advantage as in this instance ; owing , perhaps , to the surrounding darkness allowing the pupil of the eye to keep itself more expanded , than when indirect rays are suffered to enter it .
The heat from a pair of these lanterns was very inconsiderable , and chiefly conducted along with the smoke up the reclining chimney .
Previous to cutting the divisions , the parts now described must be adjusted .
The cutting apparatus must be placed with the dividing point exactly at the place where the first line is intended to be drawn , and clamped , so that the adjusting screw may be able to run it through a whole interval .
The microscope H must be firmly fixed by its two pillars bb to the main frame , with its micrometer head at zero ; and with its only wire in the line of the radius , bisecting the first of the 256 dots .
And it should be observed , that the cutting frame and this must not vary respecting each other , during the time that the divisions are cut ; for any motion that took place in either .
would go undiminished to the account of error .
The microscope I is also fastened to the main frame ; but it is only required to keep its position unvaried , while the divisions of the sector pass once under its notice ; for it must have its wires adjusted afresh to these divisions at every distinct course , The microscope I has two wires , crossing each other at an angle of about 400 ; and these are to be placed so as to make equal angles with the divisions of the sector , which are not dots , but lines .
The sectorial arc must also be adjusted to its proper radius by the screw E , Fig. 5 ; i. e. while the main frame has been carried along the circle through a mean interval shown by H , the sector must have moved through exactly 16 of its divisions , as indicated by I.* Things being in this position ; after having given the parts time to settle , and having also sufficiently proved the permanence of the micrometer H and the cutting frame with respect to each other , the first division may be made ; then , by means of the screw for slow motion , carry the apparatus forward , until the next line upon the sector comes to the cross wires of I ; you then cut another division , and thus proceed until the i6th division is cut , = 1 ? ?
20 ' : Now the apparatus wants to be carried further , to the amount of jof a division , before an interval is complete ; but at this last point no division is to be made ; we are here only to compare the division on the sector with the corresponding dot upon the instrument : This interval , however , upon the circle will not be exactly measured by the corresponding line of the sector , which has been adjusted to the mean interval , for the situation of the dot 1 ?
,4 is too far back , as appears by the table of real errors , by 4,8 divisions of the micrometer head .
The range of the screw for slow motion must now be restored , the cross wires of H set back to -4,8 divisions , and the sector moved back by hand , but not to the division o where it began before ; for , as it left off in the first interval at |of a division , it has to go forwards I more before it will arrive at the spot where the 17th division of the instrument 1 ? ?
2e ' is to be made , so that in this second course it must begin at 8short of o : Go through this interval as before , making a division upon the circle at every one of the 16 great divisions of the sector ; and H should now reach the third dot , allowing for a tabular error ofio,2 when the division |-ths of the sector reaches the cross wires of I. It would be tedious to lead the reader through all the variety of the sector , which consists of eight courses ; and it may be sufficient to observe , that at the commencement of every course , it must be put back to the same fraction of a division which terminated its former one ; and that the wire of the micrometer H must always be set to the tabular error belonging to every dot , when we end one interval and begin another .
The eight courses of the sector will have carried us through -2part of the circle , 11 ? ?
15 ' , and during this time , the roller will have proceeded through half a revolution ; for SS is iits close contact with the limb of the circle does not allow it to return with the sector when the latter is set back at every course .
Having in this manner proceeded , from one interval to another , through the whole circle , the micrometer at last will be found with its wire , at zero , on the dot from which it set out ; and the sector , with its i6th division , coinciding with the wires of its microscope .
Having now given a faithful detail of every part of the process of dividing this circle , I wish to remind the reader that , by verification and correction at every interval , any erroneous action of the roller is prevented from extending its influence to any distant interval .
It will be further observed , that the subdividing sector magnifies the work ; that by means of its adjustable arc , it makes the run of the roller measure its corresponding intervals upon the circle ; and , without foreign aid , furnishes the means of reducing the bisectional intervals to the usual division of the circle .
Furthermore , the motion of the wire of the micrometer H , according to the divisions of its head and corresponding table of errors , furnishes the means of prosecuting the work with nearly the same certainty of success , as could have happened , had the 256 points been ( which in practice is quite impossible ) in their true places .
Now .
the whole of my method of dividing being performed by taking short measures with instrunients which cannot themselves err in any sensible degree , and , iniasmuch as those measures are taken , not by the hand , but by vision , and the whole performed by only looking at the work , the eye must be charged with all the errors that are committed until we *come to cxt the divisions ; and , as in this last operation the 132 ig3 hand has no more to do than to guide an apparatus so perfect in itself , that it cannot be easily made to deviate from its proper course , I would wish to distinguish it from the other methods by denomiinatin g it , DIVIDING BY THE EYE.* The number of persons at all capable of dividing originally have hitherto been very few ; the practice of it being so limited , that , in less than twice seven years , a man could hardly hope to becoine a workman in .
this most difficult art .
How far I shall be considered as having surmounted these difficulties , I know n ot ; but if , by the method here revealed , I have not rendered original dividing almost equally easy with what copying was before , I have spent much labour , time , and thought in vain .
I have no doubt indeed , that any careful workman who can divide in common , and has the ability to construct an astronomical instrument , will , by following the steps here marked out , be able to divide it , the first time he tries , better than the most experienced workman , by any former method .
If , instead of subdividing with the roller , the same thing be performed with the screw , it will not give to dividing by the eye any very distinctive character : I have practised this on arcs of circles with success , the edge being slightly racked , the screw carrying forward an index with the requisite apparatus , and having a divided micrometer head ; the latter answers to the subdividing sector , and , being used with a corresponding table of errors , forms the means of correcting the primitive points ; but the roller furnishes a more delicate action , and is by far more satisfactory and expeditious .
It is known to many that the six feet circle , which I am now at work upon for our Royal Observatory , is to be divided upon a broad edge , or upon a surface at right angles to the usual plane of division : The only alterations , which will on that account be required , are , that the roller must act upon that plane which is usually divided upon ; which roller , being elevated or depressed , may be adjusted to the commensurate radius without being made conical , as was necessary in the other case .
The apparatus , similar to the other , must here be fixed immovable to the frame which supports the circle ; its position must be at the vertex , where also I must have my station ; and the instrument itself must be turned around its axis , in its proper vertical position , as the work proceeds .
The above may suffice , for the present , to gratify those who feel themselves interested upon a subject which will be better understood , if I should hereafter have the honour of laying before the Royal Society a particular description of the instrument here alluded to ; a task which I mean to undertake , when , after being fixed in the place designed for it , which I hope will be effected at no very distant period , it shall be found completely to answer the purposes intended .
Should it be required to divide a circle according to the centesimal division of the quadrant , as now recommended and used in France , we shall have no difficulty .
The 1oo ?
of the quadrant may be conveniently subdivided into o1 each , making 4ooo divisions in the whole round .
The 256 bisectional intervals , the two tables of errors , and the manner of proceeding and acting upon them will be exactly the same as before , until we come to cut the divisions ; and for this purpose we must hare another line divided upon the sector .
For 4O ' part of the circle being equal to 5,4 of the usual angular measure Lt ' 2",5 i15divisions ; and just so many will be equivalent to one of the intervals of the circle .
The value of one of the great divisions of the sector will be 10 26 ' 24 " , and that of the -parts , which are to be annexed to the right and left as before , will be 10 ' 48 " , therefore divisible by the engine .
Should any astronomer choose to have both graduations upon his instrument , the additional cost would be a mere trifle , provided both were done at the same time .
It must already have been anticipated , that dividing by the eye is equally applicable to straight lines as it is to circles , 135 An apparatus for this purpose should consist of a bar of brass , three quarters of an inch thick , and not less than three inches broad ; six feet may do very well for the length ; it may be laid upon a deal plank strengthened by another plank screwed edgewise on its lower surface .
The bar should be planed , on both its edges and on its surface , with the greatest exactness ; and it will be better , if it has a narrow slip of silver , inlaid through its whole length , for receiving the dots .
An apparatus nearly similar to the other should slide along its surface , carrying a roller , whose circumference is 12,8 inches , and turned a little conical for the sake of adjustment .
The roller may be divided into 32 parts , each of which when transferred to the bar will give intervals of o,4 of an inch each : The angle of the subdividing sector should of course be 1 1 ?
i5 ' , and subdivided into four parts , which will divide the inch int &amp; otenths : The surface may also receive other lines , with subdivisions suited to the different purposes for which it may be wanted .
The revolutions of the roller and its jparts must be dotted upon the bar ; taking care , by sizing the roller , to come as near the true stanldard measure as possible : When this is done , compare the extent of the greater bisectional number that is contained in the length ; i. e. 128 intervals or 51,2 inches , with the standard measure ; noting the difference as indicated by the micrometer heads : The examination and construction of the table of errors may then be conducted just as was done for the circle .
Being now ready for the performance of its work , the scale to be divided must be laid alongside of the bar , and the true divisions must be cut upon it by an appeal , as before , to the erroneous dots on the bar , corrected by a corresponding table of errors .
The apparatus , remaining entire in the possession of the workman , with its primitive dots , the table of errors , &amp;c. is ready for dividing another standard , which will be precisely similar to others that have been , or may be , divided from it .
It may be considered , indeed , as a kind of engine ; and , as it is not vitiated by the coarse operation of racking with a screw , but performed by only looking at the work , the method will command about three times the accuracy that can be derived from the usual straight-line dividing engine .
Should it be asked , if an engine thus appointed would succeed for dividing circles ?
I answer , Yes ; but I would not recommend it ; because , beyond a certain extent of radius , it is not necessary ; for the errors , which would be introduced into the work by the violence of racking a large wheel , are sufficiently reduced by the comparative shortness of the radius of such instruments as we divide by that method : And , what is still more to the purpose , the dividing engine is four times more expeditious , and bears rough usage better .
I cannot quit the subject of dividing straight lines without observing , that I never had my apparatus complete .
The standard which I made for Sir GEORGE SHUCKBURG EVELYN in 1796 was done by a mere make-shift contrivance , upon the principle of dividing by the eye ; how I succeeded may be seen in Sir GEORGE'S papers on Weights and Measures ( Phil. Trans. for 1798 ) .
I made a second , some years after , for Professor PICTET of Geneva , which became the subject of comparison with the new measure of France , before the National Institute ; and their report , drawn up by Mr. PICTET , has been ably re-stated and corrected by Dr. YOUNG , as published in the Journals of the Royal Institution .
I made a third for the Magistrates of Aberdeen .
I notice the two latter , principally to give myself an opportunity of saying that , if those three scales were to be compared together , notwithstanding they were divided at distant periods of time , and at different seasons of the year , they would be folund to agree with each other , as nearly as the different parts of the same scale agree .
I hope I may here be allowed to allude to an inadvertence which has been committed in the paper mentioned above ; and which Sir GEORGE intended to have corrected , had he lived to conclude his useful endeavours to harmonize the discordant weights and measures of this country .
The instruments which he has brought into comparison are , his own five feet standard measure and equatorial ; General Roy 's forty-two inch scale ; the standard of Mr. AUBERT ; and that of the Royal Society .
The inadvertence is this : In his equatorial , and the standard .
of the Royal Society , he has charged the error of the most erroneous extent , when compared with the mean extent , alike to both divisions ; i. e. he has supposed one of the divisions , which bound the erroneous extent , to be too much to the right , and the other too much to the left , and that by equal quantities : This is certainly a good natured way of stating the errors of work ; and perhaps not unjustly so , where the worst part has been selected ; but , in the other three instances , namely , in General ROY 's , Mr. AUBERT'S , and his own standard , he has charged the whole error of the most erroneous extent to one of the bounding lines .
I was well confirmed in my high opinion of the general accuracy of BIRD 's dividing , when , last winter , * I measured the chords of many arcs of the Greenwich quadrant : That instrument has indeed suffered both from a change in its figure , This paper was written in June i8SoS , and from the wearing of its centre ; but the graduation , considering the time when it was done , I found to be very good .
Sir GEORGE in his Paper upon the Equatorial ( Phil. Trans. for:1793 ) , after some compliments paid to the divider .
of his instrument , says , ( the late Mr. JOHN BIRD seems to have ad " mitted a probable discrepancy in the divisions of his eight 6 feet quadrant amounting to '3 ; " and he refers to BIRD on the construction of the Greenwich quadrant .
This quantity being three times as great as any errors that I met with , I was lately induced to inquire how the matter stood .
BIRD , in the paper referred to , says , " in dividing this instrument I &lt; " never met with an inequality that exceeded one second .
I1 will suppose that in the go arch this error lay towards the ' left hand , and in the 96 arch that it lay towards the right , " it will cause a difference between the two arches of two " seconds ; and , if an error of one second be allowed to the " observer in reading off his observation , the whole amount " 'is no more than three seconds , which is agreeable to what " I have heard , &amp;c. " Sir GEORGE 's examination of his own Equatorial furnishes me with the means of a direct comparison : In his account of the declination circle , we find an error + 2,35 , and another " , ; to these add an error of half a second in each , for reading off which Sir GEORGE also admits , we shall then have a discrepancy of 41,85 ; but , as the errors of reading off are not errors of division , let them be discharged from both , and the errors will then stand , for the quadrant 2 " , and for the circle 3,85 .
As the radius of the former , however , is four times greater than that of the latter , it will appear , by this mode of trial , that the Equatorial is rather more than twice as accurately divided as the quadrant , To 139 In doing justice to BIRD in this instance , I have only done as I would be done by ; for , should any future writer set me back a century on the chronological scale of progressiye improvement , I hope some one will be found to restore me to my proper niche .
I now subjoin a re-statement of the greatest error of each of the instruments that are brought into comparison by Sir GEORGE , after having reduced them all by one rule ; viz. allowing each of the two points which bound the most erroneous extent to divide the apparent error equally between them .
They are expressed in parts of an inch , and follow each other in the order of their accuracy .
Sir GEORGE SEUCKBURG'S 5 feet standard , ooo000165 General Roy 's scale of 42 inches,00024 Sir GEORGE'S Equatorial , 2 feet radius 00oo073 The Greenwich quadrant , 8 feet radius oo465 Mr. AUBERT 's standard , 5 feet long,000700 * The Royal Society 's standard 92 inches long,000795 For the justness of the above statement I consider my name as pledged ; requesting the permission to say , that if on the result of each respective examination , as here presented , there could have been more than one opinion , it would not have appeared here .
I am further prompted to add , that the above comparative view presents one circumstance to our notice , , which cannot do less than gratify every individual who is at all conversant in these matters ; I mean , the high rank which General RoY 's scale takes in the list ; that scale having been made the agent in measuring the base line of our national trigonometrical survey .
To return , finally , to the dividing of circles ; I must state , as matter of precaution , that great care should be taken during the turning of the outer edge , to have the circle of the same temperature ; for one part may be expanded by heat , or contracted by cold , .
so murch more than another , as to cause the numbers in the tables of errors to be inconveniently large .
A night is not more than sufficient for allowing the whole to take the same temperature , after having been handled by the workmen ; and the finishing touch should be given within a short space of time .
But , if the effects of temperature are to be regarded in turning a circle , it is of tenfold more importance to attend to this circumstance , while the examination of the larger arcs of the instrument is carried on ' ; for it is absolutely necessary that , during this time , the whole circle should be of the same heat .
exactly. .
Few workmen are sufficiently aware of this : They generally suppose the expansion of metals to be a trifle which need .
not be regarded in practice ; and wonder how the parts of a circle can be differently heated without taking pains to , make it so .
One degree of FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer indicates so small a portion of heat that , in such places as .
workmen are usually obliged to do their business in , it is not very easy to have three thermometers attached to different parts of a large instrument , .
showing an equality of temperature within that quantity : .
Yet so necessary is correctness in this respect , that if a circle has the vertex one degree warmer than .
its opposite , and if this difference of temperature be regularly distributed from top to bottom , the upper semi-circle will actually exceed .
the lower by " : And , if such should happen to be the case while the examination of the first dot of the third quadrant is made , , Id1 " the regularity of the whole operation would thereby be destroyed .
It may not be improper to remark , that dividing by the eye does not require a more expensive apparatus than the operation of dividing by hand ; and , indeed , less so when the scale of inches is deemed necessary .
The method by adjustment is still more expensive , requiring whatever tools BIRD'S method requires , and , in addition to these , a frame and microscopes , somewhat similar to those for dividing by the eye .
It is somewhat more difficult to give a comparative estimate of the time which the different methods of dividing require .
I know that thirteen days of eight hours each , are well employed in dividing such a circle by my method ; about fiftytwo days would be consumed in doing the same thing by BIRD 's method ; and I think I cannot err much when I state the method by adjustment , supposing every dot to be tried , and that two-thirds of them want adjusting , to require about one hundred and fifty of such days .
The economy of time ( setting aside the decided means of accuracy ) which the above estimate of its application offers to view , will , I think , be considered of no little moment .
By the rising artist who may aspire at excellence , it will at least , and I should hope , with gratitude , be felt in the abbreviation of his labours .
To me , indeed , the means of effecting this became indispensible ; and it has not been without a sufficient sense of its necessity , that I have been urged to the progressive improvement and completion of these means , as now described .
It is but little that a man can perform with his own hands alone ; nor is it on all occasions , even in frames of firmer texture than my own , that he can decisively commandtheir 142 adequate , unerring , use .
And I must confess that I never could reconciie it to what I hold as due to myself , as well as to a solicitous regard for the most accurate cultivation of the science of astronomy , to commit to others an operation requiring such various and delicate attentions , as the division of my instruments .
That my attentions on this head have not failed to procure for me the notice and patronage of men whose approbation .
makes , with me , no inconsiderable part of my reward , I have to reflect on with gratitude and pleasure : And as I look withconfidence to the continuance of that patronage so long as the powers of execution shall give me the inclination to solicit it , I cannot entertain a motive which might go to extinguish the more liberal wish of pointing out to future ingenuity a shorter road to eminence ; sufficiently gratified by the idea of having in the present communication , contributed to facilitate the operations , and to aid the progress of art ( as far as the limited , powers of vision .
will admit ) towards the point of perfection , 143 Table of apparent Ei'rors.:Name of First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth Name oF ?
the Dot .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
the D t,.I:,0 , 6o17,9 4.,6 K12j 0 00 )_ 1_^ _+ 12,21 6,91 +1i7,9 +4,6 +17,1 -4,4 +17'3.44 , ?
0-i,.8,91'..6,71-29,6 [ -- , 5,.9.7 7 8,9 , -6 , 4 , 2:..,..i,6 2 .
22 to..6. .
2,7 o 0o,0o 3,8 .
io 4,7 | 7,0o 67 , " _+ i , o -j-i 5,61 OO +..3 , I " i+ 1 , o/ I+ 3 , 15 1 , [ ... ... ' J 9,8,11,2 -i 6,6 zo2,2 22.6 -30,3 1 , x,6 o , o0 + 1,2 127 i'IT33,7 ] ... .
4,.4 2 3 , 23 , 7,6 76 ' ... .
4.42 1 , ' .
I 5s 56 , T 2,2 i7,69 22,71 I 90,41 .
399 00 5,3 I 8.3 78,7 I 30 , '3 1 66 31,3 3 " { 1 , If+ 11 4,2 + 4,3 21,1 ' 5,6 2,7[,6 4,1 10,111 12,3 ) o , 69 6z i 14,41 23,9 .
6.9fr II'.s1 11,3 11,27J .
i , 5,7J " 6,2 , 2( ... .,2 .
26,7 1'i 39,4 .
/ 9^^3f _ 8,213 Y5,8 1,3 , I / o , 01A ... . .
7,0 .
7 , 7 1+ 1,4 1 32,3 50,6 I 4,2 / 6,6:w 8,2. .
4.4 .
1 'I , + 90.+ 3o,0 , 4,3 / _35,2 .
: 61,9 [ 4.,3 8,4 ' 1,5/ ,41 [ -8,61 5,9/ -2 , o -6,71 38,0o r7i ?
'1"1 ' 7 , &gt; I..6 ... 97..3 , .
+ " 2 7 .
, ,4,9 I ) !
,._.408 ' 84,4 i 8 , o + 6 , o/ I 1i6,3 7 , + 4,0/ o 3,1/ 3,5 " + 1 ' I,0 43,6 ' z 3 ... ... 7,1"- ' .
8,91 ' ... ... . .
" I3 Io3 , / 0 , .
+ i6 , o/ l 14,91 46,4 8.4 o , o0 5 , .
4,6 6 5,7 'l 2 , ' O , 1,7 ' 00 ' 3,5 49,2 , , i14,1 6,6 8,2,61 4,8 I 0 , -10,7 -2,9 1,5 52,0 " |9.~9,7 " 1. .
1,6 ... 2"4+.0 '5 4 .
79../ '27 '2 ' 4,8 .
19 ?
7_ ~ 1,3 [ 6 I -7 '7,2,. .
53 ' 5,3 8 3,7 t 2,5 4{0 3,09 2 , , , o , [ ~ , o [ 57,7 7 ' 30,9 " " 2,4 .
" 71 , ?
11 7.01 _0,0.,3['+ 62,2 1 6 , " 7,1 " 60,5 ir 36.6 / s. / ,9 i+ 10 / ..2 3 , , .
o , i 5,6 i 12,7 ' 3,6 42"z " ' 3,1 / 1.9 / 5+ 72 3,9 + 2 , z2 66,1"',4'8 ... 1Z,4"1 7,2 9 ... . .
47,8 / 771 5",2 -+ 2,4 4,8 +21 4,9 ' " + 21,2 7,2 68,9 ? ?
534 ' " ' 5,6 / 6 ' o -,1 }/ 5,1 71 , , 8,9 -11,7 71,1 ' ; 59,1 ' / 10io,7 _+ o 3,0/ ?+ , " 41/ 5,3/ ' 1,2 ' 'O,..6,6 ' 2,7 74 , 1 ' 64,7 " 7,9 8 , o71 9,0 t 7,2/ 9 .
9.+ , o 5,9 [ 77,3 l 70,3 / 2,7./ 7.4 / , .
1,5i 9,0 / I " 6,1 8 , l 5,3 2,6 / t 86 , ; z2 75,9 1. .
I ... ..jI 75,9 " " ' i. , 5,2..I2I ... 2.A2 , l2 4..+ 44 + 1,4 z,2 ' 4,3/ 83,0 81,6 ' 'I,61 / + , ,7'1 2o , z , " o/ /z"'-0,8 " 0,0/ ' '. .
+'o 85,8 ' , s 87,2:"1 I3,7 6,0o 3"15 " -'s,6i ' + , , I +i , o ' 4.0 .
9,5s 88,6 ' !
, l !
ii !
l !
( 6.I I9 69/ 9\F .
9t Cl 1.8 , *^WB~~~~~~a CI ii " " " ; 533gaEIEEEsaEE i\3u 3 ?
1 3SBatJ Filj3 3X39BBa __-----111-----1---.-- ?
-------KK~ K QIj iI iI 1 , ' i ' , IIM1 r , r0 i Table of real Errors .
Name of First Second Third Foufrth First Second Third Fourth Name ofl the Dot uadrant .
Quadrant .
Q uadrant .
Quadrant. .
Quadrant .
'uadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
Quadrant .
the Dot .
" 0,0 o , o0 8,8 6,9 +'4,4 i --6,91 - .
8 , o --'3 -22,4 4-5',0 1,4 -4,88 0.o,61 i6 , o 1 5,9'16 8,7 1 " " 5,5. .
9,7_1 6 , i 4i 2,8 o2 , 9,3 '24,0 0 2,9 I 4,3. .
9,6 17,41.223 47,8 4,2 1 13,8 .
15,1 9 28,3 1 '2,8 I 22,3 1,9 19 19,9 338 1 49 ' , 5,6. .
3,7 12,51 23,3 " i6 , I j 26t z 26,0 7 31,9 50,6 5 7,0 15,9 I 6,8 28,7 9,4 1 25,5 1 26 , o 2z,6 28,9 S20 i.,. .
7,6J..19 , 32,0. .
27,1o 2 32,01 27,8 30 ?
3 38-3 53-4:9,8 2^1,4[ i6 ; I , .
] _ ' 35,5 30,7 .
1 34,0 : l 27,3 1 29 ' , [ .35',2 .
74'8 i 11,2 , j 2i,61 6,71 31,5 z6,5 26,8 z2 , i 240z _ 32,6 56 ... .',7P 7 27,9 .
2z',6-1 '3 32,2 28,6 { 29,6 24,5 " 29,7 zg"29,8 57,7 ; 14,1.3731,1 26,8 ' 3,5 344''1 I 33,7 ' " ... . .
24,6 9 , ------j 15,5 28,5 22,7 30,2 26,8 30,2.i56 29,3 .
j 26,5 60.5 96. .
2,7,3 !
20,5j ' 32,4 ' 32z,7 9j 19 , 13 24,11 1I9,4 16,9 8,3 ... .29,91 8,.24,2 25,7..2,51 4,6 18,8 23,71 63,3 i1 ' 9,7 1 20,2 1 , " '13,5 1 20o,6j 22,2 I 9,0 21,5.22,4 ) 7,41 47 6 , 21,1 f 22,41 5,91 22,1 i 24,0 ?
I i8,8 19I,9 22,8 I 17,1 i '66 .
'22,5. .
10,0 ) ... i,8 -1 0,91 ' 6,7 ' ) " .
3,0 + .
8 , z ?
f ?
0,7)f + 2,5)..67,5i " 23,9 1 8,8 I 12,2 .
1 6,0 ? ?
149 11 98 9I 2,8 )2,5 3,0 68,9 25,3 , ) I9,8 ) .
15,.5 5 20,2 I 24,01 1 15,7 10o , z 13,7 1 9 , z,7 ?
03 i'26,7 9 -2,71 -16,1i 20,0 [ 33,0 1 21,9 7,0 ... 2I,8 1 825,8 7,7 i8,1 22,1I 12,8 { 23,8 1 36,41 l39 ... .
25 , ~..'I 23,0 .
73 , [ ..j -..29,5 1 I71-2 , ' 9 .
15'8 28,9 1 350 1 ) 27,1 43 253 1 26,8 I 74 , 31,41026,6 67 7,5 ii 30,9..2z,21 i8 , o 3x)4 .
37,0. .
26,6_ 2o , 26,6 3 ?
0,7 75,9 ; .
32,3 1 '24,7')t " .9,3''j 33,3 .
37,7 ) " -i .
33,3 ) " 2I '2 ) 22,7 [ -3 I..77,3..,.331'7 1 1. .
17,4 ) 9 , i1 '25 , I 1 37,6 ) '27,9 ... 16,0).238..29,1 7 78,7".35,2 " 22,71. .
8 , o0 ' 25,1 " ... . .
35,7 .
) 35 , )5 " 14 , 5_ 1856 2 839,5 " z2,7 1 ... .
8o,013i ... 36,6 ... 27,3 I ... , 9 27,40 41,8 ) ) 29,31 9 ' ... .
2 9z 2,4 ... 27.,3 I , 38,0 7 z6,5 1I i5,6 26,9 4 o,61 ... 21 .
I 6,6 75 83,01.39,41 2[ .
6,4 I 16.7 ) .
24,8 ) 43 , ))1 27,5 .
5,42 ... . .
2,6 : 84,4 j1 40 , o8 ) z2,4 ) 7,27 6 25 , 1 33 ; 6- ' )~ 3 , ,o00 791 5.41 I2,61 85,8 ' ' 42,2 I '8,5 ' I.10,4 , 24,7 1 3o , Z " ''1..23,0 o , i 6,8 7S , 87 , : 43,6 1 16,3 i xo , o I 24,6 31,7 1 ' " 1 6,3 3,7 5,9'9 6,45 8s,6 1 !
45 , ?
0~t '1 16j,9)l~ ' , 8 , o)0 ' 3,0o..f 2 : , .
8 , , I 6,9 -4,46 .
o , 900

