]\gt ; On nination ofof Radiaiion .
lb7 The azor applied at the same distance from fixed end sometimes cut throngh the hair before it had bent it as much as ; and this shows that a force of half a grain must make the pressure per unit area at the place of contact sufficient to cause or disruption of the mttterial even when the has entered the hair to a distance comparable with the radius of the latter .
If we sstlme that the thickness of the edge is 1/ 100,000 in .
and it has entered the hair until the length of the edge engaged is 1/ 1,000 in .
, the area in will be about 1/ 100,000,000 of a square inch and the pressure per square inch rather more than 3 tons , if the total force ovel .
the area of contact is half a grain .
It is difficult to get any direct measure of the pressure required to destroy by or shearing the material of hich hair is composed , ]lorn which is of the same nature requlres a much larger pressure than 3 tons per square inch to crush it .
A rough experiment showed that a steel punch with a flat end , began to sink into a block of horn when the pressure as between 12 and 16 tons per square inch .
It would seem , therefore , that althongh optical method shows that the thickness at the edgc cannot be greater than 1/ 100,000 inch , the real thickness judged by the pressure per unit area necessary to cause the edge to cut the way it actually does , must be considerably less than this .
On the Determination of the Wave-length of Electric Badiation by Diffraction Grating By JAGADIS BOSE , .
( Cantab .
) , D.Sc .
( Lond. ) , Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by LORD RAYLEIGH , Sec. B.S. Received June June .
While engaged in the determination of the " " Indices of Refraction of various Substances for the Electric Ray\ldquo ; ' Proceedin of the Royal Society , ' vol. 59 , p. 160 ) , it seemed to me that the results obtained would be rendered more nite if the wave-length of the radiation could at the same time be specified . .
the rela- lation between the dielectric constant and the index as indicated by Maxwel ] , to hold good in all cases , it would follow that the index could be deduced from the dielectric constant and vice ters .
The values of fcund for the same substance by dilferent observers arc , however , found not to agree very well each other .
This may , to a certain extent , be due to the different rates of altel.nation of field to which the dielectrics were subjected .
It has been found in general that the value of is higher for slower rates of alternation J. .
Bose .
On the Determination of the and tlJe deduced value of would therefore be for slow oscilations , the longer waves being thus the more refrangible .
The order of refrangibilities would in such a case appear to be somewhat analogous to that in an dispersive medium like iodine vapour .
With exceedingly quick ethereal vibrations which give rise to light , there is an inversion of the above state of things , , the shorter waves are generally found to be the more refrangible .
It would thus appear that there is a neutral vibration region for each snbstance at which this inversion takes place , and when , re a transparent medium produces no dispersion .
It would be interesting to bs able to detel.mine the indices of refraction corresponding to different wave lengths , chosen as widely apart as possible , and plot a curve of refrangibilities .
A curve couId thus be btained for rock salt , which is very transparent to uminous and obscure radiations , and fairly so to electric radiation .
Carbon bisuIphide , which is very transparent to all but the ultraviolet radiation , would also be a good substance for experiment .
For the construction of a curve of refrangibility for electric rays , having different vibration frequencies , the indices could be determined by the method of total reflection referred to above .
The determination of the corresponding wave-lengths , however , offers great difficulties .
Hertz used for this purpose the method of inter- ference , the positions of nodes and loops of stationary undulation produced by perpendicular reflection being determined by means of tuned circular esonators .
Sarasin and De la Rive subsequently repeated these experiments with different sized vibrators and resonators .
They that the apparent depended solely on size of the resonators .
The wave-length found was approximately equal to eight times the diameter of the circular resonator .
From these experiments it was supposed that the radiator emitted a continuous spectrum consisting of waves of lengths , and that the different receivers simply resonated to vibrations with they happened to be in tune .
lf this supposition be true the emitted radiation should , by the action of a prism , or betber still , tion grating , spread out in the form of a continuous spectrum .
If , on the contrary , the radiation is monochromatic , the spectrum sbould be linear .
The experiments to be described below may throw light on this question .
Professor J. J. Thomson , to the above case , is of opinion that the hypothesis of a continuous spectrum is highly improbable .
It is more likely that , owing to the oscillation being of a dead-beat character , the resonator is set in vibration by the impact of incident electric waves .
Each resonator vibrating at its particular free period , Wale-length of Electric Radiation .
169 measures its wave-length .
There is , however , one difficulty in reconciling the theoretical valus with that actually obtained .
According to theory , the wave-length shonld be equal to twice the ence , or times the diameter of the circular resonator .
The iLlue actually obtained by Messrs. Sarasin and De la Rive is , as has been said before , eight times the diameter of the circle .
Rubens , using a bolometer Lecher 's modificabion of the slide bridge , determined the nodes and loops in a secondal.y circuit in which waves were produced .
A btaiIled by repl.esenting the boJometer deflections as ordinates and the dist nces of the bridge from one end as abscissae , shows the harmonic character of the electric disturbance in the wire .
It was found that the wave-length obtained by this method did not depend on the period of the primary vibrator ; the wave-length measured was merely that of the free vibration stal.ted in the secondary circuit by the disturbance .
Hertz 's method is therefore the only one for the measurement of waves in ai , and the result obtained by this method is vitiated by the fluence of the periodicity of the resonator .
It was therefore thought desirable to ) tain the wave-length of ] ectric radiation in space by a method unaffected by any peculiarity of the receiver .
I hnve succeeded in the of electric diation by the use of curved gratings , and the results obtained to be possessed of considcrable degrees of accul'acy .
Rowland 's method of the curved grating for obtaining diffraction light spcctra was also found well suited for the production of pure of electric radiation .
The focal curve in this arrangement is a circle , having as a diameter the straight line joining the centre of vature C with the apex of the grating .
, the gratiug ; , its apex ; , the focal cul.re .
A source of radiation situated on this will give a acted spectrum , situated on the same curve defined by the equation Dr. J. C. Bose .
On the Determination of the where is the sum of breadths of strip and space in the grating , angle of incidence , angle of diffraction .
The sign oi is taken positive when it lies on the same side of the normal as tb ' incident radiation .
In the above equation there are two interesting cases:\mdash ; ( 1 ) When the receiver is placed at ( 2 ) When the deviation is minimum Arrangement of the Apparafus .
The grating , which is cylindrical , is placed verticalIy on a wooden table , with its at , occupied in the diagram by the spiral spring coherer S. With the radius , which the centre to the apex of the grating , as a diameter , a circle is engraved on the table\mdash ; the focal curve\mdash ; on which the radiator and the receiver are always kept .
A pin is fixed immediately ] the apex , and a graduated ring sunk in the table with this pin as the centre .
The graduated FIG. 2 .
radiator , , and the receiver , round a pivot below the apex of the grating , long the focal curve .
The angles aro measured by the graduated circle , D. circle is used for the measurement of tlJe angles of incidence and diffraction .
Two radial arms revolving round the pin carry the radiator and the receiver .
The ends of the arms near the pin have Wave-length of Electric Radiation Diffraction Grat$ ?
lg .
171 narrow shts , through which the pin projects .
The slits allow the necessary sliding for placing the radiator and the receiver on the focal curve .
It would be better to have the sliding arrangement at the free ends of the arms , the pin passing through the central ends , acting as a pivot .
The circle is graduated into degrees , but onefourth of a degree may be estimated .
Des ription of the Apparatus .
The Raliator.\mdash ; Electric oscillation is produced between metallic beads and an interposed sphere cm .
in diameter .
The and the interposed sphere were at first thickly coated with gold , and the surface highly polished .
This worked satisfactorily for a time , but , after long-continued action , the surface of the ball became roughened , and the discharge ceased to be oscillatory .
After some difficulty in obtaining the requisite high temperature , I succeeded in casti11g a solid ball and two beads of platinum .
There is now no difficulty in obtaining an oscillatory dischalge , and he ball does not require so much looking after .
As an electric generator , I at first used a small Ruhmkorff 's coil , actuated by a .
1 , however , soon found that the usual arrangement is a source of trouble ; the contact points soon got worn out , and the break becomes irregular .
The oscillation produced by a single break is quite sufficient for a single experiment , and it is a mere waste to have a series of useless oscillations .
But the most serious objection to the colltinuous production of secondary sparks is the deteriorating action on the spark balls .
Anyone who has to obtain an oscillatory discharge how easily the discharge becomes ular , and the most fruitful source of trouble is often traced to the disintegration of the sparking surface .
In my later apparatus I have discarded the use of the vibrating interruptel The coil has also been somewhat modified .
A long strip of paraffined paper is taken , and tinfoil pasted on opposite sides ; this long roll is wound ound the secondary to act as a condenser , and connexions made with the interrupting key .
This arrangement FIG. 3 .
The Radiator .
VOL. Dr. J. C. Bose .
On the Determination of the secnres a great saving of space .
Two jointed electrodes carry the two beads at their ends ; the distance between the bead\amp ; and the interposed ball can be thus adjusted .
This is a matter of importance , as th receiver does not properly respond when the spark-length is too .
Small sparks are found more effective with the receiver used .
After a little experience it is possible tell whether the discharge is oscillatory or not .
The effective sparks have a smooth sound , non-oscillatory discharges give rise to a peculiar cracked sound , and appear jagged in outline .
The wires of the primary coil are in connexion with a small storage cell through a tapping key .
The coil , a small cell , and the key are enclosed in a tinned iron box .
It must be borne in mind that a magnetic disturbance is produced each time the primary FIG. 4 .
The Radiating Box , one-fifth naturaI size .
circuit of the induction coil is made or broken ; a sudden variation of the magnetic field disturbs the receiver .
iron box in which the coil is enclosed screens the space outside from magnetic disturbance .
On one side of the box there is a slit throngh which the stud of the press-key projects .
In front of the box is the radiator tube , which may square or cylindrical .
The radiating apparatus used in the following experiments has a square tube 1 .
in .
in section .
The apparatus thus constructed is very portable .
The one which I often use is 7 in .
in height , 6 in .
in lengtb , and 4 in .
in breadth .
To obtain a flash of radiation it is merely necessary to press the key and then release it .
The break is made very sudden by elastic spring .
The Spiral Spring Receiver.\mdash ; The receiving circuit consists of a spiral spring coherer in series with a voltaic cell and a dead-beat galvanometer of D'Arsonval type .
An account of this of re- ceiver has already been given ( vide " " On the Indices of Refraction of Ware-length of lectric Radiation by Diffraction rating .
173 various Substances for the Electric Ray ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 59 , p. 163 ) .
-The receiver is made by alTanging bits of steeI spiral side by side , the sensitive surface being 3 mm. broad and 2 cm .
lengti ] .
An electrical current enters along the breadth of the top spiral and leaves the lowest spiral , haviug to traverse the terrllediate spirals along the numerous points of conbact .
The of the ci cuit is thus ahnost entirely concentrated at itivu contacb facc , there little uscless ciruiting by the nlass of the conducbing layel lVhen electrie radiation is by the sonsitive urfaco , there is a sudden ution of the resistance , and the alvanometec in circuit is violently deflected .
By adjusting electromotive of the circuit ths senbitiveness of the receivel may be increased to any extent desirable .
The receivel at each particuIar adjustment responds best to a definite range of ation lying within about an ocbave .
The same receiver could , however , be mado to respond to a differeut range by an appropriate change of the electromotive force on the circuit .
careful ljustment of the E.M.F. of the circuit is necessal.y to make { he receiver respond at its best to a particular range of electric vibration .
The linefrical \mdash ; The source of spark gap \mdash ; being a line , bhe curved diffraction g.rating is made cylindrical .
The spark gap is always kept vertical ; the grating is made of equidistant metallic strips , which are vertical and pal.allel .
A piece of thin she ebonite is bent in the ape of a portion of a kept shape by screwing against uppe ] .
and lowel circular guide peces of wood .
Against the concave side of the ebonite sruck strips of rather thick tinfoil at equftl intervals .
Five .
J. C. Bose .
On nination of the FIG. 6 .
The Cylindrical Dilfraction gratings were thus made with strips or spaces equal to 3 cm .
, cm .
, 2 cm .
, cm .
, and 1 cm .
respectively .
The diameter of the cylindrical grating is 100 cm .
It would perhaps have been better to use a grating with a less curvature , but it must be remembered that the illtensity of radiation is very feeble , and I was apprehensive of the eceiver failing to respond when pJaced at too great a distance .
I find from the sensibility of the receiver used that it would be possible to increase the diameter of the cylinder to about 150 cm .
, and this I intend to use in the construction of my next grating .
The aperture of the grating is in the .
experiments reduced to the smallest practicable limit .
Account of the Experiments .
The receiver being placed at a suitable position on the focal curve , the radiator is moved about on the same till the diffracted image falling on the receiver produces ponse in the galvanometer .
The adopted is as follows .
The receiver is placed , say , at the centre of the grating .
The electric ray at first falls on the grating at a large angle of incidence .
A series of flashes of electric radiation are now produced by manipulating the key , and the angle of incidence actually dreased till the receiver suddenly responds .
The angle of incidence corresponding to the angle of diffraction is thus determined .
The receiver is then placed at a new position on the focal curve , and the corresponding angle of incidence determined as before .
In this way a series of angles of incidence , with their corresponding angles of diffraction , are found for each grating .
Wave-length of Electric Diffraction rating 175 It should be remarked here that numerous difficulties were encountered in carrying out the experiments .
The reflections from the walls of the room , the table , \amp ; c. , wsle at first sources of considerable trouble .
By taking special care , I succeeded in eliminatin , these disturbances .
The radiating balls were placed about 1 cm .
inside the square tube .
This prevented the lnteral vaves on the .
The receiver was provided with a guard tube , stopped all but the diffracted rndiation the sensitive rface .
The insulated wires from the ends of the eceiver were protected by thick coatings of tinfoil , and led to the alvanometer , which placed at a considerable distance .
The cell and the galvanometer were enclosed in a metallic case with a narrow slit for the passage of light reflected from the galvanometer .
In spite of all these precautions , I was baffled for more than six months by some unknown cause of disturbance which I could not for a long account for .
It was only recently , when nearly convinced of the futility of further perseverance , that I discovered the mistake iu supposing sheets of tinned to be perfectly opaque to electric radiation .
The metal box which contains the radiating ) ) seems to transmit a small mount of radiation through , walls , if the receiver happens to be in a very sensitive condition it responds to the feeble transmitted radiation .
I then made a second allic cover for the radiatiug box , precaution was ound effective , provided the receiver was not brought close to the radiator .
The eceivel .
is still affected if placed ) radiator tnbc , though two sheets be For this reason 1 had to postpone the reading for minimum deviation till I had made a -proof box .
A soft on box ( to prevent escape of glletic lines of induc- tion ) , enclosed iu a second enclosure of thick copper , would , I expect , be found ious to electric radiation .
With the second protecbive enclosure , all difficuIties were tically removed .
As a test for tlJe absence of all disturbing causes , I observed whether the receiver rem$ined unaffected when the gl.ating was " " off There is a further test for the absence of external disturbances .
The response , if only due to the diffracted beam , depends on the position of the radiato on the focal curve .
If this angle of incidence is decreased , there should then be no action on tlIe receiver .
I found the positionr ; of the radiator on the focal curve producing action on the receiver , to be well defined , and I experienced no further turbaT ) due to stray radiations .
The grating is fixed vertically on the table , so that its celltre is at the same height as of the middle of the and radiating tubes .
A small mirror is fixed at the middle of the central strip .
The observer , placing his eye at the same height as that of the Dr. J. C. Bose .
On Determincition of the radiator , levels the till the image of the eye is seen reflected by the mirror .
I first obtained an approximate value of the wave-length with a 2-cm .
grating , and then took careful and systematic readings with the different gratings .
By different gratings is meant the same curved piece of ebonite , on which strips of different breadths were successively applied .
The grating was found fairly adjusted , and the readings taken on the right side of the grating agreed well with the corresponding ones on the left side I did not , therefore , think it necessary to take double readin .
, but took the various readings alternately on the right and on the left side .
In one case only I fonnd the grating on one side giving slightly better eadin than the other .
When the incident angle is too oblique , the diffracted image is not sharp , and I thel.efore did not extend the reading beyond of incidence .
Spectra of the first only were observed .
The response iu the receiving circuit was somewhat feeble when 1 cm .
or cm .
grating was used .
But a 2-cm .
grating gave strongel indications .
With and 3 cm .
gratings the response was very energetio and the definition of the diffracted spectrum very sharp .
Fo.r example , when the receiver was kept fixed , and the angle of incidence gradually varisd , there was an abrupt and strong response produced in the receiving circuit , as soon as the angle of incidence attained the proper value .
A slight variation of angle , even of less than a quarter of a degree , produced displacement of the diffracted , and there was then no further action on the receiver .
Had my graduated circle permitted it , I could have got more accurate readings , radial arms carrying the receiver and radiator were of too primitive a to make it worth while to attempt greater accuxacy .
I give below .
the readings of the angles of incidence and the corresponding angles of diffraction obtained with the different iings , and the wave-length deduced from them .
Gl'ating A. of strip cm .
Wave-length of Electric Radiation action Grating .
177 Grating B.\mdash ; Breadth of strip cm .
rating C.\mdash ; Breadth of cm .
Grating D.\mdash ; Brea dth of cm . .
Grating E. of btrip cm .
lt would thus be seen that the values of obtained from the above experiments are concordant , the mean being cm .
I then carefully remo the electrical vibrator , and nloasued approximately the size of the sparking balls .
The radiator , it must be remembered , was placed vertically inside a sqnare tube , each of whose sides is cm .
The radiator was about 1 cm .
) from the end of the tube .
178 On the Determi , of Wave-length of Electric Radiation .
The diameter of the central ball cm .
each side bead , , Distance between the outer surfaces of the beads cm .
inner ( sparking ) surfaces , , , : , The wave-length , , is almost exactly equal to twice the distance between the sparking surfaces of the beads .
Without ffirther ex- periments with different sized radiators , it is difficult to say whether the above simple relation is accidental or not .
The following rough determinations , made with a second radiator , may be of some interest in connexion with the above .
I took ofl the central splJere from the radiator used the last experiment , and substituted a larger ball .
The distance between the inner sparking surfaces is then cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
Breadth of Strip } cm .
wave-length found is approximately equaI to cm .
, and twice the distanoe between the sparking surfaces is cm .
Conclusion.\mdash ; The experiments described above seem to prove that the acted spectrum is llot continuous , but linear .
The method determining the wave-length of electric radiation by diffraction grating is seen to give results which are concordant .
deter- minations are not affected by the periodicity of the receiving circuit , the receiver being simply used as a radioscope .
With a mounting and a finely graduated circle , it would be to obtain results with a far greater degree of accuracy .
I hope to send , in a future communication , the results obtained with a better form of apparatus , with which I intend to study the relation of the wavelength with the size of the radiator , and the influence of the enclosing tube on the wave-length .
I shall at the same time send an account of transmission gratings .

