XXV .
On Fossil Shells .
By LEWIS WESTON DILLWYN , Esq. F. R. S. In a Letter addressed to the Right Honourable Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , Bart. Pres. R. S. Read June 5 , i823 .
MY DEAR SIR , As fossil shells are more numerous , and generally occur in a better state of preservation than any other of the organic remains , they have become one of the most interesting objects for geological research , and there is such an exact conformity in the structure of many of these fossils with the living genera , as to render it in the highest degree probable , that the habits of their animals were also similar .
By availing ourselves of these analogies , some circumstances attending the distribution of fossil shells may be observed which have hitherto escaped notice , and if you should find them to be sufficiently interesting , or likely to open a new door for enquiry , I beg that you will submit to the Royal Society the following observations on the fossil remains of the Molluscae .
PLTNY , in describing the shell fish which was supposed to yield the Tyrian die , has observed , ' lingua purpurae longitudine digitali , qua pascitur perforando reliqua conchylia ; ' and LAMARCK says , that all those mollusc whose shells have a notch or canal at the base of their apertures , are furnished with similar powers , by means of a retractile proboscis ; and in his arrangement of invertebral animals they form a section of the Trachelipodes , with the name of 'Zoophages .
' Whether all these Trachelipodes are possessed of the same predaceous powers of boring into hard substances , and when there some of them may not subsist chiefly on dead animals , my own observations have led me greatly to doubt ; but this notch or canal is made for the protrusion of a trunk , which is formed to answer the same purposes as the respiratory organs of a Gastrobranchus , * and may serve at once to distinguish a carnivorous species .
The following fossil genera belong to this section of the Trachelipodes-Conus , Oliva , Ancilla , Terebellum , Seraphs , Cypraea , Ovula , Volvaria , Marginella , Voluta , Mitra , Terebra , Buccinum , Harpa , Monocerus , Purpura , Cassis , Cassidaria , Strombus , Rostellaria , Triton , Murex , Ranella , Pyrula , Fusus , Cancellaria , Potamides , and Cerithium .
In all the other genera of turbinated univalves , the lower margin of the aperture , instead of being either notched or channelled , is entire ; and ADANSON , in his History of Senegal , so far back as 1757 , has shown that the Molluscae of these shells have jaws which are formed for feeding on vegetable substances ; and they have been proved , by subsequent observations , to be entirely herbivorous , i. e. the marine genera feed oll alga , and the fresh water and land genera on the leaves of vegetables .
These together constitute the other section of the Trachelipodes , which LAMARCK has called ' Phytiphages , ' and it comprises the following genera of fossils-Turritella , Turbo , Cirrus , Euomphalus , Trochus , Solarium , Delphinula , Scalaria , Natica , Nerita , Ampullaria , -Vivipara , Paludina , Melania , Planorbis , Cyclostoma , Auricula , Tornatella , Bulimus , Helicina , and Helix .
Every turbinated univalve of the older beds from transition lime to the lias , which I have been able to procure , or of which I can find any record , belongs to these herbivorous genera , and the family has been handed down through all the successive strata , and still inhabits our land and waters .
On the other hand , all the carnivorous genera abound in the strata above the chalk , but are comparatively extremely rare in the secondary strata , and not a single shell has been detected in any older-bed than the lower oolite .
As a proof of this rarity it may be remarked , in the list of British fossils which Mr. PARKINSON has given in his Introduction to the Study of Organic Remains , that not one single species of either of the carnivorous genera has been referred to any stratum below the London clay , and only the few following species appear in any of the numerous lists of the secondary strata which are given in CONYBEARE and PHILLIPS ' Outlines of Geology , viz. a Murex* and Pleurotoma-rostrata in the green sand , Cerithium melanoides in chalk marle , and a few species of Rostellaria in various strata from chalk marle to the lower oolite .
For the Pleurotoma and the Cerithium , a reference to the Mineral Conchology is given ; andMr .
SOWERBY there only says that he has seen an imperfect cast , very like the former , from the canal at Devizes ; and of the latter , that it was found in the London clay , and in the clay above the chalk at Newhaven .
It is also worthy of remark , that all the above-mentioned Rostellarie which have been found in secondary strata are nearly allied to the Linnaean Strombus Pes Pelecani ; and it may be observed that this species , when fully grown , has not any open canal at its base ; and that in the figure which MULLER has given of the animal there is no appearance , nor in MONTAGU'S description is any mention made , of that retractile proboscis or respiratory trunk , which are the distinguishing characters of a carnivorous Trachelipode .
I therefore propose to remove these Rostellariae of the secondary strata , which are readily distinguished by the remarkable expansion of their outer lips , to form a separate genus with PETIVER'S name of Aporrhais and the other fossil Rostellariae which have the recent Strombusfissus , for their type are only to be found in strata above the chalk .
Small circular holes , which have been bored by the predaceous Trachelipodes , are frequently found in recent shells , and I have seen exactly similar holes in many fossils , but they have all been taken from the London clay or crag ; nor have I been able to find any such appearance in any fossil of the older formations .
If this observation should be confirmed by a more extended examination of other cabinets , it will prove that neither the Aporrhaides , or any of those few undoubtedly carnivorous species which have been found in the secondary formations , were furnished with any such predaceous powers as PLINY has described , and that they belong to a subdivision of the Trachelipoda zoophaga , which feed only on dead animals .
Without attempting to distinguish the more predaceous from these other genera , I shall however at present content myself with proving , and for this I have adduced sufficient evidence , that the whole family of the carnivorous Trachelipodes are extremely rare in all those strata where the Ammonites and other Nautilidae abound .
396 In describing the Ammonites , DE MONTFORT , in his Conchologie Systematique , observes , that they are found of all sizes , " depuis la grandeur d'une Lentille jusqu'a celle de 8 pieds de diametre ; " and , as a proof of their great abundance , LAMARCK says , " La route d'Auxerre a Avalon , en Bourgogne , est ferree avec des Comes d'Ammon .
" These Ammonites , as well as most of the other principal multilocular genera , appear to have become extinct in our northern latitudes when the chalk formation was completed ; but a few of the Nautilida still inhabit the southern ocean , and their molluscae belong to the carnivorous order which LAMARCK has described under the name of Cephalopodes .
From the occurrence in such great numbers of the carnivorous Trachelipodes in the formation above the chalk , it therefore appears , that the vast and sudden decrease of one predaceous tribe has been provided for by the new creation of many genera , and a myriad of species possessed of similar appetencies , and yet formed for obtaining their prey by habits entirely different from those of the Cephalopodes .
It may be farther observed , that all the marine genera of the herbivorous Trachelipodes to which either of the fossil species belongs , are furnished with an operculum , and that the few carnivorous species which have been found in the secondary strata , agree with them in this particular , although the unoperculated genera are very abundant in the London clay .
LAMARCK , of the fresh water Trachelipodes says , that those which are not furnished with an operculum are formed for the occasional respiration of air ; but I believe that this observation is not applicable to the marine genera ; and it was ADANSON'S opinion , that the operculum is intended for the protection of the animal ; nor can I imagine any thing against which such a shield would be more necessary than the long and pliable fingers of the Cephalopodes , when they abounded in the seas , as they must formerly have done .
It is , therefore , at least a curious coincidence , that all the marine Trachelipodes of the transition and secondary strata , of which I can find any record , belong to genera which are furnished with an operculum , and that none of the numerous unoperculated genera should have been found in any other than the tertiary formations where the Ammonites disappear .
For the protection of the testaceous Gasteropodes no such shield would be wanting , and including this order it may be generally observed , that none of the marine unoperculated Mollusce , except the Cephalopodes , are to be found in the lias , or in any of its older strata ; and it appears to me that a much greater approach towards the same variety of testaceous animals which now inhabits our seas is to be found in the adjoining bed of lower oolite .
The foregoing observations are confined chiefly to British fossils ; for as a few of the testaceous Cephalopodes still live in the warmer climates , it is possible that the Ammonites , as well as some others of the extinct genera may have existed longer , and that their remains may be fouid in the tertiary formations of the more southern latitudes .
Although fossil Nautilidae are common in the secondary strata of the United States , they are said not to have been found in South America ; and it may therefore be queried whether the Cephalopodes were not confined to the more northern latitudes when the chalk formation was completed , and whether a decrease in the earth 's temperature at that period may not have occasioned the entire destruction of some genera , and a migration of others to the southward .
It is highly probable , when a more perfect knowledge of the testaceous animals has been obtained , that the line of enquiry which I have now suggested may be greatly extended , and the collected tendency of such analogies between the habits of living animals and the organic remains of the different strata , may serve to throw some light on the nature of the changes which the surface of our planet has undergone .
I am , my dear Sir , Yours very sincerely , L. W. DILLWYN .
Penllergare , May 19 , 1823 .
399

