249 Petrifactions of the Earliest European Angiosperms .
By Mahie C. Stopes , D.Sc .
, Ph. D. , F.L.S. , Fellow of University College , London .
( Communicated by D. H. Scott , F.R.S. , Pres. L.S. Received February 20 , \#151 ; Read May 2 , 1912 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper records the existence of Angiosperins in England in Aptian times , i.e. at a geological period when they have been hitherto supposed not to exist in Northern Europe ; describes botanically the anatomy of these fossils , which come under three new genera ; and notes the points of structural and phylogenetic interest in them , as being the oldest Angiosperms of which the anatomy is preserved , and contemporaneous with Bennettites .
The specimens are from the Lower Greensand ; all are in the Geological Department of the British Museum .
All are woody Angiosperm with secondary thickening , of which the internal anatomy is preserved .
In one of the specimens the petrifaction of the tissues is remarkably beautiful , showing the pit canals in the wood fibres , ray cells , etc. The three specimens differ so much that they are put into three different genera to which entirely non-committal names are given , as there is no evidence that they belong to any extant family .
The plants described are shortly:\#151 ; Aptiana radiata , gen .
et spec , nov .
, a woody stem about 3-5 cm .
in diameter , with pith and cortex preserved .
The vessels are exceedingly small , comparatively evenly scattered , little disturbing the rows of fibre-tracheids composing the uniform wood .
The rays are numerous , uniseriate , and three- to four-seriate , the latter with funnel-shaped expansions in the phloem .
Woburnia porosa , gen .
et spec , nov .
, part of the secondary wood , with large numbers of exceedingly large vessels , and broad rays .
Sabulia Scottii , gen .
et spec , nov .
, decorticated woody stem with pith , in which all the tissues are much thickened , and the vessels principally in pairs .
All are undoubted Angiosperms , which cannot be referred to any living form , though in individual details of structure they resemble one or other of the families of modern Angiosperms .
That they are contemporaneous with Bennettites gives them a further point of theoretic interest .
Their chief importance lies in the fact that they are the first Angiosperms to be described from this early horizon in Northern Europe , and that they are the oldest Angiosperms of which we know any part of the anatomy .
VOL. LXXXV.\#151 ; B. s

