II .
" On the Influence of White Light , of the different Coloured IRays and of Darkness , on the Development , Growth , and Nutrition of Animnals .
" By HORACE DOBELL , M.D. , Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians , &amp;c. &amp;c. Communicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. Received January 10 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author laid before the Society the particulars of a series of experiments , having for their object to discover what influence is exerted by ordinary light , by the different coloured rays , and by darkness on the development , grow , and nutrition of anim1als .
After referring to the experiments of Edwards , Higginbottom , E. Forbes , Morren , Wohler , Hannon , Moleschott , and Beclard , the results of which were shown to be somewhat contradictory , the author described the precautions taken by himself to avoid sources of fallacy .
The original experiments detailed in this Paper were conducted in the years 1855 , 1856 , 1857 , 1858 .
The subjects selected were the Ova and Larva of the Silkworm ( Bownbyx mori ) and of the Frog ( Rana temporaria ) .
A comparative experiment in the vegetable kingdom was also made on the Sweet Pea ( Lathyrus odoratus ) .
An apparatus contrived for the experiments on Tadpoles was described and figured ; it secured the following desiderata:1 .
That each of six compartments or cells should be supplied with water from the same source , at the same time , subject to the same changes , and capable of being refreshed without interfering with the cells .
2 .
That each of the cells should be placed in the same condition with respect to the supply of air and of food .
3 .
That during exposure for examination of the animals , the whole series should be opened the same length of time and to the same extent .
4 .
That each cell should receive no light but that transmitted by its proper cover .
One of these six cells was open to the air and to light ; one was covered with ordinary white glass ; one was made completely dark by a covering of blackened opaque glass ; one was covered with blue , one with greenish yellow , and one with red glass .
The transmitting and absorbing powers of these glasses were detailed from experiments made upon them by Mr. Cornelius ianbury , jun .
, and by the author .
The apparatus used for the Silkworms was , in all essential particulars , the same as that for the Tadpoles , only without water .
A tabulated analysis of the daily journal kept during the experiments was given , and its separate items compared and discussed ; after which the author concluded his Paperwith the following resume .
" If we may venture to reason on so small a number of observations , so far as the results of these experiments are concerned , the following propositions may be advanced .
x " sAlt other conditions being the same , ( 1 .
) The Ova of Insects are not directly influenced in their development by white light , by the different coloured rays , or by darkness .
s " ( 2 .
) The Larvce of Insects are not directly influenced in their development , growth , nutrition , or metamorphoses by white light , by the different coloured rays , or by darkness .
" ( 3 .
) The Larvae of Batrachia Reptiles are not directly influenced in their development , growth , nutrition , or metamorphoses by white light , by the different coloured rays , or by darkness .
' " ( 4 .
) The Materials necessary to the Colour of Insects and Reptiles are prepared equally under the influence of white light , of the different coloured rays , and of darkness .
" These results are so opposed to preconceived ideas upon the subject to which they relate , that they cannot fail to excite some surprise and incredulity ; when , however , they are carefully considered , they assume a theoretical probability , which assists us in believing that the practical results are without fallacy .
( a. ) With regard to the development of the ovum , when we consider the unity of plan which appears to preside over the germs of the simplest and of the most complicated forms , and the infinite variety of external conditions in which these germs are placed throughout the animal kingdom , we are led to the conclusion that their development must be so arranged as to be independent of the direct influence of light .
( b. ) That after emerging from the ovum the animal is not directly influenced by light , is more difficult , at first , to believe , because experience seems to have taught us that " to live without light is to live without health ; " but this familiar fact may be at once disposed of in the argument and explained by its coincident , that , under ordinary circumstances , the admission of light is inseparably connected with , 1 .
The regulation of external temperature .
2 .
The free circulation of a respiratory medium .
3 .
Those processes of vegetable life and of inorganic change upon which the proper condition of the respiratory medium depends .
Speaking generally then , it must be admitted that light is essential to the development , growth , and nutrition of animals , but only indirectly .
In the foregoing experiments , the usual coincidents of light , a proper supply of food , a due aeration of the respiratory medium , a properly regulated external temperature , &amp;c. having been provided in each cell , the direct influence of light only being changed , no corresponding change occurred in the animal life .
In the vegetable kingdom the case is quite different , and the experiments on Lathyrus odoratus recorded in this paper demonstrate again , what has been shown by numerous other experimenters , that light as a direct agent is essential to the nutritive processes of plants .
An interesting exception occurs , however , in the vegetable kingdom , which serves to strengthen the probability that the conclusions arrived at concerning animals are correct , viz. that fungiwhich derive their nutriment , like animals , from organic compounds already prepared for them-perform their vital functions without dependence on the influence of light .
Under the head of colour , it would seem that the familiar phenomenon of etiolation witnessed in plants which have been deprived of light , has led to erroneous anticipations as to the effect which alterations of light would produce upon the development of the colouring materials in animals .
In the experiments here recorded , it is seen that neither white light , nor the different coloured rays , nor darkness altered the development of those materials , necessary to the exhibition of colour , when the animal was seen in ordinary light .
The experiments of Dr. Gladstone , on plants , also show that the development of colouring matter in the petals of flowers is independent of the influence of light ; that flowers raised under the different coloured rays and in darkness have the same colour in their petals as when raised in ordinary light .
Thus , even in vegetables , etiolation is confined to those parts of the plant which depend for their colour upon the condition of the chlorophyl , to the green appearance of which some portion of the solar beam is evidently essential .
Although , therefore , at first sight , the results of my experiments under the head of colour may appear questionable , I think we must rather throw the question upon the correctness of our preconceived notions on the subject ; and the facts elicited by Prof. Edward Forbes ( referred to in the Paper ) , while retaining all their value and interest as assistants in determining the depths of primeval seas , cannot , I think , be taken as evidence against the correctness of my observations .
On the other hand , the results of my experiments may be found to put a new construction upon the facts observed by Prof. Forbes .
He discovered that increased depth of sea corresponds with diminished light , and that both of these conditions again correspond with peculiar changes in colour , and ultimately with loss of colour in the shells inhabiting these depths ; but there is no evidence to show that these colourless shells have developed any materials capable of manifesting colour after exposure to the influence of light ; whereas my own and other experiments show that the etiolated stalks and leaves of plants speedily manifest the characteristic colour of the chlorophyl if placed in the sun 's rays .
So far , therefore , as our present knowledge on the subject justifies any conclusion , the varieties of colour and the absence of colour in the mollusks are physiologically separated from the phenomena of etiolation in plants , and may be placed in the same category as the varieties of colour and the absence of colour in the corollas of flowers , which depend upon the development of materials having certain optical properties .
The beautiful facts observed by Prof. Forbes , instead of being regarded as the consequence of imperfect exposure to light , must , I think , take rank with the phenomena of coloration observed throughout the animal kingdom , such as the peculiar markings of reptiles , birds , and wild animals , according to their different habitats and modes of life ; the colours of the upper and lower surfaces of fish , and the like , which cannot be shown to depend upon the exposure or non-exposure to light with which they frequently , but not always , coincide .
These facts appear only to form a part of the vast and perfect plan of creation , in which everything that exists is suited in every particular to the conditions of its existence ; thus , those mollusks which are designed to inhabit depths scarcely permeable to light , can have no need , and hence have no provision , for elements , to the manifestation of which light is an essential condition .

