527 Notes on the Polymorphism of T. gambiense , etc. found within the lymphocytes of guinea-pigs , and by means of the jelly method of examination , the development of these bodies into free spirochsetes is demonstrated in the same way that it has recently been shown that " KurlofFs bodies " also become spirochsetes .
I would suggest that these new parasites be called Spirochceta lumbrici .
REFERENCES .
1910 .
H. C. Ross and J. W. Cropper , 'Induced Cell-reproduction and Cancer , ' London , John Murray .
1912 .
E. H. Ross , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 85 , p. 67 .
Notes on the Polymorphism of Trypanosoma gambiense in the Blood and its Relation to the Exogenous Cycle in Glossina palpalis .
By Miss Muriel Robertson .
( Communicated by the Tropical Diseases Committee of the Royal Society .
Received July 5 , 1912 .
) I. Introduction .
The following paper deals with the well-known phenomena of the fluctuation in the numbers of trypanosomes present in the blood of an animal infected with T. gambiense , and with the equally familiar question of the polymorphism of the parasites .
The relation of these factors to the production of infected G. palpalis is also discussed , and evidence is brought forward to show that a certain type of trypanosome is responsible for the carrying on of the cycle in the transmitting host .
The actual details of the structure of the trypanosomes and the sequence of developmental stages in the fly are not touched upon in this account .
They will , I hope , form the subject of a subsequent paper .
II .
General Condition of a T. gambiense Infection .
It is advisable to consider first the fluctuation in the numbers of the parasites .
It is important to note here that a close study of any given infection brings out very clearly that the multiplication of the trypanosomes occurs in the circulating blood-stream .
Search has also been made for any type of multiplication in the cells of the lung , liver , and spleen , so far entirely without success .
Moreover , the invariable correlation between a rise in the 528 Miss M. Robertson .
Polymorphism of [ July 5 , number of trypanosomes and a rise in the percentage of dividing forms renders such a development very improbable .
The factors controlling the numbers of flagellates present in the blood at any given time fall naturally into two categories .
( 1 ) Those conditioned by the vertebrate host .
( 2 ) Those conditioned by the parasite .
Phagocytosis , alterations in temperature and the liberation in the serum of protective substances ( possibly also any alteration in the viscosity of the blood ) constitute the more important reactions on the part of the host likely to influence the condition of the trypanosomes , to act as inhibiting circumstances to the multiplication and to cause reduction in the number of the parasite .
The important factors in regard to the trypanosome itself are the self-conditioned processes within the body of the parasite and the production of toxic substances due to its metabolism .
By self-conditioned processes I mean such manifestations as the inherent capacity for division and nutrition and the general vigour and adaptability of the parasitic organism .
The actual reduction in the numbers of the trypanosomes sets in as soon as the nugatory conditions , whatever their origin , get the upper hand .
It is obvious that a continual state of tension exists between the capacity of the host to destroy the parasite and the capacity of the parasite to maintain itself .
If these facts are borne in mind the nature and the details of the fluctuations are more easily comprehended , though it may not be clear exactly which set of factors is at work .
The two sets of factors here mentioned form , it is clear , merely two general groups of conditions ; each group represents obviously a very complex aggregate of interacting circumstances concerning which we have at present practically no knowledge .
Thus , so far from knowing what inhibits the multiplication of an organism , we have still , in spite of the very valuable work of Hertwig , Loeb , and Klebs , very little knowledge as to what are the conditions that determine the normal division of any cell .
This last must be touched upon later .
It is not , therefore , to be supposed that the unravelling of the conditions obtaining in an infected monkey does more than afford a certain clearness and precision to our view of the picture presented .
The drop in the number of trypanosomes is often sudden , but the completeness of the clearance varies within wide limits , and the duration of the depressed period is quite inconstant .
The complex factors at work producing such a reduction may supervene at any period as regards the absolute number of trypanosomes present , but 19 ] 2 .
] T. gambiense and its Relation to G. palpalis .
529 the first indication that these factors have begun to come into operation is most often a reduction in the percentage of dividing forms .
The actual disappearance of the trypanosomes is , moreover , generally preceded by a shorter or longer period , during which the numbers are relatively stable and the divisions few .
There are , however , occasional exceptions to this rule , and the numbers may suddenly be checked and reduced in the middle of a rise .
The mechanism by which the trypanosomes are destroyed has not been studied , but the work of other observers all points at present , as far as I am aware , to phagocytosis .
One must , however , consider in passing ( if only to dismiss it ) the possibility of the trypanosomes entering into the cells of the host , and undergoing some form of development at this period .
All the evidence is against this assumption on account of the important fact that the trypanosomes reappear relatively gradually , and their appearance is always accompanied by active multiplication in the blood stream .
This fact is also of interest in showing that the disappearance is a genuine destruction and not a mere withdrawal of the parasite from the peripheral blood .
Lysis in the blood stream is also a possible explanation of the method of reduction in the numbers .
There is a certain amount of evidence in favour of this to be drawn from a consideration of the endogenous cycle .
It will be discussed in a later section .
The essentials of the fluctuation just sketched are repeated interminably with monotonous similarity , the only features liable to variation being the absolute numbers of trypanosomes involved and the time coefficient .
That is to say , the drop may leave a fair number of parasites in the blood , and the rise may occur without further reduction , or the drop may be very complete ; it may be sudden or more gradual .
The depressed period may be long or short .
Thus also the rise may be more or less rapid ; the exalted period may be longer or shorter ; the whole process may take place with low absolute numbers , that is to say , the exalted period may not involve a very high number of parasites\#151 ; this last is often very characteristic of the later months of an infection .
A stable or relatively level period may proceed to a rise instead of to a drop , owing probably to the removal of some temporary inhibition .
The extreme variability of these two elements , namely , the duration of time of the various periods and the absolute number of trypanosomes involved , produces a quite fictitious appearance of confusion .
The essentials of the process are in reality extraordinarily constant .
As a matter of practical technique these points are more easily demonstrated 530 Miss M. Robertson .
Polymorphism of [ July 5 , in the earlier periods of the infection when the absolute numbers are relatively high .
I have worked exclusively with monkeys , but no doubt the process is very similar in other animals infected with T. Superficially , guinea-pigs and rats seem to behave as monkeys in regard to the fluctuations , but no detailed study has been made of them .
The coming and going of the trypanosomes described above may be considered to be the endogenous cycle in the blood of the vertebrate .
To consider now the polymorphism of the trypanosome and its relation ( 1 ) to the endogenous cycle , ( 2 ) to the production of infected flies , to the exogenous cycle in the fly .
III .
Method .
The method employed in studying the trypanosome is as follows .
Blood-films are taken daily from a gambiense monkey at the same hour ( 9 a.m. ) ; are fixed by exposure to osmic vapour for half a minute ; are immediately plunged into absolute alcohol and left for 10 to 20 minutes .
Then they are dried in air and stained with Giemsa 's fluid .
This method , while it gives the worst possible picture of the nuclear detail , has nevertheless excellent qualities in regard to the type of result at present required .
To begin with , it fixes all the trypanosomes present in the drop of blood , which no true " wet method " does with absolute certainty ; it flattens the creatures into one plane so that they may be more easily drawn , it is rapid , the errors are apparently very uniform , and it agrees with the method employed by other workers .
Whenever possible 100 trypanosomes were drawn with the camera at 2000 magnification .
They were measured by means of a compass set at a distance corresponding to one micron , as in Bruce 's method .
The results were tabulated , and finally plotted out on squared paper and a curve drawn .
In cases where the trypanosomes were very scarce 25 or 20 , and in one instance 10 , trypanosomes had to suffice ; it is , however , obvious that in these cases the smaller numbers are quite as good a sample of the total forms present as 100 individuals on days when the parasites were more numerous .
The above method of measuring has been criticised by Dr. E. W. W. Stephens , * who recommends the projection of the trypanosomes on to a screen in a dark room and considers that the actual measurement should be done by the " tangent line method .
" Drawing by means of the camera is obviously open to criticism , but the projection of the trypanosomes on to a screen is a counsel of perfection beyond the present achievement of workers in Central Africa .
Dr. Stephens * 4 Sleeping Sickness Bulletin 36/ 1912 , No. 4 .
1912 .
] T. gambiense and its Relation to G. palpalis .
531 objection to the compass method is- that the last fraction has often to be estimated .
This last criticism is not important in the present instance , since , for example , the point 19 on the squared paper simply implies that the length of the trypanosome falls between 18*50 fi and 19*50 / x. The minute fraction of a micron need not cause undue anxiety when it is remembered to what rigorous treatment a soft protoplasmic organism has been subjected in the obviously energetic process of fixing and staining .
Moreover , it is the relative and not the absolute lengths that are significant in the present connection , and , further , in no case do the important considerations turn on very slight differences of size .
All possible care has been taken with the drawings , and it is hoped that the inevitable coefficient of human error will be compensated for and evened out by the relatively large numbers of individuals involved .
By comparing the daily curves the distribution of the different types of trypanosomes in relation to the endogenous cycle can be observed with considerable precision .
Cages of newly hatched laboratory-bred flies were fed daily when possible upon the selected monkey , and the nature of the trypanosome infection at the time of feeding was further studied in relation to the number of infected flies produced .
Each cage was fed only once on the infected monkey , and every possible care was taken to see that the flies had actually fed .
To obviate individual idiosyncrasies in the blood of clean monkeys used to nourish the flies during the experiment , the monkeys were pooled , and every cage was fed on each of the group in turn during the first 15 days .
The nature of the food does not seem to affect the production of infected flies after the first days .
Owing to some other experiments being carried on at the same time in the laboratory , most of the cages were actually tested as regards infectivity , and produced typical infections in the test animals in every case in which flies were present .
IV .
Endogenous Cycle .
Before considering the experiments in detail , it is best to give a brief account of the general results obtained .
T. gambiense varies in length from 10 microns to 34 microns .
The minimum and maximum lengths are rarely reached , the bulk of the forms varying between 15 / iand 32 jjl .
There is really no sharp distinction into separated types , though the range of variation is relatively very wide .
The trypanosomes may , nevertheless , be divided up readily enough into short , long , and intermediate individuals , but the intermediate forms insensibly join up the short and the long specimens .
There is a continued transition from one type to another , but the duration of the different states varies 532 Miss M. Robertson .
Polymorphism of [ July 5 , considerably , and it is this variability of the time factor , coupled with the striking appearance of the individuals at either end of the scale , that has led to the belief that the species is really dimorphic .
Such figures as 6-8 and 1-3 , showing respectively short and long forms , have fostered this idea , and seem further to have suggested that the difference is an expression of sex .
Neither of these hypotheses has , however , been sufficiently tested .
If one infection is carefully followed through a typical revolution of the IX Camera drawings , x 2000 .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 3 , long slender types .
Figs. 4\#151 ; 5 , typical early division stages .
Figs. 6\#151 ; 8 , short forms .
Figs. 9\#151 ; 11 , intermediate forms . .
Figs. 12\#151 ; 13 , rare individuals of intermediate type in division .
endogenous cycle , the following conditions are found to obtain .
It is convenient to choose the period immediately after a marked drop in the numbers , as the starting point .
At such a time there are very few trypanosomes present in the peripheral blood , and they are short types.* As a matter of fact , the shortest trypanosomes of the cycle are to be found at this period .
* See Tables 18 and 9 .
The tables referred to are not reproduced here , but are reserved for publication in a forthcoming Report of the Sleeping Sickness Commission .
1912 .
] T. gambiense and its Relation to G. palpalis .
They have a short free flagellum , or may show practically no free flagellum , though it is never easy to be perfectly certain of the exact point where the body may be said to end absolutely and flagellum alone to exist .
The breadth varies , but the forms are usually rather broad , measuring about 2 to 2*50 microns .
In the course of the next few days there may be a level depressed period , with little or no increase in number , and there is correspondingly little change in type .
As already said , the depressed period may be very short , or may last a number of days .
The time factor , it must be emphasised , is open to the most capricious variation at all periods of the cycle .
At the time when the first signs of a rise in numbers have occurred , it is found that with these there appears an immediate alteration in type , and long , slender , and intermediate forms are to be found , in addition to the short forms already present .
The sequence of events can be seen very clearly in cases where the depressed period shows a fair number of trypanosomes and where the rise is relatively slow ; this is a quite frequent occurrence and the conditions are as follows:\#151 ; The first sign that a rise is about to take place is an increase in the size of a number of the trypanosomes ; they become longer and there is a general increase in the length of the free flagellum .
The width does not alter at first , and there is thus produced a state of affairs showing only short and intermediate forms , or if the increase in size is very general , intermediate forms may exist for the time being almost alone .
This is an important moment in the cycle , as will be seen hereafter ; some deeper physiological change in the trypanosomes accompanies the increase in size , or , rather , sets in at some period during the increase .
It is to be noted here that the rise in the numbers of intermediate forms ( figs. 9\#151 ; 11 ) at this stage occurs at the expense numerically of the short forms , and one is , it appears , in every way justified in assuming that they are derived one from the other .
There now occurs a marked drawing out of the body in a proportion of the parasites , and there are thus produced long , slender individuals such as that shown in figs. 1-3 , and immediately upon this , the first burst of division occurs .
Naturally , if this process just sketched takes place very rapidly or very gradually , or with very low numbers , it is somewhat obscure , as the consecutive stages do not stand out with sufficient clearness .
As soon as the division actually takes place there is a reappearance or an increase , as the case may be , of the short forms .
So that there are present long , short , and intermediate forms and dividing individuals .
As the rise proceeds the relative numbers of these types vary , but there is always , as 2 p VOL. lxxxv.\#151 ; B. 534 Miss M. Robertson .
Polymorphism of [ July 5 , a glance at the tables will show , a relative decrease in the numbers of the long and intermediate individuals as soon as there is a lull in the number of the divisions .
At the height the divisions cease or drop to a very low percentage , and correlated with this there is a reduction in the two types just mentioned .
This disappearance of the long and intermediate forms is so marked that , just before the large drop in absolute numbers sets in , there is a state of affairs in which once more the shorter range of forms is almost the only one represented ( see Table 16 ) .
It is rather important to note that the main drop in numbers is usually preceded by a slight but quite definite numerical reduction which seems to set in after the divisions begin to slacken , so that it appears as though the inhibition of the divisions were already accompanied by a certain amount of actual destruction of the trypanosomes , though this is not yet serious in extent .
This check in the divisions before the large drop in the numbers is evidence in favour of the serum exerting a harmful influence upon the parasites .
The inhibition of division can hardly be an effect of direct phagocytosis , and suggests that a certain amount of trypanolysis may occur in the circulating blood-stream .
The vacuolated appearance of the trypanosomes to be noted in some cases just before or during the drop seems to lend further weight to this view .
Now one of the most striking points in the foregoing account is that the forms about to divide are the long slender ones .
Tigs .
4 and 5 give the typical picture of the earliest stages .
The disappearance of this form when the divisions cease is also most striking in this connection , , so that one is led to the conclusion that the long types are forms in preparation for division .
Briefly therefore my interpretation of the endogenous cycle is as follows:\#151 ; The short forms ( 15-20 f)constitute the normal adult blood type ; this -expression is merely used to indicate the form which has the largest duration in time in the cycle and which is the most stable .
These increase in size and bulk , and form that sliding scale of individuals which may be termed the intermediate forms ; these in turn lengthen out to the long , more slender types , which proceed to divide , giving rise once more to the short forms .
The products of division are often unequal to a varying extent .
One individual is usually much shorter , has a very short free flagellum or none at all , while the other partner may be of considerable length .
Where this occurs there is a suggestion that the longer individual may proceed to divide again within a very short period , but the point is not very clear .
Early dividing individuals are found more nearly approximating to the intermediate type , but they are not numerous ( figs. 12 and 13 ) and appear to 1912 .
] T. gambiense and its Relation to G. palpalis .
535 be simply the representatives of the lower end of the range of size at which division occurs .
In very numerous swarming periods or during very rapid rise they appear to be slightly more frequent and are probably due to a tendency to telescope the consecutive stages .
It is to be observed that the kinetonucleus in these types not infrequently divides at right angles to the long axis of the trypanosome instead of parallel to it as is usual in the typical gambiense division .
I am inclined to think that this may be an indication that the general tendency towards the drawing out in length has been suppressed in some way in these individuals .
These divisions form only a very small part of the total numbers .
A sex interpretation of the above facts appears to me to be so improbable as hardly to merit discussion , and the arguments , as will be seen later , derived from the results of the glossina experiments are entirely contrary to such an hypothesis .
I am unable to suggest any reason why the trypanosomes should increase in length before division .
We are at present without any clear knowledge of the internal stimuli and general factors producing division , although Hertwig 's work upon the nature of the physiological tension existing between the nucleus and cytoplasm of certain organisms .would possibly find an application in the present instance ; but it is highly doubtful if that would afford any explanation of the alteration in the actual body form .
We know nothing as to wThat intensely complex factors really determine the body form of such an organism as a trypanosome .
An intensive study of the physical and chemical condition of the blood at the different periods might reveal some external stimulus inducing the division of the parasites , and this might or might not afford the explanation of this particular change in shape .
To maintain in the face of the facts brought to light by the study of the endogenous cycle that the long forms are males and the short forms females is obviously unreasonable .
It would lead to such an absurd statement as that the males were responsible for the endogenous multiplication , the real fallacy being that we have at present no basis upon which to distribute the sex labels .
, The point now arises as to whether there is any observable difference which might be attributed to sex among what I have termed the " adult types .
" There is a certain variation in length and breadth among these forms , but it is not marked , and there is no evidence so far as I have seen for attributing these trifling differences to sex .
This leaves , of course , the question of actual conjugation quite unprejudiced for two very important reasons:\#151 ; 2 p 2 Miss M. Robertson .
Polymorphism of [ July 5 , ( 1 ) Flagellates both may and do conjugate without any external visible difference in the gametes .
( 2 ) If differentiation of gametes does take place it may not occur until the forms are ingested by the transmitting host .
The next section , which deals with the infectivity to fly of the blood of these different phases of the endogenous cycle , affords further evidence in regard to the question of sex .
It may be pointed out in passing that a clear view of the endogenous cycle reveals a wide range of difference in the physiological state of the trypanosomes at different times , and it is clear that this is worthy of consideration from the therapeutical aspect of the trypanosome problem .
The introduction of a drug would probably produce somewhat different effects , according to the moment of the cycle chosen for its application .
V. The Relation of the Endogenous Cycle to the Production of the Infected .
The chief point brought forward by this aspect of the question may briefly be stated as follows :\#151 ; Is there any definite condition either of the individual parasite or of the infection as a whole requisite for the production of infected glossina ?
In a previous paper it has been recorded , from experiments treated in a different manner , * that negative periods in relation to fly occurred , although trypanosomes might be present in the blood at the time of feeding .
Moreover , these experiments pointed towards the trypanosomes rather than the fly as being responsible for the negative result .
The present work has confirmed this general observation .
Failure to infect fly must depend on some one or other of the following factors:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Failure of the flies to feed ; this may be called an adventitious negative , and can be obviated by keeping the flies for at least 24 hours after they have emerged , and by the exercise of patience and observation at the time of feeding .
( 2 ) Absence of trypanosomes from the blood imbibed by the flies in the experiment .
# ( 3 ) Absence of sufficient numbers of a given type ( or types ) of trypanosome capable of surviving in the fly .
( 4 ) Presence of the requisite type , but in a physiological state unsuitable for survival in the fly .
( 5 ) The capacity on the part of all the flies in the experiment of digesting all the trypanosomes imbibed .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 85 , p. 241 , et seq. 1912 .
] T. gambiense and its Relation to G. palpalis .
537 It must here be mentioned that all the fly results are obtained in spite ot a certain general tendency on the part of the flies to digest their parasites .
All the experiments go to show that this negative factor may be taken as being very fairly constant .
Any transmitting host whose digestion is rapid tends to show a relatively low percentage of carriers\#151 ; thus mosquitoes , fleas , and tsetse flies , quite apart from the widely divergent nature of the parasites involved , all produce relatively few carriers .
Leeches and ticks , for instance , whose digestion is very slow in comparison , give , on the other hand , practically 90 to 100 per cent , of carriers .
It is advisable to take the same part of the cycle as that selected in the last section for the starting point , namely , immediately after a drop in numbers .
Such a period which shows very few trypanosomes and all of the shorter type is an effective period and generally produces about the average number of plus flies .
Now this is a result of considerable importance .
There is at this time a population of trypanosomes which have just suffered a process of elimination , they have just passed through some set of conditions that has proved fatal to the vast majority .
There are two things to consider : ( 1 ) the type of trypanosome which has survived , and ( 2 ) its condition .
The type of trypanosome is very clearly the shorter individuals ( see Tables 5 , 17 , 18 ) , and they must , moreover , be those capable of resisting the particular adverse circumstances to which the majority have * succumbed .
There is therefore at these periods a given type of resistant trypanosome which is , as shown by experiment , capable of infecting flies .
It can therefore be concluded that not only are the short types the resistant individuals but also that this type by itself is capable of producing infection in flies .
The production of resistant strains by the use of drugs and sera has no doubt some relation to these probably temporary states of resistance occurring naturally in the untreated host .
And it is not without significance to an understanding of the general biology of trypanosomes that these resistant individuals are also just those capable of carrying on the cycle in the transmitting host .
This has a bearing too on the interesting discovery of the Commission of 1908 , that trypanosomes persisting in antelope are rare in the blood but afford a relatively high percentage of infected flies .
The low numbers and the absence of pathological symptoms on the part of the vertebrate imply that the conditions in the latter exercise a high degree of control over the parasite , and , correlated with this , the trypanosomes must in all probability be in a much more active state of resistance to their environment while sojourning in such a host .
That this should also be the condition of affairs producing a large number of infected flies is of obvious 538 Miss M. Robertson .
Polymorphism of [ July 5 , importance and the connection with one another of the various instances just qited hardly needs to be further emphasised .
It has now been shown that the short forms are definitely capable of surviving in the transmitting host , but that in itself does not exclude the intermediate and long forms from a similar development .
This apparently does not occur .
The days of the depressed period continue to be positive for fly until just before the rise , that is until the appearance of the intermediate forms in numbers sufficiently large to cause a serious diminution in the short forms .
This period before the rise is one in which the percentage of plus flies produced sinks so low that none are found in the experiments\#151 ; the number of flies ranges from about 45 to 100 in each experiment .
In some cases this is probably an absolute negative , more often it will be only a relative negative , and if several hundred flies were fed probably an infected individual would be obtained .
The positive and negative periods in regard to the infectivity to fly shade insensibly into one another , thus there is a moment when the drawing out in length of the trypanosomes has begun which is still positive although the negative period supervenes in a short time .
When divisions are actually taking place the blood is infective to fly just in proportion to the number of short forms present .
A study of the tables and the analysis of the experiments given later on make this point clear .
Such a multiplicative period may have a negative phase as soon as the proportion of intermediate and long forms preponderates unduly .
At the height the infectivity has a tendency to diminish , although the requisite form is present in large numbers .
This is very marked in a swarming infection showing very numerous parasites , here the swarming period is often negative\#151 ; it has been a common experience to feed cages even for two consecutive days on a monkey in this state without producing a single infected fly .
The reason is pretty clearly that the trypanosomes are in an exhausted state physiologically , and force is added to this when it is noted that the actual period of a drop is negative .
This last fact is also an argument in favour of the surviving trypanosomes found in the depressed period having developed their resistance during the unfavourable time .
That is to say these surviving trypanosomes found immediately after a drop are not , as it were , a separate type of trypanosomes of a resistant character , but are a certain number of the ordinary adult type which have been capable of adapting themselves to the unfavourable conditions at the time of their occurrence .
Were this not the case , both the swarming period and the period of the drop would be as infective to fly as the depressed period .
1912 .
] T. gambiense and its Relation to G. palpalis .
539 The above observations upon the production of the resistant trypanosomes are only what one would expect upon the assumption that the Protozoa are capable of evincing reactions corresponding in some sort to the phenomena of immunity in the Metazoa .
The very first day on which trypanosomes are to be found in the blood of a newly infected monkey falls into exactly the same category as any other active period of multiplication , and is positive or negative to fly according to whether the adult type is present in sufficient numbers or not .
While in the actual experiments here described the negative periods do not seem to be of very long duration , nevertheless in feeding many cages on a population of monkeys at random these negative states have a profound influence on the results .
Thus , in a previous group of experiments , out of 62 cages fed only 29 showed infected flies .
All the above results are , it is clear , entirely opposed to a sex interpretation of the dimorphism .
If the long forms were males and essential to the development in the fly then the depressed periods would not be infective .
The question of sex does not seem to me to require further discussion in relation to the endogenous cycle .
VI .
General Summary .
1 .
T. gambiense is a polymorphic species with a continuous range of variation .
2 .
The shorter forms of 14\#151 ; 20 fx in length constitute the normal adult blood type .
3 .
The intermediate individuals measuring 20\#151 ; 24 / x in length are growth forms and lead to the long forms of 23\#151 ; 33 / a , which are those about to divide .
The polymorphism of the trypanosome is thus due to growth and division phenomena and does not correspond to a sex differentiation .
4 .
The shorter forms are those destined to carry on the cycle in the transmitting host .
5 .
There are definite periods when the blood is not infective to fly although trypanosomes are present .
Such periods are just before an outburst of multiplication ; ( b)during the destruction of trypanosomes preceding a depressed period ; ( c ) the summit of an exalted period involving very numerous trypanosomes\#151 ; at such a time the parasites very frequently show signs of exhaustion ; ( c ?
) certain periods of rapid multiplication when both the absolute and relative numbers of the shorter forms are low .

