A paper was read , entitled , " Remarks on the Theory of the Di ?
spersion of Light , as connected with Polarization .
" By the Rev. Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. , Savilian Professor of Geometry in the Uni ?
versity of Oxford .
The present paper is a sequel to those already presented by the author to the Royal Society , in which he had instituted a compari ?
son of the observations of the refractive indices for the standard rays of light in various media , with the results calculated from theoretical formula ?
, deduced from the most improved views of the undulatory hypothesis ; the cases discussed including the greatest range of data as yet furnished by experiment .
The comparison exhibited an accordance sufficient to warrant the conclusion that the theory affords a very satisfactory approximation , at least , to the expression and explanation of the actual law of nature .
In order , however , to remove any possible discrepancy which may still exist , or hereafter be found to obtain , the author considers that further examination is requisite of the principles on which any extension or modification of the theory might be pursued ; and such is the object of the investigation undertaken in the present paper .
The phenomena of interference , on which the undulatory theory was originally based by Dr. Young , obliged us to adopt some idea of an alternating motion , as well as a motion of translation , in our conception of light ; and this , with all the accessions it has received , especially from the investigation of Fresnel , has , at the present day , been connected by the labours of M. Cauchy and others , with general dynamical principles , which regulate the propagation of vibratory motions through an elastic medium .
From such dynamical principles there have been deduced certain differential equations of motion , the integration of which gives the well-known expression for a wave , involving the relation between the velocity and the wavelength which explains the dispersion .
The direct and complete in ?
tegration of these forms , effected by M. Cauchy , and simplified by Mr. Tovey and M. Kelland , involves certain conditions ; namely , the evanescence of certain terms , the interpretation of which implies peculiar views of the constitution of the ether .
Mr. Tovey shows that without these conditions , a certain form of the wave-function is a particular solution of the equations , * and this form is precisely that expressing elliptically polarized light .
If the absence of the condition in question be essential to the case of elliptically and circularly polarized light , it follows that all the preceding investiga ?
tions , which depend on the fulfilment of those conditions , are applicable only to unpolarized and plane-polarized light , and consequently the general integration is limited in a most material part of its application ; a defect which is only remedied by the supplementary investigation of Mr. Tovey , in which , for this case , a particular solution is assigned .
It seemed , then , necessary to show explicitly that the non-fulfilment of the conditions , that is , the non-evanescence of the terms in question , is essential for elliptically polarized light , as their evanescence is for common light , and thus to exhibit distinctly the relation between the cases of elliptically polarized , of plane-polarized , and unpolarized light ; and , again , to remove , if possible , the obscurity and discrepancy of opinion in which the phy ?
sical interpretation of those conditions , with regard to the supposed constitution of the ethereal medium , appeared to be involved .
The author then enters upon the analytical investigation of the subject , and in conclusion remarks that when light is elliptically or circularly polarized , that is , when any one of the two component vibrations is retarded behind the other , then , in the differential equa ?
tions of motion , the opposite terms do not destroy each other in the summation , which they can only do in general by supposing a great number taken into account ; that is , the number of terms is limited , or the sphere of the influence of the force by which the vibrations are propagated is small .
When light is plane-polarized , or unpolarized , that is , when there is no retardation , or the phases of the component vibrations are simultaneous , then the opposite sums de ?
stroy each other ; that is , the number of terms involved is greater , or the sphere of the influence of the force greater .
Since both kinds of light can be propagated indifferently through ordinary media , it follows that the sphere of influence of the force , or number of mole ?
cules taken into account , does not here depend on the arrangement of the molecules of ether in the medium , but on the retardation of one of the vibrations behind the other , or the absence of it , originally impressed on the ray in the respective cases .

