2 .
" On the Rolling Motion of a Cylinder .
" By the Rev. H. Moseley , M.A. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received March 6 , 1851 .
The time occupied by a heterogeneous cylinder in oscillating upon a horizontal plane through a small arc has been investigated by Euler ; and he has determined the pressure of the cylinder upon the plane when oscillating through any arc , applying the formula he has arrived at to find the pressure upon the plane at the highest and lowest points of oscillation .
It is the object of the present paper to endeavour to extend this investigation to the continuous rolling of the cylinder , under which more general form its oscillation is obviously included as a particular case .
In the first part of the paper , the time of rolling through any angle , and therefore of completing any given number of revolutions , is investigated ; and in the second , the conditions of the pressure upon the plane at any period of a revolution .
The complete determination of the time of rolling involves the integration of a function of the form / ( cos O")2 d J\3-cos 0/ which is shown to be reducible to an elliptic function of the third order , capable of being expressed ( by a theorem of Legendre ) in terms of elliptic ftunctions of the first and second orders , and there.fore of having its numerical value calculated from the tables of Legendre .
The theoremi resulting from this reduction , when applied to the particular case of the oscillation of the cylinder , gives an expression for the time of oscillation , through any arc , of a pendulum having a cylindrical axis .
If the diameter of this axis be assumed infinitely small , the case becomes that of a pendulum oscillating on knife-edges ; and the time of oscillation is expressed by the simple formula t-2 , where F(c represents that complete elliptic function of the first order whose modulus c is the sine of half the angle of oscillation .
From this formula the times of oscillation through every two degrees of a complete revolution have been calculated in respect to a pendulum which beats seconds when oscillating through small arcs , and are given in the form of a table .
In the second part of the paper , general expressions are arrived at for the vertical and horizontal pressure of the cylinder upon the plane on which it rolls , at any period of a revolution ; and these are applied to determine the conditions under which it will juap , or slip upon the plane .
A jump will take place when the expression for the vertical pressure assumes a negative value ; and whether such a jump will or will not take place in any revolution is determined by ascertaining whether the minimum value of the pressure in respect to that revolution be negative or not .
The cylinder will slip if its friction on the plane fall short of the horizontal resistance X , determined as the necessary condition of its rolling .
As the friction is measured by the product of the coefficient of friction by the vertical pressure V , it follows , that slipping will take place if Xy exceed the coefficient of friction ; and whether it will or will not take place in any revolution is determined by ascertaining whether the maxinmum value of y in that revolution be or be not greater than the coefficient of friction .
All these circumstances are investigated on the supposition that the centre of gravity of the cylinder is situated at any given distance from its axis , and that it is projected in any position with a given angular velocity , which angular velocity must be assumed =0 , to get the case of an oscillatory cylinder .
The investigation determines in this case the circumstances under which a pendulum oscillating by a cylindrical axis , or by knife-edges on horizontal planes , will jump or slip upon its bearings unless other .
wise retained .
If a finite value be assumed for the angular velocity sufficient to cause complete revolutions to be made , and if the diameter of the axis be assumed =0 , the case will be arrived at of the pressure upon its bearings of a falsely-balanced wheel , or any unsymmetrical body revolving about a fixed horizontal axis , friction being neglected .
If the angular velocity of projection be supposed to be that obtained by the cylinder when its centre of gravity is at its highest point , the general formula for the vertical pressure assumes a simple form , under which it is readily applicable to the case of the falselybalanced carriage wheel , a case which assumes a practical importance , from the fact that the driving wheels of locomotive engines are all , by reason of their cranked axles , falsely balanced unless counterweights be applied .
The danger which might arise from this fact does not appear to have been at one time duly estimated ; and when smaller engines were used than at present , and the axles were differently cranked , the author thinks there is reason to believe that the accidents which not unfrequently occurred with these engines-(some o ' them attended by fatal results ) were due to this cause .
The fact seems first to have been brought prominently under the notice of engineers by the experiments of Mr. George Heaton of Birmingham , who caused a falsely-balanced wheel to roll round the periphery of a circular table , by means of an axis fixed to a pivot in its centre , and thereby exhibited the tendency to jump created by even a small displacement of the centre of gravity .
The analytical investigation in this paper shows how carefully the crank should be counterbalanced to provide the requisite security against the jumping of the wheel .
It appears , that , assuming the weight of an engine to be from 20 to 25 tons , and of a pair of sixfeet driving wheels from 2to 3 tons , a displacement of the centre of gravity of the wheel of about 3 inches from its centre would be sufficient to cause it to jump at any instant when it attained a speed of sixty miles an hour .
A table is given in the paper of the displacements of the centre of gravity necessary to produce jumps at different speeds .
These vary inversely as the squares of the speeds .
Before a jump can take place , there must be a slip of the wheel , or at least the wheel must cease to bite upon the rail ; and to this cause , as well as to the reciprocating action of the two pistons , the author considers may be due some portion of that fish-tail motion which is familiar to railway travellers .
The calculations show the danger to be increased as the diameter of the driving wheel is diminished , and they are unfavourable to the use of light engines .

