44.2 On NitrogenizedMatter in the Atmosphere .
[ June 20 , IX .
" On the Physical Nature of the Coagulation of the Blood/ ' Alfred Hutchison Smee , F.C.S. , P.S.S. Communicated by Alfred Smee , P.R.S. Received May 27 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) After passing in review the principal opinions hitherto entertained on the real nature of the coagulation of the blood , the author states that he is led to refer the solidification of fibrin in the process of coagulation to the same class of phenomena as the pectization of colloid liquids , as aheady hinted by the late Professor Graham and others .
He points out at considerable length the chief circumstances which influence the change in colloidal fluids , and proceeds to compare the properties of colloid silica with an organic body of the nature of fibrin .
X. " On the Detection of Organic and other Nitrogenized Matter existing in the Atmosphere .
" By Alfred Hutchison Smee , F.C.S. , P.S.S. Communicated by Alfred Smee , P.R.S. Received June 1 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication the author describes a method which he has devised , and which he names " distillation by cold , " by which lie believes the detection and determination of ammonia and other organic impurities existing in the atmosphere will be greatly facilitated .
A glass funnel ( usually of 8 or 9 inches ) is drawn to a point and closed .
It is supported in an ordinary stand , and filled with ice .
Condensation of the watery vapour of the atmosphere then takes place ; the dew collects into drops , which trickle down the outside of the funnel , and at last fall from the point , under which a small receiver is placed to catch them .
The total quantity of liquid collected in a given time is measured , and the quantity of ammonia determined by Nessler 's test .
_ By the method of distillation by cold , the author found it possible to distil many substances which are decomposed at a high temperature .
Thus many delicate odours of flowers were distilled by placing the flowers under a bell-glass sufficiently large to cover the funnel containing t \#174 ; ice .
The odours were found to be more rapidly and completely abstrac e by placing a dish with a little ether under the bell-glass at the time o distillation .
i , .
din The paper was accompanied by Tables giving the results obtains ^ 107 experiments , together with the atmospheric conditions prevailing ^ the time .
The experiments were made in a garden , in a bed-room , ^ hospital wards , in the open country , \amp ; c. A few of the numbers obtain are here given by way of example:\#151 ;

