348 Mr. E. Schunck .
e Astronomicas .
Vol. V. 8vo .
The University .
Journals ( continued ) .
Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas Coimbra 1884 .
___ Mittheilungen aus der Zoologischen Station zu Neapel .
Band Yl .
Heft 2 .
8vo .
Berlin 1885 .
The Station Ungarische Revue .
Hefte 8-10 .
8vo .
Budapest 1885 .
Hungarian Academy .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received April 30 , 1885 .
Read May 7 1885 .
' Action of Acids on Chlorophyll .
Every one who has worked with chlorophyll must he familiar with the peculiar effect produced on the addition of acids to its solutions .
If an alcoholic solution be taken , the colour of the solution changes when an acid is added from bright green to yellowish-green , and the spectrum at the same time undergoes alteration .
After standing some time the solution gives a dark green deposit , which , after separation from the greenish-yellow liquid , shows when dissolved in boiling alcohol or ether , the spectrum of so-called " acid chlorophyll .
" This change is attributed by some to a simple modification of the chlorophyll ; others consider it due to the formation of products of decomposition .
The latter view is , I have no doubt , the correct one .
In order to obtain the products due to the action of acids on chlorophyll , I find it best to use hydrochloric acid .
Eresh green leaves of any kind are extracted , without undergoing any preliminary treatment , with boiling spirits of wine .
The extract , which should be of an intense green , is poured off from the exhausted leaves , and allowed to stand for a day or two .
During this time , a light green somewhat slimy deposit is formed , consisting chiefly of wax and fatty matters coloured by chlorophyll .
On examining this deposit closely , it will almost invariably be found to contain , interspersed in the mass , small , red , glistening crystals .
These crystals consist of a body first observed by Hartsen , * and called by him , " chrysophyll , " a name which it would be well to retain.f The deposit having been separated by filtration , a current of hydrochloric acid gas is passed into the dark green filtrate .
This produces at once a dark green almost black voluminous precipitate , * " Never Untersuchungen fiber das Chlorophyll , " " Chem. Centralblatt , " 1875 , S. 613 .
" f " The erythrophyll of Bougarel and the crystallised xanthophyll of other chemists are doubtless identical with chrysophyll .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
349 which increases in quantity on standing .
After the precipitate has settled , the liquid appears greenish-yellow ; it shows the spectrum of acid chlorophyll , due to the presence of colouring matters from the precipitate , these being not entirely insoluble in alcohol , hut it also contains yellow colouring matters which darken the blue end of the spectrum , as well as other bodies extracted from the leaves which have no connexion with chlorophyll .
, The dark green precipitate is now filtered off and washed with spirits until the filtrate appears nearly colourless .
It contains besi es impurities , which are chiefly of a fatty nature two distinct colounng matters identical with the phyllocyamn and phylloxanthin of y. These names I see no reason to change .
They have been retame y Tschirch , * one of the latest writers on the subject The method adopt for separating the two substances is essentially the same as that of Fremy .
I have tried other methods , but they have led to result .
The use of alkaline solvents is to be avoided , since both colouring matters are changed by the action of alkalis^ Thera product of the action of the acid is first treated with ether , m w nearly the whole dissolves .
The insoluble matter having been filtered off , the filtrate is mixed with about its own volume of ^ming hydrochloric acid .
The mixture , after being well shaken , is left to stand , when it separates into two layers , an upper yellow is -gieen one , containing phylloxanthin and a great part of the fatty matters , and a lower dark blue one , containing phyllocyanin .
This is t e experiment of Fremy , which is so often referred to m memoirs on chlorophyll , as having led him to the conclusion that chlorophyll wa_ a compound or mixture of a blue and a yellow colouring matter propose first to give an account of phyllocyamn , the colouring matter of the blue layer . .
, The two liquids obtained in the manner just described are separated in the usual way , and the lower blue one is agitated wi fresh ether , the process being repeated until the ether appears near y colourless , and the phylloxanthin has been removed .
After a s 10 exposure , to allow the ether contained in it to evaporate , it is mix with water , which produces a dark blue precipitate .
This is eiec off , washed to remove hydrochloric acid , then dissolved m 01 in\#187 ; glacial acetic acid .
This solution on cooling gives a crystalline deposit of phyllocyanin , which is filtered off and recrystallise loin acetic acid .
If , on decomposing a little of it with boiling dilute nitric acid , nothing is left undissolved , the product may be considered pure , but if yellow oily drops appear on the surface of the boiling aci \#174 ; process of crystallisation from acetic acid must be lepea e product is finally filtered off , washed with acetic acid , and nee .
By the process just described , I have obtained phyllocyanin 10 * " TJntersuehungen iiber das Chlorophyll , Berlin , 1884 .
Mr. E. Schunck .
grass , from ivy leaves , from the leaves of the common thorn , and from the fronds of Pteris aquilina .
JSTo difference could be ' discerned between the different specimens obtained .
Properties of Phyllocyanin .
When dry , phyllocyanin has the appearance of a dark blue mass , which may easily be reduced to a fine powder .
It resembles indigo* but when rubbed with a hard body it remains blue , and does not exhibit the coppery lustre which characterises indigo .
Under a lens , small white glistening points are seen dotting the mass , produced by reflexion from crystalline surfaces .
Examined under the microscope , it is found to consist almost entirely of elongated rhomboidal , or irregularly six-sided crystalline plates , which are generally opaque , but when very thin are translucent and then appear olive-coloured by transmitted light .
Phyllocyanin is insoluble in water .
It dissolves in boiling alcohol , but a great part of the substance dissolved separates out on the solution cooling , as a voluminous mass , consisting of microscopic crystals .
It is more soluble in ether , glacial acetic acid , benzol , and carbon disulphide than in alcohol , but the best solvent is chloroform , which takes up large quantities of phyllocyanin even in the cold .
A minute quantity of the substance imparts an intense colour to any of these solvents , especially chloroform .
It is only on diluting largely that these solutions lose their opacity .
They then appear of a dull green or olive colour , and show the well-known and often described spectrum of " acid chlorophyll , " consisting of five bands of various intensity .
The solutions fluoresce , but not so strongly as solutions of chlorophyll .
When the ethereal solution is mixed with concentrated hydrochloric acid , the whole of the phyllocyanin is taken up by the acid , yielding a dark greenish-blue solution , which sinks to the bottom .
Should phylloxanthin be present , it will be found in the upper ethereal layer , which then shows a yellowish-green tint , and an absorption spectrum differing from that of phyllocyanin .
The lower greenish-blue solution shows when sufficiently dilute five absorption bands , the spectrum , in fact , of the hydrochloric acid compound of phyllocyanin , which differs widely from that of phyllocyanin itself .
Phyllocyanin is almost insoluble in boiling petroleum ether , and nearly insoluble in ligroin .
It dissolves easily in warm aniline .
Phyllocyanin contains nitrogen , but is free from sulphur .
Action of Seat.\#151 ; When heated on platinum , phyllocyanin gives off an acid smell , then swells up considerably , evolving gas which burns with a smoky flame , and leaves a voluminous charcoal , which burns away slowly , a hardly visible trace of ash being left .
When heated slowly between two watch-glasses , it swells up slightly , and Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
351 " becomes charred .
On the lower glass there is left a black mass which imparts no colour to boiling chloroform , and seems to be simply charcoal .
On the upper glass , there is found a small quantity of brownish sublimate , which , under the microscope , is seen to consist partly of crystalline needles , partly of regular rhombic crystals which are honey-yellow by transmitted light .
When slowly heated in an air bath to 160 ' , phyllocyanm remains apparently unchanged .
It is still completely soluble in chloroform , the solution showing the usual absorption bands .
On heating , however to 180 ' , complete decomposition takes place , but without any change of volume in the substance .
The charred mass now imparts to boiling chloroform only a very faint green tinge , and when heated in a tube , gives off no empyreumatic products , only a slight odour 0fS7^tS.-On adding a little nitric acid to a boiling saturated solution of pliyllocyanin in glacial acetic acid , the solution immediately becomes yellow , but without evolution of nitrous fumes .
It deposits nothing on cooling and standing.^ On the addition of water it gives a dirty green flocculent precipitate , the filtrate from which is still yellow , but shows no absorption bands .
The precipitate dissolves easily in alcohol , giving a yellow solution , which shows a spectrum differing from that of phyllocyanm .
Pbyllocyanin itself , treated with boiling dilute nitric acid is rapidly decomposed and dissolved with evolution of nitrous fumes .
The solution evaporated in the water-bath leaves a residue which , treated with water , dissolves in part .
The filtrate has a bitter taste , and leaves , on evaporation , a soft yellow residue , m which on standing , some colourless crystalline needles are formed .
The portion insoluble in water dissolves easily in alcohol , giving a yellow solution which , on evaporation , leaves a residue having a crystalline appearance , but not really crystalline when examined under the microscope .
# . .
i A hot concentrated solution of phyllocyanin in glacial acetic aci becomes , on the addition of a little chromic acid , yellowish-green , but deposits nothing on cooling .
The solution gives with water a dull green precipitate , the filtrate from which is yellow , and shows no absorption bands , while the precipitate itself , treated with ether , gives a solution which differs somewhat as regards colour and absorption bands from a solution of phyllocyanin .
Phyllocyauin treated with a watery solution of chromic acid , o which a little sulphuric acid has been added , is decomposed wit much effervescence , giving a green solution , which , after evaporation , leaves a residue yielding to solvents only amorphous products .
Insolation.\#151 ; I will introduce here what I have to say regarding the effect of insolation on phyllocyanin , because there can be no dou \gt ; YOL .
XXXIX .
Mr. E. Schunck .
that the effects observed are due to oxidation .
Anyone who has observed the ease and rapidity with which a solution of chlorophyll is bleached on exposure to light and air would be struck with the extraordinary permanence exhibited by phyllocyanin under the same circumstances .
A moderately strong solution of phyllocyanin when exposed to sunlight retains its colour for a long time , the last trace disappearing only after many weeks ' exposure .
In order to observe the changes which take place , it is best to take a chloroformic solution of phyllocyanin and expose it to sunlight in a loosely-stoppered bottle , the stopper being occasionally removed , and the contents shaken .
The green colour of the solution gradually becomes fainter , the absorption bands of phyllocyanin remaining visible .
After some time the colour changes to yellow , but the solution still shows a strong band in the red , corresponding to band I of phyllocyanin .
At length this band also disappears , and there is now nothing to be seen but the total obscuration at the blue end of the spectrum , which most yellow solutions show .
In one experiment the chloroformic solution was exposed to alternate bright sunlight and diffused daylight from the middle of April to the middle of June , when it was filtered from a flocculent yellow deposit which had formed .
A further exposure to the middle of August was required to cause the entire disappearance of the band in the red .
Several products are formed during this process of insolation .
The first consists of a flocculent yellow deposit , which gradually separates from the chloroformic solution .
This deposit , after filtering off and washing with chloroform , is found to be easily soluble in alcohol and caustic alkali , but insoluble in boiling water , in which it simply melts ; insoluble also in ether , ligroin , and carbon disulphide .
The alcoholic solution is yellow , shows no absorption bands , and leaves , on spontaneous evaporation , a residue which has a somewhat crystalline appearance , but is found to be amorphous when examined under the microscope .
The chloroformic filtrate leaves , on evaporation , a residue , which , on treatment with hot water , dissolves only in part .
The part left undissolved by water resembles the product deposited from the chloroformic solution .
It melts in boiling water ; it is easily soluble in alcohol , the solution being yellow and leaving , on evaporation , a pale yellow brittle amorphous residue ; it is insoluble in ether and carbon disulphide .
The watery filtrate from this secoud product , after treatment with animal charcoal , which deprives it of most of its colour , leaves , on evaporation over sulphuric acid , a pale yellow transparent gum-like residue , in which nothing crystalline can be detected , and of which the following are the most characteristic reactions :\#151 ; Heated on platinum it is decomposed , giving off acid fumes with an odour like those from heated tartaric acid , leaving much charcoal ; Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
353 its watery solution has a strong acid reaction and a sour and at the same time very bitter taste ; the solution gives no coloration with ferric chloride ; it evolves ammonia when boiled with caustic potash , and it reduces Fehling 's solution on boiling .
It appears , therefore , that by insolation , phyllocyanin yields products which resemble , if they are not identical with , those due to the action of nitric and chromic acids .
It is possible that some of these products may be contained in faded autumnal leaves after the chlorophyll has disappeared , but their indefinite character would render their identification very difficult .
Green leaves , in becoming yellow , pass through a stage in which they yield when treated with alcohol an extract which , though quite yellow and non-fluorescent , shows a strong absorption band in the red .
Of this fact I was forcibly reminded when watching the progressive changes of phyllocyanin during insolation .
Action of Chlorine.\#151 ; On passing a current of chlorine gas through a chloroformic solution of phyllocyanin , the first effect observed is a change of colour in the solution from dull green to a bright grass-green , the latter colour closely resembling that of a solution of chlorophyll .
The solution shows an absorption spectrum which coincides neither with that of chlorophyll nor with that of phyllocyanin .
On standing for a day or two the solution loses its bright green colour , and acquires a reddish hue , with a green tint at the edges where the thickness of the liquid is less .
It now shows the same number of bands as a phyllocyanin solution , but the bands are all nearer the red end .
On evaporation it leaves a greenish-brown amorphous residue .
On passing more chlorine through the chloroformic solution of phyllocyanin the green colour seen at first disappears , the solution becomes yellow , at last pale yellow , all the bands characteristic of phyllocyanin at the same time disappearing .
The liquid leaves , on evaporation , a yellow amorphous residue like resin .
This , after heating in the water-bath to drive away all traces of hydrochloric acid , is found to contain chlorine .
It does not dissolve in boiling water , but .
merely softens .
It is easily soluble in alcohol , the solution being yellow and showing much obscuration in the blue of the spectrum , but no absorption bands even when very dilute .
It dissolves only in part when treated with caustic potash lye .
Action of Bromine.\#151 ; On the addition of a little bromine to a chloroformic solution , of phyllocyanin , the solution acquires a bright grass-green colour , and now shows four absorption bands .
On adding an excess of bromine to the solution , heating and evaporating , an olive-coloured amorphous product , containing bromine , is obtained , which dissolves easily in alcohol .
The solution is brownish-red , and shows a spectrum similar to that of phyllocyanin , but having the bands all nearer the red end .
Mr. E. Schnnck .
Action of Acids.\#151 ; A mixture of 1 part of concentrated hydrochloric acid with 9 parts of absolute alcohol , dissolves phyllocyanin easily .
In daylight the solution appears dark blue , green at the edges ; in artificial light it appears purple .
It shows a spectrum differing from that of phyllocyanin , and more nearly resembling that of chlorophyll , especially as regards the fourth and fifth bands , which are extremely faint , whereas with phyllocyanin they are very intense ; the spectrum is , in fact , that of the hydrochloric acid compound of phyllocyanin .
On adding water to the solution , unchanged phyllocyanin is precipitated , but if the solution be evaporated , it leaves a residue green by transmitted , blue by reflected light , which is no longer phyllocyanin , for it dissolves in alcohol with a brownish-green colour , and the solution shows a spectrum identical with that of the product formed by the action of alkalis \#169 ; n phylloeyanm , ; and characterised by two bands in the red , and two fine , but distinct bands in the green , which will be referred to presently .
Phyllocyanin is soluble in concentrated hydrobromic acid .
It dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid , giving a grass-green solution , which shows a spectrum resembling that of the hydrochloric acid compound .
On the addition of water , unchanged phyllocyanin is precipitated , but if the solution be left to stand for some time , the phyllocyanin contained in it is changed , and the precipitate with water now consists of several products , one of which shows the same spectrum as that formed by the action of hydrochloric acid .
Phyllocyanin is not in any way affected by treatment with a boiling watery solution of ^phosphoric acid .
On the addition of phosphoric acid to a boiling alcoholic -solution of phyllocyanin , the latter acquires a purplish tint , but the spectrum remains the same , and the solution on cooling deposits unchanged phylloeyanin .
Phyllocyanin shows no tendency to combine with oxalic , tartaric , or citric acid , but these acids do affect it to a certain degree , that is , they induce decomposition at temperatures at which the substance itself remains unchanged .
Mixtures of finely powdered phyllocyanin with oxalic , tartaric , and citric acids remain unaltered when heated in the water-bath .
After being heated in an air-bath to 130 ' , the oxalic acid mixture no longer contains phyllocyanin , the latter being completely charred and decomposed , whereas the tartaric and citric acid mixtures show only slight indications of change at that temperature .
On being heated to 155 ' , and kept at that temperature for some time , the tartaric and citric acid mixtures are found to contain products which differ from phyllocyanin , without having properties such as compounds of the latter with acids might be expected to show .
Under the conditions described , therefore , phyllocyanin shows no tendency to combine with weak acids .
Action of Alkalis.\#151 ; When phyllocyanin is treated with very dilute Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
355 caustic potash or soda-lye , it dissolves entirety .
The solution has the same colour as other phyllocyanin solutions , and shows a similar spectrum , but with the bands less distinctly marked .
It gives precipitates of various shades of green , with earthy and metallic salts , such as the chlorides of barium and calcium , lead acetate , and copper acetate .
These might , perhaps , be regarded as compounds of phyllocyanin , and be called phyllocyanates .
Nevertheless it is easy to show that by mere solution in alkali , phyllocyanin undergoes a complete change .
If the alkaline solution be mixed with an excess of acetic acid , and then shaken up with ether , the precipitate with acid dissolves in the ether , the solution having the colour of a phyllocyanin solution , and showing the characteristic absorption-bands ; but if the solution be left to stand in contact with excess of acid for some time , its colour changes from olive to a brown or smoke colour , and it now shows quite a different and very elegant spectrum , characterised by two bands in the red , one of which is thin and nearer the red end than the first band of phyllocyanin , and two very fine but distinct bands in the green , the third and fourth bands of phyllocyanin having disappeared , while the fifth still remains .
Since phyllocyanin , before solution in alkali , is not changed appreciably by acetic acid , even on boiling , it is evident that by the action of alkali it is m some way metamorphosed , so as to be liable to further change when acted on by the acid .
In preparing this product of the successive action of alkali and acid , care must be taken to operate in the cold , for if hot alkaline lye be used , an entirety different product is formed .
It is deposited from a boiling alcoholic solution in microscopic crystals , which are quite opaque , even in a strong light , and resemble crystallised phyllocyanin .
In none of the various memoirs on chlorophyll that have come under my notice have I seen any spectrum figured or described at all resembling that of the solutions of this substance .
The spectrum is distinctly seen , even in exceedingly dilute solutions .
The next product of the action of alkalis on phyllocyanin is formed when hot alkaline lye is employed .
In order to obtain it , a solution of phyllocyanin in boiling alcohol is mixed with alcoholic potash or soda , and boiled .
On standing , the solution yields a semi-crystalline deposit of a fine purple colour by reflected light , consisting of a potassium or sodium compound of the product formed .
This is filtered off , washed with alcohol , and then dissolved in water .
The solution gives with acetic acid a green flocculent precipitate , which is filtered off , washed , and dissolved in boiling glacial acetic acid .
This solution on standing deposits small crystalline rosettes , which are green by transmitted light , and of a fine purple by reflected light .
The solutions of this substance have a dull purple colour , and exhibit a distinct spectrum , characterised by a broad very dark band in the green .
2 a 2 Mr. E. Schunck .
I shall return to these products on a future occasion .
Phyllocyanin does liot dissolve very readily in ammonia .
Action of Aniline.\#151 ; When a solution of phylloeyanin in aniline is slowly evaporated , a residue is left consisting partly of dark granules of phyllocyanin , partly of pale purplish-brown crystalline needles , arranged in tufts and rosettes .
The latter may be either a compound with aniline , or a product of the action of aniline on phyllocyanin at the ordinary temperature ; it is formed in minute quantities only .
A more energetic action takes place at higher temperatures .
When aniline and phyllocyanin are heated together in a sealed tube to 130 ' and kept at that temperature for some time , a complete change takes place .
The contents of the tube on being poured into alcohol dissolve in part only , a crystalline mass being left undissolved , the filtrate from which is greenish-brown , and shows the peculiar spectrum of the first product of the action of alkalis on pbyllocyanin .
The crystalline mass on the filter dissolves partly on treatment with boiling alcohol , and the filtered liquid deposits on cooling a quantity of white crystalline needles in star-shaped groups , which are soluble in ether and chloroform , but insoluble in dilute acids and alkaline lies .
The portion of the crystalline mass left undissolved by boiling alcohol dissolves in chloroform .
The solution is red , and shows a very characteristic spectrum , consisting of three fine but very distinct bands in the red , of which the central one is the strongest , one very dark band covering the yellow and part of the green , which , when the solution is so far diluted as to show only two bands in the red , splits up into two nearly equal bands , and lastly , one dark band at the edge of the green and blue .
The chloroformic solution leaves , on evaporation , a semi-crystalline residue , having a purplish hue .
It might be supposed that on treatment with ammonia , phyllocyanin would yield products similar to those formed by the action of aniline , but this is not the case .
When phyllocyanin is heated with strong liquor ammonias in a sealed tube to 140 ' , bodies are formed which are similar to if not identical with those due to the action of fixed alkalis .
Compounds of Phyllocyanin.\#151 ; From what has been stated above , it may be inferred that phyllocyanin plays the part of a weak base , that is , it combines with strong acids , the compounds however being unstable , and easily decomposed even by water .
Like other weak bases , it may also act as an acid , though for reasons before mentioned , it may be doubted whether , in combining with bases , it does so without undergoing change .
Notwithstanding its nearly neutral character , however , phyllocyanin is capable of yielding compounds of great comparative stability , into which metals and acids , especially organic acids , enter as constituents .
When phyllocyanin is dissolved in boiling glacial acetic acid , it Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
357 crystallises out unchanged on the solution cooling .
The same happens when freshly precipitated cupric oxide or zinc oxide is added to a boiling alcoholic solution of phyllocyanin ; the solution deposits phyllocyanin , and there are no indications of any combination taking place between the phyllocyanin and the metallic oxide .
A very different effect is observed when either of the two oxides is employed along with acetic acid .
When cupric oxide is added to a solution of phyllocyanin in boiling acetic acid , the solution acquires at once a deep greenish-blue colour , and it no longer contains uncombined phyllocyanin , for its spectrum is different , and on standing it deposits lustrous crystals , which doubtless consist of a compound of which phyllocyanin , acetic acid , and copper are essential constituents .
If zinc oxide be employed , a similar effect is observed ; the liquid acquires an intense green colour , and now contains the corresponding acetate of phyllocyanin and zinc .
The same phenomenon is seen when ferrous oxide , manganese oxide , or silver oxide , or one of the corresponding acetates is taken , solutions of various shades of green being obtained , which contain phyllocyanin compounds , but no similar compounds are formed when potassium , sodium , barium , calcium , magnesium , or lead acetates are employed , for on adding the acetate of any of the last-named metals to an acetic acid solution of phyllocyanin , the colour of the latter remains unchanged , and phyllocyanin is deposited , just as if no metallic acetate were present .
Acetic acid is , however , not the only acid which yields the reaction .
If palmitic , stearic , oleic , tartaric , citric , malic , or phosphoric acid be employed , it takes place just as with acetic acid , but , in some cases , time is required for its completion .
The process results , there can be little doubt , in the formation of compounds analogous to those with acetic acid .
To obtain these compounds , it is only necessary to add a little of the freshly precipitated metallic oxide , and an excess of one of the acids named , to a solution of phyllocyanin in boiling alcohol , keeping the solution boiling for several hours , then filtering and adding water , in which the compounds are insoluble .
The precipitated compounds , which are generally of a bright green , are filtered off and washed before treatment with reagents .
The following is an enumeration of the compounds obtained in the way just described :\#151 ; Phyllocyanin cupric acetate .
, , , , palmitate .
" , , stearate .
" " oleate .
, , " tartrate .
, , , , citrate .
" " phosphate .
Mr. E. Schunck .
Phyllocyanin argentic acetate .
, , zinc acetate .
" , , palmitate .
, , , , stearate .
, , , , oleate .
" " citrate .
, , ferrous acetate .
, , , , palmitate .
, , , , oleate .
, , " citrate .
" " malate .
, , , , phosphate .
" manganese acetate .
It would , of course , be easy to extend this list by taking a greater variety of acids and metallic oxides .
Nevertheless , strange to say , several compounds , the existence of which might have been anticipated , are not formed under the same conditions as those above enumerated .
Phyllocyanin does not enter into combination when its alcoholic solution is boiled with cupric oxide and oxalic acid , zinc oxide and oxalic acid , zinc oxide and tartaric acid , ferrous oxide and tartaric acid .
I could also see no indication of double compounds of phyllocyanin hydrochloride with the chlorides of platinum , mercury , or copper being formed , but on the other hand , a double sulphate of phyllocyanin and copper seems to exist .
Attempts to form compounds by heating mixtures of phyllocyanin with glycerin and various fatty acids , at a temperature of 130 ' , led to negative results .
The various compounds above enumerated have a number of properties in common , though the several classes differ , inter se , in some important particulars .
They all dissolve more or less easily in alcohol , ether , chloroform , benzol and carbon disulphide , in fact in all the solvents which take up phyllocyanin and chlorophyll , but they are all insoluble in water , with the exception of the phyllocyanin manganese acetate , which dissolves readily therein .
The solutions have a green colour , varying from grass-green , like that of chlorophyll solutions , to a fine bluish-green or blue , and they show peculiar spectra .
The alcoholic solutions remain quite unchanged when sulphuretted hydrogen is passed through them , no precipitate is formed , and the solutions , on evaporation , leave the various compounds with their original properties unchanged .
It is only on incineration that the presence of the metallic constituents is detected , the copper compounds leaving , after being burnt , cupric oxide ; the zinc compounds , zinc oxide , the iron compounds , ferric oxide .
Lastly , they are all soluble in dilute alkaline lies , and are again precipitated unchanged on the addition of acetic Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
359 acid .
These reactions make it somewhat doubtful whether these compounds are to be considered as double salts in the ordinary acceptance , and whether the metallic constituents may not rather be contained in them somewhat in the same way as the iron in hsematin .
I have still a few remarks to make on the distinctive properties characterising the three principal groups of these compounds , the cupric , zinc , and ferrous groups .
Of these , the cupric compounds are the most beautiful , and , at the same time , the most stable .
Their solutions show a brilliant colour , inclining more to blue than green , and spectra with four absorption bands , the position of which varies somewhat according to the acid employed .
They are not decomposed by treatment with strong acids .
If an alcoholic solution of any one of them be mixed with a large quantity of hydrochloric acid and boiled , the colour is not changed , and on adding water , and then shaking ujp with ether , the ethereal liquid which rises to the surface shows the same colour and the same spectrum as the original alcoholic solution .
The phyllocyanin cupric acetate is the most beautiful of the series .
It is best prepared by adding cupric acetate to a solution of phyllocyanin in boiling acetic acid .
The crystalline mass which separates out on standing is filtered off , treated with dilute hydrochloric acid to remove any excess of cupric acetate that may be present , and then redissolved in glacial acetic acid boiling .
The solution on cooling deposits the compound in crystalline scales , which are elongated , pointed at the ends , of a pale greenish-blue by transmitted light , and of a brilliant purple , with a semi-metallic lustre , by reflected light ; it much resembles crystallised indigo-blue .
The other cupric compounds yield only microscopic crystals .
The zincic group of compounds yield solutions of a brilliant green , showing spectra of five bands .
These compounds are distinguished from the preceding by their instability in the presence of strong acids .
If an alcoholic solution of any one of the zinc compounds be mixed with hydrochloric acid ; and boiled , its colour changes to blue .
On now adding water , the blue colour disappears , and a precipitate is formed which on shaking up with ether dissolves .
The ethereal solution has the colour and shows the absorption spectrum of phyllocyanin solutions .
The zinc compounds are therefore decomposed by hydrochloric acid , yielding phyllocyanin again as one of the products of decomposition .
The behaviour of phyllocyanin towards zinc oxide in the presence of organic acids may serve to explain a peculiar phenomenon first observed by Church* and subsequently described by Tschirch .
The former took chlorophyll that had become olive-brown on standing , and , acting on it with zinc powder in the water-oven , obtained a body * " Chemical News , " xxxviii , 168 .
Mr. E. Schunck .
yielding bright green solutions , .which he took to be regenerated chlorophyll .
Tschirch acted on Hoppe-Seyler 's chlorophyllan with zinc powder , and observed the same phenomenon , the conclusion at which he arrived being the same , viz. , that chlorophyll is reproduced from chlorophyllan by the reducing action of zinc .
I think , however , that what Tschirch obtained was , in reality , a zinc compound , and would have been formed just as well by using zinc oxide .
Chlorophyllan is probably an impure substance , containing , it may be , some fatty acid , together with phyllocyanin , so that by the action of zinc oxide on the mixture a compound similar to those above described may be formed .
I have tried the experiment with the precipitate produced by treating a chlorophyll solution with hydrochloric acid , which probably differs very little from chlorophyllan , dissolving it in boiling alcohol , adding zinc oxide and boiling for some time , when a bright green liquid was obtained , which might have been taken for a solution of chlorophyll , but evidently .contained a zinc compound of the same character as those formed directly from phyllocyanin by a similar process .
The spectrum was identical with that of the zinc compounds from phyllocyanin .
The ferrous group of compounds yield solutions of a pure green , like that of chlorophyll They are not , however , strikingly fluorescent , and when exposed to -sunlight in open vessels they retain their colour unchanged for a long time .
The group may be divided into two sub-groups : the first sub-group comprising ' compounds into which one of the fatty acids\#151 ; acetic , palmitic , or oleic acid\#151 ; enters as a constituent ; the other sub-group , such as are formed by the action of citric , malic , or phosphoric acid .
The members of the first sub-group show , in solution , the same spectrum , consisting of four ill-defined absorption bands , with much obscuration throughout .
To the other group belongs a spectrum consisting also of four bands , which are , however , differently placed and more distinct than with the first sub-group .
If a small quantity of hydrochloric acid be added to an alcoholic solution of any one of the iron compounds the solution acquires a blue tint , and the bands are now found to have shifted considerably towards the blue end .
This effect may be due to the removal of a portion of the iron , and the formation of compounds with less iron .
If a member of the second sub-group be taken , the phosphate or the malate for instance , then on the addition of hydrochloric acid a spectrum is obtained which closely resembles the ordinary chlorophyll spectrum as regards the number , position , and relative strength of the bands .
The members of the first sub-group undergo a further change by treatment with an excess of hydrochloric acid and boiling , but the resulting product is not phyllocyanin .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
361 All the members of the iron group of compounds undergo a peculiar change by the action of ether .
'When the alcoholic solution of any one of them is mixed with its own volume of ether , the green colour gradually fades and gives place to yellow .
All the bands except that in the red disappear , while another fine band further in the red makes its appearance .
At length the two bands in the red also vanish , and nothing is now seen but a considerable obscuration at the blue end , due to the presence of a yellow colouring matter in solution .
The change resembles that which is seen on exposure of a chlorophyll solution to air and sunlight ; it takes place , however , quite as readily in a closely stoppered bottle , kept in the dark , as in an open tube exposed to light .
It is effected more rapidly by ordinary methylated ether than by pure ether .
Benzol and acetone act in the same way as ether , but chloroform and carbon disulphide are without effect .
The phyllocyanin manganese acetate , which is obtained by adding manganese acetate to a solution of phyllocyanin in glacial acetic acid , differs from the compounds previously described by its solubility in water .
It also dissolves easily in alcohol , but less readily in ether and benzol .
Its solutions are green , like those of the iron compounds , and show a peculiar spectrum .
It is not changed by treatment with boiling hydrochloric acid , and its alcoholic solution remains unaltered when mixed with ether or benzol .
2 it VOL , XXXIX .

