XIII .
" Experiments and Observations on the Structure and Function of the Stomach in the Vertebrate Class .
" By WILLIAM BRINTON , M.D. , Lecturer on Physiology at St. Thomas 's Hospital .
Communicated by JOHN SIMON , Esq. Received June 12 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) This paper , itself a summary of a long series of observations , may be briefly abstracted as follows : The peculiar dimorphous structure possessed by the tubes of the cardiac and middle parts of the stomach in the Dog , exists in the whole Vertebrate class ; about sixty species of which are cited by the author from his notes .
Many of the variations of the stomach throughout the Vertebrate class are essentially oesophageal developments , having a mechanical office .
The more essential contrasts of the vertebrate stomach refer to the above dimorphous structure ; which diminishing , even in Man , to less than twice its thickness in passing from the cardia to the pylorus , is in most animals altogether deficient here , either with or without a great shortening of the columnar-celled tubes .
The dimorphous cell-growth is always the source and exponent of the pepsinous or digestive power of the stomach on protein-compounds ; which power is absent where this structure is deficient , and present ( as tested by careful comparison ) in the degree in which the mucous membrane contains the dimorphous cell-growth .
Of those alternatives respecting the gastric juice suggested by various experiments-namely ( 1 ) the secretion of pepsine by the dimorphous cell-growth , and acid by the columnar ; or ( 2 ) the perfecting of the secretion ( itself perhaps owing these two constituents to its two kinds of cell respectively ) in the open ends only of these tubes the latter is , on the whole , preferable .
The protection of the stomach from its own secretion is effected mainly by the salivary and other secretions which enter it from the oesophagus and duodenum .
The living stomach decomposes a neutral or alkaline blood so as to set free an acid ; but though transfused blood undergoes this decomposition , a saline solution not only fails to evoke it , but injures or destroys the gastric powers .
There is no evidence of any exhaustion of the pepsinous constituents of the gastric mucous membrane at any period of digestion .
As regards other variations of power , age seems to exercise but a moderate influence on the gastric mucous membrane ; species , again , has a subordinate effect ; genus is much more influential .
For units of mucous membrane , Fishes seem to have the most powerful gastric digestion .
The influences of tenmperature , analogous in all animals , vary exceedingly as regards the absolute heats which respectively favour , accelerate , and destroy the powers of the stomach ; so that the same heat which is practically necessary for the function of this organ inL a warm-blooded Mammal , annihilates the efficacy of the pepsine of many Fishes .
The action of the gastric juice is a transfer , to albumen , &amp;c. , of a molecular change going on in the gastric juice ; pepsine and peptone being essentially analogous to each other in properties .
The formation of peptone is a hydration of albumen , as shown by various collateral circumstances of the process .
ADDENDA .
1 .
The pancreatice , or pancreatic infusion , which converts albumen into a substance akin to peptone , and in proportions not very unlike those which would be obtainable by using certain parts of the mucous membrane of the stomach of some animals , and which does this by a process so far sui generis , as that it is no way shared by the salivary organs most analogous to itself in structure and function , is yet distinguishable from the gastric juice in regard to the process and the product of this change .
The change is , indeed , an incident of putrefaction only , and therefore not a function of the healthy living organ .
2 .
The intestinal juice , or the secretion of the intestinal tubes , is neither capable of converting albumen , &amp;c. into peptone , nor of converting starch into sugar .
The offices of these tubes are therefore , probably , chiefly of absorption and of excretion .

