Roots of the Leguminosece .
Abrus precatorius .
331 VI .
" The Tubercular Swellings on the Roots of the Legu-minoseas .
" By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.L.S. , Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , and Professor of Botany in the Forestry School , Royal Indian College , Cooper 's Hill .
Communicated by Prof. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 25 , 1887 .
( Preliminary Note .
) The author finds that the tubercles on the roots of the Legu-minoseaa are due to the action of a parasitic fungus .
Not only has he produced the tubercles by infection from without , but he has also found the infecting agent , and repeatedly seen and figured the infecting hypha passing down inside a root-hair and across the cortex of the root into the young tubercle .
Here the hyphal branches bud off yeast-like cells , which are extremely minute and numerous , and resemble bacteria at first sight ; they differ in their mode of multiplying by budding .
The action of these minute germ-like bodies causes the protoplasm of the cells of the root to assume plasmodium-like characters , and induces the flow of nutritive substances to these cells , and hypertrophy results .
On the decay of the tubercles , the germ-like bodies pass into the soil ( where they can always be found ) and infect other roots ; it is very probable they may be of extreme importance in agriculture .
VII .
" TheProteids of the Seeds of ( Jequirity ) .
" By Sidney Martin , M.D. Lond. , Fellow of University College , London , and Pathologist to the Victoria Park Hospital .
Communicated by Prof. E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. ( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Received April 21 , 1887 .
The proteids of the seeds of Abrns , the Indian liquorice , are important physiologically , because they have been shown ( by Warden and Waddell* ) to be possessed of poisonous properties .
To the poisonous product extracted by these observers the name " abrin " was given ; and though it was decided that abriu was closely allied to " plant-albumin , " yet no experiments were recorded to show whether the product was a mixture or a single proteid .
They obtained it by * ' The Non-bacillar Nature of Abrus-poison .
' By C. J. H. Warden and L. A. Waddell .
Calcutta , 1884 .
VOL. XLII .
2 B Dr. S. Martin .
On [ May 5 , making a watery extract of the crushed seeds and precipitating with alcohol , the precipitate being afterwards collected and dried .
Before proceeding to an examination of the physiological action of the jequirity , it seemed to me desirable to determine the kind of proteids present in the seeds , and the present communication embodies the results of the inquiries made with a view to such determination .
Method of Extraction of the Proteids .
The method used was based on the supposition that the proteids present in Abrus were similar to those in other seeds , consisting chiefly of proteids of the globulin and albumose classes .
The finely ground seeds were shaken first of all with chloroform to remove the red cuticle which sinks in this liquid , so that the yellow kernel-powder could be readily removed , and obtained in the dry state by allowing the chloroform to evaporate .
Ihe powder obtained was then extracted with 15 per cent , sodium chloride solution for twenty-four hours , and the mixture filtered .
The yellowish filtrate was distinctly acid and gave a copious precipitate on boiling .
The proteids were separated from this filtrate in two ways:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Saturation with neutral ammonium sulphate and shaking for four hours throws down all the proteids in solution ; the filtrate , after saturation , giving none of the pixfieid tests .
( 2 .
) Saturation with sodium chloride and shaking for many hours gives only a scanty precipitate , which becomes copious on adding a large excess of glacial acetic acid .
All the proteids are only with difficulty precipitated by this mode of saturation , even after prolonged shaking .
Since ammonium sulphate so readily throws down all the proteids in solution , the precipitate caused by it was used in the following manner in the examination of the proteids:\#151 ; The precipitate was collected and dissolved by adding distilled wrater , and the solution dialysed in running water ( with thymol ) for five to seven days .
Dialysis caused a copious precipitate , which was collected and washed with distilled water ( previously boiled to remove carbon dioxide ) until no proteid in solution was present in the washings .
The precipitate was then dried over sulphuric acid .
The residue was in dark-brown scales .
It consisted of globulin with some colouring matter .
It is not possible to remove all the globulin by dialysis , so the liquid , after dialysing for seven days , was filtered into rectified spirit , which precipitated the remaining proteids .
After standing under the alcohol six to eight weeks the globulin was coagulated , and the precipitate was collected , dried , and treated with distilled water , which 1887 .
] Proteids of the Seeds of Abrus precatorius .
dissolved out a profceid .
This proteid is an albumose .
The chloride of sodium method may be used instead of the ammonium sulphate ; it takes a longer time , but gives products freer from colouring matter .
For chemical examination , the albumose is readily prepared by boiling and filtering an aqueous infusion of the seed .
The globulin is coagulated -while the albumose remains in solution .
Properties of the Globulin .
1 .
It is insoluble in distilled water , but readily soluble in 10 to 15 per cent , sodium chloride or magnesium sulphate solution ; soluble to \amp ; less extent in 5 per cent , sodium chloride solution , and scarcely at .all in 0'75 per cent. * 2 .
It is completely precipitated from solution by saturation with sodium chloride after slightly acidifying , and with ammonium sulphate , whether the solution be neutral , acid , or alkaline .
3 .
It is coagulated by heat in 10 per cent , magnesium sulphate solution , between 75 ' and 80 ' C. , the liquid being made distinctly acid ; in 10 per cent , sodium chloride , between 66 ' and 73 ' C. 4 .
When the solution in 10 per cent , sodium chloride is placed in the incubator at 35 ' to 40 ' 0 .
, and allowed to remain twenty-four or even forty-eight hours , no precipitation occurs ; a reaction in marked contrast to that given by some vegetable globulins .
In its high eoagulation temperature , and in its non-precipitation from solution by prolonged exposure to a moderate heat , abrus-globulin agrees with the proteid I have described in the juice of the fruit of , which , from its resemblance to serum-globulin , I have called vegetable paraglobulin.* The vegetable myosins occurring in the cereals , wheat , rye , and barley , have a lower coagulation temperature than the paraglobulins , viz. , 50'\#151 ; 55 ' C. , and are precipitated from solution and rendered insoluble by a prolonged exposure to a temperature of 35 40 ' C.f Properties of the Albumose .
1 .
Soluble in cold or boiling distilled water .
Its chemical and physical properties are not apparently altered by boiling its solution .
2 .
It is not precipitated from solution by saturation with sodium chloride unless a large excess of glacial acetic or phosphoric acid be added .
It is readily precipitated by saturation with neutral ammonium sulphate .
3 .
It does not form an albuminate .
4 .
Nitric acid does not precipitate it in a watery solution ; but a precipitate falls if solid sodium chloride be added nearly to saturation .
* " Nature of Papain , \amp ; c. , " ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 6 , p. 353 .
f ' Physiol. Soc. Proe .
, ' Feb. 12 , 1887 .
334 Mr. J. J. Walker .
[ May 5 , 5 .
Acetic acid causes a cloudiness , which is increased by potassium ferrocyanide .
6 .
Copper sulphate and basic acetate of lead cause precipitates soluble in excess ; mercuric chloride , a precipitate insoluble in excess .
7 .
Copper sulphate and potash give a pink coloration ( biuret reaction ) .
For the albumoses occurring in the vegetable kingdom I have proposed the name phytalbumoses , as they differ in many respects from the animal varieties .
The phytalbumose in Abrus is closely allied to Kuhne and Chittenden 's deutero-albumose , * and identical with the a-phytalbumose occurring in the papaw juice .
+ There are , therefore , two proteids in the seeds of Abrus precatorius , a vegetable paraglobulin and a-phytalbumose .
In conjunction with Dr. Wolfenden , I am now engaged in investigating the physiological action of each of these proteids , and hope soon to publish the results .
For the present it will be sufficient to call to notice the close resemblance between the proteids of the papaw juice and those of jequirity , since their physiological action appears to be in many respects similar .
VIII .
" On the Diameters of Plane Cubics .
Preliminary Notice .
" By J. J. Walker , F.R.S. Received April 21 , 1887 .
I showed some time back ( ' London Math. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 10 , pp. 184-5 ) that the Newtonian diameters of a plane cubic ( u ) envelope a conic , called hereinafter its " centroid , " the equation of which , if in the system of co-ordinates chosen the line at infinity be !
;%+ vi + \amp ; = 0 , is generally s\ die * dz2 \dydzjJ yi\gt ; dx2 die dz ) The " centroid " has the same " criterion - function , " but with changed sign , as the cubic ; viz. , it is equal to minus one-fourth of the reciprocal of u , with the substitution of for ; i.e. , if u be written u == aa ?
+ by^ + cz3 + ... .
the criterion-function is equal to \#151 ; ( 62c2\#163 ; \#171 ; + . . .
.)/ 4 ; * Kuhne and Chittenden , " Ueber Adbumosen , " ' Zeitschr .
fur Biologie , vol. 20 .
+ " Nature of Papain , \amp ; c. , " ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 6 , p. 344 .

