I. " A Ninth Memoir on Quantics .
" By Prof. CAYLEY , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) It was shown not long ago by Prof. Gordan that the number of the irreducible covariants of a binary quantic of any order is finite ( see his memoir " Beweis das jede Covariante und Invariante einer biniren Form cine ganze Function mit numerischen Coefficienten einer endlichen Anzahl soleher Formen ist , " Crelle , t. 69 ( 1869 ) , Memoir dated 8 June 1868 ) , and in particular that for a binary quantic the number of irreducible covariants ( including the quantic and the invariants ) is = 23 , and that for a binary sextic the number is = 26 .
From the theory given in my " Second Memoir on Quantics , " Phil. Trans. 1856 , I derived the conclusion , which as it now appears was erroneous , that for a binary quintic the number of irreducible covariants was infinite .
The theory requires , in fact , a modification , by reason that certain linear relations , which I had assumed to be independent , are really not independent , but , on the contrary , linearly connected together : the interconnexion in question does not occur in regard to the quadric , cubic , or quartic ; and for these cases respectively the theory is true as it stands ; for the quintic the interconnexion first presents itself in regard to the degree 8 in the coefficients , and order 14 in the variables ; viz. the theory gives correctly the number of covariants of any degree not exceeding 7 , and also those of the degree 8 , and order less than 14 ; but for the order 14 the theory as it stands gives a nonexistent irreducible covariant ( a,..)8( , y)"1 ; viz. we have , according to the theory , 5 =(10-6)+ 1 , that is , of the form in question there are 10 composite covariants connected by 6 syzygies , and therefore equivalent to 10-6 , =4 asyzygetic covariants ; but the number of asyzygetic covariants being = 5 , there is left , according to the theory , 1 irreducible covariant of the form in question .
The fact is that the 6 syzygies bein , g interconnected and equivalent to 5 independent syzygies only , the composite covariants are equivalent to 10-5 , =5 , the full number of the asyzygetic covariants , And similarly the theory as it stands gives a non-existent irreducible covariant ( a,..)8( , y)2o .
The theory being thus in error , by reason that i 1870 .
] 343 omits to take account of the interconnexion of the syzygies , there is no difficulty in conceiving that the effect is the introduction of an infinite series of non-existent irreducible covariants , which , when the error is corrected , will disappear , and there will be left only a finite series of irreducible covariants .
Although I am not able to make this correction in a general manner so as to show from the theory that the number of the irreducible covariants is finite , and so to present the theory in a complete form , it nevertheless appears that the theory can be made to accord with the facts ; and I reproduce the theory , as well to show that this is so as to exhibit certain new formulae which appear to me to place the theory in its true light .
I remark that although I have in my second memoir considered the question of finding the number of irredulcible covariants of a given degree 0 in the coefficients but of any order whatever in the variables , the better course is to separate these according to their order in the variables , and so consider the question of finding the number of the irreducible covariants of a given degree 0 in the coefficients , and of a given order pt in the variables .
( This is , of course , what has to be done for the enumeration of the irreducible covariants of a given quantic ; and what is done completely for the quadric , the cubic , and the quartic , and for the quintic up to the degree 6 in my Eighth Memoir ( Phil. Trans. 1867 ) .
The new formulae exhibit this separation ; thus ( Second Memoir , No. 49 ) , writing a instead of w , we have for the quadric the expression ( l a ) &gt; ]--L2 ) , showing that we have irreducible covariants of the degrees 1 and 2 respectively , viz. the quadric itself and the discriminant : the new expression is ( i---a2-( i-a ) showing that the covariants in question are of the actual forms ( a,. .
&gt; x , y)2 and ( ,. .
)2 respectively .
Similarly for the cubic , instead I --aG of the expression No. 55 , ( )( -( we have 1a aa , ) ( 1{-a ' ) ( 1 --a % ) ( i1^--a ' : ) ( Jl--a ) ' exhibiting the irreducible covariants of the forms ( a,. .
, y ) , ) ( , ) ( y)2 , ( a.)3 ( x , y)3 , and ( a,. .
) , connected by a syzygy of the form ( a,. .
) ( , y ) ; and the like for quantics of a higher order .
In the present Ninth Memoir I give the last-mentioned formulae ; I carry on the theory of the quintic , extending the Table No. 82 of the Eighth Memoir up to the degree 8 , calculating all the svzygies , and thus establishing the interconnexions , in virtue of which it appears that there are really no irreducible covariants of the forms ( a,. .
) ( y)14 , and ( a,..8x , y)0 .
I reproduce in part Prof. Gordan 's theory so far as it applies to the quintic ; and I give the expressions of such of the 23 covariants as are not given in my former memoirs ; these last were calculated 344 [ May 19 , for me by Mr. W. Barrett Davis , by the aid of a grant from the Donation Fund at the disposal of the Royal Society .
The paragraphs of the present memoir are numbered consecutively with those of the former memoirs on Quantics .

