22 Mr. R. J. Moss on the Condensation of [ May 11 , The projectile has still 28 feet to fall through .
As an approximation let us put | .
28\#151 ; sin 3 ' 20 ' We should get S , Sec3o20=2502-3 ' .* .
q sec 3 ' 20'= 1193-0 .
.- .
using equation ( a ) , D=38'-2 .
We may now put X = 28 cot ( 3C 19'-1 ) = 482-8 and T==^^ 3 nearly -402 .
Summation of X's:\#151 ; 2929 2529*5 .
482-8 Range = 5941-3 Summation of T 's :\#151 ; 2-183 2-028 .402 Time of flight = 4-613 The observed range and time of flight were in this particular case 6060 feet and 4*75 sec. III .
" !
Condensation of Vapour of Mercury on Selenium in the Sprengel Vacuum .
" By R. J. Moss , F.C.S. , Chemical Laboratory , Royal Dublin Society .
Communicated by G. Johnstone Stony , F.R.S. Received March 25 , 1876 .
In the course of experiments on the electrical conductivity of selenium , a cylindrical bar of this substance in the vitreous state was enclosed in a glass tube which was attached to the exhaust-tube of a Sprengel pump .
The bar of selenium was 45 millims. long and 3*5 millims. in diameter .
Platinum wires were attached to the ends of it and passed through the sides of the glass tube .
The tube was exhausted , and allowed to remain attached to the pump for four days .
It was now found that the selenium had acquired a conductivity greatly exceeding that of the pure element in its most highly conducting condition .
The experiment was repeated with the intention of observing the time required to produce conductivity .
In forty-two hours the needle of a highly sensitive gal1876 .
] Vapour of Mercury on Selenium .
vanometer was slightly deflected when the selenium was placed in the circuit of ten Leclanche cells .
The conductivity of the selenium increased rapidly for four days , when the experiment was unavoidably interrupted .
On admitting air to the tube no change of conductivity was observed .
The selenium was unaltered in appearance , even when examined microscopically .
On breaking the bar it was found that the conducting-film was entirely superficial ; it was not removed by rubbing forcibly with a cloth .
Dilute nitric acid also failed to remove it .
Bibulous paper moistened with solution of silver ammonio-nitrate was not stained by it ( Merget , ' Comptes Kendus , '* vol. lxxiii .
p. 1356 ) .
It therefore appears highly probable that the film does not consist of un combined mercury .
As it has not hitherto been known that mercury combines with selenium at ordinary temperatures , a bar of selenium was immersed in mercury and allowed to remain undisturbed for six months .
At the end of this time it was found that the selenium was coated with a highly conducting film .
I could not dectect any difference between this film and those produced in the Sprengel vacuum .
An attempt was now made to estimate the quantity of mercury required to produce the observed conductivity .
A bar of selenium 125 millims. long and 2 millims. in diameter , having platinum wires fused into each end , was enclosed in a glass tube , containing also a minute globule of mercury about 0-5 millim. in diameter .
The tube was exhausted by means of the Sprengel pump , and then hermetically sealed and detached from the pump .
In 92 hours the bar began to conduct , and the conductivity increased rapidly from day to day for four days .
On the fifth day , no increase being observed , it was supposed that air had leaked into the tube ; and on examining it a flaw , which would account for the leakage , was detected .
The tube was therefore again attached to the pump , exhausted , and again sealed , the defective portion being removed .
The conductivity of the bar again increased from day to day , and is still steadily but slowly increasing ( eleven days after the second sealing of the tube ) .
Although the bar of selenium now possesses a comparatively low resistance , I cannot detect the slightest alteration in the size of the minute globule of mercury which has supplied the material for the conducting-film , extending over a surface one thousand times greater than that of the globule .
The granular modification produced by subjecting vitreous selenium to a temperature of 100 ' C. for three hours also acquires a great increase of conductivity when exposed to the vapour of mercury in the Sprengel vacuum .
As it is possible at any moment to arrest the formation of these conducting-films , bars of selenium of any given high resistance may be obtained in this way with great certainty and accuracy .

