579 .
] On Electrical Insulation in High Vacua .
347 The glass then gave way , and all the phenomena disappeared except , e extreme ends of the cross , and the discharge through the hole , here the glass had been perforated , was alone seen .
The phenomena were seen by Mr. Cottrell , by Mr. Valter ( the icond assistant ) , and by myself .
A fresh glass plate was at once rilled in hopes of repeating the phenomena in the lecture next day , at owing to sparks springing round we did not succeed in perforating he glass , and therefore saw only the faint return of light described ( jy Dr. Kerr .
Some more glasses have been prepared and their terminals in-alated , and I now propose to make another attempt to repeat the new ffects before the Royal Society .
February 20 , 1879 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Electrical Insulation in High Vacua .
" By William Crookes , F.R.S. Received February 6 , 1879 .
The experiments here described were tried nearly two years ago .
They were suggested by some observations I was then making on the passage of an induction current through highly exhausted tubes .
The main branch of the research being likely to occupy my attention for some time , I may be unable to return to these less important offshoots .
I have ventured , therefore , to Embody them in a short note for the " Proceedings of the Royal Society .
" A pair of gold leaves were mounted , as for an electroscope , in a bulb blown from English lead glass tubing .
The leaves were attached to a glass stem and the lower part of the bulb was drawn out for sealing to a Sprengel pump as shown at fig. 1 .
A stick of ebonite excited by friction was generally used as the source of electricity , but any other source will do equally well , provided it is not too powerful .
No special attention was paid to the action of electricity on the leaves in air or at moderate vacua , as it agreed with what is already well known .
The exhaustion was pushed to a very high degree ( about the millionth of an atmosphere ) , when it was found that the excited 348 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Feb. 2( ebonite had a much greater effect on the gold leaves than at a lowe exhaustion ; for a long time however I was not able to charge th leaves permanently , in consequence of their falling together as sooi as the source of electricity was removed .
Fio .
l. When a hot substance was brought near the bulb facing a gold leaf , so as to warm the glass , molecular repulsion took place , and the leaves retreated from the warm spot , standing out at an angle of about 45 ' .
As the glass cooled the leaves resumed their former vertical position .
While the leaves were repelled from the hot glass , the excited ebonite had a very powerful action on them , and if it were brought near hastily , the leaves flew off to the side of the glass , destroying the apparatus .
By careful management and repeated trials , however , the ebonite could be brought near the warm spot of glass , the leaves suddenly extending at an angle to each other .
The appearance was as if a spark had been able to pass across the bridge formed by the line of advancing and retreating molecules connecting the hot glass with the gold leaves .
On the ebonite being removed and the glass allowed to cool , it was found that the repulsion of the leaves was permanent .
The rubbed ebonite would attract and repel them as it was moved to and fro , but the angle formed by the leaves with one another remained unchanged .
A warm body brought near the glass opposite one leaf would repel the pair as a whole ; on then warming the opposite side of the glass repulsion on that side took place , the angle of the leaves being somewhat diminished , but on cooling the leaves opened again to their former extent .
When the glass bulb was strongly heated by a spirit flame the leaves suddenly discharged and fell together .
Another bulb ( fig. 2 ) was prepared , containing a plate of mica , a , which could be suddenly placed between the gold leaves , The 879.1 Electrical Insulation in High Vacua .
349* late of mica was longer and wider than the gold leaves , and was con-lected with a small piece of iron wire , capable of moving up and Fig. 2 .
, down a tube sealed into the top of the bulb .
By means of an outside magnet the mica plate could thus be lowered between the gold leaves or raised out of their way , as desired .
The tube was exhausted to about the millionth of an atmosphere , the mica plate being held quite above the leaves .
One side of the bulb was then heated , and the Fig. 3 .
350 Mr. W. Crookes on [ Feb. 20 .
leaves permanently charged by means of the excited ebonite .
The mica plate was now carefully lowered .
As it came between the gold leaves they diverged further apart , and kept so as long as the mica plate was between them .
On removing the plate the leaves reassumed their former divergence .
This could be repeated any number of times .
A similar piece of apparatus ( fig. 3 ) was made , only instead of a mica plate coming between the leaves , a mica cylinder , a , capable of being raised and lowered outside the divergent leaves , was employed .
I was not able to get entirely concordant results with this , owing to the friction of the mica developing electricity on the inner surface of the glass tube ; but in all cases , when the cylinder was raised until it covered the electrified leaves , it had the effect of diminishing the angle which they formed with each other .
The following experiments were also tried:\#151 ; the leaves being separated about 160 ' , as at fig. 4 , A , one side of the tube was slightly Fig. 4 .
heated by a spirit flame .
The leaf on that side fell to a vertical position , and remained so when all was cold , the other leaf sticking out as before , as at B. This would seem to show that the divergence of the leaves in this case was not so much due to their mutual repulsion , as to an attraction exerted on each of them by the inner surface of the glass tube .
The remaining divergent leaf could be slightly lowered when the glass tube above it was warmed with a bunch of cotton wool dipped in hot water .
On cooling the leaf rose again to its original position .
When this side of the tube was also heated with a lamp , the leaf was repelled down , but not so readily as the other had been , and when the tube got cold , it rose to nearly its former position .
This was repeated several times with uniform results .
When the leaf was repelled down , the vertical leaf also 1879 .
] Electrical Insulation in High Vacua .
351 moved away , so as to keep the same angle between them .
It is therefore evident that the leaves themselves were also charged .
f I\#174 ; # \lt ; h \#166 ; ale gif I iA Fio .
4 .
AH M Fig. 4 , C , shows the two positions of the leaves , aa before applying heat to the side c of the tube , and b after heating the glass at c. The tube was now heated on both sides , causing the leaves to come nearer together as shown at fig. 4 , D. While the glass was warm the cylinder was raised so that it surrounded the leaves : this caused them to get a little closer together , and they kept in this position , shown at E , after the whole apparatus was quite cold .
After remaining thus for some time , the cylinder was lowered , and the leaves widened out and took up tft\#169 ; position shown at bb , fig. 4 , C. They did not return to the position aa , showing that their divergence was now owing to their own mutual repulsion , and not to an attraction of one or other to the electrified glass .
In December , 1877 , I totally immersed one of these exhausted glass bulbs in a vessel of water ; the gold leaves having previously been charged , and standing at an angle of 112 ' from one another , as at fig. 5 .
The water was connected electrically with " earth , " and the whole was set aside in a cabinet on the 1st of January , 1878 .
At the present time , after having remained in this condition for thirteen months , the leaves form exactly the same angle with one another which they did when they were first put in the cabinet .
VOL. xxviii .
2 c Profs .
Living and Dewar [ Feb. 20 , Fig. 5 .
From this experience I think we may consider that at an exhaustion of a millionth of an atmosphere , air is an absolute non-conductor of statical electricity .
It is , therefore , legitimate to conclude that the vacuum of interstellar space offers equal obstruction to the discharge of electrified bodies , without necessarily interfering with their mutual repulsion if similarly electrified .
It is possible that in these facts an explanation may be found of some obscure celestial phenomena .
II .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" No. IV .
By G. D. Living , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received February 12 , 1879 .
In the experiments described in the following communication , instead , of introducing the substances to be observed in the metallic form into our tubes , we have endeavoured to overcome , to some extent , the difficulty of the presence of impurities by making use of reactions which should generate the metallic vapours within the tubes .
For this purpose we have generally employed the great reducing power of carbon and of aluminium at high temperatures .
In a former communication ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii ) we described the reversal of the two blue lines of caesium and the two violet lines of rubidium by the vapours of those metals , produced by heating their chlorides with sodium in glass tubes .
It might be doubtful from these experiments whether the absorption were due to the metals or to the chlorides .
To decide this question , we first tried| caesium chloride by itself , heated in a tube such as we used before .
No absorption lines could be seen , although a good deal of the chloride had been vaporized and distilled to the cool part of the tube .
-The experiments were next repeated , both with rubidium and caesium

