56 Dr. G , Gore .
Liversidge ( A. ) Waters from Hot Springs , Hew Britain and Fiji .
The Action of Sea-water upon Cast-iron .
Notes upon some Minerals from New Caledonia .
On the Composition of some Coral Limestones , \amp ; c. , from the South Sea Islands .
The Alkaloid from Piturie .
On some New South Wales Minerals .
On the Composition of some Wood enclosed in Basalt .
8vo .
Sydney 1880-81 .
The Author , Nicholson ( H. A. ) On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticulipora and its Sub-genera .
8vo .
Edinburgh and London 1881 .
The Author , Siemens ( C. W. ) , F.R.S. On the Dynamo-electric Current .
4to .
Gras and Electricity as Heating Agents .
8vo .
London 1881 .
The Author .
Impression in Wax of Seal-portrait of Sir Isaac Newton .
R. Etheridge , Esq. , F.R.S. " Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids."* By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 1 , 1880 , Read December 16 .
1 .
General Statement of the Phenomena .
In a recent preliminary statement ( see " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 322 ) I have mentioned that " when an electric current was passed between the surfaces of mutual contact of certain aqueous solutions of different specific gravities , the boundary surfaces of contact of the two-liquids became indefinite where the current passed from the lighter mto the heavier solution , and became sharply defined where the current left the heavier and re-entered the lighter liquid ; and that on reversing the direction of the current several times in succession after suitable intervals of time , these effects were reversed with each such change .
Also , in various cases in which the contiguous boundary layers of the two liquids had become mixed , the liquids separated , and the line of separation of the two solutions became by the influence of the electric current as perfect as that between strata of oil and water lying upon each other .
" These and other phenomena which accompany them form the subject of the present communication .
The chief additional phenomena observed have been\#151 ; 1st .
The production of definite lines , not only where the current passed from the .
* This research arose out of one on " The Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope .
" See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 295 .
Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
57 heavier into the lighter solution , but also ( in certain cases ) at the surface where it passed from the lighter to the heavier one ; 2nd .
The production in some cases of two or three separate lines at the former situation , and less frequently also at the latter one ; and , 3rd .
An apparent movement of the mass of the heavier solution , usually in the direction of the electric current , but in certain exceptional cases in a reverse direction .
In all cases there occurred in addition the more or less influencing circumstance , rise of temperature ( by conduction , resistance , \amp ; c. ) , with its usual effects .
The earliest allied experiment known to me is one by Faraday ( Exp. Res. 494 ) , who passed an electric current from forty cells , four inches square , by means of platinum plate electrodes , through a strong solution of magnesic sulphate into a layer of distilled water , half an inch deep and about seven square inches in area , lying upon it .
In less than one minute magnesia appeared at the boundary surface of the two liquids , forming a layer one-eighth of an inch deep in the water immediately upon the magnesic solution .
The water above was quite clear .
There was no alkali at the negative platinum plate , but plenty of acid at the positive one .
This experiment was repeatedly verified .
Daniell subsequently in a research on the " Electrolysis of Secondary Compounds " ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1840 , pp. 209-224 ) , passed an upward current through solutions of the nitrates of silver , mercury , and lead , and the sulphates of palladium , copper , iron , and magnesium into a dilute one of caustic potash , separated from them by a thin horizontal diaphragm of bladder .
Oxygen was determined to the upper , and the respective metals to the lower , surface of the diaphragm , and deposits of metal , more or less oxidised , were formed upon the latter surface , the oxidation being more complete the more oxidisable the metal ; with the magnesium salt oxide alone was obtained .
2 .
The Influence of Kind and Strength of the Liquids .
In order to obtain a general basis of facts , I made a number of experiments with the following apparatus :\#151 ; A is a glass cylinder , 20 centims. high and 6 or 7 centims. diameter , open at both ends ; B is a vulcanised india-rubber bung , tightly fitting the cylinder ; C is a glass cup ( of nearly equal diameter to that of the inside of the cylinder ) , with a perfectly flat and watertight lid of guttapercha , secured by means of varnish ; D and E are open tubes of glass , about 15 or 18 millims. high and 8 or 10 millims. internal diameter , flat at their ends , and fitting tightly in the lid of the cup ; F is an open glass tube , about 17 centims. high and 26 millims. diameter , perfectly flat at its lower end ; G and H are large electrodes of sheet platinum .
The apparatus whilst being used should be situated in a strong light .
The cup is first filled with a heavy and strongly coloured elec- 58 Dr. Gr .
Gore .
trolyte to about half the height of the tubes D and E , care being taken to exclude all bubbles of air , and the lid of the cup is coated with grease over that portion upon which the end of the tube F is to stand ; the cup is then placed upon the bung B , and the latter inserted tightly in the cylinder , and the cylinder fixed steady .
Two corks ( secured upon the ends of stout platinum wires , about 20 centims. long ) are now inserted in the ends of the tubes D and E , and the cylinder A nearly filled with the lighter and colourless electrolyte .
The electrode of the tube F is now fixed in position by means of a cross-bar of cork .
The tube ( enclosing one of the platinum wires ) is next simultaneously Fro .
1 .
immersed , together with the electrode G , in the liquid , and its lower end very slowly and carefully placed so as to stand perfectly flat and watertight upon the lid of the cup .
Both the upper end of the tube F and of the electrode G are now fixed tightly in the cylinder by means of pieces of cork .
The cork from the tube E is then withdrawn with extreme slowness , so as not to destroy the definite meniscus , and then the one in D similarly removed .
The current from five or ten ( or more ) Grove 's elements is now at once passed from G to H ( before the liquids in D and E have time to mix ) , and the effects upon the Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
59 contact surfaces of the two liquids ( and especially upon the portions of liquid immediately above them ) continually observed and noted .
To those of the lower liquids which were colourless , strong colour was imparted by addition beforehand of solution of litmus .
Although purity of the liquids does not appear to materially affect the phenomena under examination , distilled water , pure acids , and usually salts of a high degree of purity were employed in all cases .
In all the first six experiments of the following series a current from a single row of five Grove 's elements , each of one pint capacity , was used ; and the apparatus already described was employed in all those to No. 36 .
^ Experiment 1.\#151 ; Meniscus tubes 12 millims. high and 3 5 millims. bore Lower liquid , a saturated solution of cupric chloride of a green colour ; upper one , dilute sulphuric acid , 1 in 10 .
After passing the current during five minutes , the cupric solution in the tube under anode was deep green , and its meniscus indefinite ; and under cathode blue , with meniscus definite .
Reversed current repeatedly and obtained similar effects each time after about ten or fifteen minutes .
Remarks .
The blue colour at the positive end of the cupric solution was probably due to the accumulation of basic chloride by the influence of the current .
Exp. 2.\#151 ; -Same tubes .
Lower liquid , a saturated aqueous solution of cupric sulphate ; upper one , same as in last experiment .
Free conduction .
Positive meniscus definite and negative one indefinite.* By reversing the current the previously definite one thickened out and rapidly became lower in position , whilst the other one gradnally became definite and rose in position , as if the mass of the liquid moved in the same direction as the current .
Exp. 3\#151 ; Same tubes .
Lower liquid same as last ; upper one , 1 volume of hydrochloric acid and 6 of water .
Conduction free .
No green colour at negative meniscus below anode .
( Found by a separate experiment that the addition of hydrochloric acid to a solution of cupric sulphate did not make the latter green .
) Positive meniscus was definite , negative one indefinite and diffused .
The anode became coated with solid hydrate of chlorine , which fell off and decomposed with evolution of gas on stopping the current .
Exp. 4.\#151 ; Meniscus tubes 15 millims. long and 4 millims. bore , were now used in all experiments to No. 12 .
Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric chloride ; upper one a saturated solution of potassic sulphate .
Conduction moderate .
Positive meniscus definite , and soon a second and parallel line appeared beneath it , the intervening stratum being weak in colour ; negative meniscus diffuse .
Reversed the current , first an upper , and then a second and lower line appeared under the cathode ; the other meniscus became diffuse and indefinite .
* By positive meniscus I mean the one under the cathode , and by negative that under the anode .
Dr. G. Gore .
Exp. 5.\#151 ; Lower liquid , 1| ozs .
of potassic bichromate dissolved in 12 ozs .
water ; upper one a half saturated solution of sodic carbonate .
Conduction moderate .
The bulk of the lower liquid appeared to move iu a direction opposite to that of the current , and its level became 8 millims. lower in the tube under the cathode than in that under anode .
A double meniscus line formed in the positive tube ( i.e. , under cathode ) .
Gas was evolved at the positive meniscus , probably carbonic anhydride .
Positive meniscus became ultimately 12 millims. lower than negative one .
On stopping the current the positive meniscus rose and the negative one fell immediately .
Exp. 6.\#151 ; Lower liquid , a saturated solution of cupric sulphate , upper one dilute nitric acid 1 in 12 .
Copious conduction .
Blue liquid rose in tube under cathode , and sank in that under anode .
Positive meniscus very definite , negative one diffuse .
Exp.7.\#151 ; How employed a single series of six Grove 's elements in all the experiments to Ho. 34 .
Lower liquid a saturated solution of mercuric nitrate ( not coloured ) ; upper one , dilute nitric acid 1 in 12 .
Free conduction .
A layer of wdiite powder , 25 millims. thick , soon accumulated at the positive end of the lower liquid .
Reversal of current quickly caused the salt to disappear , and to reappear at the opposite ( now the positive ) meniscus .
\#151 ; The white powder was probably salt accumulated by the influence of the current .
Exp. 8.\#151 ; Lower liquid a nearly saturated solution of yellow potassic chromate ; upper one same as in last experiment .
A thin layer of solid red salt set free at each meniscus by chemical action .
How passed the current .
Salt at positive meniscus dissolved quickly .
Positive meniscus descended slowly and negative one ascended , as if the lower solution moved in an opposite direction to that of the current .
Exp. 9.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper one same as in last experiment .
Copious conduction .
The definite line commenced to be visible at positive meniscus in two minutes , and soon became of a deeper blue colour than the layer of solution immediately below it , as if the blue colour ascended and caused the colour to become concentrated as it progressed .
Exp. 10.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric chloride ; upper one same as in last experiment .
Copious conduction .
Definite line of blue colour soon formed at positive meniscus .
The solution below negative meniscus being green .
Reversal of current reversed these effects .
Remarks.\#151 ; The line of blue colour at the positive meniscus may have been due to electrolytic accumulation of basic chloride , or to electric diffusion of nitric acid .
Dilute nitric acid does produce such a change of colour in a solution of cupric chloride .
Exp. 11.\#151 ; Tubes 18 millims. long and 5 millims. bore .
Lower liquid a nearly saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper one dilute nitric acid 1 in 10 .
Very free conduction .
In two minutes the negaInfluence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
61 tive meniscus became diffused , and the positive one a distinct line ; the solution was of a lighter colour 3'0 millims. below the latter meniscus than lower down .
Several reversals of the current reversed these effects each time in a few minutes , the period requisite increasing each time .
Exp. 12.\#151 ; Same tubes as in Experiments 5 to 11 .
Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper one dilute hydrochloric acid 1 volume to 8 of water .
Copious conduction .
Coloured liquid below anode seemed to sink .
A definite line appeared at positive meniscus in one and a half minute .
By reversal of current that line became indefinite almost at once , and a definite one appeared at the other surface of contact in two and a half minutes .
The mass of lower solution appeared to move in the direction of the current .
Exp. 13.\#151 ; Tubes 15 millims. long and 7'5 millims. bore .
Lower liquid same as in last experiment ; upper one , 2 ozs .
potassic bromide dissolved in 12 ozs .
water .
Each contact surface of the lower liquid became green previous to passage of current .
Conduction moderate .
Green colour extended downwards at surface below anode , and did not decrease at the other meniscus .
Definite lines were produced at both meniscuses , the negative meniscus also became bluish .
Reversed current , a definite line was produced in an extremely dilute part of lower solution below cathode ; the other appearances were also reversed .
Fig. 2 .
Cclc curies s-----------------1 Pale greeiv - ---------- \#151 ; ---- Dirty qrceru alinast blacks \#151 ; BLllC------------ ---------Exp .
14.\#151 ; Lower liquid the same as in the last experiment ; upper one dilute nitric acid 1 in 10 .
Two definite horizontal lines formed in the lower liquid below cathode in about one minute , about 1*75 millim. asunder , with a pale yellow stratum of liquid beneath them , and soon merged into each other .
The other meniscus sank and became diffuse .
Exp. 15.\#151 ; Lower liquid a strong green solution of cupric bromide ; upper one same as in last experiment .
Upper surfaces of lower solution were convex and became blue without the aid of the current .
Copious conduction .
Blueness of surface disappeared from negative meniscus and increased to positive one , and became deeper in colour to 1*75 millim. thick .
Definite line at surface below cathode , and diffused meniscus below anode .
Negative meniscus became strongly G2 Dr. G. Gore .
convex and cloudy , the other one was blue , clear , and slightly con cave ; its blue portion became nearly 12 millims. thick .
Reversal of current was soon followed by reversal of these effects .
The total bulV of the lower liquid increased during the experiment .
Exp. 16.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of potassic cyanide coloured blue by litmus ; upper one , 2 ozs .
potassic chloride dissolved* in 12 ozs .
of water .
Conduction copious .
Definite line produced in two minutes at about 2 millims. above the blue solution below cathode and the blue colour soon ascended to it .
Positive meniscus became definite and greenish .
The mass of lower liquid appeared to move in a direction opposite to the current .
Exp. 17.\#151 ; Lower liquid same as in last experiment ; upper one 4 ozs .
of a saturated solution of sodic carbonate and 8 ozs .
of water* Weak conduction .
The line at negative meniscus was more definite than that at positive one .
After reversal of current this effect was also reversed .
The line began to form at about 2 millims. above the blue liquid under anode .
The blue liquid appeared to move in a direction contrary to that of the current .
Exp. 18.\#151 ; Tubes 18 millims. long and 7*5 millims. bore .
Lower liquid as in last experiment ; upper one , 1 oz. of acid sulphate of sodium in 12 ozs .
of water .
Free conduction .
A line appeared at once in very dilute part of cyanide solution below anode , and on re-versing current it appeared immediately in the other tube .
Soon also solid salt formed at the positive meniscus ( probably potassic sulphate ) as if much downward electric diffusion of acid occurred there the colour also became weaker ; no salt formed at the very definite neg-a-tive meniscus By reversing the current a dilute space was produced between the deep blue coloured cyanide below and the light blue above near the line of negative meniscus .
The mass of lower liqnid appeared to move m the direction of the current , contrary to Xt of pritessic\#187 ; The ^ * \#166 ; of sodium In three minutes a hue ^ portion- i : Experiment No. 18 , anToM S'li^ot beW M " 12 ozs .
of water above .
Free conduct C ferrocyamde in half a minute in tube below anode S+ 1 efinite concave line in at once flat .
Reversed current a n Tr current\gt ; the line became minute .
Bine e " , " ur in hewlatTe \#166 ; I / Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
63 ' Jnfluence 'J v , Reversed current again , line in tube below anode produced BSHHg liquid a saturated solution of chloride of cobalt , \#163 ; 9 ^^Ivde nitric acid 1 to 10 .
Copious conduction .
Two linesupper one , ^ ^ millims. apart in the liquid of tube below cathode , soon *'m\ an(j formed one concave line .
The lower liquid appeared they meTfnthe direction of the current .
By reversal of current the to move ^ ^ ^ube under the cathode , and the coloured liquid ] in ||H| under anode became diffuse .
Previous to the line appear--11 \#166 ; \#166 ; of lower liquid under the cathode was convex ; when .
m grgt appeared that surface became straight , and when the line WHmdeveloped it was concave .
The liquid again appeared to ^ye in the same direction as the current .
Exp 22.\#151 ; A saturated solution of yellow potassic chromate below , and one of 3 ozs .
of sodic sulphate in 12 ozs .
water above .
Conduction free A line appeared in one minute , in liquid of tube below anode , at the verge of dilute part ; a second line also appeared but did not merge into the first ; a third line also came , but did not merge into the next one .
The solution in the tube below anode diffused upwards , and that in the other concentrated downwards , so that the mass appeared to move in a direction opposite to the current .
Reversed the current , similar effects occurred .
Exp. 23.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of perchlorate of nickel ; upper one dilute -nitric acid 1 to 10 .
Conduction moderate .
In two minutes the surface beneath cathode became perfectly flat and definite , and then concave .
Soon also a second line appeared 5 millims. below the other , with increased colour of solution beneath .
The liquid in the other tube became diffused in colour .
Reversed current , similar effects occurred-after about ten minutes .
Exp. 24\#151 ; Small tubes 16 millims. long and 10*5 millims. bore .
Lower liquid 1 volume of sulphuric acid to 2 of water , coloured by litmus ; upper one dilute sulphuric acid 1 in 20 , not coloured .
Conduction free .
Positive meniscus became a little more definite .
Ho other apparent effect .
Exp. 25 .
A saturated solution of cupric nitrate beneath and dilute nitric acid above .
Moderate conduction ( battery weak ) .
A definite line , concave and rising , developed in tube under cathode .
Reversed current , similar effect but feebler .
Exp. 26.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of sodic carbonate , coloured by litmus ; upper one dilute solution of the same salt , con-si$tag of 1 volume of the saturated solution and 12 volumes of water , ee e conduction .
The liquid in tube below anode diffused , that in e o er tube did not .
Mass of lower liquid did not appear to move m irection of the current , but ascended by diffusion at negative memscus .
No production of a visible line .
Dr. G. Gore .
Exp. 27.\#151 ; Small tubes each 14 millims. high , one 5 millims. bore , and the other 15 millims. Lower liquid 1 volume of sulphuric acid to 2 of water , coloured ; the upper one consisted of 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 20 of water .
Battery strong , current from broad to narrow tube .
In two minutes a line appeared in narrow tube about 2 millims. above red liquid ; the liquid rose a little in the tube .
Experiments Nos. 24 , 26 , and 27 show that it is difficult to obtain the definite line with liquids which differ only in strength .
Exp. 28.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper one , dilute sulphuric acid 1 in 8 .
Current from broad to narrow tube .
Two lines developed in narrow tube 3'0 millims. asunder ; the upper one concave and the lower one flat .
No line produced in broad tube .
Reversed current , lines in narrow tube disappeared , and the meniscus became diffused .
Two lines developed slowly in broad tube 1'75 millim. apart , the upper one concave in weakest part of the red liquid ; the lower one flat , and merged after a while into the other .
Exp. 29.\#151 ; Lower liquid same as in last experiment ; upper one dilute nitric acid , 1 volume of acid to 5 of water .
Current from broad to narrow tube .
Free conduction .
A straight line developed in narrow tube in about forty-five seconds .
Reversed current , a line \#166 ; commenced to appear in broad tube in about seven minutes , and was fully developed in about four minutes more .
Reversed again .
Straight line developed in narrow tube in about four minutes ; it quickly became concave , and the liquid rose in that tube as if moving in the direction of the current .
Exp. 30.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of sodic carbonate , coloured by litmus ; upper one dilute solution of the same salt , viz. , 1 oz. of the saturated solution and 12 ozs .
of water .
Current from broad to narrow tube .
Conduction very feeble , though battery was strong .
No line produced in either tube .
Liquid in narrow tube sank and became weaker in colour and diffused ; that in the broad tube rose slightly and became less diffused .
The mass of the liquid appeared to move in a direction opposite to that of the current .
Exp. 31.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of potassic cyanide , coloured by litmus ; upper one , 1 oz. of the same salt in 12 ozs .
water .
Current from broad to narrow tube .
Conduction feeble .
An imperfectly developed line produced in narrow tube .
The coloured liquid sank in the narrow tube as if moving opposite to the current .
Liquid surface was less definite in the broad tube than in the narrow one .
Exp. 32.\#151 ; Lower liquid , equal volumes of nitric acid and water , coloured ; upper one , 1 volume of nitric acid and .
10 of water .
Both meniscuses convex .
Current from broad to narrow tube .
Free conduction .
Imperfectly developed line in colourless portion of liquid in narrow tube in four minutes , 2 millims. above the red liquid .
The Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
65 red liquid rose in narrow tube as if moving in same direction as the current .
Remarhs.\#151 ; Experiments Nos. 31 and 32 also show the difficulty of producing definite lines in liquids which differ only in degree of concentration .
Exp. 33.\#151 ; Now employed a current from twelve Grove 's cells arranged in single series , until Experiment No. 37 .
Small tubes 15 millims. high and 8 millims. bore .
Lower liquid same as in last experiment ; upper one , 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water .
Very .copious conduction .
Deep curved line produced in tube beneath cathode , and three distinct lines in the other tube , the middle one of which merged itself into the upper one , and the two others remained .
The lines were not as definite as those produced by two liquids of more widely differing chemical composition .
Exp. 34.\#151 ; Small tubes 17 millims. high , 5*5 millims. bore .
Liquids same as in last experiment .
Copious conduction .
A definite line produced in colourless part of liquid in tube below cathode 1'75 millim. above coloured portion , and a very faint one produced in the other tube .
These lines disappeared during the stoppage of current , and reappeared whilst it was passing .
They disappeared in about two or three seconds and reappeared in about six seconds , and were the most definite in the tube under cathode .
This was verified several times .
3 .
Experiments with Treble Meniscus Apparatus .
In the following experiment a different apparatus was used .
A is a rectangular cell 20 centims. high , 12'5 centims. long , and 5'5 centims. wide , with front and back of polished plate glass , held together by clamp screws .
B and C are glass cups , fitted with lids and tubes as the previously described apparatus ( see p. 58 ) , B having one tube and C two ( each tube being 15 millims. high and 12 millims. bore ) .
D , E , and E are three similar glass tubes , E and F being provided with platinum electrodes , G and H. The cups were first filled with the coloured liquid and placed in the cell , and the latter filled as in the former apparatus .
The object of the experiment was to compare the \#166 ; effects of an up current and of a down current with ordinary diffusion without current in the small tube within D. Exp. 35.\#151 ; Lower liquid a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; upper one , 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water .
A curved line was quickly produced in each of the two tubes , highest up in the one under the anode ; that line remained in the colourless part of the liquid whilst the one under the cathode descended or merged quickly into the blue solution .
The blue solution rose in height under the cathode , as if the liquid moved in the same direction as the current .
Three permanent lines were produced in the tube under the cathode , the top one slightly concave , the two lower ones straight .
The line in colourless portion in the tube under anode rose slowly as the lower VOL. XXXII .
F Dr. G. Gore .
liquid increased in bulk .
No manifest difference of diffusion appeared during 1|- hours in the tube under the anode when compared with that in the tube with no current , excepting that the liquid had risen more in the former than in the latter , probably in consequence of the heat of conduction resistance .
Fie .
3 .
Exp. 36.\#151 ; The usual double meniscus apparatus ( see p. 58 ) was now used again , and a single series of twenty-five Grove 's elements was employed in this and the following experiments to No. 40 .
The meniscus tubes were 17 millims. high and 8 millims. bore .
Lower and upper liquids same as in last experiment .
Copious conduction .
Almost instantly a line with strong concavity downwards was produced , about 2 millims. above the blue surface of positive meniscus , and another in the diffused portion of blue liquid below the anode .
This was followed by the production of two less-defined lines in the blue portion of solution below cathode , and this was immediately succeeded by a strong wave-like motion at positive meniscus , and a projection upwards of portions of the blue liquid , and soon afterward large bubbles of gas or vapour were produced in the middle part of the positive meniscus in the position of the lowest line .
On reversing the current the gas was produced strongly in the meniscus under cathode , and continued a short time also at the other meniscus .
The Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
67 Violence of the action caused the liquids to mix , and required the ex-periment to be stopped .
The current was too strong for the persistent production of definite lines .
Exp. 37.\#151 ; Same tubes .
Lower liquid , 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 2 of water ; upper one , 1 vohime of nitric acid and 5 of water .
Very copious conduction .
A line with convexity downwards was immediately produced at each meniscus , and was soon followed by a strong action at each surface , strongest at the positive one , causing a streaming upwards of the lower liquid as if unequally heated , and a down rushing of the upper liquid , which destroyed the definite line .
Small bubbles of gas or vapour were also produced all over the surface of the positive meniscus only .
Exp. 38.\#151 ; Meniscus tubes 22 millims. high and 12 millims. wide .
Lower liquid a mixture of 2 measures of saturated solution of cupric sulphate and 1 measure of dilute sulphuric acid , consisting of 1 volume of acid to 2| volumes of water ; upper liquid , 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 7 of water .
Two lines were produced at the negative meniscus .
The violence of the action soon put a stop to the experiment .
Remarks.\#151 ; The stronger action at the positive meniscus than at the negative one in Experiments 37 and 38 was probably due to the more definite accumulation of acid and basic products in contiguous layers at the former than at the latter meniscus .
Exp. 39.\#151 ; Meniscus tubes , 17 millims. high and 8 millims. bore .
Lower liquid , 1 volume of nitric acid and 1 volume of water ; upper one , 1 volume of nitric acid and 5 of water .
Conduction copious .
A line with convexity downwards produced at once above positive meniscus , followed soon by one above negative meniscus ; this was succeeded by strong wavy movements at those surfaces , as if the effect of heat or * of liquids of different specific gravity .
Remarks on the Foregoing Experiments .
The phenomena in all the experiments are evidently very complex , and are a mixture of physical and chemical effects .
The effects to be explained consist chiefly of the production of the fine lines , and an apparent movement of the mass of the liquid .
The hypothesis which seems to be the most completely consistent with them is , that they are chiefly due to electrolytic changes , to differences of specific gravity , to ordinary liquid diffusion , to electric transfer and diffusion of liquids , and to heat of electric conduction resistance .
That also the surfaces of mutual contact of the two solutions , and of those solutions with the layers of liquid produced by electrolysis , act in some degree as electrodes and as diffusion diaphragms .
That by the electrolytic liberation and subsequent accumulation of electropositive and electronegative ingredients , and the transference of water by electric diffusion and its accumulation on the sides of the Dr. G. Gore .
surfaces of mutual contact of the liquids , various phenomena , such as layers of liquid of different specific gravities and adhesive powers , lines , layers of colour , alterations of forms of meniscus , downward liquid currents , \amp ; c. , are produced .
That also by the heat of conduction resistance evolved in the tubes in consequence of the reduced area of section of the solutions ; by the surfaces of the layers of liquid acting as electrodes ; and by the chemical union of acids and bases set free in contact with each other at the meniscuses , thermic expansion and streaming upwards of liquids , \amp ; c. , are produced .
In order to be able to understand the results of each separate experiment , these and the subsequent explanations require to be applied to the particular case .
The apparent transfer of mass may be partly explained upon the assumption that the colouring matter acts as a base towards acids , and as an acid towards bases , and is transferred accordingly , thus producing in the former case , by diminution of colour at the negative and increase of it at the positive end , an appearance of bodily transfer of the heavier liquid in the direction of the current .
Others may be explained upon the supposition that basic matter is set free at the liquid cathodes , and acid matter at the liquid anodes ; thus , with the lower liquid containing a salt ( such as cupric sulphate ) composed of a coloured base and a colourless acid , the blue basic matter accumulated at the liquid cathode , and the colourless acid at the liquid anode , and the liquid appeared to move in the direction of the current ; but with one containing a salt ( such as potassic chromate ) composed of a coloured acid and a colourless base , a reverse movement appeared to occur .
The downward movement of the meniscus under the cathode which occurs in some cases ( see Experiments 41 , 42 , and 43 ) , may probably be explained as follows :\#151 ; By the upward passage of the electric current and the meniscus acting as a kind of diaphragm , a greater volume of liquid was transferred by electric diffusion from the negative to the positive side of the division than in the reverse direction ( see " Experiments on Electric Osmose , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 208 , 1880 , vol. 31 , p. 253 ) .
This explanation , however , does not appear very consistent with the fact that the lines when first observed are not usually close to the coloured surface of the true meniscus , and do not separate farther from it by continuance of the current .
The influence of chemical composition of the liquids upon the formation of lines is illustrated on page 85 .
The greater the differences of specific gravity of the two liquids , the more easily were the lines produced .
The line occurs more frequently where the current goes from concentrated to dilute solutions of different substances than the reverse ; out of 42 lines , 28 were at the positive , and 14 at the negative meniscus .
The definiteness of the lines where the current passes upwards , and the indefiniteness usually produced where it passes Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
69 downwards through the meniscus , may be explained as followsIn the former case the layer of liquid accumulated above the meniscus by the united action of electrolysis , ordinary and electric diffusion , is of less specific gravity than the layer produced below it , and consequently the two layers do not as readily mix with each other ; but in the latter case the layer produced above the meniscus is usually of oreater specific gravity than that immediately below the meniscus , and the liquids more readily mix .
These circumstances probably also partly explain the greater frequency of the lines at the positive meniscus than at the negative one .
Numerous observations have shown as very probable that the upper line nearly always originates at some distance from the meniscus , and in some cases subsequently moves down to it , whilst in others it separates from it ( see Experiment No. 40 ) ; and in cases where the two liquids have somewhat mixed , and there is no definite meniscus , the line commences in an extremely dilute and nearly colourless stratum of the lower liquid .
The line sometimes commences nearly 5 millims. above the visibly coloured layer .
The apparent thickness of the lines is probably due to convexity .
The lines produced are usually straight with a moderate current , and curved with convexity downwards with a strong one .
The commonest case is , that the line at first is curved and barely visible , but gradually becomes definite and flat , and remains so .
The form of the meniscus is sometimes changed by the passage of the current ; this would be a necessary consequence of the alterations produced in the composition and adhesive properties of the layers of liquid on each side of the meniscus .
Each newly formed line also possibly acts as a meniscus , a liquid electrode , and a diffusion diaphragm .
A series of lines could probably only occur where each successive layer of liquid in ascending order was lighter than the one next below it , and heavier than the one next above it .
Such a series occurs more frequently at the meniscus beneath the cathode than in the one beneath the anode .
Whether the meniscus is rendered more permanent or not by temporary passage of an upward current through it , and the accumulation of ions against each of its surfaces , I have not definitely ascertained ; the free acid of the upper layer , and the free base of the lower one must , however , subsequently unite and form a third separating stratum close to it .
Time is an important element in the formation of the lines ; long continued action is , within certain limits , more favourable than a strong current to their production .
The first line usually appears in about one to five minutes , the second takes more time , especially if the current has been passing a long time in an opposite direction ; the length of time required for the line to appear in the opposite tube on reversal of current , depends upon the period during which the current Dr. G. Gore .
has been passing in the previous direction , the greater that period the longer must it pass in the other direction .
The greater difficulty of producing lines with two liquids , which differ only in degree of concentration ( see Experiments Nos. 24 , 26 , 27 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , and 39 ) , shows that the rapidity of production of the definite line is not proportional alone to the amount of current passing .
I did not ascertain for how long a period the line could be maintained .
The bulk , or form of the mass , of either the lower or upper solution , have little or no effect upon the phenomena , except so far as they affect the electric conduction resistance .
It was frequently observed that the lower liquid increased in bulk during an experiment , probably in consequence partly of heat of conduction resistance and partly because of ordinary diffusion transferring more liquid from weak to strong solution than from a strong to weak one , partly also because electric osmose is nearly always more copious from a dilute to a concentrated liquid than the reverse ( see " Experiments on Electric Osmose loc. cit. ' ) .
I have not ascertained whether the usually greater electric osmose is wholly or only partly due to ordinary diffusion .
4 .
Experiments with single Meniscus Apparatus .
In order to be able to more perfectly analyse the phenomena by reducing them to their simplest state , I employed in the following experiments an apparatus having only a single meniscus tube ( see fig. 4 ) .
Fig. 4 .
The outer vessel contained the heavier liquid and the inner cylinder Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
71 the lighter one , the latter being artificially coloured when necessary 1 T means of litmus .
The inner vessel was supported , and capable of being steadily raised by means of a vertical rack and pinion ( not shown in the sketch ) .
, .
... \ In using this apparatus ( after placing the electrodes m position ) , the small cylinder was first raised , and then the exact hulk ( viz. , 91 ozs .
) of solution was poured into the outer vessel .
The inner cylinder being next depressed until its lower end was level with the liquid the lighter solution was allowed to flow very slowly down the inner surface of that vessel , and the cylinder simultaneously depressed with great regularity ( by means of the rack and pinion ) , so as to keep the meniscus within the small tube , until the vessel was sufficiently immersed .
In cases where it was desirable to colour the heavier liquid instead of the lighter one , the meniscus tube projected into the lighter liquid instead of into the heavier one .
This apparatus is more easily managed than the one described on p. 58 ; the arrangement also offers less conduction resistance , and a less powerful battery suffices ; the phenomena obtained with it and requiring to be observed are less numerous , but at the same time less complete ; reversal of the current , however , usually enables t e remainder of the changes to be perceived .
In this apparatus also the phenomena at one meniscus are not liable to be neutralised , or in any other way interfered with by those at the other , this is particularly advantageous with regard to the visible movements .
By raising t e inner cylinder slightly and then depressing it , a definite meniscus can also be obtained at any time .
The following experiments were made with it by the aid of a current from twelve Grove 's cells m single SGriGS Exp. 40.\#151 ; Meniscus tube 17 millims. long , 7 millims. bore .
Outer liquid a saturated solution of sodic sulphate .
Inner and coloured one a one-fourth saturated solution of potassic chloride .
Current sent up the meniscus tube .
Conduction moderate .
A line produced at once .
The meniscus moved in the direction of the current .
Acid accumulated at the upper surface of the meniscus and produced a red layer of liquid about 1*75 millim. thick .
By reversing the direction of the current the meniscus descended at once about 2*5 millims. A line with its convexity upwards soon formed in the colourless portion about 4*0 millims. below the border of colour ; and another m the coloured portion .
There was thus three lines , the middle one being the original meniscus , now somewhat indefinite and dividing the coloured and colourless liquids .
By raising the cylinder until a little of t e coloured liquid escaped , and then depressing it , a clear definite meniscus was obtained , which soon became indefinite by the m ue of the downward current in the tube , and two other lines , one above and one below it , soon began to develop and separate further asunder , Dr. Gr .
Gore .
as if two distinct layers of liquid ( the upper one probably basic and the lower one acid ) were accumulated by electric action .
Exp. 41.\#151 ; Outer liquid , 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 7 volumes of water , sp. gr. of mixture 1 -16 ; inner one 5 volumes of a saturated solution oxalic acid , and 3 volumes of water , sp. gr. of mixture l-02 Conduction feeble .
Current sent up the meniscus tube .
The meniscus descended quickly , i.e. , in a direction opposite to that of the current .
No line ( in addition to that of the meniscus ) was formed .
On stopping the current , the meniscus ascended and , on renewing it , descended again .
Reversed direction of current .
No line produced !
Very little effect , the meniscus descended a little .
Exp. 42.\#151 ; Inner liquid , 1 volume of a saturated solution of ammonic sulphate , and 3 volumes of water ( sp. gr. of mixture T08 ) .
Outer one , a strong solution of potassic chloride ( sp. gr. 113 ) .
Current was sent up the meniscus tube .
Conduction moderate .
The meniscus descended rapidly .
A line developed in the colourless portion , near meniscus .
Under the influence of the current the coloured liquid crept down the sides of the meniscus tube ; a colourless portion of liquid of low density also formed at the under surface of meniscus and streamed downwards ; on stopping the current these effects ceased , and the meniscus rose .
By sending the current now down the tube !
a very definite and deeply curved line , with its convexity downwards , ' was produced .
The meniscus soon became flat and descended .
Similar streaming of liquid upwards from upper surface of meniscus now took place to that which had occurred downwards ; and the layer of liquid immediately upon meniscus , which was previously pink , now became blue , showing that the meniscus acted to some extent like an electrode , in causing the liberation of ions at its surface .
Stopped the current ; the meniscus became indefinite .
Renewed it ; the meniscus became definite .
Reversed it ( i.e. , sent it up the tube ) ; the colourless liquid rose in the tube , and the meniscus was very definite .
Exp. 43.\#151 ; Inner liquid , 1 volume of a saturated solution of sodic hydrate and 3 volumes of water ( sp. gr. T07 ) .
Outer one , a saturated solution of sodic carbonate ( sp. gr. 111 ) .
Current sent up meniscus tube .
Conduction very moderate .
The meniscus descended at once , and a line was produced , with its convexity upwards , in colourless portion close to the colour .
Similar wavy appearances just below the meniscus , and falling of colourless stream as in Experiment No. 42 .
On stopping the current the meniscus rose and became indefinite and the other line faded away .
A definite meniscus was now made by raising and lowering the large tube ; and the current was then reversed , i.e. , sent down the tube .
A line was soon produced with its convexity downwards , in the deep blue liquid ; and another in the colourless portion , about 1*75 millim. below meniscus .
There was now no wavy appearance or streaming down in the colourless Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
13 liquid .
On stopping the current the convex line ceased and the meniscus was flat .
By again reversing the current and sending it down the tube , the liquid descended at once , and two lines were formed , one in the colourless liquid , and the other at the edge of the blue : wavy and falling appearances also occurred again .
A layer of liquid of deep blue colour formed upon and above the meniscus .
Remarks.\#151 ; I have not found the cause of the reversal of the movement of the meniscus in Experiments Nos. 41 , 42 , and 43 .
Exp. 44.\#151 ; Inner liquid , 1 volume of saturated solution of sodic carbonate and 3 volumes of water ( sp. gr. 1*09 ) .
Outer one , a strong solution of ammonic nitrate , slightly acid ( sp. gr. 1*19 ) .
Current sent up the tube .
Conduction very moderate .
Definite line produced .
The meniscus did not ascend or descend .
A layer of red colour was produced in the lowest layer of blue liquid , and around that liquid , , showing that the acid set free above the meniscus from the electrolysis of the liquid ascended by capillary action between the blue liquid and the tube .
Stopped the current ; no such change occurred .
Reversed its direction ( i.e. sent it down the tube ) .
The blue colour became strongly curved with its convexity downwards , the layer of red liquid gradually disappeared , and the meniscus slightly descended in tho direction of the current .
A wavy appearance of the colourless liquid close to meniscus and streaming of it downwards was produced , as in a previous experiment , as if a heavier liquid was set free at the under surface of the meniscus by electrolysis of the outer solution .
Remarks.\#151 ; The results of these experiments with the single tube apparatus , may ( most of them ) be explained in a similar manner ( see p. 67 , eb seq. ' ) to the previous ones .
They also show that the movements of the meniscus , up or down , depend upon the particular combination of liquids employed , as well as upon the direction of the current : for instance , in Experiment No. 44 , no such movement took place ; whilst in Experiments Nos. 40 , 41 , 42 , and 43 , it occurred freely .
The comparatively quick movements of the meniscus in these latter experiments and the circumstances that the contiguous liquid surfaces appear to act as electrodes , favour the view that the movement is partly a result of pressure , and that a somewhat similar movement by the influence of an electric current , takes place to a small extent with miscible liquids in glass tubes as occurs with immiscible ones ( such as-mercury and an aqueous solution ) in a capillary electroscope .
5 .
Transfer of the Mass of Solution .
All the foregoing experiments show that the apparent movement of mass and production of definite lines , is not confined to capillary tubes .
With the double meniscus apparatus , the lower liquid appeared to move in the direction of the current in Experiments Nos. 2 , 12 , 18 , 19 , 21 ( 25 ) , 29 , 32 , and 35 ; and in the opposite direction in Dr. G. Gore .
Experiments Nos. 5 , 8 , 16 , 17 ( 26 ?
) , 30 , and 31 .
It may be remarked respecting this , that in the whole of the latter class , one of the solutions consisted either of sodic carbonate , potassic cyanide , or yellow chromate of potassium , whilst in the former class the only experiment in which an alkaline liquid occurred was No. 18 .
The apparent movement of the mass in some of this latter class has been already partly explained ( see p. 68 , seq. ) .
With the single meniscus apparatus , the meniscus moved in the .direction of the current in Experiment 40 ; and in the opposite direction ( with certain variations ) in Experiments Nos. 41 , 42 , and 43 ; whilst in Experiment No. 44 , the meniscus moved very slightly .
The direction of movement was occasionally reversed during an experiment ( see Experiments Nos. 41 , 42 , and 43 ) .
In Experiments Nos. 40 , 41 , 42 , and 43 , the movements were quick , as if they resulted from pressure .
The slower movements have been already partly explained ( see p. 68 , et seq. ) .
In order to ascertain more definitely whether there existed a transfer of the body of the heavier liquid due to the passage of the current in the constricted portion of the solution , and also to compare the effects obtained with those recorded of the movement of water by an .electric current , as discovered by Armstrong ( see " Phil. Mag. , " vol. xxxiii , 1843 , pp. 194\#151 ; 202 ) , and investigated by Quincke and -Jurgensen ( see Wiedemann 's " Galvanismus , " vol. i , 1872 , p. 585 , or Miller 's " Chemical Physics , " 4th Edition , p. 530 ) , I employed the following apparatus , fig. 5 .
A and B are two glass gas chimneys supported by two transverse and perforated pieces of wood C , joined by screws .
D and E are two T-pieces of glass tube , similar , open at all their ends , and joined together by means of a very short india-rubber bung F , and kept from separating by means of two binding wires G , H. These tubes are fixed tightly in A and B by means of perforated india-rubber bungs I and J , their lower ends being closed by perforated corks K and L , through which pass two very narrow glass tubes M and N , open at .their ends , and connected by a long vulcanized india-rubber tubing O , of very small internal diameter ( about 2 or 3 millims. ) .
The intended use of the india-rubber tube was to allow of a more ready flow of the liquid in the tube P. The bung F is perforated , and a small glass tube P , open at both ends , fits tightly in it .
Q and R are two large electrodes of sheet platinum , with terminal wires S and T connected with a battery consisting of a single series of twelve Grove 's elements .
The vessels are filled throughout with liquid up to the level of the line U and V ( W and X are dotted lines , indicating something which appertains to subsequent experiments ) .
In using the apparatus , a liquid was employed containing a very .small amount of minute suspended particles of precipitated sulphur , Influence of Voltaic Currents the Diffusion of Liquids .
75 which had been rubbed up with it , taking care not to use sufficient to block up the finer tubes .
After filling the apparatus with the liquid , the tube O was wound tightly upon a narrow cylinder to expel bubbles of air , and then unwound .
The apparatus being now placed -so that the tube P was in a strong light , the liquid in that tube was -closely examined by means of an eyeglass .
As soon as the flow of liquid ( arising from inequality of level ) ceased , the wires S and T were connected with a voltaic battery , and the liquid in the tube again closely watched , in order to detect any flow , both whilst the tube 0 remained open throughout , and also whilst closed , by means of a pinch-tap .
With the tube P 15millims .
long , and 13 millim. internal diameter , and the apparatus filled with a mixture of 19 measures of water , and 1 of pure sulphuric acid , not the slightest horizontal movement Dr. G. Gore .
of the liquid in the tube could he detected , either during the passage of the current , or immediately afterwards , the only visible movement was that of vertical currents of the liquid outside the tube , evidently caused by change of specific gravity , due to heat of electric conduction resistance produced within the tube .
In three farther trials , three solutions consisting of 5 , 55 , and 255 grs. of potassic cyanide , dissolved in 12 ozs .
of water , were employed , but with less effect than in the previous experiment .
To further determine whether there existed a movement of mass due to actions taking place at the mutual contact surfaces of the liquids , I made some experiments with two liquids in the apparatus , the mode of operating being as follows:\#151 ; A heavier coloured liquid ( containing suspended sulphur ) was poured by means of a long-necked funnel into the tubes D , E , and P , until after expulsion of all air from O , the meniscus of the liquid stood at the level indicated by the dotted lines W and X. Corks ( previously fixed on the ends of platinum wires ) were now placed rather tightly in the upper ends of D and E , the two electrodes inserted , and the lighter colourless liquid poured simultaneously into A and B , until the level of liquid was exactly the same in each .
After all flow of liquid in P had ceased , the corks were withdrawn with extreme slowness , so as not to cause the two liquids to mix at their surface of mutual contact .
The further details of manipulation were the same as those previously described .
In a first experiment with two liquids , the lower one consisted of a saturated solution of cupric sulphate , containing suspended particles of sulphur , and the upper one of a mixture of 19 volumes of water and 1 of pure sulphuric acid , and the glass tube P was of the dimensions already given .
No movement of the solution in or near P , except those already mentioned , could be detected .
In a second experiment , the lower liquid consisted of 1 measure of strong pure nitric acid , and 7 measures of a saturated solution of cupric nitrate ; and the upper one of a mixture of 1 volume of pure nitric acid , and 6 of water .
The glass tube P was 15 millims , long , and 2'3 millims. internal diameter .
The results were similar to the previous one .
The small tube P was now removed , and a very thin disk of talc , having a minute hole about l'O millim. diameter in its centre , was employed in its stead .
The disk was fitted water-tight by means of varnish .
A current from twenty-five Grove 's cells in single series was now used ; and a single liquid consisting of 1 measure of sulphuric acid , and 2^ measures of water was employed .
Free conduction occurred , and large bubbles of steam were produced on each side of the hole .
The current was reversed in direction several times ; the tube 0 being occasionally closed .
No translation of the mass due to the current could be detected , the only movements proInfluence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
77 ^need appeared to be due to the heat of conduction resistance and the explosive action of the bubbles of steam .
In another experiment I employed two liquids and a current from twelve Grove 's cells in single series , the lower liquid being a mixture of 3 volumes of saturated solution of cupric sulphate and 2 volumes of a mixture of 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 2^ volumes of water ; and the upper one of 1 volume of sulphuric acid and 7 volumes of water .
The action at the two meniscuses produced no visible flow of liquid through the hole in the talc .
From these results , from considerations already stated ( see p. 68 , .et seq. ) , and also from the circumstance that in Armstrong 's experiment pure water ( a liquid of great electric conduction resistance ) was necessary , and in the experiments of other investigators the flow of liquids required badly conducting liquids , and either porous diaphragms or tubes of capillary diameter , I conclude that the bodily flow of the unchanged mass of the heavier liquid in my experiments is , to a large extent , only apparent .
The considerable length of time also required for the apparent flow is consistent with this conclusion .
6 .
Experiments with Capillary Tubes .
In order to test the question whether a similar to-and-fro movement by an electric current takes place with miscible liquids in capillary tubes , as occurs with mercury and an aqueous solution in a capillary electroscope , and also to ascertain whether the quicker movements of the liquids in Experiments Nos. 40 , 41 , 42 , and 43 was of this kind , I made a number of experiments with a small apparatus similar to fig. 4 ( see p. 70 ) , having ( in place of the inner cylinder and tube ) a capillary tube , fig. 6 ( containing the lighter liquid ) immersed in the Fio .
6 heavier solution , the lighter liquid being very strongly coloured with 4 ' mauve " aniline dye .
The electric currents employed were from a Dr. G. Gore .
single cell of copper and platinum in dilute sulphuric acid , and from a single series of twelve Grove 's elements .
The electrodes were of platinum , and the capillary tube was capable of being raised or lowered through very minute distances by means of the rack and pinion .
Tubes of various internal diameters were used , varying from 1 % -6 , '45 , to '35 millim. The only pair of solutions employed consisted of a one-fourth saturated solution of potassic chloride as the lighter liquid , and a saturated one of sodic sulphate as the heavier one ( as in Experiment No. 40 ) .
The currents were only continued during periods of less than half a minute at the utmost .
With a tube 1 millim. diameter , and the electric current from either source , or in either direction , no movement of the meniscus was visible .
With a tube '6 millim. diameter , or with one '45 millim. diameter , either an upward current or a downward one from the twelve cells caused a downward motion of the meniscus , strongest with the upward current .
The motion was more rapid than in the experiments with the usual wider meniscus tubes of this research , and less rapid than with mercury in a capillary electroscope ; it appeared to be due partly to heat of conduction resistance ( producing expansion ) and partly to electric convection .
( N.B.\#151 ; Electric osmose would have produced a more rapid movement of the meniscus upward by a downward current , than of downward movement by an upward one .
) Solid particles suspended in the liquid were accelerated in their velocity of falling by the passage of the current .
The meniscus did not continue very definite , and no lines ( if any existed ) were sufficiently distinct to be perceived .
The meniscus also showed no return movement on stopping the current .
( In this respect it differed from the movement with mercury , \amp ; c. ) I could not ascertain that the meniscus influenced the motion ; the latter continued the same when the meniscus was at the extreme end of the tube as when it was within it .
It is probable that the movements were to some extent of the same kind as those observed by Armstrong , Quincke , and .Tiirgensen ( see p. 74 ) , and would have occurred with one liquid alone .
The current from the single cell had either no effect , or else a barely perceptible one similar to that produced by the one from the Grove 's battery .
With a tube *35 millim. bore , a very slight downward movement was produced by the upward current from the battery .
' The downward current had the same effect , but in a less degree .
No effect was observed with the current from the single cell .
From the comparative slowness of the movement and the great strength of electric current necessary to produce it , I consider that nearly the whole of the movement of two miscible liquids in capillary tubes is very different from that occurring with mercury and solution in such tubes , The tubes , however , used with mercury are usually of much smaller diameter .
Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
7 it The results obtained with the single meniscus apparatus , and with the capillary tubes , support the conclusion that there is a small amount of real transfer of the bulk of the liquid otherwise than by diffusion .
The rapidity of such movement appeared to vary , being slowest in wide tubes with feeble electric current , quicker in the single meniscus tube and in the capillary tube experiments , but in no case was it as rapid as the movement of the mercury in a capillary electroscope .
The conditions of motion observed in these cases differ , however , considerably from those in the experiments of Armstrong , Quincke , Jiirgensen , and Wiedemann .
In their experiments badly conducting liquids only were used , and no movement occurred if good conducting solutions were employed ; in mine it only took place in the-latter liquids .
7 .
Relation to Electric Osmose .
In order to be enabled to judge more correctly respecting the influence of " electric osmose , " I made a number of experiments-similar to that performed by Porrett ( " Annals of Phil. , ' vol. viii , p. 74 ) .
The results of these experiments have been made the subject of a separate paper ( see " Experiments on Electric Osmose , " loc. for more convenient reference by future investigators .
As in all those experiments ( numbering 68 ) except one , the liquid was observed to flow in the same direction as the positive electricity , and showed no signs of reversal of movement with solutions of potassic cyanide , yellow potassic chromate , acid chromate of potassium , or sodic carbonate , I again conclude that the apparent movement of the lower liquids in my experiments with a double meniscus apparatus is of a considerably different character from that known as " electric osmose .
" I also made experiments of electric osmose with the same pairs of liquids as those used in the single meniscus apparatus in Experiments Hos .
40 to 44 .
The electric currents were sent from strong to weak solution in the osmose experiments corresponding to Nos. 40 , 41 , 42 , and 44 , and from weak to strong in that agreeing with No. 43 .
In each case the greatest osmotic transfer occurred in the direction of the current , and was strong in No. 42 and weak in No. 44 .
These directions of movement do not agree with those obtained in the-experiments referred to , and the results indicate that the direction of the diffusion at a liquid meniscus is largely affected by the presence-of a diaphragm .
8 .
Influence of Form and Dimensions of the Meniscus Tube .
Experiments Nos. 40 to 44 were repeated with a meniscus tube of the form of an hour-glass ( fig. 7 ) , and having an internal narrowest diameter of about 3 millims. , but no new results were obtained .
Dr. G. Gore .
Fig. 7 .
One influence of the dimensions of the meniscus tubes consisted in .enabling1 a suitable magnitude of liquid surface to be presented to the action of the current ; a sufficiently narrow tube in relation to the power of the current was necessary in order to enable the effects to be produced quickly .
Another effect of narrow tubes was to produce conduction resistance , and thereby give rise to evolution of heat .
The dimensions of the meniscus tube have also several effects , some of which appear to be independent of the meniscus itself ; for instance , the narrower the tube the greater is the ratio of surface of tube to the mass of the liquid , and consequently the relatively greater are the effects due to surface action , such as the quick mechanical movements of the mass due to electric convection .
9 .
Influence of Molecular Structure of the Liquids .
That the relatively different molecular structures of the opposed liquids lies at the basis of the phenomena , and are the static conditions which permit the uniform cause ( viz. , the electric current ) to produce different effects at the surfaces of contact , to those it produces in the homogeneous mass of each liquid is evident , becanse the special local effects ( such as lines and layers ) were usually more conspicuous in proportion to the degree of physical and chemical differences of the two solutions ; for instance , they were more difficult to produce and more feeble when two portions of the same acid , but of different degrees of dilution , were employed ( as in Experiments Nos. 24 , 27 , 32 , 33 , and 39 ) , than when one of the liquids was a dilute acid and the other a solution of a heavy metallic salt .
10 .
Influence of Cohesion , Viscosity , Specific Gravity , Adhesion , Ordinary Diffusion , 8fc .
, of the Liquids .
The different degrees of cohesion , fluidity , viscosity , and specific gravity of the liquids , probably all affect the phenomena ; the greater the difference of specific gravity between the two liquids the more easily were the lines produced , and the more distinct usually were the chief phenomena .
Some liquids , however , such as syrupy solution of Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
81 phosphoric acid , by being too viscous , as well as badly conducting , prevented the effect .
Both the absolute and relative degrees of adhesion of the two liquids to the tubes , especially in very narrow ones , must also affect the results .
In a separate paper on the " Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 209 , 1881 , I have shown that adhesion performs an important part ; and that mercury flows more rapidly from a , capillary glass tube into dilute sulphuric acid when an electric current is passing in the same direction than when it is not passing ; and it would be desirable , therefore , to examine the influence of adhesion upon the rates of flow of electrolytes ( as well as of mercury ) through tubes of glass ( and other material ) whilst under the influence of an electric current .
That the phenomena of lines and movement of mass of liquid in these experiments are not wholly capillary is proved by the circumstance that they have been produced in tubes of as large a diameter as 15 millims. Capillary action , however , affects the results ( see P. 78 ) .
Assuming that the explanation I have offered of the phenomena ( see p. 67 , et seq. ) is correct , ordinary diffusion is affected during the passage of the current , the whole of the molecules being subjected to electric influence , which probably aids diffusion at the one meniscus and neutralizes it at the other .
A result obtained in the experiments on electric osmose , viz. , that the liquid flow is more rapid when the direction of electric osmose coincides with that of ordinary osmose , than when it is opposite to it , supports the conclusion that ordinary diffusion ( although suspended ) influences the results .
In Experiment No. 15 the dilute nitric acid diffused into the cupric bromide ; this diffusion was by the influence of the current decreased at the negative meniscus and increased at the positive one ; an opposite effect to that exerted by the current upon water .
The interference of ordinary diffusion might probably be largely obviated by using liquids of equal specific gravity .
The less rapid osmose which occurs where an electric current passes from a strong ( through a diaphragm ) to a weak solution , than where it passes in the reverse direction , is not likely to be due to difference of chemical action , because at each junction of the liquids in the cells divided by porous partitions ( see " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 253 ) , there was opposed equivalent quantities of acid and bases set free by electrolysis , and therefore equal chemical action .
Much more investigation , however , remains yet to be made in this part of the subject .
Although the experimental evidence of an influence of the current upon ordinary diffusion without a porous diaphragm is not extensive , it is sufficient in Experiments Nos. 40 , 41 , 42 , and 43 to prove that diffusion of liquids is greatly affected by the passage of a current , and that it VOL. XXXII .
g Dr. G. Gore .
varies with the nature of the liquids and .
with other circumstances not yet determined .
The electric current , by liberating electrolytic products at the two surfaces of each meniscus , must also further affect ordinary diffusion and electric osmose at the meniscus .
11 .
Influence of Miscibility of the Liquids .
It would be interesting to examine the influence of non-miscible electrolytes upon each other under the usual conditions in the single meniscus apparatus , if a pair of suitable ones could be found .
I attempted to pass a current from a single series of twenty-five Grove 's cells through two immiscible liquids lying in contact with each other in a U glass tube 10 millims. diameter .
One liquid consisted of water saturated with ether and mercuric chloride , and the other of ether saturated with water and that salt .
hTo perceptible current passed , or other visible effect was produced .
12 .
Influence of Light , Heat , and Temperature .
I have not observed that the phenomena are in any way related to the influence of luminous rays ; nevertheless , as light is well known to affect chemical union , it is not unreasonable to suppose that it influences ( though in a very much less degree ) mechanical mixture .
The influence of temperature of the liquids upon the phenomena has not been experimentally examined , partly because no valuable addition of knowledge was likely to accrue , and partly because rise of temperature is a disturbing condition in the case , and it would be difficult to manipulate with heated liquids .
The effects of heat of conduction resistance interfere in nearly every instance with the detection and accurate observation of the other phenomena , especially in cases where a powerful current circulates .
By the influence of such heat , the lower liquid expands , and thus appears to increase in volume by diffusion .
When the temperature is higher , wavy lines are produced at the meniscuses , especially at the positive one , and as the heat increases , streams of upflow of the lower solution or of downflow of the upper one occur ; and finally , bubbles of steam or gas are produced at the positive meniscus , and stop the experiment .
The heat evolved appears to be mostly at the contiguous liquid surfaces , probably because acids and bases are transferred there by the current and chemically unite ; it is greatest at the positive meniscus , because the relative densities of the acid and basic layers there tend to localise the effect .
13 .
Influence of Electric Conditions .
With the exception of ordinary liquid diffusion , adhesion , and capillary action , all the effects are primarily due to the electric current , and therefore dependent upon conduction and magnitude of flow .
The chief locality of action is at and near the meniscuses , apparently also to Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
83 less extent at the surface of contact of the liquids with the meniscus tube ; but exactly in what manner the current operates at the contact surfaces is a difficult question .
The effects of the current are both physical and chemical .
A uniform cause or homogeneous force ( such as an electric current is commonly supposed to be ) , whilst acting under uniform conditions is usually considered to produce uniform immediate effects .
In the present case , however , it appears as if one portion of the electric current produces direct chemical decomposition of the solution ; a second immediately disassociates water from saline matter by diffusion , and a third produces direct electric convection , or simple mechanical movement of the liquid ; or the diffusion may be viewed as a result of electric.convection .
Either then the total current of uniform property acts not under uniform conditions , but in several different ways , producing effects which require different degrees of electromotive force to produce them , or the current consists of several portions of electricity of different electromotive force .
The supposition that these different effects require currents of different electromotive foree to produce them , is in harmony with the generalised idea , that instances of mechanical union , or mere solution of solids in liquids , merges into those of definite chemical union by insensible degrees , and the two classes thus form an unbroken series , ranging from those of liquids which mix in every degree with each other , to those of the most powerful chemical combinations , in which the ingredients unite only in rigidly definite proportions .
With regard to the purely physical effects , viz. , electric osmose and transfer of mass , we may reasonably refer them to electric convection attending electric discharge between surfaces in opposite electrical states , the charged condition of those surfaces being dependent upon the special local resistance to electric transfer which always exists in greater or less degree at the surfaces of contact of bodies of different physical and chemical structure .
In capillary tubes the charged surface of the glass becomes also an important circumstance .
The unequal transfer of acids and bases must also affect the results .
Acids always travel in greater proportion towards the anode than the metals to which they have been united move towards the cathode , provided the solutions are not kept quite neutral .
And with regard to the electro-chemical effects , ions are probably liberated at every surface of junction of liquids of sufficiently different composition through which the current passes .
A sufficient difference of property of the two bodies ( in addition to liquidity and a sufficient electromotive power of the current ) appears to be a necessary condition of electrolysis ; with lesser differences probably only electric osmose is produced .
( I have not examined the effects of electric currents passing in oblique directions through a surface of contact of Dr. G. Gore .
two solutions of equal conductivity but of different specific gravities .
) ' The layers of liquid on each side of each meniscus are manifestly results of electrolysis , and the lines are probably due to them ; but why a line should originate in the midst of a homogeneous liquid , at a distance from a definite meniscus and approach ( or be approached by ) the meniscus , and merge into it , I have not ascertained .
Sometimes , however , the lines separate from the meniscus ( see Experiment No. 40 ) .
Although the chain of conducting particles from one metallic electrode to the other was as perfect with the two liquids as with one , there existed a difference of conditions at the surfaces of liquid contact to those existing in the mass , and one effect of this variation is a sudden difference of resistance to electric transfer at that locality .
As also the amount of electric diffusion is greater when the current passes in one direction than in the other in experiments of electric osmose , we may reasonably predict as probable that the conduction resistance to currents of opposite direction passing through such an arrangement would be similarly unequal .
It is probable also that the amounts of this per saltum resistance and difference of resistance , would vary with every different pair of liquids .
These are subjects of further investigation .
As a perfect meniscus acts to some extent as an electrode , an imperfect one must do the same , though in a less degree .
The positive one ( or that below the cathode ) acts more perfectly in this respect than one below an anode , because the action of electrolysis tends to maintain it , and even make it more definite .
It would further appear that every inequality of composition , or of internal structure of the liquid in the path of the current must also act to some extent as an electrode ; and if this be correct , not only the meniscus proper , but also the surfaces of the layers of acid and basic products of electrolysis next the masses of the two solutions must also act in like manner ; but this is only a supposition for future examination .
As I have not been able to obtain any visible lines or movements of the liquids with an electric current of insufficient power to produce electrolysis , and electrolysis will reasonably account for several of the phenomena , I conclude that electrolysis is not merely a concomitant circumstance , but acts also as a cause .
The converse phenomena , viz. , the influence of electric currents on the diffusion of liquids , has been made the subject of separate experiments ( " Electric Currents produced by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 296 ) .
I have not searched for any new action of magnetism upon the phenomena of lines , movements of liquids , \amp ; c. 14 .
Influence of Chemical Action .
As purely chemical action appears to be only a coincident and not a Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope .
85 fundamental part of the phenomena , the inferences to be drawn from it are probably less important .
Chemical action is a constant concomitant in the case ; it always took place , 1st , by electrolysis , 2nd , by contact of liberated ions ; and , 3rd , occasionally by contact of the original liquids .
It sometimes occurs at the meniscus previous to the passage of the current .
As also , by the influence of the current , acids and bases are liberated at the contact surfaces , and as in the foregoing numerous experiments with the double and single meniscus apparatuses , the kind of solutions in mutual contact have been found to largely influence the phenomena of the lines , \amp ; c. , so the layers of new compounds formed by electro-chemical action probably also have similar effects .
From the results of the experiments with the meniscus apparatuses it also appears that the lines may be produced with almost every possible chemical combination of electrolytes ; for instance , where the current goes from concentrated to dilute solution , whether from acid salt to acid ( as in Experiments Nos. 1 , 2 , 3 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 14 , 15 , 19 , 21 , 23 , 25 , 28 , 29 , 35 , 36 , and 38 ) ; one acid to another ( Experiments Nos. 37 and 41 ) ; one alkaline salt to another ( Experiment No. 17 ) ; an acid salt to a neutral one ( Experiments Nos. 4 , 13 , and 22 ) ; a neutral salt to an alkaline one ( Experiments Nos. 5 and 44 ) ; an alkaline salt to a neutral one ( Experiments Nos. 16 and 20 ) ; one neutral salt to another ( Experiments Nos. 40 and 42 ) ; or from an alkaline salt to an alkali ( Experiment No. 43 ) ; but not so readily from a strong solution of an acid to the same diluted ( Experiments Nos. 24 , 27 , 32 , 33 , 34 , and 39 ) ; nor from a strong one of an alkaline salt to the same diluted ( Experiments Nos. 26 , 30 , and 31 ) .
A possible relation of the apparent movement of the mass of the liquid to the chemical composition of the two liquids has been already indicated ( see p. 68 ) .
" Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope .
" By Gf .
Gobe , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 23 , 1880 .
Read January 6 , 1881 .
In a communication " On the Capillary Electroscope " ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 32 ) , I have described various details necessary to be attended to in the construction and use of a modified form of that apparatus , and I now give an account of an investigation I have made of the phenomena of the movements of the mercury in such instruments .
A research I formerly made , " On the Movements of Liquid Metals and Electrolytes in the Voltaic Circuit *.*(** Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 10 , p. 235 ) , throws additional light upon the subject .
Some of the phenomena arising out of this research have ,

