]\gt ; PHILOSOPHICAL TRAN S I. A Chemical Inquiry into thoe of WILLIAM MARCET , .D .
, F.R. Received June 3 , \mdash ; Read , 1889 .
A LOVE of mountaineering is a natural inducement to inquire into the influence of altitude on the phenomena of respiration , and I giving attention to that subject in 1875 ; my first results , however , were not to the Royal Society till the month of March , 1878 .
In September , 1877 , Dr. A. ] BMOD , then Mr. MEBMOD , had ributed to the " " Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles an interesting paper on this same subject , which he had treated in its chemical aspect , much in the same way as I had done , The title of his paper is " " Nouvelles recherches physiologiques sir l'influence de la depression atmospherique sir l'habitant des montagnes The following are the conclusions he arrives ( 1 .
) The uninterrupted and prolonged stay at increasing a]titudes is attended with a greater frequency of the pulse .
( 2 .
) The uninterrupted and prolonged stay at 1100 metres above the sea level is not attended with any acceleration of the respiratory movements .
From these two laws the author concludes that\mdash ; ( 3 .
) The mean fraction the relation between the respiratory frequency and the pulsations of the heart , becomes smaller and smaller on removing to stations increasing in altitude .
( 4 .
) The temperature of the body does not appear markedly diminished by removing from a dwelling at 142 metres to another at 1100 metres .
28.4 .
90 ( 5 .
) Instead of an increase , there is rather a reduction in the weight of the air breathed by removing higher and higher above the sea level .
( 6 .
) The absolute and relative quantity of carbonic acid exhaled from the lungs increa , ses into higher regions , although there be no in the respiratory ency ; at the same time the weight of the air breathed is reduced .
Dr. MERMOD'S investigations were mdertaken at two stations only , one of them being Strasburg , at altitude of 142 metres , and the other Ste. Croix , at 1100 metres ; the difference of altitude amounting therefore to the small of 958 metres .
Thirty-five experiments were made at Strasburg , and thirty-two at Ste. Croix , on the volumes of air breathed and of carbonic acid expired .
The mean barometric pressure was mm. at Strasburg , and mm. at Ste. Croix , giving a difference of mm. The extent of the inquiry appears hardly sufficient to determine the influence of atmospheric pressure o11 the chemical phenomena of respiration , but the work is evidently well done , and I feel called upon to discuss it in some of its bearings .
On , point I with Dr. MERMOD , that there is a reduction in the weight of air breathed within a given time at altitudes , and depending on atmospheric pressure alone .
My experiments , which extend to altitudes of 3300 and 4000 metres , some of them made under circumstances doing away with the influence ofcold , certainly yield that result .
I have expressed this law by stating that there is , at increasing altitudes , a reduction in volume of air breathed , reduced to and 760 mm. Dr. MERMOD'S sixth and last conclusion deals with the amount of carbonic acid exhaled from the lungs within a given time at different altitudes .
At was disposed to conclude with him , that more carbonic acid is expired as the atmospherio pressure falls from increasing altitude , as I found that more carbonic acid was exhaled per minute in the mountains than in the plains ; but it occurred to me that the increased cold experienced on ascending in the Alps was not unlikely to exert an influence on this phenomenon , and that the excess of carbonic acid expired in Alpine districts might be due to cold and not to .
My experiments , made on the peak of Tenerife , in order to clear up this point , showed conclusively that when no cold is experienced on reaching higher levels , there is no increase in the amount of carbonic acid expired within a given time .
Dr. MERMOD does not lose of the question of temperature , as he records the temperature of the atmosphere at the time of every experiment , and he finds that the mean of all the temperatures observed was the same at both stations .
At his lower station , his mean temperature is C. , and at his higher station , C. He thus disposes of any influence due to differences of temperature .
The effect of food is done away with by making the experiments between 7 and 8 o'clock in the morning , and before breakfast .
The barometer reading is recorded at the time of every experiment , but it is much to be regretted that the author quotes no hygromebric observations .
THE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RESPIRATION .
By considering together the temperatures of the air when the rent experiments were made , nd corresponding weights ofcarbonic acid expired , as stated in Dr. Tables , a very remarkable influence of the temperature at the higher station will be found .
In order to show this , I have extracted from Dr. MERMOD'S paper , and placed opposite each other in a tabular form , the mean weights of carbonic acid } ) ired at both stations for each degree of temperature\mdash ; from to 1 to and SO First of all we observe that , as the temperature increases at the lower station , the weight of carbonic acid expired per minute as a rule falls , while ab the higher station the weight of carbonic acid expired per minute is nearly the same at every temperature .
If , on the other hand , the weights of carbonic acid expired at Strasburg and Ste. Croix be compared with each other for similar , we find no increase of carbonic acid at .
Croix for the lowest temperature , although a considerable increase , amounting to per cent. , at the highest temperature .
By collecting the temperatures and corresponding weights of carbonic acid into two the group for the lowest temperatures will give an increase of carbonic acid of only per cent. for Ste. Croix ( the highest station ) , while the group for the highest temperatures will show an excess of carbonic acid of per cent. for that same station .
The analysis of the tabJes in another form yields a similar concIusion .
I have as follows the figures for carbonic acid corresponding to the ten lowest and ten highest temperatures for each station:\mdash ; It follows from this Table that the experiments made at the ten lowest temperatures at Strasburg yield an increase of carbonic acid of per cent. over the experiments made at the ten highest temperatures .
This is just what might have been expected from the effect of the cold .
At Ste. Croix , however , the conclusion is very different , as that station there is a slight excess of per cent. carbonic acid for the experiments made at the highest temperature over the mean carbonic acid found at the lowest temperatures at that same station .
Moreover , if we compare with each other the mean weights of carbonic acid expired at the ten lowest temperatures for the two stations , they will be found nearly exactly the same and , while for the ten highest temperatures there is much more carbonic acid expired at Ste. Croix than at Strasburg and , the increase being by no less than per cent. This appears at first sight quite unaccountable , although I think it can be satisfactorily explained .
There was clearly some influence on the experiments at Ste. Croix connected with the highest atures which was absent at Strasburg .
That influence I believe to be a lower state of relative humidity of the sir , which , by producing increased perspiration and increased evaporation at the lungs , exerted a cooling action on the body , thus necessitating an increase of animal combustion .
It is true that the atmosphere was warmer , but this circumstance ] to compensate for the cold produced by increased perspiration and evaporation .
This explanation appears to me to account factorily for the increase of carbonic acid observed at the higher station : it was not due to the fall of atmospheric pressure , but to increased dryness of the atmosphere , acting precisely in the same way as an accession of cold would have done .
THE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN Before entering any further upon this communication I must beg to acknowledge the valuable aid ofmy assistant , Mr. C. F. TOWNSEND , F.C.S. , to whose diligent , methodical , and careful work I greatly indebted for the results obtained in the present inquiry .
We made together the numerous calculations for the reductions , thus checking the figures in every possible way to insure accuracy .
Since my attention waFi first given to the chemical phenomena of respiration , I have had the honour of communicating to the Royal Society a succession of papers on the " " Influence of Altitude on Respiration which have appeared in volumes 27 , 28 , 29 , and 31 of the ' Proceedings .
' These inquiries show in the most conclusive manner that altitude exerts an action on respiration depending exclusively on the fall of atmospheric pressure , and the law can be expressed as follows:\mdash ; " " The ] umes of air breathed , reduced to and 760 mm. , in order to produce a certain weight , say , 1 gramme of carbonic acid in the body , are smaller on mountains under diminished atmospheric pressures than they are in the plains under higher pressures My earliest experiments .
on the Breithorn ( 13,685 feet\mdash ; 4171 metres ) , the Col St. Theodule ( 10,899 feet\mdash ; 3322 metres ) , the ( 8428 feet\mdash ; 2568 metres ) , the St. Bernard ( 8115 metres ) , and the Col du Geant ( 11,030 feet\mdash ; S362 metres ) were all attended with a fall of the atmospheric temperature on reaching into higher altitudes ; this circumstance necessarily produced an increased combustion in the body in order to oyercome the action of the cold , and introduced an element into the inquiry which was likely to interfere with the exclusive influence altitude might exert on the mical phenomena of respiration .
The only way of overcoming this difficulty was to resort to a mountain where it was possible to ascend to a considerable altitude without meeting with the cold air of northern Alpine districts .
Thus I induced to visit the Peak of Tenerife , taking with me the instruments required to repeat the experiments undertaken in the Swiss Alps .
I spent three weeks on the Peak in the summer of 1878 , engaged in these inquiries .
temperature , though varying somewhat at the three stations I had selected at various altitudes , was always hot in the daytime , and there was no cause for any increased formation of carbonic acid in the body towards the of cold .
The result was most striking .
While in the cold Swiss Alps I had observed an increased expiration of carbonic acid ascending on myself and others who submitted to the experiment , on the Peak of Tenerife there was no such increase .
The mean weight of carbonic acid ired at the three stations by two different persons was , with one exception at one station only\mdash ; in the case of a Chamonix guide\mdash ; nearly the same for each of them respectively ; the volumes of air breathed were lessened , so that the law remained unchanged : that at increasing alti*There is one exception in the case of the Chamonix guide , the volume of he expired ( for 1 being somewhat greater at the higher the intermediate station on the Peak ; but the mean volume of air expired at these two stations , collectively , was mnch less than the mean volume of ' expired at the seaside .
tudes less air breathed , reduced to and 760 mm. , than at the sea level , is required to produce 1 .
ofcarbonic acid in the body .
The experiments on the Peak of Tenerife , by doing away entirely with the influence of cold , placed this fact beyond doubt .
As it is important towards a clear understanding of this paper that the results obtained formerly should be present to the reader , I beg to subjoin them in a tabular form .
EXPERIMENTS on the Influence of Altitude upon the Chemical Phenomena of Respiration ( on Myself ) .
ON the Peak of Tenerife ( on Myself ) .
COL du Geant ( Myself ) .
Weight oLitres oreduced tMean before ascent / COL du Geant ( on a Companion ) .
op Xpoq H$ ddns o$ unouI ?
uo ZT uo I@ ?
ft 01U0JR T8 } ou AlOI uo JOUI $B1 ssaJ 6 : Z9 eqJi IqIssod S uoos } mm xnssaJd J uxeu1 us ; uo op mqns uo nbuI @q I op Jaded o$ Iqnd u sy uo I uo onpoJd qons S1H$ JJOO ( J1B suoo peq I ) ue iIOXNEJiLffd 5 mpug p qIssod s se @murmJ9p peuI }IIJi NOlJiVHIdSEE NOKEHd EHI EXPERIMENTS at , near Geneya , on Mr. R. THURY , 1883 .
Barometer mm. at the Rigi Staffel on Mr. THURY , 1883 .
Barometer mm. FHENOMENA OF HUMAN SPIRATION .
The following investigation was carried out in a laboratory of the Physiological Department at Uniyersity College , which Professor has kindly placed at my disposal .
Two persons\mdash ; my assistant , Mr. C. F. TOWNSEND , and my lnboratory attendant , WILLIAM ALDERWOOD , who has worked for the last five years in my laboratory , and whom I can thoroughly trust to carry out my instructions\mdash ; both kindly submitted to experiment .
uiry has to be prefaced with a statement of the method of investition adopted .
The main objects were to collect and measure the air expired from the lungs within a given time , and then find out , as accurately as possible , the weight or volume of carbonic acid it contained .
I had proposed at first to determine also the volume of air inspired , but met with so many difficulties in carrying this out satisfactorily that it was given up .
There are two possible sources of error in a work of this kind , first on account of the resistance breathing has to overcome when the expired air is either collected for analysis or passed absorbing media ; and , secondly , from the attention of the person who is breathing being directed to the experiment , so that respiration becomes a ntary act instead of being purely automatic .
In EDWARD SMITH'S experiments*the air was inspired through a dry gas meter , and expired through a succession of vessels which absorbed the water and carbonic acid , the latter being estimated by weighing .
This method , although possessed of the advantage of allowing each experiment to be continued for an definite length of time , appeared to me hardly delicate enough for the object I had in view , especially because of the unavoidable resistance to free respiration , although it might be but slight .
The air expired had therefore to be collected in a bell-jar , in such a way that the person under experiment might not be aware , at the time , he was breathing with an object in view .
I had two bell-jars constructed for this by Messrs. W. PARKINSON and Co. , engineers , by whom they were admirably made .
bell-jar could hold 40litres of air , and was graduated on a scale litres and fractions of litres .
They were made ofjapanned iron , and suspended tanks filled with a solution of pure sodium chloride ; the solution in the tank used for most of the experiments had a density of , corresponding to 10 per .
of sodium chloride .
The tanks had an annular form , so that the fluid should expose as small a surface as possible to the air contained in the jars .
The bell-jars were counterpoised over a pulley fixed to a cycloid to which another regulating weight was suspended .
The cycloid was so constructed that the increased leverage of the ulating weight counterbalanced exactly the increase of weight of the bell-jar as it ascended from the tank and vice .
A gauge fixed to the dome of the bell-jar and charged with almond oil indicated the state of tension of the air in the jar .
I found that by keeping the outside of the bell-jars carefully lubricated with almond oil their motion through the salt water was certainly facilitated , and after careful adjustment the bell-jars were so nicely suspended that could be expired quite unconsciously into them through a ' ls59 .
IIDCCCXC.\mdash ; B. IJR .
W. MARCET ON A CHElfICAL INQUIRy INTO pipe about an inch in diameter , opening under the dome of the bell-jar .
But this still proved insufiicient , as it was necessary to devise some method the person under experiment to breathe without his being aware that his breath was being collected for riment .
The difficulty was oyercome as follows : double-way stop-cock , with passages not much less than an inch in diameter , was fixed to an upright stand screwed to the floor , and an -rubber tubing of a corresponding diameter was connected with it , long enough to be used by a person sitting in a recumbent posture in a deck chair\mdash ; there was a vulcanite mouthpiece in the distal end of the india-rubber tube .
By means of a handle the double-way cock could be turned in such a position as to enable the person in the deck chair to breathe either into the open air or into the bell-jar .
A little silk flag placed inside a glass tube introduced in the course of the india-rubber tubing , flapped during the expiration and remained still while air was inspired , thus acting as a guide throughout the experiment .
This arrangement answered the purpose in every way ; the person experimented upon was instructed to inspire through the nose and through the tube while in communication with the open air , and without paying any attention to bell-jar , the little flag showing clearly the time when the respiration had become perfectly slow and natural .
Then , without giving any notice and unknown to the person under experiment the handle of the double way cock was turned during an inspiration and the expired air directed towards the bell-jar ; this was so delicately suspended that no appreciable difference of sensation was experienced in the breathing , and it frequently happerled that the was half way up while the person in the chair still thought he was breathing into the outside air .
In order to deviate in no way from natural respiration in these experiments , no valvular facepiece was used , the air , as stated above , being inspired through the nose and expired through the mouth .
A little practice made it quite easy , but in order to ensure absolute accuracy two persons who submitted to experiment closed their nose during expiration by a light pressure with the index finger of each hand held in such a position as to do this with as little effort as possible .
After a time the movement became quite automatic , and it was too slight to cause the addition of any appreciable amount of carbonic acid in the expired air .
The experiment was made in the following person sat in a semirecumbent posture in a coInfortable deck chair , his body and legs being thoroughly supported and the feet on a stool at the same height as the legs , thus every lnuscular strain was done away with .
Then he began inspiring through the nose and expiring from the mouth through the india-rubber tube and double-way cock into the open ; at first the little in the track of the air expired was seen to fly about wildly , then by degrees its ements became more , and after from ten minutes to a quarter of an hour the respirations were observed to be quite quiet and steady .
The scale of the bell-jar being at the stop cock was turned during an inspiration , and the air expired directed into the bell-jar .
The instant the bell-jar THE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RESPIRATION .
commenced rising a stopwatch or chronograph was started , which registered minutes and seconds only .
After about 35 litres of air had been collected the watch was stopped at the end of an expiration , and the stop-cock , turned during the next inspiration , the air expired being diverted into the external air .
The volume of air collected was read off on the scaJe , exactly under atmospheric pressure .
In some few instances the air was analysed at once ( in which case care was taken to rinse out the bell-jar previously with expired air ) , but as a rule the bell-jar was filled twice or three times so as to obtain two experiments yielding as near as possible the same volume of.air expired in a given time .
In many cases the difference did not exceed two or three per cent. , but it occasionally happened to be much greater .
These occurrences were perplexing , and led to careful discussions before the figures were ccepted .
The air collected in the bell-jar was next submitted to analysis , but first of all its temperature was obseryed with a thermometer introduced in situ through the bell-jar , then the barometer was read .
The determination of carbonic acid in expired air and atmospheric air has taken up my attention for years , and after trying various forms of umetric methods , in which volumes varying from 1 to 7litres of air expired were submitted to analysis , I finally fell back upon PETTENKOFER'S method with which I was well acquainted and which was known to yield reliable results , while simple and speedy in its manipulations .
It was necessary to collect the air from the bell-jar into a vessel of the proper and size , and agitate this air with solution of barium hydrate of known strength .
The vessel is a cylinder made of strong ] of a capacity of 1 litre , it is closed at both ends by brass caps , screwed over a brass flange cemented to the ends of the cylinder , washers are interposed at the points of contact so as to make cylinder absolutely air-tight , a brass tube with , stop-cock is soldered to each cap. One of the tubes is widened out and fitted with a thread , so as to screw to a brass pieco fixed to a bottle of a capacity of a little over 100 .
; the connection being secured with a washer ( a drawing of the instrument is given on Plate 2 ) , the bottle is closed by a wide brass cap screwing upon it perfectly air-tight , so that the bottle can be readily was-hed out and dried with a towel .
The air is drawn from the bell-jar into the dry glass cylinder by means of a } ) , the cylinder being first exhausted and then filled with the air from the bell-jar .
The operation is repeated eight or ten times , when a weight placed on the bell-jar 10 or 12litres more of expired air are driven through the cylinder , which is closed by turning the tap while the air is in transit .
Next , the cylinder still attached by india-rubber tubing to the pipe leading from the bell-jar is immersed in water held in a cylindrical tin vessel * An experiment is quoted here in tbc abstract of this paper ( ' Proceedings , ' vol. 46 , p. 344 ) , towards testing the accuracy of the method of breathing in the bell-jars .
It was found subsequently , repeating it a large number of times , that the results obtained varied to such an extent , from some connected with the experiment , as to make it useless with reference to the object in view .
Hence it is omitted on asion .
DR. W. MARCET ON A CHEMICAL INQUIRY INTO and the temperature of the water is recorded , corresponding to the temperature of the air to be analysed , the .rometer is read off .
This , of course , is done after removing the weights from the bell-jar , and with the air in the bell-jar exactly under atmospheric pressure .
Thus 1 litre of saturated air at a given temperature and under a known barometric pressure was obtained for analysis .
The analysis was made by t-aking up 100 .
of the normal barium solution with a pipette and introducing it into the bottle , which was next screwed upon the cylinder and tightened with gas pliers .
Then the stop-cock closing the cylinder next to the bottle was opened , and by turning the cylinder upside down the lkaline fluid was run into it from the bottle , when on shaking , the solution at once turned milky .
A number of experiments were made to find out how long the agitation of the cylinder had to be continued to ensure the complete combination the carbonic acid .
The experiments were performed both qualitatively and quantitatively .
The qualitative test was made by shaking the air with the alkaline solution for a definite time , then aspiring this same air into a second similar cylinder in which a vacuum had been made , the displacement being effected over water .
This air was tested for carbonic acid by shaking it with baryta water .
After agitating for 10 and 20 minutes the presence of carbonic acid in the second cylinder was still obvious , but after 30 minutes none was left , the solution of barium remaining perfectly clear after brisk agitation .
The quantitative experiment was } by determining the amount of carbonic acid absorbed by the barium hydrate from 1000 .
of the same stock of expired air after agitating the cylinder during 20 minutes , 30 minutes , or 40 minutes .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; minutes ' ' , , 40 minutes ' , , per cent. in air expired .
4.194 , , 4.183 , , Therefore , minutes , there still remained a small portion of unabsorbed ; the very slight difference between the results obtained after 30 and 40 minutes is the probable error of the .
As half an hour 's agitation was objectionable from the length of time , experiments were made to ascertain whether this period could not be shortened by determining the in the cylinder under a pressure exceeding that of the atmosphere .
For this purpose a cylinder was used into which a round graduated brass plunger was introduced\mdash ; an instrument I had experimented with for some time while searching for a good volumetric method of estimating .
The plunger moving through a close-fitting stuffing box was found to be quite air tight , and by depressing or raising it the pressure in the cylinder could be increased or by the volume of the lunger introduced or THE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN By this means the agitation could be made at will , either below the atmospheric pressure , at that pressure , or above it .
On depressing the plunger to 50 c.c. the air after complete combination was very nearly under atmospheric pressure .
On depressing the plunger to 100 .
the pressure amounted to very nearly 38 mm. of mercury .
On depressing it to 80 .
the pressure amounted to nearly 23 mm. of mercury .
It was found that the combination took place much more rapidly at a pressure exceeding that of the atmosphere than below or at the atmospheric pressure .
In ordinary circumstances the absorption of 50 .
in the cylinder , from expired air under analysis , would cause a vacuum or fall of pressure of about 38 mm. of mercury .
This circumstance militates strongly against complete absorption , but by increasing the pressure as stated above to 23 mm. over and above the pressure ( after absorption ) , it was found that after agitating for 10 minutes no was left uncombined , and with a pressure of 38 to 40 mm. the combination ppeared complete after agitating for 5 minutes .
In the course of the present inquiry the use of the plunger was given u and the air in the cylinder was compressed by driving into it about 100 c.c. of common air , free from rbonic acid .
This was done with-a pear-shaped vulcanised india-rubber bag attached to the end of one of the terminal tubes , as shown in the accompanying drawing .
The air was forced into the cylinder with the hand , stopcock again closed and the bag removed .
Thus , a volume of about 100 .
of air , free from ( passed through pumice stone moistened with potassium hydrate ) , was introduced into the cylinder , producing after combination a pressure of about 38 mm. of mercury .
After shaking for a quarter of an hour , the bottle containing the milky dine solution was unscrewed from the cylinder and its contents were rapidly poured into a dry glass-stoppered bottle of a capacity of about 100 , which was sealed with paraffin .
The next day the precipitate had separated , and the clear fluid was trated with a solution of oxalic acid of such a strength that 1 .
corresponded to Fourteen experiments were undertaken to test the accuracy of this analytical method .
In each experiment two analyses were made from the same stock of air in the bell-jar , and the accuracy of the results goes far to show how well the bell-jar retained its equilibrium with the atmospheric pressure .
The results are tabulated as follows:\mdash ; *Some determinations of , made with the plunger , by metbod , ve required a small correction to the plunger coming out slightly greasy from the .
A number of experiments showed the correction to amount to a meall of 1 per ccnl .
FOtTND Carbonic Acid as expired per minute .
Grdmmc .
Diffcrence .
Per ccnt .
0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0 .
; : 0 .
0.4007 ; 0.4:348 0.61 0.22 0.35 0.25 The following precautions were taken in these analyses as necessary to ensure absolutely correct results by PETTENKOFER'S method:\mdash ; 1 .
The distilled water used for diluting the solution of barium hydrate ( 100 to 200 c.c. ) , was thoroughly boiled , and kept in stoppered Winchester quarts .
Before using this water it was tested and rejected if one drop of the dilute Ikaline solutioJl ( .
normal barium solution in 100 ) failed to show a ction in about 30 .
of the distilled water coloured with two or three drops of solution of turmeric .
2 .
The same burette was used in every experiment , and every titration was commenced at of the burette scale , the burette being always refilled .
3 .
The air drawn into the burette by displacement of the fluid was filtered through a tube containing pumice stone moistened with a saturated solution of potassium hydrate in very dilute glycerine , and connected with the burette by cork and indiarubber tubing .
Thus none of the atmospheric carbonic acid could reach the solution in the burette .
4 .
During the titration air blown from a bellows over pumice stone , moistened with potassium hydrate in dilute glycerine , was driven through the wide-mouth bottle in which the tion w being made , so atmosphcric curbonic acid neyer in OF HOMAN SPfRATION .
contact with the contents of the flask ; this precaution was found absolutely necessary to insure accurate results .
5 .
The ] yses of the alkatine tion were made the day after the experiment except when a Sunday intervened .
I have found it necessary not to delay the analyses of atmospheric air , a precaution perhaps less important when a large proportion of is present , occurs in air expired from the lungs .
6 .
The solution of oxalic acid used in method usually undergoes a change after about a , when mould is formed in the fluid .
In order to avoid any error from this cause , the solution was prepared very carefully by heating dry flask in which it was to be made to a temperature to destroy the bacteria , and allowing it to cool with its opening plugged with cotton wool .
The weighed oxalic acid was rapidly transferred to the , and the solution made with fresh boiled distilled water .
The solution prepared in this way keeps for a much longer time unaltered in strength , than if these utions are not taken .
There is practically I believe , only one source of error in PETTENKOFLB'S method of analysis\mdash ; from the uncertainty of the acidity of the oxalic acid used , as equal weights of samples do not always give exactly same degree of acidity .
This source of error can be easily obviated by substituting hydrochloric acid for oxalic acid .
The analyses referred to in this paper have all been made with oxalic acid from the same stock kept in a glass stoppered bottle .
In order to make quite certain of the strength of the solution , a standard solution of pure hydrochloric acid prepared by titrating it with a weighed quantity of anhydrous sodium carbonate .
The a]kalinity of the barium solution then determined with the standard oxalic acid , and also with the standard hydrochloric acid , while a known volume of the same barium solution was precipitated with sulphuric acid , and determined by weight as barium sulphate .
The results obtained were as follows:\mdash ; With oxalic acid 100 .
barium solution were found equivalent to . . . . .
grms. With hydrochloric acid , By weight , 100 . . . . .
It was therefore obvious that the oxalic acid used in these analyses was quite pure , and moreover that the barium hydrate was uncontaminated with any other alkali .
It has been long known that a certain proportion of the oxygen of the air inspired is not returned in the expired air as carbonic acid , and BEGNAU and REISET in their admirable experime1lts* have shown that a portion of the oxygen inhaled is occluded in the body .
While experimenting on dogs they found the mean relation between the weight of the oxygen expired and the total weight of oxygen COIlsumed * ' Annals de Chimie et de Physiqu 1849 , vol. 26 .
to be .
I have subjected human respiration to experiments of a similar description , snd obtained results approximating very much to those arrived at by and REISET , but the inquiry was beset with difficulties , and the figures obtained for occluded air do not agree close enough justify their being quoted on this occasion .
We may so far accept an occlusion of from to 2 per cent. of the inspired ; refore , the volumes of air expired , as given in this paper , increased by that proportion , will yield very nearly the corresponding volumes of air inspired .
Since , however , the air expired has only been taken into account in the present inquiry , the results safely be accepted as correct relatively to other without introducing any correction .
The calculations these experiments necessitated were simple , though somewhat laborious , until I had completed with the aid of Mr. TOWNSEND a table for reduction of volumes , which was found of the greatest use .
As I am not aware of such a table of ures being in existence , and as it may be useful to others , it is included in the present mication .
The horizontal are Barometer readings from 740 to 780 mm. , and the vertical headings are the temperatures from C. to C. nclusive .
The reduction of one litre 1000 to C. and 760 mm. given for every Barometer reading from 740 to 780 mm. , and every temperature from ] .
C. to C. The correction for fractions of millimetres is additive and obtained by multiplying the fraction by the constant c.c. , or perhaps more correctly .
The correction for fractions of degrees Centigrade is subtractive , and obtained by multiplying the fraction by the constant .
The table was made with the usual formula , Every second or third column of eductions was calculated from the formula , and the interyening ones were calculated with constants .
The figures obtained by the use of constants were tested in a number of cases by calculation from the formula and found to be correct within per cent. With the assistance of these tables the calculation of a whole analysis could be made easily within a quarter of an hour , in some cases ten minutes were found sufficient for the purpose .
The carbonic acid in the laboratory air was taken into account , though not determined in direct connection with the present nents .
A number of analyses of this air made on previous occasions showing that the meall C present could be taken in clear at 5 parts in 10,000 , and in dull weather at 7 parts in 10,000 , the carbonic acid expired from the lungs was in every case corrected according to these data .
THE PHENOMENA OF HUHAN RLSPJRATION .
The first series of experiments refers to WILLIAM ALDERWOOD , aged 23 , a strong man in excellent health , with a well deyeloped chest measuring 83 centims. in circumference at nipples ; he weighs .
llb .
without clothes .
Seventy-four complete experiments were made in his case , but as they extended from the winter into the spring , the temperature of the laboratory ( heated by hot water pipes ) underwent rather great changes during that period ; this ance was found to exert a decided influence on his respiration , the cold reducing the volumes of air breathed for 1 expired ; hence it became necessary to divide the 74 experiments into two groups , one group including those made at a laboratory temperature varying from to C. , and the other group including those made at a temperature varying from to C. The first group numbered 25 nents , and the second 49 experiments .
The are given in the form of tables , the means of which have been made into two charts or series of curves ( see Plate 1 ) .
Each chart shows three curves , one for the carbonic acid , one for the volumes of air expired , and one for the relation between the volumes and the corres o weights of carbonic acid .
[ In relatively cold weather table , it is difficult to define the precise hour during which the maximum carbonic acid is expired , as the proportion exhaled is relatively high from to 1 hour , 1 to 2 hours , and 2 to 3 hours after food ; the actual maximum is from 2 to 3 hours after food , after which time the fall is marked and continued .
In relatively warm weather table , it is also difficult to assign the period for the maximum expiration of carbonic acid , the hest figure is between 1 and 2 hours after a meal , but the fall does not begin till the fourth hour .
It may be said that with this person under experiment , the expiration of carbonic acid begins to somewhat earlier after food in cold weather than in warmer weather ; but it would be premature to apply this result in a general way .
The chart for the } ?
rativey cold weather ( WILLTAM ALDERWOOD under experiment ) shows distinctly , an inspection of the curved line marked , that the carbonic acid expired is high ( with a slight fall from 1 to 2 hours after food ) till from 2 to 3 hours after food , after which time the fall is rapid and .
till from 5 to 6 hours after food , when the experiments come to an end .
In this same chart the curve for the volumes of air expired in comparatively cold weather ( see the dotted line ) coincides very closely with the curve for , from 2 to 3 hours till from 3 to 4 hours , and from 4 to 5 hours till from 5 to 6 hours , after food ; , while the line for falls and regularly , that for volumes of air expired remains nearly horifor an hour ( from 3 to 4 hours till from 4 to 5 hours after food ) this means that the volumes of are increasing in proportion to the weight of they contain , hence the curve for relations shoots up rapidly ; but in the following hour ( from 4 to 5 till from 5 to 6 ) the curves for volume and show again a marked dency to coincide .
chart for the ( WILLIAM under experiPHENOMENA OF HUMAN RLSPIRATION .
meant ) the curve for exhibits a slight rise .
the first hour after food , then a slight fall and again a slight rise , the maximum being between 1 and 2 hours after food ; but the high till between 3 and 4 hours after food , while by that time the cul.ve was falling rapidly in colder weather .
After a period , from 3 to 4 hours after food , the curve falls at somewhat the same speed as it does in colder weather .
In this same chart the curves for the volumes of air and expired in tively warm weather ( see the dotted ) coincide very closely with each other from the time food is taken , till from 3 to 4 hours later ; then , while the curve for continues its regular fall , that for volumes of air expired diverges , crossing the line for .
The effect on the curve for ions is to make it shoot up all but precisely to the same extent as in the corresponding curve for waymer weather .
This circumstance certainly shows that the phenomenon is not accidental , but is actually the rule , at all eyents in the present case .
A similar change of coincidence in ) curves for and of air expired is observed in the other person who submitted to experiment.\mdash ; October 23 , ] WlLLIAM ALDERWOOD under experiment.\mdash ; Table showing ( 1st ) Weight of Carbonic Acid expired per minute ; ( 2nd ) Volume of Air expired per minute reduced to and 760 mm. ; ( 3rd ) Relation of Volume of Air expired ( reduced ) to Weight of of the Air the time of experiment from to Weight of Carbonic Acid per ?
in every hour up to six meal .
Hours after a meaJ .
of Air ( rednced ) expired per minute .
between Volume of Air expired ( reduced ) and Weight of rbonic ; i.e. , of Air expired .
for 1 PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RATION .
WILLIAM ALDERWOOD under experiment.\mdash ; Table showing ( 1st ) Weight of Carbonic Acid expired per ninute ; ( 2nd ) Volume of Air expired per minute reduced to and 760 mm. ; ( 3rd ) Relation of Volume of Air expired ( reduced ) to of of the Air at the of from to Weight of rbonic Acid expired per minute in every hour up to six hours Volume of educed ) expired minute .
Relation ) Volume of Air ( reduced ) and Weight of Carbonic Acid ; i.e. , Volume of Air expired for 1 of Atmospheric Pressure on Respiration .
[ In order to make the influence of atmospheric pressure on respiration perfectly clear to the reader , the experiments have been disposed in the form of two tables .
In the first table they are divided into two groups ( under the form of means ) of an equal number , the first group incl u. the experiments attended with the highest barometer readings , the second including , - those attended with the lowest readings .
In the second table ( pp. 23 and 24 ) each of the groups of experiments considered ( under the form ( means ) in preceding table , has been divided into two sub-groups of an equal number of experiments , each of the sub-groups for the extreme highest and lowest pressures only being entered ( under the form of ) .
\mdash ; October 23 , 1889 .
] It is certainly unexpected to find that local changes of atmospheric pressure have a most positive and marked influence on respiration , the effect being of the same kind as that I had observed lsly in my experiments at increasing altitudes .
In order to show the action of the variations of local pressures on respiraticn it was necessary to eliminate as much as possible the influence of food , and with this object in vie the experiments made every two hours after a meal were gl.ouped together , and the pressures and .
relations for each group placed in a tabular form .
THE PHENOMENA HUMAN RESPIRATION .
TABLE that the Fall of the Barometer is attended by a Reduction in the Volume of air Expired ( reduced ) for 1 ( temper tures C. to WILLIAM ALDERWOOD under Experiment .
The experiments are divided into two hose attended with the highest rometer readings and those with the lowest .
to 2 Hours .
mm. 1st group.\mdash ; Mean highest barometer Relations ( i.e. , vol. air expired per 1 . . . . .
9.423 2nd , , Mean lowest barometer , , . . . . .
Difference . . . . .
Fall for mm. Number of Experimcuts , 11 .
2 to 4 Hours .
mm. Litres .
1st \mdash ; Mean highest barometer 7670 Relations . . . . .
2nd , , Mean lowest barometer , , . . . . .
Difference . . . . .
Fall for mm. Number of Experiments , 11 .
4 to 6 Hours .
mm. 1st group.\mdash ; Mean highest barometer 7664 Relations . . . . .
) 2nd , , Mean lowest barometer , , . . . . . .
ence . . . .
Fall for mm. Number of Experiments , 27 .
EXTREMES .
Temperatures , to 2 ffours Food .
The three Highest and three Lowest Pressures all resp n Relations .
mm. Lit 1st group .
ean highest barometer RelationB . . . . . . .
2nd , , Mean lowest baromctel , , . . . . . .
, .
2 to 4 Hours after Food .
The three Highest and three Lowest Pressures and corresponding Relations .
Litres .
mm. group.\mdash ; Mean highcst baromeler Relations 2nd , , Mean ]owest barometer 9.260 ference Fall for 271 mm. 4 to 6 Hours Food .
The six hest and six Lowest and corresponding Relations .
Litres .
mm. 1st .\mdash ; Mean highest barometer .
Relations 10.097 211d , , lowest baromckr Difference . . . .
Fall for mm. Therefore , from the present enquiry with reference to this person under eriment , a similar remark applies to the other , the relations are invariably found to be lowered with falling pressures ; or , in other words , with a falling atmospheric pressure the volume of air breathed to expire 1 is lessened .
This is shown very clearly by a consideration of the ultimate results obtained from the present these are follows : From the Collective Readings .
hours after fours after oodMean . .
for a mean fall of mm. pressure there was a mean reduction of litre in the air breathed to expire 1 .
to a reduction of litre in the volume of air breathed for a fall of essure of 10 mm. The extreme readin , for barometer and relations ( reme halves of each group ) gave much greater rences e ) in one case , to which special reference will be made ; they are as follows : \mdash ; PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RESPIRATION .
2 to 4 hours after food to 2 fter f .
Fall o.etric 4 to 6 hours after food Fall in the volumes of air expired for 0.437 Therefore , for a mean fall of mm. pressure , there was a mean reduction of litre in the air breathed to expire 1 , amounting to a reduction of litre for 10 mm. pressure .
he small figure , , for the fall of relation from 2 to 4 hours after food , shows that the influence of food appears to interfere with the action of atmospheric pressure .
It will JlOW be seen that the fall in the volume of air breathed for 1 is very nearly the same , whether the barometer readings ( for every two hours ) be taken collectively , or whether the extreme readings only be considered .
If the barometer readings be taken collectively , a fall of volume of 00960litre is observed for 10 mm. pressure ; if the extreme barometric readings only be considered , the fall of volume will amount to litre for every 10 mm. pressure .
The experiments made at a comparatively low mospheric temperature give similar results as to the effect of barometric pressures , they , however , too few in number to allow of their being submitted to a special consideration .
The experiments for barometer readings and corresponding volumes of air for the expiration of 1 for each person under experiment have been disposed under the form of curves .
These curves show that there is a general tendency to a fall of relations with a subsidence of barometric pressure , but from 2 to 4 hours after a meal the influence of food appears to overcome to a certain extent the effect of the barometer , the axis of the curve for relations being nearer to a horizontal line .
The second series of experiments refers to C. F. , aged 23 years , and weighing 8 stone without clothes ; no necessity was found to divide them on account of temperatures ; they amount to 56 in number as reported in detail in the accompanying Table ( pp. 26 and 27 ) .
It will be seen that the maximum weight of carbonic acid and maximum volume of air expired ( litres ) occur from 1 to 2 hours after a meal ; [ but the excess of and air expired from 1 to 2 hours after a meal over that expired from to 1 and 2 to 3 houoe after food , is so nall that the period for the maximum effect is very difficult to define .
It has been stated in the abstract of this paper ( ' Proceedings , ' vol. 46 ) as one of the conclusions arrived at , that these researches confirm " " the known usual influence of food on the formation of carbonic acid in the body , the maximum expired occurring between two or three hours after a meal . .
This result must be accepted in a general way only , as the effect of food upon the formation and eliminabion of appears to vary with the individual .
Moreover , according to my experiments , the influence of digestion towards increasing the formation of in the body , which shows itself within the first after food has been taken , may last during one or two hours , or even longer , and it is very difficult to assign a period for its maximum effect.\mdash ; Januar.y 4 , 1890 .
] Three experiments were made before breakfast , yielding a mean of per minute , and litres of air expired .
curves ( Plate 2 ) for volumes and carbonic acid have not such a parallel course as in the case of WILLIAM ALDERWOOD .
Throughout a period of two hours after food the curve for relations is nearly horizontal , showing that the volumes of air and weights of carbonic acid closely follow each other during that time .
Then the curve shoots up gradually to the end of the chart .
While the line for carbonic acid is seen to fall rather rapidly , the volumes of air expired remain nearly the same .
TABLE showing ( 1st ) Weight of Carbonic Acid expired per minute ; ( 2nd ) Volume of Air reduced to and 760 mm. expired per minute ; ( 3rd ) Relation of Volume of Air expired ( reduced ) to Weight of .
F. TOWNSEND under experiment .
Weight of rbonic Acid expired per Minute in every Hour up to 6 Hours to 4 .
THE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RESPIRATION .
Volume of Air reduced expired per Minute .
Relation between Volume of Air ( reduced ) and Weight of rbonic A i.e. , Volume of Air expired for 1 .
ours a TABLE showing that the Fal ] of the Barometer is attended by a reduction in the Volume of Air expired ( reduced ) for 1 Grm . .
( C. F. TOWNSEND under Experiment .
) BAROMETER READINGS AND RELATIONS FROM ALL THE EXPERIMENTS DIVIDED INTO Two GROUPS .
to 2 Hours Food .
Litres .
Mean highest barometer Relations , vol. air expired for Mean lowest barometer 7504 , , . . . . . . . . .
Difference Fall for Number of Expel'iments , 18 .
2 to 4 Hours after Food .
Litres .
Mean highest barometer 7667 Relations . . . . .
10533 Mean lowest barometer 7539 , , . . . . .
Difference Fall mm. Number of Experiments , 27 .
4 to 6 Hours Food .
Litres .
Mean highest er . . .
Relations Mean lowest bal'ometer . . .
, , Difference . . . . .
Fall for mm. Number of Experiments , 11 .
EXTREMES .
to 2 Hours Food .
The Five Highest and Five Lowest arometer Readings and Corresponding Relations .
Litres .
Mean highest barometer . . .
Relations . . . . .
Mean lowest barometer . . . .
, , . . . . .
Difference . . .
Fall for 20.7 mm. 2 to 4 Hours after Food .
The Seven Highest and Seven Lowest Bnrometer Readings and esponding Relations .
Litres .
Mean highest barometer . . . . .
Relations . . . . .
10.503 Mean lowest barometer . . .
, , . . . . .
Difference . . .
Fall for 20.1 mm. THE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RESPIRATION .
4 to 6 Hours after Food .
The Three Highest and Three Lowest Barometer Readings and Corresponding Litres .
Mean highest barometer Relations Mean lowest barometer , , Difference . . . . .
Fall for mm. This Table shows a result corresponding with that obtained from similar experiments on WILLIAM ALDERWOOD .
The fall of Barometric readings and corresponding relations taken collectively give the following figures:\mdash ; TAKEN COLLECTIVELY .
Fall of from to 2 hours after food from 2 to 4 hours after food Mean . . . . .
from 4 to 6 hours } food Therefore , for a mean fall of 12 mm. pressure , there was a mean eduction d litre of air breathed for 1 expired , amounting to a reduction of for 10 mm. The Table for extreme realings gives : Fall of from to 2 hours after food .
to 4 hours after food .
from 4 to 6 aftel food .
Mean . . . . . .
in the voJumes Differences of of air ex rometric prcssurc .
pired for \mdash ; Therefore , with the extreme readings , for a mean fall of mm. of the barometer , nere was a mean ] of litre in the breathed to expire 1 .
carbonic acid , amounting to a reduction of for 10 mm. This is very near to the corresponding figure obtained for the barometer readings and relations taken collectively .
Consequently , with one person under experiment , the mean reduction for the experiments taken collectively amounted to 00942litre for a fall of 10 mm. ; and with another it amounted to litre .
It follows that the effect of falling atmospheric pressures varies degree with different indiyiduals .
The curve shows distinctly , in the case of C. F. TOWNSEND , the same influence of a falling barometer on respiration as the curve for W. ALDHjRWOOD .
From to 2 hours after food , from 4 to 6 hours after food , there is a distinct fall ; from 2 to 4 ]lours after food the fall is still observed though less marked , showing again that food appears to lessen the influence of the atmospheric pressure on respiration .
The results obtained from the present inquiry are as follows:\mdash ; 1 .
The phenomenon is confirmed that less air , reduced to C. and 760 mm. , is breathed at high than low altitudes , for the formation in the body of a given weight of carbonic acid .
The experiments on W. ALDERWOOD certainly show that a local fall of temperature is attended with a slight reduction in the volumes of air breathed for the formation and expiration of 1 grIIl .
, a phenomenon similar to that resulting from a fall of atmospheric pressure .
\mdash ; 25th February , 1890 .
] 3 .
The influence of food , during digestion , on the ation of carbonic acid , commences within ) first hour after a meal has been taken , and lasts for two or three hours , the period for the maximum amount varying throughout that time .
4 .
The influence of food on the relation between the volumes of air breathed and the corresponding weights of carbonic acid expired is shown , the volumes following , more or less , the fluctuations in the carbonic acid ; but the expired has a marked tendency to fall more rapidly than the corresponding volumes of air as time elapses after a meal .
The harmony of the tracings appears to recover itself , however , over night , and the lines are again nearly parallel before the first morning meal .
5 .
The variations of local atmospheric pressures have a marked influence on respiration , less air being taken into the for the formatio1 ] and emission of a givcn weight of carbonic acid under lo were atmospheric pressures than under higher pressures ; but this influence varies in degree to different persons .
In the present with two subjects experimented upon ; in one case , for a fall of pressure of 10 mm. inch , there was a mean reduction of litre in the volume of air breathed for 1 expired ; in the other case , the reduction was greater , and amounted to litre .
6 .
The influence of atmospheric pressures on the volume of air breathed is apparently not the same hout the whole day , being somewhat less marked from 2 to 4 hours afler a meal , when the action of food may be considered at its maximum .
Thus , digestion apparently reduces more or less , the effects of any local change of pressure on respiration .
The present investigation shows beyond doubt that different individuals breathe different volumes of : to burn in the body and expire a given weight of carbonic acid .
The two persons upon on the present occasion yielded respecTHE PHENOMENA OF HUMAN RESPIRATION .
tively a mean of and litres , while another expired a mean of litres for 1 .
carbonic acid .
No doubt , the less the volurne of air inspired for the combustion of a certain weight of carbon the readily the oxygen taken into the lungs finds its way into the blood , and consequently the more perfect the action of the organs .
In the present case , one of the subjects submitted to meant was 60 years of , and he breathed ] litres , against litres and litres for young men both 23 years of age ; although of the same weight , one stronger physically and with a more fully-developed chest breathed ( expired ) litres , against for the other , to burn the same weight of carbon in his body . .
1890 . .
falb

