1874 .
] Mr. J. L. Tupper on the Centre of Motion the Eye .
429 XIII cc On the Centre of Motion in the Human Eye .
" Tupfer .
Communicated by S. J. A. Salter , F.R.S. May 15 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) By J. L. Received The paper of which this is a short abstract premises that its argument is conditional , that it adopts all the fundamental optical conditions as they are received , that the received centre of motion is not one of these , but is supposed to be legitimately derived from them , and that the author disputes this and proposes * 1st .
To show that this conclusion is inconsistent with its premises , and that a different though indefinite conclusion is thence derivable ; 2nd .
By experiment , to develop and reduce that conclusion to a definite form ; 3rd .
To verify it by anatomical induction .
The latest investigations ( those of Prof. Donders ) have placed the centre of motion nearly two millimetres behind the centre of the globe , and in the cornea 's axis .
The process of proof assumed that the centre of motion is equidistant from the outer and inner margins of the cornea , and , moreover , that the eye 's visual line ( ordinarily at 6 ' with the cornea 's axis ) will , by mere rotation , in turn coincide with three or more radii of the same circle ; or that , without moving the head , we can successively sight the lines on a graduated circular arc , seeing them as so many points .
\gt ; .
The paper first proves , by a geometrical diagram , that it the eye , by simple rotation , can thus see the radii of a circle , the centre of motion must be in the visual line , not in the cornea 's axis , as hitherto supposed , proves next , by pairs of sights set up on the radii of a circle , and actually seen as so many points , that the centre of motion is , in fact , in the visual line ; and proves , lastly , by measuring ( mechanically ) how far the front of the cornea is from the converging point of the radii thus sighted , that the centre of motion is about of an inch , instead of of an inch , behind the cornea 's anterior surface .
Then follows a twofold anatomical corroboration of these conclusions by examination , 1st , of the living eye ; 2nd , of the dissected eye .
( 1st ) If the eye rotated on a point in the antero-posterior diameter ( or cornea 's axis ) , then any two points equidistant from the cornea 's centre would in turn occupy the same point in space , as assumed by I rot .
Donders* .
The first experiment shows that two such corresponding points will not , as the eye turns , fall into the same place ; whilst other examinations of the living eye show not only that symmetrically situated points move asymmetrically , but move asymmetrically in such a way as v ou t occur if the centre of motion were external to the antero-posterior axis , 430 Mr. 4 .
L. Tapper on the Centre of Motion the Eye .
[ June 18 , or somewhere in the visual line behind the nodal point , a position which agrees with that assigned to the centre of motion by the preceding analysis .
( 2nd ) The dissected organ exhibits an asymmetrical attachment of the recti muscles , so that a vertical plane cutting these attachments is further from the external than from the internal margin of the cornea .
The circumference of this plane would be a circle , and the attachment of the globe 's suspensory ligament , that resists the backward traction of these muscles , is found also to be a circle parallel to , and one line further back than , the former circle .
The latter may be considered the base of a cone , whose vertex is the optic foramen , in the surface of which cone the recti muscles are situate .
The base is therefore kept in equipoise by the symmetrical arrangement of the contracting muscles behind and the resisting suspensory ligament in front ; so that the contraction of a single rectus , as it draws back the ligament on one side , increases its forward traction on the other side , and moves any two opposite points of the cone 's base equally in opposite directions , or rotates it on its centre , a centre which is thus the anatomical centre of motion , f But however the recti are situate ( and act ) symmetrically with the base of this cone , the base is oblique with respect to the cornea ( not at right angles to its axis ) , and consequently its centre will be on one side of the cornea 's axis ; and again , since the cone 's base is further from the outer than from the inner margin of the cornea , its centre will be outside the cornea 's axis .
Now that part of the visual line where the preceding experiments have placed the centre of motion is outside the cornea 's axis , while the base of the cone , whose centre has thus proved to be the anatomical centre of motion , is found to pass through the visual line of an inch behind the cornea , exactly in accordance with the results of the experiment with sighted radii of a circle .
Lastly , the obliquity of the cone 's base with the base of the cornea proves to be a consequence of the hitherto unexplained want of lateral symmetry in the attachment of the recti muscles , thus explained as a most important means of adjusting the eye 's visual line to the object ; while some further peculiarities in the insertion of the recti , demonstrated in the author 's dissections , conspire to attain the same end .
The author 's thanks for valuable assistance are due to Mr. J. Salter , D.R.S. , to Mr. H. G. Hows , Demonstrator of Anatomy to Guy 's Hospital , and to the Rev , Geo. i\ Wright , of Overslade , Rugby .

