]\gt ; Prof. W. C. Roberts-Austen .
zontal slit , AB , behind which a sensitised photographic is drawn vertically , past slit , by means of driven by clockwork .
The ray from the fixed mirror is periodically by the vane , , and a beaded datum line is given enables any irregularity in the advance of the plate to be The amount of divergence from its datum line of the spot of reflected by the movable mirror at any given moment bears a tion ( which can readily be found by calibration ) to the which the thermo-junction X is heated , and variations of ture are recorded by a curve which is the resultant of the movement of the plate and the horizontal movement of the light .
The complete al.rangement is shown in the diagram The portion of the arrangement in which the placed is also shown in fig. 2 , which is drawn on a larger fig. 1 , the same letters being used in botb .
The thermo-junction X is inserted in a tubulure , constructed crucible of plumbago , , which contains pure moIten gold , and is allowed to cool down slowly , of silver 105 mm. diameter , and pohshed internally .
, is of tin plate , polished internally and blackened outside .
Properties Metals in relation to the Periodic record of the cooling pure gold is epresented of the dotted lines in fig. 3 .
The mass of gold bad in an initial temperature of about 1250o C. , which fell to when the mass began to solidify .
The curve is approxiduring solidification , and oughout its entire pears to be a perfectly normal curve of a cooling mass of points of exceptional absorption or evolution of heat , such Occur in iron , observable .
ained in a similar way , and representing the cooling of per cent. of lead , is shown by the thin dotted line same figure .
It is similar to the one representing the cooling gold , but it will bs evident that the presence of lead lowers point of gold by an amount which is found by measurebe about C. different molecular ( condition is , however , established by the of aluminium .
With per cent. of this element the point can be detected , but is obliteraed and the mass does not become truly solid until the point is reached when the temperatnre has fallen to C. is of interest to ascertain how far the lowering of the freezing of gold is in acCOl.dance with the results of Raoult 's investigaon the lowering of the point of solutions .
His generalihave been tested in the.case of solutions of metals in metals low melting points ( tin , lead , and bismuth ) , in an admirable of experiments by Heycock and Neville .
* In order to calculate of the freezing point of gold produced by one atom of element to 100 atoms of the solvent , which has been method of stating such results , it is necessary to know the latent Journ Chem. vol. 55 , 1889 , p. 666 ; vol. , lS90 , C56 .
3*50 Prof. W. C. Roberts-Austen .
heat of fusion of gold , and this had no been determined , because the accurate measurement of the latent and specific metals with high melting points , such as gold , presents many difficulties than the determinations of similar constants for having low melting points .
Violle*found the specific heat of platinum at different tures byheating a piece of the metal in a specially constructed the temperate , ur being simultaneously determined by means porcelain air-thermometer .
The temperature of the metal known , he plunged it into a calorimeter , and calculated from he obtained the mean specific heat of platinum between the temperatures of the experiment .
By making many different tcmperatures , he was able to deduce the specific platinum at any point within the range , and he found that it increased with the temperature .
The data , thus afforded , him to obtain the freezing point of platinum by ransferring just after solidification into the calorimeter .
Further , by metal just before its solidification into water , it was easy to the total amount of heat evolved during cooling .
Hence , * Comptes ' vol. 85 , 1877 , Properties Metats in relation to the Periodic Law .
351 of heat evolved by the mass after it had become solid , this amount from the total heat transferred to the the melted platinum , he obtained the latent heat of fusion determined* the specific heat and melting point of gold , but he does not appear to ascertained what heat of fusion of the precious metal .
The following were therefore made , in order to afford a basis for calthe theoretical lowering of the freezing point of gold which of impurity should produce .
of polished silver , cm .
diaJneter , and cm .
supported upon three points of cork within a bright vessel , blackened externally , and constituting an air-jacket .
of water employed varied from 800 to 1088 grams .
was a thin sheet of mioa , mounted upon a silver wire , lower end into the form of a hoop ; the mica also served the gold poured into the water .
In experiments to I , was effected by silver vanes , of a form suggested by Rucker , actuated by a small electromotor .
Quantities of gold , varying from 68 to 123 granls , were melted in a crucible and poured into the calorimeter .
portion of the manipulation was perfornaed by my assistant , whose experience in melting gold enabled him to the latest moment before solidification at which the gold could poured .
In Experiments A and and to I , the temperature of naolten mass was measured , by the aid of the thermo-junction eviously described , which was placeCl directly in the molten gold , up to the moment of pouring , and it is believed that the temperature of the mass known to within -1 C. the end of each experiment , the gold poured into the calori- was collccted and weighed .
The thermometer used very sensitive one with fixed zero , and made by Hicks , of Garden ; it could easily be read to C. Tho depth employed was sufficient to prevent the evolution of steam , was observed to escape in any of the experim recorded .
calculations are as follows:\mdash ; Prof. W. C. Roberts-Austen .
The total quantity of heat carried to the calorimeter by gold consists of the amount of heat which was required to temperature of the metal to its melting point , plns the actually required to melt it ; or where is the latent heat of fusion of gold required ; Taking , therefore , as the latent heat of fusion of gold , proceeding to find the lowering of the freezing point , due to presence of an impurity , where freezing point of gold , from absolute osmotic pressure in dynes , density of the solvent , atent heat of fusion of he solvent in Inserting values C. Experiments are in progress with a view to ascertain mean specitic heat of very pnre gold is the same as that Violle , for there is every reason to believe that the presence purity has great influence upon this constant .
A few ments already made would seem to indicate that his result and this is important , because a slight difference in the heat will have a material effect upon the latent heat of fusion , sequently on the theoretical atomic fall in the freezing point by aluminium .
In order to ascertain whether give the normal lowering of the freezing point for present in 100 atoms of gold ) a crucible , fitted with a lready described , was taken , and 130 grams of very pure melted in it .
The crucible was then placed over the tion , and allowed to cool , the freezing point of the Prof. W. C. Roberts-Austen .
being recorded in the usual way by a curve .
The gold -melted , and a weighed quantity of aluminium added , stirred and the temperature of its freezing point measured corded in a curve .
The addition of per cent. of aluminium produced an fall in the freezing point , but this initial fall is only change in direction of the curve .
The fall as measured photographic plate is only 1 mm. , which nevertheless a difference of temperature of C. A further addition of per cent. of aluminium cent. ) increased the fall to mm. , responding to C. may be urged that these measurements are small , but the tions were repeated with a scale some distance from the metel , and chronographic records gave resuIts having the values .
An experiment with gold in which 1 per cent. of aluminium present also confirms this ; the fall in temperature of the point was in this case C. , but there were indications that gold , the solvent , was becoming saturated .
Now per cent. of aluminium corresponds to atom per 100 atoms of gold .
* Hence the fall per atom present per hundred atoms of gold C. Similarly , a percentage of corresponds to atoms per hundred of gold , and the fall per atom C. With 1 per cent. of aluminium the total fall will be due atoms per hundred of gold ; hence the atomic fall will C. It may be added that ( as yet incomplete ) show that lead , bismuth , silicon , and platinum cause a much atomic fall " " in the freezing point of gold than aluminium The relations of aluminium to gold would , therefore , appear peculiar in more ways than one .
The curve ( fig. 3 ) clearly that aluminium has a remarkabIe influence on the cooling of a of gold , and in view of this it would seem strange that based on the atomic of aluminium ] show that ib the solidification of gold less than other elements .
The pleie solidification is , however , much retarded ; for merely masb of gold contaminated with very little aluminium fact that the added meant has set up during the mass a " " pasty " " which continues through ange of temperature .
the metallurgy of iron , aluminium is known to is the atomic weight of gold , that of Properties of Metals in relation to the Periodic Law .
portant part , and the introduction of a small quantity of it renders it possible to cast very mild steel or even " " wronght " " into forms which are remarkable for delicacy and soundness .
The mode of action of the aluminium on iron in the ' mitis castings \ldquo ; has given rise to wide divergence of opinion , but the vicw that it acts by removal of oxide , or of occluded oxygen , has gained much favour .
In the case of gold , which has neither occlnded oxygen nor oxide to lose , the castings of the metal with per cent. of aluminium are also remarkably sound , and , as experiments prove , very tenacions ; the action cf the aluminium is , therefore , probably a molecular one of much complexity .
It may be pointed out that the presence in gold of quantities of silver which vary from to per cent. does not lower the freezing point of the mass .
Messrs. Heycock and Neville , who witnessed oertain of the experiments above described , me of the hitherto unpublisbed fact , observed by them , that the presence of thallium does not lower the freezing point of lead .
The close concordance in both these cases between the atomic volumes of the mass of metal and the added impurity is of special interest in connexion with the generalisation given in my eal'lier paper and -stated on the first page of this .
Silver has the samo atomic volume as gold , and if present in small quantity , produces no effect on either its tenacity or its freezing point .
Throughout these experiments gold has been employed the sake of its freedom from liability to oxidation , but other metals must be studied , and it is worthy of record that Hadfield has recently shown the parts played by aluminium and by silicon in steel are almost identical .
Most of the physical properties of alumininm and silicon , in state , are totally different , but they possess the same atomic volume , and when they are alloyed with iron they affect it in precisely the samo way .
I have to expl'ess my thanks to my assistnnt , .
H. C. Jenkins , for his aid in conducting these experiments .
[ April 20 , 1891.\mdash ; fn the courso of the investigabion , it became evldent that , as is the case when aluminium is alloyed with copper or iron , the addition of aluminium to gold is attended with evolution of heat .
The following e , xperinlent was thel'efol.earrallged , view to obtain cvidence on this point:\mdash ; Amass of 30 grarls of gold , contained in all unglazed celain crucible , was placed in the centre of a block of firebrick and strongly heated to well above the melting point of the metal .
The ction was inserted directly in the gold , and the spot of light from th galvanometer allowed to fall in the usual way on to the sensitised plate .
A piece of cold aluminium , equal in to 1 per oent .
of the mass of gold , was then added and rapidly stirred .
The

