208 Mr. C. Tomlinson on [ Mar. 13 , the five pairs of legs , and the abdominal feet ; they show that Thaumops has to undergo no metamorphosis , and that the young ones leave the eggs with all their appendages well developed .
Mode of life.\#151 ; It could not be made out whether T. pelludda inhabits the deep sea , or whether it is , like Phronima , a pelagic animal , having been caught by the trawl only as the latter came up from the depths .
H.M.S. * * * S Challenger/ Teneriffe , February 13 , 1873 .
March 13 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " Note on Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
" By Charles Tomlinson , E.R.S. Received February 10 , 1873 .
In the year 1866 , M. Grernez and M. Viollette published each a memoir on supersaturated saline solutions* , in which the same conclusions are arrived at , namely :\#151 ; ( 1 ) that the only nucleus capable of suddenly crystallizing any one of such solutions is a salt of the same kind as that dissolved ; and ( 2 ) that all bodies , solid , liquid , or aeriform , which apparently act as nuclei , are really contaminated with a hydrate of the salt that forms the supersaturated solution .
I cannot refrain from expressing my admiration at the unwearied skill and patience with which these two memoirs were prepared .
The experiments were repeated by hundreds , and under a large variety of circumstances , so that it seems scarcely possible to entertain any doubt as to the validity of the conclusions arrived at .
I had not seen these memoirs until long after the publication of my second paper on this subject f , or I should have hesitated in offering it to the Royal Society without special reference to them .
What I did see was a very brief abstract of M. Grernez 's memoir in the 1 Comptes Rendus , ' and to this I refer in my first paper J , quoting the experiments and the decisive objections of M. Jeannel in opposition to M. Grernez 's conclusions .
The experiments of Mr. Liversidge S are identical in principle with * Annales Scientifiques de l'Ecole Normale Sup6rieure , tome 3e , Ann4e 18 pp. 167 and 206 .
I am indebted for this reference to the courtesy of M. 1'AbM Moigno .
t Phil. Trans. 1871 , p. 51 .
Vj x Phil. Trans. 1868 , p. 660 .
The reference to M. Jeannel is in the abstract of this paper contained in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society/ May 28 , 1868 , p. 405 .
S Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xx .
p. 497 .
1873 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
209 those of M. Yiollette , and some of them mere variations , such as the proof that bodies greedy of water and capable of being hydrated do not produce crystallization ; only M. Yiollette made use of calcined sulphate of copper instead of calcic chloride \amp ; c.* * * S Moreover , no fresh proofs are wanted as to the non-nuclear action of the modified salt or of the anhydrous salt on supersaturated solutions of Glauber 's salt .
Recently , MM .
Gernezf and ViolletteJ have each , on the occasion of the publication of my third paper ( namely , that written in conjunction with M. Yan der MensbruggheS ) , called in question the integrity of my experiments , M. Gernez insisting that the oils and other liquids employed by me contain salts of the same kind as those of the solutions they apparently acted on .
Such an assertion as this seems to me to be very difficult of proof ; and it seems equally bold to assume that the air of an open garden in the country contains salts of various kinds , watching their opportunity to get into my flasks and vitiate the results of my experiments .
I desire to invite special attention to a statement made in my second paper ; the more so because , without desiring for a moment to call in question the negative results obtained by MM .
Gernez and Viollette , namely , that pure oils \amp ; c. , as used by them , whether in the form of films or globules , do not cause the solutions to crystallize , the method indicated opens a new process for ascertaining whether there is really any other nucleus except a salt of the same kind .
The statement referred to is as follows :\#151 ; " A solution of two parts of Glauber 's salt to one part of water was boiled and filtered into three flasks , which were covered with watch-glasses and left until the next day .
A drop of castor-oil was then placed upon the surface of each : it formed a lens which gradually flattened ; but there was no separation of salt , even when the flasks were shaken so as to break up the oil into small globules ... ... ... ..If , while the flask is being turned round , a sudden jerk be given to it , so as to flatten some of the globules against the side into films , the whole solution instantly becomes solid " |J .
I desire on the present occasion to describe a number of experiments in which this process has been observed .
But anticipating the objection that the various oils that have been long on my shelves , and already used in former experiments , may really contain various kinds of saline nuclei , I procured from a wholesale house a number of fresh specimens of oil .
These vrere the oils of lavender , bergamot , cajuput , sesame , rape , almonds , * On the surface-tension theory , it is not inaccurate to say that absolute alcohol robs the solution of water , and so determines crystallization , since the mixture of alcohol and water degrades the tension of the solution .
t Comptes Rendus , vol. lxxv .
p. 1705 .
J Ibid. vol. Ixxvi .
p. 171 .
S Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xx .
p. 342 .
|| Phil. Trans. 1871 , p. 55 .
Mr. C. Tomlinson on [ Mar. 13 , olive , and sperm .
I did not allow these oils once to enter my laboratory , but kept them in my library , and never opened the phials except in the open air .
The flasks and dropping-tubes were washed in strong sulphuric acid , and rinsed in tap-water , the tubes being kept immersed in clean water in the open air .
The solutions were filtered into the flasks , and these , being covered with small beakers , were reboiled until steam issued from the orifice .
The flasks were then taken into my garden , and when cold an oil was dropped upon the surface of each solution .
If the oil formed a wellshaped lens , there was no separation of salt ; and in many cases , instead of restoring the small beaker to its place , a well-fitting cork was driven into the neck , and the flasks were thus left for a time , on some occasions extending to the next day .
_ _ .
In order to avoid the objection that during the shaking crystallization might be produced by some of the solution splashing against the cork , many of these experiments were repeated in a pear-shaped flask , neaily 12 inches in height , and containing about 2 or 3 ounces of the solution .
Most of the experiments were tried in globular flasks of 5 ounces capacity , with straight cylindrical necks 4 inches high .
Experiment 1 .
Sodic sulphate\#151 ; 1 salt , 1 water .
Solution in tall flask covered with a small beaker .
Next day oil of sweet almonds was dropped into it , and the flask corked .
After about an hour a circular motion was given to the flask , so as to disperse the oil into minute globules through the solution , giving it the appearance of an emulsion .
The flask was left at rest during about an hour , then suddenly shaken , so as to rattle the solution against the side , when all at once , as if with a flash , it became Now in this case it may be objected that a crystal of the sodic sulphate hvdrate was derived from one of the following sources(1 ) from the air ( 2 ) from the oil , ( 3 ) from the cork , or ( 4 ) from the side of the flask .
( 1 ) It could not be derived from the air , either of the laboratory or o the garden , because the solution remained liquid long after the flask had been corked .
( 2 ) It could not have been derived from the oil , because this was dispersed through the solution in myriads of globules , without any nuclear action , and the flask was left to repose foi an our a er e oil had been so dispersed .
( 3 ) Nor could any nucleus have been derived from the cork , because the solution never touched it .
Ivor could a minute speck of the sodic sulphate hydrate have fallen from the cork ; for e latter had been put into hot water , out of which it was taken the momen -it was put into the flask .
It could not have been derived from any ot the hot water from the cork streaming down the side of the flas v o solution , because sodic sulphate in solution is in the non-nuclear anhydrous state , and also because two hours had elapsed between the cor " ing of the flask and the solidification of the solution .
( 4 ) A crystal could 1873 .
] Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
211 not have been derived from the walls of the flask , because the solution had been briskly boiled in it , so that steam escaped with considerable force from the neck after the small beaker had been put on .
Hence I am compelled to fall back on my former statement *\#151 ; namely , that the oil acted as a nucleus by the flattening of one or more of the globules against the wall of the flask into the form of film .
A globular flask , containing the same solution and the same oil , was corked , and the oil dispersed in globules .
It was left some hours , with occasional shaking , so as to rattle the solution against the side .
The rattling motion was purposely less energetic than iu the former case , to avoid splashing against the cork .
This solution crystallized after it had been left a short time at rest ; and it did so in large flat crystals , described in my second paper , very different from the minute radial action noticed when crystallization sets in from a point t. A similar flask , containing the same solution , was treated with oil of bergamot , a drop of which was allowed to trickle down the side of the flask .
As soon as the oil touched the solution , crystallization set in , the radiant-point coinciding with such point of contact , and the whole surface was covered with fine lines diverging from this point alone .
In another case a drop of the oil of rosemary was deposited on the centre of the solution .
On shaking the flask , the solution assumed the solid state .
Two flasks , containing the same solution , crystallized under the influence of oil of lavender .
Five flasks , with the same solution , crystallized under the action of sperm-oil .
Experiment 2 .
Sodic sulphate\#151 ; 2 salt , 1 water .
In three flasks the solution crystallized on the addition of olive-oil , the first immediately , and the other two after being shaken .
Experiment 3 .
Sodic sulphate\#151 ; 3 salt , 1 water .
This solution crystallized under the action of the oils of bergamot , almonds , colza , rape , and sesame .
Experiment 4 .
Sodic sulphate\#151 ; 3 salt , 1| water , in six flasks , all of which crystallized under the action of sesame oil .
Experiment 5 .
Potash alum\#151 ; 8 salt , 3 water .
The solution crystallized suddenly , as with a flash , on being shaken up with oil of olives .
This is the more remarkable , as the usual action of a nucleus is to produce a solitary octahedron , which growrs rapidly until the solution becomes solid .
This last effect was produced by a less violent shaking of the solution in contact with oil of lavender .
Experiment 6 .
Ammonia alum\#151 ; 8 salt , 7 water .
On shaking the solution with olive-oil it suddenly became solid , and of an opaque chalky white .
This selection from a large number of experiments maybe sufficient to * Phil. Trans. 1871 , p. 52 et seq. t Ibid. p. 54 .
On Supersaturated Saline Solutions .
[ Mar. 13 , answer my present purpose\#151 ; ilamely , to show that some supersaturated saline solutions really do crystallize under the action of other nuclei than a salt of the same kind as that of the solution operated on .
My experiments were performed in the open air , at temperatures between 30 ' and50 ' F. At comparatively low temperatures the shaking of the flask containing the solution sometimes produced a copious liberation of anhydrous salt , which rapidly combines with water and forms the 7-atom hydrate* ; but on allowing the flask to rest for some time , it generally happens that the solution becomes solid , and the 7-atom salt opaque white .
I may perhaps be allowed to state that my experiments , conducted as they were in the open air , were delayed by the rainy weather of last year .
There is , however , this advantage in wet weather , that the saline particles said to exist in the air are washed down and brought into solution , in which condition they are not nuclear , as I have already shown in the case of sodic sulphate , alum , and one or two other salts f. On the other hand , fine weather has its advantages ; not only are the surfaces of the solutions more active and the evaporative force stronger , but hydrated salts , said to exist in the air , part with their water of crystallization so readily as to reduce them to the non-nuclear condition .
This is especially the case with sodic sulphate .
I have already shown that supersaturated solutions of this salt may be exposed to the air , both in fine and wet weather , for a long time without crystallizing as well as the fact just noticed S , that a solution of a salt does not act as a nucleus to its supersaturated solution .
Moreover , if sodic sulphate exist in the dusty air of a room , it cannot retain the hydrated form during many minutes , but must rapidly pass into the anhydrous , in which it is no longer a nucleus .
* The view adopted by me that the supersaturated solution of sodio sulphate contains the anhydrous salt in solution , and that this is first thrown down on lowering the temperature , agitating , \amp ; c. , has been objected to , on the ground that , according to Lowel , it is the 7-atom hydrate that is really in solution and is deposited on cooling .
There are numerous proofs that it is the anhydrous salt which is really in solution ; these I have collected in two papers , contained in the ' Chemical News ' of 3rd and 10th December 1869 .
That the 7-atom hydrate is built up on the anhydrous salt may , I think , be shown by an experiment .
Two flasks containing a solidified solution of sodic sulphate of the same strength are heated over a spirit-lamp ; one ot the flasks is constantly turned round on the ring of the retort-stand until the whole of the salt has entered into solution ; it is then boiled , closed , and set aside .
The other flask , during the heating , is allowed to remain at rest over the flame for a short time , so as to liberate a portion of the anhydrous salt .
This flask is also boiled , although the operation is interrupted by violent bumpings .
It is closed and placed by the side o the other flask , under the same conditions .
When both flasks are cooled down to t e temperature of the air ( say about 50 ' ) , the flask containing the anhydrous salt will contain a crop of the 7-atom hydrate , built upon the anhydrous deposit .
The other as will have no crystalline deposit at all .
t Chemical News , February 4 , 1870 , p. 52 .
J Proceedings of the Royal Society , 1871 , p. 41 .
| Chemical News , February 4,1870 , p. 52 .
1873 .
] Dr. J. Jago on Visible Direction .
Seeing , then , that in the case of sodic sulphate , which is said to be always present in the air of rooms , and , according to MM .
Gernez and Viollette , even in that of the country , the chances are that it is most likely to be present either in the effloresced condition or in solution , and equally non-nuclear in both , I cannot help thinking that too much importance has been given to this part of the subject ; for if it be true , we are reduced to the dilemma , pointed out by M. Jeannel* , that there must be floating in the air specimens of all kinds of salts that form supersaturated solutions and crystallize by the introduction of a solid nucleus ; whereas there are some such salts which cannot exist in the presence of the oxygen or of the ammonia of the air .
II .
" Visible Direction : being an Elementary Contribution to the Study of Monocular and Binocular Vision .
" By James Jago , M.D. Oxon .
, A.B. Cantab .
, F.R.S. Received February 12 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) It is a well-known fact that when the eye has been displaced in its socket , as , for instance , by the tip of the finger applied to the eyeball through the eyelid , all objects seen by it deviate from their true directions ; and the author 's mode of proceeding in this paper is to inquire whether visual deviations that may be observed in arbitrary , but methodically devised , displacements of the eyeball in its socket follow any law , and then to consider how far the results thus derived are conformable with other monocular and binocular experiences , and how far they may be available in the explanation of certain phenomena that have been deemed anomalous in physiological optics .
Having pointed out means by which the ball may be easily displaced in any direction , he draws attention to the fact that , when by such means the apparent directions of objects seen by the eye are made to deviate from their true directions through fully 30 ' , the orbital muscles so fully retain their command over the movements of the eyeball , that that point in the visual field which was painted on the point of direct sight in the centre of the foramen centrale retina ) still continues to be there painted .
He shows this to happen whatever be the direction in which the eyeball is displaced in its orbit .
This fact being a fundamental one in the inquiry he has in hand , he puts it to nicer tests still .
He adjusts the two eyes , when equally displaced so as to cause objects to deviate greatly from their true directions , to look awhile at the top of a high object in the open air , and having obtained a strong spectrum of this object in the retina ) , he , with the released eyes , looks at an appro* Ann. de Ch. et de Ph. 4th ser. vol. vi .
p. ICG .

