A Relation of an Inland-Sea , near Danzick , yielding at a certain season of the year a green substance , which causes certain death ; together with an Observation about white Amber : Communicated by Mr. Kirkby , in a Letter written to the Publisher from Danzick Decemb. 19.1671 .
NEar a small village , called Tuckum , 2 1/ 2 German miles distant from this City west-ward , there is an Inland-Sea ( made by the meeting of three rivulets , some springs from the adjoining hillocks , and the descending rain and snow-water , ) of about half a German mile long and an eight part of such a mile broad .
It stretches NNW and S SW. About the middle of the bow on the East-side it discharges it self with a pretty stream ; as it also doth in another place more Southerly .
The soil of the ground round about seems to be sand mixed with clay .
Its shore generally sandy , as is its bottom also .
Its depth , where deepest , four fathoms ; but for the most part but one , or one fathom and an half .
It is stored with wholesome and delicate Fish , as Perch , Roch , Eles , &amp;c. and famed for a small fish , much esteemed here , and not much unlike a Perch ; only not so party coloured red , and having a larger head proportionable to its body , called the Cole-pearch .
The water sweet and wholesome ; but only in the three Summer months , June , July , and August , it becoms every year , during the dry weather , green in the middle with an hairy efflorescence ; which green substance , being by some vio lent wind forced a shore , and with the water drunk by any Cattel , Dog , or Poultry , causes certain and sudden death ; whereas at the same time , that a knowing and ingenuous person ( who first acquainted me with it , ) saw three dogs killed with it , the Horses that were ridden into the water beyond the place , where this green substance floated , drunk without any hurt ; and that also , during the same season , the water in the streams , that flow from it , are wholesome .
I shall endeavour , if you desire it , to procure some of that stuff , and get it examined by a chemical analysis .
One thing more I must add , that the chief Fisher here informed me , that two or three years ago fishing in this Sea , his net brought up a considerable large piece of white Amber , which as a rarity he presented to one of the chief Fathers of the Olive 's Abby , to which this Sea belongs .
Now since this Sea is not to be suspected to come from the Ocean , it lying so high , and about three German Miles distant from the Ocean ; and since also the neighbouring woods that bear none , but highly resinous trees , cannot be reasonably said to furnish such Amber , that conjecture , which imports that Amber is a bituminous fluid substance , hardned by the operations of the aqu-aerial particles upon it , may receive some confirmation from this account .

