IV .
" Anatomical Notices .
" By Professor ANDREW RETZIUS , of Stockholm .
Extracted from a Letter to Dr. SHARPEY , dated 10th May , 1855 .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. ( Translation .
) " 1 .
On the Form of the Cranium in the Embryo .
" So far as I am aware , due attention has not hitherto been given to the different forms presented by the cranium in its earlier stages of growth .
In the skeletons of early human embryos to be seen in most museums , the imperfectly ossified cranium is for the most part shrunk up and disfigured .
To obtain a correct view of the form of the cranial cavity , I first remove the skin , fascia and muscles ; I then , by injecting water through the vertebral canal , thoroughly wash out the soft brain and spinal cord ; and lastly , fill the cerebro-spinal cavity with quicksilver or with melted tallow , taking care not to distend it over-much .
The opening in the vertebral canal is to be stopped with a little plug of wood , and the preparation allowed to dry .
" In the skeleton of a human embryo of the fourth month , prepared in this way , the occipital bone was found to have the form of a funnel , the narrow part of which passed into the vertebral canal , as represented in the accompanying figure 1 .
" It thus appears that the human occipital bone , in its early condition , approaches in form to the vertebral canal , and in this respect also it resembles the occipital bone in several quadrupeds , which so obviously represents the first cephalic vertebra .
" For the sake of comparison , I divided the skull of another embryo of the same age into two halves by a vertical median section , washed out the brain and examined the preparation while it lay immersed in weak spirit of wine in a shallow glass capsule .
The occipital bone had the same funnel-shape as in the former case .
As development advances , the funnel-like form is gradually lost , whilst , on the other hand , the bone appears more deepened or tubular the earlier the embryo to which it belongs .
The same is true of quadrupeds .
" In the beautiful figure of the embryo-skull , given in Kolliker 's 'Microscopische Anatomy , ' B. II .
taf .
3 .
fig. 2 , the downward prolongation of the occipital bone appears much less , but whether less than it ought to be I cannot venture to say , as I happen to have no specimen of that age ( one month older than the one I have given ) with which to compare the figure .
Fig. 1 , / c_ V " The early form of the occipital bone I have here described becomes easily intelligible when we remember that the shape of the skull is regulated by that of the brain ; and that as the latter is at first greatly elongated , and its ganglia imperfectly covered , the cranium must then also have a correspondingly elongated form .
" 2 .
On the Antrum Pylori .
I have now for some time directed my attention to the determination of the true form of the stomach , and have become more and more convinced that the antrum pylori of the older anatomists ( ' Pfortnerhohle ' of the Germans ) is really a special compartment of the general cavity .
I have had occasion to make numerous examinations of the stomach in the bodies of middle aged women who died in the hospital , and found the form to be nearly as represented in figure 2 , where d d , ffindicate the antrum pylori .
This part is also distinguished by greater thickness of its muscular coat , more strongly developed glands , and the presence of the well-known plicae fimbriatae .
The commencement of the duodenum also forms a special rounded cavity , which I should propose to name the Antrum Duodeni , and which is characterized internally by the absence of valvula conniFig .
2 .
vents , and by the dense array of Brunner 's glands beneath its mucous membrane .
This part constitutes what has been called the fourth stomach of the Porpoise , and some other Cetaceans .
I may observe that the so-called ligaments of the pylorus are connected with the formation of the antrum pylori .
" 3 .
On the Fascia Superficialis .
" The accounts usually given of the fascia superficialis are for the most part very imperfect .
As far as I can judge , this fascia is in many parts of the body a constant membrane , and really appertains to the skin , as may be particularly well seen in the integuments of the back .
The cutaneous muscle of quadrupeds , in most cases , probably arises out of this fascia ; the muscular fibres being deposited , as I conceive , in the midst of its substance , and finally becoming covered by it as their perimysium .
In this way too , I imagine the platysma myoides and epicranius to be formed .
"

