Tide Observations at Otaheite , or Tahiti .
By Captain Sir E. BELCHER , R.N. Communicated by Captain BEAUFORT , R.N. , F.R.S. , 8fc .
Received October 31 , 1842 , -Read February 16 , 1843 .
H. M. Ship Sulphur , Spithead , SIR , July 22 , 1842 .
WVITH reference to that part of my instructions relating to noon high water at the Island of Otaheite , or Tahiti , I now transmit to you fair copies of the tide-journal registered at the island of Motouta , in the harbour of Papiete , as well as a short comparative series made at Point Venus .
The island of Motouta , the position before named , is the property of the Queen , and therefore free from intrusion or likelihood of disturbance .
It is situated well within the reefs , upon a coral flat , and any wave tumbling over the reef would expend itself before reaching the island .
It is , at the same time , within the direct influence of the deep water channel , to seaward , but entirely protected by the reef .
The swell does not enter by reason of the overlapping tongue of the northern reef , which , projecting westerly , receives and throws off the sea obliquely .
The gauge was placed in ten feet of water , and the batten in four .
In order to prevent any confusion , by change of observers , and thus destroying the interest which a single individual would feel if entrusted with the sole execution of this interesting duty , I selected one of my old followers , Mr. McKinley Richardson ; Mate , and placing him in entire charge of the island , firnished him with a tidegauge of my own construction , as well as a tide-batten .
The tide-gauge was constructed as follows ( Plate IV.):--A square wooden trunk of six inches aperture , a a , was closed at the bottom , but admitted water by small lateral holes , b b , six inches from the bottom .
This was to prevent any sudden wave which might roll in from affecting the mean level .
Within this trunk floated a glass cylindrical jar c , five inches in diameter by eleven in height , and ballasted with sufficient small shot to half immerse it .
It was rendered air-tight by means of the gauge-rod which screwed into an interior stuffed pad against the collar of the exterior .
The end of this rod was of brass , where it screwed into the float , but for ten feet above was of very light , tough cypress , half an inch in diameter .
At the summit of the trunk a cap was fitted , d , having three friction rollers , through which the rod traversed freely .
Above the trunk , secured to strong uprights , stepping into its 'exterior sides e , e , the graduated battens rose , having a clear space between them , and very neatly and strongly graduated with black divisions on a white ground .
The index had a clamp tube , through which the gauge-rod passed , f , when it was finally clamped at the first high water .
The index was a piece of machinery , per se , ff .
It was furnished with fore , as well as back , friction rollers , on springs , amounting to eight , by which it maintained its position steadily , and kept the gauge-rod perpendicular .
This machine had been well tested at Bow Island and its imperfections obviated .
This gauge was fixed upon the abruptsteep of the reef in ten feet water , and well ballasted by pigs of iron , on which it also rested .
It was distant from the wall thirty yards , and easily read off by a telescope .
It was registered during daylight ( from 6 A.M. until 6 P.M.)from the top , so that the least number indicated high water , and vce versed .
The tide-batten was lashed to the rocks ( similarly ballasted ) close to the wall of Motouta , in four feet water , and a thick plank enabled the observer to take the closest inspection .
It was registered from the bottom by day as well as night , and by day at the same periods as the tide-gauge .
The greatest number therefore indicates high water .
As it is almost impossible to determine the actual moment of high or low water , I had recourse to the method of equal altitudes , within two hours on each side ; as the results of my observations on the coast of Lancashire , where the water was subject to a rise and fall of thirty-one feet , always coincided up to the latest half hour .
I have been thus minute in order to satisfy any sceptical minds bent on the maintenance of the absolute noon period , that the minutest attention was devoted to this duty , and the coincidence of the two observers , five miles asunder , will in some points be found to agree minutely .
It will be seen by reference to the mean tide-levels , subsequently reduced for each day ( and not contemplated by the observers themselves ) , how strictly this duty was attended to , the range never exceeding two inches on either gauge or batten .
The position at Matavai was at the extremity of Point Venus , which was shielded in a great measure from the influence of the sea , by reefs similar to those at Papiete ; but here we had merely tide-battens ; the observations , however , were corroborated by repetitions within the rivulet , on a pole with crosses to mark the simultaneous levels , the more readily to deduce the moments of high and low water .
These were watched for the last week by Mr. CHRIsroPHER GORGoB , second master , my general assistant in the observatory , and superintendent of the tide-journals .
These data ( from the 22nd to the 27th ) are comparable with those observed at Mlotouta .
By these documents it will be observed that there were two irregular moments of high water during each twenty-four hours , and that their range was from 10 A.M. to 2h 27m P.M. , or nearly 4h 27m by day , and 31 20m by night .
The influences of the sea or land breezes are not apparent .
Indeed , if any such influence be admitted , it is decidedly at variance with the anticipated effect , as the night tides are higher with the land wind offshore .
With a strong land wind the height generally indicated the same as in calm .
But the mean tide-levels before alluded to , distinctly indicate an equable rise andfall .
The night tides observed at Point Venus do not so exactly accord with those observed at Motouta .
I much regret that we had not an opportunity of observing the whole lunation ; but I trust that sufficient has been advanced to satisfy you that no exertion was wanting in carrying through these intricate labours , and that even in their present form they may prove not altogether without interest .
I am Sir , Your most obedient Servant , EDWARD BELCHER , Captain .
Captain F. BEAUFORT , R.N. , Hydrographer .

