]\gt ; Radiation emitted by Palladium Anticathode .
Reference may also here be made to Clausius ' long-sustained attempt which received some fayour from Willard Gibbs in his Obituary Notice of Clausius , Collected Papers , , p. 263 ) to break up the Carnot cycle into two physically distinct parts , the direct transformation of heat into work at temperature , and a compensating transference of heat from temperature to a lower temperature ] The of the emitted by Palladium Anticathode in Rhodium , By E. A. OWEN , .
( Cantab .
) , .Sc .
( Wales ) , , London .
Communicated by Prof. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. Received Decellbel 28 , 1917 .
) [ PLATE 3 .
] The sis of a of rays from an bulb by Hection at a crystal face shows that bulb emits a continuons spectrnm of radiation upon are })( a few ( yths which stand out ) romiuently from the rest , these being the characteristic of the metal of the anticathode .
Much note has been taken erto of the eneral radiation , more attention been paid to that the secl.ttm in the immediate vicinity of the characteristic .
In the present vork an atteml ) is made to obtain fuller knowledge of the general radiation ' studying the absorption coefficients of the ill the three elements rhodium , , and silver .
In the particular is used as the metal of the anticathode .
The apparatus used in the investigation is the -ray spectrometer , full description of which 1nay be found in Bragg 's book on " " -ray and Crystal Sllucture , \ldquo ; p. 22 seq. A beam of rays , leaving the anticathode at a grazing , pass through slits before falling on the crystal .
The slit nearer to the crystal is ovable and can be brought up very close to the crystal .
After reflection , the beam passes through a third slit on its ) .
to the ionisation chamber .
We shall alhnde these three slits as the bulb slit , crystal slit , and chamber slit lespectively .
It is essential in an investigation of this nature to use a crystal which gives Mr. E. A. Owen .
The ) sorption of the intense reflections as well as good resolution .
It is not always possible to obtain these two requirements in the same crystal .
Rock salt , for.instance , fairly intense reflections , but the definition as a rule is poor ; a maximum , instead of being confined to a few minutes of arc , is spread over comparatively big angles .
The reason for this is that the crystal is not an accurately built one .
It is made up of a number of small crystals that are slighdy out of alignnlent , and when the crystal is rotated the reflection takes place successively at the faces of the smaller crystals .
Another crystal may , on the other hand , good definition , but the atoms of which it is composed are not such as to give intense spectra , because the intensity of the spectra depends , amongst other factors , upon the absorption coefficient of the rays in the crystal , the distribution of weight among the reflecting planes , and the thermal movement of the atoms , each of these factors depending upon the atoms composing the crystal .
The diamond is a crystal which would meet the above two requirements satisfactorily , but as a crystal of this substance was not available a search had to be made for another which would serve the purpose .
proved satisfactory .
The reflections from the ( 111 ) face of this crystal were good both as ards definition and intensity .
The structure of the crystal has not been solved , but a Laue photograph taken by passing the rays through it in a direction pe1pendicular to the ( 111 ) face , i.e. , along the axis , points to a simple structure .
photograph is given in Plate 3 .
Sp of Palladium .
In order to map the spectrum of the rays emitted by the bulb , the first step is to determine accurately the position of the crystal and the ionisation chamber when a known wave-length is reflected into the chamber .
The intense -line was chosen for this purpose .
The carborundum crystal is set up on the revolving table of the spectrometer and the crystal slit brought as near as possible to it .
The crystal slit is narrowed to mm. and the chamber slit left wide open .
In a rough preliminary examination the position of the ionisation chamber when the characteristic radiation is reflected into it is approximately found .
The chamber is kept stationary in position whilst the crystal is rotated , * The writer is greatly indebted to the Carborundum Company , Trafford Park , Manchester , for supplying him with excellent specimens of very nearly ) crystals of this substance .
He also desires to express his sincere thanks to Mr. G. G. Blake , Richmond , in whose laboratory the Laue photograph of the crystal was taken , for supplying the necessary apparatus , and for giving liberally of his time to assist with this part of the work .
( b ) Proc. , ) , Plute 3 .
Lauc photograph of a crystal of Carl ) unduul .
Rays through the in a direction at right angles to the ( 111 ) face .
Diagram showing detail spots observed .
emitted by Palladiurn observations of the ionisations produced being taken every two minutes of of rotation of the crystal , and every minute of arc in the immediate hood of the maximum .
From these observations the exact position of the crystal when it reflects the characteristic line is determined .
The crystal is fixed in the position just found , and the chamber slit narrowed to mm. The chamber is now rotated in the same as the crystal was rotated previously .
The sharpness of the definition of the reflected beam was very , and the position of the chamber when the ionisation produced be mined very so accurately indeed that it could be used to measure the glancing angle of the rays on the crystal after applying the necessary zero currcrlion of the spectrometer scale .
Having now fixed the positions of the crystal and the chanlber for one known , the spectrum can be mapped throughout its entire rangeStarting with the crystal and chamber in the positions determined , the chamber is rotated at double the rate of the Cl.ystal , and readings taken every two minutes of arc of rotation of the crystal .
The spectrum was examined in this way from a point just beyond the lon .
characterisfic ray to the shortest ray emitted by the bulb .
The form of the spectrum turned ont very approximately the same from each determination , showing that the bulb was working steadily .
An example of a determination is plotted in Angle Rsys on ysta 1 FIG. l.\mdash ; Spectrum of the rays from a palladium anticathode .
The general scattering of the rays by the crystal was inappreciable .
No deflection of the leaf of the electroscope was observed during an exposure of 4 this was the exposure in each position when the spectrum was mapped\mdash ; when the chamber was set at an angle different from double the glancing angle at which the rays fell upon the crystal .
It was important to investigate this , in order to be certain that the effect observed when chamber was in its correct position relative to the crystal was due to regular Mr. E. A. Owen .
The Absorption of the reflection of the rays at the crystal face , and not to a general scattering of the rays by the crystal .
Infornvation thj Curve .
The relation between the wave-length and the glancing angle is given by the equation , where is the order of the spectrum and the distance between the reflecting planes .
If and are two wave-lengths reflected at angles of incidence and respectively , then , for the same order spectrum , If the glancing corresponding to a given wave-length in the spectlum is known , then the wave-length corresponding to any other glancing angle can be calculated .
The mean value of the -line of palladium obtained by Brag by reflection in calcite and diamond is cm .
, and , in the case of carborundum , this is reflected at an angle of The waveof the ] of palladium , calculated from the present results , is cm .
, and that of the -line cm .
The accuracy of the last figure is not as as that of the -line .
These values are in close agreement with the valucs previously obtained by Brag .
* The energy in the spectrum is localised in the characteristic wave-lengths of the metal of the anticathode .
Integrating the spectrum curve as plotted in fig. 1 , it is found that the ratio of the intensity of the wave-lengths between the points A and to that of the wave-lengths between the points is , so that , in this particular case , there is almost as much in the characteristic rays ils in the whole of the rest of the spectrum investigated .
The ratio of the intensity of the radiation between and and that between and is .
This ives approximately the ratio of the intensity of the -lines to that of the and -lines .
This integration was also carried out experimentally by , the crystal at a definite rate through each of the maxima , and noting the total amount of ionisation produced in each case .
The mean value obtained for the ratio by this method was , which agrees very closely with the value just obtained by the direct integration of the spectrum curve .
The spectrum shows a minimum of intensity at the glancing angle corresponding to a wave-length cm .
This suggests selective absorption of this wave-length by the crystal , which would be the case if the characteristic radiation of the series of one of the atoms composing * W. H. Brag , ' Phil. Mag vol. 29 , March , 1915 .
Radiatio emitted by a Palladiur Anticathode .
the crystal were excited .
From ations on other crystals , and in view of the results that are to follow , we would assign this wave-length , namely , cm .
, to the -line of the series of silicon , assuming that the -radiations are of constitution similar to the -radiations .
The -lines of the -radiations of oxygen and carbon , calculated on the basis of the relative yalues of the of aluminium , oxygen , and carbon , as experimentally determined by Barkla and White , *work out to be about cm .
and ) .
spcctively .
These ures are in fair agreement with those ( Ieduco by Barkla ) the ionisation method , but somewhat higher thttll the ed by him the absorption lnethod .
Anothel ' feature of the spectrum is the rather prominent luaxinlum at about ) , corresponding to a wave-length of about cm .
It is hoped later to investigate this region of the spectrum more in detail than bas done } ) to the esent .
The emitted by the bulb under the conditions of working in the experiment as about cm .
} ) ectrum shows that , fro1u to that of the longest elistic wave-length of the thode , there exists ) band of -lengths , and in this particular case ) lave iensities remained proximately constant .
It is , of , to that distribution of energy in the vary to the st of the bulb , and it would be of interest to find what efIccl the iteration and current would have the of the curve .
The insitics of rent Ord , of jristic of It will be necessary to know how the intensities of the spectra decline as we to , in order to account for some apparent ularities observed in the absorption of rays from different parts of the These were measured in the case of the two peaks , the and lines respectively , and in each case the rate of decline was the Different of lits were used , but it was that tlus had but a slight effect )( } the intensities .
The intensities of the as follows:\mdash ; These arc plotted in fig. 2 , and it will be seen that they fall along a smooth Curve , except for the fourth order , which is too .
The planes parallel to and White , ' Phil. Mag vol. 34 , October , 1917 .
appreciable difference was observed in the amount of ionisation produced in chambcr for a given exposure when the absorbing screen was placed near the crystal and when it was placed near the chamber slit .
It was finally fixed.at about 2 cm .
in front of the chamber slit .
The ionisations produced in the chamber , with and without the screen in of it , were cmitted by a Palladinm Anbicathode .
measured , and the value of the absorption coefficient determined by means of equation I , where is the initial intensity , and I the final intensity after traversing a screen of thickness cm .
The the method of measurenlent employed depends upon the constancy of the bulb , but , by measuring the ionisation without the screen before and after that with the screen , and multiplying observations , fairly accurate mean values were ) ined for the absorption coefficients .
The present is to be regarded as a prelimi1tary one , and it is hoped with the new apparatus now under construction to employ a nlethod which will be in( lependent of the output of the bulb both as wavelength and intensity .
The values of the ab sorption coefficients here refer to the total absorption of the radiation in the absorbing screen .
This absorption is made up of the ) sorption and the { iuorescent absorption , the latter being itself constituted of the absorption of the various fluorescent X-radiations , , excited in the absorbing screen , together with the corpuscular radiations which accompany each of these fluorescent radiations .
We have then , where } ) total } ) tion C the scattering coefficient , and the fluorcscent coefficient .
Barkla finds that the scattering of -rays of very short wave-length by equal masses of various substances varies only little with the atomic weight of the scattering element .
There is a slight increase of the mass scattering coefficient with an increase in the atomic weight of the scatterer , but this crease is more marked with X-radiation of greater wave-length , nnti1 for waves it is very con .
As we are dealing here with short waves we may assume with ) introducing serious error that the mass scattering coefficient is constant for the absolbing substances we are using , and also that it is independent of the wave-length over the range of wave-lengths that we are .
The value by Barkla for , when the of the radiation is short , is .
This is small compared with the values of the total absorption efficient found for the elements rhodium , dium , and silver , with the wave-lengths here employed .
It does not exceed 4 per cent. of the smallest value of , so that its effect is almost within the limits of experimental error .
We shall , however , apply this correction for the scattering to bring the results into line with those ah.eady published by Barkla and White*for the light elements , in whose case the scattering plays a prominent part .
In fig. 3 , the logarithm of , i.e. , the logarithm of , is plotted against the logarithm of the corresponding wave-length in the case when the * Barkla and White , .
cit. FIG. 3 Absorption of the btained whree curves 1ndare vuear together , and in order to avoid confusion only the rllodium c is included in the diagram .
The graph shows that the absorption of the rays is normal until we reach the point , where , as we proceed to shorter wave-lengths , the absorption coefficient increases rapidly and follows approximately the curve ABC .
except for a singular point , which is very far removed from this curve .
The reason for this apparent irregularity will shortly be explained .
Beyond the point the absorption culve follows approximately a straight line course .
The radiations corresponding to this latter part of the curve constitute the " " end radiations\ldquo ; of the bulb .
Radiation ernitted by a Anticathode .
To explain the existence of the curved portion ABC of the absorption curve , we have to refer to the spectrum of the rays from the bulb mapped out in .
It will be seen that the radiations reflected at angles greater than have superposed upon them radiations of shorter wav -length which constitute the second order f$pectra of the shortest waves emitted by the bulb .
It efore to be expected that the mean wave-lengths of the rays corresponding to ) curved of the absorption curve will be shorter than those calculated from the of incidencc on the umption .
that the rays are all of the first order spectrum .
Consequently the absorption hcient of the rays in bhe absorbllg screen will be too small .
The effect of the superposed order spectra will be considerable for radiations reflected the crystal face at angles in the .
of , because the intensit of the second order ) forms a fairly percentage of the total intensity of the radiation in this portion of the .
On the other , the effect of the superl ) sition of second on the of the characteristic lines will be small , the intensity of these lines is so great compared with that of the radiations superposed upon them .
This is the reason why the point in absorption curve , which represents the absorption of the intense -line , is so far removed from the curve ABC .
It will be seen from the curve that the correction applied to the observed value of the orption coefficient of the -waves to the correct value is quite appreciable .
Jn the case of the -wave , however , which is represented by the point , the correction is negligible .
The exact shape o# the observed absorption curve depends upon the form of the spectrum emitted by the bulb , and it should be pointed out that the dotted portion ABC represents only very roughly the conditions obtaining in the particular case in questio ] ] .
The above considerations show that the homogeneity , or , in other words , the purity , of the characteristic lines emitted by a bulb and ] ated by reflection at a crystal face will depend , to a certain extent , upon the state of working of the bnlb .
Calculation of True Absorption of in Assuming that the longer wave-lengths in the spectrum are modified by the superposed wave-lengths of the second order spectra of the shorter wave- lengths , we can easily calculate the true absorption coefficient of each wavelength in the spectrum .
Let be the intensity of the shorter wave superposed upon the longer wave whose intensity is , so that the total intensity is .
If be Mr. E. A. Owen .
The Absorption of the the intensity of the wave after transmission an absorbing screen of thickness cm .
, we have where is the true total absorption coefficient of the longer wave in the screen .
Similarly for the shorter wave-length where is the true total absorption coefficient of the shorter wave in the screen .
The value of the total coefficient , as measured in the present work , is giveu by the relation i.e. so that , ( 1 ) which ives the value of , the true total absorption coefficient of the wave without the superposition of the shorter component .
In the present case it suffices to consider only the superposition of the second order spectra , since we are only investigating that portion of the spectrum from the shortest wave-lengtbs to those of the characteristic lines .
This forms but a small part of the whole spectrum , and for waves we would have to consider the superposition of spectra of higher order than the second .
The expression for the true total absorption coefficient in the genel'al case when several spectra are superposed upon the wave-length considered would be ( 2 ) expression holds for any wave-length in the spectrum .
To evaluate the ( expression on the right-hand side of equation ( 1 ) , we require to know the intensity of the shorter wave-length , that of the wave-length , and the true total absorption coefficient of the shorter wave-length ; is known , the quantity measured in the experiment .
An examination of the end radiations of the bulb showed that the rays reflected at definite in this part of the spectrum were homogeneous as far as could be dete , rmined by absorption in sheets of silver .
The short waves superposed upon the longer waves in the region ABC of the absorption curve will be the second order spectra of these homogeneous radiations , and since the rate of decline of intensities of the various order spectra is known emitted by Palladium Anticathode .
from fig. 2 , which is assumed to be the each wave-length in the spectrum , initial intensity of the shorter wave can be calculated .
Also the true total absorption coetticient of this radiation is directly determined in the experiment .
form of the lapped out on different occasions showed the same characteristics , and the relative intensities of the different wave-lengthfi remained approxi1nately constant .
The intensity of the wave- length may therefore be obtained by the calculated intensity of the shorter from the observed total intensity .
1Ve have therefol.e the data required to calculate the value of tlJe true total absorption of the pure radiation to any part of the spectrum .
Carrying out this calculation for the points in the ABC , the calculated points fall very approximatel .
along the continuation of the straight line DC up ) the corresponding to the point P. Afterwards there is a rapid fall , until point is reached at which the characteristic radiation is excited , when the absorption coefficient begins ) increase again with increase of wave-length 01 the radiation .
Table I gives the true fluorescent coefficient rhodiull , palladium , and silver for a number of .
The figures rJive the observed values corrected for and for the eneral radiation by the bulb .
Table I. The slope of the straight line gives the index three very approximately , so that the relation between wave-length and the absorption coefficient becomes where the value of varies for different substances , but is a constant for VOL XCN.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. E. A. Owell .
The Absorption of the Rtlbsanc ovel of between the absorption bands of substance .
This confirlnht the relation already obtained by and .
the absorption of the end-radiations of a Coolidge tube in miniunl , coppel , and lead , and that btained } ) Barkla and White in the case of the The -length to the cieristic Rof a Substance .
The point at which the characteristic radiation of the absorber is excited is definitely marked .
The ption c show that the characladi/ tion of the abso ) ber is not excited by a radiation of a wavelength eqnal to that of the acteristic wave of the substance .
It requireq a shorter -length to do this .
When the ] which excites the aracteristic radiation is reached , both the and the -lines are nlitted tether ; it does llot possible to excite the -radiation without ) the -radiation .
The approximate values deduced from the lion curves for the wave-length necessary to excite the characteristic liations of dium , and silvcr are given in Table II .
Table II .
AgPdRh A Ls stic r In each case the critical wave-length lies in the neighbourhood of the -line of the spectrum , which points to the -line as being the critical wave-leng necessary to excite the characteristic radiation of a substance .
Ledoux-Lebard and investigating this point by another method , have arrived at the same conclusion .
They examined the K-radiations of tungsten , which consist of four lines similar to those in the se1ies of palladium .
Applying different to the tube , they found that to cite the -ray had to be reached before the axacteristic lines wele elnitted .
BraggS suggests that characteristic rays of a substance might folm a Hull and Rice , ' Phys. Rev vol. 8 , , p. .326 .
Barkla and White , .
cit. Ledonx-Lebald and Dauvillier , ' Comptes Rendus , ' December , 1916 .
S W. H. Brag , , ' Phil. Mag vol. 39 , March , nitted by lladium Anticathode .
system which oan only be excited as a whole .
decide whether it is necessary to excite the -ray before the other rays are excited , more observations will have to be taken of the absorption coefficients in neighbourhood of the critical point .
This at present in } ( 1 ) A is given of some preliminary experiments carried out viCh the rays irom ordinary -ray bulb .
( 2 ) A spectrunn of ' the lavs from a ) anticathode is ) tained ovel a limited of wave-lengths by reHecLion in the ( 111 ) of a carborumdum crystal .
The spectrmn shows that the bulb emits a con tinuous band of wave-lengths upon which are superposed the .
rays oi the metal of the anticathode , and , under the conditions of working in case , the relative intensiGies of the in the lemined mately cnstant .
( 3 ) There is a of intensity in the pectrum ' to the cm .
On the umption t the minim is due to the elective absorption 01 this in the , the cm .
{ to the -line of the of silicon .
} experimental results of alltl White on the -seties of the elements Al , , and , the } values deduced for the -line of the -series of oxygen are cm .
reslJectively .
( 4 ) Assuming 's mean value of the of palladium to be .
the values are obtained for the of the -and -lines : cm .
( 5 ) The absorption coefficients of the rays from the bulb have measured in rhodium , palladium , and silver .
The results show thaC the relation between wave-length } ) absorption coefficient is expressed by tho relation where is the fluorescent coefficient and is a constant for a iveu substance over the ge of wave-lengths betweell the absorption bands of that substance .
The critical wave-length necessary to excite the characteristic of a substance lies in the neighbourhood of the -ray of substance .
The -ray is not excited until the -ray is excited .
( 7 ) It is pointed out that the purity of the characteristic lines emitted by a bulb and isolated by reflection at a crystal face will depend to a certain extent upon the of working of the bulb .
In conclusion , I wish to express my indebtedness to Prof. .
H. Brag , , for his kindness in putting his spectrometer at my disposal , without which the work could not ) undertaken .
Also , my best thanks are due to Prof. A. W. , for the valuable help he has given me 352 Dr. A. E. H. Tutton .
hout the course of the work .
lSelenic Acid and lron.\mdash ; I ?
eduction of Selenic Acid by Nascent Hydrogen and Sulphide .
of Ferrous Selenate Double Selenates of Iron Group .
By A. .
H. TUTTON , D.Sc .
, M.A. , F.B.S. ( Received February 7 , 1918 .
) Exceptional difficulties hay been met with in the preparation of the iron ( ferrous ) roup of double selenates of the monoclinic isomorphous series , and some new and unexpected chemical facts have been revealed , which form the subject of this communication .
When the author , in pursuing the course of the crystallographic and physical ation of the double of this grand series on exactly parallel lines to those followed in the completed investigation of the corresponding double sulphates , arrived at the iron gToup , three difficulties were encountered .
The first was that of preparing the simple salt ferrous selenate , common to the group .
The second was the rapid decomposition , with brown depositio1l , of the aqueous solution of any ferrous selenate obtained , also that of the mixed solution obtained by to the latter solution a solution of the molecular equivalent of the alkali selenate , with the object of preparing one of the four salts of the roup , The third culty was offered by the fact that no crystals of the ferl.ous salt were ever obtained at all .

