431 Dr. D. Ferrier on the Brain of .
May 13 , 1875 .
Dr. J. BURDON SANDERSON , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for aem .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recom-lended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as allows:\#151 ; William Archer , M.R.I.A. ames Risdon Bennett , M.D. )ietrich Brandis , Ph. D. , F.L.S. ames Caird , C.B. 'rof .
John Casey , LL. D. mgust Dupre , Ph. D. , F.C.S. ames Geikie , F.R.S.E. ames Whitbread Lee Glaisher , M.A. John Baboneau Nickterlien Hennessey , F.R.A.S. Emanuel Klein , M.D. E. Ray Lankester , M.A. George Strong Nares , Capt. R.N. Robert Stirling Newall , E.R.A.S. William Chandler Roberts , F.C.S. Major-General Henry V. D. Scott , R.E. , C.B. 'he Croonian Lecture , " Experiments on the Brain of Monkeys " ( Second Series ) , was delivered by David Ferrier , M.A. , M.D. , Professor of Forensic Medicine , King 's College .
Communicated by Dr. Sanderson , V.P.R.S. Received April 27 , 1875 .
The following is an Abstract:\#151 ; This paper contains the details of experiments on the brain of monkeys , ipplementary to those already laid before the Society by the author , hey relate chiefly to the effects of destruction , by means of the cautery , f localized regions previously explored by electrical stimulation .
Twenty-five experiments are recorded in detail , and the individual tperiments are illustrated by appropriate drawings .
The results are defly summed up as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
Ablation of the frontal regions , which give no reaction to electrical emulation , is without effect on the powers of sensation or voluntary 'otion , but causes marked impairment of intelligence and of the faculty \#163 ; attentive observation .
2 .
Destruction of the grey matter of the convolutions bounding the ssure of Rolando causes paralysis of voluntary motion on the opposite de of the body j while lesions circumscribed to special areas in these involutions , previously localized by the author , cause paralysis of volun-iry motion , limited to the muscular actions excited by electrical stimula-on of the same parts .
VOL. XXIII .
2 M 432 Dr. D. Ferrier on the Brain of Monkeys .
[ May 27 3 .
Destruction of the angular gyrus ( pli causes blindness of tht opposite eye , the other senses and voluntary motion remaining unaffected .
This blindness is only of temporary duration , provided thf angular gyrus of the other hemisphere remains intact .
When botl are destroyed , the loss of visual perception is total and permanent .
4 .
The effects of electrical stimulation ?
and the results of destructior of the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolutions , indicate that they are the centres of the sense of hearing .
( The action is crossed .
) 5 .
Destruction of the hippocampus major and hippocampal convolution abolishes the sense of touch on the opposite side of the body .
6 .
The sense of smell ( for each nostril ) has its centre in the subi-culum cornu ammonis , or tip of the uncinate convolution on the same side .
7 .
The sense of taste is localized in a region in close proximity to the centre of smell , and is abolished by destructive lesion of the lower pari of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe .
( The action is crossed .
) 8 .
Destruction of the optic thalamus causes complete anaesthesia of the opposite side of the body . .
9 .
Ablation of the occipital lobes produces no effect on the specia senses or On the powers of voluntary motion , but is followed by a state of depression and refusal of food , not to be accounted for by mere constitutional disturbance consequent on the operation .
The function oi these lobes is regarded as still obscure , but considered to be in some measure related to the systemic sensations .
Their destruction does no !
abolish the sexual appetite .
10 .
After removal both of the frontal and occipital lobes , an animal still retains its faculties of special sense and the powers of voluntary .
motion .
The Society then adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess , to Thursday May 27th .
May27/ 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Mr. I. Lowthian Bell and the Right Hon. Sir James Colvile were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ;

