]\gt ; 46 Mr. R. A. Sampson .
[ Dec. 11 , Professor L. C. informs me " " that photographs have been tained at the Harvard College Observatory of all the stars hitherto discovered whose spectra consist mainly of bright lines and are of t'ne class discovered by Rayet .
Part of these have been raphed at Cambridge , and the remainder in Peru He states that they may be divided into three sub-classes , according to the characters of their fifteen bright lines .
He says , further : " " Photographs of the spec- trum of planetary nebulae have also been obtained .
They resemble closely the spectra described above , except that the line 500 is strongly marked ; 470 is seen in most of them , while the lines due hydrogen are also \ldquo ; It wouId seem that Professor hotographs do not permit him to distinguish the positions of the bright blue band in some of these stars , for he gives for all the stars the same namely , We regret that the insufficiency of our instrumental means has left our examination of the spectra of these stars less complete than we could wish .
Onr observations appear to us , however , to be on the main object of our enquiry , namely , that the bright blue band in the three Wolf-Rayet stars in Cygnus , and in D.M. is nob coincident with the blue band of Bunsen flame . .
' On Stokes 's rent Function By R. A. SAMPSON , Fellow of St. College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor GREENHILL , F.R.S. Received November 24 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) In Maxwell 's 'Electricity and Magnetism , a view is put forward , in accordance with which we may regard any irrotational motion in a perfect liquid , for which the velocity potential is a solid zonal harmonic , as due to the juxtaposition at the origin , and upon the axis of symmetry , of sinks and sources .
But , in a liquid , any irrotational motion which is symmetrical with respect to an axis gives a velocity potential which may be expressed as a sum of a series of solid zonal harmonics , their common axis the axis of symmetry , and their origin arbitrary , provided multiple image of four or five stars is surrounded five bright and seven faint stars ; all within a radial distance of of arc measured from centre to centre of the multiple star .
The multiple image measures in length and in breadth .
" " No. \mdash ; Its photo-image is in diameter .
It is encircled by three stars of lesser brightness , and six faint ones within a radial distance cf S9 ' ' , i.e. , are nins stars within a ce of ] * Vol. 1 , chapter 1890 .
] On Stokes 's Current Function .
47 it is excluded from the region to which the expressions apply .
The position of the origin upon the axis is itrary , sincs by a transference formula we may pass from one to another .
Let us now consider the system formed by a line source and a line sink , of equal gths , ( xtending along the .
axis from an arbitrary to infinity in opposite dirsctions .
Such a system I shall an extended doublet , of strength , where is the strength per unit length of that part which lies on the positive side of the origin .
By the superposition of two extended doublets , of equal but opposite strengtlJs , we can produce a sink or a source upon the axis .
Hence , in a liquid , any irrotational motion which is symmetrical with respect to an axis , may be produced by superposition of extended doublets , whose origins depart bnt little from an arbitrary point on the axis of symmetry .
Now for an extended doublet of strength , Stokes 's current fullction , for any point distant from the the origin , is .
For let be the distance of the origin of the doublet from the origin of coordinates , and let be the of current function aIly point .
Then if o be the current function for a source of strength , at the point of axis , we get . .
Mr. R. A. Sampson .
[ Dec. 11 , Therefore Whence disregarding a constant .
But , and clearly , .
Hence Therefo ] and mr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) , where , disregarding a constant .
Thus if may , by properly choosing the function .
( 2 ) , where is the current function for any irrotational motion in a liquid , symmetrical about the axis of Again , if Therefore 1890 .
] On Stokes 's Current Function .
49 the expression ( 1 ) , and consequently also ( 2 ) , satisfies the equation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , ol I shall il , When the motion is rotational , ( 3 ) no holds .
In fact , as is well known , we have under all circumstances where is the resultant molecular rotation at the point .
, if there is molecular rotation in the fluid , ( 3 ) is replaced by .
Again , if stand for operator being the azitlutha.l angle about the axis of , it may be seen at once that ( 4 ) .
Collsequently may be writtell .
Consequently is a solution of ( 3 ) .
Or consists of a solution of ( 3 ) together with the tial at the point considered of a distribution of mass of density at any point molecular rotation at that point .
This resuIt is given by Basset , ' Hydrodynamics , ' vol. 2 , S306 .
I give one other general result .
Qince . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, the circulation in any evanescible circuit drawn in a meridional plane is .
( 5 ) , VOL. XLIX .
Mr. B. A. Sampson .
where the integration extends over the area embraced by th This result enables us to transform readily from cylindrical other systems of coordinates .
For instance , consider polar coordillates , , and let us find the circulation in a small rectangle bounded by Let the velocities in the direction of perpendicular to it .
Then the circulation in this circuit is Now Thus the expression in squal'e brackets is\mdash ; or .
( 6 ) , stands for Other applications will be found 1890 .
On Stokes.s Current Function .
Reverting now to the expression ( 1 ) , it will be seen that the direct distance of any point from a point on the axis of vmmetry plays the same part in theory of Stokes 's function that is played by its reciprocal in the theory of the function .
to distributions of matter .
Thus if , be the coordinates of point upon axis , of ally other point , the distance between these points , , may be developed in a convergent , say or , according as is greater or less than ) eing a certain function of , and wo see from ( 6 ) tlJat ( 7 ) .
Now it is evident from the analogue of zonal harmollics that it is proper to discuss the , and other soIutions of ( 7 ) hefore considering .
applications of Stokes 's current function to the motion of liquids .
It is with this discussion that the first three chapters are occupied , and , as might be expected , the theory closely resembles that of spherical harmonics .
I have accordingly made free use of the order and methods adopted by Heine in his 'Handbuch .
Kugelfunctionen , ' more especially in chapters and ii , * where the necessary changes were slight .
Moreover , the functions I deal with have themselves been discussed by Heine , on a different metlJod , and most of the expressions which I find in the following pages are riven by him .
Full references to these are given in S18 .
The idea of developing the solutions of in a manner more or less analogous to that employed with regard to Laplace 's equation appears to ve been first used by O. E. Meyer , obtains the equation ( 7 ) , shows that the functions contain as a factor , and that they obey ( 28 ) , ) apterii .
An expression which shows the relation of the functions to zonal harmonics was given Butch and functions of fractional order have been used by Mr. Hicks , S in connexion with his researches on the theory of the motion of vortex rings .
The fuller account of such functions which is found in following pages may be of intercst in relation to these ; for example , I would refer to S63 , chapter * The following sections of the first chapters contain methods or results which , so as I aware , are original:\mdash ; 12 , 13 , 17 , 21 , 25 , 26 , 29 , 30 , 32 , 36 , 38 , 40 , 42 .
remainder of the paper is orig , except where specially ackno edged , or here a result is too well known for that Lo be necessary .
' Crelle , ' vol. 73 , 1871 .
' London Math. Soc. Proc vol. 8 .
See p. 143 , chaptcr S 'Pbil .
' 1884 , 1885 .
On Stokes 's Current Func.tion .
[ Dec. 11 , The applications to hydrodyuamics which I here give are of mathematical interest rather than physical .
They are conhiefl nexion with the motion of viscous liquids .
In ' Crelle-Borchardt , ' vol. 81 , 1876 , obel.beck bas given the velocities produced in an infinite viscous liquid by the stea tead motion of an ellipsoid ough it , in the ection of one of its axes , and from these Mr. Herman*has found the equation of a family of surfaces ontaining the stream lines relative to the ipsoid .
In chapter v , Stokes 's cul.rent is obtained by a direct process flnx of a viscotls liquid past a spheroid , and it is sbown that the result diflers only by a constant multiple ft.om the particular case of Mr. Herman 's integral .
Some minor applications at.e also given , namely , the solutions are ined for { lux past an approximate sphere , and past an approxspheroid .
The so he solution is also obtained for flux through a l)yperboloid of one sheet , ere 1 , where ib appears thab the stream re hyperboloids of the system .
A particu lar case is that of flux throug 1 a clrcu 1 a ' hole a wall , and this is interesting because we see that , by supposing internal friction to take place 1n the liquid , we find an expression which gives zero velocity at the sharp edge , and thus avoids the difficulty which is always present in the solution of such problems on the supposition that the liquid is perfect .
A comparison may be instituted between this problem , and that of the effect a disturbing periodic force upon a dynamical system capable of vibrating alone with a period equal to that of the force .
It is well known that the amplitude of the vibration induced appears infinite , if we totally isregard friction , and this difficulty is met by the fact that the damp1ng effect of even slight friction is rendered considerable by high velocities .
Now a viscous iquid can move irrotationally , and , if there were no friction at the boundaries , this is the class of motion it would take in cases of flux past or tbrough obstacles .
But if the obstacle terminated in a sharp edge , this would the velocity there infinite , and the { riction , however inconsiderable elsewhere , would here become of account .
The conditions which were necessary for the existence of in'otational motion the liquid would no longer ) , and the whole charactcr of the solution would be c.hanged .
This would at any rate seem to apply to cases in which the whole motion is slow , and when , consequently , the , boundary conditions which must hold are pretty well understood .
The paper concludes with an attempt to discuss the flux past a spheroid , or through a hyperboloid ab whose boundary there may be slipping .
The current function is not , obtained , all that appears that it differs from parallel case of the sphere in being far more complicated than when there is no slipping .
From * ' Quart . .
Math 1889 ( No. 92 ) .
1890 .
] Presents .
53 this we except the case of the flux through a circular hole in a plane wall , when the solution for no slipping satisfies the new conditions .
Presents , December 11 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Adelaide :Royal Society of South Australia .
Transactions and Proceedings and Report .
Vols. IX , XII .
1887 , 1889 ; nsactions .
Vol. XIII .
Part 1 . .
Adelaide 1890 .
The Society .
Amsterdam :Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen .
Jaarboek .
1889 .
; Verhandelingen .
Deel XXVII .
msterdam 1890 ; Verslagell en Mededeelingen ( Letterkunde ) .
Deel Amstdm 1889 ; Verslagen en Mededeelingen Natuurkunde ) .
Deel .
Anuterdam 1890 .
The Academy .
London :British Museum .
Catalo .
of Birds .
Vols. XIII , , XVIII .
1890 ; of the Fossil Reptilia and Amphibia .
Part 4 . .
London 1890 ; Guide to Exhibition Galleries of the Department of Geology and Palaeontology .
Parts 1\mdash ; 2 . .
London 1890 .
The Trustees .
Society of Antiquaries .
Index to the Archoeologia , vols .
I\mdash ; L. .
London 1889 .
The Society .
Lund :Uuiversitet .
rskrift Mathematik och Naturvetenskap ) .
Tom. .
Lund 1888-89 ; Ditto ( Medicin ) .
Tom. .
Lund 1888-89 ; Ditto ( Philosophi , \amp ; c Tom. .
Lund 1888-89 ; Ditto ( Theologi ) .
Tom. Lund 1888-89 .
The University .
hester :\mdash ; Public Free Libraries .
Thirty-eighth Annual Report , 1889-90 . .
Manchester 1890 .
The Committee .
Melbourne :Royal Society of Victoria .
Proceedings . .
II . .
Melbourne 1890 .
The Society .
Mexico :Sociedad Cientifica " " Antonio Alzate Memorias .
Tomo III .
Num. 7\mdash ; 12 .
Tomo .
Num 1-2 . .
Mexico 1890 .
The Society .
Milan : .
Istituto Lombardo di Scienze Lettere .
Atti della Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola dalla sua Istituzione in poi .
Vols. 8\mdash ; 9 . .
Milano 1888 , 1890 .
The Institute .
Montreal :McGill College and University .
Calendar .
1890-91 . .
Montreal 1890 .
The College .
Mumoh : .
Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungsberichte .
Bd .
II .
Heft 1-2 . .
ltIunchen 1890 .
The Academy .

