1894 .
] Niagara Falls as a Chronometer of Geological Time .
145 ifc constituted in my own experiments the chief and most striking phenomenon : and it was to the colours which appeared during the bright phase that my attention was exclusively directed , the tints of the relatively insignificant " luminous trails " being too faint to be distinguishable .
It is clear that the momentary excessive brightness of the positive image is no less essential than the dark interval ( or negative afterimage ) for the generation of the phenomenon of recurrent vision which forms the subject of the present paper .
III .
" Niagara Falls as a Chronometer of Geological Time .
" By J. W. Spencer , Ph. D. Communicated by Professor T. G. Bonney , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
Conjectures as to the Age of Niagara Falls.\#151 ; Prior to the writing of the present paper , most of the conjectures as to the age of the Falls have been based simply upon the supposed uniform rate of recession .
Thus , in 1790 , Andrew Ellicott assigned 55,000 years as the age of the Falls .
In 1841 , Sir Charles Lyell allowed 35,000 years ; in 1886 , Professor R. S. Woodward , after three surveys had been made , calculated the age as 12,000 years ; and later , Mr. G. K. Gilbert , supposing the recession to progress at the maximum axial retreat alone , reduced the age of the Falls 6,000 years .
This latter was not intended as an estimate , as he fully recognised that such a time must have been greatly lengfliened by many changing conditions .
The rate adopted by the first two writers was only conjectural , as no surveys had then been made .
Three surveys had been completed before the writings of the latter two writers , and I have had the benefit of a fourth .
Woodward 's calculation was upon the mean mathematical enlargement of the Horseshoe guif at the end of the chasm , which rate was less than the geological rate of retreat .
The author 's method differs from the others in that it takes into consideration the rate of recession throughout the changing episodes of the river , which have been entirely discovered by Gilbert or himself .
His computations make the age surprisingly near to the conjecture of Lyell .
Modern Topography.\#151 ; This section of the paper gives such details as bear upon the subject , some of which do not appear elsewhere .
3 .
Geology of the District.\#151 ; Besides what may be found in other works , there are several measured sections and descriptions showing the amount of work the river had to do .
Several figures illustrate the varying conditions .
yol .
lvi .
L 146 Dr. J. W. Spencer .
Niagara Falls [ June 7 , 4 .
Ancient Topography.\#151 ; The Niagara is a modern river .
It crosses a broad ancient valley nearly 100 ft. deep , in the vicinity of the Falls .
This depression has largely escaped the attention of even geologists , and entirely in its bearing upon the history of the Falls .
The peculiar extension of the chasm at the Whirlpool , and the buried valley of St. David 's , have been considered by many as part of a preglacial Niagara river .
This is now found to be a branch of a buried valley outside the Niagara canon , and hundreds of feet shallower , with ancient sloping \/ -shaped walls , whilst those of the gorge are vertical .
It is only an incident that the modern river touched this drift-filled valley , but it has given rise to the elongation of the chasm at the Whirlpool .
The drainage of the tableland in ancient times was across the direction of the Niagara river , and was strongly marked by bold limestone ridges , which have only been penetrated by the Falls in modern times .
Even the Erie basin emptied by a route several miles west of the Niagara .
5 .
Basement of the River.\#151 ; In order to explain the work done by the river , this feature is described , part of the banks of the original course , before sinking into the chasm , being on hard rocks , and part on local deposits of drift .
Even the deserted river banks carved out of such accumulations are still well preserved .
6 .
Discharge of the Niagara River.\#151 ; This is only important in order to learn what is the discharge of the Erie basin alone ; for during a considerable portion of the life of the Niagara only the Erie waters fell over the falls .
The drainage of the Erie basin is 3/ 11 of that of the four great upper lakes .
7 .
Modern Recession of the Falls.\#151 ; From four surveys , extending over a period of forty-eight years , the mean modern rate of recession of the Falls is found to be 4'175 ft. a year .
Its rate is variable with secular episodes of rapid medial recession , followed by its cessation along the axis , but with increased lateral retreat .
This cycle appears to take about fifty years .
But the detailed figures are given with a map .
This rate is , however , excessive , on account of the geological conditions favouring the rapid modern recession , but the rate taken for the mean recession under the conditions of the modern descent of the river with the present discharge is 3'75 ft. a year .
8 .
Sketch of the Lake History and the Nativity of Niagara River.\#151 ; -At one time a great proportion of the lake region was covered by a single sheet , or the Warren Water .
Upon its dismemberment\#151 ; in part , at least , by the rise of the land\#151 ; one large lake was formed occupying the basins of Huron , Michigan , and Superior ; and another a portion of the Erie extending into the Ontario basin .
The waters in these two basins were subsequently lowered , so that they fell to their rocky eastern rims , and the three upper lakes discharged by way of Lake Nipissing and the Ottawa river , and the Niagara had its birth , 1894 .
] as a Chronometer of Geological Time .
draining only the Erie basin .
Then the Niagara river descended 200 ft. In course of time the waters subsided 220 ft. more , but eventually they were raised again 80 ft. at the mouth of the Niagara , thus reducing the descent of the river , from the head of the rapids above the falls to the foot of the last rapids in its course to the lake , to 320 ft. During the lowest stage , Ontario lake receded twelve miles from the end of Niagara gorge , where the falls had been located at their nativity .
9 .
Laws of Erosion.\#151 ; Theoretically the erosion varies as the height of the falls and the volume of the water , but some of the work is converted into heat .
The recession is largely due to the work being expended in the undermining of the hard capping rocks , by the removal of the underlying shales .
The rate of the modern recession has been determined under the changing conditions of erosion , so that the theoretical variations of other portions of the river 's work includes their modification .
10 and 11 .
Episodes of the River and the amount of Recession in each .
Euration of each Episode.\#151 ; First episode : Water falling 200 ft. , in volume 3/ 11 of modern discharge ; gorge , 11,000 ft. long ; duration , 17,200 years .
Second episode : river descending 420 ft. , in three cascades ; first stage , only the discharge of the Erie waters ; length of chasm , 3,000 ft. ; duration , 6,000 years ; second stage , drainage of all the upper lake ; length of chasm , 7,000 ft. ; duration , 4,000 years .
Third episode : same volume and descent as in last , but the three falls united into one fall ; length of chasm , 4,000 feet ; duration , 800 years .
Fourth episode : volume of water as at present , the level of lower lake as to-day ; first stage , a local rapid making the descent of 365 ft. ; work particularly hard ; length of gorge , 5,500 ft. ; duration about 1,500 years ; the second stage as at present ; work easy ; length of canon , 6,000 feet ; descent of water , 320 ft. ; rate of recession here taken as the full measured amount of 4475 ft. a year ; duration , 1,500 years .
Thus the age of the falls is computed to be 31,000 years , with another 1,000 years as the age of the river before the nativity of the Falls .
The turning of the Huron waters into the Niagara was about 8,000 years ago .
A difficult question was the amount of work done in each episode .
This was in part determined by the position of the remaining terraces corresponding to different stages of the river , and by the changing effects of erosion .
12 .
Relations between the Terrestrial or Epeirogenic Movements and the Falls.\#151 ; The deserted beaches in the lake region have been deformed by unequal terrestrial elevation , and this movement has caused the changing conditions of the river in a large part , such as the turning of the Huron waters from the Ottawa valley to the Erie basin .
This deformation affecting the Niagara district , since the commencement of the river epoch , amounts to 2'5 ft. per mile ; east of Lake Huron , 148 Dr. Y. Harley .
The Influence of Intra-Venous [ June 7 , 4 ft. per mile ; and at the outlet of Lake Ontario , 5 ft. per mile ; all in a north-eastward direction .
Taking the amount of movement in each district as representing also the proportional measure of time , then calculations can be made upon several of the beaches , and in terms of the age of Niagara their antiquity can be inferred .
The importance of the computations in this paper is that they support the correctness of the calculated age of the Falls .
In the application of these results it appears that the rate of terrestrial uplift in the Niagara district is about L25 ft. a century ; 2 ft. east of Lake Huron , and 2'5 ft. at the outlet of Lake Ontario .
Here was found the first long looked-for indication of the rate of uplift .
13 .
The Relation of Niagara Falls to Geological Time.\#151 ; From the study of the deserted beaches , it appears that the commencement of the lake epoch was as long before the birth of Niagara Falls as the Falls are old , so that the beginning of the lake age was probably 64,000 years ago , or perhaps even 80,000 years .
Against this conjecture we have as yet no proof .
On the other hand , some suppose the lakes to have been held in by glacial dams , continuing for long episodes at the same level , and by the withdrawal of the glaciers the waters were lowered in addition to the terrestrial deformation .
With this assumption , the retreating ice continued until the end of the Iroquois episode , or from our computations until 14,000 years ago .
But here we need much more investigation .
The present paper is merely a contribution in a field of work in America , in which only a few workers have so far contributed the detailed labours upon which this study is built .
14 .
The Fnd of the Falls.\#151 ; From the rate of terrestrial elevation and the rate of recession of the Falls , it appears that if the movements continue as they have been progressing , then before the Falls shall have retreated to Lake Erie , the Niagara outlet will have been deserted , and the waters of the upper lakes will discharge by way of Chicago into the Mississippi drainage , a change analogous to the turning of the Huron waters into the Erie valley from the Ottawa outlet .
This change might be expected 7,000\#151 ; 8,000 years hence .
IV .
" The Influence of Intra-Venous Injection of Sugar on the Gases of the Blood .
" By Vaughan Harley , M.D. , Teacher of Chemical Pathology , University College , London , Grocer Research Scholar .
Communicated by George Harley , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 9 , 1894 .
In a paper on " The Effects and Chemical Changes of Sugar injected into a Vein " *I showed that when grape sugar is injected * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1893 .

