340 Development of Apteryx .
Electrical Resistances .
[ Jan 21 r I 1 III , " Additional Observations on the Development of Aptery| By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , F.K.S. , Professor of Biology | in the University of Otago , Dunedin , New Zealand .
Re_ ceived December 15 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is founded upon the study of three embryos of Apteryx australis obtained since the author 's former communication on this subject was written .
The youngest ( stage E ' ) is intermediate between E and F of the former paper , the next ( F ' ) between F and G , the most advanced ( G ' ) between G and H. In E ' the characteristic form of the beak has already appeared .
In F ' the pollex is unusually large , giving the fore-limb the normal characteristics of an embryo wing .
Several important additions and corrections are made to the former account of the skull , especially with regard to the pre-sphenoid region , the basi-cranial fontanelles , and the relations between the trabecular and para-chordal regions .
The account of the shoulder-girdle is amended .
In Apteryx ow\amp ; ni the coracoid region is solid , and no pro-coracoid appears ever to be formed : in A. australis a ligamentous pro-coracoid is present at a comparatively early period ( stage F ' and perhaps E ' ) .
An intermedium is present in the carpus in all three specimens in addition to the elements previously described .
The brain in stage G is interesting , as being at what may be called the critical stage ; the cerebellum is fully developed , and the optic lobes have attained the maximum proportional size and are lateral m position .
In all essential respects the brain of this embryo is typically avian .
a Differential Electrostatic Method of measuring High Electrical Resistances .
" By Major Gardew , R.E. Communicated by Sir William Thomson , D.C.L. , P.R.S. Received January 6 , 1892 .
The following method has been found useful for determining the relative value in insulating quality of small samples of materials , the insulation resistance of short pieces of cable , and other very high resistances .
The arrangement is also suitable for continuously indicating the position on any electrical circuit , worked at a high pressure , of the On measuring High Electrical Resistances .
i *i of mi : !
\#171 ; l on 1a a M resultant fault or point of zero potential ; and for measuring the insulation of the circuit while the pressure is on .
Connections.\#151 ; The method consists in connecting the quadrants of an ordinary quadrant electrometer to the terminals of a source of fairly high E.M.F. , while the aluminium vane or needle is connected to earth .
The resistance to be determined is connected to one side of this arrangement , and a variable resistance of the same order of magnitude to the other side , the free ends of each being connected to earth .
The centre of the battery , or other source of E.M.F. , is then earthed for a short time , bringing the needle to the zero reading , and , after the removal of this earth connection , the needle will travel to one side or the other , unless the resistance to the passage of electricity from each pole to earth is exactly equal , in which case the needle will remain permanently at zero .
By observing the motion and varying the comparison resistance accordingly , this balance is soon arrived at , if within the range of variation provided .
The arrangement is shown in the figure , where B is the battery or other source of E.M.F. , Q the quadrants , N the needle , X the unknown l'esistance , and R , the variable resistance .
The earth contacts are shown by E. 342 Major Cardew .
On a Differential Electrostatic , [ Jan. 2i } IS commonly called the two kinds of electricity in any time , however extended , and at any instant at an equal rate .
I have recently drawn attention to this law as determining the potentials from earth of the two sides of any system of electric supply ( vide my paper read on the 23rd April , 1891 , at the Institution of Electrical Engineers ) .
If we conceive , therefore , a perfectly insulated voltaic battery , the potentials of the terminals of this source from earth would be deter-mined by momentarily connecting any one of the metal plates with the earth .
Under such conditions , the smallest leakage from either pole to earth through a resistance amounting to many millions of megohms , if unbalanced by any leakage from the other pole , must rapidly reduce the potential of the imperfectly insulated pole to zero .
The only limit , therefore , to the sensibility of the method is the imperfection of the insulation of the measuring apparatus , and this insulation , with proper precautions , can be easily maintained at a value exceeding 1,000,000 megohms .
Sources of E.M.F.\#151 ; A very convenient source of E.M.E. for the purpose is the arrangement of small zinc-copper couples in series , moistened by dipping the whole into a pan containing acidulated water , which is in use at the Physical Laboratory at Glasgow University .
Pour hundred such couples are usually arranged on an ebonite support , and the sensibility with this number is ample.* A still better source , when alternating currents are available , is a special form of transformer , the secondary coil being suspended in air by a silk cord .
The highest insulation can thus be secured .
But when the resistance to be balanced possesses appreciable capacity , the use of an alternating E.M.F. is unsuitable , on account of the masking of the effect of the leakage current proper by the capacity current .
Comparison Resistances.\#151 ; The variable resistance is , most conveniently , some material of uniform cross section , so that its resistance varies as the length put in circuit .
Heels of white silk , cotton , thread , and string are very suitable , and with a few such simple materials , balances can be Obtained through a great range of value , although no multiplying or dividing power is possible .
Thus , a white embroidery silk has been found to have a resistance of approximately 250,000 megohms per inch ; a green thread1 partly silk and partly cotton , 10,000 megohms per inch in a dry atmosphere ; || !
f ] p f * The mahogany legs supplied with this battery should be replaced by grooved ebonite legs , to improve insulation , and it is also of advantage to insert under each leg a piece of sealing-wax .
The couples require to be taken out and cleaned occasionally ; if allowed to get dirty , the E.M.F. becomes low .
1892 .
] Method of measuring High Electrical Resistances .
343 an ordinary measuring tape , 1400 megohms per inch , \amp ; c. , down to a piece of wet tape , which gave 64,000 ohms per inch .
P These resistances are , to some extent , affected by the degree of i humidity of the air , but , when necessary , they can be rapidly standard- , -ge(i with sufficient accuracy by determining one of the lowest by the usual method ) ; or , as a check , when time allows , a highly insulated condenser can be shunted by a length of silk , and the loss of charge , in a given time , measured .
JJnsymmetrical Insulation of Apparatus.\#151 ; If , from any cause which cannot be discovered or removed , the insulation resistance of the apparatus is unsymmetrical , indicated by the Deedle taking up a false zero when connection is made between the battery and quadrants , symmetry can be always secured by connecting a length of silk , found by trial , between the more highly insulated pole and earth .
Limits of Accuracy.\#151 ; The accuracy attainable by this method depends on the sensibility of the electrometer and the potential difference employed .
With an ordinary suspension , however , it has been found that with a battery giving about 350 volts the difference in reading between that with the centre of the battery earthed and that with the earth connection made at 1 volt from the centre amounted to 12 scale , i d f divisions .
This sensibility should , therefore , be ample to secure an accuracy within 1 per cent. , which , for resistances of several thousand megohms , is generally sufficient .
Leakage Indicator.\#151 ; The same principle of balance may be usefully adapted as a leakage indicator for electric supply circuits worked at high pressure .
For this purpose a special pattern of electrometer is requisite .
The quadrants are connected , respectively , to the two mains constituting a circuit , and the needle to earth .
If the insulation of the entire circuit is good , the potential from earth of the two mains will probably be nearly equal , and the needle will remain at zero ; any leakage taking place will disturb the balance to one side or the other . .
By temporarily switching a small leak first on one side and then on the other , and noting the effect , the absolute value of the insulation may be approximately assessed .
The arrangement is not applicable , however , to a concentric system of mains with alternating currents , or in any case where the capacities-are large and seriously unequal .

