II .
" On the Synthesis of Succinic and Pyrotartaric Acids .
" By MAXWELL SIMPSON , Esq. , M.B. Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND .
Received April 10 , 1861 .
( Abstract .
) Since my last communication to the Society* , I have succeeded in obtaining the cyanide of ethylene in a state of purity by a slight modification of the process I have already given .
A detailed account of it will be found in the paper which accompanies this abstract .
This is , I believe , the first example of a diatomic cyanide .
It has the following properties in addition to those I have already enumerated:-Below the temperature of 37 ?
Cent. it is a crystalline solid of a light-brown colour , above that temperature it is a fluid oil .
Its specific gravity at 45 ?
Cent. is 1'023 .
It has an acrid disagreeable taste .
It is neutral to test-paper .
It is decomposed by potassium , cyanide of potassium being formed .
Its solution in water is not affected by nitrate of silver .
Heated with nitric acid , it gives succinic acid and nitrate of ammonia .
Heated with muriatic acid , it yields the same acid and muriate of ammonia .
It forms an interesting compound with nitrate of silver , which was obtained in the following manner:-About three equivalents of crystallized nitrate of silver were rubbed up in a mortar with one equivalent of pure cyanide of ethylene and a considerable quantity of ether .
The ether was then poured off , and the residual salt dissolved in boiling alcohol .
On cooling , the alcohol became a mass of brilliant pearly plates .
Submitted to analysis , these yielded results agreeing with the formula C4 H4 Cy , +4 ( AgO , NO , ) .
The crystals are soluble in water and alcohol , insoluble in ether .
When heated , they melt and explode like gunpowder .
They do not detonate on percussion .
This compound may possibly throw some light on the constitution of the fulminates .
I have also slightly modified the process I gave in my last note for succinic acid .
The modified process is very productive , and yields the acid at once in a state of purity .
From 1500 grains of bromide of ethylene I obtained 480 grains of succinic acid , or nearly 33 per cent. It gave on analysis 40'54 instead of 40'67 per cent. of carbon .
We are now enabled , thanks to the researches of Messrs. Perkin and Duppa and of M. Kekule* , to build up three highly complex organic acids ( succinic , paratartaric , and malic ) from a simple hydrocarbon ; and , what is more important , we are enabled to do this by processes every stage of which is perfectly intelligible .
With the view of ascertaining whether or not the homologues of succinic acid could be obtained in a similar manner , I have endeavoured to prepare pyrotartaric acid from the cyanide of propylene , propylene being the radical of propylglycol .
Preparation of Cyanide of Proylene.-A mixture of one equivalent of bromide of propylene and two of cyanide of potassium , together with a considerable quantity of alcohol , was exposed to the temperature of a water-bath for about sixteen hours .
The alcohol was then filtered and distilled .
A liquid residue was thus obtained , which was dissolved in ether .
The body left on evaporating the ethereal solution was then submitted to distillation .
Almost the entire liquid passed over between 265 ?
and 290 ?
Cent. The fraction distilling between 277 ?
and 290 ?
Cent. was collected apart and analysed .
It gave 62'0 instead of 63'8 per cent. of carbon .
This body cannot be obtained purer by distillation under atmospheric pressure , as it suffers partial decomposition during the process .
The properties of this cyanide very much resemble those of the preceding .
It differs , however , in its physical state , which is that of a liquid at the ordinary temperature of the air .
It is soluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
It has an acrid taste .
It is neutral to test-paper .
It is decomposed by potassium , cyanide of potassium being formed .
Its solution in water does not precipitate nitrate of silver .
Ieated with potash , it is resolved into an acid and ammonia .
Formation of Pyrotartaric Acid.--A mixture of one volume of cyanide of propylene and about 1volume of strong muriatic acid was exposed in a sealed tube to the temperature of a water-bath for a few hours .
On cooling , the contents of the tube became a mass of crystals .
These were dried and dissolved in absolute alcohol .
The residue obtained on evaporating the alcoholic solu* Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society , July 1860 ; and Bulletin de la Societ6 Chimique de Paris du Aoit , 1860 , p. 208 .
r tion was then twice crystallized from water , and finally digested with ether .
The body left on distilling off the ether is the acid in question .
The numbers obtained on analysis agree very well with the formula of pyrotartaric acid ; I got 44'6 instead of 45'4 per cent. of carbon .
It had also all the properties ascribed to this acid by Pelouze and Arppe .
The crystals were colourless , and very soluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
It had an agreeable acid taste .
It became semi-fluid at 100 ?
Cent. , and melted completely a few degrees above that temperature .
Long-continued ebullition in a glass tube converted it into an oil , which was insoluble in cold water , and no longer affected litmus-paper , but which gradually dissolved in hot water , recovering at the same time its acid reaction .
The following equation will explain the reaction which gives birth to this acid : C I , o Cy2+2 H Cl+8 HIO=C0 H1 08 , +2 ( N 11 C1 ) .
It is highly probable that there exists a series of isomeric acids running parallel to these , which may be obtained by similar processes from the diatomic radicals contained in the aldehydes .
Thus from cyanide of ethylidene '(CH 1 , Cy2 ) we may hope to get an isomer of succinic acid .
I propose to continue my researches in this direction , and to extend them to the cyanides of the triatomic radicals .
III .
" On the Elimination of Urea and Urinary Water , in relation to Period of the Day , Season , Exertion , Food , and other influences acting on the Cycle of the Year .
" By EDWARD SMITH , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 15 , 1861 .
The reading of this paper was not conrcluded .

