514 Dr. J. Larmor .
Influence of a magnetic force on the motions of oscillating and revolving electrified particles possessing inertia ( ions or electrons ) in a magnetic field ; and it is thus shown that the broadened edges of the line ought , on Lorentz 's view , to be emitting polarised light , viz. , plane polarised in directions normal to the lines of force , and circularly polarised in a direction along those lines .
This prediction has been experimentally verified by Zeeman , and has likewise been confirmed by myself .
The flame being looked at from a direction perpendicular to the magnetic field , the light which will be dispersed by the grating to form the extended borders of a line is plane polarised , with its electric oscillations normal to the field 's lines of force .
I hope to have the pleasure of communicating an English version of Professor Zeeman 's complete paper to the March number of the ' Philosophical Magazine .
' The Influence of a Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
" Communication from Dr. J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received and read February 11 , 1897 .
In the course of the development of a dynamical hypothesis* I have been led to express the interaction between matter and ether as wholly arising from the permanent electrons associated with the matter ; and reference was made to von Helmholtz ( 1893 ) and Lorentz ( 1895 ) as having followed up similar views .
A footnote in Dr. Zeeman 's paper has drawn my attention to an earlier memoir of Lorentz ( 1892 ) , in which it was definitely laid down that the electric and optical influences of matter must be formulated by a modified Weberian theory , in which the moving electrons affect each other , not directly by action at a distance but mediately by transmission across the ether in accordance with the Earaday-Maxwell scheme of electric relations .
The development of a physical scheme in which such action can be pictured as possible and real , not merely taken as an unavoidable assumption which must be accepted in spite of the paralogisms which it apparently involves , t was a main topic in the papers above mentioned .
The experiments of Dr. Zeeman verify deductions drawn by Lorentz from this view .
It might , however , be argued that inasmuch as a magnetic field alters the index of refraction of* circularly polarised light , which depends on the free periods of the material molecules , it must therefore , quite independently of special theory , * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , A , pp. 719\#151 ; 822 ; 1895 , A , pp. 695\#151 ; 743 .
f H. A. Lorentz , " La Thoovie Electromagnetique cle Maxwell , et ses Applications aux Corps Mouvants , " 'Archives Neerlandaises , ' 1892 .
Cf .
especially S 91 .
Magnetic Field on Radiation Frequency .
alter the free periods of the spectral lines of the substance .
Bat the actual phenomena do not seem to be thus reciprocal .
On the electric theory of light it is only the dispersion in material media that arises from direct influence of the free molecular periods , the main refraction arises from the static dielectric coefficient of the material , which is not connected with the periods of molecules.* From the phenomena of magneto-optic reflexion it may be shown that , on the hypothesis that the Faraday effect is due to regular accumulated influences of the individual molecules , it must be involved in the relation between the electric force ( PQK ) and the electric polarisation of the material ( f'g'li ) , of type / ' K-lp 4tt where ( ciC2c3 ) is proportional to the impressed magnetic field .
This relation , interpreted in the view that the electric character of a molecule is determined by the orbits of its electrons , simply means that the capacity of electric polarisation of the molecule depends on its orientation with regard to the imposed magnetic field , that , in fact , the static value of K , depending on the molecular configurations just as much as do the free periods , is altered by the magnetic field .
This relation agrees with the main feature of rotatory dispersion , namely , that it roughly follows the law of the inverse square of the wavelength .
The specific influence of the molecular free periods , that is , of the ordinary dispersion of the material , on the Faraday effect , is presumably a secondary one ; though it , too , follows the same law for different wave-lengths , in the case of substances for which Cauchy 's dispersion formula holds good .
It is this latter part of the Faraday effect that is reciprocal to Dr. Zeeman 's phenomenon .
The question is fundamental how far we can proceed in physical theory on the basis that the material molecule is made up of revolving electrons and of nothing else .
Certain negative optical experiments of Michelson almost require this view ; at any rate , they have not been otherwise explained .
It may be shown after the manner of ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , A , p. 813 ( and Dr. Zeeman 's calculation , in fact , forms a sufficient indication of the order of magnitude of the result ) , that in an ideal simple molecule consisting of one positive and one negative electron revolving round each other , the inertia of the molecule would have to be considerably less than the chemical masses of ordinary molecules , in order to lead to an influence on the period , of the order observed by Dr. Zeeman .
Bat then a line in the spectrum may be expected to arise rather from one of the numerous epicycles superposed on the main orbits of the various electrons in the molecule than from a main orbit itself .
* Loc .
cit. , 1 Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , A , p. 820 ; and 1895 , A , p. 713 .

