I. An Account of the Aurora Borealis , seen at London , on the 30th of March last , as it was curiously observed by Martin Folks , Esq ; R. S. Soc. BEing in the Street , between 8 and 9a Clock on Saturday last , ( 30 Martii ) I perceived a Light over the Houses to the Northwards , little inferior to that the Full Moon gives when she first rises .
Upon this , suspecting some such Meteor as we saw the last Year , I made all the hast I could into the Fields , where I immediately found my Conjecture verified ; and was for some time agreeably entertained with the sight of an Aurora Borealis , attended with most of the Phenomenon that have been described in that very remarkable one of the 6th of March , 1715-6 .
The whole Northern-Part of the Horizon was in~ the same manner covered with somewhat resembling a very considerable Light , whose lower part was pretty well defined by the common Edge of the Cloud , but the upper died away more gradually .
This upper Limb of the Light resembling the Arch of a Circle , whose highest Point between 9 and 10 of the Clock ( when the meteor was most considerable ) was elevated about 12 Degrees , and bore , as I imagined about 20 deg. Westward of the due North .
It touched the Horizon in the West at the distance of about 65 or 70 Degrees from the North , whence the whole intercepted Arc of the Horizon would have been of near 100 Deg .
had not some few Degrees in the East been hid by Clouds which lay between us and the Meteor .
The seeming black Cloud when I first saw it , ran nearly parallel to the Horizon , and at the distance of 6 or 7 Degrees : but in about half an Hour it changed its Figure very much , sinking down in the North to about half its height , and rising in the West near as much .
What I principally took notice of this for , was that the Light issuing from behind it did not change with it , but remained of the same Figure , however the Cloud approached or receded from differing Parts of its Limb .
There arose at first some Streams in the N. N. W , but of no considerable Length , few of them passing 5 Degrees above the Arch ; but beginning from behind the seeming Cloud , so as to be about 12 Degrees high in all .
They were Pointed at the Ends , and nearly vertical to the Horizon .
Between times there was nothing but the Arch to be seen , and that only resembling a common Aurora ; and again in an instant , by a sort of tremulous Motion , several Parts of it would appear converted into a vast number of parallel Streams , for the most part very little higher than the Arch it self .
About 20 Minutes before Ten , a small part of the Arch almost due North , grew remarkably lighter than the rest , and continued to increase for about half a Minute ; when there suddenly broke out some very ta l Streams of at least 60 Degrees high , as I found by one in particular which arose full North , and passing over the Pole Star itself , reached some Degrees beyond it .
This was the most remarkable time of the Appearance , some such Lances , though not so-high , immediately shooting out of the Place that first of all radiated , as did some more a good way to the East .
They were all nearly Perpendicular to the Horizon , and most of them did arise quite from the black Substance at Bottom , tho ' I saw some few that did not reach so low , appearing as if their lower Parts had been broken off .
Some of them were full as bright as any I saw the last Year , the Axes ( if I may so call them ) of some of the tallest Streams coming up very near to the Colour of that pale Fire we see in some sorts of Lightning .
About this time the Ground Westward was all covered with an odd sort of Mist , the same from which I remember last Year a great many People said there came an ill smell , which I did not at all perceive ; however as I remember it to be the very same Appearance , I thought it might not be improper just to take notice of it .
About 10 the Phenomenon very much decreased , and so continued till after 11 , only sending up now and then 2 or 3 Streams .
At half an Hour after 11 it was again pretty much increased , and I saw it again send out some Streams almost as considerable as any I had before seen this Evening ; the Arch yet continued , but not so entire ; and from what I could judge , its middle was some Degrees nearer the North than when I first took notice of it .
Till a quarter of an Hour before 12 the light continually abated , and then I left it ; but a Watchman , I ordered to bring me an Account of it next Morning , tells me it continued till towards Daybreak , but never streamed remarkably after I went away .
Tho ' I could not this time see any Stars through the black Matter at Bottom , I am sensible it was not a Cloud , tho ' it bore the resemblance of one : for when a real Cloud ( as several small ones did ) came over any part of it , their difference was very conspicuous .
I have since received two Letters , one from Wistich in the Isle of Ely , the other from within 14 Miles of the Bath , both which take notice of it , tho ' with no further Particulars , than that on Saturday Night , they had seen the same Light , tho ' not so considerable , as in the beginning of March the last Year .
II .
Guil-

