A paper was read , On the probable electric origin of all the phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism ; with an illustrative experiment .
By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. Corr. Mem. Inst. France , and of the Imp .
Acad. St. Petersburgh .
The authorbeginshis paper by a retrospect of the several discoveries on terrestrial magnetism made since the commencement of the present century .
Humboldt , by his numerous and accurate observations on this subject , laid the foundation of all the scientific knowledge relating to it , which we hitherto possessed .
The task of reducing these observations to definite principles , by subjecting them to calcu ?
lation , was undertaken by Biot ; and the conclusion which he drew from them was , that on the hypothesis of the earth 's being a great magnet , the facts would best accord with the supposition that its two poles are coincident , or indefinitely near to each other , at the centre of the globe .
The same result was also obtained , though by a different process of reasoning , by M. Kraft of St. Petersburgh .
It followed as a necessary consequence , that terrestrial magnetism observes a law different from that of a permanently magnetic body .
but identical with that of a body in which transient magnetism is excited by induction .
The law which obtains in the case of a sphere of iron rendered magnetic by induction was first investigated , in 1829 , by Mr. Barlow ; and also , by Mr. Charles Bonnycastle , Professor of Mathematics in the University of Virginia ; it has since been amply confirmed by the more elaborate analytical investigations of Poisson .
But the result of all these inquiries , instead of affording us clearer notions of the action of terrestrial magnetism , tended rather to perplex and obscure our views respecting its nature and operation .
While our knowledge was in this imperfect and almost retrograde state , a new light broke in upon us in the great discovery of Oersted , which , bydisclosing the intimate relation which electricity bears to magnetism , must be regarded as forming a new era in the history of this department of physical science .
The operation of the tangential force between a galvanic wire and a magnetic needle was pointed out by the author , in a paper which was read to the Royal Society in the year 18*2*2 ; and was still more fully examined by M. Ampere , who extended the investigation to the law of the reciprocal action of gal ?
vanic currents on one another ; and thence deduced a general theory of magnetic action .
Having established the general fact that the magnetism which is induced on an iron ball resides only on its surface , and acts according to the same laws as the magnetic influence of the earth , the author was desirous of ascertaining whether he could succeed in imitating the effects of terrestrial magnetism by distributing galvanic currents round the surface of an artificial globe .
This conjecture he put to the test of experiment , by having a hollow wooden globe constructed , sixteen inches in diameter , with grooves cut at all the parallels of latitude distant by 10 ?
from each other .
Copper wires were then laid in these grooves , and disposed so as to allow of the transmission of a galvanic current in similar directions through the whole system of these circular wires .
This being effected , it was found that a magnetic needle , properly neutralized , so as to be exemptfrom all influence from the earth , and freely suspended in different situationson the surface of this artificial globe , assumed positions exactly analogous to those of the dipping-needle in different parts of the earth .
The author has no doubt that if the electrical currents in this experiment could be increased indefinitely , the apparatus might be made accurately to represent every circumstance of magnetic dip and direction actually observed in nature .
It thus appears that all the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism may be produced by electricity alone : for it is evident , that in place of the needle employed in the experiment above described , the gal ?
vanic needle of Ampere might have been substituted , to the complete exclusion of the only magnetic part of the apparatus .
Thediscovery of Seebeck , that heat applied to a circuit of metallic conductors develops galvanism , and consequently gives rise to magnetic induction , supplies another link in the chain of evidence , that terrestrial magnetism is purely an electrical phenomenon , deriving its origin , during the diurnal revolution of the earth , from the action of the sun 's rays on successive portions of its surface , in directions parallel to the equator .
The probability , therefore , is now much increased , that magnetism is a quality not essentially distinct from electricity .

