Account of Experiments made on the Strength of Materials .
By George Rennie , jun .
Esq. In a Letter to Thomas Young , M.D. For .
Sec. R.S. Read February 12 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 118 .
] After taking a cursory view of the labours of others in this department of mechanical inquiry , Mr. Rennie proceeds to give an account of the apparatus which he employed , and of the result of his own experiments .
Of the resistances opposed to the simple strains which may disturb the quiescent state of a body , the principal are : the repulsive force , whereby it resists compression ; and the force of cohesion , whereby it resists extension .
On the former , with few exceptions , there is scarcely anything on record .
Lagrange , in his Memoir on the Force of Springs , published in 1760 , represents the moment of elasticity by a constant quantity , without indicating the relation of this value to the size of the spring : but in the Memoir of 1770 , on the Forms of Columns , when he considers a body whose dimensions and thickness are variable , he makes the moment of elasticity proportional to the fourth power of the radius:-but all these calculations , says Mr. Rennie , are inapplicable to columns under common circumstances .
The results of experiments are also extremely discordant ; for it is deduced from those of Reynolds , that the power required to crush a cubic quarter of an inch of cast iron is 200 tons , whereas in the author 's experiments upon cubes of the same size , the amount never exceeded five tons ; and although Mr. Reynolds probably employed metal cast at the furnace of Maidley Wood , which is very strong , yet this circumstance can have been but of little importance compared with the great disproportion of results .
Mr. Rennie employed four kinds of iron : the first taken from the centre of a large block , similar in appearance to what is usually called gun metal ; the second from a small casting , close-grained , and of a dull gray colour ; the third , horizontally cast iron , in bars three eighths of an inch square and eight inches long ; the fourth , similar bars cast vertically .
It appears from the annexed tables that the vertical castings are stronger than those taken from the block .
Some miscellaneous experiments relating to the different kinds of wood and stone are also added to those on the metals .
They show that little dependence can be placed on the specific gravity of the stone ; neither is hardness to be regarded as a characteristic of strength .
In the rupture of amorphous stones , Mr. Rennie remarks , that pyramids are formed , having for their base the upper side of the cube next the lever , the action of which displaces the sides of the cubes precisely as if a wredge had operated between them .

