An Account of some new Experiments on the fluoric Compounds ; with some Observations on other Objects of Chemical Inquiry .
By Sir H. Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read February 13 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , 2 .
62 .
] Since the date of those attempts of the author to decompose fluorine , of which an account has already been printed in our Transactions , and from which he inferred that pure liquid fluoric acid consisted of hydrogen united to a base which lie had not then been able to procure in a separate form , but which is detached from the hydrogen by various metals , he has made many experiments that in his opinion tend to confirm this idea , though all his attempts to effect the actual decomposition have been unsuccessful .
Fluate of lead , which , according to the author 's view of its constitution , consists of lead united to the peculiar fluoric principle , is not decomposed by dry ammonia ; but by liquid ammonia it yields oxide of lead , in consequence of the decomposition of water which gives oxygen to the lead , and hydrogen to the acid which now enters into the composition of fluate of ammonia .
2 i So also silicated fluate of ammonia , or fluoborate of ammonia , when acted upon by chlorine , yield no silica , or boracic acid , unless in consequence of the presence of moisture ; but they form muriate of ammonia , and either silicated fluoric or fluoboric gas .
When charcoal was ignited in either of these gases no decomposition was effected , but only a disengagement of a little inflammable gas from the charcoal .
Neither was liquid fluoric acid decomposed by charcoal heated to whiteness in a tube of platina .
According to the author 's experiments on the decomposition of fluor spar by sulphuric acid , the sulphate of lime which remains after complete decomposition weighs more than the spar decomposed in the proportion of 175 to 100 .
But in order to obtain this result , it is necessary to collect the very purest white Derbyshire fluor , and to distil repeatedly to dryness , after the addition of fresh acid at each repetition .
By computing upon the eighth result , and supposing the number representing calcium to be 40 , that for fluorine is estimated to be 34-2 .
By forming fluate of potash from a known quantity of subcarbonate , the number obtained for fluorine appeared to be about 32-6 .
From these experiments , and others made on the quantity of fluate of potash obtained from hydrate of potash , the author infers that the number representing fluorine may be estimated at about 33 .
Two cubical inches of ammoniacal gas , weighing 36 grains , were found to combine with one of silicated fluoric gas , which were found to weigh 110 7 , the number for which is thence inferred to be 984 ; and it is presumed to consist of two parts fluorine , and one of silicious basis .
The author has made many experiments with the hope of determining the quantity of oxygen in silica , but has not succeeded to his satisfaction .
However , since one part of silica requires more than three times its weight of potassium to decompose it , this seems to show that silica cannot contain much less than half its weight of oxygen .
But he has not been able to obtain its basis in a separate state so as to ascertain its exact nature .
Sir Humphry Davy has at various times made many experiments to endeavour to detect oxygen in chlorine , in conformity to the opinion still maintained by many persons , that this is one of its elements , but without success .
Sulphuret of lead when acted upon by chlorine , gave the muriates of sulphur and of lead , and not sulphate of lead , as might possibly be expected .
Neither is muriate of lead decomposed by sulphureous acid gas , which might be expected to take oxygen if any were present .
It appears , on the whole , to the author impossible to give stronger evidence of chlorine being undecompounded .
In his estimation it ranks with gold , silver , hydrogen , or oxygen .
He admits that persons may doubt whether these are elements , but thinks it not philosophical to doubt whether it has yet been decompounded .
In reply to some arguments lately advanced by Professor Berzelius in favour of the presence of oxygen in chlorine , deduced from the laws of multiple proportions , Sir Humphry Davy observes , that the fact is , that the oxygen which Professor Berzelius supposes to be in the chlorine is combined with the metals ; and that with respect to any regularities among multiple proportions , there is no general law observable .
Azote , for instance , combines with three volumes of hydrogen .
When combined with oxygen it may be united to X , 1 , 2 , or 1of the same body , and in combination with chlorine it unites with four volumes .
The author combats the notion of oxygen being considered as the principle of acidity , and contends that hydrogen enters into the composition of nearly as many acids as oxygen ; that chlorine and fluorine are merely bodies of the same class , which like oxygen combine with great energy , but do not owe these properties to the presence of any oxygen contained in them .

