483 The Influence of Pressure on the Boiling Points of Metals .
By H. C. Greenwood , M.Sc .
, Beyer Fellow of the University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received February 1 , \#151 ; Read February 17 , 1910 .
) Part I.\#151 ; Pressures below 700 mm. In a previous communication ( ' Proc./ A , vol. 82 , 1909 , p. 396 ) the approximate boiling points of a number of metals were determined at atmospheric pressure .
Apart from the question of finding the exact relation between the boiling point and pressure , it is an important criterion of any method for fixing the temperatures of ebullition to demonstrate that the experimental values obtained are dependent on the pressure .
It is specially desirable when dealing with substances boiling at temperatures above 2000 ' to have some evidence that the points indicated are true boiling points .
Previous work on the vaporisation of metals at different pressures has been confined to experiments in a very high vacuum* except for metals like bismuth , cadmium , and zinc , f which boil at relatively low temperatures under atmospheric pressure .
The observations were limited to very low pressures on account of the difficulty of obtaining any material capable of withstanding a vacuum at temperatures over 1400 ' and the consequent necessity for keeping the boiling point below this limit by using very low pressures .
Moreover in the case of the majority of the metals , c.g. , copper , tin , ebullition under reduced pressure has never been observed .
The difficulties indicated above were avoided by using a similar type of apparatus to that previously described , and arranging the whole furnace inside a vacuum enclosure , thus permitting of the use of graphite crucibles to contain the metal .
Thb apparatus used is shown in fig. 1 .
The actual heating arrangement is quite similar to that employed in the boiling point determinations at atmospheric pressure .
Electrical connections were made on to the base through the copper spring A and through the copper strips B ( insulated with mica ribbons ) to the water-cooled fitting C , which was electrically insulated by a rubber stopper .
The furnace was enclosed by a water-cooled tinned-iron cylinder , mounted on a ring which made an air-tight joint with the base plate .
Water circulation for the terminals was effected through the tubes P and Q. * Krafft , ' Ber .
, ' vol. 36 , No. 2 ( 1903 ) , p. 1690 .
t Barus , 'Bull .
U.S. Geolog .
Survey , ' No. 103 .
Mr. H. C. Greenwood .
The Influence of [ Feb. I : : \ * . . .
; .* .
* .
: r.v.w : INCHES Fig. 1 .
1910 .
] Pressure on the Boiling Points of Metals .
485 Considerable care was necessary in making the water connections inside the enclosure perfectly tight , as they were exposed to an external vacuum .
The side tube down which temperature readings were taken with the aid of the Wanner optical pyrometer , was kept clear from fumes by a slow current of nitrogen or hydrogen .
The gas was led in through the brass fitting F , which was fixed into the graphite tube K , the latter fitting inside the sighting tube .
An air-tight joint was obtained by the use of an asbestos washer , and electrical insulation was secured by asbestos washers round the side tube D and between the fitting F and the graphite tube respectively .
Observations of the surface of the metal were taken through the window M. The metal was contained in a long thin-walled graphite crucible , only metals unaffected by carbon having been studied in the present investigation .
Evacuation of the furnace was effected through a hole in the base plate .
On account of the liberation of occluded gas from the charcoal packed round the heating tube and the current of gas admitted at the side tube , a powerful pump was necessary to maintain a constant vacuum .
No difficulty , however , was experienced in keeping down the pressure to 10 cm .
of mercury .
The actual determinations were made in much the same manner as previously described for atmospheric pressure .
With several metals the effect of using different gases , c.g. , nitrogen and hydrogen , was investigated ; also the effect of momentarily stopping the current of gas .
Contrary to the experience at atmospheric pressure , where a very marked effect was noticed ( variations of the order of 100 ' being caused ) , no noteworthy differences were observed .
The slight influence of the gas may probably be explained by the fact that , at a low pressure , hydrogen would diffuse through the crucible walls into the column of metallic vapour more slowly than at atmospheric pressure .
As the temperature of the metals was raised , the different stages of the ebullition were quite sharply defined ( in general more clearly than at atmospheric pressure ) , and the results of individual experiments showed a very satisfactory concordance .
The absolute accuracy of the values obtained is probably of the same order as for those at atmospheric pressure .
In both series of experiments the metals used were of a high degree of purity .
A discussion of the accuracy of the temperature measurements will be found in the preceding paper .
The principal results of the investigation are enumerated in the following table ( p. 486 ) , each value being the mean of several concordant experiments .
From these values curves have been drawn ( fig. 2 ) .
The boiling points at atmospheric pressure are taken from the previous investigation , while the values for zero pressure are taken from the above-mentioned paper by Krafft VOL. lxxxiii.\#151 ; a. 2 M Mr. H. C. Greenwood .
The Influence of [ Feb. l Metal .
Pressure in mm. Boiling point .
Gras in sighting tube .
Bismuth 102 1200 Nitrogen 257 1310 Copper 100 1980 n 257 2180 Lead 105 1320 91 105 1310 Hydrogen 266 1420 Nitrogen 266 1400 Hydrogen Silver 103 1660 Nitrogen 103 1660 Hydrogen 263 1780 Nitrogen Tin 101 1970 262 2100 ii ( for the metals silver and copper , however , these latter points were not actually observed , but probable estimates were given ) .
From the general form of the curves obtained it is evident that the results 230O'C 2I00'C 1300 'C PRESSURE CMS .
OF MERCURY Fig. 2 .
1910 .
] Pressure on the Boiling Points of Metals .
487 previously deduced for atmospheric pressure would not be sensibly affected by any barometric fluctuations , since the slope of the curves is quite gentle at the point in question .
The boiling points of all the metals studied , when expressed on the absolute scale , conform fairly closely to Ramsay and Young 's law in being similarly affected by pressure .
Judging from this , it would seem legitimate to assume that the readily carburisable metals of which the normal boiling points have been previously found would show a closely similar dependency on the pressure .
Part II.\#151 ; Pressures above 760 mm. To study the effect of high positive pressures , a much more elaborate apparatus was necessary .
Use was made of the high-pressure electric furnace employed by Dr. Hutton and Prof. Petavel , and already described by them , * with some modification to meet the special requirements .
The furnace proper was essentially the same as that employed in the vacuum furnace , differing only in the use of large graphite blocks instead of water-cooled fittings as terminals for the current ( fig. 3 ) .
One graphite block D was soldered into a fitting screwed on to the water-cooled insulated electrode F , passing through the stuffing box at the bottom of the furnace , and the other was held by stout steel strips attached to the cast-iron protection liner , good electrical connection to the main forging being ensured by the use of brass wedges .
The current was led in at the main forging and out at the insulated electrode .
Electrical insulation and approximate gas-tightness of the side tube were secured by means of asbestos .
The pressure in the furnace was obtained with hydrogen prepared from zinc and sulphuric acidf and compressed into cylinders .
Pressure measurements were taken on Bourdon gauges which were subsequently checked against a standard gauge .
For viewing the surface of the metal a steel cover was fitted to the top of the furnace and was provided with a thick conical glass window A. A similar window B was employed for taking temperature readings , being fixed in a gun-metal fitting which screwed into the side of the pressure enclosure .
By means of a side opening C , connection could be made to a cylinder of compressed hydrogen , from which a slow current of gas was admitted down the window fitting and the side tube of the furnace in order to keep the sighting tube clear from fumes .
An idea of the velocity of the gas current in the side tube of the furnace was arrived at by the use of two valves , one on the supply cylinder and the * 'Phil .
Trans./ A , vol. 207 , p. 421 .
t Cf .
Hutton and Petavel , * Journ. Soc. Chem. Ind./ 1904 , vol. 23 , p. 87 .
488 Mi ' .
H. C. Greenwood .
Influence [ Feb. 1 , other near the window fitting .
By adjusting the latter so that there was a certain fairly rapid fall in the pressure on the capillary fittings with the former temporarily closed , and then reopening the cylinder valve , a fixed Fig. 3 .
flow of gas passed through the window fitting .
No difficulty was experienced in keeping the sighting tube free from fumes , except in experiments at 50 atmospheres , when a rapid current of gas was required .
The window was carefully cleaned before each experiment , although as a matter of fact 1910 .
] Pressure on the Boiling Points of Metals .
not the slightest deposit was formed .
Before performing an experiment the furnace was first freed from air by filling with hydrogen to 5 or 10 atmospheres and blowing this off .
More hydrogen was then admitted to about two-thirds of the pressure at which it was desired to operate .
On commencing the heating the expansion and the disengagement of occluded gas by the charcoal soon raised the pressure to the required value , and constancy was then maintained by allowing gas to slowly escape .
Considerable trouble was caused in the earlier experiments by a convection effect in the column of compressed gas above the upper furnace terminal , and through which the visual observations of the metal surface had to be taken .
The effect on the refractive index of the gas caused a pronounced wavering , which made it very difficult to decide when the surface of the metal began to be agitated .
No such phenomenon was observed at atmospheric pressure .
This disturbing factor was finally almost eliminated by fixing on to the upper furnace terminal a carbon tube E reaching almost to the top window .
Using this carbon " chimney , " the troublesome convection currents were almost entirely prevented , except at pressures above 50 atmospheres .
Temperature Measurements .
These were carried out as in the other experiments with the Wanner optical pyrometer , which in this case was sighted down the side tube of the furnace by means of a plane mirror inclined at 45 ' to the axes of the pyrometer and the sighting tube ( these being at right angles to one another ) .
The arrangement of the mirror and the pyrometer in exactly the same position for each experiment was ensured by the use of rigid tripods fitting in grooves .
To determine the correction for the loss on reflexion by the mirror , readings were taken on the mirror and also directly down the sighting tube , the furnace having been allowed to attain a steady temperature at atmospheric pressure .
This was ddne for several temperatures , and the difference was found to vary from 40 ' at 1100 ' to 115 ' at 2000 ' .
The absorption of the window was also determined and proved to be very small ( only 20 ' at 2000 ' C. ) .
Experimental Results .
In fixing the boiling points , the method of visual observation was used as in the case of atmospheric pressure .
The observations of the metal surface were , as was to be expected , rather less definite and clear than those obtained at lower pressures .
Sublimation below the boiling point seemed to be more pronounced , with the result that the surface of the metal was to some extent obscured by clouds Mr. H. C. Greenwood .
The Influence of [ Feb. 1 , of vapour .
However , it was fairly easy to decide on the point at which globules began to be thrown up from the surface , this phenomenon occurring just as at atmospheric pressure .
The magnitude of the effect of pressure proving to be rather large , the work has been necessarily confined to metals of relatively low boiling point .
For example , the boiling point of silver at 6 atmospheres was almost too high for measurement with the arrangements employed , being in the neighbourhood of 2450 ' .
With tin and copper , the temperatures of ebullition of which are already about 2300 ' at atmospheric pressure , it was obviously not feasible to attain the boiling point under a pressure of even a few atmospheres .
In the case of a metal like zinc , which at atmospheric pressure boils at 918 ' , the temperature-pressure curve could be followed much further\#151 ; up to 50 atmospheres\#151 ; above which pressure observations were rendered too difficult by reason of convection currents and increasingly dense clouds of vapour over the surface of the metal .
The character of the distillation of zinc , at any rate for the higher pressures , is rather different from that observed with the other metals , being , in fact , more of the nature of a very rapid sublimation than of actual ebullition .
The results obtained are embodied in the following table ( the boiling points being in most cases the mean values of several experiments ) and are represented graphically in fig. 4 .
Metal .
Pressure in atmospheres .
Boiling point .
Lead 1 1525 6*3 1870 11 *7 2100 Bismuth 1 1420 6*3 1740 11 *7 1950 16*5 2060 Zinc 6*3 1120 11 *7 1230 21 *5 1280 53 1510 By comparison with the table in Part I , it will be seen how marked is the influence of pressure : the boiling point of bismuth , for example , being altered 860 ' within the extreme limits of pressure used in the two series of experiments .
1910 .
] Pressure on the Boiling Points Metals .
2000* a .
1200 *C soo*c PRESSURE ATMOSPHERES Fra .
4 .
The cost of the special fittings and part of the running expenses were defrayed by funds provided by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
In conclusion , I wish to express my sincere thanks to Dr. Hutton and Prof. Petavel for allowing me to use the high-pressure furnace and for their valuable suggestions and kind interest in the experiments .

