146 A New Band Spectrum Associated * By W. E. Curtis , B.Sc. , A.R.C.S. , D.I.C. , Demonstrator of Astropliysics at the Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
( Communicated by A. Fowler , F.R.S. Received June 12 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) [ Plate 8 .
] Introductory .
In the course of Prof. Fowler 's recent observations of the principal series of hydrogen lines in the spectra of helium tubesf traces were frequently seen of a band spectrum the origin of which was unknown , and of which no previous record could be found.j The most prominent features visually were bands having their heads at about XX .
6400 , 5732 , 4649 , and 4626 .
The band at 5732 was degraded towards the violet end of the spectrum , the opposite being the case with the other three .
Although in the first instance the new bands were always comparatively feeble , they were such a frequent and persistent feature of the spectra of the various tubes that it was thought desirable to investigate their origin , and to determine their positions .
It was soon found possible , by choosing suitable conditions of pressure and discharge , to obtain the new spectrum quite brightly , when a number of other bands were observed , some visually and others by photography .
These bands were evidently associated with those first noticed .
Conditions of Observation .
The discharge tubes employed were mostly of the ordinary Pliicker form , and were sealed on to an apparatus consisting of a tube containing cleveite , potash and phosphorus pentoxide tubes , and a charcoal bulb .
After the whole apparatus had been exhausted by means of a Gaede pump the cleveite was heated , and the gases given off were passed over the potash and * Shortly after this paper was communicated to the Society a reprint of a paper describing the same spectrum was received from Dr. E. Goldstein .
It bears the title " Uber ein noch nicht beschriebenes , anscheinend dem Helium angehorendes Spektrum " ( 'Deut .
Phys. Ges .
, ' vol. 15 , p. 10 ) .
Dr. Goldstein 's results appear to have been obtained under conditions very similar to those described in the present paper , and the two accounts of the spectrum are in close agreement .
t A. Fowler , ' Monthly Notices R.A.S. , ' 1912 , vol. 73 , p. 62 .
J While the present investigation was in progress it was found that a band spectrum had been observed by W. Heuse in the positive column of the discharge in a helium tube of wide bore ( ' Deut .
Phys. Ges .
, ' 1900 , vol. 2 , p. 16 ) .
The spectrum was there attributed to helium , but no description or measurements were given , A New Band Spectrum Associated Helium .
147 phosphorus pentoxide into the vacuum tube .
The charcoal was then cooled with liquid air , and absorption allowed to proceed until no further changes were observed in the spectrum .
The discharge was kept running for some hours in order to clear off as much gas as possible from the electrodes .
It may be mentioned that as far as carbon impurities were concerned this treatment proved very effective .
Several tubes prepared in this way and then sealed off show no trace of carbon bands after a great deal of use .
Hydrogen , however , could not be eliminated in this way .
The new spectrum was not seen until the carbon ( Angstrom ) bands had practically disappeared , leaving the helium lines the predominant feature of the spectrum , with hydrogen present in small quantity , and frequently some mercury .
The pressure of the helium in the tube depended upon the amount of heating to which the cleveite had been subjected .
In most cases it was reheated several times , and absorption allowed to proceed to the limit in each case .
As a result of the examination of a number of sealed tubes containing various gases ( helium chiefly in nine cases ) it appears that the following are the principal facts bearing on the development of the new bands:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The only substances common to all the tubes from which the new spectrum was obtained were helium and hydrogen , the former being the chief constituent in every case .
( 2 ) A moderately high pressure is desirable ; the best results wrere obtained when the pressure was just too high to permit of the formation of the Crookes dark space round the cathode .
( 3 ) With an uncondensed discharge ( i.e. , with no capacity in the secondary circuit ) the new bands were faintly visible both in the capillary and the bulbs .
They could be obtained very much more brightly , however , on introducing a little capacity and a short spark-gap ( 1 or 2 mm. ) , but then appeared only in the bulbs .
On increasing the current through the tube beyond a certain limit , either by lengthening the spark-gap or by increasing the capacity , the new spectrum began to decrease in relative intensity .
( 4 ) The evident association of the new spectrum with that of helium suggested that it might possibly occur in celestial spectra showing the lines of the latter element .
An examination of a number of such spectra lias accordingly been made , but without result .
Description of the New Spectrum .
The wave-lengths given are only approximate , as the bands are in many cases of such a nature that the precise positions of the heads could only be determined after a complete analysis of the spectrum .
The bands are VOL. LXXXIX.\#151 ; A. N Mr. W. E. Curtis .
degraded towards the less refrangible side in every case save one , this exception being that marked / 3 , and having its head about 5732 .
Wave-lengtli ( I.A. ) .
Reference letter in Plate .
Remarks .
( " 6399 [ 6310 6250 to 5750 5732 J 5133 *7 t 5112 5056 *1 J 4648 *55 \4625 -63 4546 '4 4500 to 4400 4157 '8 4050 to 3900 3777 / 3677 L 3665 / 3356 -5 t 3348 -5 J 3206 13201 f 3123 1 3118 Very strong head .
Companion head ill-defined , but probably about here .
Many obvious band-lines in this region , but no easily recognisable heads .
Yery strong single head ; band degraded towards violet .
Although weak in photographs , these heads are fairly conspicuous visually .
Faint single head .
Yery strong heads ; bands well developed .
Strong single head .
Many strong lines , but no obvious heads .
Fairly strong single head .
Many strong lines ; positions of heads uncertain .
Fairly strong single head .
Strong double head .
Fairly strong double head .
Rather weak double head .
Yery weak double head ; too faint to show in reproduction .
Probable Origin of the Spectrum : In the present state of the experimental evidence it seems reasonable to attribute the new spectrum to helium , but further work will be necessary before the question of its origin can be regarded as definitely settled .
The matter is complicated by the presence of hydrogen in all the tubes examined ; if this could be completely removed , and the new spectrum were found to persist , there would be no reason to suppose that any substance other than helium is concerned in its production .
Up to the present , however , attempts to get rid of the hydrogen have not been successful , so that it is necessary to admit the possibility of hydrogen being connected with the origin of the bands .
It may be remarked here that the presence of hydrogen may easily be overlooked unless a careful examination is made .
For example , a tube may show no trace of the hydrogen lines either in capillary or bulb when the uncondensed discharge is employed , and show them fairly strongly in the bulbs , on introducing the condenser , yet still give no trace of them in A New Band Spectrum associated with Helium A New Band Spectrum Associated with Helium .
149 the capillary .
An incidental illustration of such a case will be found in Plate 8 , I. # I am greatly indebted to Prof. Fowler for the constant interest he has taken in this work .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
I ( a ) .
New spectrum , showing also the helium and hydrogen lines .
( b ) .
Helium comparison , obtained from capillary of same tube with uncondensed discharge .
Note complete absence of hydrogen lines in this case .
II ( a ) and III ( a ) .
Portions of new spectrum ( with lines of helium and hydrogen ) taken on a Littrow prismatic spectrograph .
II ( b ) and III ( b ) .
Iron arc comparisons .
IV .
Portion of new spectrum taken in first order of 10-foot Rowland ooncave grating , showing structure of bands 8 and e. Studies on the Processes Operative Solutions ( XXX ) and on Enzyme Action ( XX).\#151 ; The Nature of Enzymes and of their Action as Hydrolytic Agents .
By E. Frankland Armstrong and H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. ( Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) [ This paper is printed in Series B , vol. 86 , No. 591 .
] yol .
lxxxix.\#151 ; A. o

