1886 , ] On the Median Eye 559 variety of graphite is characterised by giving a very large yield of marsh-gas .
co3 45-42 CO 39-88 OIL 4-43 H 8-31 N 2-00 Occluded gases in volumes of the graphite=53'13 .
XIV .
" Preliminary Communication on the Structure and Presence in Sphenodon and other Lizards of the Median Eye , described by von Graaf in Anguis fragilis .
" By W. Baldwin Spencer , B.A. , Demonstrator of Comparative Anatomy in University of Oxford , Fellow of Lincoln College .
Communicated by Prof. H. N. Moseley , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1886 .
In 1872 Leydig* described a structure in Lacerta agilis , L. muralis , L. vivipara , and Anguis fragilis , to which he gave the name of " frontal organ .
" In the embryo , owing to its being deeply pigmented , it forms a prominent feature on the roof of the original forebrain in connexion with the pineal gland ; in the adult it lies immediately beneath the skin , and , according to him and subsequent observers , completely separated from the brain .
In Anguis fragilis the organ is seen microscopically to consist of long cells like those of a cylindrical epithelium , which are so arranged that together they form a shallow pit with a circular outline .
The edge of the pit is directed downwards , and has a thick black girdle of pigment .
It corresponds in position to that occupied by the parietal foramen in the adult .
Leydig regarded our knowledge of the organ as insufficient to allow of any statement being made with regard to its function .
Rabl-Riickhard , t in 1882 , describing the development of the pineal gland in the trout , pointed out the resemblance between its development as a hollow outgrowth of the brain and that of the optic vesicles .
Granted such secondary developments from the epiblast and meso-blast as combine to produce the eye , and which are absent in the case of the pineal gland , though the distal extremity of the latter lies in a * " Die in Deutschland lebenden Arten der Saurier , " p. 72 , taf .
12 .
t " Sir Deutung und Entwickelung des G-ehirns der Knochenfisclie .
" Arch , fur Anat , u. Phys. , Jahrg .
1882 , p. 111 .
Mr. W. B. Spencer .
[ June 10 , favourable position immediately beneath the epiblast , and , he states , there is no difficulty in the way of the idea that an unpaired sense organ similar to the eye would be developed out of the pineal gland .
Ahlborn* also , in 1882 , independently arrived at the conclusion that the epiphysis is to be regarded as the remains of an unpaired median eye , founding this conclusion upon general considerations , such as the agreement in origin of the eye vesicles and the epiphysis as hollow outgrowths of the brain , the connexion of the epiphysis with the eye region of the brain ( especially the optic thalami ) , and the peripherally directed position of the structure in Selachian Ganoids and Petromyzon , and the completely peripheral position in Amphibia on the outside of the skull .
He even goes so far as to suggest a comparison of this structure with the unpaired eye of Amphioxus and Tunicates .
More lately Henri de Graaff has published an outline of his results in studying the development of the epiphysis in Amphibia , and its structure in the adult Lacerta agilis and He agrees with Strahl and Hoffmann in stating that the " frontal organ " of Leydig is the distal part of the epiphysis completely separated off from the proximal .
He describes in detail the structure of the organ in Anguis , where it develops , he says , into a structure very similar to a highly organised invertebrate eye , as that of Cephalopods , Pteropods , and Heteropods .
The following is a preliminary notice of results obtained recently by studying the structure of the organ in various forms of lizards , at the suggestion of Prof. Moseley , and by means of materials procured for the purpose with great kindness by him from various sources .
] ; The forms investigated at present are the following , though only the more important results obtained from a few are given in this abstract:\#151 ; Hatteria punctata .
Lacerta ocellata .
Lacerta viv Iguana ( 2 sp. ) .
Galotes ophiomaca .
Galotes verse Leiodera nitida .
Plica umbra .
Anolius ( sp ?
) .
Grammatopleora barbata .
Chameleo vulgaris .
Stellio cordylina .
Varanus bengale Par anus giganteus .
Gyclodus gigas ( ?
) .
Seps chalcidica .
* " Ueber die Bedeutung der Zirbeldriise .
" " Zeit .
fiir Wiss .
Zool. , " vol. 40 ( 1884 ) , p. 336 .
t " Sir Anat .
u. Entwick .
der Epiphyse bei Amphibien u. Beplilien .
" Zool. Anzeig .
, Jahrg .
9 ( 1886 ) , p. 191 .
X I am especially indebted to Professor Gunter , through whose kindness I have 1886 .
] On the Median Eye in Lizards .
( 1 .
) External Appearance .
The organ is situated npon the dorsal surface in the median line , and at varying distances posterior to the level of the paired eyes ; the presence or absence of an external indication of the organ can be by no means relied npon as indicating the existence or non-existence of the structure in a highly developed state .
In many cases , as Varanus -galensis , the various species of Calotes and Lacerta , the organ is marked externally by the presence of a specially modified scale , usually considerably larger than the surrounding ones , and with a circular patch of pigment behind the whole resembling a cornea .
Being transparent , and forming the anterior boundary of a capsule containing the organ , the appearance of a dark pupil surrounded by a light circle is produced .
On the other hand , as in Plica umbra or Cyclodus ( sp. ) , a more or less highly specialised scale may be present , but the organ beneath be not highly developed ; or again , as in Hatteria , there may be no special scale , but only a general transparency in the median line , immediately above the organ , which may nevertheless be in a highly , developed state .
( 2 .
) Position of the Organ .
The organ may lie at different levels imbedded more or less deeply-in connective tissue beneath the skin , or even within the skull cavity , but is always placed external to the dura matter .
It always has a definite relationship to the parietal foramen usually lying within this .
In Calotes it is placed immediately beneath the specially modified scale ; in most forms , such as Varanus , Seps , Anolius , Leiodera , \amp ; c. , it lies within the foramen , and separated by specially modified connective tissue from the skin .
In Hatteria it lies on the inner side of the foramen , which is filled up by a plug of connective tissue , and in Lacerta ocellata the bone around the foramen is modelled to fit closely to the outline of the organ and the connective tissue surrounding this .
( 3 .
) Structure of the Organ .
It may be said at once that Leydig 's " frontal organ " resembles in essential structure an invertebrate eye .
This resemblance has lately been clearly pointed out by Graaf , in the case of Anguis fragilis , and is found to hold good for many others .
' He in eommon with all previous observers regards the organ as the been allowed to examine duplicate specimens of ten species from the British Museum ; they are not all described in this communication , but will be dealt with more fully subsequently .
By Professor C. Stewart 's kindness also I have been able to examine duplicate specimens of Iguana and Varanus from the museum of the Itoyal College of Surgeons .
VOL. XL .
2 P Mr. W. B. Spencer .
[ June 10 , distal portion of the epiphysis , which becomes completely separated off from the proximal portion of the same , and lies completely surrounded by connective tissue in the parietal foramen .
If in contact with a nerve , as frequently happens according to Graaf in Amphibia , then the nerve in question is a subcutaneous branch of the ramus supramaxillaris of the trigeminal .
It is difficult to imagine why a single medianly placed organ should be supplied in any way by a branch from one only of two paired lateral nerves .
The two most important facts established by the present series of observations are\#151 ; \#166 ; ( 1 .
) That Leydig 's " frontal organ " exists as a structure comparable to an invertebrate eye , widely distributed amongst Lacertilians .
It may , in reference to its position and structure , be perhaps best called the pineal eye .
( 2 .
) That the eye is connected by a medianly placed nerve with the proximal portion of the epiphysis , and thus with the dorsal surface of the brain in the median line .
There can be further little doubt that this nerve is the remains of the part connecting the distal with the proximal part of the epiphysis , that it is in other wbrds formed as the optic nerve from a hollow outgrowth of the brain , which subsequently becomes solid .
The structure of the eye in two or three typical cases is as follows:\#151 ; ( a. ) HatteHa.\#151 ; In this form the organ is well developed , and being through Prof. Moseley 's kindness enabled to procure a fresh specimen , it has been possible to determine the elements comprising the optic vesicle .
In all the eyes yet examined a lens is present .
Von Graaf figures it in Anguis as separated from the hinder part of the vesicle , but this does not hold good for any of those examined during the course of this work .
The lens , on the contrary , appears to be only the modified anterior portion of the optic vesicle with the hinder walls of which it is directly continuous .
In Hatteria it is somewhat cone-shaped , with a broad base corresponding to the anterior surface of the vesicle ; it is distinctly cellular , the nuclei being well marked , and the cells having a definite arrangement .
The walls of the vesicle posterior to the lens consist of the following elements :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) A layer of rods bordering the vesicle internally , deeply imbedded in dark pigment , arranged as seen when the rods are separated so as to give the latter a clearly marked striated appearance .
( 2 .
) External to these is a layer composed of rounded nucleated elements , two , and in fact possibly three , rows deep .
( 3 .
) External to this what may be called a molecular layer , consisting of finely punctated material , through which seems to run a supporting structure ; 1886 .
] On the Median Eye in Lizards .
563 processes from the structures on both sides of the layer seem to run into its substance .
( 4 .
) External to the molecular layer an outer part , in which three kinds of elements may be distinguished : ( ) round nucleated cells , somewhat larger than those of the inner layer ; ( 6 ) rod-like structures , somewhat conically shaped , with their broad ends external ; ( c ) small nucleated spindle-shaped elements , placed between the latter at their bases .
( 5 .
) Though difficult to trace , a fine layer of nerve fibres appear to spread round the vesicle from the nerve which enters it at the surface nearest the epiphysis .
The elements are connected serially , though processes from the rods may be seen passing at times directly into the molecular layer , or the rod elements externally , or even right through to the external surface .
Such processes are accompanied by pigment , and may in some cases merely indicate supporting structures .
In Hatteria , as in other forms , a special bundle of rods lying in the optic axis is highly developed , being much lengthened out and running down into the nerve , their outer extremities being in connexion with a particular group of nucleated cells .
Yon Graaf describes in Anguis a layer of small rod-like structures , similar apparently to those found in many invertebrate eyes , though he is not certain as to their nature .
In Hatteria and other forms examined , the vesicle appears to have been filled during life by a fluid material , and this in coagulating adheres to the wall .
The coagulation often apparently sets in from definite points , and these being the ends of rods , gives the appearance , under certain conditions of light , of refracted processes attached to these structures .
The nerve enters the vesicle posteriorly , certain fibres appear to enter into connexion with the cells connected with the specialised rods , the remainder spread out around the external surface of the vesicle , and here enter into connexion with the elements , that is , the rods bound the internal surface of the vesicle , and the nerve-fibres the external .
The nerve , whilst differing in appearance from an ordinary one , ; yet resembles more closely than anything else the developing optic nerve , being formed of long spindle-shaped elements , which recall the stage passed through when the at first round cellular elements of the optic stalk are gradually lengthening out .
The nerve in both cases developes in a similar manner .
The whole eye lies in a special capsule of connective tissue into which enters and breaks up a blood-vessel , this vessel being present in connexion with the eye in all Lacertilia examined , even in those in which a nerve could not be distinctly traced .
( 6 .
) Lacerta ocellata.\#151 ; In this form the organ lies considerably below the surface , and so shut in by bone that it may be said to lie within the skull .
The dura matter which surrounds it is deeply pigmented , 2 r 2 5t\gt ; 4 Mr , W. B. Spencer .
[ June 10 , and the presence of the branched pigment cells renders the examination of its structure very difficult .
A well developed cellular lens is present , formed from the anterior part of the vesicle apparently .
The retinal elements are imbedded in pigment , and , save the rods , are difficult to detect , though by careful examination two rows of round nucleated cells may be detected .
The pigment obscures the nerve , which is nothing like so clearly marked as in Hatteria , due largely to the dura mater encasing the eye so closely that no capsule is formed .
The nerve enters posteriorly , and a slight differentiation of the rods at two points may be noticed , the nerve appearing to divide into two just before entering the eye ; it passes down , lying in the dura mater to join the proximal part of the epiphysis , which is itself deeply pigmented .
The blood-vessel accompanying the nerve is well developed .
( c , ) Iguana , \#151 ; The structure agrees in the main with that of Hatteria , though , owing to the eye being not so well preserved as in the latter , the elements cannot be so clearly differentiated .
The lens is cellular , and somewhat similarly shaped to that of Hatteria ; the rods are as usual deeply pigmented , and external to them may be detected ( 1 ) a row of round nucleated cells ; ( 2 ) a well-marked molecular layer , in which the nucleated cells are often embedded ; and ( 3 ) an outermost layer of cone-shaped bodies , similar to those of Hatteria .
The rods in the optic axis are again lengthened out and prominent , running down into the nerve .
The eye lies in a capsule of connective tissue within the foramen , and into the same space passes also a hollow process from the epiphysis , into which the nerve enters .
In another Iguana examined the process appears not to be hollow , and the eye , instead of lying in a capsule , is closely invested by connective tissue .
In both cases the vesicle is filled with a coagulation , indicating the presence of a fluid material in life , ( d. ) Anolius ( sp. ?
).\#151 ; The eye lies close beneath the skin , and almost entirely fills up the parietal foramen , the remainder being occupied by vacuolated tissue , in which large nucleated cells are present at intervals , together with branching pigment cells .
The eye is elongated in the direction of the optic axis , and provided with a nerve running back through the vacuolate tissue and entering the proximal part of the epiphysis .
Pigment is largely developed , ensheathing all the elements of the retina ; the rods may be traced into rounded elements ; these again externally into cone-shaped elements .
Tne rods in the optic axis are again modified and prominent , and their ends facing into the vesicle appear striated .
1886 .
] On the Median Eye in Lizards .
565 The lens is cellular , and has a slight development of pigment in some of its cells in the optic axis .
Special connective tissue fibres pass , as in some other forms , from the capsule to the edge of the lens .
( e. ) Leiodera nitida.\#151 ; This may be taken as the type of several forms , such as Galotes ophiomaca and versicola and Seps , in which the eye is lengthened out in a direction at right angles to the optic axis .
The lens is distinctly cellular , and continuous with the hinder walls of the vesicle .
The retinal elements consist of ( 1 ) rods ; ( 2 ) a layer of round nucleated cells ; ( 3 ) a well marked clear space , corresponding in position to the molecular layer ; and ( 4 ) an external layer of cone-shaped elements .
In these forms a nerve cannot be detected with certainty , though very possibly with freshly killed specimens its presence might be demonstrated .
In Leiodera the scale above the eye is beautifully modified , and a transparent dome-shaped cornea developed , sections showing that the pigment is absent from the scale in this region , though very abundantly developed elsewhere .
( f. ) Varanus Bengalensis and giganteus.\#151 ; The eye in these forms will be dealt with fully on a subsequent occasion ; at present one point only will be mentioned .
In two specimens examined ( perhaps of different species of Varanus ) the connexion with the proximal part of the epiphysis was of an importantly different nature ; in one it was in the form of a hollow process , in the other of a solid , much as in Hatteria .
There can be no doubt that the connecting parts in the two instances are equivalent to each other .
( g. ) Cyclodus gigas ( ?
).\#151 ; This may be taken as the type of those forms , in which no structure comparable to an eye is at present found .
The distal extremity of the epiphysis is swollen out , the cells of its walls , which are thrown into folds , become shaped like those of cylindrical epithelium , and amongst them pigment is deposited , but no true retina is formed , or any structure comparable to a lens .
The distal swollen part of the epiphysis is enveloped in pigment in the dura matter , some distance in front of the proximal part , with which it is connected by a hollow process .
The whole structure lies on the inner side of the cranium , closely fitted to the bone , as in Lacerta , ocellata .
The scale on the surface of the head is imperfectly modified to form a cornea , and has the appearance of degenerating .
* Titles of Papers deferred .
[ Jhne 10 , XV .
" Star Photography ; the Effects of Long and Short Exposures on Star Magnitudes .
" By ISAAC Roberts , F.R.A.S. Communicated by the Rev. S. J. Perry , F.R.S. Received May 21 , 1886 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XVI .
" An Instrument for the speedy Volumetric Determination of Carbonic Acid .
" By W. Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 9 , 1886 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XVII .
( t On the Practical Measurements of Temperature ; Experiments made at the Cavendish Laboratory , Cambridge .
" By H. L. Callendar , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Physics at the Cavendish Laboratory .
Received June 9 , 1886 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XVIII .
" The Determination of Organic Matter in Air .
" By Professor T. Carnelley and WlLLlAM Mackie .
Communicated by Sir H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1886 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XIX .
" The Carbonic Acid , Organic Matter , and Microorganisms in Air , more especially of Dwellings and Schools .
" By Professor T. Carnelley , J. S. Haldane , and Dr. A. M. Anderson .
Communicated by Sir H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. Received June 10 , 1886 .
[ Publication deferred .
] XX .
" Preliminary Report on the Pathology of Cholera Asiatica ( as observed in Spain , 1885 ) .
" By C. S. Roy , F.R.S. , J. Graham Brown , M.D. , \amp ; c. , and C. S. Sherrington , M.B. Received June 10 , 1886 .
[ Publication deferred.3 The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 18th .

