]\gt ; 1893 .
] On the Ftow Electric the in each case .
Litbium chloride no continuous specu um .
The of Metals.\mdash ; One of the most interesting facts ascertained by this investigation is the volatility of all the metals examined , except platinum , and particularly the ] .dinary volatility of anese , and , to some extent , of the infusible metal iridium .
Metal believed to be pure iridium is seen to have diminished after the flame has played upon it for about two honrs .
III .
" " On the in Electlic Circuits of lIeasurable InductCapacity ; and on the Dissipation of Encrgy in such Circmts.\ldquo ; By ALFBED .
PORTER , B.Sc. , Demonstratol of sics i University College , London .
nunicated by Professor G. CAREY JiLR , F.li .
S. Received , 1893 .
The ement o the apparatus in the experiments described was as follows:\mdash ; is a coil of self-inductance and of resistance ( ohms ) .
is condenser of city S , and in the same auch with it is an inductionless resistance , , the value of which cau be vnried .
is a battery which ] , the cuits shown are complete , duces a current through , and rges the condenser .
A and are the two contact pieces of a pelldulum ruptor .
The two circuits can be broken at these places by the pendulum : the time intel.val between the two ruptures being by the distance between the contact pieces .
One centimetre distance apart corresponds to thousandths of a second , and , as this distauce can be read easily ( by a verniel attached ) to a tenth of a millimetre , it is possible to measure vals of 5 hundred-thousandths of a second .
The method of the experiments is as follo :\mdash ; Mr. A. W. Porter .
On the Flow in Electric [ June 1 , A and are closed ; a steady current , , flows in consequence through , and the condenser is charged to a difference of potential .
The pendulum breaks contact first at B. This prevents further flow in the battery bran c. the coil current is diverted the condenser branch , and flows there until its energy is wholly dissipated or until its flow is intercepted by the rupture at A. The charge retained by the condenser is then measured by discharging it .
a nval galvanometer ( not indicated on the diagram ) which has been calibrated for ] istic use .
This series of operations is successively repeated many values of the time interval .
It is thus possible to determine the charge of the condenser at { llly moment after the rupture of the battery branch .
Some of the results obtained are shown in fig. 1 and fig. 2 .
The ordinates represent the charges in arbitrary units ; the abscissae give the time in thousandths of second .
data , for the are as follows:\mdash ; .
Fig. 1 . . . . . . . . . . . .
, Curve A represents a ] ' ; Curve represents the critical discharge that just to ever charge the condenser negatively ; Curve represents the critical that just fails to be oscillatory ; And the culwe in fig. 2 represents a typical To from these cves be , we must solve equation is the dissipation constant , and is at instant .
The constants of ration must be determined to suit the conditions ; The solution has of two ) accordin Circuits of In the former case it becomes fin.ally where and \mdash ; the second case let the solution is , where ) .
and the curve case in on the assunlption that is cqual to the wire resistance in the circuit ( ohnls ) , the dotted curve in the same rrnre is obtained .
The time periods of the two agree very well ; but a marked difference is seen in the rate of shrinkage of the ordinates .
The explanation that offered itself is that the wire circuit is not the only seat of dissipation of energy , but that dissipation also -es in the dielectric of the condenser .
In accordance with this , it ; possible to reproduce the experimental curve by increasing the of / to ohms .
Points on the curve so determined are shown as solid dots in the .
The reement of the time periods is also improved by this increase in , as can bc seen from the table :\mdash ; Calculated front Cnlculated fionl Time period in seconds . . . .
) The experiment has also been repeated with soft iron rods the coil .
These are rather longer than the coils , and .
diameters No. I . . . . . . . . . .
cm .
No. II . . . . . . . . . .
No. III . . . . . . . . . .
other data were the same as for fig. 2 .
The curves obtained are shown in fig. 3 , and are numbered I , II , to the rod employed .
Their chief characteristics arc .\mdash ; .
A change in time period as the discharge pl.ogrcsses . .
Rapid decrement .
' : of That this latter is only very partially due to eddy currents the iron was shown by repeating the experiment with a brass rod of 2 cm .
diameter inserted in the coil .
The curve obtained is only htly ( though distinctly ) different from bhat obtained any cors .
Experiments have also been begun on the decay of current in circuits containing iron and of ] capacity .
The coil possessthe inductance forms one arm of a tstone 'idge .
) experiments were commenced as far back as June , ; the experiments described above were commc1lced in January , 1891 .
series were suspended for wallt of a sufficiently precise Tbis has since been obtained , and satisfactory work thus been made .
The investigation is only in an early ; but the fact that at least one other observer* is already working in the same field induces me to present this note in order to sho the independence of our work .
* P. Jnnet .
See ' ) Rcndus , ' vol. no , ;

