1881 .
] On a New Mineral found m the Island of Cyprus .
119 ( 6 ) The posterior part of the oviduct is not formed until the ovarian sac has become developed , and had not been developed in the oldest larva ( 11 centiras .
) the authors have succeeded in obtainin g. The Alimentary Canal and its Appendages .
In this section the authors give a detailed account of the topographical anatomy of the alimentary tract in the adult .
They have detected a small pancreas close to the bile-duct , and call special attention to a ventral mesentery passing from the posterior straight section of the intestine to the ventral wall of the body .
In the embryological part of the section a detailed account is given of the development ( 1 ) of the pancreas , which is described as arising us a dorsal diverticulum of the duodenum on a level with the opening of the bile-duct ; ( 2 ) of the yolk sac and vitelline duct ; ( 3 ) of the spiral valve , which first appears as a hollow fold in the wall of the intestine , taking a slightly spiral course , and eventually becoming converted into a simple spiral ridge .
The so-called hyoid gill , which the authors expected to find well developed in the larva , is shown not to be found even in the oldest larva the head of which was examined ( 26 millims. ) The last section of the paper is devoted to the consideration of the systematic position of Lepidosteus .
The Teleostean affinities of Lepidosteus are brought into prominence , but it is shown that Lepidosteus is nevertheless a true Ganoid .
The arguments used in this portion of the paper do not admit of being summarised .
IY .
" On a New Mineral found in the Island of Cyprus .
" By PAULUS F. REINSCH ( Erlangen ) .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received November 3 , 1881 .
In the western part of the Island of Cyprus I detected , during my journey in June this year , a peculiar mineral , very remarkable not only from its chemical composition but also from the large percentage of extremely well-preserved siliceous shells of microscopic Radiolaria .
The locality in this not much known part of Cyprus , * is situated between the village Chynussa and the mountains running in a north* In the fine map of Kiepert ( Berlin , '1878 ) this part of the island , in which the locality lies , is marked as " wooded hill country , unexplored .
" In all the reports of travellers through Cyprus before and after the British occupation I find no notice of this tract , which must have attracted the attention of passing travellers .
VOL. XXXIII .
K 120 On a New Mineral found in the Island of Cyprus .
[ Dec. 8 , western direction , 38 miles KW .
W. in .
a straight line from the city I of Limassol , 4 miles from the nearest point of the shores of Chrysohu Bay .
The mineral is fonnd there in enormous quantities , it covers the sides of the top of a hill about 150 meters over the lowest part of the valley beneath .
One side of the hill is covered with the pure mineral , partly in a crumbled state , partly as solid rock .
On some places are found compact prominent rocks of the pure mineral from 1 to 2 meters height .
The locality is destitute of any vegetation .
The mineral is soft and chalk-like ; in a compact state it has a yellowish colour , in a powdered state an intense sulphur-like colour .
The principal part of the mineral is composed of pure basic sulphate of oxide of iron , making 73 per cent. The striking yellow coloration of the slope attracted my attention , and I thought at first sight that I had before me a large " layer of a pure sort of common yellow ochre .
In ravines intersecting the slope and running down to the valley , especially on the lower parts , I observed the slopes covered all over with whitish and yellowish crusts of salt from 1 to 2 inches thick .
These crusts sometimes cover the soil in the ground of the valley and excavations in the slope with whitish efflorescences , 30 to 50 meters below the yellow deposit .
The substance must be partly soluble , it has a peculiar taste , giving the taste of sulphate of protoxide .
On all those spots which are covered with the crusts of this salt there grows no vegetation of herbs , only shrubs cover the soil .
During the dry season , lasting in this part of the island from June to August , the amount of salt , crystallizing and developed from the surface of the slopes , must constantly be increasing .
The upper parts of the soil more and more drying up are filled up in the dry season with the efflorescence of salt , which is previously in a dissolved state below the surface of the soil .
This efflorescent salt in the lowrer parts of the ravines proves to be derived .
from the higher parts of the yellow deposit itself .
Through the influence of the rain water in the wet season ( October to December ) quantities of the mineral being dissolved and carried down , quantities of the solution are sucked in from the soil ; later in the dry season the salt makes efflorescences on the surface if the soil is drying up .
The process of efflorescence of salt in the dry season and carrying away in the wet season is repeated from year to year .
The salt seems to me to be a neutral combination , and is in small amount soluble in water .
The mineral contains T7 per cent , hygroscopic water , and in the substance soluble in hydrochloric acid a very small amount of sulphate of alumina .
The hardness is nearly 2 , equal gypsum , specific gravity 17 .
Heated to redness the mineral* turns from yellow to dark-brown * I assign to this mineral the name of the island , and to the many names of 1881 .
] On certain points in the Anatomy of Chiton .
and at last to red-brown , the colour of oxide ; it loses in average 8 to 9 per cent , sulphuric acid with combined water .
When dissolved in boiling hydrochloric acid a snow-white residuum is obtained , which , nnder the microscope , proves to be composed of extremely well-preserved shells of microscopic Radiolaria , belonging to different genera .
The size of those mostly regular globular bodies ranges between 0-045 millim. and 0-1135 millim. The quantity of this residuum amounts in a mean of three trials to 25 per cent. The quantity of soluble substance is therefore 73 per cent. , if we take away 2 per cent , hygroscopic water .
This soluble substance is pure sulphate of oxide of iron with a very small amount of sulphate of alumina .
The quantity of the sulphuric acid in the mineral was directly determined by precipitation of the hydrochloric solution of the mineral with chloride of barium .
2,000 mgrms .
of the mineral gave 1,250 mgrms .
sulphate of baryta , corresponding to 431 mgrms .
sulphuric acid .
The amount of this acid in the mineral is therefore 215 per cent. The quantity of the oxide with a small amount of alumina is 51 o pei cent. , corresponding to 36 per cent , metallic iron .
No traces of copper or any other metal have been found in the mineral ; a trace of arsenic , however , is observed , as is shown by means of the copper-arsenic test , by boiling the hydrochloric solution with a clean copper slip , which becomes coated with a thin deposit of metallic arsenic .
Cyprusit is composed as follows:\#151 ; Oxide of iron , with a very small amount of alumina 51 " 5 Sulphuric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 21*5 Insoluble siliceous substance ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 Hygroscopic water ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2 100-0 .
Y. " On certain points in the Anatomy of Chiton .
' By Adam Sedgwick , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by F. Maitland Balfodr , F.R.S. Received November 5 , 1881 .
An account of the structure of the kidney of Chiton has long been a want in morphology .
Middendorff , * in 1848 , described a branched gland lying ventrally on each side of the body cavity which he identified as kidney ; but he records no observation on the structure of the objects belonging to natural history derived from Cyprus I add a new one ; the mineral would bear the name " Cyprusit .
" # " Memoires de l'Acad .
de St. Petersbourg , " 6th ser. , vol. vi .
K 2

