76 Mr. F. C. Penrose .
On Orientation of Greek same as that described by Mott as a distinct part of the anterolateral tract of Gowers , and is certainly no artifact , as has been suggested by Patrick .
" On the Orientation of Greek Temples and the Dates of their Foundation derived from Astronomical Considerations , being a Supplement to a Paper published in the ' Transactions of the Royal Society , ' in 1893 .
" By F. C. PENROSE , F.R.S. Received February 24 , \#151 ; Read March 'll , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) The paper first states briefly the link which connects this branch of archaeology with astronomy , namely thus :\#151 ; The great temple functions were celebrated at early dawn , the principal annual function being on the day when the sun , rising above the visible horizon , shone along the axis of the temple , through the eastern door , upon the Statue of the Deity in the sanctuary , the axis of the temple having been so directed at its foundation\#151 ; an institution which seems to have originated in Egypt , but which was , from the earliest times , adopted in Greece .
But as some time was required by the priests for preparation for the ceremony , in the absence of clocks , the rising or setting of an heliacal star would have to be observed from the sanctuary to give warning of the sun 's approach ; and it would be the case , roughly , that when such star could be just seen either at its appearing in the east , or just before its disappearance in the west , it would give about an hour 's time for preparation .
The data for the calculation are : the latitude , the amplitude given by the direction of the temple 's axis and the altitude of the visible horizon .
From these the son 's right ascension and declination are deduced , then the place of a star having been found suitable for acting as a warning star\#151 ; which could not have been always possible without original contrivance\#151 ; the precessional movement of such star will then give the period which has elapsed since it was in accurate heliacal correspondence with the sun .
In the paper are recorded some observations of the heliacal visibility of stars chiefly before sunrise , and the different angles of solar depression which seem to me to be required for stars of different magnitudes , and particularly as to the visibility of the Pleiades in twilight .
Then the elements of orientation of a number of temples are given , viz. , four from Athens , which were not included in the former series , a new determination of the ancient Heraeum near Argos , the former having been taken before the site was completely cleared ; of the temple of Apollo at Delphi , of which the site is very Temples and the Dates of their Foundation .
peculiar ; but the temple is shown to have apparently followed the general rule , and that when rebuilt about three hundred years after the first foundation , the orientation was corrected so as to follow the precessional movement of the star .
In the examples of Greek remains in Calabria , of which six examples are given , are two cases of orientation to the winter solstice , and an instance is afterwards given from Pompeii ( originally a Greek city ) of orientation to the summer solstice\#151 ; of these extremes I have found no examples in Greece itself .
One of the examples of the winter solstice , from the ancient city of the Locri , is remarkable as being taken from foundations lying underneath those of a later temple with very different orientation and a different heliacal star .
The winter solstice temples were warned by the setting , and the summer solstice temple by the rising , of the same star , ft Geminorum .
The dates of the earliest of the Italian temples follow , at an interval of nearly nine hundred years , that of the foundation of the earliest of those in Greece .
The temples in Sicily are rather later still , which would be the natural development , and are also in remarkable accordance with what is known by historical tradition of the Greek civilization of the island .
From Thucydides B. VI are derived the dates at which Hellenic colonies founded , or occupied , the following cities:\#151 ; Syracuse ... ... ... ... . .
b.c. 734 Selinus ... ... ... ... .
\lt ; 529 Agrigen turn ... . .
582 And it may be inferred from the same authority that the foundation of Segeste preceded the above given dates .
The orientation dates which I have derived for temples in these cities are\#151 ; Segeste ( .815 Syracuse \lt ; 695 1450 r870 Splinns 1.550 There are also at Selinus four other temples , of which I only obtained approximate orientations , sufficient , however , to show me that their dates would not be anterior to the seventh century b.c. r b.c. 820 470 \lt ; .
450 430 1 400 Agrigentnm 78 Phenomena , SfC .
, of Heat-contraction of Skeletal Muscle .
It is known from Diodorus that the great temple-building period at Agrigentnm commenced after 480 B.C. , and further , the temple the fourth on the list was incomplete as respects its roof in 406 , and was never finished afterwards .
It was a huge temple , and the orientation date for the foundation has great architectural probability .
After a shock to its prosperity in 406 , the city partially recovered , and six years afterwards may have been able to found the small temple with which I have closed the above list .
Also the orientation date of the temple at Paestum coincides exactly with a passage in Herodotus in which , although he does not mention the temple , he speaks of the celebrity of a Posidonian architect .
A Study of the Phenomena and Causation of Heat-contraction of Skeletal Muscle .
" By T. G. Brodie , M.D. , and S. W. F. Richardson , M.B. , B.S. Communicated by W. D. Halliburton , F.R.S. Received March 2 , \#151 ; Read March 11 , 1897 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory of St. Thomas ' Hospital .
) ( Abstract .
) In carrying out some experiments to determine the changes in length of a muscle when subjected to varying loads and temperatures , we have paid particular attention to those changes produced from the onset of heat-contraction up to a higher temperature .
We have , for the particular study of these changes , always employed a sar-torius preparation of a frog immersed in diluted defibrinated blood , which was gradually heated in a water bath .
The changes in length were recorded photographically .
The necessary tension was applied by means of a very weak spiral spring .
If the load be low\#151 ; we have usually employed one belowr 1 gram\#151 ; the record shows four separate contractions .
These are :\#151 ; ( 1 ) A contraction commencing at about 82 ' C. , and ceasing at about 40 ' C. ( 2 ) A second commencing at about 46 ' C. , and ceasing soon after 50 ' C. ( 3 ) A third commencing at about 56 ' C. , and ceasing soon after 60 ' C. ( 4 ) A fourth commencing at about 63 ' C. , and extending up to 75 ' C. If we contrast the temperatures of these contractions with those given as the points of coagulation of the pi'oteids of frog 's muscle plasma by v. Fxirth , we find that the first three agree in all points

