VIII .
" On the Ureas of the D)iamines .
" By J. Ethylene-urea combines with dichloride of platinum and trichloride of gold .
The platinum-compound is obtained in short prisms of orange-red colour , containing C4 HNo 4 0 , H C1 , Pt C12 .
The gold-salt crystallizes in golden-yellow scales of the composition H10 N4 , ,1 C1 , Au C13 .
The analysis of these compounds fixes the molecular value of the new urea .
It deserves to be noticed , that this body , although derived from four molecules of ammonia , exhibits nevertheless in its combining power the character of but one molecule of ammonia ; it is a monacid tetramine .
Diethylated Etthylene-ureas .
When cyanate of silver is treated with dibromide of ethylenediethyl-diammonium , a reaction perfectly analogous to that observed between cyanate of silver and dichloride of ethylene-diammonium is accomplished .
The solution , when separated from the bromide of silver and evaporated , solidifies on cooling to a crystalline mass .
The new substance may be easily purified by dissolving it in absolute alcohol , from which it is deposited in the form of colourless needles , exceedingly soluble both in water and alcohol .
The diethylated urea contains 1c n~8 N4 20 = ( c H1 ) 2 H14 This urea fuses at 124 ?
, decomposing , however , partially at this temperature .
It forms a platinum-salt , Cs 118 N4 02 , 11 1 , Pt C12 , and a gold-salt of very little stability , which could not be analysed .
Cyanate of ethyl acts most energetically on ethylene-diamine .
If the cyanate be poured into ethylene-diamine , each drop hisses like red-hot iron plunged into water .
The mixture solidifies into a mass of needles , which , when recrystallized from water or spirit , furnish the new compound in a state of purity .
The substance thus obtained presents the same composition as the product of the action of dibromide of ethylene-diethyldiammoniumn on cyanate of silver , visz C8 H11 No 02 .
The two ureas , however , are far from being identical .
The urea obtained by combining cyanate of ethyl with ethylene-diamine is easily soluble in boiling water , difficultly soluble in cold water , even less soluble in spirit , and almost insoluble in absolute alcohol .
It fuses , without decomposition , at 201 ?
, solidifying again at 185 ? .
This body is altogether indifferent .
I did not succeed in obtaining a platinum-salt or a gold-salt of this urea , while the isomeric substance , derived from ethylene-diethylamine , furnishes both salts without difficulty .
The non-identity of the two bodies is thus sufficiently established , but the absolute difference in their construction is most conspicuously manifested in the products of decomposition , which they yield under the influence of the alkalies .
Treated with potash , the urea , derived from ethylene-diethyldiamine and cyanic acid , yields ethylene-diethyldiamine and the products of decomposition of cyanic acid , carbonic acid and ammonia : C08 H18 N402+4KH 0=2K2 C 03+2H3 N+C , HI1 N , The urea , on the other hand , which is formed by the action of ethylene-diamine on cyanic ether , splits into ethylene-diamine and the derivatives of cyanic ether , carbonic acid and ethylamine : C H-I8 N402+4K HO=2 K2 C 03+2C2 7 N+C2 HN , .
It is thus evident that the two individual groups of elements , the union of which gives rise to the two different ethylated ethyleneureas , remain as such unaltered in these compounds .
The observations which I have recorded render it very probable that many of those substances known as compound ureas , and hitherto supposed to be identical , might on closer examination prove to be isomeric only .
Diethylurea , obtained by treating cyanate of ethyl with ethylamine or with water , differs indeed most conspicuously in its properties from diethylurea , produced by the action of cyanic acid on diethylamine .
Under the influence of potash these two bodies split , the one into carbonic acid and ethylamine , the other into carbonic acid , ammonia , and diethylamine .
Even the ethylurea , prepared by cyanic acid and ethylamine , differs in some of its physical properties from the ethylurea obtained by the action of ammonia on cyanic ether , although both substances yield under the influence of chemical agents exactly the same products of decomposition , viz. carbonic acid , ammonia , and ethylamineo The experiments described in this Note were made in Dr. Hofmann 's laboratory .

