A paper was read , entitled , " Experiments on the chemical consti ?
tution of several bodies which undergo the vinous fermentation , and on certain results of the chemical action .
" By Robert Rigg , Esq. , F.R.S. The special object of this paper is to show , first , that sugar is not constituted of carbon and water only ; secondly , that during the vinous fermentation water is decomposed ; thirdly , that neither pure carbonic acid nor alcohol is , in the common acceptance of the term , the product of this chemical action ; and fourthly , that fermented liquors owe some of their valuable qualities to peculiar products formed during fermentation .
In order to trace the various chemical changes which occur in this part of his research , the author has had recourse to numerous experiments , the details of which are recorded in tabular forms .
The first table exhibits the analysis of different kinds of sugar , honey , treacle , grape-juice and extract of malt and hops , the general result of which is that all these compounds contain oxygen in excess above the proportion in which it exists in water , and that they also contain a small quantity of nitrogen .
He shows , by two independent modes of experimenting , that these bodies , when in solution , can ?
not be the only compounds undergoing decomposition during that fermentation , which has for its product spirit and carbonic acid ; and in ]3roof of this proposition he recapitulates the different elements in the compounds at the commencement and at the conclusion of the experiments .
He finds that when the proximate elements are made the subject of calculation , the weight of the alcohol ( consti ?
tuted of two equivalents of carbon , three of hydrogen and one of oxygen ) added to that of the carbonic acid and undecomposed sugar , exceeds the weight of the sugar employed by about 7 per cent. On recapitulating the ultimate elements , he finds that the hydro ?
gen and the oxygen in the compounds after the fermentation ex ?
ceed their quantity in the sugar experimented upon , by 15 per cent. of the former , and nearly 14 per cent. of the latter ; and as a proof that no material error is occasioned by the mode of experimenting , it is found that the difference between the quantity of carbon at the first and at the last is very small .
Having arrived at these conclusions , the author infers from his experiments that the water of solution is decomposed by the carbon of the dissolved vegetable matter , in every case of the vinous fer ?
mentation , and in proportions proximately represented by the following formulas : viz. 2 equivalents of the carbon of sugar .
6*12 .
12*24 ) 1A,9A - , fi f2 equivalents of the hydrogen of the water 1 .
2J 14 ^ ?
'enant g*8 .
1 equivalent of the carbon of the sugar ... 6-12 . ?
'12i 22-12 carbonic acid .
2 equivalents of the oxygen of the water ... 8* .
16* ) This decomposition he conceives is brought about by the influence of nitrogen , a very small quantity of which enters into the constitu ?
tion of the olefiant gas , forming the base of all spirituous fluids of the alcohol and ethereal kind ; and thus each compound experimented upon , forms these products in proportion to the quantity of carbon which undergoes chemical change , whether that compound be sugar , soluble parts of malt , grape-juice , or any other body .
The author proceeds to inquire into the constitution of the products which result from this chemical action .
He finds the gas which is given off to be composed of carbonic acid , mixed with a small proportion of carburetted hydrogen ; and the spirit , when subjected to careful analysis , to resolve itself into carbonic acid , water , and a very small proportion of nitrogen : and in further proof of the existence of this last-mentioned element in spirit , the author has recourse to the ultimate analysis of the charcoal obtained from alcohol and olefiant gas , a mode of experimenting which he con ?
ceives is less liable to error .
He states that the views thus sought to be established are confirmed , not merely by these direct experiments , but likewise by other changes which fermented liquors undergo on being kept under circumstances favourable for further chemical action ; and that having proved the existence of such a compound as one constituted of car ?
bon , hydrogen and nitrogen , and shown that water is decomposed during its formation , he thinks we are enabled to account for many other changes which occur during the decomposition of vegetable matter and the growth of plants : whence he proceeds to show that evidence of the presence of such a compound as the above in fer ?
mented liquors is afforded by the changes which take place in consequence of keeping them .
On subjecting to ultimate analysis the semi-fluids obtained by ex ?
posing fermented liquors to a temperature of 110 ?
Fahr. , the author found a decided difference between the chemical constitution of those procured from old , and those from new vinous fluids ; and on searching for the law by which these differences are regulated , he found that the spirituous part entered into such combination with the excess of oxygen before referred to , and the undecomposed ve ?
getable matter , so as to form with them new compounds .
After experiencing some difficulty in effecting a separation of these newly formed bodies , he found that while rectified pyroxylic spirit , of the specific gravity from 830 to 835 , scarcely dissolved an appreciable quantity of the extract of malt and hops , considerable portions of the semi-fluids obtained from old ale and old porter were , by agitating , dissolved therein .
By using this spirit as a solvent he effected such a separation as enabled him to discover decided differences between the proximate chemical constitution of the semifluids obtained from old ale and old porter , and those from liquors of the same description when new .
In accounting for many of the phenomena which accompany the vinous fermentation , the author observes that the small excess of oxygen found in all these compounds , which undergo this chem cal action , is an essential and indispensable circumstance ; a conclusion which is corroborated both by the formation of these new compounds which have been described , and by the generation of the acetic , tartaric , or malic acid , which is found in fermented liquors at all times , and in quantities varying according to the situations un ?
der which these fluids have been kept .

