fig : 1 .
D fig : 3 .
ER fig : 8 .
Q C FPS BG II .
Observations on staining the Fingers with a Solution of Silver in Aqua Fortis , &amp;c. In a Letter from Mr Anthony Van Leuwenhoek , F. R. S. Delft in Holland , March 3 .
1705 .
SEveral Months ago , I took 24 Ounces of mixed Metal , and put the same into Aqua Fortis , and set it on Warm Sand , and there being a fault in the Glass , it cracked ; by which some of the Aqua Fortis , which was impregnated with Silver , run into the Sand , and I do n't know but I might have lost Gold also in the same .
This Sand , as much of it as was wet , I got together , and tho ' I took all the care imaginable , that the wet Sand should not stick to my Fingers , yet I saw the tips of them were stained , that I could see a discolouring of the Skin with my naked Eye ; and as this happened in the Evening I washed my Hands in common Water , and I saw the next day , that the tips of most of my Fingers were black .
I then took , according to the Surgeon 's Instructions , some fresh Butter to get the blackness off of my Hands and Fingers , but how hard soever I rubbed them with the said Butter , yet I could not so much as stir the blackness ; so then I took some Soap , but all in vain .
I rubbed my Thumb on a Grindstone with Water and Sand , which lessened the blackness a little , but did not take it quite off .
The third day , looking very attentively upon my black Fingers , I resolved to cut off some thin Scales of the Skin , and to see if I could get any Silver out of it , so as to be able to perceive that it was Silver .
I cut off some small pieces of Skin with a sharp Knife , without fetching the least drop of Blood after it , which pieces of Skin being no bigger than the 4th part of my Nail , I laid on Charcoal , such as is used by the Gold and Silver Smiths , and with the help of a Pipe , I blew the flame of a Candle very gently npon the small Particles of Skin that were cut off , which frying in the flame , a great many Bubbles of Air rose in them ; and at last , driving more Fire upon them , the Skins were burnt , and the Particles of Silver with which they were laden remained , being melted into round Globules , insomuch that I judged that a thousand of the smallest could not make one great one ; and narrowly viewing some of the largest , I could see that they were composed of abundance of small Globules , which the Fire was not strong enough to dissolve into a perfect Roundness ; these aforementioned Silver Globules were not so big as to be seen with the naked Eye .
I repeated this Operation the fourth day , after my Hands had been so stained , and that with the same success .
I brought these Silver Globules before two Microscope ; that some others who delighted therein might see them , and say in jest concerning the same , that I could bring Silver out of my Skin ; but it is in this matter as by the Chymists , who bring Gold and Silver out of that in which it was before ; but to make Gold or Silver , or to increase it , finds no Credit with me .
When I had placed the said Particles of Silver before a Glass , and had showed it to a Gold and Silver Smith , I took so much delight in it , that I caused a Draught of it to be taken .
Fig. 6 .
ABCDEFGHI shows the abovementioned Silver Globules as they appeared thro the Microscope , and as they were joined to one another in Melting ; from whence appears that the Fire was not hot enough to form 'em all in one Globule , and in my opinion they were no bigger than one course Grain of Sand .
Yyyyyyyyyy Fig. Fig. 7 .
K. L. M. N. O. P. Q. shows also some Silver Globules , which were melted in the Fire , after the same form , and which came also out of a small piece of Skin of my Fore-finger , that was not bigger than the 4th part of my Nail .
That round part marked K , L , M , was also surrounded with a great many small Bubbles , that were all of them Melted , but not so compleatly as to be joined in one .
Now that I am speaking of Aqua fortis that was impregnated with Silver , I ca n't let slip the opportunity of telling you , that some time ago , my Middle Finger , against which the Pen leans when I write , had a sort of a Swelling , which often pained me when I squeezed it , so that I was resolved for 6 or 8 days to cut off that swelling with a little Knife ; and I fancied that there might be in that place a bit of Glass under the Skin , as happened to me formerly in another place ; wherefore I opened the Skin with a Needle in that place several times , and raked in it , until the Blood came , but I could not discover any Glass ; at last , after I had cut off the Swelling , I~lookt on the place with a Microscope , and found that there was a small roundness in the Skin that was cut off , which I loosened as much as I could with a sharp Needle round about ; and taking hold of it with a Pair of Tweezers , I pulled a long Particle out of the Skin , which was about the thickness of a slender Pin , and about ten times as long as its Diameter , ending in a point , having at the Root of it some small Vessels or Veins , out of which I could perceive it received its Nourishment .
In the Concavity of the Skin , out of which the said Thorn-like Particle proceeded , I thrust a little bit of Roman Vitriol , and then I dropped a little Water on the Vitriol , that it might dissolve , and that it might kill the Roots from whence this Thorn-like Particle sprung ; and tho I repeated this several times , yet it grew in a few days again .
Hereupon I took some Aqua fortis , and dropped a small drop of it into the Concavity of the Skin , and as soon as it was there , it seemed as if it boiled ; which was occasioned by the Air Bubbles that endeavoured to force their way out ; as soon as the Aqua fortis had penetrated it to the sensible part of the Skin , it caused a Pain , which I endured a little while , and then I poured some common Water on my Finger to weaken the Aqua fortis ; but quickly after the Thorn-like Particle was increased , as before .
I took the second time Aqua fortis , and let it lye so long on the Skin , that it smarted more than it did before ; and since that time I have not perceived that Particle to grow any more .
I have lying on my Desk a Linen Handkerchief , which was stained with Aqua fortis impregnated with Silver , with a black spot about as large as a shilling ; after that this Handkerchief had been washed 6 times , and laid to bleach , I cut out the black spot , and burnt it upon a bit of Charcoal , and viewed what remained thro a Microscope , which I found to consist of several Thousand Globules of Silver , of an exceeding smallness .

