]\gt ; 1875 .
] Production of Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
Sexual difference iu the eight of the brain overrides the iuence of stature , or subsists in spite of his eater stature , which has tendency to diminish his proportionate momlt of brttin .
Further comp lisous show that the stature ratio , as it may be called , diminishes with the height less markedly less constantly ill the case of the cerebrum in case of the celebellum , which latter organ , therefore , obeys iufluence of statnre more exactly and implicitly , so ffi as regards its reIative proportion to the body .
3 .
It becomes evident , and be , that { of other influences ulating the veights ihether these be sex , age , occupation , education , or iLre Iiable to errol unless the influence of stature be first eliminated .
nces o this tement are easy to find .
4 .
It in this modo be demonstrated what is the true influence sex , age , diseftse , and other causes .
5 .
Lastly , in this alone can we arrive , as it seems to me , a correct appreciation of residual cause of or iation the veight of the encephalon and its , especially of the ccrebrum , hich m be called its , as an iudependent or quasi-independent 6 .
This esidual ltion , it may be , is { han any other , a fact iously of the highest terest { importance .
In of these propositions , others of greiLter detail , I propose to make a lengthened tiou hftcr .
XVIII .
On a General Method of producing exact Rectilinear Motion by work.\ldquo ; By A. 13 .
, of the late Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. J. .
Received June 4 , 187 Since the invention by Wntt , , of -bar liu ork as " " Watt 's Ptl.allel Motion ) motion , many itttempts lutYe becIl m. to foct tion of the problem to of .
Professor i11 )-bnr work giving a much closer to ) i11 , as in of others , the ] ) } , it that with 3 t.Rlltof .
It as not until lS64 cellier made his memoraf ) ) in when tho )jcct ) ) ] in ud by Professol Syh , ] } ) ) , A ssociation , a of ) ] is now well 1-nown , crsion vilh r a point on its circumfc:ronce .
566 Mr. A. B. Kempe on the production of [ June 17 , M. Penucellier 's atus is shown in fig. 10 .
PO , OK , KD , DP fll.e four equal bnrs jointed together their extremities ; are bal.s ffiso equal , but ullequal to the four others ; they are jointed to the others and and to a fixed pivot at B. It is then easily see1l ever this linkage*is deformed , in a straight , and the product is .
Thus if be made , by ns of the bar A jointed to the fixed point , whose from equals A , to describe a circle through , the point will describe the inverse of the circle\mdash ; that is , the ight line OL perpendicula1 to A. Mr. Hart 's apparatus is shown in fig. 15 .
the six bars BP , of M. Peaucellier in fig. 10 he substitutes the four bars and takes three points , , on a line parallel to ; these points , however the linkage be deformed , lie in a straight line , and the product is always constant .
Thus being made , by the bar equal to and pivoted at , to describe a circle passing through the fixed point , as the case of M. Peaucellier 's linkwork , describes the straight line perpendicular to U. A passage in a lecture on M. Peaucellier 's discovery delivered by Professor Sylvester at the Boyal Institution , in which he pointed out that there might other solutions , led me to investigate the subject further ; and I succeeded in obtaining certain 7-bar linkworks producing rectilinear motion , depending on two bars being made to make equal variable angles in opposite directions with a third bar .
These results were described in a paper published in the ' Messemger of Mathematics ' of December 1874 ; they are shown in figs. 6 , 12 , 13 , 14 of this paper , and ill be further referred to .
Further investigation led me to the discovery that all these linhworks depended for their production of ight liJles on an exceedingly and obvious property of any quadrilateral whose sides are of constant length .
The tion of this property at once led to the discovery of alalge number of linkworks , of which M. Peaucellier 's , Hart 's , and those prel'iously discovered by myself proved to be particular cases , the version property of the two eiJlg , so to say , accidental .
It is the obiect of this paper to point out this property , and how it may be taken advantage of in the construction of number of 7-bar straight-line-producing linkworks .
*Professor Sylvester has employed this term to mcan a network composed of au evcn number of bars .
When one bar is fixed , so that its joints become fixed pivots , the system is tormed a linkwork . ?
875 .
] Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
) The property alluded to is this : The cosines of the opposite of any quadrilateral whose sides are of constant length , but whose are variable , bear a relation to each other .
S 1 .
In fig. 1 , A B CD is any of which the sides A A are of the lengths respectively .
Then it is clear that That is , there is a linear relation of the most general character between the cosines of the liable angles and D. Before , however , this property can be taken advantage of something more is required ; the angles whose cosines bear a linear relation to each other are the opposite angles of a closed quadrilateral ; and for our purpose it is necessary that they should be the ngles at the base of an open trilateral\mdash ; i. , to employ the language of linkwork , the angles made with a third bar by two which are jointed to it .
To effect this transformation let the second quadrilateral A be constructed equal in every respect to A , and having its sides A collinear with the sides A of AB , but placed in a reverse position so as to be the image of A D. This now quadrilateral may be termed the " " conjugate image\ldquo ; of A , the whole figure forming what may a " " seIf-conjugltte sextilateral VOL. XXIII .
Mr. A. B. Kempe on the production of [ June 17 , It is clear that the angle is equal to the angle ; thus we have the sides of the open trilateral making angles with A whose cosines bear a linear relation to each other however the figure be deformed .
Since , bowever , the relation is an angle relation , it is unnecessary that the conjugate image should be equal to the original quadrilateral ; for if the figure A be constructed similar to A the angle is clearly equal to the angle , and we have the sides making angles with A whose cosines bear a linear relation to each other .
This makes our resuIts more general ; and we are moreover able to make the points and , or the points and , coincide if necessary .
This more general form of figure , consisting of two quadrilaterals , one of which is the enlarged or reduced positive or negative image of the other , may still be appropriately termed a " " self-conjugate sextilateral the quadrilaterals being still called the ome the " " self-conjugate \ldquo ; of the other .
S2 .
Now let the linkage in fig. 2 be constructed , Fig. 2 .
in which A , A being positive or negative , and greater , equal to , or less than unity , so that the forms a self-conjugate sextilateral , the quadrilaterals A BC , A being self-conjugate images the one of the other .
Now take any point on , and let , and take a point on such that .
Draw ' to A B. Then 1876 .
] Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
and Thus by ( 1 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
a constant .
On the other hand , is in general variable .
The linkage in fig. 2 , which will assume innumerable forms by di#erent values to , and , is the fundamental linkage upon which the various linkworks here discussed depend .
As the same lettering will be preserved throughout the diagrams , the fundamental linkage be at once recognized in each figure showing its various adaptations .
For clearness the bars are denoted by thick lines , the joints by round spots ; when a bar becomes fixed so that its joints are fixed pivots , the bar is denoted by a broken line and the pivots by circles round the spots .
points in general sepal.ate are made coincident , the letters denoting all the coincident points are bracketed together .
It is found venient to collect the different linkworks into four groups , a separate section , numbeled to correspond with the figure , being devoted to each separate linkwork described .
I. S3 .
Take so that .
Fig. 3 .
Then if the ) A be fixed two bars be dded , ; clearly lies on A ever the linkwork be deformed , its locns is therefore the straight A B. I he tivP .
Mr. A. B. Kempe on the production of [ June S4 .
If iu this last linkwork we , then and coincides with , , , D. Fig. 4 .
The linkwork then asstlmes the form given in fig. 4 .
S5 .
Again , in the linkwork of S 3 , if and then and is indeterminate .
may then be taken anywhere on and since lies vertically above P. Also PO and may be taken of any lengths so long as Fig. 5 .
S 6 .
Here we have a special case of the linkwork in the last section in .
In this case and are equally inclined 1875 .
] Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
to A in opposite directions ; and the linkwork is one of those given by me iu the ' Messenger .
' Fig. 6 .
S 7 .
This case does not strictly come under the same head those comin before , but is au exceptional one .
Fig. 7 .
Since and in S vertically the one over the other , it is clear that if the links be added , Iies on the straight line OB perpendicular to A , and thus is the locus of O. II .
S 8 .
Make the fundamental linkage , so that and coincide .
Fix A , add the bars , making Mr. A. B. Kempe on the production of [ June 17 , then R is to , , B. Thus , if be drawn perpendicular to A N. Therefore , a constant .
Fig. 8 .
Thus the loci of and are two parallel ight lines perpendiculnr to A B. The two added bars may clearly be replaced by the parallel to them ; and the points , where these bars out the liue , will move in straight lines perpendicular to A B. III .
S 9 .
Fix A B. Then coincides with , , , , , by the new bars so thnt is parallel to D. Add the bars to K. efore to 1875 .
] Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwrk .
Draw perpendicular to A B. Then Therefore , a constant .
Thus the locus of is the straight line perpendicular to A B. S 10 .
Now in the last linkwork make Then coincides with and the linkwork becomes that of M. Petnlcellier .
Fig. 10 .
IV .
S 11 .
Taking the fundamental linkage in its most general form , fix the point on a pivot .
Now if the A be made to always parallel to the fixed line , since is constant , will move on the straight line perpendicular to S. The parallelism of A is effecfed most obviously by adding the bar equal to being to T. Other methods may , however , be employed ; for if A be joined cutting in is a fixed point ; and if be drawn parallel to is constant and is a fixed point on D. So if be drawn ralled to is constant and Mr. A. B. Kempe on the production of [ June 17 , is a fixed point on A D. Thus the bar may be replaced by either of the bars or W. Fig. 11 .
S 12 .
In the case in which the bar is in the last section , make and make coincide with A. Then coincide , and the bars are equally inclined to in opposite directions .
This linkwork is one of those given by me in the ' Messenger .
' 1875 .
] Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
S 13 .
the hnkwork of S 11 make , and make and coincide .
Then coincide , and the bars make equal angles with A in opposite directions ; and the lin is one of those given by me in the ' Messenger .
' Fig. 13 .
S 14 .
The peculinr form of the linkwork employed in the last may GiLsily be seen to be really the same as used in S5 .
From the property of the equal inclination of the bars BC , to another form of linkworJr obtained which does not , strictly king , come under this group , but is exoeptional one .
Fig. 14 . .
XXTT I. Mr. A. B. Kempe on the production of [ June 17 , is produced to any point and a point is taken on such that Q. ABis fixed .
The bars are added .
Then clearly moves on the straight OL perpendicular to A being equal to .
This linkwork was given by me in the 'Messenger .
' S15 .
In the linkwork of S11 replace the bar by the bar V. Make Fig. 15 .
it will be seen that coincides with and the bars A , A become superfluous and may be removed .
There then remains Mr. Hart 's 5-bar linkwork .
This is the only 5-bar linkwork rectilinear motion that has as yet been obtained .
S 16 .
In many of the previous cases the point , which moves in a straight line , be found to be connected to a fixed point through which the straight line passes by two equal bars .
Whenever this occurs the motion of the bar containing the moving point is of the sort described by Professor Sylvester as tram motion That is , its motion is that of bar sliding between fixed rectilinear trammels , or , to present this motion in its fullest generality , the motion of a plane in which a whole series of points on a circle move each of them in straight lines passing through a fixed point .
Turning to fig. 16 , if be equal bars and moves in the straight line passing through , then if be produced to so that obviously moves in the straight line perpendicular to , so that slides between the two straight lines .
In this it is clear that point attached to the bar a distance from 1875 .
] Exact Rectilinear Motion by Linkwork .
describes a straight line through , the angls being one half of the angle .
This greatly adds to the usefulness of the linkworks .
It is not suggested that the linkworks here given exhaust 7-bar line orks ; indeed it is obvious that many of them are suscep- tible of variations .
Enough , however , has been shown to demonstrate the important part which the property of a quadrilateral combined with the principle of the conjugate image stated at the outset plays in the question .
I have strictly confined myseIf in this paper to the consideration of the rectilinear motion of a point .
The principles involved , however , are applicable to many other problems , as , for example , the motion of bars point in which moves in one of a series of ] straight lines or in the same ight line .
By means of the peculiar form of the meutal linkage given in figs. 6 , 13 , 14 , valuable resuIts in the reversal or multiplication of angular motion may be obtained , a linkage of bars may be constructed which will divide any angle into equal parts .
of these questions have been treated of by me in my paper in the ' Messenger of Mathematics , ' referred to , which , however , written before I obtained the genernl results here given .
The extension of these results to other problcms is reserved for future investigation .

