XXIII .
On the Satellites of the Planet Saturn , and the Rotation of its Ring on an Axis .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F. R. S. Read June 17 , 1790 .
IN my last Paper on the Planet Saturn , the principal object of which was to give an immediate account of the most interesting phenomenon that had occurred till the beginning of November , many things were left unnoticed for want of time to treat of them with sufficient accuracy ; but having now before me the whole series of observations from the 18th of July till the 25th of December , 1789 , I can enter into a proper examination , assisted by such necessary calculations as then could not conveniently be made .
One of the principal motives which have induced me to hasten this inquiry , is the frequent appearance of protuberant and lucid points on the arms of the ring of Saturn .
I have mentioned before that such phenomenon had been resolved by the situation of satellites that put on these appearances ; but as my observations were continued near two months afterwards , and as I had from them corrected the epochae of the old satellites , and improved the tables of the new ones , I found that , besides many of these bright points which were completely accounted for by the calculated places of the satellites , there were also many more mentioned in my journal that would not accord with the situation of any of them .
The question then presented itself very naturally , what to make of these protuberant points ?
To admit two or three more satellites by way of solving such phenomenon appeared to me too hazardous an hypothesis ; especially as these lucid points , though some of them had a motion , did not seem willing to conform to the criterion I had before used of coming off the ring , and showing themselves as satellites .
And yet a suspicion of at least one more satellite would often return ; it was even considerably strengthened when I discovered , by means of re-calculating with great precision the whole series of observations , that in the beginning of the season there had been some few mistakes in the names of the satellites , when the observations of them were entered in the journal .
In setting them right , which threw a great light upon the revolution of the 6th , and more especially upon that of the 7th , I found also , that some of the observations which were entered by the name of the 7th satellite could not belong to that , nor to any other known one .
It remained therefore to be examined whether there might not be sufficient ground to suspect the existence of an eighth satellite .
In this situation of things , I thought it most advisable to draw out the whole series of observations in a paper , beginning at the 5th satellite , and thus gradually through the 4th , 3d , 2d , 1st , 6th , and 7th , to approach towards the center of Saturn ; that it might appear at last what observations were left unaccounted for .
By this means also it will be seen clearly with how scrupulous an attention the identity of every satellite has been ascertained ; and with a view to give the strongest satisfaction in this respect , at least one observation of each has been calculated for each night ; and the place thus computed is put down in the notes , that it may be compared with the observed one .
To facilitate this comparison , I have delineated a scheme * , wherein the orbits of the satellites are drawn in their due proportion .
A few words will explain the construction and use of this figure , which , notwithstanding its simplicity , is yet amply sufficient to ascertain the accuracy of every observation .
In each of the orbits , by way of marking them , is placed the satellite to which it belongs , as it appeared to be situated the 18th of October , 1789 .
The graduated circle is of use to find , by means of the tables , the apparent place of a satellite for any given time ; or , the apparent situation of the same satellite being given , its real Saturnicentric place may be deduced from it .
In the center of the scheme is the planet Saturn , and its ring , expressed by a line which represents the direction of its ansae ; or the ring itself , as it appeared in my telescopes during the months of July , August , September , October , and November , 1789 .
The five lines which are carried on parallel to each other serve to convey the measure of the planet , and its ring , to the orbits of the satellites , as will be seen in several instances that occur hereafter .
The graduated circle is divided into degrees , and begins to count from that part of every satellite 's orbit beyond the planet , which is intercepted by a plane passing from the eye of the observer , at rectangles to the ring , through the center of Saturn .
Hence it follows , that the point of zero , or 360 degrees , is the same with the geocentric place of the planet in those four parts of the orbit of the satellite where the eye is in the plane of the ring , and where it appears the most open ; and that , in other places , it may be had by solving one spherical triangle .
This is to be understood as relating only to * See Tab. XIX .
fig 1 .
the inner satellites ; the 5th , or outermost , requiring a different reduction , on account of its deviation from the plane of the ring .
Moreover , I am inclined to believe , that the surest way of observing the 5th , is to trust only to measures , taken with micrometers which give the distance and angle of position , except in such cases when the eye is nearly in the plane of this satellite 's orbit , where the different reductions may be neglected , without bringing on any considerable inaccuracies .
The order of the numbers by which 90 comes to the left , and 270 to the right , is taken from the motion of the satellites , as they appear to revolve in their orbits , when seen in telescopes of my construction ; and which is also the real direction of their motion according to the order of the signs .
But the points 360 and 180 must occasionally be changed in their denomination of north or south , according to the real situation of the plane of each satellite 's orbit .
At present , for instance , when the satellites are at 360 , that part of their orbits in which we find them lies to the south of the center of the planet ; but about the end of August , 1789 , and afterwards , the orbits of the six inner satellites were differently situated ; so that the same points then were turned towards the north .
I need not remark , that the situation of these points was changed again when the earth passed through the plane of the ring , and that it will change , in the 5th satellite likewise , when we come to be in the plane of its orbit .
The calculations of the places of all the satellites have been made according to tables which are given at the end of this Paper .
Their form being very simple , I thought it not amiss to communicate them , for the use of those who may wish to enter into a more particular examination of the following observations ; or to follow the satellites in their orbits at any future time .
It will be proper to mention , that I have deduced the epochae of all the seven satellites from my own observations , and they will be found to differ considerably from those which are given by M. DE LA LAND , in the Connoissance des Temps for 1791 .
But I have not attempted to extend them farther than a few years backwards or forwards , as I am not in possession of any observations that could authorize me to undertake such a work .
On the contrary , I am well convinced , that no tables will give us the situation of the satellites accurately , till we have at least established the dimensions of their elliptical orbits , and the motion as well as the situation of their aphelia .
The epochae for 1789 , therefore , must be looked upon not as mean ones , but such as respect the orbits of these satellites in their situation during the time of the following observations ; and the two preceding , and two following years , must be already a little affected with those errors which are the necessary consequence of our not knowing the required elements .
I flatter myself , however , that the observations , which are delivered in this Paper , will serve as a beginning to a proper foundation for investigating them .
The many conjunctions between the satellites , for instance , will undoubtedly throw some light on the situation and excentricity of their orbits ; as it will be found , that the calculated places of these conjunctions require elliptical motions to bring the satellites to such appearances , which , in circular orbits , could not so accurately have taken place .
Nor can we ascribe the disagreements to the fault of the observations , since a very few minutes will suffice to determine the time of a conjunction , which never lasts long .
For this reason also , I have carefully avoided deducing my epochae from conjunctions , even with the 6th satellite , which moves so rapidly that , at first sight , we might think those situations favourable .
The mean motion of the five old satellites , as being sufficiently accurate for my present purpose , I have taken from the above-mentioned tables of M. DE LA LAND ; and those of the 6th and 7th , of course , are the result of my own observations .
The geocentric place of Saturn , whose complement is to be added , in order to reduce the Saturnicentric situation of the satellites to the apparent one , I have taken from the nautical almanac to the nearest minute ; and , as I have always confined myself to a literal transcription of the observations from the original journal , all the memorandums which are necessary either to explain them , or to correct mistakes in the names of the satellites , are thrown into notes , that there may be no interruption in the succession of the observations .
Observations on the fifth satellite of Saturn .
1789 , July 18 .
20 h. 20~ ( A ) .
The supposed fifth satellite ( B ) 6o or 7o sp. ( C ) the ring ( D ) .
July ( A ) The time of my observations being sidereal , it is necessary to mention , that this relates only to the hours , minutes , and seconds , the day itself being that which is generally used by astronomers , beginning at noon , and ending the noon following .
By this means there can never be a mistake which sidereal hour I mean to point out , as no two such hours can occur in the same astronomical night .
It will also be necessary to remark , that all the times are those shown by the clock ; which , by equal altitudes , has been found to lose very equally at the rate of 0'',4 per day ; and to be 8'51'',5 too fast at midnight the 18th of July , 1789 , which is the time on which my observations on Saturn commenced .
( B ) The satellite itself not being known , it is here called the supposed fifth .
( C ) By six or seven degrees south preceding the line of the ring , is meant , July 23 .
19 29 .
The 5th sp. at a great distance ( E ) .
July 28 .
22 37 .
By a figure in the journal , at a great distance np .
( F ) .
Aug. 18 .
21 11 .
The supposed 5th at a great distance 25o np .
R. ( G ) .
Aug. 28 .
1 28 .
A line drawn through a large star north of Saturn , and passing between one pretty considerable star nf .
and another sf .
Saturn , leaves the supposed 5th satellite a little on the following side .
By two figures in the journal , the 5th is at a great distance nf .
~ .
( H ) .
Aug. 29 .
23 29 .
The supposed 5th is a very little preceding a line drawn from the large star of last night , through a very small star ; and a good deal following a line drawn from the that the satellite in the first place was at the preceding side of the planet ; that is , in the semicircle from 180 to 360 , which passes through 270 degrees .
And in the next , that the situation of its orbit was such as to bring the satellite , at its proper distance , into a line drawn from the center of Saturn , making an angle of 6 or 7 degrees with the line of the ring , and declining towards the south .
( D ) The calculated place for 20 h. 20 ' , shown by the clock , corrected by -8 ' 51'',5 , and reduced to 12 h. 22 ' 16 ' ' mean time , is 245o,5 which , as no distance is mentioned , leaves it doubtful whether the observation was that of the 5th satellite , or of a fixed star .
( E ) By calculation the situation is 268o,1 ; which agrees well enough for 11 h. 11 ' 47 ' ' mean time .
( F ) 13h .
59 ' 38 ' ' mean time gives 291o,5 , which agrees with the distance and direction ; but as the satellite was sp. the observation , which says np .
must belong to some small fixed star .
( G ) The calculation for 11h .
11 ' 27 ' ' gives 27o,4 or at a good distance sf ; therefore this was not the satellite , but a star .
( H ) It appears from the calculation for 14 h. 48 ' 29 ' ' which gives 74o,2 , and also from the following observations , that this was the real 5th satellite ; and that , having once obtained its place , I kept it in view all the rest of the season .
Dec. 16 .
23 59 .
The 2d , about 11/ 4 or 13/ 8 dia. of ~ p. the body ( Y ) .
Observations on the first satellite of Saturn .
July 18 .
19 50 .
The following part of the ring of Saturn , which is a very thin lucid line , ends in a bright point like a very faint satellite ( A ) .
I suppose the bright point on the f. part of the ring to be a very small fixed star ( B ) .
20 14 .
The bright point on the following part of R. seems to have its whole dia. towards the north ; and in all appearance adheres to the line .
0 48 .
Possibly the bright point on the nf .
part of the ring may be one of the satellites , and one of the before supposed satellites may be a small fixed star ( C ) .
( Y ) 6 h. 7 ' 58 ' ' .
307o,8 .
( A ) 11 h 52 ' 21 ' ' .
146,7 .
This shows , that the bright point was the 1st satellite .
( B ) Being the first night of my viewing the satellites this year , their places were unknown .
The 6th , which was in view , I took for the 1st satellite ; but , the 2d , 3d , and 4th being also before me , there remained only the supposition of some small fixed star to account for the bright point .
( C ) The motion of the bright point on the ring led me to the supposition of its being a satellite ; and , to make room for one , it occurred , that one of the others might be a star : for still the thought of an unknown satellite did not happen to strike me .
I should have made an attempt to calculate the places of the satellites by the manuscript tables of M. DE LA LAND , which are now printed in the Connoissance des Temps for 1791 ; but as there chanced to be an erratum of one day 's motion in the epochae of all the satellites for 1788 , of which I was not aware , I had so little satisfaction from them the year before , that I laid them by as useless , and resolved to investigate the epochae and revolutions of the satellites from my own observations .
Dec. 2 .
23 38 .
I suspect the 7th to be just detached from the f. arm ( X ) .
0 24 .
I cannot see the 7th , though I tried often for it .
0 56 .
The 7th sat. is not visible .
From the observations on the seven satellites of Saturn that have been here delivered , and closely compared with their calculated places , it appears evidently that the revolutions of these satellites are so well ascertained , that we may , without hesitation , determine that no phenomenon on the ring of Saturn , in the shape of lucid spot , protuberant point , or latent satellite , can be occasioned by any of them , when , upon computation , we find that the place of the satellite differs from that where such appearances were observed .
In consequence of this deduction , I found , that the observations , which will be given presently , could not be explained by any of the known satellites ; it remained , therefore , to be examined to what cause to ascribe the appearance of such lucid spots .
The first idea that occurred was that of another satellite , still closer to the ring than the seventh ; and if a revolution , slower than about 15 hours and a quarter , could have been found , which would have taken in the most material places in which bright spots were seen , I should have continued of opinion that an eighth satellite , exterior to the ring , did exist , notwithstanding more observations had been wanting to put the matter out of all doubt .
But this being impracticable , I examined , in the next place , what would be the result if these supposed satellites , or protuberant points , were attached to the plane or edge of the ring .
( X ) 6h .
41 ' 59 ' ' .
100o,0 .
As observations , carefully made , should always take the lead of theories , I shall not be concerned if such lucid spots as I am now going to admit , should seem to contradict what has been said in my last Paper , concerning the idea of inequalities , or protuberant points .
We may however remark , that a lucid , and apparently protuberant point , may exist without any great inequality in the ring .
A vivid light , for instance , will seem to project greatly beyond the limits of the body upon which it is placed .
If therefore the luminous places on the ring should be such as proceed from very bright reflecting regions , or , which is more probable , owe their existence to the more fluctuating causes , of inherent fires acting with great violence , we need not imagine the ring of Saturn to be very uneven or distorted , in order to present us with such appearances as will be related .
In this sense of the word , then , we may still oppose the idea of protuberant points , such as would denote immense mountains of elevated surface .
On comparing together several observations , a few trials show that the brightest and best observed spot agrees to a revolution of 10h .
32 ' 15'',4 ; and , calculating its distance from the center of Saturn on a supposition of its being a satellite , we find it 17 ' ' , 227 , which brings it upon the ring .
It is therefore certain , that unless we should imagine the ring to be sufficiently fluid to permit a satellite to revolve in it , or suppose a notch , groove , or division in the ring , to suffer the satellite to pass along , we ought to admit a revolution of the ring itself .
The density of the ring indeed may be supposed to be very inconsiderable by those who imagine its light to be rather the effect of some shining fluid , like an aurora borealis , than a reflection from some permanent substance ; but its disapparition in general , and in my telescopes its faintness when turned edge5 ways , ways , are in no manner favourable to this idea .
When we add also , that this ring casts a deep shadow upon the planet , is very sharply defined both in its outer and inner edge , and in brightness exceeds the planet itself , it seems to be almost proved , that its consistence cannot be less than that of the body of Saturn ; and that consequently , no degree of fluidity can be admitted sufficient to permit a revolving body to keep in motion for any considerable time .
A groove might afford a passage , especially as on a former occasion we have already considered the idea of a divided ring .
A circumstance also which seems rather to favour this idea is , that , in some observations , a bright spot has been seen to project equally on both sides , as the satellites have been observed to do when they passed behind the ring .
But , on the other hand , we ought to consider that the spot has often been observed very near the end of the arms of Saturn 's ring , and that the calculated distance is consequently a little too small for such appearances , and ought to be 19 or 20 seconds at least .
We should also attend to the size of the spot , which seems to be variable ; for it is hardly to be imagined that a satellite , brighter than the sixth , and which could be seen with the moon nearly at the full , should so often escape our notice in its frequent revolutions , unless it varied much in its apparent brightness .
To this we must add another argument drawn from the number of lucid spots , which will not agree with the motion of one satellite only ; whereas , by admitting a revolution of the ring itself , in 10 h. 32 ' 15'',4 ; and supposing all the spots to adhere to the ring , and to share in the same periodical return , provided they last long enough to be seen many times , that many of the observations are such as would also agree with other assignable periods , especially when the numbers of spots is so considerable as five ; but the most material observations , which are those on the spot ~ , setting aside all the rest , seem alone to amount to a proof not only of a rotation of the ring , but of the time in which it is performed .
It may be expected , that having now sufficiently examined the whole series of observations of the last new satellites , we can give their periodical times and distances more accurately than before .
The times , indeed , are full as well ascertained as we can expect to have them : for on calculating six satellites by my tables back to Aug. 19 d. 12 h. 19 ' 56 ' ' , 1787 , we find their places 341o,1 the 5th ; 10~,6 the 4th ; 211o,1 the 3d ; 158o,9 the 2d ; 80o,2 the 1st ; and 288o,8 the 6th .
And my journal contains the fullest assuracne that they were thus situated at the time for which this calculation is made .
We may therefore fix the period of the sixth at 1 d. 8 h. 53 ' 8'',9 .
The 7th satellite can only be traced back as far as the 8th of Sept. 1789 ; so that its revolution will require at least another season to come to some degree of accuracy , till when we shall state it at 22 h. 37 ' 22'',9 .
The distance of these satellites , deduced from calculation , depends entirely upon the time and distance of the 4th , which is the satellite that has been used .
In order to obtain more accuracy in these elements , I have applied myself to measuring the distance of the 4th satellite in those moments which were most favourable for the purpose .
It is well known that this subject , on account of the quantity of matter in Saturn , to be deduced from the periodical times and distances of the satellites , is of considerable importance to astronomers ; I shall

