A paper was also read , entitled , " On the Nature of Sleep .
" By A. P. W. Philip , M.D. F.R.S.L. &amp; E. The author intends the present paper as a continuation of his inquiries into the relations subsisting between the nervous and muscu ?
lar systems , which form the subject of his former papers , but which would be incomplete without the consideration of their condition during sleep .
With this view he proposes to determine the particular organs , on the condition of which this peculiar state of the system depends j the laws by which it is governed ; and the influence it has upon other parts of the system .
The necessity of intervals of repose applies only to those functions which are the medium of intercourse with the external world , and which are not directly concerned in the maintenance of life .
The organs subservient to these two classes of functions may be viewed as in a great degree distinct from one another .
The brain and spinal marrow constitute alone the active portions of the nervous system .
The law of excitement , which regulates the parts connected with the sensorial functions , including sensation , volition , and other intellectual operations , and the actions of the vo ?
luntary muscles , is uniform excitement , followed by a proportional exhaustion ; which , when occurring in such a degree as to suspend their usual functions , constitutes sleep ; all degrees of exhaustion which do not extend beyond the parts connected with the sensorial functions being consistent with health .
On the other hand , the law of excitement of those parts of the brain and spinal marrow which are associated with the vital nerves , and are subservient to the vital functions , is also uniform excitement - , but it is only when this excitement is excessive that it is followed by any exhaustion ; and no degree of this exhaustion is consistent with health .
The law of excitement of the muscular fibre , with which both the vital and sensitive parts of the hrain and spinal marrow are associated , namely , the muscles of respi ?
ration , is interrupted excitement , which , like the excitement of the vital parts of these organs , is , only when excessive , followed by any degree of exhaustion .
The author conceives that the nature of the muscular fibre is everywhere the same - , the apparent differences in the nature of the muscles of voluntary and involuntary motion de ?
pending on the differences of their functions , and on the circumstances in which they are placed : and he concludes , that , during sleep , the vital , partaking in no degree of the exhaustion of the sensitive system , appears to do so simply in consequence of the influence of the latter on the function of respiration , the only vital function in which these systems co-operate .
The author proceeds to make some observations on the cause of dreaming , the phenomena of which he conceives to be a natural consequence of the preceding proposition .
In ordinary sleep , the sen ?
sitive parts of the brain , with which the powers of the mind are asso ?
ciated , are not in a state of such complete exhaustion as to preclude their being excited by slight causes of irritation , such as those which accompany the internal processes going on in the system .
The sensorium is the more sensible to the impressions made by these internal causes , inasmuch as all the avenues to external impressions are closed , and the mind is deprived of the control itexercises , during its waking hours , over the train of its thoughts , by the help of the perceptions derived from the senses , and the employment of words for detaining its ideas , and rendering them objects of steady attention , and subjects of comparison .

