881 .
] Dr. G. Gore .
Phenomena of Capillary .
295 aolecules , the 42 molecules of bromide and chloride are still expandag .
Finally , from 133 ' C. to the fusing point , , all the molecules are xpanding , 42 of them quickly and 58 slowly .
And during this heating rom 0 ' C. to 133 ' C. , a highly crystalline brittle solid has been concerted , within the mass of two crystalline solids , into a plastic amorphous body .
VX " Phenomena of the Capillary Electroscope .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 23 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication is described an investigation of various of the conditions of the above phenomena .
The phenomena have been found to be purely physical except in those cases where the electricity was of too high tension and produced electrolysis , and in those in which the solution acted chemically upon the mercury .
The influence of the kind and strength of numerous solutions was examined , including those of various salts of neutral , alkaline , and sacid reaction , and of various acids , and the results are described .
Of the salts , some gave anomalous results ; alkaline cyanides , for instance , reversed the direction of the movements of the mercury .
Inferior conducting liquids , such as aqueous ammonia , gave feeble movements .
Good conducting solutions , such as neutral salts of the alkalies , potassic cyanide , and dilute sulphuric and phosphoric acids , yielded strong movements .
Both the kind and the degree of dilution of the various substances had great influence upon the results .
By examining the question of the influence of the relative dimensions of the mercurial surfaces it was found that no such influence existed , simply because one surface of liquid metal with a suitable solution was alone sufficient .
Attempts were made , but without success , to obtain the same movements of two aqueous solutions instead of mercury and a watery liquid .
Other effects , of apparent movement , \amp ; c. ( described in a separate communication , see " Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids , " ( ante , p. 250 ) , were obtained .
; The question as to whether the movements were wholly due to alteration of volume of the mercury was also investigated , and the conclusion arrived at was , that while a very minute alteration of volume did occur , nearly the whole of the movement was due to other causes .
The influence of adhesion was freely examined , and the hypothesis proposed that the motion is primarily due to a direct mechanical action at the immediate surfaces of contact of the mercury and solution , VOL. xxxi .
z 296 Dr. G. Gore .
Electric Currents [ Jan 6 consisting of either mutual attraction or repulsion of the two liquids and that the to and fro movement is a secondary circumstance arising from this in consequence of the greater adhesion of the solution than of the mercury to the tube .
The relations of the phenomena to heat and temperature are discussed , and the inference drawn that these influences perform only an unimportant part in the actions .
With regard to the electric conditions , it is observed that the phenomena are inseparably connected with electric transfer , and may be attended or not by electrolysis ; the latter , when present , being only a coincidence .
Various experiments were made with electricity derived from an electrophorus , and the effects obtained are described in different parts of the paper ; and the sensitiveness of the instrument to electric influence is illustrated .
From the various results obtained by the author and other investigators , a conclusion is drawn that the phenomenon is essentially one of electric convection ; that the primary mechanical movement at the two liquid surfaces is due to a more or less charged electric state of those surfaces , which under the conditions of unequal adhesion of the two liquids to the tube produces the to and fro movement .
The movements were independent of chemical action .
VII .
" Electric Currents caused by Liquid Diffusion and Osmose .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1880 .
The following experiments arose out of a research on " The Influence of Voltaic Currents on the Diffusion of Liquids .
" As the converse phenomena of electric diffusion and electric osmose of liquids would be the production of electric currents by liquid diffusion and osmose , I made various attempts to obtain them .
Other investigators have already obtained electric currents by means of the contact of two liquids.* Nobili appears to have been the first .
In his arrangement , each element consisted of a series of four glass cups , each containing an electrolyte , the liquids in the two terminal vessels being precisely alike , and containing platinum electrodes , and a second and third kind of liquid being in the two intermediate cups respectively .
Liquids of suitable specific gravity were selected , such as not to spontaneously mix .
The solutions were connected by means of liquids ( similar to those in the cups ) contained # Nobili , " Ann. de Chem. et Phys. , " vol. xxxviii , 1828 , p. 239 ; " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. xiv , 1828 , p. 169 ; Fechner , " Pogg .
Ann. , " rol .
xlviii , 1839 , pp. 1 to 225 ; Wild , " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. ciii , 1858 , p. 353 ; Schmidt , " Pogg .
Ann- , " vol. cix , 1860 , p. 106 ; Wiillner , " Pogg .
Ann. , " vol. cvi , 1859 , p. 454 , vol. cix , 1860 , p. 94 .

