330 Lord Blythswood .
On the Refle [ Mar. 19 , supposition that , as suggested by Lockyer and by Runge and Paschen , the helium from various sources is not quite homogeneous , but that different samples differ slightly in density .
I think that these numbers point to a possible division into groups .
The gas from brog-gerite appears to have the density 2*18 , that from samarskite 212 , and that from fergusonite 214 .
But the evidence is slender .
It is not impossible that the gas from cleveite is lighter ; it is unfortunate that the sample of cleveite gas was lost ; but its mixture with that from broggerite weighs less than the gas from broggerite alone .
It has not , I think , been noticed that the light emitted from a vacuum-tube containing cleveite gas has a richer orange-yellow shade than is shown by gas from broggerite , samarskite , and fergusonite .
This is doubtless due to a greater intensity of the red line ; but there is another difference .
The cleveite gas shows , in addition to the usual strong lines , a set of fairly strong lines between the very strong green , and the strong blue .
These lines have never been observed in samples of gas-from broggerite , samarskite , or fergusonite , no matter how high or low the pressure in the tube , or the intensity of the discharge .
But the difference of colour is so marked that it is easy , at a glance , to say whether any tube contains cleveite-helium , or helium from another mineral .
Taking the two lines of evidence together , they undoubtedly strengthen each other , and I am at present engaged in an attempt to fractionate the mixed gases from broggerite , samarskite , and fergusonite into two or more portions .
Mention should perhaps be made , in conclusion ; of Langlet 's determination of the density of cleveite-helium ( ' Zeit .
anorg .
Chem. , ' 10 , 287 ) .
The number he obtained , weighing in a globe of 100 c.c. capacity , was 2,00 .
His sample was examined spectroscopically , and appears to have been free from nitrogen and hydrogen .
It is unlikely that he can have made an error of 1'3 milligrams in weighing , especially as he determined the density three separate times .
It is not impossible , therefore , that he had under his hands gas much richer in some light constituent than it has been my fortune to fall in with .
Whether this is the case or not , further research must show .
III .
" On the Reflection of Rontgen Light from Polished Speculum-Metal Mirrors .
" By Lord Blythswood .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received March 13 , 1896 .
It has been generally supposed that the X rays cannot be reflected .
1896 .
] Light from Polished Speculum-Metal Mirrors .
331 Cathode Plan Section Wood Stand Scale 4 .
A , Vacuum tubes .
BB ' , Lead plate , 18 in .
x 12 in .
J in .
thick .
C , Hole 2 in .
diameter .
Pipes 2 in .
diameter x i in .
D , Speculum-metal mirrors .
E , Zinc box , 4 in .
x 4 in .
, 1 in .
deep .
E , Aluminium window .
G- , Objects .
H , Black cardboard .
I , Photographic plate .
Some experiments I have carried out in my laboratory at Blyths-wood induce me to believe that the X rays can be reflected .
vol. lix .
2 a 332 Lord Kelvin .
Note on Lord Paper .
[ Mar. 19 , I placed a vacuum-tube , A , behind a lead screen , BB , 18 in .
x 12^ in .
thick .
The screen had a 2-in .
hole in it with a 2-in .
pipe attached ; 4 in .
from the vacuum-tube was placed a speculum-metal mirror , 4 in .
X 2i , at an angle of 45 ' with the lead screen ; 4 in .
from the mirror was a light-tight zinc box , E , with aluminium window , F ; inside came first the objects , G , stuck on to a black cardboard , H , then I , the photographic plate .
The following objects were photographed in about 20 minutes :\#151 ; 1 .
Some brass clock wheels .
2 .
A screw-cutting gauge .
3 .
Two lead disks .
4 .
The mirrors , being two pieces of speculum-metal used by me to divide upon .
In Photograph 4 the crack between the plate can just be seen in the positive , but in the negative it is quite clear .
I hope to confirm the above experiments immediately : the delay ia caused by the vacuum-tubes having all broken down .
IV .
" Note on Lord Blythswood 's Paper .
" By Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received March 19 , 1896 .
Rontgen , in ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) of his original paper , * described experiments seeming to prove the X rays to be incapable of regular reflection .
He pointed out that the result of his experiment in ( 8 ) , seeming possibly due to regular reflection , might be explained otherwise .
Communications to the French Academy of Sciences , by Imbei't and Bertin-Sans ( March 2 , ' Comptes Rendus , ' pp. 524 , 525 ) and Battelli and Garbasso ( March 9 , ' Comptes Rendus , ' p. 603 ) refer to experiments proving not regular reflection , as from a polished surface , but a " diffuse " reflection .
This , as Sir George Stokes has suggested in letters which I have received from him in the last few days , might either be due , as indicated by MM .
Imbert and Bertin-Sans , to the reflecting surface , though polished for ordinary light , being rugged for light of the exceedingly short wave-length which may be attributed with probability to the Rontgen X rays ; or else to a sort of phosphorescence , or possibly fluorescence , with regard to X light , produced in the substance of the mirror .
One , and only one , of the photographs described in Lord Blythswood 's communication , seems possibly decisive in proving regular reflection from the polished speculum-metal which he used .
I enclose a copy of it , which may be clearer than that which accompanies his paper .
In this I see quite clearly a straight line , with its two ends next the letters A , B , which for brevity I shall call the line AB .
The space for * Translation in * Nature , ' January 23 , 1896 .

