]\gt ; 1889 .
] On Time-lag in the Magnetisafion of Iron .
II .
' On Time-lag in the lIngnetisation of Iron By J. WING , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , ofessor of Engineering in sity College , Dundee .
Received June 18 , When any ange is made to take place in the gnetic force acting on a piece of soft ( annenled ) , a considerable time before in the magnetism of the piece is complete .
The gishness w soft iron exhibits in ssuming its full magnetism when a magnetic force is imposed upon it was referred to follows in the account I , some years , of experiments on the magnetic qualities of iron : " " Some evidence was given that , in addition to much static hysteresis , there is a small amount of viscous in the changes of magnetism which follow langes of netising .
I repeatedly ved that when the mitgnetising current was applied to long wires of soft iron , eithcr or with more or less suddenness , there was a distinct up of the magnetometer after the rent 1 attained a value , measured by the deflection of the which it passed .
This action was sometimes so considerable as to oblige me to wait for some minutes before taking ths rending In his paper " " On the Behaviour of Iron and tecl under the tion of Feeble Magnetic orces , \ldquo ; Lord Rayleigh has the same pheuomenoll in .
In his expel the of the magnetic force to tion of the specimclt was studied by means of a uetometet .
furnished with a " " compensating coil the currcnt passed , hich was so placed that its acbion on the needle of the balanced the action of tbc iroll , giving no deflection .
When feeble ma.onetic { orces Jlied to iron or to steel , he found that a perfect balance be obtained by the ) osition of the ting coil , and so established the fact that the susccpti1oility to small nctic f ces , or to small es of , is a delinite hich is ) of the amount of of .
He obsves that with hard iron stecl the coil might be set so that neither at the moment of incv tue circuit of the current nor alte { thy dellection of the m means ( so the lnotcr decide ) the metal asumes its etic f neously .
He goes on to that soft 1U0 C complicated effects : " " When coil was so ) as to reducc as much as possible the cous eITect , ensued a of tho * Researches netism Phil. ' p. 'Phil .
Mag lIarch , 1887 , p. 230 .
Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June 20 , magnetometer needle . . .
in such a direction as to indicate a continued increase of magnetisation .
Precisely opposite effects followed the withdrawal of the magnetising force .
The settling down the iron into a new magnetic state is thus shown to be far instantaneous .
On account of the complication caused by the free swings of the needle , good observations on the drift could not be obtained with this apparatus , but it was evident that whilst most of the action was over in } or 4 seconds , the final magnetic state was not attained until after aboub 15 or 20 seconds Lord Rayleigh then cites my observation , quoted above .
In the following experiments Lord Rayleigh 's method of the compensating coil has been made use of for the purpose of examining in some detail this " " drift or " " creeping or quasl-viscous change of magnetism which follows any change in the magnetic force acting on soft iron .
The magnetometer was a light Thomson mirror directed by the horizontal component of the earth 's field , and having a free period of double swing amounting to nearly seconds .
The specimen of iron used in the greater number of the was a straight piece of ht thick wire cm .
in diameter and cm .
long , over which was slipped a tube with a sing solenoid wound upon it .
The wire was set in a vertical position , magnetically west of the magnetometer , with its top end on a with ] the mirror , and generally 6 cm .
distant from it .
The compensating coil was would on a wooden frame , which could be moved along a " " geometric slide\ldquo ; towards or from the magnetometer in the east-west line through the mirror , for the pose of balancing the magnetic effect of the 1ron .
In some of the iments another compensating coil was used to ance the effect on the magnetometer of ths magnetising solenoid , but generally the simpler plan was followed of including the effect of the solenoid in the determination of the compensating coil actlon on the magnetometer .
To prevent the vertical component of the earth 's field from act ng on the iron , a second magnetising solenoid was wound over the iirst , iirst and a constant CUl.rent of the proper strength to neutralise the earth 's field was in it without ruption .
The ma magnetising current was regulated by having in its circuit a box of resistance , and also the liquid slide described in my former * This allowed the magnetic orce to be changed either paper .
a suddenly or gradually , and the slide also lowed the me thod of deby numerous reversals of a cont nuous lie diminishi ng magnetic force to be resol.ted to whenever it was desired to reduce the iron to a magnctically netltral state .
To soften the wire it was heated to redness by being slowly , S18 , .
537 .
On Time-lag in the Magnetisation of Tron .
through a Bunsen flame .
After it was put in place the method of reversals was applied to extract a small amount of magnetism which it had acquired in being ndled .
In the which I shall first describe the effects of very feeble magnetic force were examined by and breaking the circuit of the solenoid while the currcnt was adjusted to a of less than c.g.s. It found that immediate effect of each make and break could be balanced very exactly by adjusting the position of the compensating coil , and so long as the magnebising was considerably less than .
the distance at which the coil had to be set to give this balance was as nearly as possible independent of the of the force , and was the same for\ldquo ; break\ldquo ; as for " " make The position of the coil was adjusted so that at the instant when the magnetising current was set up by pressing a contact key , there was no sudden detiection of the netometer mirror to either side .
When the compensation was right the spot of light si to drift slowly side to creaso of etism ; when there was ovel .
compensation , the spot of gave a quiver to the opposite sido before ' to drift , and the position of the coil was adjusted by drawiug it back little by little until the quiver on pressing down the key disappeared .
The mount of netism that was balanced wards measured by the iron , but leaving the magnetising solenoid and the compensating coil in place , and obscrving the deflection of the netometer w the same current ssed ough the empty solenoid and the compensating coil .
This deterthe imnlediate magnetic effect of the current on the iron , and the subsequent creeping up of the magnetism of course by the drifting of the netometer necdle hich had ensued ftftel applying current while its place .
In the following experiment a currcnt of 21 on the altlometer scale ( equivalent in this case to a netising forco of 0-L4 s. , after been completely tised , and after the compcnsating coil been adjusted to th illlnlcdiate effect .
taken secollds llld beconds ftfter " " make ; \ldquo ; at 60 beconds the culTent , and ) eter 1 vere ( seconds ftcr reitk.\ldquo ; inlmediate effect lallced 1 was alent to -five divisions of 8 8 8 ' ' \ldquo ; ometer .
13 5 VOL. I. Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June 20 , Adding to these the equivalent of the compensating coil , we ses that just after the immsdiate magnetising orce was suddenly applied , the value of the magnetism was 25 , which increased after 5 seconds to 33 , and after 1 minute to 38 ; and that when the magnetising force was suddenly withdrawn , there was at first a residual magnetism of 13 , which fell to 5 in 5 seconds , and disappeared altogether in less than 1 minute .
Next a current 41 ( producing a magnetising force of c.g.s. ) was made and broken in the same way .
The compensating coil scarcely required to be moved from its former position , and its equivalent on the magnetometer was now 48 .
The column headed\ldquo ; total\ldquo ; gives the sum of the magnetometer and the part balanced by the compensating coil .
Magnetomeler .
Time after " " make Observed .
Total .
48 20 68 79 Magnetomeler .
Time after " " make Observed .
Total .
48 20 68 79 Magnetomeler .
Time after " " make Observed .
Total .
48 20 68 79 Magnetomeler .
Time after " " make Observed .
Total .
48 20 68 79 Time after ' ' break Magnetometer .
31 60 ' 4 Here out of the whole original of 81 , a small parb refused to disappear after the lapse of a ) minute , and it is probable that with this magnetising some of the residual magneoism is rmanent .
The above results ftre shown in whero the indicate sequcnce of .
One scale division of the netolneter is equivalent to c.g.s. ullits of ( ( intensity of 1889 .
] On Time-lag in the tisation of lron .
netism ) .
The magnetic force dne to the solenoid be taken as approxlmately equal to the netic force the rod was barely 100 diameters long , this length should be sufficient to approximate to endlessness when oue is dealing with very low alues of susceptibility ) .
On this assumption , one scale division of the galvanometer is equivalent to of ; the initial instantaneous susceptibility , that is , the gradient , is , and the initial instantaneous permeability is 125 .
This value has been confirmed by a number of independent observations made with the same piece of annealed wire , and with another piece cut from the same hank and also annealed .
Taking the magnetism after 1 minute , the initial susceptibility as regards that is about 15 .
Precisely similar results have been obtained by reversing feeble magnetic forces .
So long as the forces are very small , the compensation for " " reverse\ldquo ; is the same as for " " make\ldquo ; and for " " break and the creeping of the magnetism in any given time after make , break , or reverse nearly proportional to the amount of the preceding change of magnetising force .
In following iments the force was raised to higher values , ab which this proportionality no longer held good .
before , the compensating coil was adjusted for each current to balance the eifect of " " make the iron being demagnetised by revet'sals immediately before the " " make lVhen a strong.er current was ftpplied , ohe coil had to be pushed nearer the magnetometer : but up to of c.g.s. or so , it was practicable to secure an instan{aneous balance by doing so .
Observations of the drift were taken at 5 and 10 second intervals during 1minut These given * To nake riLt large the top of the ) as this only 4 ) agnctometer .
A Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June 20 , FIG. 2 .
273 , the equivalent effect of the compensating coil being added on in each case to the actual magnetometer readings .
Iu fig. 2 , curves are os to show the elation of the current to ( a ) immediate magnetisation ; ( b ) netism a ft 5 seconds ; and ( c ) the magnetism .
mnu 1 minute .
The radient of the curve ( a ) at and near the origin is the same as of the correspon curve in fig. 1 , when allowance ade erence of scales .
In present instance one division of of , one division of magnetism is of gradient to increase very sensibly when ) exceeds about Some the results of ) I are also shown in fig. 3 , which gives time curves of the ) of Letisnl the first two stages ( currents 27 and 62 ) .
Similar curves for other ' be Cted from the table .
It should be noticed that the time 1889 .
] On Time-lag in the Magnetisation of Iron .
rate of creeping is by no means excessively great in the first instants afte contact is made ; it is on this fact indeed that practicability the method depends .
FIG. 3 .
Similar differences }veen the immediate and uItimate of magnetism present themselves when the netising force incrensed step by step .
In the .
experiment the coml ) ing coil was set so as to balance immediate effect of a feebIe magnetising current .
Then such a current was applied , and the creeping up of the netism dring 1 minute was obsel.ved .
At the cnd of the minute current was incl'eased by a small step : it was found that compensation was still or nearly so : in other words that the immediate effect of this increase of magnetising bore the same very nearly the same Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June 20 , to the increment of force as at the beginning of the process of magnetisation .
The creep up of magnetism was again observed a minute : then another small step up of the current was made , and so on .
The compensation remained nearly correct for a number of steps , bnt as the process was continued up the curve of magnetisation , it became apparent that the immediate effect was increasing , in other words that there was under-compensation , and that the compensating coil would have to be moved a little forward if an exact balance was to be maintained .
The resuIts of this experiment are given below ( Table II ) , and are exhibited in fig. 4 .
The magnetising current was increased from one to another of the successive values shown in the table at intervals of 1 minute in each case , by moderately quick movements of the sliding block in the liquid rheostat .
The changes of magnetic force were therefore not quite sudden ; each of them took perhaps a quarter of a second to complete .
Table II .
Immediate Additional illcrease Total Magnetising current .
magnetic of magnetism magnetism effect of ( after .
Total .
step .
1 minute .
1 minute ) .
23 90 ( 75\mdash ; ) 381 The step of 23 was too large to have its immediate effect balanced by the compensating coil in the positio11 in which the coil was set .
The magnetic effect of such a large step is conjecturally shown by the broken line marked in fig. 4 .
It will be noticed the points reached after 1 minute at each step lie well on a continuous curve , which is shown by a dotted line in the figure .
In Table II and fig. 4 one scale division of magnetising current equivalent to .
units of magnetising force , and one scaJe division of the magnetometer is equivalent to c.g.s. units of 3 .
The immediate value of is about 10 , as before , and this applies approximately throughout the range of magnetism deaIt here , with a slight increase towards the upper end of the range .
Higher up in the curve of magnetisation , however , the immediate effect of a small quick increment of magnetic force is greate , .
then ( owing to the greater steepness of the curve and ) ) it 1889 .
] On Time-lag in , Magnetisation of Iron .
a smaller proportion to the ultimate cffect .
This is well shown in the following experiment ( Table III and fig. Table III .
Magnetising culrell .
Step .
Total .
500 Magnetising effect .
Additional in Immediate .
1 luinute .
61 ( 142\mdash ; ) Here last step was too large for pel .
fact collll)ensation .
One scale division of current corresponds to .
units of magnetising force , and one scale division of the magnetometer corresponds to of SI .
The immediate ceptibility to small incrcments of force , ) , is now about 13 .
The magnetic viscosity is now so Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June 20 , great that this immediate effect is less than one-fourth of the whole change which the magnetisation has suffered by the time 1 minute has elapsed .
FIG. 5 .
To show clearly the region in the curve of nlagnetisation at which the experiment of Table III and fig. 5 was made , a curve is drawn in fig. 6 , showing , as the resuIt of a separate experiment , the relation bsolute measure of the intensity of magnetism to the magnetising force produced by the solenoid .
The region dealt with in Table III is at the place marked ( about 40 c.g.s. ) , and the dotted line drawn there shows the immediate value of after a 1-minnte pause .
The dotted line shows the corl.esponding gradient , or immediate value of d@/ d , when there is no previous magnetisation .
Another -step experiment of the same kind , made a place higher up , where the magnetising force of the solenoid was about 4 about again about 1.3 for the immediate effect ; and this was foUowed by a creeping to the extent of six or seven times the immediate effect .
The immediate netic effect of a small step is } the same whether the step is made quite suddenly by resistauce coil in the circuit of the magnetising solenoid , or comparatively gradually by means of the liquid slide , so that the ' occupies a sensible fraction of a second , or evell as much as lvhole second .
889 .
] On Time-lag in of Iron .
FIG. 6 .
small the step is it to be followed by a up of netism .
I been able to discover which would respond w the of perfect elasticity in .
a solid ( if there be true limit of elasticity ) , in the initia ] part of ocess of metisation , or after the )pplication of constant etisino .
force .
But pplication of a constant .
force oduces an effect which is a most interesting of one effect of in a .
It is well known when load ( sufficiently great to producc permanent ) is ) plied to iron wire , there , with the lapse of tilnc , 1lot only a certain amount of supple1nentary viscous extension ( the analogue of but a quasi-hardcning of the metal an ddition is made to the load .
* .
Soc. Proc ) , or .
Brit art .
" " of Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June of this is that the wire responds with great sluggishness to the additional load , and this sluggishness is greater the longer has been the preceding interval during which the load has been maintained constant .
To test whether , in like manner , the prolonged application of a constant magnetising force would produce what may be called magnetic hardening , I have made comparative observations of the time-rate of change of magnetism when a definite small increment of force is applied , the preceding force having been kept constant ( a ) for a short time and ( b ) for a long time .
The resuIt is to show that the process of magnetic after a small step is much slower when the preceding force has been in action for a long time than when it has been in action for only a short time .
The following experiment illustrates this well .
After raising the magnetising force to between 2 and 3 c.g.s. units , the compensating coil was adjusted to balance the immediate effect of a small increase of force , this increase being brought about by short-circuiting 1 ohm ( out of many ohms ) in the magnetising circuit .
When the compeIlsation had been adjusted , the iron was demagnetised by reversals , and the magnetising force was again gradually applied .
When it reached the value of c.g.s. , a pause was made for .3 minutes , during which time this magnetising force of remained constant .
The resistance in the circuit of the magnetising current was hen suddenIy reduced by1 ohm , which had the effect of raising the force to .
The compensating coil prevented this step-up of magnetising force from having any instantaneous effect on the magnetometer ; but creeping , of course , began at once , and the timerate of creeping was observed during 10 minutes .
Then the magnetising current was kept constant for 50 minutes more , making 1 hour in all , and a second step-up of magnetising force was effected by removing another ohm of resistance : the second step was very nearly equal to the first , and raised the force to c.g.s. The time-rate of creeping which followed ib was also observed during 10 minutes .
The results are shown in fig. 7 , where the curve shows the growth of magnetism during 10 minutes when the step had been preceded by a -minute inferval of constant force , and the shows the growth of magnetism when a sensibly equal step was made , which had been preceded by a 1-hour interval of coustant force .
The times are in each case reckoned from the at which the step was made , and the increment of magnetism is in each case reckoned from the value reached just before the step was made .
The immediate effect of each step ( balanced by ffie ) was lent to scale divisions of the nlagnetometer .
The creeping-up in 10 minutes was equal to no less than scale divisions in the case of curve , as against 320 in B. At place marked with an asterisk in curve A. it happened that the laboratory door was slammed , 1889 .
] On Time-lag in the netisation of Iron .
which shook the wire very perceptibly and caused a comparatively sudden increase of magnetism ( indicated by the dotted of the curve ) , after which the time-rate of became specially slow for 1 or 2 minutes : finally , however , the rate appeared to recovel from this disturbance .
The curves and of fig. 7 are the first parts of A and drawn to a ten-fold coarser scale of times .
In confirmation of the above , another experiment was in which the magnetic force was incl.eased by three successive small and very nearly equal steps .
The first step was made after 5 minutes of c , onstant force , the second after 1 hour of constant force , and the third again after 5 minutes of constant force .
Time-curves of the growth of magnetism were drawn in all three cases .
The first and third curves were not far from coincident ; but second curve lay very much below them , as lies below A. In the experiments to which figs. 4 , relate , the increment of magnetic force whose effects were measured , as preceded by increasing magnetic forces : other words , it was a step-up from a point on up curve of magnetisation .
I have also examined the effect of a small step-down from a point on the up curve\mdash ; that is to say , a small decrement of previously increasiug , as Prof. J. A. wing .
[ June 20 , might perhaps be anticipated from what we knew ) static hysteresis , that , the immediate effect of a step-down decidedly less than the immediate effect of a step-up .
When the compensating coil had been adjusted to balance the first effect of a step-up , it was found to give over-compensation for a step-down .
Another process has been examined , namely , the alternation of a htsp-up with step-down , many times repeated .
After the magnetising curl'ent had been raised to a certain value , it was periodically altered through a definite narrow range by alternately putting in and pulling out the short-circuit plug of a small resistance coil in the main circuit , or by making and breaking a feeble circuit in a second olenoid wound over the first .
It was only when this process had been repeated many times that the magnetic effects of the small changes of became approximabely cyclic ; the early cycles were associated with a progressive rise in the intensity of magnetism .
But when a neal.ly cyclic state was reached , the compensating coil could be adjusted to balance the immediate effects of or , and the same adjusf , ment of courss served to balance either .
in this way the gradient dSI/ d ( for the lmmediate effect of after many small \mdash ; steps ) has of course a lower value than the gradient which is found when is first aised to The latter , as we seen , is greater when the lnagnetisatlon is moderately strong than when there is little or none .
The former is nearly constant oughout a wide range of ; its value is approxmalely the same as at the initial part of the magnetisation curve\mdash ; namely 10\mdash ; until the region of saturation is approached , when it becomes distinctly less .
* The periodic chauges of magnetism which are brought about .
successive small increments and decremenlis of 25 exbibit a and creeping up and down precisely similar to that which been illustrated in .
That may to show in a general of the to the chang.e of ) , when at any place the curve a very small increment has } ) eell applied and removed often enough to establish a cyclic .
I have not made auy full tion of theVttl.iation which under these conditions the suffers the on which the snlall cycle if superposed is pushed up towards ration , nor of the proportion which the hubsequcnt ) to that of of which .
occurs immediately on the application or removal of The Cl.eeplng which follows each epeated a tion and removal of is much educed when the lron appl.oacbes saturation ; immediate cffect is reduced , and so may be judged by ions , it } ) cars on { constancy of stalic gradienl{ 1889 .
] On Time-lag in the AIagnetisation of ' Iron .
283 that the proportion of creeping to immediate effect is much the same -ith high as with low magnotisation .
One may refer , in this connexion , to the energy which is dissipated hysteresis , in a small cycle by alternately pplyiug and removing a very small force .
The action the in kind whether there is or is not additional nctisation .
energy dissipated in each cycle is , and vanishos the increnlent and decrement of go on pari passn the lncrement and declement of Consider now fig. 1 .
When the repeated cyclic changes of are indefinitely rapid and go on without pause , so not time to occur , a straight ( or sensibly ) line such as OA represents the elation of the change of magnetism to the ( vel.y small ) change of magnetising force , during both and decrement .
The rapidity of the action prevents auy loop frolD be formed , and there is consequently no sensible dissipation of energy through hysteresis .
This state of is perhnps ] ealised in the case of a vibrating telephone diaplJragm , , in to ential mnetisation , by an iron conducting in a teleptlonc circuit .
, let the cycle be perforlned indcfinitely slowly .
In that case the netism , at ery stage of the cycle , creeps up or down to steady value .
A scnsibly line , stlch as resents telation of to both increment decrement ; filled there is tion of ellcroy .
wibh any frequency of altcrntttion betwcen these -xtremes of infinitely fast and infinitely slow , a loop will be formed , since .
will take effect most comsidcrably and lear the ends of ( the time-rate of change of being ) , be dissipation of .
When the limits and mode of val.iation of specified , must be some frequenc hich will mako the sipated per cycle a maximum .
The phenomena described in the paper ve been } ) specimens of annealed vire , of course with diffcrcnc.es .
As the amount of netic c mtlch depends on ling of the specimen .
Anotl ) piece of from the ) bundlc as the piece made , { at anothc ] .
time , almost tctly t } ceptibility to netism as the , so ) ) cffect } ; but in it the ) decidcdly lcs rtion of about 4 to 5 ) .
Whcn iron }mcchttnical s the of vnnish completely .
A specimcn from the undlc .
It put in and plllled until it took srt of 1 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ June 20 , in a length of 40 cm .
or so .
It was then examined magnetically as before , and scarcely a trace of creeping could bs observed when a feeble magnetising force was applied .
When the compensating coil was properly adjusted the making or breaking of the magnetising current caused no more than a slight momentary quiver of the magnetometer eedle , followed by no measurable drifting , although the whole magnetic effect ( compensated by the coil ) was equivalent to a hundred or more scale divisions .
When a netising force of as much as c.g.s. unit was suddenly applied , the amount of creeping , if there was any , was ccrtainly less than 1 per cent. of the immediate effect .
With of higher than this it became possible to detect creep with certainty .
The following notes relate to this wire : Magnetising force suddenly applied .
Immediate value ( c.g.s. ) of ( c.g.s. ) .
, crept in 1 .
to , 26.4 .
These forces were in each case applied to this wire in a neutral state .
Another trial of the same , with feebler forces , gave as the value of for the immediate of a very small force , applied when the iron was tised , The same quantity in the annealed specimen was , as has been said , abo .
In the relation of ( immediate ) to as stated above , is represented by the curve OR ; the ping up at the last point is In speaking of soft iron it has been shown that the effects of creeping are most marked when a small addition is made to a viotlsly increasing force .
In instances quoted above , the creeping .
up in 1 .
has under those conditions been many times gl'eater than the immediate effect of By way of putting the specimen of hardened iron to the same test , I have applied a netic force of and raised it by a small step to .
The immediate effect of this step ( which was balanced by the compensating coil ) was equivalent to twenty-two scale divisions of the netometer , and this was followed during 1 minute by a creep- ing equa ] to six scale divisions .
In itself this creeping is considerable , but compared with the corresponding in sofb iron it is extremely small .
Picces of steel ( containing a good deal of cal.bon ) have also been examined , the result that whether the steel be annealed or in its temper the phenomenon of creeping is even less visible than in hardened iron .
With annealed stee ] , a force which produced an immediate ( compensated ) netic effect equal to 124 scale divisions caused barely a single scale division of .
With a stronger current , giving an immediate netism of 340 , the sub1889 .
] On -tag in the of Iron .
sequent creeping was 3 .
In steel and in hald the creeping seemed to be completed in a few ssconds after the institution of the magnetising current .
The steel specimen , like the iron , had a diameter of rather more than 4 mm. Its susceptibility ( annealed ) was considerably less than that of the iron in the hard state .
It is necessary to observe that the protracted and extensive creepin , or netic " " nachwirkung\ldquo ; in soft iron which these experiments illustrate cannot be ascribed to the subsidence of the circumferential currents which are by the imposition of longitudinal magnebic force .
The is equally conspicuous whether the magnebic force is suddenly or graduaily imposed .
Lord Rayleigh has shown that circumferential currents started and left to themselves will subside to of their magnitude in the time where is the radius of the cylinder , its rmeabili , and its specific resistance .
* In the present illstance , the case of the annealed iron rod , , and is less than of a second .
The subsidence would be practically complete in a small fraction of a second : but the Cl'eeping persists during many seconds and evetl minutes with no excessive of rate .
Again , soft iron with hard iron , in is less and is greater , the values of will differ , but not by any means so much as to correspond the very wide difference in magnetic lag .
In of this it is puzzling to find that the diametel .
of the rod experimented upon has a most important influence on the etic 1 In testing various samples of soft iron vire , most of were of less diameter than the piece used in the above experiments , I noticed that the phenomena of were less marked in smaller rods .
I then tried a bundle of nine very soft annc iron wires , which were bound together with fine coppel wire , and formed a core of about the same and diametel as that of the solid rod formerly used .
With this there was some creeping , but very little in comparison with what was observed in the solid rod , as the notes show : \mdash ; Bundle of nine soft Wires .
netometer defllions .
Magnetic force Inlmcdiate ( bnlanced equcnt sudclenly applied by ) ) ] ) in .
coil ) .
1 !
Brit. , p. 286 Messrs. J. T. Bottomley and A. Tanakadate .
[ June 20 , Finally , another bundle was built up , consisting of a much larger number of fine annealed iron wires .
With this the creeping was almost insensible .
It may be that the comparative absence of netic Ceeping , or " " nachwirkung in these last experiments is to be ascribed to the quickness with which the process of creeping completes itself in a finely divided mass of iron : in other words , that the process is practically complete in a time much shorter than the period of the meter needle .
marked difference in effect between a solid core ( a single thick wire ) of soft iron and a laminaled core ( a bundle of fine wires ) of the same material , suggests that in the former much than in the latter the process of creeping is retarded by the eddy rents which are set up by those molecular movements in which the process itself consists .
[ July 11th.\mdash ; In seeking an explanation of the difference in behaviour it may be worth while to bear in mind that there is probably a considerable difference in molecular structure between a solid core and a laminated core of iron .
If we accept the view that the magnetically neutral state is due to the molecular .
forming closed rings , these l.ings will for the most part be closed within the limits of the separate constituent pieces of the laminated core , whereas in the solid core they may be much larger , their dimensions being limited only by those of the core itself .
] I have received very valuable help in these experiments from two students , Mr. David Low and Mr. William Frew , who have prosecuted a troublesome research with much patience and zeal . .
" " Note on the Position of Platiuoid By J. T. BOTTOliLEY , , and A. kDATE , Rigakusi .
Received June 1 1889 .
In carrying out a series of experiments on of ) by solid bodies , ation to which one of the present writers has for some time past devoted considel.able attention , it became necessary , for a lrpose which need not be detailed , to selcct a thermo-electric pair of metals , of which one metal is essentially , as it passes glass .
ious pairs were considel'ed , and some ials w made ; and it finally determlnel to mako tlso of platinum and platinoid .
The latter metal is an alloy electrical and mecLanical prpties were investigated some year by one of ] present and that timo it J. T. Bottomley , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc

