1895 .
] On the new Gas obtained from Argon-tube .
Yellow ... ... .
Absent .
Green Green-blue . . . .
Blue ... ... ... . .
Blue-violet. . . .
Yiolet 7 lines .
5 lines .
Absent .
Absent .
Absent .
f 3 lines , strong .
[ 2 , fairly strong , f Absent .
Absent .
I Yiolet pair .
Single line .
Triplet .
I Triplet .
^ Pair .
Helium-tube .
Brilliant .
7 lines .
5 lines .
Faint .
Brilliant .
8 lines .
W = 587*49 .
( the helium line , D3 ) Equal in intensity .
In helium only .
99 99 99 99 Barely visible , if indeed present at all .
2 , fairly strong .
Equal in intensity .
Bright line .
4 bright lines .
Violet pair .
Single line .
Triplet .
Triplet .
Pair .
^ In helium only .
Equal in intensity .
99 99 99 99 99 99 It is to be noticed that argon is present in the helium-tube , and by the use of two coils the spectra could be made of equal intensity .
But there are sixteen easily visible lines present in the helium-tube only , of which one is the magnificent yellow , and there are two red lines strong in argon and three violet lines strong in , but barely visible and doubtful in the helium-tube .
This would imply that atmospheric argon contains a gas absent from the argon in the helium-tube .
It may be that this gas is the cause of the high density of argon , which would place its atomic weight higher than that of potassium .
It is idle to speculate on the properties of helium at such an early stage in the investigation ; but I am now preparing fairly large quantities of the mixture , and hope to be able before long to give data respecting the density of the mixture , and to attempt the separation of argon from helium .
( Note added June 14.\#151 ; It is now practically certain that the presence of so many of the argon lines in the helium spectrum must have been due to the accidental introduction of air .
But there still are coincidences , chiefly in the red lines , which would justify the supposition that there is some constituent common to the two gases .
) II .
" On the new Gas obtained from Uraninite .
Preliminary Note .
" By J. Norman Lockyek , C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1895 .
On the 28th of March , Professor Ramsay was so good as to send me a tube containing a new gas obtained by him from uraninite ( cleveite ) , showing a line in the yellow which was stated to be of the 68 Prof. J , Norman Lockyer .
[ Apr. 25 , same -wave-length as D3 , which I discovered in 1868 .
This line Dr. Frankland and myself shortly afterwards suggested might be a line of hydrogen , not visible under laboratory conditions ; but solar work subsequently showed that this view was untenable , although the gas which produced it was certainly associated with hydrogen .
Subsequently , other chromospheric lines were found to vary with the yellow line , and the hypothetical gas which gave rise to them was provisionally named ''helium , " to differentiate it from hydrogen .
It was therefore of great interest to me to learn whether the new gas was veritably that which was responsible for the solar phenomena in question , and I am anxious to express my best thanks to Professor Ramsay for sending the tube to enable me to form an opinion on this matter .
Unfortunately , it had been used before I received it , and the glass was so blackened that , the light was invisible in a spectroscope of sufficient dispersion to decide the question .
On March 29th therefore , as Professor Ramsay was absent from England , in order not to lose time , I determined to see whether the gas which had been obtained by chemical processes would not come over by heating in vacuo , after the manner described by me to the Society in 1879 , * and Mr. L. Fletcher was kind enough to give me some particles of uraninite ( broggerite ) to enable me to make the experiment .
This I did on March 30th , and it succeeded ; the gas giving the yellow line came over , associated with hydrogen , in good quantity .
I have since obtained photographs of the spectrum of the gas , both in vacuum tubes while the Sprengel pump has been going , and at atmospheric pressure over mercury .
To-day I limit myself to exhibiting two of these photographs .
One of the photographs exhibits a series of spectra taken during the action of the pump .
The two lower spectra indicate the introduction of air by a leak after the capillary had cracked near one of the platinums , giving us on the same plate the banded and line spectrum of air .
These prove that there was no air present in the tube when the fourth spectrum was taken .
This photograph has not yet been finally reduced , but a preliminary examination has indicated that most of the lines are due to the structure spectrum of hydrogen , but not all of them .
Among the lines which cannot be referred to this origin are two respectively near \4471 and X 4302 , which have been observed in the chromosphere , 4471 being as important as D3 itself , from the theoretical point of view , to students of Solar Physics. .
Whilst spectrum .
No 4 was being photographed with the capillary tube end-on-wise , eye observations were made in another spectroscope directed sideways at it .
I give from the Laboratory Note Book the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 29 , p. 266 .
1895 .
] On the new Gas obtained from 69 observations I made while photograph No. 4 was being taken , to show that the yellow line was visible during the whole exposure .
Thursday , April 4 1895 .
Plate F. Exposure 4 .
f ; w o S2h X \lt ; o *05 O -4-J d d H 4*42 .
Exposure started .
4-43 .
Tellow line brightening up considerably .
4*44 .
Suddenly as bright as hydrogen .
4.45 .
Yellow line double .
4'46 .
Comparison with D gives yellow line in position of D3 .
4.47 .
Pump much less full ; 7 c.c. of gas collected .
Yellow line much brighter .
4.48 .
Air-break introduced .
Line still visible , but very faint .
Hydrogen lines getting brighter and some double lines appearing in green .
4.48'5 .
Air-break and jar removed .
Yellow line the only one seen , being as bright as C. Line in green the only other line visible .
4.50 .
Replaced jar .
Yellow brightening and the other lines more refrangible , brightening with it .
4.51 .
Very bright .
Steeple nearly full of gas .
^.4.52 .
End of exposure .
The lines which appear both in the photographs of the capillary tube and of the gas collected over mercury , are as follows .
The lines indicated by an asterisk are near lines recorded in the chromosphere by Young or myself , or photographed during the eclipse of 1893 .
Micrometer W ave-lengtli reading .
( Rowland ) .
3-2495 4581* .2917 4523* .2981 4513* .3234 4479 .3316 4469-51* .4146 4368 .5740 4196* .5884 4181 .5933 4177* .6139 4156* .6176 4152-5* .6262 4144* .6290 4141 With regard to the observations in the visual spectrum , I have not found the uraninite gas , as obtained and observed by my method , to 70 Dr. T. R. Fraser .
Acokanthera Schimperi : [ Apr. 25 , contain the argon lines as given by Mr. Crookes ; nor , with the exception of the yellow line , do I get the special lines noted by him in the gas .
( Four of these out of six seem possibly to he due to nitrogen .
) But I do get lines nearly coinciding with chromospheric lines discovered by me in 1868 .
On November the 6th of that year , I suspected a line less refrangible than C , and so near it that when both were showing brilliantly the pair appeared double , like D in a spectroscope of moderate dispersive power.* Later , I discovered another line at 6678'3 ( Rowland ) , which was observed to vary with D3 .
There is a line in this position , with the dispersion employed , in the spectrum of the new gas .
This line has also been seen by Thalen , as stated by Professor Cleve in a communication to the Paris Academy ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' April 16th , p. 835 ) , but the other lines given by him ( with the possible exception of the one at 5016 ) have not been recorded by me .
Although I have , at present , been unable to make final comparisons with the chromospheric lines , the evidence so far obtained certainly lends great weight to the conclusion that the new gas is one effective in producing some of them , and it is suggested by the photographs that the structure lines of hydrogen may also be responsible for some of them .
I may state , under reserve , that I have already obtained evidence that the method I have indicated may ultimately provide us with other new gases , the lines of which are also associated with those of the chromosphere .
Messrs. Fowler , Baxandall , Shackleton , and Butler have assisted me in the various stages of the inquiry .
III .
" A cokanthera Schimperi : its Natural History , Chemistry , and Pharmacology .
" By Thomas R. Fraser , M.D. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Edinburgh ; and Joseph Tillie , M.D. , F.R.S.E. , Lecturer on Experimental .Pharmacology in the University of Edinburgh .
Received March 28 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) Several years ago an opportunity was given to one of us to examine poisoned arrows and the poison used in smearing them , of the Wa Nyika tribe of Bast Africa .
While the pharmacological action of this poison was found to have a close resemblance to that * * Phil. Trans. , ' 1869 , p. 428 .

