VII .
' On Supersaturated Saline Solutions."-Part II .
By CHARLES TOMLINSON , F.R.S. Received May 17 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to develop more fully the principles attempted to be established in Part I.* , not only by clearer definitions of terms , but also by new facts and conclusions .
The paper is divided into two sections ; in the first of which are stated the conditions under which nuclei act in separating salt or gas or vapour from their supersaturated solutions , while in the second section is shown the action of low temperatures on supersaturated saline solutions .
The first section opens with definitions of the terms used .
A nucleus is a body that has a stronger attraction for the gas or vapour or salt of a solution than for the liquid that holds it in solution .
A body is chemically clean the surface of which is entirely free from any substance foreign to its own composition .
Oils and other liquids are chemically clean if chemically pure , and contain no substance , mixed or dissolved , that is foreign to their composition .
But with respect to the nuclear action of oils &amp;c. , the behaviour is different when such bodies exist in the mass , such as a lens or globule , as compared with the same bodies in the form of films .
Catharization is the act of clearing the surface of bodies from all alien matter , and the substance is said to be catharized when its surface is so cleared .
As everything exposed to the air or to the touch takes more or less a deposit or film of foreign matter , substances are classed as catharized or uncatharized according as they have or have not been so freed from foreign matter .
Referring to the definition of a nucleus , substances are divided into nuclear or non-nuclear .
The nuclear are those that may , per se , become nuclei .
The nonnuclear are those that have not that quality .
The nuclear substances would seem to be comparatively few , the larger number of natural substances ranking under the other division .
Under nuclear substances are those vapours and oily and other liquids that form thin films on the surfaces of liquids and solids ; and generally all substances in the form of films , and only in that form .
Thus a stick of tallow , chemically clean , will not act , but a film of it will act powerfully ; and again , a globule of castor-oil will not act , if chemically clean ; but in the form of a film , whether chemically clean or not , it will act powerfully .
If a drop of a liquid be placed on the surface of another liquid it will do one of three things ( apart from chemical action ) , -(1 ) it will diffuse through the liquid , and in general , under such circumstances , not act as a nucleus ; or ( 2 ) it will spread out into a film , or ( 3 ) remain in a lenticular shape .
It becomes a film or a lens according to the general proposition , that if on the surface of the liquid A , whose surface-tension is a , we deposit a drop of the liquid B , whose surface-tension , wb , is less than a , the drop will spread into a film ; but if , on the contrary , b be greater than a , or only a little less , the drop will remain in the form of a lens .
Hence if B spread on A , A will not spread on the surface of B. This general proposition may not always apply in the case of supersaturated saline solutions , on account of the superficial viscosity , or the greater or less difficulty of the superficial molecules to be displaced .
A glass rod drawn through the hand becomes covered with a thin film , or the same rod by exposure to the air contracts a film by the condensation of floating vapours , dust , &amp;c. , and in either case is brought into the nuclear condition .
A second class of nuclear bodies are permanently porous substances , such as charcoal , coke , pumice , &amp;c. The action of these is chiefly confined to vaporous solutions , and if catharized having no power of separating salts from their supersaturated solutions .
Under the non-nuclear , forming by far the larger class of substances , are glass , the metals , &amp;c. , while their surfaces are chemically clean .
Among the non-nuclear substances will be found air ; for its ascribed nuclear character is due , not to itself , but to the nuclear particles of which it is the vehicle .
Thus , as stated in Part I. , if air be filtered through cotton-wool it loses its apparent nuclear character ; so also if heated .
When a catharized body is placed in a supersaturated solution , such solution , as explained in Part I. , adheres to it as a whole ; but if such body be non-catharized , the gas or vapour or salt of the solution adheres to it more strongly than the liquid portion , and hence there is a separation .
In the present paper it is shown that an active or non-catharized surface is one contaminated with a film of foreign matter , which filmy condition is necessary to that close adhesion which brings about the nuclear action ; for it can be shown that an oil , for example , is non-nuclear in the form of a lens or globule , but powerfully nuclear in the form of a film .
Some liquids ( absolute alcohol for example ) form films , and act as nuclei by separating water instead of salt from supersaturated solutions .
Other liquids ( glycerin for example ) diffuse through the solutions without acting as nuclei .
Fatty oils may slowly saponify , or oil of bitter almonds form benzoic acid in contact with supersaturated solutions of Glauber 's salt without acting as nuclei .
The solutions ( say of Glauber 's salt ) are prepared with 1 , 2 , or 3 parts of the salt to 1 part of water ; they are boiled , filtered into clean flasks , and covered with watch-glasses .
When cold , the watch-glass being lifted off , a drop of oil is deposited on the surface of the supersatu534 [ June 16 , rated solution .
In an experiment described , a drop of pale seal-oil formed a well-shaped film , with a display of iridescent rings , and immediately from the lower surface of the film there fell large flat prisms with dihedral summits of the 10-atom sodic sulphate .
The prisms were an inch or an inch and a half in length , and three-eighths of an inch across .
The crystallization proceeded from every part of the lower surface of the film , and as one set of crystals fell off , another set was formed , until the whole solution became a mass of fine crystals in a small quantity of liquid , an effect quite different from the usual crystallization which takes place when a supersaturated solution of Glauber 's salt is subjected to the action of a nucleus at one or two points in its surface , as when motes of dust enter from the air , or the surface is touched with a nuclear point .
In such case small crystalline needles diverge from the point and proceed rapidly in well-packed lines to the bottom , the whole being too crowded and too rapid to allow of the formation of regular crystals .
Similar experiments were made on solutions of Glauber 's salt of different strengths , with drops of ether , absolute alcohol , naphtha , benzole , the oils of turpentine , cajuput , and other volatile oils , sperm , herring , olive , linseed , castor , and other fixed oils of animal and vegetable origin , with this general result , that whenever the liquid drop spread out into a film , it acted as a powerful nucleus ; but when the oil formed a lens there was no separation of salt , even when the flasks were shaken so as to break up the lens into small globules .
If , however , a sudden jerk were given to the flask so as to flatten some of the globules against its sides into films , the whole solution instantly became solid .
A similar effect was produced by introducing a clean inactive solid for the purpose of flattening a portion of oil against the side of the flask .
Stearine from sheep 's tallow that had been exposed to the air produced immediate crystallization , but by boiling the solution and covering the flasks , the stearine , now catharized , had lost its nuclear character on the cold solution .
Similar observations were made with the fixed oils that form lenses or globules in the solution .
So also volatile oils containing products of oxidation , dust , &amp;c. are nuclear , but when catharized by being redistilled they are inactive in the globular state , active in the form of films .
Supersaturated solutions of potash alum , ammonia alum , sodic acetate , and magnesia sulphate were also operated on with results similar to those obtained with solutions of Glauber 's salt .
When a liquid forms a film on the surface of a supersaturated solution , the surface-tension of the solution is so far diminished as to bring the film into contact with the solution , when that differential kind of action takes place whereby the salt of the solution adhering more strongly to the film than the water of the solution , the action of separation and crystallization , thus once begun , is propagated throughout .
A similar action takes place with solid bodies that have contracted filmy nuclei by being touched or drawn through the hand , or merely exposed to the air ; 1870 .
] 535 hey are active or nuclear by virtue of the films of matter which more or less cover them .
On the other hand , when a drop of oil ( or many drops ) is placed on the surface of a supersaturated saline solution , and it assumes the lenticular form , or even flattens into a disk , such lens or disk is separated from actual contact with the solution by surface-tension .
That the adhesion is very different from that of a film may be shown by pouring a quantity of recently distilled turpentine , for example , on the surface of chemically clean water , and scraping upon it some fragments of camphor ; these will be immediately covered with a solution of camphor in the oil , which solution will form iridescent films , and sail about with the camphor , vigorously displacing the turpentine , and cutting it up into smaller disks and lenses .
So in the case of supersaturated saline solutions , the oil-lens is not sufficiently in contact with the surface of the solution to allow of the exertion of that differential kind of action whereby salt is separated .
Even when , by shaking , the oil is broken up into globules , and these are submerged , they are still so far separated from the solution by surface-tension as to prevent actual contact .
In the second section it is shown that solutions of certain salts which remain liquid and supersaturated at and about the freezing-point of water , by a further reduction in temperature , to from 0 ?
Fahr. to --10 ?
and in the absence of a nucleus , rather solidify than crystallize , but on being restored to 32 ?
recover their liquid state without any separation of salt .
A solution of ferrous sulphate , for example , at 0 ?
Fahr. formed tetrahedral crystals at the surface , which spread downwards until the contents of the tube became solid .
In snow-water at 32 ?
the frozen mass shrank from the sides of the tube , formed into a smooth rounded mass , and gradually melted , leaving the solution clear and bright without any deposit .
On removing the cotton-wool from the mouth of the tube , small but wellshaped rhomboidal crystals soon filled the solution .
A similar experiment was tried with the double salt formed by mixing in atomic proportions solutions of the zincic and magnesic sulphates .
A supersaturated solution of this salt at about -8 ?
Fahr. became solid , and it melted quickly at 32 ? .
Such a solution may be solidified and melted a number of times , provided it be protected from the action of nuclei ; but if the cotton-wool be removed from the tube , even when the contents are solid , and be immediately reinserted , there will be a separation of the salt during the melting , in consequence of the entrance of nuclear particles from the air .
Solutions of such a strength as to be only saturated at ordinary temperatures , and therefore not sensitive , to the action of nuclei , become very much so by reduction of temperature below 32 ?
Fahr. Salts that contain a large amount of water of crystallization , such as the zincic and magnesic sulphates , require only a small portion of added water in order to form supersaturated solutions , and they become more sensitive to the action of nuclei as the temperature falls , or , in other words , as they become more highly supersaturated .
Thus a very strong solution of calcic chloride , which is not sensitive to nuclei at 40 ?
or 45 ?
, becomes very much so at 24 ?
to 34 ? .
The sodio-zincic sulphate contains only 4 proportionals of water of crystallization , and hence its supersaturated solutions are not stable at low temperatures .
When freshly made , they may be reduced to 10 ?
Fahr. withouts eparation of the salt ; but by repose , even in clean tubes and in the absence of nuclei , long crystals of the separated salts occupy the length of the tube , but they are invisible on account of having the same refractive index as that of the solution in which they are immersed .
In the course of time , probably from the escape of vapour of water through the porous plug , they become visible .
A solution of the ammonia zincic sulphate at 4 ?
Fahr. formed beautiful large feathery crystals of an opaque white , which gradually filled the tube .
They melted rapidly at 32 ? .
A supersaturated solution of nickel sulphate resisted a temperature of 6 ?
Fahr. Mixed with an equivalent weight of cupric sulphate , the two salts separate if the solution be exposed to the air , but in closed tubes the solution at 0 ?
Fahr. forms beautiful feathery crystals , which melt rapidly at 32 ?
, without any separation of salt .
Similar phenomena are produced by a supersaturated solution of zinc sulphate and potash alum in equivalent proportions exposed to a temperature of 4 ?
Fahr. A similar solution of the cupric and magnesic sulphates at --4 ?
also became solid , and melted rapidly at 32 ? .
Experiments were also made with the sodic and magnesic sulphates , cadmic , and some other sulphates .
The addition of potassic sulphate to other sulphates , in atomic proportions , forms double salts , which , so far as they were examined , do not form supersaturated solutions .
The effect of low temperatures was in some cases to throw down a portion of the salts in the anhydrous form , upon which were formed by repose crystals of a lower degree of hydration than the normal salt .
Some cases of this kind are described in the paper .

