Observations on the Heights of Places in the Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain , and upon the Latitude of Arbury Hill .
By B. Bevan , Esq. Communicated by Sir H. Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read May 23 .
1822 .
LPhil .
Trans. 1823 , p. 73 .
] The result of the trigonometrical survey , relative to the different sections of the meridian in this country , having disappointed public expectation , Mr. Bevan lately examined with some care the calculations affected by the observations made at Arbury Hill , with the hope of reconciling the anomaly in that part of the meridian .
The height of this station he determined by levelling to the Grand Junction Canal , from which , and the known difference of levels of the canals communicating with this , he obtained the relative height of this station , compared with the most important objects in Northampton , Buckingham , and Bedford .
Finding the country to the north of Arbury station suddenly fall about 400 feet , and continue thus depressed for nine or ten miles , Mr. Bevan observes that such a defect of matter would probably produce a deflection of the plumbline to the southward ; and accordingly , on calculating the latitude of Arbury station from that of Blenheim observatory , independent of any astronomical observations made at Arbury , he found it 5 " less than shown by the zenith sector , giving countenance to the probability of local attraction by the high land to the south of the station .
The author thinks that the observations at Dunnose were affected by the high land to the north of that station giving a latitude less than it should be by 711 or 8 " , and that Greenwich observatory is not altogether clear of local attraction from the higher land to the south , and defect upon the northern side .
Clifton station also , he remarks , may be 2 " or 3f " in error , from the same cause .
With such corrections as the face of the country may warrant , not exceeding in the whole 200 miles above 10 " , the author thinks it probable that the section of the meridian measured in Britain may agree with the different sections measured in other parts of the world .
Mr. Bevan lastly adverts to the probable errors in the height of the stations in the survey ; and assuming the highest points of the Grand Junction Canal to be 408 ' feet above the level of the sea at lowwater spring tides , he considers the heights of Wendover , Kensworth , Bowbrick Hill , and Arbury Hill stations , to be about 72 feet in excess , as laid down in the survey .

