]\gt ; On Crystals in Circutarly Polarized Light .
333 use of , to serve as the origin and insertion of the supplemental muscle .
The Tablejust given shows that in the employment of these supplemental muscles they are always so arranged as to work to the maximum advantage .
Thus the of skew muscles , which , on a hasty examination , would be pronounced to be imperfections , furnishes another proofof my postuIate .
PosTULATE.\mdash ; The musctes , bones , of animals are so related geometrically to each other as toproduce in every case the maximum amount of work .
IV .
" " On the Rings produced by Crystals when submitted to cularly Polarized Light .
By WILLIAM rISWOODE , .
Received Apri124 , 1872 .
The general optical angements here used are known .
Particular cases of the phenomena resulting from have been described by Fresnel and by Airy ; and more have doubtless been observed by others .
The main part of the consists , so far as poiarization is of the ordinary polarizer , analyzer , and crystal plate to be examined , C. To this are added two quarter-undulation plates of mica , , one of which , , is placed below and the other , , above the cryst C. Let be the angles between the incipal sections of , taken two and two together in the order written , all the considered to bc of the same sign when measured in the same directiou\mdash ; s , positive with that of a clock-hand .
Then , if be the retardation produced in any ray , whose wave-length is , by the crystal , the intensity of the dinary image at any point is given d'Optique Physique , ' tome ii .
by the formula Of this four pttrticular nces have been studied , .
:\mdash ; , whence ; ( I. ) , whence ; ( II .
) whence I ; .
, whencc I hue bn taken .
Drom which work the groater of the disonssion of the cases I. , Cases I. and II .
represent Fresnel 's experiments , cases III .
and In all four the rotation depends upon , that is , upon the and consequently if the analyzer be turned round , we shall have a sir sion of colours which recur after every .
Thus far the effects will \amp ; semble those produced by quartz , excepting that the tints will exactly the same ; because in these cases the rotation of the plane of larization is oximately proporbional to , while in that of quartz proportional to .
It may be noticed that if I. , II .
, .
represent handed , III .
will represent a left-handed quartz .
The result in case I. , being independent of and , shows that } system of plates be turned round bodily in its own plane will be no change in the phenomena produced .
The resuIt in case II .
shows that if the system of plates be turned in its own plane , we have a sequence of the reverse of those duced when the analyzer is turned round , and returning at every of every The results in III .
and Iy .
, being independent of the values of and , but depending only upon the sum , show the system , A remain fixed , and the crystal be turned in 11 own plane , the phenomena will undergo no change .
If the experiments be made with convergent lighC , two general are manifest : first , that rings are formed as with plane-polarized better defined , because in the absence ofany constant term in the value ofll the minima values are absolutely zero ; and secondly , that no dalk will exist .
systemQ , CIfwenow , consider tings produced ergent light Ahich trossed , Crystals in Circularly Polarized Light .
885 is at to the principal section of , we have the conditions ; whence Introducing these i1lto the general expression for the intensity , we obtain This shows that if the lyzer be placed parallel to the polarizer and then turned round in a positive direction uutil will retain its sign , while wili take a negative sign .
Also if exchange the crystal supposed positive for a negative one , will retain its sign while will change it .
It follows , therefore , that if in examining uniaxal crystals with this arrangement the analyzer be turned in one direction , the distortion of the rings from a circular to an oval form will take place in a vertical line for positive crystals and in an horizontal for negative ; while if the analyzer be turned iu the opposite sense , the distortion of the will likewise be reversed .
This process , therefore , will give a method of distinpositive from negative crystaIs .
That the same law holds good for binxal cryst , als is clear from the formulae which tpply equally to both classes ; but it may be experimentally veritied by ) plying the method to the series of micn plates crossed in different groups so as to show the transition from the biaxal to the uniaxftl condition .
In the case of biaxal crystals , however , the readiest method of making the experiment is to observe the rings the centre of the field where the lemniscate loops meet , and to notice whether , on turning the analyzer in given direction , the rings appear to stream in towards one another from the axes , or to be dralvn out towards the axes , If for a given arrangement of the plates the rings of a negative uniaxal crystal are drawn out horizontally when the analyzer is turned to the right , for the same arrangement and motion the rings of a negative biaxftl crystal will appear to flow together .
The Society djourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 16 .

