The reading of Mr. Lloyd 's Paper was resumed and concluded .
The author of this paper received directions from the Lords Com ?
missioners of the Admiralty , in February 1830 , at the suggestion of the Royal Society , to survey the river Thames , with a view of ascertaining the difference of level between certain parts of it and the mean level of the sea near Sheerness .
Having had experience , while employed in a survey of the Isthmus of Darien , of the great imperfections in thelevelling instruments hitherto used , hebestowed great pains in improving the construction of those employed in the present survey ; endeavouring to combine the properties of great steadiness and accuracy of motions in azimuth , with increased delicacy in the level , and permanence in the general position of the whole apparatus ; and also to increase the power of the telescope .
The author then enters into a full description of the improved instruments which he employed , accompanied by drawings .
As soon as he was furnished with the proper means of observing , he commenced his operations at Sheerness in the month of March .
The principal object of his commission being to ascertain the heights of different places above the level of the sea , it became necessary , in the first place , to estimate the heights of the tide ; and accordingly , having obtained permission from the Admiralty to erect a tide gauge at the Dock Yard at Sheerness , he selected a corner of the boat basin as the most eligible spot for this purpose : having accomplished this object , he next directed his attention to the establishment of a standard mark , from whence , as from a zero point , the levellings might be reckoned .
Considerable difficulty was met with in fixing upon a spot in every respect adapted to this object ; for all the buildings in the immediate vicinity of the tide gauge appeared to be deficient in the security of their foundation .
Heat length se ?
lected a large block of granite in the southern pier of the entrance to the boat basin .
He then caused a block of gun metal , east for the purpose , two inches and a half square and eight inches long , to be sunk in the centre of the granite , about an inch below the surface , thereby ailowing a brass box and cover to be placed over the standard to protect it from injury .
In order that there might he a sufficient number of checks to the permanence of this standard mark , the author caused others to be placed in the yard ; namely , one near the southern extremity on the wall of the Dock Yard , one at the eastern side of the great basin , and one in a large block of stone resting on the brick-work of the navy wall .
As a further means of future verification of this standard level , he had a very large block of granite placed on a slight eminence , two miles and a half to the south ward of the Dock Yard , on which there formerly stood the old castle of Queenborough .
One of the brass standards being let into the granite , the place was covered over , but marked by a small mound of earth near it , so that it may easily be referred to whenever it may be thought requisite .
From a series of observations made at Sheerness in the years 1827 , 1828 , and 1829 , it is found that the mean high-water spring tides was 26 355 feet , iow-water spring tides 8*74 ; mean 17649 .
The mean high-water neap tides 22 656 , low-water 11 *336 j mean 16993 .
The mean of the whole period being 17*27 .
The author then states the results of the successive levellings he took from Sheerness along the course of the river to London Bridge .
On his arrival at Greenwich Hospital , he commenced a set of branch levels from thence to the Royal Observatory , for the purpose of determining its height above the level of the sea , ?
an operation which was rendered tedious by the abruptness of the ascent .
Having completed these observations , it occurred to the Astronomer Royal that the instruments employed in the survey might be used as a means of verifying the correctness of the horizontal point of the mural circles .
The coincidence of the horizontal wires of the two instruments was found to be so nearly perfect , as to agree within a few hundredths of a second .
From Greenwich the levelling was continued on the opposite side of the river to different places where tide-registers had been kept .
By the kindness of Mr. Lubbock , the author was furnished with the results of twenty-six years'observations on the tides at the London Docks j from which it appears , that the height of mean high-water mark there , above that at Sheerness , is 2*24 feet and the height of spring tide high-water mark 2*03 , and of neap tides 2*35 .
The Trinity mark on the western side of Old London Bridge is 2*16 feet below the north standard mark at Sheerness , and 19 foot above the mean spring tide high-water mark at Sheerness .
The author concludes by giving a long catalogue of standard marks and other points of reference between Sheerness and London Bridge , the north standard at Sheerness being taken as the zero point .
In the course of his observations he found reason to believe that the tremulous appearance of the air which has been termed mirage , is caused , not so much by evaporation as by the direct effect of the solar rays : for he remarked , that when there was a succession of clouds passing over the sun , the tremor was very great at those times when the sun shone ; but the moment the sun was obscured over the whole space between the instrument and the object viewed , theair was perfectly tranquil .

