]\gt ; Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
XXVIII .
Tfoe Influence of Acids on the Rotatory Power of ugar , of Glucose and of Fructose .
By F. P. WORLEY .
( Conlmunicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received April 15 , \mdash ; Read May 1 , 1913 .
) It is shown in Part XXII of this series of studies that when cane is rationshydrolysed , inthepresenceofsolutionsofsulphuricacidofdifferentcon-theratioofthefinalvalueoftherotationoftheinvertsugarto the initial value due to the cane sugar becomes very considerably greater as the concentration of the acid is increased .
The effect was attributed to : an increase in the optical rotatory power of the sugars caused by the acid ; from the fact that the ratio of acid to sugar was the same in most of the experiments , it was argued that the determining factor was the ratio of acid to water , the alteration in the rotatory power being due mainly to changes in the water .
Judging from the results of preliminary experiments and the work of previous investigators , it was probable that the fructose was the sugar chiefly affected but that the observed change in the above ratio could not be attributed to this cause alone .
In the course of experiments recently carried out to determine the hydrolytic activity of benzenesulphonic acid at different degrees of dilution , data have been accumulated which confirm the results arrived at when sulphuric acid was used as the hydrolyst .
Experiments have also been [ carried out to determine the effect of the acid on the rotatoly power of cane sugar , glucose and fructose .
It will be seen on reference to the following table that as the concentration of the acid is increased from one molecular proportion in two hundred of ( Observations vrere made in the light of the meroury green line .
) 80 I20 160 Z00 Mols .
to 1 of acid .
Curve A. ) DIAGRAM I. In the experiments carried out to find the effect of acid on the rotatory power of cane sugar , glucose and fructose , the molecular proportions used were very approximately of sugar and 40 of hydrone in the presence and absence of 1 of benzenesulphonic acid .
cane sugar used was carefully purified coffee sugar , specially supplied by Messrs. Tate and Sons .
Kahlbaum 's first quality glucose and ' ' crystallised\ldquo ; fructose were used .
The water of crystallisation of the glucose was removed by desiccation in vacuo over concsntrated sulphuric acid at 10 C. No special precautions were taken to purify the glucose and fructose , as the object of the experiments was to find the change in rotatory power caused ever , vident there wmpurity present.hief eresence ojudging fotatory powers arrived aStudies operative iolutions .
notdiffelwasthat.thesamplesusedintheexperimentswithandwithoutacidshouldinrotatorypower ; toensurethis , aweighedquantityofthesugar was lved in water and portions of this solution were used in making up the solutions for the experiments .
Care was taken that mutarotation was always complete .
The same polarimeter tube was used throughout .
k$k In order to deduce the value of the initial rotatory power of the cane sugar in the presence of the acid , it was necessary to make observations as soon after mixing as possible and by extrapolation to deduce the value of the rotation produced at the time of mixing .
The solutions were contained unmixed in the mixing apparatus , described in Part XII , consisting of two 100 .
Jena conical flasks connected by a short wide -tube ground into the necks .
After being brought to C. in the constant temperature air chamber described in Part XXII , the solutions were quickly mixed while still in the chamber , the time being noted ; they were then immediately transferred to the polarimeter tube which was already at on the water circuit .
Readings of the rotatory power were taken at half-minute intervals and from these it was easy to find with a close approach to accuracy by extrapolation the value of the rotatory power at the time of mixing .
The initial rotatory powers given above were obtained in this malmer .
Table II .
Time in minutes after mixing Rotation NUTES AFTER M IXINC DIAGRAM IL 62.45\mdash ; 104.40 and The value of the ratio found when the molecular proportion of water to acid was 40 to 1 was .
In the absence of acid , therefore , it should be This value is practically identical with that found from Diagram I by extrapolation to zero concentration of acid , viz. , ; that found when sulphuric acid is used is Velocity of a-Partides in through Matter .
443 It is therefore clear that the large alteration produced by the acid in the value of the ratio of the final to the initial rotation in the experiments on : the hydrolysis of cane sugar oan be completely and satisfactorily explained by the changes produced by the acid in the rotatory powers of the three sugars involved .
The Decrease in yelocity of a-Partides in through Matter .
By E. MARSDEN , M.Sc .
, Lcturer , and T. S. TAYLOR , Ph. D. , John Harling Fellow , University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received Apri122 , \mdash ; Read May 1 , 1913 .
) It is becoming recognised that one of the most fruitful sources of information as to the internal structure of atoms is provided by the phenomena attendin the passage of swift electrified particles through them .
In particular from a consideration of the scattering of -particles it has been found that the atom consists essentially of a very concentrated charge at the centre of the atom*surrounded by electricity of the opposite sign , probably electrons , distributed throughout the remainder of the atom .
Further , Darwin and have attempted to obtain information as to the number and distribution of electrons in the atom by a consideration of the absorption or loss of velocity of the -particles in passing through matter .
The only data for this purpose so far obtainable aoe provided by the velocity curves , or relations between velocity and thickness of matter traversed , in aluminium as determined by Rutherford , S and in mica as determined by It seemed , therefore , of interest to make a more complete investigation of the velocity curves in various ances , more particularly as the earlier observations are subject to slight errors due to the assumption that equal thicknesses of matter have the same air equivalent at different parts range of -particles .
In the present experiments the velocity curves in gold , copper , aluminium , mica and air have been determined , using as source the -particles of E. Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag 1911 , vol. 21 , p. 669 .
C. G. Darwin , ' Phil. Mag 1912 , vol. 23 , p. 907 .
N. Bohr , ' Phil. Mag 1913 , vol. 26 , p. 10 .
S E. Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag 1906 , vol. 12 , p. 138 .
Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 83 , p. 605 .
VOL LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A. 2 I

