385 ] XII .
Report of the Observations of the Total Solar Eclipse of August 29 , 188(3 , made at Grenville , in the Island of Grenada .
ByH .
H. Turner , M.A. , B.Sc. , Fellow of Trinity , Cambridge .
Communicated by the Astronomer Royal .
Received February 23 , \#151 ; Read March 15 , 1888 .
I. General Arrangements .
The eclipse party was landed at St. George 's , Grenada , on Thursday , August 12 .
On Saturday , August 14 , I proceeded with Professor Tacchini to Grenville , a village on the east coast , near which it had been decided that we were to take up our stations .
Our instruments and baggage , with two huts constructed by a local carpenter at St. George 's , were placed on a sloop which was towed round the coast as far as Grenville Bay by H.M.S. " Fantbme " ; but , as it was unadvisable for a large ship to attempt to enter the bay , the sloop went in alone , and deposited its freight on the jetty .
I proceeded to Grenville by the Grand Etang Pass , which runs nearly east and west across the island from St. George 's to Grenville , being anxious to determine whether there was any chance of returning with heavy baggage by the overland route .
However , it soon became evident that this would be very difficult , if not impossible , the pass being little more than a bridle-path in certain portions .
The party\#151 ; consisting of Professor Tacchini and myself , Lieutenant Smith , of H.M.S. " Sparrowhawk , " a quartermaster from the same ship , and an artificer from H.M.S. " Fantome"\#151 ; found very comfortable quarters at Boulogne , the house of Colonel Duncan , which is situated about two miles from Grenville Bay , along a fair road .
After some delay , caused by very heavy rain on Monday , August 16 , which made the roads nearly impassable for a time , the huts and instruments were carted from the bay to Boulogne , and erected very quickly on a site close to the house , longitude 4h .
6m .
30s .
W. , latitude 12 ' 8'*5 N. One bell tent was also erected for contingencies , though this was almost unnecessary , as our instruments were unpacked and the cases left in the " buchan , " a kind of superior barn for storing cocoa , which was then nearly empty and was kindly placed at our disposal by Mr. St. George , Colonel Duncan 's representative .
The huts , which had been constructed before our arrival under the dhection of his Excellency Governor Send all , required very little modification .
They were ten feet MDCCCLXXXIX.-------A .
3 D 2.11.89 square , with a gabled roof , the ridge running north and south .
The door for entrance was in the western face .
The eastern roof consisted almost entirely of two shutters , which could easily be thrown open with a pole : and , after this , a large portion of the eastern face ( which , in my own case , was enlarged still further ) could be opened , turning about hinges which ran horizontally across the face .
This gave practically a clear view eastwards from the sea horizon up to the zenith , so that it was possible to work on the Sun from sunrise to midday .
The instruments inside were further protected from drippings by mackintosh covers .
My own instrument consisted of the Simms equatorial No. 1 , with a grating spectroscope ; and a 4-inch telescope by Simms , mounted as a part-counterpoise on the same polar axis .
The whole weight was about 15 cwt .
; and , as my work was not to be photographic , and no very great steadiness was necessary , it was found sufficient to place the base plate ( an iron plate 3 feet in diameter ) on the soil , after removing the turf .
After Tuesday , August 17 , the mornings were generally fine , and everything was soon in order for observation .
Lieutenant Smith rated the chronometer ( Arnold and Dent , 965 ) by sextant observations of equal altitudes of the Sun with an artificial horizon ; the local time of totality was found to be correct within a few seconds .
In taking a photograph of the portion of the spectrum under observation , some difficulty was found in preventing the film from becoming detached during development or washing .
I found at last that drying the plate thoroughly by the stove before taking the photograph prevented this detaching .
The night of August 28-29 was beautifully fine , but at sunrise clouds began to gather , and the observations of the eclipse were made under considerable difficulties .
The following notes will give some idea , of the circumstances :\#151 ; h. m. s. From sunrise to 6 30 0 6 30 0 6 31 30 6 33 15 6 34 15 6 41 20 6 45 30 6 47 0 6 48 0 6 49 5 6 55 0 G 56 30 7 0 20 7 10 10 7 12 0 Cloudy .
Sun appeared .
Cloudy .
Clear .
Cloudy .
Clear .
Slight shower ; Sun visible .
Shower passed .
Another shower .
Shower , passed .
Showery .
Shower passed .
Cloudy .
Clear .
Cloudy for ten seconds .
Totality .
SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 29 , 1886 .
h. m. s. 7 14 30 Light cloud passing .
7 15 5 Quite cloudy .
7 15 50 End of totality ; cloud lifted for five seconds .
7 16 0 Quite cloudy .
7 20 0 Clear .
7 23 15 Cloudy .
7 24 10 Clear .
7 25 17 Clouded up for some time .
After the eclipse the instruments were quickly dismounted , and , with the huts , were placed on board a small steamer , the " Waltham/ ' which , on Wednesday , September 1 , conveyed us hack round the south coast to St. George 's , stopping at Prickly Point on the way , to pick up a lighter containing the instruments and baggage of the southern party .
I returned to England with some other members of the expedition by the mail which left Grenada on the following Sunday .
II .
Observations .
( a ) The Order of Appearance of Certain Bright Lines of the Chromosphere Inner Corona .
In the programme arranged before the expedition left England , I was directed to attempt the confirmation of Mr. Lockyer 's observations before and after totality during the Egyptian eclipse of 1882 .
These are described briefly , with promise of further details , in the 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. ' for 1882 ( pp. 291 et seq. ) , and it will be sufficient here to reproduce the following paragraphs from this paper for convenience { ibid. p. 296 , SS 10-13 ) .
The observations were intended as a test of two rival hypotheses .
" On the old hypothesis the construction of the Solar atmosphere was imaged as follows:\#151 ; " ( 1 ) We have terrestrial elements in the Sun 's atmosphere .
" ( 2 ) They thin out in the order of vapour density , all being represented in the lower strata , since the Solar atmosphere at the lower level is incompetent to dissociate them .
" ( 3 ) In the lower strata we have especially those of higher atomic weight , all together forming a so-called ' reversing layer , by which chiefly the Fraunhofer spectrum is produced .
" The new hypothesis necessitates a radical change in the above views .
According to it , these three statements require to be changed , as follows :\#151 ; " ( 1 ) If the terrestrial elements exist at all in the Sun 's atmosphere , they are in process of ultimate formation in the cooler parts of it .
3 d 2 " ( 2 ) The Sun 's atmosphere is not composed of strata which thin out , all substances being represented at the bottom ; but of true strata , like the skin of an onion , each different in composition from the one either above or below .
" ( 3 ) In the lower strata we have , not elementary substances of a high atomic weight , but those constituents of all the elementary bodies which can resist the greater heat of these regions .
* -r " It was stated in ( 6 ) : While discussing the conditions of observation , that whether we were dealing with strata of substances extending down to the Sun , or limited to certain heights , the spectral lines would always appear to rest on the Solar spectrum , and that the phenomena would in the main be the same .
This , however , is true in the main only ; there must be a difference , and this supplies us with a test between the rival hypotheses of the greatest stringency .
" For take three concentric envelopes , A , B , C , so that only A rests on the photosphere , B rests on A , and C on B. The stratum B , being further removed from the photosphere than the stratum A , will be cooler , its lines will be dimmer , and the lines of C will be dimmer than the lines of B , and so on .
So , if we could really observe the strata , the longer a line is , i.e. , the greater the height at which the stratum which gives rise to it lies , the dimmer the line will be .
" Now , our best chance of making such an observation as this is during a total eclipse .
We do not see the lines ordinarily , in consequence of the illumination of our air .
As during an eclipse , before totality , the intensity of this illumination is rapidly diminishing , the lines first visible should be short and bright , and should remain short , while the new lines which become visible as the darkness increases should be of gradually increasing length .
" Further , the short lines which first appear should be lines seen in prominences and not in spots , and relatively brighter in the spark than in the arc , while the longer lines added should be lines affected in spots and not in prominences .
" The manner in which these expectations were realised is shown at once by the subjoined diagram from the same paper ( fig. 1 ) .
For convenience of reference I have used small letters to denote the lines shown in the lowest line of the diagram , beginning with a on the left .
Thus\#151 ; The two lines at 4870-71 are called a and b. 99 99 99 99 4890 9 9 99 c and d. 99 three 99 99 4918-23 99 99 e , f and g. 99 two 99 9 9 4932-33 99 99 h and i. 99 one 99 99 4956 99 99 k. 99 99 99 99 4970 99 99 l. In this nomenclature , then , lines g and l are seen by Tacchtni in prominences , SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 29 , 1886 , \#166 ; 4^ \#163 ; tS M .
55 A4 JH 03 O ___ Cu o 1 \#171 ; * \lt ; .
5\gt ; \gt ; * 55 B !
y=i ^ O .is i i fi P-i , rH \#187 ; Jh Sn fl SS .
d 52 \#174 ; 3 " -S \#163 ; 2 % S J 1 I a s h h Eh Ph tn r- cc CJ bb S fr-l CD \amp ; D fl O r\#151 ; i u 0 \#163 ; o 0 *4^ o3 O P \#163 ; \#163 ; \s oo \#163 ; j CD ^ S 2 \#166 ; p -p o \gt ; -\gt ; p H 0 .
iO S \lt ; N d co a 2 .3 ^ 0 4-\gt ; c3 HH S .2 d 0 0 o OQ \lt ; j 0 Eh s % rt ^ s OQ 0 0 r3 -iH o 3 co o .a s s a " H 0 ^ o \gt ; p\gt ; __ , I a r3 7-3 0 3 -H1 .3 * d dH \#151 ; T 0 c8 o s \#171 ; \#166 ; S -g J * H -* i-.S and the other lines ( excepting h and i ) are seen by Lockyer in spots .
In the Egyptian eclipse\#151 ; g and i ... .
k and l ... .
and all the other lines were seen 7 minutes before totality ; Q 33 33 ^ 33 33 3 3 O 3 3 3 3 ^ 3 3 3 3 3 3 In making my own observations , the slit of the spectroscope was placed radial to the limb at the cusp some minutes before totality .
The point of the cusp was brought on to the slit , and the motion of the Sun allowed to carry it gradually away .
The Solar spectrum , as seen in the spectroscope , thus became narrower as the point of the cusp approached , and finally disappeared .
It was hoped to catch the bright lines just at this point , the dark lines of the vanishing Solar spectrum serving as a set of fiducial marks for the identification of the bright lines .
But there was also inserted in the focus of the eyepiece a photograph of this region of the spectrum taken the day before .
Some twenty minutes before totality it was suspected that , in the increasing darkness , the lines of the photograph would not be well seen , and the places of the lines were therefore carefully marked by scratching the film with a sharp penknife ; the scratches were seen to accord well with the proper lines in the Solar spectrum .
But in the actual observations it was not found necessary to refer to the photograph , and the identifications mentioned below were referred to the vanishing spectrum .
For the period of the observations the cusp does not travel very rapidly along the limb , # so that the slit was nearly radial until a few seconds before totality .
I now subjoin the observations , as recorded at the time by an assistant to my dictation .
Time by chronometer .
h. m. s. 6 56 30 7 0 20 7 7 45 7 8 55 No bright line visible at cusp .
Cloudy ; no bright line visible up to the time clouds appeared .
Clear again .
F line appeared .
g appeared ; very short .
Cloudy for ten seconds .
g and i. Immediately after many lines appeared .
Totality .
End of totality ; cloudy .
Only F , g , and i visible at times .
* * The rate of motion is very nearly inversely proportional to the duration of totality .
For a three-minute eclipse the angular distances of the cusp from the point of disappearance are respectively 75 ' , 60 ' , 51 ' , 33-2 ' , at 4\#163 ; mins .
, 90 secs .
, 54 secs .
, 18 secs , before totality .
SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 29 , 1886 .
7 21 45 g still suspected , and k. 7 22 28 k certainly visible .
7 23 15 Cloudy .
7 24 10 Clear again .
7 24 42 No line visible .
7 25 17 Cloudy for some time .
In addition , I wrote the following note immediately afterwards :\#151 ; " Just before totality all the lines were glimpsed , but all were much shorter than was expected ; gand i were certainly seen before this , but no others .
F was very bright from time noted , and prominent after totality .
After totality was over , cloud still remained for nearly a minute .
Then F line only was prominent , but g and k were afterwards seen ; i was not seen ; k appeared to remain longest .
" The telescope used was one by Simms , of 6 in .
aperture and 6 ft. focal length .
To this was attached a grating spectroscope by Hilger ; collimator , 1J in .
aperture and 18 in .
focal length ; telescope , 1-^ in .
aperture and 9 in .
focal length ; magnifying power of eyepiece , 10 .
The grating kindly lent to me by Captain Abney was by Butherfurd , and contained 17,200 lines to the inch .
The second order of spectrum was used .
It will be seen that these observations confirm Mr. Lockyer 's in only a few points .
The phenomena were apparently of greater intensity in Egypt ; the bright lines g and i appeared there 7 minutes before totality , the first of which I saw 3 minutes and the second only 30 seconds before totality .
The second stage of the appearance of k and l in the Egyptian observations is not represented at all in my own , being indistinguishable both from the third stage and from the general flashing out of many bright lines which took place just before totality , and is represented in my own notes by " many lines appeared .
" Bright lines are recorded after totality for nearly 6 minutes ; and , as the appearance of k was unexpected , it was looked at carefully , with the result noted , " k certainly visible .
" I could not help feeling some doubt afterwards as to the observation ; and it is possible that it is really spurious , and due to the straining of the eyes , to the imagination , or other causes .
But it is only differentiated from the other observations by the fact of coming rather later in a somewhat exciting half-hour , and I have left the record untouched .
It is perhaps only natural that the clear atmosphere of Egypt and the great altitude of the Sun , as compared with the vapour-laden air of the West Indies and an altitude of only 18 ' , should modify the particular phenomena under discussion .
And , again , it must be remembered that in 1882 the Sun 's activity was nearly at its maximum ; whereas in 1886 , judging at least by the paucity of spots , the minimum was appearing somewhat prematurely .
This may have had a considerable effect on these phenomena .
This diminution of the period of time over which the phenomena were distributed , and especially the concentration of the later changes in the spectrum into the space of a few seconds , made a most essential difference in the observation .
The record of the Egyptian eclipse gave rise to the hope that the observations could be made somewhat leisurely\#151 ; which , indeed , is almost essential if the eye is to carefully compare faint lines ( the few early lines were too faint on this occasion to be held steadily by the eye , but could be seen by glimpses in the manner familiar to observers of faint objects ) in different parts of the field .
Instead of this , I found that the phenomena were sudden , and , with the few exceptions mentioned , the change which the spectrum underwent was confined to what has been called " the flash/ ' as I understand it .
Mr. Lockyer seems to have had the good fortune to see this " flash " in stages , extended for analysis .
For a complete confirmation of his results it is possible that better conditions may be necessary than those of the 1886 eclipse .
III .
Observations during Totality .
During totality I had been directed by the Committee to examine the corona , with a view to the detection of currents .
For this purpose , a 4-in .
telescope by Simms was attached to the same mounting as the 6-in .
used for the spectroscope .
The power used was 140 .
With this instrument I made a careful examination of the corona all round the limb .
It did not seem to me to vary essentially in appearance from point to point .
The structure was radial , and on following the rays outwards from the limb I could not detect any appearance of curvature , to join another ray in the form of a loop .
I believe such forms were represented in some of the naked-eye drawings .
The great prominence was a striking feature ; it seemed to me of a rosy tint throughout .
Concerning the particular object of the search\#151 ; indications of any sort of current \#151 ; I can only report a negative result .
There was , to my eye , scarcely any distinguishing feature in structure by which the orientation could be recognised ; though some of the rays were , of course , longer than others\#151 ; that is to say , I looked specially for the structure characteristic of the poles , and failed to notice any very marked difference from the structure in other parts of the circumference .
I then returned to the spectroscope , with a view to examining the brightness of the lines at different distances from the limb ; but the eye examination had taken some considerable time , and the clouds which obscured the Sun for the last minute of totality were already approaching .
IV .
Drawings .
The drawing marked A was made by Mr. St. George with an opera glass .
His eyes were not specially made sensitive before totality .
The drawing B was made by Lieutenant Smith , of H.M.S. " Sparrowhawk , from SOLAR ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 29 , 1886 .
naked-eye observations ; but his head was wrapped in a black mackintosh 15 minutes before totality commenced .
VERTEX VERTEX INDICATIONS TO \3 DIAMETERS Mr. St. George 's drawing .
Lieutenant Smith 's drawing .
The black centre represents the Moon ; the shaded circle in B represents the disk ( three times size of Moon ) which obscured the brighter portions of the corona .
Long , of station , 4h .
6m .
30s .
W. ; lat. 12 ' 8 , -5 N. No attempt is made in either drawing to give details , but merely the distances to which coronal extension could be traced , as estimated in diameters of the central black disk , which in the first case represents the Moon , and in the second a disk which was so placed as to screen the brighter portions of the inner corona from the observer 's eyes , and subtended an angle of 3 diameters .
It will be seen that the chief discrepancy in the drawings is in the orientation of the rays marked respectively a and b , in one of which there would seem to be some error ; otherwise the correspondence is remarkably good , except that Lieutenant Smith obviously traced the extension much further than Mr. St. George .
It may be mentioned that special rehearsals were conducted on the two days before the eclipse , in drawing on such skeleton forms of concentric circles pictures of coronse held before the eye for 3^ minutes .
The two gentlemen mentioned above were found to reproduce the direction of the rays very accurately , and , as regards distance , Mr. St. George seemed to be liable to slightly over-estimate the extensions .

