On some Fossil Bones discovered in Caverns in the Limestone Quarries of Oreston .
By Joseph Whidbey , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to John Barrow , Esq. F.R.S. To which is added , a Description of the Bones by Mr. William Clift , Conservator of the Museum of the College of Surgeons .
Read February 6 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 78 .
] In one of these caverns there was a lining of stalactite , and the bones were lying loosely covered with rubble ; in another , the bones adhered to the walls .
To this letter is annexed a description of the bones found by Mr. Whidbey , by Mr. Clift , Conservator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons .
They belong to animals of several distinct genera ; namely , the Bos , the Deer , Hyaena , Horse , Wolf , and Fox .
Of these bones , a few are superficially encrusted with stalagmite , but the greater number were firmly imbedded in stiff clay , and exhibit no appearances of mutilation , except in one instance , where the radius of a young wolf is impressed by the incisors and canine teeth of an animal the size of the weasel .
Such of the bones as were examined appeared to have lost the greater part of their animal matter , and had consequently become brittle ; some of them when immersed in water became black , but recovered their former appearance on drying ; this was especially the case with those of the carnivorous tribes .
Mr. Clift observes that appearances of disease in fossil bones are of rare occurrence ; among these , however , he found two examples in the metacarpal and metatarsal bones of the bovine animals , showing upon their surface the effect of ossific inflammation ; there were also marks of disease in the lower jaw of a young wolf .
It appears from Mr. Clift 's detailed enumeration of the bones from these caverns , that they are clearly referable to animals of known and still existing genera ; but he observes that it is a curious circumstance , that with the exception of the very few belonging to the deer , they all appertain to animals differing from those formerly found in the immediate vicinity of the present caverns .
Mr. Clift concludes this communication with a particular description and enumeration of the bones , which are further illustrated by reference to several drawings .

