872 On the Action of Heat on Saline Solutions .
[ Apr. 2 !
April 22 , 1875 .
JOHN EVANS , Esq. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Eight Hon. Eussell Gurney , Q.C. , , whose certificate had been su pended , as prescribed by the Statutes , was elected a Fellow of ti Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered f them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. \lt ; e On the Action of Heat on the Absorption-Spectra an Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions .
" By Walte Noel Hartley , E.C.S. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , King College , London .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. RJ Received March 10 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The effects of heat on absorption-spectra were recorded in the prel minary notice of this paper , published in the ' Proceedings of the Roys Society ' for 1874 ( vol. xxii .
p. 241 ) .
The contents of the present communication consist of:\#151 ; 1st , histories notes ; 2nd , method of working ; 3rd , the spectrum-measurements of dii ferent solutions ; 4th , conclusions as to the effect of heat on coloure liquids , and the following deductions as to the constitution of salts whe dissolved in water I. When a simple metallic salt is dissolved in water , it is not decompose* in such a way that an oxide and an acid is produced , nor does a compoun* of the metallic oxide with the acid result .
II .
When a metallic salt is dissolved in water to form a saturated solution it does not necessarily attain its maximum state of hydration .
HI .
When a simple hydrated metallic salt is dissolved in water to form \#163 ; saturated solution , the crystalline molecule remains chemically intact , except in the case of certain compounds which readily part with then water of crystallization , when dehydration takes place to form a molecule of greater stability ; or , in other words , solution facilitates chemica ] change in this as in most other cases .
875.1 On Attraction and Repulsion from Radiation .
When a simple salt assumes one or more definite states of hydration at liferent temperatures below 100 ' C. , the hydrated compounds A and B ill be successively produced in the liquid state if a saturated solution of le oi^ginal salt be heated to 100 ' C. ; or , in other words , the chemical institution of the liquid is altered so that , as higher temperatures are ; tained , it becomes a solution of substance A or of substance B , at itermediate temperatures mixtures of these .
V. The action of heat on the violet hydrated compounds of chromium is ot simply a dissociation of water-molecules or of acid from base , but a me decomposition , resulting in the production of a different class of fits with different generic properties .
Many new salts were prepared for this work , and others were examined Ith greater care than had previously been bestowed on them ; from bese substances , indeed , the most important part of the results were erived .
I. " On Attraction and Repulsion resulting from Radiation."\#151 ; Part II .
By William Crookes , Jf .
R.S. \amp ; c. Received March 20 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) This is the second part of a paper which the author sent to the Royal ociety in August 1873 .
The author commences by describing improve-ients which he has made in the Sprengel pump , and in various accesses which are necessary when working at the highest rarefactions .
Continuing the description of apparatus , the author describes different ew forms which enable the phenomena of repulsion by radiation to be ..served and illustrated .
A bulb 3 inches in diameter is^blown at the end \#163 ; a glass tube 18 inches long .
In this bulb a fine glass stem , with a ahere or disk of pith \amp ; c. at each end , is suspended by means of a cocoon-bre .
The whole is attached to the Sprengel pump in such a way that can be perfectly exhausted and then hermetically sealed .
Besides pith , ie terminals may be made of cork , ivory , metal , or other substance , during exhaustion several precautions have to be taken , which are fully atered into in the paper .
To get the greatest delicacy in an apparatus \#163 ; this kind , there is required large surface with a minimum of weight , m apparatus constructed with the proper precautions is so sensitive to cat , that a touch with the finger on a part of the globe near one extremity of the pith will drive the index round over 90 ' , whilst it follows a 2 a 2

