On the Nervous Ganglia of the Uterus .
By ROBERT LEE , M.D. , F.R.S. Received and Read , June 17 , 1841 .
IN a communication to this Society which was read on the 12th December , 1839 , I described four great plexuses under the peritoneum of the gravid uterus , which had an extensive connection with the hypogastric and spermatic nerves .
From their form } , colour , and general distribution , and their resemblance to ganglionic plexuses of nerves , and from their branches actually coalescing with those of the hypogastric and spermatic nerves , I was induced to believe , on first discovering them , that they were nervous ganglionic plexuses , and constituted the special nervous system of the uterus .
Subsequent dissections of the unimpregnated uterus , and of the gravid uterus in the third , fourth , sixth , seventh and ninth months of pregnancy , have enabled me not only to confirm the accuracy of my former observations , but to discover the important fact , that there are many large ganglia on the uterine nerves , and on those of the vagina and bladder , which enlarge with the coats , blood-vessels , nerves , and absorbents of the uterus during pregnancy , and which return after parturition to their original condition before conception takes place .
The uterus and its appendages are wholly supplied with nerves from the great sympathetic and sacral nerves .
At the bifurcation of the aorta , the right and left cords of the great sympathetic nerve unite upon the anterior part of the aorta , and form the aortic plexus .
This plexus divides into the right and left hypogastric nerves , which soon subdivide into a number of branches to form the right and left hypogastric plexus .
Each of these plexuses , having the trunk of the hypogastric nerve continued through its centre , after giving off branches to the ureter , peritoneumn , rectum , and trunks of the uterine blood-vessels , descends to the , side of the cervix , and there terminates in a great ganglion , which , from its situation and relations , may be called the hypogastric ganglion , or utero-cervical ganglion .
This ganglion is situated by the side of the neck of the uterus , behind the ureter , where it is passing to the bladder .
In the unimpregnated state it is usually of an irregular , triangular , or oblong shape , with several lobes or processes projecting from it where the nerves enter , or are given off from it .
In the long diameter it usually measures from half an inch to three-quarters of an inch , varying in dimensions with the size of the nerves with which it is connected .
The hypogastric ganglion always consists of cineritious and white matter like other ganglia , and gray and white nerves issue from it , which proceed to the rectum , bladder , uterus and vagina .
It is covered with the trunks of the vaginal and vesical arteries and veins , and the ganglion has an artery of considerable size , which enters it near the centre , and divides into branches which accompany the nerves given off from its inner surface , and from its anterior and inferior borders .
The hypogastric nerve , after separating into a plexus , enters its upper edge , and branches from the third and other sacral nerves its posterior border , and the whole of its outer surface .
None of the branches of the sacral nerves pass over the ganglion to the bladder , though some of them enter its anterior edge where the vesical nerves are given off .
From the inner and posterior surface of each hypogastric ganglion , numerous large nerves are given off , which go backward to anastomose with the haemorrhoidal nerves , which accompany the arteries to the rectum , and pass with them between the muscular fasciculi of the organ .
An extensive connection is thus established between the two hypogastric ganglia and the nerves of the rectum , and many large broad nerves pass off from the posterior and inferior part of these ganglia to ramify on the sides of the vagina , and between the vagina and rectum .
From the inferior border of each hypogastric ganglion several fasciculi of small nerves are sent off , which pass down on the sides of the vagina , and enter several large flat ganglia about midway between the os uteri and ostium vaginae .
From these vaginal ganglia , innumerable filaments of nerves , on which small ganglia are formed , extend downwards to the sphincter , where they are lost in a white dense membranous expansion , from which they cannot be separated without laceration .
From this great web of ganglia and nerves on the sides of the vagina , by which it is completely covered , numerous branches are sent to the sides of the bladder , which enter it around the ureter .
All these nerves of the vagina are accompanied with arteries , and they often form complete rings of nerve around the trunks of the great veins .
From the anterior margin of each hypogastric ganglion , large white and gray nerves are sent off , some of which pass on the outside , and others on the inside of the ureter , and these branches meet in front of the ureter in a ganglion , which may be termed the middle vesical ganglion .
There are other two ganglia formed on these nerves , one between the uterus and ureter , and the other between the ureter and vagina .
These may be called the internal and external vesical ganglia .
, The ureter is thus enclosed within a great ring of nerve , which resembles the iesophageal ganglion in some of the Invertebrata .
The trunks of the -uterine artery and vein are likewise encircled by a great collar of nervous matter , between which and the hypogastric ganglion , several large and some small branches pass .
The internal vesical ganglion , which usually has a flattened or long bulbous shape , is formed entirely upon the nerves which pass from the hypogastric plexus and ganglion , and run between the uterus and the ureter .
It has an artery which passes through its centre .
It first gives off a large branch to the ring of nerve or ganglion which surrounds the uterine blood-vessels ; it then sends branches to the anterior part of the cervix uteri , and afterwards a great number of small filaments to the muscular coat of the bladder behind , where it is in contact with the uterus .
The internal vesical ganglion then sends forward a large branch which terminates in the middle vesical ganglion .
This ganglion sends off a great number of large nerves to the bladder .
Some of these accompany the arteries , and can be seen ramifying with them upon the whole of the superior part of the organ , even to the fundus .
Filaments of these nerves , scarcely visible to the naked eye , are seen ramifying upon the bundles of muscular fibres , occasionally forming loops , and enclosing them , or passing down between them to the strata of fibres below .
Some of the smaller branches of the middle vesical ganglion do not accompany the arteries , but are distributed at once to the parts of the bladder around the ureter .
The external vesical ganglion is formed entirely upon the nerves which proceed from the hypogastric ganglion , and pass on the outside of the ureter .
This is a small thin ganglion , the branches of which are sent immediately into the muscular coat of the bladder .
It usually sends down a long branch to anastomose with the nerves and ganglia situated on the side of the vagina .
From the inner surface of each bypogastric ganglion numerous small , white , soft nerves pass to the uterus , some of which ramify upon the muscular coat about the cervix , and others spread out under the peritoneuin , to coalesce with the great ganglia and plexuses situated on the posterior and anterior surfaces of the organ .
Large branches also go off from the inner surface of the hypogastric ganglion to the nerves surrounding the blood-vessels of the uterus , which they accompany in all their ramifications throughout its muscular coat .
Other branches of nerves pass down from the ganglion between the vagina and bladder .
Soon after conception the bloodvessels of the nervous ganglia and plexuses now described enlarge , and the ganglia and plexuses themselves expand with the uterus .
The long diameter of the hypogastric ganglion at the end of the ninth month measures about an inch and a half .
I have published a full description , with illustrations of the great ganglionic nerves surrounding and accompanying the blood-vessels and of the ganglia and plexuses , situated on the body of the uterus T. the appearances presented in the fourth month of pregnancy by the hypogastric ganglia , and the ganglia and nerves of the rectum , bladder , vagina and uterus , and also the great plexuses of nerves situated on the anterior surface of the uterus , are seen in the Plates which accompany this paper .
From an examination with the microscope of portions of the plexuses under the peritoneum of a gravid uterus of nine months , which had long been immersed in rectified spirit , Professor OWEN and Mr. KIERNAN were led to conclude that they were not nervous plexuses , but bands of elastic tissue .
" The tissue of the broad , white , reticularly inter-communicating bands of fibrous matter resembling nerves of the uterus , " observes Professor OWEN , " consisted of minute fibres , which were solid , smooth , equal-sized , cylindrical and nearly transparent , irregularly interblended in their course ; their diameter does not exceed -1 O-t 01th of a line .
These bands correspond in structure with the fibrous modification of cellular * The Anatomy of the Nerves of the Uterus .
London , 1841 .
Fol. tissue .
The component fibres did not form tubes , nor were their interspaces filled with the primitive granules or cells of the nervous tissue .
" C In the nerves of the spinal system , the primitive fibres of the neurilema , which closely resemble those of the ordinary cellular and fibrous tissues , are arranged in the form of tubes , and can be distinguished into cylinder and contents .
The same structure , on a minute scale , exists , according tOVALENTIN* , in the sympathetic nerves ; but according to the observations of REMAK and SCHWANNt , the component fibres form solid bands , and are of a more transparent character than in the spinal nerves , but marked occasionally with swellings , and having granules in the interspaces .
" I consider that the difference between the nerves of the sympathetic and the fibrous cellular tissue to consist , as regards their microscopic character , in the greater proportion of the granules or cells in the interspaces of the fine , reticularly interwoven , component fibres of the nervous band ; and this difference I believe to exist between the two nerves of the sympathetic system and the white bands of fibrous matter which connect the peritoneum with the muscular substance of the womb , and which resemble a plexus of nerves.s } The tubular structure of the ganglionic plexuses on the body of the uterus has since been observed by Mr. DALRYMPLE , and the perfect resemblance of the uterine nerves to those of the stomach and intestines demonstrated .
The following letter contains an account of Mr. DALRYMPLE'S microscopical examination of the uterine nerves .
6 Holles Street , Aprl 21 , 1841 .
MY DEAR SIR , After having seen and very carefully examined , some weeks since , your very beautiful preparations of the nerves of the impregnated uterus , and after having felt convinced by their continuity , colour , texture , and mode of distribution , that they really were nerves , I was a good deal surprised to hear from you , and others , that their dentity had been doubted .
I was aware that it would have been worse than useless to have asked you for a portion of such suspected cords to submit to the microscope , knowing that they had been very many months immersed in strong alcohol .
It would neither have been fair to you , nor satisfactory to me , to have made such an attempt at solving the question .
Being anxious , however , to satisfy myself upon the subject , I obtained an uterus ( unimpregnated ) , and while it was quite recent , I traced several nerves , which I recognised , from their situation round the ureter , and upon the body of the uterus , to be similar to some you had previously pointed out to me .
These filaments I submitted to the microscope , and used a very beautiful eighth-of-an-inch object-glass made by Ross .
I found that it was impossible , with the most careful dissection , to detach any filament of nerve without including a quantity of cellular and elastic tissue ; so that although the tubular portion , indicating the nerve , was distinct , yet it was surrounded by innumerable extremely minute threads , coiled and contorted , such as one finds the component of elastic tissue , and the ultimate element of cellular membrane .
Under slight pressure , however , the tube was plainly discernible , containing granular matter , not uniformly distributed , but collected in minute masses , at intervals .
Small blood-vessels were also seen here and there , with blood-discs within them , which served to indicate the difference between the nervous and vascular tubes , and thus to avoid the possibility of error .
Being , however , aware that some of the most distinguished foreign microscopical anatomists had differed as to what was the real characteristic of nerves of the sympathetic system , I should not have troubled you with this communication had I stopped here .
Feeling , from this discordance of opinion , that there was no absolute test , or at least one which was not open to cavil , I thought to try a comparison of the uterine nerves with those that undeniably belonged to the ganglionic system .
I traced , therefore , some nerves upon the surface of the stomach , up to the great ganglion that gave them origin ; and I selected some also from the small intestine .
These I submitted to the same microscopical power , and under the same circumstances of light , and pressure , and medium .
In all of these I observed the tubular part filled with granular matter , and similarly collected in minute masses .
I also observed that each tube was surrounded by the minute serpentine threads before described .
In fact so closely did they agree , in every particular , with the appearances presented by the uterine nerves , that it would have been impossible to distinguish the one from the other .
Thus by comparing the unknown with the known , despite the want of any absolute test , I feel perfectly satisfied of the true nervous character of the very beautiful plexuses you have so patiently and with so much labour developed .
Admitting then this intricate structure to be really nervous , it is a matter of no marvel that they increase in size during pregnancy .
It would indeed be wonderful if the nerves alone remained stationary , while the muscular and cellular , the serous and mucous , and the vascular tissues increased , as it is notorious those structures of the uterus do during the period of child-bearing .
If , as is also indisputable , nerves shrink and atrophy when the function of an organ they supplied is lost or destroyed , is it singular that the uterine nerves should increase , when that organ rouses itself from inaction , to one of the most extraordinary exemplifications of temporary functional vigour that the animal oeconomy can anywhere exhibit ?
Pardon me this prolixity , and believe me , My dear Sir , Yours very faithfully , ~~~~~JOHN DALRYMPLE .
Dr. Robert Lee , KII .
S. Exhibits a posterior and lateral view of the gravid uterus in the fourth month of pregnancy , of the vagina , rectum and bladder , with their ganglia and nerves .
A. The fundus and body of the uterus covered with peritoneum .
B. The vagina .
C. The bladder .
D. The rectum .
E , F. The ovaria .
G. The great sympathetic nerve where it divides into the two hypogastric nerves and plexuses .
The arteries and veins of the great sympathetic are all injected in the preparation from which the drawing has been made .
A little above the bifurcation of the great sympathetic nerve , there is a deposit of cineritious matter in its substance , and the nerve itself is enlarged as high as the kidneys .
H. The right and left hypogastric nerves and plexuses .
The artery of the right is injected , and accompanies the nerve to the great ganglion at the cervix in which it terminates .
I. The left hypogastric or great utero-cervical ganglion , with an artery passing into it near the centre .
J. The third and other sacral nerves , sending numerous large branches into the posterior border of the ganglion .
and the whole of its outer surface .
K. The haemorrhoidal nerves accompanying the arteries to the rectum , and sending numerous branches to anastomose with nerves sent off from the posterior edge of the ganglion .
L. Branches of nerves with ganglia sent off from the left hypogastric nerve , which pass down on the inside of the ureter to the trunks of the uterine artery and veins , and enter ganglia which surround these blood-vessels .
M. The left ureter , with a nerve accompanying it , which passes into the vesical ganglion , situated on the anterior part of the ureter .
N. Rings of nerve , surrounding the uterine blood-vessels .
0 .
The middle vesical ganglion , into which large nerves enter , which are sent off from the anterior border of the left hypogastric ganglion , and pass on the outside of the ureter .
P. Broad , flat ganglia formed on the great plexus of nerves which covers the upper part of the vagina .
Q. The orifices of the divided veins of the vagina , which are completely encircled with ganglionic plexuses of nerves .
R. Filaments of vaginal nerves passing under the sphincter .
S. Large nerves covering the posterior wall of the vagina , and anastomnosing with the ha~morrhoidal nerves .
Exhibits an anterior and lateral view of the gravid uterus in the fourth month , and of the vagina and bladder .
A. The right hypogastric nerve .
B. The sacral nerves .
C. The right hypogastric ganglion .
D. Nerves from the hypogastric nerve to the ganglia on the blood-vessels of the uterus .
E. Ganglia surrounding the uterine artery and veins .
F. Ganglionic plexus , under the peritoneum on the fore-part of the uterus .
G. Filaments from this plexus passing out with the round ligament .
H. The round ligament .
I. The right ureter and trunk of the vaginal and vesical veins surrounded with nerves .
J. Ganglia and nerves of the vagina .
K. Nerves passing between the vagina and rectum .
L. Ganglia and nerves of the bladder .
M. Vaginal nerves passing into the bladder around the ureter .
N. Blood-vessels and nerves of upper part of the bladder .
0 .
Plexus of nerves under the peritoneum on the left side of the uterus , the bloodvessels of which have not been injected .
P. Filaments from this plexus passing out with the round ligaments .
Q. The peritoneum of the anterior part of the body and cervix of the uterus reflected upwards , to expose the ganglionic plexuses situated below .
MIDCCCXLI .
2 o

