]\gt ; Prof T. H. elock . .
The qnantities } have treated continuous functions of the time , , as .
of persons , they can only take values , and diqcontinuous unless they are constant ; in the bame Wfly , and vary nultiples of .
This is a selio } , hen the nnnnbers are large .
In a small village , ge nun ber of cases in the period ] ) two epidemics be only or thYec , and , if these are re1lloyed by any chance , ) hole events is there is no one to keep aliye the infection , a new tion may oorow up entirely non-imlnune .
Then of source infection same effect as if rose to its ) .
Tn , in the case of small populathe 11o ) ofte1l obtain , so that the hole of paper is ) ) than to small ones .
The ace By T. H. ELOCK , , Professor of plied Mathematics in the University of Received January 1 .
The study of the water waves produced by the motion of an signed pressure distribution over the surface has hitherto been limited to the steady state attained when the systenl has been moving with uniform velocity for a very long time .
In his latest series of papers on water waves , Lord Kelvi 1nade an elaborate phical and numerical study problems , and expressed the hope of apply i ' his lnethods to calculate the initiation and continued growth 0 canal vaves due to the sudden commencement and continued application of a moving , steady rface pressure .
Ill the ] ) , I have not attempted any of the surface olevation itself , but I )oceeded directly to the calculation of the corresponding wave .
At the wave resistance is known only for the steady state tain localised pressure systems in mifornl motion , and it se to attempt some estimate of ) time taken to attain his state when we into account the of the motion .
One examine eHecC of initial acceleration , .but I have limited the blem by only the case of a system which is suddenly shed , and is the same instant set in motion with uniform velocity .
Kelvin , ' Math. and Phvs .
Papers , ' , p. 456 ( 1906 ) .
The Initial TVrl .
face Fhe work is arranged in the following order : a general expression for wave resistance a function of the time , an exact solution for a certain waveless system , a comparison of this solution and the roup approximation , and an approximate solution for certain systems hich leave regular in their rear .
2 .
Consider , first , the eHect of a applied to the ot deep water , with no initial displacement of the surrace .
Take the of / / vertically upwards , axis of horizontal and the origin in the surface .
If the impulse is iven by and if the Fourier method applicable , the time is iven by where , and the real part of the integral is to be taketl .
of a pressure Rystem , whether s or , can be obtained integrating ( 1 ) suitably with respect to the time .
For he may be fcred a a succession of impulses ; to each impulse theltl corresponds a motion with definite velocity ) Cential , and the potential of the fluid motion auy instant is the sult of the potentials due to all the previous imilarly , the corresponding surface simply superposed , and we ) the required olution by an integration .
For a pressure system with uniform velocity have substitute for in ( 1 ) and then with respect to between the limits and .
But the solution so obtained is indeterminate to a certain extent , for we can superpose on it any infinite train of waves of wave velocity .
The so-called solution is found by choosing the amplitude of this train so as to annul the main ular vaves in front ot the travelling system .
The are , in fact , indeterminate , and evaluated by their principal value , in Cauchy 's sense of the Another way of this difficulty is to introduce small frictional proportional to the velocity .
The are then determinate , ulore complicated in form ; vever , the final results , after the analysis completed , can be simplified by taking the frictional coefficient as small we please .
We shall use this method , and it is sufficient for our purpo , se write , instead of ( 1 ) , , ( 2 ) where , ultimately , is to be considered small .
* * Compare Lamb , H ) Prof. .
H. Havelock .
Consider , then , a pressule system is suddenly established , and is at the same instant set in motion with orll velocity along the axis of , the elevation at time after the start is ivell For simplicity , we shall confine ourselves to pressure systems which are with espect to the origin ; so that we shall use only localised distributions for which the integrals finite and determinate ; the systems will be finite and continuous and such that the integral pressure is finite , that is , the integral nvergent .
Carrying out the integration with respect to , we obtain .
( 6 ) The first integral represents the steady state , while the second gives the iation from it when we take into account the beginning of the motion . .
From the first integral in ( 6 ) we have , with .
( 7 ) The is to be evaluated first , before we make zero , otherwise it is indeterminate .
The interpretation for certain types of localised pressure SteIn is well kllown ; in such cases the solution takes the form .
( 8 ) This solution represents an infinite train of regular vaves in the rear of the moving system , with a disturbance symluetrical fore and aft which becomes negligible at a distance depending upon the concentration and the velocity .
For our present purpose , all the examples we use are included under the case .
( 9 ) The Initial Wave Resistance of Moving Pressure .
243 To verify he solution ( 8 ) in this case , regard in ( 7 ) as a complex variable re For positive , integrate round a sector of radius bounded by the lines and .
Under the specified conditions , it can be shown that the integral along the arc tends to zero as is made infinite .
In this way the integral ( 7 ) is transformed into an integral , the line , in which we can make zero .
For negative , integrate round a sector of radius Fu bounded by the lines and , with .
We a similar result , xcept that the integrand has now a simple pole within the sector at the point approximately .
The residue at this pole ives the term in ( 8 ) which represents the there train of waves in the rear of the system .
It can also be verified that in this case and are finite and continuous bhroughout .
Returning to the general expression ( 6 ) , the second integral represents the deviation from the steady state .
It contains as a factor , and we see from its form that it represents the effect time of a certain initial distribution velocity and displacement .
To illustrate this point , consider a stationary pressure system which is suddenly established at a given instant and maintained constant .
The effect is the same as if there had been in existence up to the given instant two equal and opposite systems with their ultimate static effect upon the water surface fully established , the negative system then suddenly annulled .
Thus the subsequent effect is the steady state of the positive systcm combined with the effect of an initial displacement equal to the steady state of an equal negative system .
In tlJe same way , for a pressure system which is suddenly established and started in uniform motion , the effect is the superposition of the steady state of this system and the disturbance due to initial conditions given by the steady state of an equal negative system in uniform motion .
We shall find this principle of use in a later section .
4 .
The wave resistance in the steady state is usually obtained from energy principles applied to the regular waves .
The front of the train advances with velocity , while the rate of flow of across any fixed vertical plane in the rear is the group velocity ; from the amplitude of the regular waves in ( 8 ) , by equating the net rate of gain of fluid energy to , it follows that .
( 10 ) Some consideration is necessary before we can apply method to the motion before the steady state has been attained .
VOL xcm .
Prof. T. H. Havelock .
with a case in which there is no ambiguity , namely , when the waves are produced by a rigid body moving horizontally the liquid .
We can apply the general hydrodynamical principle that the rate of increase of total energy of the fluid is equal to the activity of the pressure taken over all the bounding surfaces .
If we equate the rate of increase of energy to the product of a force and the velocity of the rigid body , it follows that simply the total fluid pressure on the body resolved horizontally .
result can easily be verified by direct alculation for the steady state , whethe1 the waves are produced by the motion of a rigid body or by the motion of an assigned surface pressure ; in fact , the two cases are identical in the steady state , for we can imagine the surface pressure to be applied by a cove ] which fits the water surface everywhere .
Conside now the problem before the steady state has been established .
Ii the waves are caused by a rigid body , we can use either definition the wave esistance ; we can calculate it from the rate of increase of fluiCl energy or from the total horizontal pressure on the body .
We are nol discussing this case , simply because so far the analysis has proved complicated to allow of suitable reduction .
We replace this problem by thal of the motion of an assigned surface pressure .
Now we can calculate the rate of increase of the total energy of the fluid when the pressure system is ] lnotion .
But it would not be satisfactory to divide this quantity by velocity of the pressure system and define the quotient as the wave resistance for part of the increase of fluid energy is independent of the motion of the pressure system .
For instance , if a stationary pressure system is suddenly established and maintained steady , the activityof the surface pressureis not zerc immediately after the initial instant ; there is a subsequent flow of energy .
whose rate ultimately subsides to zero .
From these considerations it seems that we should get results more comparable with the wave resistance of a rigid body by .
adopting the alternative method of calculation .
In what follows we shall therefore calculate for any instant the total horizontal component of the surface sure regarded as applied normally to the surface of the water ; and we shall define this to be the wave resistance .
With the usual limitation that the slope of the surface is everywhere small , we have from this definition .
( 11 ) We can verify that this gives the same result ( 10 ) for the steady state .
instance , taking the expressions in ( 8 ) , the part which is symmetrical with respect to the igin gives no contribution to , and we obtain The Wave Resistance of a Moving Surface Pressure .
245 .
or if we work directly from the integral ( 7 ) , we have ' where the real part is to be taken .
Under the general conditions specified for , or , in particular , for the case given in ( 9 ) , it can be shown that this leads to the same expression ( 10 ) .
The wave resistance in general is the sum of two parts , the steady value , as iven by ( 10 ) , and the deviation Using the definition ( 11 ) with the second in ( 6 ) , we find ( 13 ) 5 .
Consider first a special oase in which the pressure system is such that there are no regular waves left in the rear , a type which Kelvin called a waveless system .
It follows from ( 10 ) , ( 12 ) , and ( 13 ) , that this is the case when the system is such that is of the form , where remains finite .
We have then .
If this system is made to travel with the velocity , for which is the free wave-length , there will be no ular train of waves in the rear .
The integrals ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) now remain finite and with zero ; we can thus the expressions by zero .
The integral vanishes , as does also the equivalent expression ( 10 ) .
Then , taking the real of ( 13 ) , we find for the total wave resistance of this system at any time .
( 15 ) It is of interest to examine this solution when the integral can be evaluated exactly in finite gested some years ago a method of up exact solutions of certain wave problems , and similar forms have been analysed in detail by Kelvin , alter obtaining the solutions by a different } ethod .
The cases in which ) we an carry out the rations in ( 15 ) lead to nilar functions ; we obtaiu .
( 16 ) .
* W. Burnside , ' Proc. Lond. Math. Soc vol. 20 , p. 31 ( 1888 ) .
Prof. T. H. Havelock .
This case is the simplest of the type which allows of exact evaluation of ( 15 ) and for which the pressure is finite .
To derive the pressure sysCeul , we make use of Euler 's rals of the form , ( 17 the Fourier integral theorem , combined with ( 16 ) and ( 17 ) , we .
find : .
( 18 The two terms of this are easily raphed when expressed terms of the ; two numerical cases are shown later .
We can ow find the resistance for the system ( 18 ) , with velocil ! .
Substituting ( 17 ) in ( 15 ) , and writing we have - .
( 1 The rals involved can all be derived , by differentiation with respect the para1neters , frout Carrying out these operations , we obtain finally A ( 21 ) where ; ; ; 6 .
Before working ont numerical examples , it is convenient to record the asymptotic expansion suitable for large values of .
From ( 21 ) , The Initial Wave a Moving Surface Pressure .
247 writing and the various terms , we get , up to and terms in , ( 22 ) : where and .
If the pressure system has moved hrough wave-lengths , we have , and Che ratio of the amplitudes of the terms in ( 22 ) is an expression which gives some estimate of the approximation obtained by using only the first term of ( 22 ) .
It depends not only upon the distance travelled , but also upon the ratio of the effective breadth of the system to the free -length for the assigned velocity .
Compare this approximation with that obtained by applying Kelvin 's group metbod directly to the integral expression for the lesistance .
Under certain conditions , imate value of an of the form is iven by , ( 24 ) the or lower .
taken in the exponential according as is positive or ative , and being a root of .
It is assumed that the circular function in the goes a large } umber of periods within the range of integration , while changes comparatively slowly ; in addition , the quotient must be small .
Apply this to the form for given in ( 13 ) .
The second term within the square brackets contributes nothing to the approximation ; from the term we have , with Hence ; ; .
From and ) the value of is ( 25 ) Taking the real part of this expression and zero , we obtain * Lamb , ' Hydrodynamics , ' p. Prof. T. H. Havelock .
It should be noted that for a pressure system which leaves yular waves in its rear , we cannot take ( 26 ) as an approximation for the limiting value of ( 13 ) when , except under certain further limitations .
For the present this difliculty does not arise , as we are considering a waveless system wioh of the form ; we have seen that in this case the rals ( and ( 13 ) remain finite and determinate with zero .
In particular , for the forms and ( 18 ) , the group formula ( 26 ) reduces to , ( 27 ) which , from ( 22 ) , agrees with the first term in the asymptotic expansion of the exact solution for this case .
Instead of expressing as a function of the time , we can use the distance traveiled , or again the number of free wave-lengths which the system has moved ; in the last case the circular function in ( 27 ) becomes .
The form of ( 27 ) agrees with the definition of the wave resistance as the resolved total pressure .
For after a sufficient time , the surface in the neighbourhood of the moving origin consists chiefly of the simpie waves whose roup velocity is the velocity of the pressure system ; thus the wave-length is 7 .
Consider now two numerical examples of the exact solution ( 21 ) with different values of the ratio In the first place , we shall adopt units used by Kelvin , for comparison and for simplicity of calculation .
Casc : ; ; ; ; From ( 18 ) the pressure system can be obtained by graphing where .
The graph is shown in curve ( 1 ) of fig. 1 ; the curve has maxima near , though they are almost inappreciable on the diagram .
It is convenient to graph the resistance curve upon a base ; in this particular case is also the number of wave-lengths through which the system has moved .
The angles of the formula ( 21 ) are now ; , .
It is unnecessary to repeat the expression ( 21 ) with these values ; each of the 14 terms can be easily ] ated for any given value of .
The results are shown in curve ( 1 ) of fig. 2 ; to obtain the curve 15 points were calculated by the formula ( 21 ) .
The wave resistance decreases ultimately to zero , as it should for a waveless of a Moving Pressure .
249 system , but it approaches the steady state very slowly .
This is explained [ when we examine the graph of the pressure system in this case .
The waveless character is due to the mutual interference effects produced by the peaks of the pressure graph , and fig. 1 shows how inappreciable the peak Prof. T. H. Havelock .
are in this case .
Hence the slowness with which the steady state is attained and the probable lack of stability of the steady state .
To compare the group approximation with the exact solution , we have from ( 27 ) The following is a comparison of the values of , as given by and the exact formula ( 21 ) : .
Group .
Exact .
Ccvse ii.\mdash ; As a second nunlerical example , we take one which correspond more to practical conditions , in that the pressure system is similar to that associated with ' motion of a ship model in an experimental tank .
Using foot-second units , we take ; !
; ; ; The presisure system is raphed in cllrve ( 2 ) fig. 1 , from the expression 8 .
We notice the contrast between this and the previous case .
We should now expe the steady state to be attained quickly and to be much more stable .
This is brought out very clearly by the resistance curve , which has tJeert graphed from ( 21 ) , and is shown in curve ( 2 ) of fig. 2 ; after the initial peak , the subsequent oscillations can scarcely be Qhown on the scale of the diagram .
A cQmparison of the for1nula and the group approximation gives similar results to the previous case , for in both the numerical value of the ratio ( 23 ) is of the order , in spite of the difference in the values of for the two cases .
It should be remarked that the two cases cannot be compared as regards absolute values from the curves , because the scale for the ordinates has been chosen arbitrarily in each case .
The maximum value of , that is , the value at the prominent peak on culve ( 2 ) , is given by We can obtain some idea of the magnitude by the following comparison .
We have chosen the pressure system so that it is waveless at a particular relocity , namely , 20 feet per second .
Now , imagine the same system to be , The Initial Wave of Moving Surface .
251 driven at any other steady velocity ; it will have a steady resistance , which we can calculate from the formula ( 10 ) ; in this case it is This steady wave resistance has a maximum at a velocity of about , and the value of is then .
Hence the maximum resistance due to the sudden starting of the system at wayeless speed is about one-half the maximum steady resistance at any miform speed .
8 .
We have been able to obtain an exact solution for a special type of waveless system ; we leave this now to consider more symmetrical localised pressure system , which is suddenly established and set in motion .
We have seen that the surface elevalion at any time is found by superposing the steady state of the system and the effect due to initial conditions given by the steady state of an equal ative system in uniform motion .
Apply this to a case in which the steady state of tlai of regular waves in rear of the system , with ( localised ) acement symmetrical with respect to the moving origin .
Let the fixed origin and starting point , and the position at time .
The deyiation from the ultimate steady state consists of the effect due to certain initial distribution of displacenlent and velocity localised round , togerher with the subsequent state of a semi-infinite train of regular aves , which at the instant had a definite front at the point O. We may describe latter part in general terms as a regular train with front , more or less definite according to the time , at a point corresponding to the ocrroup velocity , and in advance of a disturbance which may be called the f'orerunner .
If OC is sufficiently large , and if we require the surface eleyatio only at points sufficiently far in advance of , the forerunneliven with considerable accuracy by Kelvin 's group method of nation .
The ument is represented diagrammatically in fig. , the continuous line showing the elevation and the dotted line the pressure system .
The wave resistance being defined as the total horizontal component of the pressure system , we divide it into two parts .
The first part is the final steady value as given in ( 10 ) , and the second is the deviation given by the in ( 13 ) .
The latter represents the resolved pressure Prof. T. H. Havelock .
system as if the surface elevation were that due to the stoppage of a no .gative system , as represented in For a concentrated pressure system , the value of the integral ( 13 ) will be given approximately by the Kelvin group method , if the time is sufficiently ; that is , if is suiliciently far in advance of for us to neglect the contribution of the applied pressure on the surface to the rear of G. Without attenlpting to these conditions more precisely , we shall apply the method to the type of system used in the previous sections ; from the previous exact solution have been able to estimate somewhat the degree of accuracy of the roup approximation .
The group value of ( 13 ) is given in ( 26 ) .
Hence the wave resistance , for sufficiently values of , is yiven by .
( 30 ) ( J. this to the ) ressuredistril ) ution , ( 31 ) for which , with .
The graph of this distribution is shown in curve ( 3 ) of We have .
( 32 ) The value of oscillates about the final steady value .
The relative deviation is ' iven by the ratio of the two terms , namely , where is the wave-length of the regular train and .
We may obtain numerical values by using the two cases of the previous sections .
For Cass we have , and we find the following comparison between , the final steady resistance , and , the deviation given by the second term Hence , after the system has moved through nine wave-lengths , the deviation is less than 5 per cent. The Initial Wave of a Moving Surface Pressure .
253 In Case and .
We find that when , the deviation is already less than per cent. 10 .
Consider ow a simpler type of localised pressure distribution , namely , .
This type leads to a steady wave resistance whose variation with the velocity is more like that of a ship model .
We have , and ( 30 ) gives .
( 34 ) The relative deviation is now 32 times as as in the previous case , since With ) value of is about for .
We should have to take of the order 10,000 before ] ) ringing the deyiation from the steady value below per cent. On the other hand , , the deviation under 2 per cent. when , or at about 35 seconds after Che inning of the motion ; it is less than 2 per cent. when , or after a trayel of rather more than 300 feet .
11 .
The waves produced by the horizontal motion of a circular cylinder of small radius .
at a considerable depth below the surface may be compared with those produced by the surface pressure .
( 35 ) We assume that the intensity of the system is proportional to the square of the velocity .
It appears that the steady wave resistance is then the same function of the velocity as in the motion of the cylinder ; for we have and hence .
( 36 ) As a numerical example , take the se when the velocity is such that the steady resistance has its maximum value ; that is , when Then we have .
( 37 ) The value of the ratio means a deviation from the steady value of about per cent. when , that is , when the system has travelled through a distance * Lamb , ' p. 408 .

