]\gt ; Photometric Observations of the and Slny .
25.5 commenced , i.e. , perpendicular to the axis ; but when the is soft , the plane of the tear gradually tilts over and coincides the surface of least resistance to shearing , i.e. , becomes inclined to the axis .
Now , at rupture , an originally soft bar is harder in the centre of narrowed section than at the circumference , where the drawing has been less ; hence , fracture commences at the centre perpelldicular to the axis , and tears outwards ulltil it reaches the softer material , when it will continue along a surface of least resistance to shearing , i.e. , along a formed by the intersection of two cones .
Hence , we find the fracture of a soft steel bar consisting of a crater with a more or less extended ba , se ; see figs. 5 and 6 , Plate 2 , and 6 and 7 , Plate 3 .
The harder the steel , at the outset , the broader will be the base of the crater , until , in very hard steels , there is only a rim or crown lef round the edge ; and in the hardest all trace of the surface of least resistance to shearing disappears .
[ Note .
have employed the term " " hard\ldquo ; in the sense usually understood , i.e. , w.here the ' hardness\ldquo ; is measured by the value of the limit of elastic resistance .
] Photometric of the Sun and Sky By WILLIAM BRENNAND .
Communicated by C. B. CLABKE , F.R.S. Received October 30 , \mdash ; Read December 11 , 1890 .
1 .
the publications of the Sociefy from 1859 to 1870 , many comby Sir Henry Roscoe on this subject will be found .
Of the most important bearing directly on my Bunsen and Roscoe , " " the Direct Measorement of the Action of Sunlight in ' Phil. Trans , pp. } is proved , inter alia , ) equal shades are produced in photosensitised paper by equal products of intensity of light of insolation .
The preparation of a photographic pape always possess the same degree of sensitiveness is carefully " " On a Method of Meteorological Registration of Daylight in 'Phil .
Trans 1865 , pp. 605stated , inter alia , that light of intensity ) the same effect as light of intensity 1 acting arrangement for exposing the paper horizonta ] , vertical drum , is explained .
Mr. W. BreImand .
Tables are added of half-hourly readings at Manchester , general actinic effects for different seasons of the year , \amp ; c. .
Roscoe and Baxendell , " " On the Relative Chemical direct Sunlight and diifuse Daylight at different Altitudes of in 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 15 , 1866-67 , pp. 20-24 .
By " " total daylight\ldquo ; is the whole resultant Sun and sky om paper exposed horizon ally .
By " " diffuse daylighb\ldquo ; is meant the same action when the stopped out .
" " direct sunlight\ldquo ; was taken as the difference between two ; it does not appear to have been observed directly .
oscoe , " " On the Chemical Intensity of Total Daylight at and Para in ' Phil. Trans 1867 , pp. 555-570 . .
Roscoe and Thorpe , " " On the Relation between the Sun 's tude and the Chemical Intensity of Total in a Sky in ' Phil. Trans , pp. 309-316 .
2 .
My observations made at Dacca , in 1861-1866 Milverton , in Somersetshire , during the year ) , were made entire ignorance of the work of Sir H. Roscoe ; his resuls , so far as they agree with mine , afford an support theory .
My experiments have been directed largely to the laws of the distribution of the actinic power in the sky , and the work of Sir H. Boscoe overlaps mine at particular points So also Roscoe has taken numerous observations of the sky less clouded ; I take no observation except when the sky is clear , find even a very slight haze to produce large differences measurements , and to bring into the numerical results that I have not at present attempted to deal with .
3 .
The method of measurement I adopted , is the darkening duced in sensitised photographic paper ; for this effect I Roscoe 's of ' ' bhe chemical action My method of differs from that of Roscoe in one important point : I use from one iform sheet of ordinary aphic paper ; measurements are so far reIative , and I obtain the same results ( ratios ) with any paper .
I compare ultimately the the Sun and of a candle on this same paper .
Roscoe , by special paper with definite proportions of nitrate of depends on thus reproducing paper of exactly the same I make each lrement numerically ( as did Roscoe ) by the shade produced with some standard blackness .
4 .
I sum that in the burning of a stearine candle , the " " action\ldquo ; is proportional to the material consumed .
I my unit ( i ) of measure of chemical action , the darkening at a distance of 1 inch from the wick of the candle , when were consumed , which , in the candle I used in India , Photometric Observations of the and Sky .
[ I am here narrating the course I pursued in comthese observations at ; I very soon as I was able , by the aid of my table given below , to recover unit of measurement by a Sun observation .
] 5 .
I form a strip of photographic about inch deep into a circular ring , aced inside a metal cylinder 3 inches in diameter .
I place now my standard candle eccentrically , at a istance of 1 inch from the , and burn the 100 grains of steallne .
I get a strip which is actually coloured from the point nearest the centre ( where the intensity is ullit i ) to the most remote poinb ( where the intensity is ) .
By calculating the distances of rious points of the ring from the wick , the intensities corresponding to these distances can be marked .
I exhibit a snuall ( of somewhat different dimensions ) so calibrated to show a oCale of intensities ; it has lost its original shade in consequence of and For actual purposes measurement , a strip is used in its iginal unfixed state .
6 .
My earlier observations on the chemical action of the Sun and sky , were made in Bengal , with a mica actinometer In this , small squares of one sheet of sensitised paper were ered by 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 .
thicknesses of mica cut from the same plate ; the sheet of paper then exposed to aIly 1 for a certain time gave me a of shades .
To measure the effect of the Sun or of any portion of the sky , I noted the time necessary to darken the paper it matched one of the squares in blackness .
Tbis instrument I long since laid aside , as I have snperseded it by better ; but by aid in 1863 I was led to the attempt of measuring the action of the Sun , in a clear sky , for each degree of the Sun 's altitude , so as to form a table of constants , which would render a direct reference to the candle power unuecessary .
7 .
I have made an } trument ( fig. 1 ) similar to one employed in The plane on which to expose the sensitise paper has in altitude and azimuth ; a perpendicular style is placed at ; and , by shifting the plane until the style casts no shadow , cau be adjusted at right angles to the Sun 's , and the caIl be read by a brass ) .
A slide covers the strip of sensitised paper , is made to move uniformly plane , by means of a string passing over a pulley ched to a in a column of water in a long cylinder ( the one used in a rain-gauge ) ; the float descends as the water is drawn off by a at the bottom of the cylinder .
Lines can be drawn on a pasted on the plane , beside the longitudinal slit , in which is the sensibised paper , corresponding to the motion for 1 , 2 , 3 , seconds ; also a seoond gauge has been drawn for a larger quicker motion .
By simply moving the sensitised paper Mr. W. Brennand .
laterally , a fresh portion of it is brought under the longitudinal and the observation can be immediately repeated , several times desired .
8 .
By comparing the darkemng produced in the paper in graphs 5 and 7 , we easily show that we have to expose the paper times as long produce the effect caused by diminishing the one half ; and that a light of intensity 4 acting for 1 second same effect as a light of intensity 1 ting for 4 seconds .
think might have been assumed ; Bunsen and Roscoe , in their ( 1863 ) above cited , have , however , taken great pains to prove it .
9 .
My early experiments were designed to test the total the sk and Sun for photographic purposes .
I have always mented mainly by exposing the paper at right angles to the Sun 's Roscoe on the other hand , exposes his paper in a horizontal It will be seen below , that theoretic considerations have led another method of observation , which gives directly the effect really desired , and does not require a clear heavens horizon on all sides ( the Octant Actinometer ) .
I give example of my experiments the following table ( A ) .
Photometric Observations of the and Sky .
on December , 1863 , on roof of my house at the sky being perfectly clear .
The paper was exposed at right to the Sun , thus giving the effect of the Sun , er with the ( resolved on the plane at right angles to the Sun ) of tbab the visible sky within of the Sun .
number in the fifth column in this table , is the reciprocal of the of numbers in the third and foul'th columns .
taking the last but one observation , constant of shading as the standard of comparison tint produced in the same paper by the candle burning 47 at 1 inch distance .
Hence , he unit I here employed was times the unit in paragraph 4 above .
to gct a deeper shade of darkening in the first two obserwhen the Sun was low , a smaller stopcock was used than 111 observations .
of these observations , the actual velocity of the slide was an assistant with a watch .
As in } ) agraph 7 can be obtained more easily and exactly by a the beside the slit , gl.aduated for the stopcock Mr. W. ennand .
10 .
The observations of Table ( A ) , and numerous observations , were taken with great care , the strips being same evening .
The strips taken on separate days , were also with each other ; it was thus found that the numerical values chemical action the same , different , and with candles .
In En.oland , I have , within the last two years , made observations to those at Dacca twenty-five earsv ago , and I three of the strips taken ; these have been fixed , and have quently changed both in density and in colour , and are merely for ] anation .
The photographic sensitised paper , pared in England , keeps in the dark for montbs renders consffint reference to candle standard unnecessary .
by the aid of the table ( B ) which immediately follows , I could in 1889 and 1890 recover the standard unit , by an observation Sun better than from candle .
11 .
The chemical action of the Snn alone , is got in a dark room , a vertical slit , so that the Sun 's light falls exactly down strip of paper , which I expose at right angles to his rays .
To get chemical action of the Sun and sky ( i.e. , the portion of the sky within of the Sun ) together , the exposure is completely the open .
The chemical action of the.sky ( i.e. , the resultant on the plane at right angles to the Sun of that portion of the sky within of the Sun ) is got by an exposure in the vertical stick having been arranged so that its shadow should cover the exposed strip .
As I took each of these three kinds of observations , giving rical resuIts respectively , I was enabled from the formula to check my observations , to test the closeness which the strips could be read certainly , and to show intensity of 4 acting for 1 second has the same eflect as the of 1 acting for 4 seconds .
12 .
I found , as Roscoe , working in a less pure atmosphere , in a still greater de , , that observations very close to the were not to be depended upon .
Also , in the cold } at at which season alone the sky was sufficiently clear , the Sun attain a greater altitude than about .
The flat roof of offered nearly a complete hemisphere of unclouded blue ; less , I know that the full effect of the band of sky near the must have been to some extent interfered with by haze ; conslants in some of the tables that follow will be , in a small affected by this cause .
13 .
The following Table ( B ) is slJortened , from one which up and printed photographically at Dacca in 1865 .
meanl'esult of very numerous observations , laken at altitudes Sun between and From to , the table Photometric of the Sun and Sky .
partially completed by using the formla where is tbs traversed by the Sun 's rays the atmosphere for different altitudes .
This formula is parallel to the equation used by Pouillet in his memoir on the Solar Heat ( and can be found in 's Memoirs , vol. 4 , p. 49 ) .
N.B.\mdash ; In this table , in each observation the sensitised was exposed ight a ] to the Sun 's rays : so that a different portion of the sky was observed at each altitude .
It must be carefully noted , with respect to these older observathat I actually observed , was the number of ' at each altitude necessary to produce a particular darkening paper , viz. , the sbade produced by the constant at distance unity , in that particulax paper ; the numberf priuted Mr. W. Brennand .
were obtained by taking the inverse of these times for the action .
15 .
The table is only a first approximation ; yet I have reater confidence in the values , than in those given by any one vation , the table itself deduced from a very large experiments .
Sir H. Roscoe believes ( Bakerian Lecture , 1865 ) that he the errors due to mabching shades to within 2 per cent. correct ; in graduating strips , the mean error was found by him not to 1 per cent. of the measured intensity .
I am not that separate observations were always so closely accurate in the of shades .
I employed my daughters independently , to match and compared them with my own reading , and found that eadings s differed more than cent. The paper employed , ried somewhat in tint ; exposed to the candle being a little redder than that exposed to and sky ; the same intensity in the darkening was sought every case .
I suppose the difference in tint to have been due to heat of the candle .
16 .
The effect of the sky observed , was that due to the each elemental area of il multiplied by the sine of the angle that } area and the normal to the plane of exposure , infinifesimal effects summed throughout the visible sky of the Sun .
The chemical action of the sky , of the portion of it thus in cluded ) is seen to be half that of the Sun at titude ; and of the Sun below , where little more than half the sky included in each observation , to be greater than that of the Sun .
17 .
I found the chemical action the Sun , exactly the sams he same altitude , at all seasons of the year and at all hours of day , as as the experiments vent at Dacca , and I find in the ) chemical action of the Sun at the same altitude Dacca .
I have not been able to get exactly the same candle I used at Dacca ; and a difference in the composition of the possibly cause a small difference in the resuIts , bnt I not one of much importance .
[ The observations in Table below in the postscript show that difference is absolutely nil .
October , 1890 .
] the ' Phil. Trans 1867 , ) , Roscoe says that for altitudes of the Sun the chemica ] intensities are equal ; and he sumes\ldquo ; that the same " " relation between the Sun 's altitude and cal intensity holds good at Kew , Heidelberg , and \ldquo ; of Roscoe are confirmed by my observations ; he obtained by " " averaging\ldquo ; numerous ervations taken at ] that the effects of , \amp ; c. , in the long run were Plwtometr Observations of the Sun Sky .
Roscoe supposes that a marked difference which he found in intensity between spring and autumn mi be due to a difference in transparency .
I can only explain some of Roscoe 's results by supposing that the sky was not perfectly clear at the time of the observations .
Indeed , from the description , many of Roscoe 's observations would appear to have measured the effects of cloudiness rather thau of Snn and sky .
I have no anomalies in the results of my observation except such as I think I may fairly attribute to oloud or haze .
My xperience in England is that it requires months of .
to cittch a sky that will give results similar to those I obtained ularly in Dacca during the cold season .
In the 'Phil .
Trans 1867 , p. 559 , Roscoe finds ( by the same method of " " veraging that " " the relation between the Sun 's altitude and the chemical intensity of total daylight is graphically represented by a right line And in the ' Phil. Trans 1870 , p. Boscoe and Thorpe say that the relation between altitude and chemical intensity , for altitudes above , is seen to be represented by a straight line .
Table indicates , and Table below pves , that the straight line is only a first approximation to the truth .
The calcuIation from my of the chemical lction of the whole visible sky ( and Sun ) on the plane can be eifected , as shown rther on in the esent paper .
18 .
Various observations had led me to expect that the chemical action of the sky at the same moment was diflerent in different of it .
To estigate this suspicion , I designed an instrume which I call the ailleuse ctinometer ( fi 2 ) ; 1 place in the .
; hand photographs of two of these instruments .
I mount a number of cylindric tubes in one plane in a semito the centre of which each tube is directed .
One extremity of ea.ch tube lies on the circumference of the circle ; the otbel extremities lie on a concentric circle of about half the radius .
In the clrcumference of this smaller circle , is a semicircular series of holes , agalnst which a semicircuJar block , the sensitised slip paperl ' is pressed by a .
Each cylinder in the first Dacca mitrailcut out of the sky a circle of angular diameter .
One of the near its top , carries a small plate of , on which to the tube , means of which the particular tube brought into a line the Sun .
By anoher motion the plane of au the ubes can be adjusted to the plane of or elsewhere ) .
plane the Sun at auy timo divides two exactly similar portions .
I call it the plane of 19 The observations ( Table C ) rd Decembor , Mr. W. Brennand .
the barrel with aperture being directed to the Sun , darkened spots were found to be very accurateIy of Further , I caloulated the times of exposure , for a mitrailleuse which ought , on the law , to give a tint .
I exposed this mitrailleuse for these calculated times the plane of symmetry , afterwards in a plane inclined to angle of ; the agreed closely with my show to be a very good approximation .
22 .
I have therefore made full use of the expression for the chemical action of the light of the sky in a circle from the Sun ( whose altitude is ) .
In carrying out intetions which include the portion actually occupied by the Sun , we do not , by employing this introduce any infinite expression ; for each circular band of of small breadth distant from the Sun has an area the chemical ction of such band is therefore : so total chemical action thus attributed to the sky in the area by the Sun 's disk would be inappreciable .
28 .
Bunsen and Roscoe ( ' Phil. Trans 1859 , p. 891 ) chemically the action of the rays falling from a measured clondless sky situated near the zenith , and then compared lumlnosiy of this same portion of zenith sky with of heavens .
They say " " the amount of light chemically Mr. W. Brennand .
, and the angular distance of an element in the zone SQ .
Denote by the chemical action exerbed by a circular area the sphere , on the plane at ight angles to the Sun .
The area of an element will be , the intensity of emical action will be The angle between the normal to the element considered to the plane is . . .
, for the whole bemisphere , of which the Sun is the pole , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( Q ) , from which , to get our desired resuIt , we have to subtract the chemicnl action of the gore RSH . .
Whence , subtracting this from equation ( Q ) , This expression cannot be integrated in finite terms , but , by formula of reduction in series , it gives which is the formula I have used in numerical computations .
is the numerical value in the column headed " " Sky Pholomet.i ; Observatio of the which is thus ought into direct veriIication by the mitrailleuse .
example of the actual of is added ppendi publication .
The values for for different of the Sult are much the most trustworthy observations , the obtained from a very large number of observations .
I by the formula obtained in the last ) , calculated the of for every within the limits to placed them in ) D. 26 .
Theorem.\mdash ; On the resolution of the chemical action of the sky iu a direction perpendicular to any plane .
The figure ( Dia .
2 ) is supposed an raphic projection of visible on the plane of the horizon ; being the the zenith , HSZM the projection of the plane of symmetry , tb.at of the plane of minimum intensity , and M'SI that of the plane thro at right angles t , o each of the other ( which I call of the Sun 's altitude ) .
These three planes , when produced , the into eight quadrantal surfaces , is one Ill the quadrantal triangle SMI , , I axe the poles of opposite Let the polar ates of ( an element of the ) be SP .
Then , as before , the element will an Lct the planes OSM , OSI , and OIM being the centre of the hemisphere ) be taken as planes ; OS , OM , OI , three axes Mr. W. Brennand .
of coordinates ; and suppose through the three quadrants to from , to the opposite sides , meeting them in respectively .
Then the normal chemical action may esolved in three directions pal.allel to SO , MO , IO ; and the componeuts in these directions ] be spectively i Ps .
Call these respectively have Ps hence 27 .
To find value of these essions for the hemisphere Sun at its apex ; we have to from to , and , which gives 28 .
To find the chemical aotion of the hemisphere about on the ho1izontal plane , we have otometric Obsertations of Sun and Sky .
, ( X ) .
29 .
This is a mere literal result : what is required is ; i. e. , the chemical action of the misplj ere about resolved on the horizontal plane ; that is , the relation between the action in the ] of minimum intensity ( Sun 's altitude o ) and he " " total chemical action of diffused \ldquo ; as observed by Roscoe on horizontally exposed paper .
The answer is identical in fornl with as given in ( X ) above ; but the limits of are functions of which lead to elliptic integrals .
Referring back , however , diagram 1 , it will be seen that ( Qz ) differs from by the addition of the gore AYH , the subtraction of the gore ; which will be found to be no difference at all as the values of the chemical of each element in the subtraoted gore are equal to those for a corresponding element in the added gore , with the same sign and angles of resolution on the horizontal plane .
Hence we must have\mdash ; C0S.x . . . . . . . . .
( Y ) .
As his is a resuIt of the first ance , I submit at the end of this paper in all Appendix , not for publication , the work by which I first arrlved at the equation ( Y ) by borious transformation of the elliptic lntegrals , which are reduced finally so that two , each ducible by integration in algebraic form , destroy each other .
30 .
The resnlts thus ived at by employing the law of cosecant are so neat that a suspicion may arise that the law have assumed as .
one lending to mathematic manipulations .
I may be permitted , therefore , to state , that the ] was rived at , more twcnty-two years ago , by experiment simply , and the sub .
after laid aside .
The present mathematic investigations were only rocommenced within the last two years , in order to ina betwcen my old Dacca observations and those H. In 'Phil .
Trans 1870 , , Sir H. Roscoe gi a table the total cbemica ] action of diffuse daylight ( i.e. , of the sky , the Sun being stopped off ) borizontally exposed paper .
observations were taken in Portugal , a perfectly cJear I therefore select them for comparison with egoing and observed values of constants . .
W. Brenlland .
and 2 arc copied from Roscoe , .
; column 2 gives .
colum113 ) calculated tion .
In column 4 I place the values of obtained table , { he ' sky alone\ldquo ; column , by the aid of the fornlula at end of Art .
24 .
In the 5th column the values in column 4 are brought up by portion for compal.ison with those in column 3 , the at altitude as the best ; i. e. , increaFing all the in the of 121 to 160 .
The discrepancies do not appear at first sight great between results of H. Roscoe and my own .
But his observations would the maximum value of attained when the Sun was at or near zenith , mine that this maximum occurs when the Sun is about 45 altitudo .
It is truc that in the Dacca Table , the uctual observations only to or tbereabout , and that the values for altitudes Snn above are only filled in hypothetically ; but my established observations at Dacca , for altitudes of the Sun from to , show directly that at altitudc ; of Sun of or value of would reach a maximum .
In my Dacca observations , each additiona15o to the Sun 's brings into cthect an gore of the sky .
It is clear ( apart the law and the integrations soquent thereon ) that will ve a maximum value when , the altitude , is about or I not surprised that so considerable a discrepancy ] ttcompax.ison of the observations .
In a singlc series of the incidcntal errors of reftding , \amp ; c. , would introduce into numbers given in column 3 sufficient differences to alter indicated for Photometric Observations of the Sun and Sky .
32 .
Since in table the value of for is found .
Roscoe 's vations to be , from mine to be , it follows that Roscoe 's unit of chemical action is of my Dacca candle unit .
This is merely a first attempt to correlate these units .
33 .
The resultant chemical action of the sky on a horizontally exposed piece of paper , the Sun 's altitude being , is found This vanishes wheIl i. e. , when 01 ' This gives an absolute value for , supposing daylight to cease when the diffused daylight of Boscoe entircly vanishes .
The extreme limit at which has been certainly observed when the Sun was below the horizon ; ab which time the would show the chemical action of diffuse daylight to be only part of what it was just after sunset .
In other words , the formula gives a good cement with the observed ation of twilight , bUpposing , that is , the illumination and the chemical action to follow much the same laws this extreme case .
34 .
Taking up the expressions for at the end of Art .
26 , I lntegrate them for the octant of the sphere contained by the three coordinate planes , , the plane of the plane lntensity , and plane of the Sun 's altitude ; i. e. , I take and each from to ; which gives [ ] , [ ] This suggested the construction of the octant actinollleter , which equires only one-fourth of the visible sky to be clear for observation , and the value of directly , iring no calculations of re- duction .
35 .
The octant actinometer ( fig. 3 ) consists of three quadrantal MOSt .
, MOI , and IOS , joined at their edges so as to form a hollo , and mouned so that one of the edges , OS , can be brought to point , an plane to the Sun and the lane MOI will then coincide with the plane of minimum intensit .
The , meant has auother adjustment ensl lns ' the with , it forms a of sensitised is placed in a small exposure trihedral of , and covered thin metallic trihedral in the .
of the several of these edrals of nsitised paper , so as " " the to quickly a series of -ations .
) The trihedral of seltsitised paper is , of course , efully cove till the unlcnt is in adjnstment ; if then exposed to the ac.tion the sky for ( say ) :30 seconds , the readings on the quadrantal MOS and JOS will be each 30 , and the quadrantal MOI will 36 .
1 tried this octant actinometer on the 13th August , 0\mdash ; the day that the sky had been partially clear for a time\mdash ; and ( with a more imperfect sky ) on the 15th and 1 , 1890 , at Milverton , neal .
The exposures were all seconds .
I give whole r that these observations interfered with gl.eatly but it may be well to explain exactly how they was shaded first by the water-motion actinometer ; of the Sun being known , the value of line in this erms of the Dacca candle unit , was knotvn by the aid of and working of the octant actinometer were found The readings in the two pIanes [ V ] and [ W ] were equal ; the results are in the .
These obtained directly by compal.ison with the " " sunMr .
W. Brennand .
strip and divided by 30 are the numbers in column 8 .
the numbel .
S in Column 4 represent [ U ] .
Now [ V ] should be These observations do not give [ U ] large enough .
Also , the observations of 12th August would show the value when to be about or .
But the Table true value of when to be ; that is to say , the ings of 12th August , 1890 , wi the octant actinometer are too high .
This may easily be so without any fault in the or in the observations , and on two reasons .
, the of any cloud may have given the readings [ V ] and [ W ] .
( Bunsen and Roscoe , in ' Phil. Trans 1859 , p. 905 prove that the presence of a thin film of cloud the amount of chemical illuminating effect in the most manner.\ldquo ; \mdash ; The clouds " " act as mighty reflectors of light a ve ry slight haze over the would give the sunstrip too low , largely increase the results of columns ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) read by I do not consider these observations to decide anything as to lnerits of the octant actinometer , which can oniy be tested by the sky of Dacca or some similar subtropical or station .
37 .
It is cult to determinc which method of resoIution sky and Sun gives the most useful measnre of the general total whether nlining the time of exposure of a ) or for ting the effect on vegetation .
Sir H. Roscoe has ( for the sky ) the resultant action on paper exposed horizontally append , thel.efore , in Table the cherllical action similal'ly measm so that column 2 is exactly the " " diffuse daylight " " of Boscoe , column the " " total " " of Roscoe .
This table is by calculation from the Dacca Table , by the aid of the , i.e. , from the value for in Art .
24 , and the , which are directly derived from that Tbis table , as far as , is a direct ence of the obsel.vations .
The values givell from up to are a extetlslon , pelhaps as near as would be given by interpolation known extremes .
I do not think the nnmbers for from might be arrived at in a similar way , would have value .
table , equally with the Dacca Table shows how sky effect is in com ariso 11 with the Sun eifect , especially for of the Sun below This be the explanation of the close to the north side of greenhouses exercise a influence .
Photometric Observations of the Sun and Sky .
Showing Chemical Action of the Sun and of the whole Sky , resolved on the Horizontal Plane , for various Altitudes of the Snn ( the Sky being perfectly clcar from Cloud and Haze ) .
The present paper contains my Dacca experiments and numbers arrived at by calculation therefrom .
I have been for a year making similar experiments in England whenever the sky by its clearness offered any chance of a geod servation ; hut I have not been able to get any observation such that I should attempt to correct the Dacca Table thereby .
, therefore , am satisfied to publish the present paper in its present form , leaving to others its extension by the help of further observations under a pelfectly clear sky .
38 .
Postscript , 15th October , 1890.\mdash ; I have within the last few days made a of observations with the octant actinometer , and have , by making a few sunstrips at different altitudes , compared the hmes for the candle unit with those of the Dacca tables .
These observations , though giving numerically valuable results , strongly confirm the views I have expressed in this paper , and I append a of them .
On the lOth the sky was seemingly clear ; but , tho values for [ V ] being much too high , I did not continue the the 11th October I took a sunstrip at , the Sun 's altitude ; comparing this afterwards with a candlestrip , I found for the candle unit to be seconds .
to the I found the time for the same ltitudo , , to be I therefore used sunstrip for the observabions in table .
I that , at least at on was really clear .
Some of the values in this arc those obtained by co1npntation for 280 Prof. E. A. Schafer .
On the Minute pcture of the The fact of the faint fog in increasing the value of [ V ] is plainly seen in the morniug observations .
The effiect very few faint fleecy clouds is seen in the increase of [ V ] for the observations at and , before which no bad been visible .
The air was saturated the whole day .
The candles which I used in all these observations , " " Belmont Sperm supplied to me so as to burn 100 minutes .
" " On the Minute Structure of the Muscle-Columns or styles which form the Wing-Muscles of Insects .
liminary Note By E. A. SCHAFER , F.R.S. December 15 , 1890 , \mdash ; Read January 8 , 1891 .
[ PLATES \amp ; 5 .
] The fibres of the wing-muscles of most insects are made up readily separable ]ongitudinal elements , which are often called ' ' -fibrils , \ldquo ; although several observers have remarked the ence of an apparently fine fibrillation in them .
To avoid I shall employ the term " " muscle-columns\ldquo ; ( Muskel-saulchen , liker ) , or its equivalent " " sarcostyles * to designate these They are united together to form the fibres by a not amount of granular interstitial substance ( sarcoplasrn , This substance has been regarded ( Ramon Cajal ) as the true tracbile material of the muscles , but it is eaesy , nevertheless , observe the contracbion of the sarcostyles , in white of a fact which has been pointed out by more than one writer subject ( Merkel , Kolliker ) .
If insect of which the wing-muscles are of the above described is cut open and placed in alcohol of about for twenty-four hours or more , and is afterwards glycerine , the sarcostyles of the wing-muscles can be examined without difficulty ; they exhibit almost every extension and retraction ( or contraction ) , and the usual of alternate dark and light transverse bands , with a raversing each light band .
When stained with dyes , haematoxylin , the dark bands are found to take the intensely ; the fine transverse lines are much less stained , clear bands hardly at all .
The various parts of the evidently differ from one anothe ] ' in their behaviour to reagents , and the transverse striation is not to be explained effect of the varicosities of the sarcostyle upon the light , flesh , , a oolumn .

