A Relation of a Child which remained Twenty six years in the Mothers Belly .
Taken out of the Journal des Scavans ; being the Extract of a Letter written from Tolouse 22 .
June to the Author of that Journal , by Monsieur Bail , M.D. THe said Author premises , that there having been many different Reports of this matter : Monsieur Bail took the pains to give an exact account , as well of the Infant , as of what accidents befell the Mother during her being big with It .
Taking also the Figure of the Infant , as it was seen of the whole Town .
Margaret Matthew , Wife of John Puget , Shearman , being with Child 1652 .
perceived about the end of the ninth Mouth of her bearing , such pains as Women usually have , when about to fall in Labour .
Her Waters also brake : but no Child follow 'd .
For the space of Twenty years , she perceived this Child to stir : with many troublesome Symptoms accompanying .
Which made her from time to time , to desire the Surgeon to open her Belly , and take out this grievous burden .
But for the six last years , she perceived not the Child to move .
Being lately fallen sick , she requested the Surgeon to open her when she was dead .
She died 18 .
June this year 1678 .
She was opened the next day , and a dead Child was found in her Belly , out of the Womb , no way joined or fastened to it .
The Head downward ; the Buttocks hanging toward the left side ; The Arms and Legs in the posture the Figure represents .
All the back part of this Child was covered with the Omentum ; which was about two fingers thick , and stuck hard to divers parts of the Body of it , not to be separated without a Knife ; which being done , very little blood issued .
This Infant weighed Eight pounds Haverdupoyse .
The Skull was broken into several pieces .
The Brain of the colour and consistence of Ointment of Roses .
The Flesh red , where the Omentum stuck , other parts whitish , yellowish , and somewhat livid ; except the Tongue , which had the natural softness and colour .
All the inward Parts were discoloured with a blackishness , except the Heart , which was red ; and without any issuing blood .
The Forehead , Ears , Eyes and Nose , were covered with a Callous substance , as thick as the breadth of a finger : which being taken away , the parts appeared , as in the Figure .
The Gums being cut , the Teeth appeared in the adultness of those in grown persons .
The Body had no bad smell , though kept three days out of the Mothers Belly .
The length of the Body from the Buttocks to the top of the Head , about II Inches .
The Mother died about the Sixty fourth year of

