VII .
" On a Colloid Acid , a Normal Constituent of Human Urine .
" By WILLIAM MAIRCET , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 28 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present communication is to describe the mode of extraction and the properties of an acid of a colloid nature which is always present in healthy human urine , and appears destined to become of great importance in Physiological Chemistry .
With the view of separating this acid from the urinary secretionl , the fluid is mixed with animal charcoal , concentrated , and filtered , and the filtrate , after precipitation with baryta-water , is dialyzed for about twenty-four hours .
The dialyzed liquid , after subsequent filtration and concentration , is mixed with basic acetate of lead , which precipitates the colloid acid as an insoluble lead-salt , along with a little hydrochloric acid and other i'mpurities .
The precipitate should be thoroughly washed , decomposed with sulphuretteddhydrogen , and again treated with animal charcoal .
When the acid is required in a pure state , the hydrochloric acid present is removed with carbonate of silver , the excess of the silver precipitated with sulphuretted hydrogen , and , after boiling to evolve this last substance , basic acetate of lead is again added .
The lead-salt perfectly washed may be considered pure , and the pure acid can be obtained from it by decomposition with sulphuretted hydrogen .
The acid is very slow to decompose when exposed to the air .
It may be considered to undergo no loss or decomposition by being boiled , as shown by direct experiment .
After concentration by heat , its colour darkens and it becomes syruipy , possessing a sharp acid taste , with a slight acrid and astringent after-taste ; the taste is perceptible in the solution when very dilute : no crystals of the acidI could be obtained in the syrup .
Dried at a temperature under 2120 F. , the acid has the appearance of a transparent varnish ; it is very hygroscopic , and dissolves readily in water , though not apparently in alcohol ( sp. gr. -820 ) or in ether .
When burnt , the colloid acid chars , emitting a pungent and irritating smell , and after complete combustion , nothing but the minutest trace of inorganiic residue remains .
Although strictly a colloid , this acid in the free state passes through a dialyzer , but not so readily as a crystalloid .
When under the form of a compound , its property of dialyzing appears much dimninished .
I could not find that it exerted any action on polarized light* .
Composition of the Colloid Acid .
The acid was found to consist only of carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .
I have not yet succeeded in establishing its ultimate quantitative composition , but it appears to be very poor in hydrogen and rich in carbon .
The atomic weight of the substance was found by the analysis of its insoluble lead-salt , and of its baryta-salt .
I determined the lead in the lead compounds from six different samples of urine ; the average in 100 parts wasOxide of lead .
I. 66-3 Acid ... ... .
33.7 100.0 The analysis of the baryta compound yielded in 100 partsBaryta. .
72-2 Acid.278 100'0 Corresponding to the atomic weights for the lead compound Oxide of lead ... ... . .
111*5 Acid ... ... ... ... ... .
56 7 168-2 for the baryta compound { Aita .
29.5 106 0 It is therefore very obvious that the acid forms two salts , an acid and a neutral salt ; we shall adopt the liumber 28'35 ( or 27 ) for the atomnic weight of the new acid .
The fact of there existing two different compounds of the acid , explains many chemical phenomena exhibited by this substance and its salts .
Compounds of the Colloid Acid of Urine .
The neutral salts are all soluble .
Lead-Salts.-The colloid acid forms two lead-salt--sone which is insoluble in water , and contains two equivalents of acid , and one which is soluble in water , and evidently contains one equivalent of acid .
The insoluble compound is obtained by adding basic acetate of lead to an aqueous solution of the acid or of its neutral salts .
An excess of the basic acetate redissolves the precipitate , which reappears on the addition of dilute nitric acid , to be finally redissolved in an excess of the mineral acid .
The whole of the colloid acid is not , however , precipitated by basic acetate of lead , principally on account of the formation of a certain quantity of neutral acetate of lead , which I found to have the property of dissolving the insoluble colloid lead-salt .
On boiling a mixture of the insoluble lead compound with neutral acetate of lead , acetic acid was given off , a confirmatory proof of the insoluble lead compound being an acid salt ; in this case one equivalent of the colloid acid combines with one equivalent of oxide of lead of the neutral acetate , two equivalents of the neuitral lead-salt of the colloid acid being thus formed , PbO , 2 ( Acid ) + PbO , C4 H 303-2 ( PbO , Acid ) + C4 H3 03 .
This shows that it is not possible to estimate with accuracy the amount of the acid in urine by means of basic acetate of lead .
When the acid is boiled with an excess of hydrated oxide of lead , an insoluble compound is formed ; if the acid be in excess , a compound soluble in hot water , but precipitating on cooling , is obtained : I have not yet determined the composition of these two lead-salts .
Barytaand Lime-Salts.-These salts are easily prepared from the carbonates .
They contain one equivalent of the acid , are soluble in water , and yield precipitates with basic acetate of lead , nitrate of silver , and protonitrate of mercury and tannic acid ; the more concentrated the solution , the more abundant the precipitates .
A very slight precipitate occurs by adding neutral acetate of lead to salts of the acid ; other reagents fail to yield precipitates .
The acid dissolves silver from the carbonate , but I could not neutralize it perfectly by such mneans .
The lime-salt of the acid cannot be entirely decomposed b'y boiling it with carbonate of silver .
Wheni the acid is boiled with black oxide of copper , copper is readily dissolved .
Physiological relations of the Colloid Acid of Urine .
I endeavoured to determine approximately the quantity of the colloid in a given bulk of the urinary secretion , and extracted from 8 litres 4A46 grammes of this substance , which , however , must fall short considerably of the real amount of the acid present .
It may be considered as existing in all probability in the blood , where there is little doubt that it acts an important part in the phenomenia of the secretion of gastric juice , by displacing the hydrochloric acid from chloride of sodium , combining with the sodium ; the soda-salt would remain in the blood , being a colloid compound , while the free hydrochloric acid would find its way into the stomach .
An experiment I performed in connexion with this subject bears out the present view .
The formation of the colloid acid appears to result from some transformation of the colloid non-nitrogenous constituent of the liver known as the glucogenic substance .
When better acquainted with the chemical composition and physiological relations of the colloid acid of urine , I shall be able to give it an appropriate name .

