]\gt ; 2 .
J. JIopkinson on the , but prominently absent from the lymptic nneIs 1 alongside of these vessels , thus supporting the hypothesis they itted , that these cells were merely links in ritive chaill , nob radicIes of the lymphatics , even , as in teudon , the cornea , \amp ; c. , they are connected with the lymphatics .
The paper is illustratedby about a dozen and a ] of camera-lucida vings of specilnens in their possession .
II .
" " Refracve Indiccs of Glass By J. HOPKINSON , D.Sc .
, M.A. Communicated by Professor G. G. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received May 25 , 1877 .
Most of the following determine tions made years ago .
They were not published at once , because the resuIts showed more variation than expccted .
They no made known for two reasons .
First , most of the glasses examined articles of commerce , can be readily ined by itny person experimenting upon the physical properties of glass ; these glasses only vary ithin narrow limits , and their variations be approximately for by a vledge of their density .
Second , most of the prisms having three angles from each of which ions were made , the probable error of the meit is very small , and error of the ture of a blunder is certainly detected .
The form in which to fhese results a matter of much consideration .
A the directly is unsuik able , for the errors of less tbau the errors of curve-drawing would be .
The theory of dispersion is not iu a position to furnish sntisfactory formula .
The most frequently used empiricnl foris , here is -length of the ray to lefers .
But to bring fhis ithin errors of obscl.)tion it is necessary to include nppenrs to be { lJnost as inlport{nt ferm .
here two of orfance in the selection of an empi rical : first , ) nccurntely represent the facfs the use of the fcwest } rarv pmeters ; sccolld , it must be ient for the purposes the ) useful .
In he most is nalllC for the tite which is the refrncindcx .
In the paper line between the inous and ehemical rilvs , is sses , , Soft ] ecfed on ccount of goo 1 of ults , and th ) of eir tire fttined for is in Refracve Indicps of Glass .
) ] be the focal distaIlce of lens for live component lenses , then the } ] for the If be two the tion the effecf of the ray to be denoted does not senchange nlue of the coefficient , this may be a of the irrationnlity of the Let there be three , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) ; no tiou lrco dispersiou of finife focal length call be made with xsses if , if the chromatic berration of ( 1 ) is the as at of ( 3 ) ( 1 ) , then of ( 3 ) has also the SiLme , and the ree nsses satisfy the bove conditiou .
Prof. Stokes hns expressed the characfer of glasses the anner:\mdash ; Let a prism of small nugle be fectly a by isms of ndard gngles i takeu as , then iation of ray , a\ldquo ; b\ldquo ; If ratio is , but if it is ; lct the augle be coml ) let Stion opticid ) of the has a in the close espondcncc b the of ?
and be povcrs of component lellbes of nd also } pidily ) } ith . .
The nethod dopted iu this pnper is ement in the fact at slDglo tandard glass is alone reqnired .
tions vere m ith a ) ) ) nnce Bros. \amp ; Co. Mr. Howard Grubb .
The ] ) collimator inches ; the cirrle is ] neter , to 10 ' , by two erniers to 10 The of he .
G ) , G. 292 Dr. J. Hopkinson on the is the most refrangible of the group of magnesium lines , ( G ) hydrogen line near G. The method of smoothing the results by the aid of each other has been first , to calculate , and from the mean values of for the lines ; second , to calculate lues of from the fol.mula obtained ; to plot on paper the differences between and calculated , and to draw a free-hand curve among the points , and then } ersely to take for each line from the curve .
It appeared desirable to the ndard values of , which are the means of those for , Soft Crown , Light Flint , Dense Flint , in terms of .
In the following Table column I. gives , the wave-length in 10-4 centims. ; II .
the values of ; III .
the standard vahles of ; IV .
the values of calculated from , whero ; .
the differences of III .
and .
; .
the val of from the extended formula , ; .
The of .
and Refractive Indices of Glass .
293 is interesting to remark that the curve representing in terms of a point of inflexion between and D. An examination of the iations from calculation for several glasses shows that probably all gsses exhibit a similar point of inflexio1l , the flints lower in the 8 ctrum or in the ultra red , the nearel to the middle of 1 visible spectrtlm .
This be of importance in ths theory of ( lpersion when detailed theory becomes possible ; at least it is imtant as unsafe it would be to calculate for very long or ultra- waves from any formula of three terms .
ollo ) Tables of results need little or no further explanation : , first line the l.efractive indices finally obtained and regarded as probable , the second line the values from the formula of terms the last gives the mean of the actual obserYations .
Hard Crown.\mdash ; Two specimens this glass were examined .
( A prism from the three angles of which determinations obtained , density Dr. J. on the .
A prism ith angles of about , density The first line gives the observed indices , and the second the differences from the most probable values of Soft .\mdash ; The has three angles from hirh the mean is Titano-sihcic glass as made on the suggestio1l of Professor Stokes in the hope of obtainiug a glass of good hich Refractive Inclices of Glass .
perfectly hromat i a flint .
The detel mtions on ; density \mdash ; \mdash ; B. D. St probable vnlne of ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) , ) .
of densit .
[ ost ble alue of formula. .
\mdash ; \mdash ; Dr. J. Hopkinson on the [ June 14 Flinf Glass.\mdash ; Determinations made from three angles , density Dense Flint.tions from three angles , density 1877 .
] Refractive Indices of Glass .
Extra Dense Flint .
tions from only one angle , density E.vtra tions from Tho following Table ives the valuo of for glass wheu biued ith standard .
It to is to choose even the glasses ordin , rily used .

