1878 .
] On the Poisonous Principle of Ureqhites Suberecta .
309 fluting in the ultra-violet are absolute prolongations of a fine series of Fraunhofer lines in which the wonderful rhythm of the elements of the flutings is fully retained .
Angstrom has already shown that the true carbon lines which we get when a coil and jar are employed are not reversed in the spectrum of the sun .
I have already shown that the calcium spectrum in the sun is the spectrum of the spark , and not of the arc .
The carbon vapour then exists not only in a more complicated molecular condition ( as is evinced by the flutings ) than the metallic vapours in the sun 's atmosphere , but at a lower temperature .
It must , therefore , exist above the , that is , in a region of lower temperature .
Lower pressure is also indicated by the feeble reversal .
The idea I put forward some time ago that the outer atmosphere of the sun ( and possibly the composition of the outer planets ) is more metalloidal than metallic is strengthened by this observation .
V. " On the Physiological Action of the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
" By JAMES JOHN BOWREY , F.C.S. , M.I.C. , Analytical Chemist to the Government of Jamaica .
Communicated by Professor A. W. Williamson , Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society .
Received March 22 , 1878 .
Several species of Echites are common in Jamaica , and certain of them , known as " nightshades , " or " Savana flowers , " are reputed to be very poisonous .
In this paper I shall confine myself to a species distinguished as the yellow flowered nightshade , and which Professor Daniel Oliver has identified as Urechites , Muell .
Arg .
{ Echites Neriandra , Griseb.f This plant is well known to be exceedingly poisonous ; frequently when I have been examining a sprig plucked at the road side a passing negro has warned me to be careful as it was very dangerous .
My attention was specially directed to it by the fact that it is supposed to have been the chief poison used by Obeah men in the time of slavery .
The most wonderful tales are current of the power of these men , and it is even stated that they could so administer their poisons as to kill immediately or after the lapse of days or weeks .
Sloane states , " Ho animal will meddle with this herb , and .
two drams of the expressed juice killed a dog in eight minutes , but it may be so ordered as to kill a person in many days , months , or years .
" This statement I certainly think exaggerated , but my experiments show that it has some considerable foundation in fact .
Sloane further states , " Two or three spoonfuls of the juice purge young persons upwards and downwards , bringing away worms .
The milk , outwardly 310 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 , applied , takes away warts , and cures ringworms and freckles .
" He also gives the following as the symptoms occurring in the case of a medical man to whom a negress was believed to have given portions of this plant , violent griping , inclination to vomit , loss of appetite , small convulsions in various parts of the body , hectic fever , and continued wasting of flesh .
Under treatment a fatal result was prevented , but some considerable time passed before the convulsive symptoms left the patient .
The flowers , and all the green parts of the plant , are very bitter and acrid , so strong and disagreeable is the taste that I think it almost impossible that an adult could ignorantly take a fatal dose of the fresh plant ; both Sloaiie and Gosse , however , give instances in which there was good reason to think death was caused by rum impregnated with the poisonous principle , a plug of the leaves having been used as a stopper .
The dry leaves may be chewed for some little time before their bitterness is observed .
Cattle are sometimes poisoned by eating the dry leaves when grazing , the plant having been cut down and carelessly left in the pasture when it was cleaned .
The symptoms described to me as occurring in cattle poisoned by Ureehitee suberecta agree with those I have observed in animals to which the poisonous principles have been given in the laboratory .
Four substances having toxic properties have been obtained , viz.:\#151 ; Crude principle , a resinous body extracted from the leaves by Stas 's process , under the supposition that they contained an alkaloid .
This substance may be considered to be a mixture of all the active principles of the plant with a small proportion of inactive matter .
Urechitoxin , a crystallizable body of definite composition .
Amorphous urechitoxin , an uncrystallizable form of urechitoxin , which has not been obtained perfectly pure , but which resembles the crystallizable substance in many respects .
Urechitin , a crystallizable substance of definite composition , which constitutes the great proportion of the poison present in unchanged JJrechites suberecta leaves .
The substances enumerated above are glncosides ; for further information respecting their preparation and chemical properties the reader is referred to a paper read before the Chemical Society ( Journ. Chem. Soc. , xxxiii , p. 252 ) .
The effect of the crude principle was tried on mice and cats with the results now to be detailed .
Effect on Mice , given by Mouth .
Experiment I. A little of the emulsion of the crude poison was given to a mouse ; immediately on swallowing it the animal lost all power of looomotion , and convulsive movements of the muscles came on , the whole hind1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle o/ Urechites Suberecta .
311 quarters moving together .
This was over in about a minute , but was succeeded by twitching of the limbs , continuing for about two minutes , after which all motion ceased , and the mouse was dead three minutes after the poison was placed in its throat .
Experiment II .
Gave a smaller dose of the emulsion than that employed in Experiment I to two mice ; for some time no effect was visible .
In from fifteen to thirty minutes there appeared convulsive movements of the abdomen , as if the animal would vomit ; it then jumped about for a few seconds , fell over on its side deprived of all power of locomotion , its muscles twitched for a minute or two , and death followed .
Experiment III .
A little of the crude poison , in a form like very thick treacle , was put in the mouth of a mouse ; from its treacly condition the poison could not be spat out by the animal .
For half an hour no effect was noticed ; then there appeared to be disinclination to move , which increased until motion was plainly impossible , the mouse falling over on its side and dying ninety minutes after the poison was put in its mouth .
The other symptoms noted were apparent attempts to vomit , seeming difficulty in breathing , and shortly before death convulsive gaspings for air .
Experiment IV .
A dose of the poison in the same state as that used in Experiment III , but in quantity much less , was given to a mouse ; for an hour or two the animal appeared to be unaffected ; it then became less active .
Next day it would hardly move even when touched , but it ate well .
It was not seen on the third and fourth days , but was well provided with food and water .
On the morning of the fifth day it seemed better than on the evening of the second day , but as the day passed on it got worse , being very indisposed to move , and when it did clinging to the ground as if afraid of falling over .
When first seen on the morning of the sixth day it could hardly move , and as the morning passed on it completely lost all power of locomotion , and died quietly just five full days after it had received the poison .
Immediately before death the penis became erected , and semen was emitted .
The most marked symptom in these four experiments was loss of power of locomotion , the paralysis coming on very gradually when the dose was smallest ; when the poison quickly proved fatal , convulsions preceded death .
Effect on a Kitten , given by Mouth .
Experiment V. 9.7 a.m. Attempted to give -fagrain of the crude poison in the form 312 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. It .
of an emulsion to a fine healthy kitten weighing about 2 lbs. The effect on the mouth and fauces was so immediate that but a small fraction of the dose was swallowed , the instantaneous choking causing the discharge of most of the emulsion , while the large quantity of frothy saliva which directly began to flow must have washed the mouth out completely .
In two or three minutes the animal appeared to be trying to vomit , but possibly it was merely choking up the thick saliva .
9.26 a.m. Passed ordinary faeces .
9.28 a.m. Vomited violently ; this repeated at 9.37 and 9.43 .
Up to this time it kept on its legs , now and then moving about slowly ; it appeared very disinclined to move , yet impelled to do so .
9.45 a.m. Lay down and , except when vomiting or roused , remained lying down as if sleeping till three o'clock .
During the latter part of the time , when disturbed , it would walk a few steps , but was in great danger of falling over on its side .
10.8 A.M. Convulsive vomiting of a thick greenish-yellow liquid , repeated at 10.33 ; 11.5 ; 11.50 a.m. , and 12.20 , and 1.20 p.m. Each time the vomiting occurred after the kitten had been disturbed , or had itself moved a few steps ; it screamed during each vomiting , and even during an attempt to vomit .
At 3 o'clock in the afternoon it walked out of the laboratory into the office , and there went to sleep until removed to my lodgings ; it slept all the evening and night , and was still sleepy next morning .
All food and drink were refused on the day of administration ; next morning it tried to eat a morsel of meat , but did not swallow any of it ; later in the day it drank some milk ; after this it recovered rapidly .
The poison was given on an empty stomach .
There were altogether ten actual or attempted vomitings , nine of which occurred within the first four and a half hours .
Two hours after the administration it seemed to be in a dying state , after this time it gradually improved ; very likely had it been disturbed when in its weakest condition , convulsions would have come on , and death would have been the result .
Effect Ofi a Kitten^ given subcutaneously .
Experiment VI .
12.45 \gt ; p.m. Injected ^ c , ub .
centim. of solution of the erude poison in 40 pgr gent , spirit under the skin of neck of a kitten weighing 1^ lbs. The \ cub. centim. of solution contained gr. , i.e. , mgms .
of the poison .
12.53 p.m. Vomited .
12.56 , , Vomited violently .
Unsteady on its legs ; afraid to 1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
313 move , and when it did so was in danger of falling over on its side .
It walked as if drunk .
1.0 p.m. Passed urine and faeces .
Vomited .
It was now very restless , screamed continually , and had general convulsive tremors .
Wagging its tail .
Soon it became quiet , and appeared very sleepy , hut in a minute or two convulsions of a violent character came on , the pupils dilating in the fit , but contracting as it passed off .
1.15 p.m. A second attack of convulsions came on in which the animal died .
The pupil of each eye was so enlarged that no iris could he seen , nor was any visible thirty minutes after death .
Rigor mortis not perceptible till an hour after death ; in two hours it was marked .
The body was opened in the afternoon on which the animal died ; the only special appearances noted were the very distended state of the stomach , and the tenseness of its walls , the tense wiry condition of the intestines , which were so contracted that a transverse section appeared solid , and the gorged state of the auricles and right ventricle , the left ventricle being nearly empty .
" Effect of Ur This substance is very bitter and acrid , and produces a singular sensation on the tongue and lips , as if they were swollen and blistered ; no visible change is really produced , but so vivid is the sensation that it is almost impossible to persuade oneself that the tongue is of its usual size , and the lips unblistered .
The tingling lasts for many hours .
Urechitoxin is powerfully sternutatory , the least particle introduced into the nostrils causing violent fits of sneezing , accompanied with a choky sensation at the back of the throat .
Experiments have been made on mice , cats , and one dog , with this poison , and as I believe it to be the typical active principle of the plant\#151 ; if , indeed , not the active principle , urechitin being in all probability a compound containing it\#151 ; more experiments have been made with it than with the other forms of the poison .
Effect on Mice , given " by Mouth .
Experiment VII .
Administered 2*5 mgms .
, i.e. , nearly gr. of pure hydrated urechitoxin , dissolved in cub. centim. of spirit ( 50 per cent. ) , to a mouse , passing the solution well down its throat .
It was dead before I could put it out of my hand .
Administered 1 mgm .
, i.e. , less than gr. of the same urechitoxin in tV cub. centim. of spirit ( 30 per cent. ) , to a mouse in a similar manner , it gave but one or two twitches after being put out of the hand and was dead .
These mice were opened , their stomachs found empty , about a quarter drop of liquid squeezed from each and separately tested gave the urechitoxin colour reaction distinctly .
314 Mr. J , J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 Experiment VIII .
Tried to give a mouse | mgm .
, i.e. , nearly T|T gr. pure hydrated urechitoxin , dissolved in cub. centim. of spirit ( 30 per cent. ) , but part was swallowed , certainly not more than -g-L gr. In two hours the animal was sluggish , clinging to the ground as if afraid of falling over on its side .
In six hours so paralysed as to be unable to govern its movements , tumbling over if it tried to move from one spot to another , its limbs trembling much , and its breathing difficult and convulsive .
Next morning , nineteen hours after the poison had been given , the mouse was found dead and stiff .
These mice were affected exactly as were those to which the crude poison was administered .
The effects , however , appeared much more quickly , no doubt because the urechitoxin was given as a perfect solution .
Effects of small repeated doses of Urechitoxin ( by the ) on ) Cats .
Experiment IX .
To a healthy kitten , weighing about 2 lbs. , gr. , i.e. , nearly l\#163 ; mgms .
of pure hydrated urechitoxin was given .
The poison was dissolved in a drop of spirit which was allowed to fall into the back of the kitten 's mouth .
Frothy saliva began to flow directly , the discharge continuing for nearly forty minutes .
I think some of the poison must have been got rid of in the saliva .
No other effect followed .
Next day the dose was repeated with the same effect ; after the flow of saliva had ceased it ate , but about three hours after the administration of the second dose the animal was seized with strong convulsions , crying out spasmodically and gasping for breath .
It repeatedly passed urine , also a little faeces , and died in the convulsions .
Experiment X. Administered yxo g1*- ?
i.e.\#187 ; nearly 0*26 mgms , .
pure hydrated urechitoxin to a kitten weighing about 2 lbs. The poison was given in one drop of spirit ( 50 per cent. ) , and was allowed to fall into the throat of the animal .
The dose was repeated daily for the four succeeding days , then a day missed ; after which the dose was given twice more .
In all , seven doses were administered in eight days ; during this time the kitten was- dull , and had but little appetite .
It was found dead within an hour of the exhibition of the last dose , and unfortunately was not seen alive after the poison was given .
The total quantity of ppison given was gr. , rather less than 2 mgms .
On opening the kitten a remarkable absence of fat was observed , the tissues were pale , the lungs almost colourless , and the tongue very white .
The large arteries were empty , the large veins gorged with 1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle o/ Urechites Suberecta .
315 blood , the left ventricle quite empty , the right ventricle and the auricles were very full , in each auricle was a clot , that in the right very fibrinous and apparently growing from its walls .
The liver was normal , the gall-bladder very full , the bile tinging the surrounding tissues .
The stomach distended with gas , otherwise empty , its walls thick and stiff , the intestines down to the appendix thick and stiff , indeed almost wiry , empty , and contracted , so as to have the appearance of a solid cylinder more than that of a tube on being cut through transversely .
This condition was not observable below the appendix , the lower part of the large intestines contained much faecal matter .
The bladder was empty , the kidneys apparently normal , their external blood-vessels beautifully injected .
The body was opened three and a half hours after death .
Experiment XI .
In this experiment gr. , i.e. , 0T3 mgm .
of pure hydrated urechitoxin , in one drop of spirit ( 40 per cent. ) , was administered to a kitten on each of the dates noted below .
February 3rd.\#151 ; First dose given .
No effect noticed .
Appetite good .
Weight 2 lbs. 10 ozs .
February 4th.\#151 ; No effect .
Appetite good .
February 5th , 6th , 7th.\#151 ; Saliva flowed for a short time ; vomited after dose .
Appetite good .
February 8th , 10th , 11th.\#151 ; The administration of each dose was followed by retching .
Appetite good .
Weight now 2 lbs. 8 ozs .
February 12th and 13th.\#151 ; No vomiting .
February 14th , 15th , 17th.\#151 ; Violent vomiting in a few minutes .
Appetite still fairly good .
Weight from 2 lbs. 7 ozs .
to 2 lbs. 9 ozs .
February 18th and 19th.\#151 ; Did not vomit nor care to eat .
Weight fell on the 19th to 2 lbs. 6 ozs .
February 20th.\#151 ; The last dose given .
No vomiting .
At first refused to eat , but eight hours after receiving the poison it ate a little .
Weight 2 lbs. 5-^ ozs .
Next morning it was found dead ; it had evidently died in convulsions .
Its dead weight was 2 lbs. 4\#163 ; ozs .
The pupils of the eyes were so enlarged as to reduce the irises to mere circular lines ; this appearance I have noticed in every cat killed by urechitoxin .
The kitten was in good condition ; on opening it a large quantity of fat was found surrounding the internal organs , otherwise the appearances were similar to those noted in Experiment X. The weight was taken each day before food was given to the animal , and the poison was administered by allowing the drop of spirit containing it to fall into the throat of the kitten immediately after it had been weighed .
It was then returned to its cage , and food speedily supplied to it .
T0L .
xxvii .
T 316 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 , Experiment XII .
This was an experiment similar to Experiment XI , excepting that hut one half the quantity of hydrated nrechitoxin was given daily , viz. , xoVs l-G-i 0'065 mgm .
The kitten weighed 2 lbs. 2 ozs .
February 3rd.\#151 ; First dose given , repeated on the 4th , 5th , 6th , 7th , 8th , 10th , 11th , 12th , 13th , 14th , without any visible effect .
Weight varying from 2 lbs. to 2 lbs. 2 ozs .
Appetite good .
February 15th , 17th , 18th , 19th , 20th.\#151 ; The kitten during this time was dull but still ate fairly .
Its weight declined to 1 lb. 15 ozs .
, one morning being 1 lb. 13 ozs .
Though it ate , its appetite was fast failing .
February 21st.\#151 ; No appetite .
Very dull .
Weight 1 lb. 14^ ozs .
February 22nd.\#151 ; Refused food entirely .
Weight 1 lb. 13 ozs .
Died in convulsions in the evening ; it had become very thin .
It was not opened .
Exp. XI.\#151 ; Each dose gr. Given 16 in 18 days .
Total weight given gr. = 2'1 mgm .
Death on 18th day .
Weight on 1st day 2 lbs. 10 ozs .
, on 18th day 2 lbs. 5| ozs .
Exp. XII.\#151 ; Each dose nrooSr- Given 18 in 20 days .
Total weight given nearly TXT gr. = 1*2 mgm .
Death on the 20th day .
Weight on 1st day 2 lbs. 2 ozs .
, on 20th day 1 lb. 13 ozs .
Experiment XIII .
In this experiment the poison was given in a manner more likely to ensure the swallowing of each dose completely , and also at the same time to prevent its action on the fauces .
A solution of pure hydrated urechitoxin was prepared containing gr. of the poison in each cub. centim. , strong spirit being used as the solvent .
A number of bits of filtering paper\#151 ; each about f-inch square\#151 ; were suspended on pins .
Each of these pieces of paper received -jw cub. centim. of the spirit solution delivered from an accurately graduated pipette ; when the spirit had completely evaporated , and the squares were dry , they were placed in a stoppered bottle .
To give the dose , a square of paper was cut into shreds and mixed with a little butter\#151 ; the grease appeared to prevent the cat perceiving the bitter taste of the poison\#151 ; and placed in a bit of meat , which was then given to the animal .
The cat was liberally fed once every day about 11 a.m. , its weight being taken first , and the poison given immediately before the day 's food was put in its cage .
I may remark that plenty of exercise was allowed to all the animals experimented on , the cats having the run of large premises during the day , their cages being closed at night only .
Red cat weighing 5 lbs. 4 ozs .
Received first dose July 3rd .
Repeated on July 5th , 6th , 7th , 8th , 9th and 10th , during which time its weight was constant .
1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
317 July 12th , 14th , 15th , 16th , during which time its weight fell to 5 lbs. For the last few days it was rather dull and inactive , and lost its appetite .
At 10 a.m. , on July 17th , there was nothing to attract notice in its appearance ; but at 11 o'clock it was seized with convulsions , passed faeces involuntarily ; and after the convulsions passed off it lay on its side breathing heavily from the abdomen till about 1 p.m. , when it died in a second attack of convulsions .
Its bladder was found distended with urine , the stomach and intestines empty and tense , the latter almost wiry .
Gall-bladder full , liver very dark and full of blood .
All the veins full of dark blood , which coagulated very quickly .
Lungs pale .
Heart , right side gorged with dark blood , left side contained a little redder blood , but not fully aerated .
Arteries collapsed , and nearly empty .
Pupils distended so as almost to obliterate iris .
Tongue bluish immediately after death .
Experiment XIY .
A white cat , weighing 6 lbs. at the beginning of the experiment , was treated exactly as the one in Experiment XIII , a square of paper containing -jwy gr- urechitoxin being given to it every week day ( with one exception ) for eleven weeks .
Its weight gradually increased , so that it weighed lbs. at the end of that time .
No effect was apparent up to the day on which it received the last dose .
In the morning it was well and cheerful , at 1 p.m. it was discovered very ill , possibly it had been attacked by convulsions .
However , it took the dose of poison , and ate a little food .
Next day it seemed well , no poison was given to it .
The day after it died about 10 a.m. ; it was not seen to die , but it presented the appearances seen in other cats poisoned with urechitoxin .
There had been a little purging shortly before death .
Experiment XV .
A kitten , weighing 1^ lbs. , was treated in the same manner as the cats in Experiments XIII and XIV , a square of poisoned paper being given to it every week day for nearly four weeks , a total of 22 doses being administered .
For the first three weeks no effect was apparent and its weight increased to 2 lbs. ; during the last week it appeared dull and did not care for its food , its weight falling to l^r lbs. There was nothing calling for special note in its mode of death or in the appearances subsequently observed .
Exp. XIII .
Dose t\amp ; tss gr. , 11 given , total weight of poison exhibited -fa gr. = 071 mgm .
Weight of cat 5^ lbs. , fell to 5 lbs. y 2 318 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 , Death one day after last dose , which was given fourteen days after the first one .
Exp. XIV .
Dosegr .
, 65 given , total weight of poison given TV gr. = 4'2 mgms .
Weight of cat 6 lbs. , rose to lbs. Death nearly two days after last dose , which was given eleven weeks after the first one .
Exp. XV .
Dose gr. , 22 given , total weight of poison exhibited Ar gr-\gt ; = 1'42 mgm .
Weight of kitten If lbs. , fell to If lbs. Death two days after last dose , which was given twenty-six days after the first one .
Three other cats were experimented on in a similar manner , two of them receiving about 100 squares each , and the other about 40 up to the time when the experiments were discontinued .
Except very occasional vomiting these cats appeared in perfect health ; none of them lost weight , while one gained considerably .
Only a portion of the squares of poisoned paper were taken from the same lot as those used in Experiments XIII , XIV , and XV , most of them were from a new batch prepared from a solution which had been kept for a long time .
I have found that weak solutions are apt in time to lose their bitterness , indeed , the papers prepared from this old solution had but a very slight bitter taste ; this test , however , was not applied until the absence of effect on the cats led me to suspect that something was wrong .
In all probability , for the greater part of the time , these three cats were receiving but a fraction of the dose intended .
Effect of Urechitoxin on a Dog , given by Mouth .
Experiment XVI .
One gr. , i.e. , 65 mgms .
of crystallized hydrated urechitoxin , was put on a piece of meat , another piece laid over it and the two bits of meat lightly tied together with a piece of cotton and given to a medium- .
sized dog ; no effect followed for an hour , then the animal vomited four times in quick succession , the meat containing the urechitoxin was found in the vomit , the quantity of poison apparently undiminished , i one edge of the layer of poison , however , was free , i.e. , uncovered by j meat , and must have been in contact with the juices of the stomach .
The dog was watched for an hour and a-half after the vomiting was over , during which time it slept naturally , showing no ill effects what- , ever .
It was then left for the night , with food and water at its side , , in the full expectation of finding it quite well in the morning ; however , it was discovered dead and cold , the food and drink untouched .
The internal organs were found to be congested , all the cavities of the heart contained much thick black blood , the auricles being gorged .
1 There were marks of irritation on the inner face of the stomach .
The brain was normal .
.878 .
] the Poisonous Principle o/ Urechites Suberecta .
319 Effect of a large dose on Gats , subcutaneously injected .
Experiment XVII .
Injected \#163 ; gr. , i.e. , 8'1 mgm .
pare hydrated urechitoxin , dissolved a ^ cub. centim. ( 40 per cent. ) spirit , under the skin of neck of t strong full grown cat .
Eor ten minutes nothing particular was LOticed , unless , indeed , the animal was slightly uneasy and indisposed 0 move ; at the end of this time it became very uneasy , mewing a good leal .
When thirteen minutes had elapsed the cat vomited violently aid then passed faeces .
During the next twenty minutes it vomited ery violently three times and passed faeces and urine involuntarily , he breathing also became very hurried , more than 100 respirations \gt ; er minute .
Very unwilling to move , seemed giddy , tail twitching ; wo or three times , however , the animal showed unexpected strength , getting up and walking a few steps .
About thirty-five minutes after he injection most violent convulsions came on and death took place hirty-seven minutes after the poison had been injected .
When the convulsions came on the pupils enlarged so as to reduce the irises to nere circular lines , this enlargement remained for a considerable time tfter death , then the irises began slowly to contract .
1 The appearances noted on opening the animal were the same as hose usually seen in other cats poisoned by urechitoxin .
The stomach contained about a teaspoonful of white frothy liquid and was very uuch distended with gas .
The intestines were remarkably tense and viry , and showed frequent knots in their course , like the knots of a )amboo cane but much more exaggerated .
Experiment XVIII .
Injected gr. pure hydrated urechitoxin , dissolved in spirit , under kin of neck of a half-grown kitten , immediately afterwards gave it a nouse which it caught and ate .
In five minutes from time of injec-ion vomiting came on and the mouse was ejected .
The kitten now t'ery uneasy , convulsive twitchings appeared , speedily followed by itrong convulsions , in which it died within eight minutes of the injection .
It was opened directly , the stomach was loaded with food and he colon with faeces .
The heart , which was very distended , was not ; ut into ; it contracted considerably as it cooled .
The other appearances were similar to those noted in other experiments .
Experiment XVIIIa .
| In this case a quantity of urechitoxin was injected sufficient to Jrove fatal very speedily .
Experiments XVIII and XVIIIa were i performed simply in order that some medical friends might see the K*\#169 ; at activity of the poison , and I mention No. X Villa here , for the riake of the following extract from my note book .
" The cat was 820 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 , opened immediately after death , no irritability of the heart was noticeable on pricking that organ ; this want of irritability was observed on subsequent occasions .
" Experiment XIX , Injected ^ gr. = 3'2 mgms .
pure hydrated urechitoxin , under the skin of neck of a full grown cat .
The poison was in solution in spirit .
10.35 a.m. Poison injected .
10.50 " Faeces passed .
10.53 , , - Vomited violently .
10.54 " Do .
10.59 " Do .
merely bringing up a little frothy liquid .
11.2 " Do .
do .
do .
11.7 " Do .
do .
do .
11.12 " Vomited violently , merely bringing up a little frothy liquid ; it now appeared sleepy .
11.22 a.m. Again vomited frothy liquid , now very sleepy .
11.27 " Passed urine .
11.30 " Vomited violently and immediately lay down again .
11.40 " Momentary convulsions .
11.46 " Do .
do .
11.48 " Very violent convulsions accompanied with cries .
During the fit life became extinct , 1 hour and 13 minutes after the injection of the poison .
At 11.10 o'clock a mouse was put with the cat , which noticed but did* not attempt to catch it .
In each of these experiments on the action of large doses , the first effect was to cause the animal to vomit , which , in Experiment XVIII , was very speedily followed by convulsions and death , but , in Experiments XVII and XIX , the vomiting occurred repeatedly , urine and faeces were passed , and there was a marked disinclination to muscular exertion before the final convulsions came on and life became extinct .
:\#166 ; Effect on Gats of very small doses , subcutaneously injected .
Experiment XX .
Injected gr. , \#151 ; 0'65 mgm .
, pure hydrated alpha echitoxin , dissolved in 1 cub. centim. ( 40 per cent. ) spirit , under the skin of neck of a small full grown cat , weighing 3^ lbs. Neither food nor drink was taken by the cat after the injection .
10.50 a.m. Poison injected , a little appeared to escape from the wound on withdrawing the syringe .
11.10 a.m. Uneasy , licking lips , vomited .
11.20 " Do .
do .
11.35 " Do .
do .
11.50 " Do .
do .
1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
321 12.0 o'clock .
Attempted repeatedly to vomit , but brought up aothing .
12.20 p.m. Attempted repeatedly to vomit , but brought up nothing , she retching not so violent ; up to this time had been restless , now seemed fatigued and disposed to lie down .
12.35 p.m. Again ineffectually tried to vomit , continuing its efforts for five minutes .
12.45 p.m. Vomited violently a yellow frothy liquid .
I. 45 , , Passed urine , tried to vomit , appeared sleepy .
Dribbled much from its mouth .
2.20 , 3.20 , and 4.20 .
Vomited violently a yellow frothy liquid .
This vomiting was repeated three times between 4.20 and 11 o'clock p.m. , when it was last seen alive .
At 5 o'clock next morning it was found dead , stiff , and cold .
It had evidently died in convulsions , the pupils were so expanded as to almost obliterate the irises .
Death must have occurred within sixteen hours of the injection .
On being opened , a generally congested state of the vessels of the viscera and brain was found , the intestines , as usual , tense , and the auricles and right ventricle of the heart gorged with blood , while the left ventricle contained but very little .
Between two and three hours after the injection a mouse was put with the cat , it immediately caught and killed it , but neither played with nor ate it .
Experiment XXI .
Injection of gr. , = 1'3 mgm .
, pure hydrated urechitoxin , followed twenty-four hours afterwards by a second injection of -j^g- gr. of the same sample of poison .
The cat used was a very strong one , weighing 6 lbs. 6 ozs .
, it was last fed fourteen hours before the first injection .
10.20 a.m. Injected gr. urechitoxin , dissolved in \ cub. centim. ( 40 per cent. ) spirit , under skin of neck .
10.35 a.m. Very restless , seemed to want to pass faeces and urine .
10.40 " Passed faeces .
II .
6 , , Passed urine .
11.15 " Vomited violently , bringing up partly digested food .
I Panting much as if very hot .
The usual licking of lips preceded the 1 vomiting , after which the cat appeared much easier .
11.17 a.m. Passed faeces .
11.20 " Again panting , lying down extended , respirations over I 100 per minute and irregular .
11.25 a.m. Vomited much partly digested food , afterwards became very restless , still panting .
11.30 a.m. Lay down extended , panting , pupils appeared dilated , but r were quite sensitive to light .
Soon got up , restless again .
322 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action [ Apr. 11 11.45 a.m. Vomited twice , brought up very little .
Respirations over 120 per minute and irregular .
Put a mouse in the cage ; the cat noticed and touched it , and when it fled , started after it , but did not follow it ; remained looking at , but did not attempt to catch it .
The mouse was removed , when the cat lay down and remained lying down from 11.50 to 12.15 o'clock .
Respirations varying from 100 to 90 per minute , irregular in both rate and intensity , but becoming less violent and rapid .
12.15 p.m. Got up , restless , crying , licking lips till 12.17 " Vomited violently a little frothy liquid .
Soon lay down again .
12.30 P.M. Respirations 104 per minute , but not so strong or irre- !
gular as before .
Heart beating 150 per minute .
Beats strong .
12.40 p.m. Got up and walked slowly about the laboratory , seemed several times as if it wanted to jump up on window-ledges , \amp ; c. , but did not attempt to do so .
On being put back in the cage it struggled to get out for some ten minutes , then lay down as if asleep , but not really so .
2.0 P.M. Still lying down .
Respirations 24 per minute .
Put a mouse in the cage ; the cat looked at it , but did not move .
3.20 p.m. Respirations 24 per minute ; the cat had a very sleepy look .
A little after this it sat up and appeared as if it would vomit , but did not do so .
How very sluggish , and remained so , neither vomiting or passing faeces or urine till 10.30 next morning , when its respirations were irregular and 45 per minute ; the heart-beats were also irregular and over 110 per minute .
It refused to eat , and had taken nothing , except possibly some water , from the time when the poison was injected .
Second day.\#151 ; 10.38 a.m. Injected gr. urechitoxin in ^ cub. centim. 40 per cent , spirit under skin of neck .
10.43 A.M. Passed urine .
11.0 , , After licking lips , vomited a little yellow frothy liquid .
1 11.25 " Do .
do .
do .
11.43 " Do .
do .
white do .
12.5 p.m. Passed hard faeces .
12.25 p.m. After licking lips , vomited a little yellow frothy liquid .
1.30 .
, Do .
do .
white do .
During the rest of the day remained in a very dull state , looking very ill .
Would have nothing to do with a mouse .
Took no food , but late in the day just tasted some milk .
Passed urine once in the evening .
Third day.\#151 ; 10.0 a.m. Weight 5 lbs. 14 ozs .
During this day it looked rather better , but still very dull .
Tasted milk , passed urine twice , would have nothing to do with a mouse , remained quite still till 4.30 p.m. Vomited white frothy liquid .
Took no other food than the one taste of milk .
Passed urine during the night .
1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
323 Fourth day.\#151 ; 7.0 a.m. Vomited twice , bringing up much white frothy liquid .
Afterwards tasted some milk\#151 ; drank no appreciable quantity .
10.30 a.m. Vomited a quantity of liquid , looking like dilute milk .
11 30 Would have nothing to do with a mouse .
Lay down almost wherever it was placed , and even if it wanted to reach another spot , it moved but a few steps , trembling and but half-raised on its legs , in danger , of falling over on its side .
It would lie down without reaching the desired place , never moving two feet at one time .
Weight 5 lbs. 11 ozs .
It gradually got worse , twitching of the ears , and indeed whole head , now occurred on its being forced to make the slightest movement .
The pupils very contracted , and not sensitive to light .
I think , however , that if the cat 's attention could have been aroused they would have expanded and proved sensitive .
2.0 p.m. The cat now unable to keep on its feet ; even when placed upon them it sank on to the ground without any attempt to take up a restful or easy position .
Saliva flowing from its mouth .
3.0 p.m. to 3.10 p.m. While being moved convulsions , accompanied with cries , came on , followed by vomiting and a second attack of convulsions , in which it died .
Weight now 5 lbs. 10 ozs .
The eyes presented the usual enlarged pupils .
The body was immediately opened .
Stomach inflated , contained a little yellow mucus .
Intestines contracted .
Colon contained a little hard faeces .
Bladder contained a few drops of urine .
Liver and kidneys appeared normal , the veins of latter beautifully injected .
Lungs pink with a tinge of yellow , became cream-coloured as they cooled .
Heart filled .
Pericardium , right ventricle full ; on cutting into it some thick dark blood flowed , but a mass of coagulated blood remained in it ; left ventricle contained a little red blood , which did not coagulate until it was exposed to the air .
External vessels of brain congested ; no blood-points were seen in its substance on cutting into it .
Death took place 77 hours after the first injection and 53 hours after the second .
The total weight of poison injected was xfcy gr. , i.e.y nearly 2 mgms .
, equivalent to one-and-a-half millionth part of the weight of the cat .
Experiment XXII .
Injected gr. pure hydrated urechitoxin , dissolved in spirit , under skin of neck of a cat weighing 4 lbs. 101 ozs .
The animal was last fed 16 hours before the injection .
10.50 a.m. Poison injected .
After it was liberated the animal lay down , and remained so till 11.25 a.m. When it began to lick its lips , but the uneasiness passed off , and only occasionally did it give a lick , still lying down .
11.55 a.m. Got up uneasy , mewing , licking lips .
12 o'clock .
Vomited frothy liquid .
324 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 12.12 p.m. Passed fasces consciously .
A freshly killed mouse was given to it ; it seized it , but laid it down again almost immediately , and would not notice it afterwards .
Pood , even milV ; refused .
1.0 p.m. Heart-beats barely perceptible .
1.45 " A mouse put in cage ; the cat immediately caught killed it , then left it .
3.20 p.m. Passed urine .
Since 12 o'clock lying down nearly all the time , unwilling to move , but not asleep .
3.30 p.m. Passed a little faeces with difficulty .
3.40 " Yomited white frothy liquid .
Heart-beats not perceptible .
Vomited twice during the evening and passed faeces once .
Vomited again in the morning before 10 o'clock .
Ate nothing .
Second day.\#151 ; 10.30 a.m. Weight 4 lbs. 7 ozs .
Sluggish , but quite able to move vigorously .
Smelt at , but would not eat , meat .
Heartbeats very rapid and hardly perceptible .
Quiet all day , refused all food .
Third day .
Weight 4 lbs. 5^- ozs .
Early in the morning vomited , bringing up a worm .
During the night had neither passed urine or faeces .
10.0 a.m. Very sluggish , would not move unless forced to .
Heart beating as yesterday .
A mouse put in the cage ; the cat looked at , but did not attempt to catch it , indeed , it seemed frightened at it .
It remained in this dull state all the third day , and up to 10 o'clock on the morning of the fourth day , neither eating , drinking , vomiting , or passing urine or faeces .
Fourth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. 4 ozs .
Remained in the same dull state all day , taking nothing and passing nothing .
Fifth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. 3 ozs .
At 10 a.m. very sluggish , but proved itself quite capable of action by running across the room , and jumping up to the cage on being frightened while being weighed , yet would not touch a mouse put in the cage before the cat was taken out to be weighed .
At 10.30 a.m. passed about \ oz. of urine .
In the evening ate pretty well and drank milk freely .
Sixth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. 2 ozs .
Early in the morning passed very hard faeces .
Looked better , but still very sluggish .
Fighth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. 2 ozs .
Nothing particular to note since the sixth day .
The cat now appeared well , but had not energy to catch a mouse put with it .
Next day still better , caught and ate a mouse .
On the tenth day was still stronger , and on the eleventh was quite recovered .
The poison injected was not the three-millionth part of the weight of the cat .
No food whatever was taken until the evening of the fifth day , and as nothing had been taken for sixteen hours before the injec- i tion , nothing was eaten for five whole days .
1878 .
] the Poisonous Principle of Urechites Suberecta .
325 Experiment XXIIT .
Injection of 3-^0 gr* crude principle under skin of neck of a strong black cat weighing 4 lbs. , followed three days after by a second injection 0f gr. hydrated urechitoxin .
First day.\#151 ; 11.20 a.m. Injected ^ gr. crude principle , dissolved in A cub. centim. 40 per cent , spirit .
11.50 a.m. Lay down as if to sleep , but if it did sleep it was not soundly .
It continued lying down with its eyes closed , but opened them on being spoken to .
No other effect followed , and on the second and third days it appeared quite well and ate fairly .
Fourth day.\#151 ; 10.30 a.m. Injected ^ gr. urechitoxin in J cub. centim. 40 per cent , spirit .
The cat had not been fed since the previous afternoon , and judging from the results of its vomiting , its stomach must have been empty at the time of this second injection .
10.50 a.m. Vomited violently a little mucus .
Licked its lips for a few minutes previously .
10.55.a.m .
Licked lips .
Vomited violently a little mucus .
11.2 " Do .
do .
do .
11.12 " Do .
do .
do .
Appeared sleepy .
12.20 " Licked lips .
Vomited violently a little mucus .
Appeared sleepy .
11.29 a.m. Licked lips .
Vomited violently a little mucus .
Appeared sleepy .
11.32 a.m. Thick frothy saliva flowed from mouth .
The cat noticed but did not attempt to catch a mouse .
11.35 a.m. Licked lips .
Made frequent attempts to vomit , but brought up nothing more than a little mucus .
11.58 a.m. Licked lips and attempted to vomit as at 11.35 .
11.20 p.m. It was disturbed by being handled , after which it dribbled and licked its lips and seemed as if it would vomit , but did not do so .
Soon went to sleep again .
1.20 p.m. Was again disturbed , when the same symptoms came on as at 12.20 p.m. 1.30 p.m. Passed urine consciously .
1.45 " Drank a good deal of water , but did so very slowly .
The rest of the day it remained still in a dozing state , able to notice , but there was much difficulty in arousing it sufficiently .
Would not stir a single step from the place were it lay unless obliged to do so by force , then it moved as if very weak .
It appeared thirsty , drinking water occasionally .
It was seen to vomit three times during the evening , and three times before 10 o'clock next morning .
It may have vomited at other times in the night .
Fifth day.\#151 ; 10.0 A.M. Sleepy if not actually sleeping .
Very unwilling to move , and when it did , unsteady in its gait .
326 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 , n ; 3^A'f Iried twiCe t0 V'mit ) and ' after violent effort , brought up a little frothy mucus ; there was the usual licking of lips before th* vomiting .
r e 1.30 p m. Tried to vomit at 11.30 o'clock , with the same resalt .
water^ ^ '\#163 ; *he ^ remamed 1uite quiet , taking nothing but Six and seventh days.\#151 ; Still in the same state , apparently sleeping nearly the whole time , refused to eat , but drank water , ii was seen o vomit once on the sixth and twice on the seventh day Eighth day .
In the same state .
Vomited at 8 A.M. and 10.30 a.m and at 12 o clock ; m the mucus brought up at 12 o'clock there were two worms Drank a very little milk which it had hitherto refused ; still refused all solid food .
Now very weak .
Noticed but did not try to catch a mouse put in the cage with it .
2 p.m. Vomited a little curdled milk .
4 " Weight 31bs .
10* ozs .
During the rest of this day and nio-ht remained m the same lifeless , listless state .
Refused all solid food but lapped a very little milk .
Ninth day.\#151 ; Weight 3 lbs. 9 ozs .
At 10 a.m. in much the same condition as on the previous day , but noticed a little more when it was stroked .
11 a m. Put the cat in the cage with a mouse ; no attempt was made to catch it , and soon the cat vomited a quantity of yellow liquid .
In the afternoon put the cat in a large glass vessel with two mice ; it hardly noticed them ; lay still for some time allowing them to run over her , then lazily jumped out of the vessel , more active than in the morning .
If not disturbed , was always asleep ; had to awaken ; took no solid food , merely lapped a few drops of milk ; it seemed as if it was too much trouble to do even that .
Seventh day.\#151 ; Very sluggish but more active than before ; weak in its movements .
When put in glass vessel with mice would not notice them , but jumped out and soon after vomited .
Took no food whatever .
Eleventh day .
Weight 3 lbs. 6 ozs .
Plainly much better , noticed when spoken to , purring , \amp ; c. Took no food , however , and would have nothing to do with mice .
Twelfth day.\#151 ; Weight 3 lbs. 4 ozs .
Better than yesterday .
Would not attempt to catch a mouse .
Ate a little bit of meat .
After this it rapidly and completely recovered .
The injection of the crude principle produced no other effect than disinclination to activity for a few hours afterwards .
The injection of the urechitoxin ( on the fourth day from that of the crude poison ) was followed in twenty minutes by vomiting .
On the fourth , fifth , sixth , and seventh days , all food was refused .
On the eighth day took a little milk which was speedily ejected by vomiting .
1878.1 the Poisonous Principle o/ Urechites Suberecta .
327 On the ninth day took a few drops of milk .
Refused all food on the tenth and eleventh days .
On the twelfth ate a bit of meat .
Practically no food was taken for eight days .
4th day was seen to vomit or retch 11 times .
Took no food .
5th do .
do .
6 do .
do .
6th do .
do .
1 do .
do .
7th do .
do .
2 do .
do .
8th little milk .
do .
do .
4 do .
Drank and vomited a 9th day milk .
was seen to vomit or retch once .
Took a few drops of 10th day was seen to vomit or retch once .
Took no food .
11th day .
No vomiting .
Took no food .
12th day .
, , Ate a bit of meat .
The weight of the cat fell from 4 lbs. to lbs. on the twelfth day , i.e. , in the eight days succeeding the second injection , it lost nearly one-fifth of its weight .
Effect of Amorphous on Gats .
Experiment XXIV .
This and the three following experiments were all made with the same sample of amorphous urechitoxin , a sample from which the crystalline urechitoxin had been removed .
Injectedgr .
amorphous urechitoxin in y cub. centim. of spirit ( 40 per cent. ) under skin of neck of a full grown cat weighing 4 lbs. 12 ozs .
The only effect observed was that the animal became dull and sleepy , and would eat on the day of injection , or on the two following days , thus fasting for three days .
It ate a little , very little , on the fourth and fifth days , hut still remained in the same sleepy state , taking no exercise .
After that it rapidly recovered .
There was no vomiting .
Experiment XXV .
Injected gr. amorphous urechitoxin in y cub. centim. ( 40 per cent. ) spirit under skin of neck of cat weighing 5 lbs. 14 ozs .
The only effect noticed was that the cat was sleepy , dull , and apparently weak , and did not recover its appetite for full five days after the injection of the poison .
There was no vomiting .
Experiment XXVI .
3.32 p.m. Injected -gV amorphous urechitoxin in -S\#166 ; cub. centim. ( 40 per cent. ) spirit under skin of neck of a kitten weighing 1 lb. 1 oz. 3.41 p.m. Passed faeces apparently involuntarily .
Seemed very uncomfortable , mewing and licking its lips , then vomited .
3.43 p.m. Passed more faeces .
Apparently no difficulty in walking .
328 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 , 2.45 P.M. Vomited violently and continued trying to vomit , with cries and slight unsteadiness on its legs until\#151 ; 3.48 P.M. When convulsions came on , speedily ending in death .
The appearances noted after death were similar to those recorded as observed on opening other cats .
Experiment XXYII .
10.45 A.M. Injected gr. amorphous urechitoxin under skin of neck of a cat weighing 4 lbs. 6 ozs .
The animal had had no food for 16 hours .
11.10 A.M. Uneasy , crying , licking lips until\#151 ; 11.22 " When it vomited , brought up little else than frothy liquid .
Cat panting slightly .
11.34 A.M. Passed faeces and urine .
The panting increasing .
The animal disposed to lie down , looking as if fatigued by heat .
11.40 A.M. Vomited white frothy liquid , this somewhat relieved the panting .
Soon it became very indisposed to move ; had been very restless , now it lay quite extended , its heart beating very hard and fully 140 per minute .
12.2 p.m. Vomited white frothy liquid .
12.12 p.m. A mouse was put in the cage , the cat instantly jumped up and killed it , but did not play with or eat it .
The exertion of killing it , though momentary , was too much for it .
1.40 p.m. Put another mouse in the cage , the cat looked at it but for five minutes did not stir , then it got up and smelt it , and on the mouse bounding away , the cat started after but did not follow it .
1.50 p.m. Saliva flowing from cat 's mouth .
3.0 p.m. Hot so disposed to continue lying down .
Heart beating hard but not so hard as before , but quicker , 220 beats per minute .
During the evening it vomited once , and again in the morning before 10 a.m. From the time of the injection refused all food , ' merely drinking a little water .
j Second day.\#151 ; 10.30 a.m. Sluggish , but able to move somewhat vigorously .
Weight 4 lbs. 2 ozs .
Urinated once during the day .
j Tasted but did not swallow a bit of meat .
Took no other food .
Third day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. O^oz .
Ate nothing .
Tasted but did not-drink some milk .
Passed neither faeces or urine .
Remained lying down ; heart beating quickly , but not so hard as before .
Looked at , but did not attempt to catch , a mouse ; indeed , seemed frightened at it .
Fourth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. Ate some meat in the morning , after which it sat up and cleaned itself ; remained lying down all the rest of the day .
Passed no faeces , but some urine during the night .
Fifth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. 2 ozs .
Looking better , but still very dull ; L878 .
] the Poisonous Principle of [ Jrechites Suberecta .
329 loticed , but did not attempt to catch , a mouse .
Drank a little milk in die morning , and fed well in the evening .
Remained still all day .
Sixth day.\#151 ; Weight 4 lbs. 5 ozs .
Much better .
Eighth day.\#151 ; Barely sufficient energy to catch a mouse which was put in the cage .
Might now be considered recovered .
These four experiments show that amorphous urechitoxin has the same physiological action as the crystalline urechitoxin , but perhaps is not so active , weight for weight .
Effect of Urechitin on Gats , given by Mouth .
Experiment XXVIII .
A dose of finely powdered urechitin , weighing gr. , i.e. 6'5 mgms .
, was given to a cat on a piece of meat ; the whole was swallowed , and the animal ate a hearty meal directly afterwards .
11.20 a.m. Poison administered .
12.40 p.m. Vomited a little frothy liquid ; during the next hour it twice vomited food , and once frothy liquid .
2.15 p.m. Had twice since 1.40 p.m. vomited a little frothy liquid .
Now very indisposed to move , when it did was very sluggish and also uncertain in its movements .
Before the poison began to act , it had been a more than usually active cat .
Though so unwilling , or perhaps unable readily , to move , it was too uneasy to remain long in one spot .
Breathing laboured and abdominal .
3 p.m. Vomited frothy liquid very violently .
Very weak .
After this time it remained very quiet , as if too weak to move , yet it appeared decidedly easier .
Next morning it was still very feeble .
At 10 A.M. it vomited some frothy liquid , in which was a worm .
It had been vomiting during the night .
It refused to eat all day , but after this time recovered rapidly and completely .
Urechitin is very insoluble in watery liquids ; and as the dose was given in the solid form , and was immediately followed by a hearty meal , which was entirely ejected within two and a half hours from the exhibition of the poison , no doubt but little was absorbed into the system .
Experiment XXIX .
To the perfectly recovered cat used in Experiment XXVIII , administered a similar dose , i.e. , ^ gr. urechitin ; but this time the poison was dissolved in a few drops of very strong alcohol , and the solution diluted with weak spirit until the poison began to crystallize out of the mixed solution , and very fine crystals were then poured into the throat of the cat , and its mouth held shut until they seemed to be swallowed .
The bulk of the dose undoubtedly was swallowed , but little escaping .
330 Mr. J. J. Bowrey on the Physiological Action of [ Apr. 11 10.40 a.m. Poison given on empty stomach. .
11.0 , , Vomited clear liquid mixed with , white froth .
11.10 , , Do .
do .
11.20 , , Do .
yellow liquid mixed with yellow froth .
11.40 " Do .
do .
12.5 p.m. Do .
do .
The vomiting very violent and accompanied with cries .
1.10 p.m. Made violent attempts to vomit , hut brought nothing up .
Very weak .
3.4 p.m. Vomited violently white frothy liquid .
7.0 " Do .
do .
immediately afterwards convulsions came on , in which it died .
After 1 o'clock it gradually became weaker , and was very unwilling to move .
When the effects of the poison were well developed , the skin of neck was observed to be of a bright pink colour ; the colour was easily seen on the neck , as the skin was very thin there ; when the poison was given the skin was almost colourless .
The eyes were not affected , their pupils remaining sensitive to light ; in death , however , they enlarged , the irises becoming mere lines .
Experiment XXX .
A dose of -Jg- gr. of pure finely powdered urechitin was distributed on two small pieces of meat , which were then given to a cat ; one piece was swallowed , the other rejected after being cbewed ( no doubt the poison was tasted ) ; a considerable proportion of the dose , however , must have been swallowed even from that second piece of meat , for the poison lying on its exterior would be swept off in the act of chewing .
11.0 a.m. Dose given on empty stomach .
11.40 , , Vomited .
12.0 Do .
12.15 p.m. Do .
1.0 " Do .
but not again up to the time of leaving the laboratory ( 4 p.m. ) .
After mid-day it remained in the same spot , never moving .
Next morning it was found in the same state as when left ; there were no signs of any vomiting .
On being let out of its cage it slowly walked to a bush , under the shade of which it remained all day .
It refused to eat anything .
In the evening it was left under the bush .
Third morning\#151 ; The cat was found lying in a cool place some 40 feet from the spot where it was left on the second day .
It was very weak , and had lost the power of locomotion completely , but could move its limbs languidly .
At 10 a.m. it was carried into the laboratory , that it might be more closely watched .
If undisturbed it lay perfectly still , asleep .
Liquid ran from its mouth .
Pupils sensitive to light , but .178 .
] the Poisonous Principle o/ Urechites Suberecta .
331 \gt ; !T3ved sluggishly .
Now and then a slight convulsive movement of the Idy and limbs was seen .
It became weaker and weaker , until the fieathing was imperceptible , and only by touch could I be certain it sis not dead .
Urine ran from it .
At a few minutes before 12 o'clock idied .
I did not see it die , but I had examined it about ten minutes jfore I found it dead .
There was no rigidity , but the usual enlargement of the pupil was very marked immediately after death , which tok place 49 hours after the administration of the poison .
The bladder was found distended with urine , and the lower bowels ill of hard faeces .
The smaller intestines were empty , but not tense contracted .
The gall bladder distended with bile , and colouring !
|q stomach yellow .
The lungs pink .
The right side of the heart tirged with dark blood , and the veins also ; the left side contained a Itle thin red blood .
The body was opened very shortly after death .
1 The experiments I have detailed show the four forms of poison detracted from TJrechites suberecta to be practically identical in their uysiological action .
In mice they cause muscular paralysis , respira-iry difficulty , and convulsions ending in death .
In cats , large and Moderate doses always produced vomiting , which ( in the cases where \#166 ; yry speedily fatal doses were exhibited ) was followed by convulsions ad death ; but where death was delayed , both faeces and urine were uacuated , the vomiting frequently renewed , pulse and respiration aiickened , notably the former , and muscular paralysis gradually de-[ doped , the end being preceded by convulsions .
Very small doses proceed on the first day vomiting , defecation and micturition ; the miting persisting for several days , but the bowels becoming confined ad the secretion of urine apparently lessened .
But perhaps the most Marked symptoms following the exhibition of small doses , was the ifusal of all food for many days , and the great disinclination to muscular exertion .
Salivation was also sometimes produced by the ejection of very small quantities of the poison .
n In the four experiments on cats , in which but y^oo gr- the poison as administered daily , there was no vomiting , indeed no visible effect -r many days ; then a gradual loss of appetite and general dulness , icceeded by sudden convulsions , followed in a few hours by death .
3 Experiment XIV , however , no symptoms of poisoning appeared for jeven weeks , and then they preceded death by less than twenty-four '\#174 ; urs .
f The smallest quantity of the pure crystallized poison which proved flfcal to a cat was ^ gr. , injected subcutaneously in one dose\#151 ; see Kcperiment XX .
This was equivalent to one two-and-a-half millionth 1 the cat 's weight .
The next smallest fatal dose is that recorded in Htperiment XIII , in which eleven separate doses were administered , fftxounting in all to -fa gr. , or one three-and-a-quarter millionth of the 't 's weight .
In other experiments no fatal effect resulted until three 332 Rev. W. H. Dallinger on to six times as much , proportionally to the weight of the animal swallowed .
\#153 ; *1'was The Society then adioumed oyer the May 2 .
Easter Recess , to Thursday , P % 2 , May 2 , 1878\gt ; Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recoup mended for election into the Society were read from the Chair* ao follows John Gilbert Baker , F.L.S. Francis Maitland Balfour .
Rev. Thomas George Bonney , M.A. Prof. James Henry Cotterill , M.A. Sir Walter Elliot , K.C.S.I. Rev. Canon W. Greenwell , M.A. Thomas Hawksley , C.E. John Hopkinson , M.A. , D.Sc .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; John Hughlings Jackson , M.D. Lord Lindsay , P.R.A.S. Samuel Roberts , M.A. Edward A Schafer , M.R.C.S. Herman Sprengel , Ph. D. George James Symons .
Charles S. Tomes , M.A. I. " On the Xife-History of a Minute Septic Organisms with an account of Experiments made^to determine its Thermal Death Point .
" By Bov .
W. H. Dalungeb .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , See , K.S. Eeceived March 2C lo7o .
' [ Plates 8 , 9 .
] WBBKMsi"0e in examil\#153 ; g an infusion of animal matter , winch had , nrdortunately , been diluted with water , and had vegetable placed m it , I observed a minute and intensely active OTgamsm , which , on closer and more careful examination , I found to * ' me* therefore determined to'endeavour it and Tr , ' 8 BhHH|| diluted infusion was unsuited to \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; \#166 ; reach , as well as all probable places besides , but in vain . .
And it

