]\gt ; By , F.R.S. Exterior Ballistics .
( No. 2 .
) ( Received November 6 , \mdash ; Read December 12 , 1907 .
) a curve which may be described as the characteristic curve of any gun , aract iensity oibre ients ohese aharge aThat communication contained ( construction feducingI.ommunication tuthor ehich trdinates a new characteristic curve when the muzzle velocity changed ; ( 4 ) a comparison of range-tables showing how , by help of these laws , from the chal.actel'istic curve for a gun of any calibre and muzzle velocity , to deduce the a gun of any other calibre and muzzle velocity ; and ( 5 ) empirical formulae enabling a practical runsight to be so constructed that when set for true range , it is also set for the true elevation , whatever the calibre of the , the muzzle velocity , the air density , and the rate of of may be .
6 .
At a ione of the Royal Society last year , a model of this gunsight , made by .
W. G. , Whitworth , and Co. , was shown , and later a complete sight for a 6-inch was made by the same firm , and was tested and approved of by Naval experts at Portsmouth , but it has not been adopted for the Britisl ] Navy .
allthor had designed this sight use in conn ection with a range-firnler , and also with a new ) in strument , and a mechanical transmission of ranges to the gunsights , so designed that the runs of all calibres are kept by a motor continuously set the varying the speed of the motor is checked by occasional observations of the range .
The advantages claimed for this system of gunsighting All guns ) set to the true , a ship may carry guns of various ] , and the abolition of the secondary armament in our battleships is unnecessary , in so .
as fire-control is a consideration .
( 2 ) The oflicers , during an action , are relieved from much brain-work .
( 3 ) The best brains of the do ot need to be concentrated on a platfor1n at the -head .
( 4 ) Surrender of a ship when that mast is shot away becomes lmnecessary , because control of all of the ship 's guns can be .
Soc. Proc January , 1905 .
Exterior Ballistics .
cArried on from any turret .
These can be only by a sight like the one first exhibited by the author to the Society , which is ahvays set to the true whatever may be the nruzzle velocity , airdensity , and rate of of As the author l.efelTed to this gunsight in his previous on " " Exterior Ballistics he desires thus shortly to record the success ) attended its construction , before now to some new ) allistic theorems .
7 .
Angle of Dcscent.\mdash ; A knowledge of the inclination of the tra , jectory of a shot to the horizontal ] at the end of its is necessary for estimating the extent of the zone .
to the principle of the rigidity the trajectory , proved in artillery text-books , if the axis of the has to be inclined at an of elevation to the line of to hit a target at the on a horizontal plane , the is correct for any vertically above the former ; so that if the vertical angle between the two target positions be not great , the trajectory is simply raised that angle .
Call this angle , and let be the range on the horizontal plane for the elevation .
From it is clear FIG. 1 .
that , if OR and , and if SOP POR , and , the an gle of descent , when and are educed initely , then in the limit .
8 .
The characteristic curve introduced by the author gives the ession of this law very neatly .
In , OR is a range and FIb .
2 .
Through draw OQ ) arallel to the tangent at , and produced .
Then xterior B produced for moderate elevations ; therefore Thus PR is the angle of elevation and the angle of descent , or their ents .
9 .
\mdash ; If in the line OQ produced cuts the aracteristic curve at , draw perpendicular to produced .
If , as a first approximation , the curvature of OPP ' be taken as uniform , then OR ' and if the angle of descent known at any range , twice this angle is approximate]y the angle of elevation at twice the range .
This rule for extending a -table to ranges has been known as approximation .
The geometrical form of proof clearly its limitations .
10 .
To trace the from the elevations and corresponding ranges given in a range-table:\mdash ; Rule : In fig. ) , let be the range and SO the elevation .
Take any other range OR ' , and draw Ox ' so that SOx ' is the corresponding elevation .
Through draw vertically , meeting in point P. Then the locus of is the trajectory .
This follows directly from the principle of of the trajector For if Ox ' were horizontal , the angle of elcvatio1l vould carry the shot to and that principle says that wheu Ox ' is inclined the shot is carried to the poiIlt P. We must not assume , however , a mathematical accuracy in that principle in cases } ) is not a small angle .
But even where not mathematically exact this construction is useful .

