III .
" On Lesions of the Nervous System producing Diabetes .
" By FREDERICK W. PAVY , M.D. Loud .
&amp;c. Commmunicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received May 17 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) The author commenced his paper bystating , that all the experiments he had performed since his communication on the " ' Alleged Sugarforming Function of the Liver " had been placed in the possession of the Royal Society , had confirmed the conclusions he had there arrived at .
As far as his knowledge extended , it might be said that in the healthy liver during life there is a substance which he had spoken of under the term of hepatine , and which possesses the chemical property of being most rapidly tranrsformed into sugar when in contact with nitrogenized animal materials .
In the liver after death this transformation takes place , but in the liver during life there seems a force or a condition capable of overcoming the chemical tendency to a saccharine metamorphosis .
Experiments are mentioned to show that when the medulla oblonlgata is destroyed , and the circulation is maintained by the performance of artificial respiration , the sugar formed in the liver as a postmortem occurrence is distributed through the system , and occasions the secretion of urine possessing a strongly saccharine character .
Although thedestruction of the medulla oblongataleads to this effect , yet division of the spinal cord , which has been practised as high as between the second and third cervical vertebrre , has not been attended with a similar result .
The brain ( cerebrum ) has also been separated from the medulla oblongata by section through the crura cerebri , and from the results of the experiments in which this operation has been performed , Dr. Pavy believed that the functions of the brain may be completely destroyed , without placing the liver in the condition noticeable after actual death , or after lesion of the medulla oblongata .
On account of the accidental disturbaiices , -such as implication of the medulla oblongata , possibly by concussion , obstruction of the respiration , and the effects of the great loss of blood sometimes attending division of the crura cerebri , the interpretation of the result is rendered a little difficult .
In an experiment , which proved most conclusive , performed to corroborate the author 's previoIis observations whilst his communication was being written , there were none of these dlisturbing circumstances .
In a healthy dog , during a period of digestior .
, the crura cerebri were completely divided .
The animal was thereby thrown into a state of unconsciousness , but breathed efficiently of its own accord .
The urine in an hour and a quarter 's time was found perfectly free from sugar .
After poisonling by strychnine , the effect is the same as after destruction of the nedulla oblongata .
The circulation being maintained by artificial respiration , the urinie becomes strongly saccharine .
Looking to these facts , and to the effect of Bernard 's puncture of the fourth ventricle in producing diabetes , the author is led to regard the medulla oblongata as a centre , either directly presiding over the functional activity of the liver , or indirectly affecting it by altering through the medium of another or other organs the condition of the blood going to it ; and he has endeavoured to establish upon positive grounds the channel by which the propagation of the nervous influence may take place .
It was this line of research that cornducted to the discovery of the strongly diabetic effect produced by dividing certain parts of the sympathetic .
The medulla oblongata being thus presumed to form a centre giving to the liver a force which prevenits the saccharine metamorphosis of its hepatine , experiment had already shown that it cannot be through the spinal cord or the pneumogastrics separately , that the transmission of nervous influence takes place .
But an experiment was performed to determine the e-ffect of dividing both the spinal cord and the two pneumogastrics together .
The cord was crushed between the third and fourth cervical vertebrae , and about half an inch of each pneumogastric was cut away from the centre of the neck .
Artificial respiration was performed to keep up the circulation .
The urine remained entirely free from sugar , and the liver was found in aln exsaccharine state at the moment of disconitinuing the respiration , and became strongly saccharine afterwards .
On niext dividing all the nerves in the neck , an operation effected by performing decapitation , the result that followed after three quLarters of an hour 's artificial respiration was strongly saccharine urine .
After this experiment , and that of divisioni of the spinal cord and pnleuilogastries , reasoni was afforded for looking to the sympathetic ; and from the experinemits that have been made and are described , the following conclusions have been arrived at .
The animal selected for observation has been the dog , subsisting upon an animal diet , and operated upon at a period of full digestion .
" Division , on both sides of the neck , of the ascending branches of the superior thoracic ganglion which run up towards the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the vertebrue , for the vertebral artery , occasions an intensely marked diabetes .
The urine has been found most strongly saccharine withiln even half an hour after the operation , The diabetic condition is only of a temporary character , passing off by the next day , and fatal pleurisy is always induced .
" Division of the ascending branches of the superior thoracic ganglion on one side of the neck only , has occasioned merely the presence of a trace of sugar in the urine in an hour and a half 's time .
The same operation then performed on the other side has produced in half an hour 's time an intensely saccharine urine .
" Carefully ligaturing the two vertebral and the two carotid art .
ries does not lead to saccharine urine ; but when the carotids have been tied , and the tissue in connexior .
with the vertebrals before their entrance into the canals is a little roughly treated , without however dividing the larger sympathetic filament aseending from the superior thoracic ganglion , the urine is rendered rapidly and strongly saccharine .
" Division of the sympathetic filaments that have entered the canals does not alone produce diabetes ; but if the contents of these canals be divided , and the carotid arteries at the same time ligatured , saccharine urine is the result .
" This result is produced when the contents of the osseous canals are divided as high as the second cervical vertebra .
It has also arisen after destroying the structures in the neighbourhood of the vertebral foramen on the posterior surface of the transverse process of the atlas , but has not yet been nioticed after a similar operation on the anterior surface of the process .
" Dividing the contents of the canals and the tissue in immediate contact with the carotid vessels has not produced diabetes ; but when the carotids have been afterwards tied , strongly saccharine urine has resulted .
" Of all the operations on the sympathetic of the dog that have yet been performed , removal of the superior cerical canglion the most rapidly and strongly produces diabetes .
After the removal of one ganglion , the urine has been found intensely saccharine in an hour 's time , and the sacelharine character has remained during the following day , but has disappeared by the next .
Subsequent removal of the other ganglion a few days later has beeni followed in half an hour 's time with a strongly marked diabetic effect , which , however , has been again only of a temporary nature .
" Division of the sympathetic in the chest has been several times succeeded by saccharine urine .
In one case after division on one side only , the urine was intensely saccharine in half an hour ' time .
On the other hand , many experiments have been made where both sides have been operated on , and only a merely traceable , or in a few instances , even no effect , has been noticeable .
" In the rabbit , removal of the superior cervical ganglia , when the animal is in a strong and healthy state , is followed by diabetes ; but the effect is not so rapidlJy produced as in the dog .
It has been noticed at the end of four hours after the operation , and has been observed to exist until the following day .
" Excision of the superior cervical ganglia in the rabbit with a division of the pneumogastrics above their gangliform enlargement close to their exit from the skull , has been attended with the production of saccharine urine in a shorter space of time than when the ganglia alone have been removed , notwithstanding that division of the pneumogastrics in the situation referred to , has not been seen by itself to cause any positive effect .
" Such is a simple statement of the principal conclusions derivable from the author 's experiments , which are given in detail in his communication .
As to the interpretation of the results that have been obtained , this he leaves for further investigation , in which he is now engaged , if possible , to disclose .
The experiments on the sympathetic were commernced under the notion that it might form the medium of transmission of nervous force from the medulla oblongata to the liver .
From this supposition certain facts have been discovered which are left for the present , without discussing whether the notion that led to them is right or wrong .

