The Croonian Lecture .
On the Changes the Blood undergoes in the act of Coagulation .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 20 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 172 .
] After paying a tribute of applause to the talents of MA/ r. Bauer , as a microscopical observer , the author proceeds to estimate the size of the globules in human blood , 16 of which , when enveloped in their colouring matter , occupy the space of the 160,000th part of a square inch , so that 2,560,000 would be required to cover the superficial inch ; but when the colouring matter is removed , 25 occupy the 160,000th part of an inch , which gives 4,000,000 to the square inch .
The readiness with which the colouring matter is removed by the action of water , and its large relative quantity compared to the globule ( being as about 3 to 1 ) , induce the author to believe that the colouring substance is distinct from and not contained in the globules , but that it merely envelops them .
The globules of the blood are not of the same appearance in all animals : in the skate they are of an oval form , and about twice as large as those in human blood , and quite independent of the colouring matter .
When the globules in the human blood have discharged their colour , they coalesce by mutual attraction into various forms , represented in a drawing annexed to the paper .
In one instance four globules united so as to form a line with lateral indentations .
The author , struck with the analogy between this appearance and that of a single muscular fibre , was induced to request Mr. Bauer to endeavour to unravel a muscle , so as , if possible , to compare its ultimate fibre with the chain of adhering globules .
In this attempt he succeeded ; and the appearances under the microscope , which were analogous , were given in an annexed drawing .
It was further found that by macerating muscular fibre it might be broken down into colourless globules of the same size and appearance as those of the blood .
Having adduced these and other proofs and observations in favour of the ultimate muscular fibre being formed of the colourless globular particles of the blood , and having noticed the globular structiure of the fibres of the brain , the author proceeds to consider in what manner the blood , in the act of coagulation , acquires the tubular texture , which fits it , when extravasated in living animals , to open a communication with the circulation , and afterwards to become a part of the solids of the animal .
Guided by some curious observations of Mr. Bauer on the formation of the tubular structure of plants , Sir Everard was induced to believe that the extrication of air , during the coagulation of the blood , might have an important influence upon its subsequent texture , and therefore observed what happened during the coagulation of a drop of blood in the field of the microscope .
At first a film of coagulum formed upon the surface , air was then diseclaged , which passed in every direction throughl the serum , without interfering with the globules , and formed a beautiful nct-work of ao)lastomosing 907 canals .
Of this appearance an exact representation is given in annexed drawings .
It explains , says the author , the important change which the blood undergoes after extravasation in living animals , and leaves no difficulty in accounting for its becoming vascular by receiving the red blood into the tubes thus prepared .
The author concludes his lecture by acknowledging his obligations to the unexampled zeal and exertions of the President in promoting and facilitating scientific pursuits .
It was under his encouragement , and in compliance with his wishes , that Mr. Bauer , laying aside for the time his customary researches in vegetable anatomy , turned his attention to the subject of the present communication , and assisted in bringing those appearances to light , which , without his aid , must still have remained in obscurity .

