]\gt ; November 22 , 1888 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the hst of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows:\mdash ; President.\mdash ; Professor George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , .D .
Treasurer.\mdash ; John Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. .
D. iForeign Secretary.\mdash ; Professor Alexander William Williamson , .
D. Other Members of the Council.\mdash ; Professor Henry Edward Armstrong , Ph. D. ; Henry Bowman Brady , F.G.S. ; Charles Baron Clarke , M.A. ; William Huggins , D.C. h. ; John Whitaker Hulke , F.R.C.S. ; Professor John W. Judd , F.G.S. ; dward Emanuel Klein , M.D. ; Professor E. Ray Lankester , M.A. ; Professor Herbert McLeod , F.I.C. ; Sir James Paget , Bart. , D.C.L. ; William Pole , Mus. Doc .
; William Henry Preece , M.I.C.E. ; Sir Henry E. Roscoe , D.C.L. ; Edward John Routh , D.Sc .
; Professor Arthur William Rucker , M.A. ; William James Lloyd Wharton , Capt. R.N. The Presents were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : I. " " On the Specific Heats of Gases at Constant Volume .
( Preliminary Note By J. JoLY , .
Communicated by Professor G. F. RALD , F.R.S. Received July 21 , 1888 .
I have found it possible to obtain the specific heat of a gas at constant volume by means of the steam ] } , the values obtained being , I believe , reliable as close approximations to the true values .
* ' ' On the Method of Condensation in Calorimetry\ldquo ; ( by J. Joly ) " " Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 41 , p. 352 ; and " " Ueber das Dampfcalorim \ldquo ; ( von R. Bunsen ) , ' Annalen , ' vol. 31 , p. 1 .
Mr. J. Joly .
On the [ Nov. 22 , The first method of procedure adopted was to compress by means of a pump a certain quantity of dry air into a thin copper sphere , the sphere being then closed by a screw valve .
The quantity of gas in the sphere is ascertained by weighing .
The sphere is now hung in the calorimeter , suspended from a delicate balance , reading to one-tenth o.f a milligram , and its thermal capacity determined in a certain number of experiments .
The gas is then released , and the sphere further exhausted by means of an airpump , sealed , and its thermal capacity again determined in a number of experiments .
This allows of a computation of the thermal capacity of the contained gas .
This method I at first used , but as in dealing with the effect on the weighings , due to the transference of so bulky a body from air to steam , much troublesome calculation and risk of error was involved , I modified it in the following ma1lner:\mdash ; Two spheres are prepared , alike with respect to external volume , and approximaely of the same weight .
The thermal capacities of these are compared in a double calorimeter , being suspended one from each arm of a short beam balance .
If their thermal capacities are not alike a calculated weight of copper wire is introduced into that of least thermal capacity .
They are in this way brought to have the same thermal capacity , so that in an experiment on the empty spheres there is no fact on the balance .
One of these is now pumped full of air , and the specific heats of the spheres again compared .
The weight of condensation now obtained is that due to the gas alone .
It is evident that many sources of error obtaining in the former method are removed in the latter .
The results obtained are also far more consistent one with another .
In this case the specific heat is calculated directly on the formula given in my paper on the steam calorimeter \mdash ; where is the latent heat of steam , the weight of steam condensed by the gas , the weight of gas , and the extremes of temperature obtaining .
so calculated may be subject some slight corrections , which I will not here enter into .
Up to the present I have only dealt with air , bnt I have made preparations for resuming shortly my work , with other gases , over critical temperatures if possible in some cases , and making confirmatory experiments on air and also in extension of those given below .
The spheres used are about cm .
internal diameter ; volume .
They weigh about grams .
That containing the air is tested hydraulically to 1000 lbs. per square inch .
8 .
Specific Heats of Gases at constant Volume .
Table I. Weight of Air in the Sphere grammes .
Pressure at C. about 27,700 mm. of Mercury .
Density Table II .
Weight of Air in the Sphere grammes .
Pressure at C. about 21,800 mm. of Mercury .
Density Table III .
Weight of Air in Sphere grammes .
Pressure at C. about 15,890 mm. of Mercury .
Density Specific Heats of Gases at constant Volume .
[ Nov. 22 These , it is seen , afford a result above that theoretically assigned to air at constant volume .
They differ too somewhat from some experiments made by the first-described method , are somewhat lower than their mean , but the consistency displayed throughout in the thirteen experiments given , especially in Tables I and II , leads me to give these numbers as probably a close approximation to the true value .
One point is at any rate brought out clearly , that is , that the surmise that the specific heat of a gas at constant volume was a quantity independent of pressure\mdash ; a snrmise based partly on the constancy of the specific heat at constant would appear to be correct .
The values in the three tables , calculated simply on the weights of gas dealt with in each set of experiments , show results quite independent of the variations of pressure and density obtaining , the weight of condensfl ) tion simply falling ofl with the decrease in the weight of gas , till in the third table is ning to feel the errors incidental to the considerable mass of the spheres and to give more vat.iable results .
I have prepared very tbin light spheres with a view to continue the experiments to lower pressures with less danger of error .
The cause of the excess in the value obtained above the theoretical is not apparent , in view of the independence of prossul.e displayed .
The experiments embodied in the three tables were made indeed upon the one sample of air\mdash ; some being liberated after the first five experiments , and so on\mdash ; but this had been dried through three calcium chloride tubes and two large -tubes of phosphorus pentoxide passing into the pump .
Between the pump and the sphere it passed through a brass tube stuffed with asbestos which had been previously heated to redness .
The object of this is to guard against oil being carried from the pump into the sphere .
My first determination of the specific heat of air constant volume was ected on the 13th of April of this present year .
It was made by the method described in the inning of this note , at a pressure somewhat higher than that at which the expcrimentf ; of Table I were effected .
This experiment gave as a result the specific heat of air to be Note .
October 18 .
Subsequent more extended experiments have shown me that this condition was not absolutely fulfilled .
A small reduction of the recorded for the specific heat of air is necessary on this account , but insufficient to affect any remarks made in this note .
experiments on the empty spheres , I may observe , are sufficiently consistent one with another to warrant the assumption that the recorded by me are not probably affected to the extent of one cent. by errors on the calorific capacities of the spheres .

