214 Profs .
W. King and T. H. Rowney .
[ June 19 , It is evident from the above tables that acetylene is governed by the same laws as other compressible liquids , that is to say , its com* , pressibility increases as the temperature rises , but diminishes as the pressure increases .
For instance , at a pressure of 95 atmospheres it is three times as compressible at 35 ' C. as at 0 ' C. The volume being the same , the compressibility appears to be nearly the same at different temperatures , which is really due to the curves at high pressures running nearly parallel , thus introducing a corresponding difficulty in the estimation of small differences .
On comparing the compressibility of liquid acetylene with the results obtained by M. Amagat ( " Annales de Chem. , " 1877 ) in the case of benzene , it appears to be about seven times as compressible as the latter body , at a temperature of 16 ' C. , and under a pressure of 40 atmospheres .
The comparison could not be carried out at higher temperatures , for whereas M. Amagat reaches a temperature of 100 ' C. with the benzene , I was not able to go beyond 35 ' C. with the acetylene .
XIX .
On the Origin of the Mineral , Structural , and Chemical Characters of Ophites and related Rocks .
" By Professors W. King , Sc. D. , and T. H. Rowney , Ph. D. Communicated by the Treasurer , R.S. Received May 12 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) The authors , beginning with ( A ) " The different kinds of rocks treated of , " in their memoir , divide them into two groups .
The first , " Silacid Ophites , " is represented by serpentinite ( common at the Lizard ) and other rocks , essentially composed of serpentinous minerals : it includes a subsection , comprising peridolites and some others , all slightly hydrated .
The second , " Silocarbacid Ophites , " consists of rocks , which , in addition to serpentinons minerals , contain a mineral carbonate\#151 ; for example , ophi-calcite .
: its subsection is represented by hemithrenes .
The relation of the first group , through its subsection , to ordinary metamorphic rocks , also of the second group , through its subsection , to carrarites and dolomites is pointed out .
As regards ( B ) " Their mineral character , " it is stated that ophites , \amp ; c. , embrace some fifty or more different minerals , all containing more or less hydrous silicate of magnesia ; in addition to which , dry silicates and carbonates are often present .
The relation of these minerals to others , essentially anhydrous , as hornblende , diallage , and peridote , is noticed .
Treating on ( C ) " The structural character of ophites , \amp ; c. , " the protean nature of their essential mine al , serpentine , is shown by 1879 .
] On Ophites and related Rocks .
215 a description of its fibrous , arborescent , coccolitic , platy , and other allomorphs .
With reference to ( D ) " The origin of certain mineral , structural , and chemical characters of ophites , \amp ; c. , " the subject is treated of under different heads :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Fibrous layers in peridote from Elfdalen , in " graphic granite " from Harris , in perthite from Siberia , and in other instances .
( 2 ) The alternation of different minerals in laminated ophicalcite and ophi-malacolite has its parallel in other and totally different rocks .
( 3 ) The change of the fibres of chrysotile into aciculae , separated by calcareous interpolations , is illustrated by figures taken from decalcified and polarised specimens of this allomorph from Canada ; also from a characteristic specimen of the same from the type-locality , Reichenstein .
( 4 ) Branching configurations , such as are assumed by serpentine , are common in hemithrenes from widely different regions : the authors refer to examples , showing that they are residual , resulting from the waste of crystalloids of malacolite .
Beautiful examples occur in the calcaire saccharoide ( a hemithrene ) of St. Philippe , near St. Marie-aux-Mines , in the Yosges , rivalling those in Canadian ophite : and not only are the associated lobnlated grains of pyrosclerite covered with a fibrous layer , closely resembling chrysotile in structure ; but its fibres are occasionally converted into aciculae , separated by films of calcite .
( 5 ) The presence of calcite under the latter condition , and in connexion with configurations of serpentine and malacolite , as well as lobulated grains of these and other minerals , the authors ascribe to chemical changes similar to pseudomorphism among minerals .
( 6 ) It is contended that no minerals are incapable of resisting changes of the kind , even those regarded as the most insoluble .
The experiments of Bischof , the Professors W. B. and R. E. Rogers and others , show that hypersthene , enstatite , serpentine , and various mineral silicates , digested in water containing carbonic acid , are convertible into carbonates .
( 7 ) Cases are mentioned of rocks , essentially composed of mineral silicates , which have thus become changed ; as diorite from Jersey , granite and a porphyritic feldsite from near Galway , which have had certain of their mineral silicates replaced by serpentine and calcite .
The latter cases -bring on a chapter ( E ) " On rock-metamorphism generally .
" The authors divide metamorphic rocks into two groups\#151 ; mineralised , and methylosed ; the former consisting of members which have had their original sedimentary components mineralised into gneiss , hornblende-schist , \amp ; c. ; and the latter of members , thus mineralised , but which , through the intervention of chemical reactions , have been converted into ophites , \amp ; c. : methylosis is to rocks the same as pseudomorphism to minerals .
After briefly referring to the theory promulgated by Leibnitz in his " Protogsea , " which anticipated many points now generally held as to the origin of the metamorphics , they Q2 Profs .
W. King and T. H. Rowney .
[ June 19 , examine the doctrine advocated by Sterry Hunt ; and contend that it is altogether untenable , both from his own arguments , and a body of unquestionable counter-evidence .
Repudiating a doctrine which regards the rocks in question as still being in their original or quasi-original condition , formed at the bottom of a primaeval ocean , through the chemical precipitation of substances which it held in solution , the authors express themselves in accordance with the prevailing opinion that they were originally ordinary argillaceous , arenaceous , and other sediments , which , through being buried at great depths , have undergone various changes\#151 ; some ending in their mineralisation and others in their methylosis .
Sterry Hunt 's doctrine is further contested by evidences adduced of regional metamorphism pertaining to various post-Archasan periods , whose crystalline or mineral effects are identical with those which he restricts to pre-Cambrian ages , and which he presumes to have been produced by chemical precipitations from seas of the time .
The mineralised metamorphics having thus far principally engaged their attention , the authors next touch upon the ( F ) " Methylosed metamorphics\#151 ; ophites .
" Taking , as their standpoint , the carefully worked " out conclusion of Blfim , Bischof , Rose , and others , that serpentine , as a mineral , is in all cases the product of pseudomorphism , it is contended that rocks essentially made up of it , adding other secondary minerals in certain kinds , have necessarily undergone chemical changes .
Cases are cited , such as the serpentinite of the Lizard , which they were the first to show , from its containing pseudo-morph crystals after augite , had been originally a porphyritic dolerite .
One of the Cannover Isles , in Lough Corrib , contains a mass of serpentine , which is shown to be a methylosed diorite or tremolitic rock .
The evidences offered by Bischof , Heddle , and other writers , as to the conversion of serpentinous- and other siliceous rocks into calcareous masses are adduced by the authors in confirmation of their view respecting ( G ) " The methylotic origin of hemithrenes , \amp ; c. " Additional original evidences are brought forward with the same purport .
A volcanic or doleritic dyke intersects gneiss on Mr. Frederick Twining 's estate , adjacent to Cleggan Bay , Connemara ; where , not only is the gneiss converted into hemithrene , consisting of malacolite , peridote , serpentine , calcite , and other minerals , but the dyke itself is charged with calcitic matter .
Another case occurs at St. Philippe , Vosges , where gneiss incloses dyke-like masses of hemithrene , as to conclusively prove , in the opinion of the authors , that the latter are chemically changed products of the former , effected by permeating streams of heated water containing a carbonate in solution .
The labours of Delesse have shown that the region around abounds with masses of the kind .
The rocks described having undergone such remarkable changes , 1879 .
] On Ophites and related Rocks .
the authors have been induced to make investigations as to ( H ) " The origin of the minerals characteristic of ophites , \amp ; c. , especially peridote .
" With certain exceptions the minerals referred to are considered to be of secondary origin , the exceptions being those remaining unaffected by secondary agencies .
Serpentines , malacolite , phlogopite , chlorite , enstatite , and a number of others are all considered as secondary minerals .
Peridote , notwithstanding that it is generally considered to be an original mineral in the same sense as the hornblende , feldspar , mica , \amp ; c. , of granite and other plutonic rocks , is regarded by the authors as a product of alteration in all its relations , and circumstances of occurrence .
Its presence in granites , basalts , and lavas has given rise to the belief that it is of igneous origin : nevertheless its occurrence in mineralised and methylosed rocks ( gneiss , and ophite of the sedimentary section ) is held as proving the contrary : and the authors feel themselves justified in assuming that it is as much a secondary product as the zeolites and pseudomorphs found in granites , basalts , and lavas .
Many of the crystals occurring in basalts and lavas , which have been taken for peridote , are in their opinion pseudomorphs after augite and hornblende .
Repudiating the doctrine that the Archaean rocks are the result of chemical precipitations , and entertaining the strongest doubts that life has been to any extent concerned in their formation , the authors , in a chapter ( I ) " On the origin of the Archaean crystalline limestones of Canada , " apply their views on hemithrenes to the present subject ; and they arrive at the conclusion , from various considerations , that the rocks in question are methylosed products ; but which , before this change took place , existed as gneisses , hornblende-schists , and other mineralised silacid metamorphics .
The question ( J ) " Why limestones are so rare in formations immediately succeeding the Arehaeans " is discussed in connexion with the facts that calcareous organisms are rare or not present in the formations referred to , and that calcareous rogks are abundant in the preceding systems\#151 ; the Archaeans .
These facts are held to be in unison with the authors ' conclusions stated in the last chapter , and to favour the view that the Archaean limestones with their present constitution were not available as materials for the production of calcareous rocks in the earliest Cambrian age .
( K. ) " The genetic difference between mineralised and methylosed metamorphism " is explained by assuming that water has been an important factor in both cases ; but as the minerals in the first group are for the most part anhydrous or dry species , it is assumed that the original ( ?
hygroscopic ) water , which its members contained in their condition as sediment , was sufficient for their mineralisation ; on the other hand , as the minerals composing the members of the second group are chiefly hydrous , it is contended that their methylosis has On Ophites and related Rocks .
[ June 19 , been effected by additional water penetrating them , and flowing from extraneons or foreign sources .
Compared with each other , mineralised rocks may be classed as xerothermal , and methylosed as hydrothermal .
Various evidences are adduced to show that ( L ) " Some ophites have been originally igneous , and others sedimentary rocks , " \#151 ; a conclusion favouring their secondary , and consequently their methylotic origin .
( M. ) " Some crystalline limestones are simply mineralised , " such as carrarite ; though rocks closely related to them , \#151 ; viz. , " Dolomites , have undergone methylosis .
" With regard to the latter , however , the authors do not accept Von Buch 's theory of dolomitisation in its general application .
Admitting various kinds of this phenomenon , they conceive the change in certain well-known cases has been effected by the action of the magnesian constituents of sea water on subjacent beds of limestone ; for example , during the closing portion of the Triassic period , as strongly supported by geological evidences , determined by Ramsay and others , the seas in certain European regions became dried up or reduced ; and their water , loaded with magnesian salts , sank through the subjacent sandstones and marls into the Permian limestones , thus converting them into dolomites .
Irish corroborative cases are mentioned .
The dolomites of the Tyrol are held to have originated in the same way ; but it is admitted to be probable that the predazzite of the Canzacola mountain , Val di Eassa , was dolomite that became hydrated by the heated water which accompanied the eruption of the immediately adjacent and overlying monzonite .
" Serpentinisation effected in deposits without the intervention of mineralisation " is admitted in the production of the magneso-argillite at Vallecas near Madrid , also of that in the Paris Basin , and other localities ; for Sullivan and O'Reilly have shown that it was originally a non-magnesian deposit .
The authors conclude by treating of ( N ) " The Chrono-geological range of Ophites , \amp ; c. , and the age of their methylosis .
" Offering merely possible suggestions as to the age in which this phenomenon took place in what may be regarded as the oldest ophites ( as the subject is beset with considerable difficulties ) , instances referable to secondary periods , as the dolomites and serpentine rocks of the Tyrol , \amp ; c. , are briefly noticed ; but they refer more confidently to the 'methylosed euphotides , \amp ; c. , of Northern and Central Italy , which , having burst through Cretaceous limestone ( alberese ) , Eocene sandstones and schists , have incontestably produced gabbro verde during late Tertiary ages .
Moreover , it would appear , from the discoveries of Achiardi , that argillaceous schists , in Tuscany , are now being serpen-tinised by the action of magnesiated water .
And , taking the wide range of evidences , which have been adduced , into consideration , it can scarcely be doubted that the same process is still in operation in deep-seated rocks , permeated by heated waters .

