]\gt ; III .
On of in a Viscous A. B. by Lord , D. C. Received November 10 , \mdash ; Read November 24 , 1887 .
1 .
THE first problem relating to the motion of a solid body in a viscous liquid which was successfully attacked was that of a sphere , the solution of which was given by Professor STOKES in 1850 , in his memoir " " On the Effec of the Internal Friction of Fluids on Pendulums ' Cambridge Phil. Soc. Trans vol. 9 , in the following cases : when the sphere is performing small oscillations along a straight line ; ( ii .
) when the sphere is constrained to move with uniform velocity in a straight line ; ( iii .
) when the sphere is surrounded by an infinite liquid and constrained to rotate with uniform velocity about a fixed diameter : it being supposed , in the last two cases , that sufficient time has elapsed for the motion to have become steady .
In the same memoir he also discusses the motion of a cylinder and a disc .
The same class of problems , also been considered by NIEYER and BECK , the latter of has obtained the solution in the case of the ste , ady motion of ellipsoid , which moves parallel to any one of its principal axes with uniform velocity .
The oscillations about a fixed diameter , of a sphere which is either filled with liquid is surrounded by an infinite liquid when slipping takes place at the surface of the sphere , forms the subject of ajoint memoir by HELMHOLTZ and PIOTROWSKI .
Very little appears to have been effected with regard to the solution of problems in which a viscous liquid is set in motion in any given manner and then left to itself The solution , when the liquid is bounded by a plane which moves parallel to itself , is given by Professor STOKES at the end of his memoir referred to above ; and the solutions of certain problems of two-dimensional motion have been given by In the present paper I propose to obtain the tion for a sphere moving in a viscous liquid in the following cases:\mdash ; ( i. ) when the sphere is moving in straight line under the action of a constant force , such as gravity ; when the sphel.e is onnded by viscous liquid and is set in rotation , a fixed then left to itself * Clelle , Journ. Math vol. 73 , p. 3 ] .
'Crelle , Journ. Math vol. 81 , p. 62 .
Wissenschaftl .
Abhandl vol. 1 , 1 ) .
1 S 'Quart .
Journ. Matl vol. 17 , p. 90 .
28.5.88 Throughout the present investigation terms involving the squares and products of the velocity will be neglected .
This is of course not strictly justifiable , unless the velocity of the sphere is slow throughout the motion .
If , therefore , the velocity is not slow the results obtained can only be regarded as a first approximation ; and a second } ) tion might be obtained by substituting the values of the component velocities hereafter obtained in the terms of the second order , and endeavouring to integrate the resulting equations .
I do not , however , propose to consider this point in detail .
2 .
In the first place it will be convenient to show that the equations of impulsive notion of a viscous liquid are the same as those of a perfect liquid .
The general equations of motion of a viscous liquid are with two similar equations , where is the kinematic coefficient of viscosity .
If we regard an impulsive force as the limit of a very large finite force which acts for a very short time , and if we integrate the above equation between the limits and , all the integrals will vanish except those in which the quantity to be interated becomes infinite when vanishes ; we thus obtain Putting where is the impulsive pressure any point of the liquid , we obtain , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. , which the same equations as those which determine the impulsive pressure at any point of a perfect liquid . .
Let us now suppose that sphere of radius , is suzrounded by a viscous liquid which is initially at rest , and let the sphere be constrained to move with uniform velocity V , in a straight line .
If the squares and products of the velocity of the liquid neglected , Professor has shown that the current function must satisfy the differential equation 1 ) , ( 1 ) where and .
of a oint referred to the centre of the sphere as A SPHERE IN A VISCOUS LIQUID .
Let be the component velocities of the liquid along and perpendicular to the radius vector ; then , if we assume that no slipping takes place at the surface of the sphere , the surface conditions are , ( 2 ) .
( 3 ) Also , at infinity and must both vanish .
These equations can be satisfied by putting , . . . . .
( 4 ) where and functions of and , which respectively satisfy the equations ( 6 ) The proper solution of ( 5 ) is , which it wil ] be convenient to write in the form , ( 7 ) where is an arbitrary function , which will hereafter be determined .
In order to obtain the solution of ( 6 ) , let us put , where 10 is a function of alone ; substituting in ( 6 ) , and integrating , we obtain , where is the radius of the sphere and A and are the stants of Whence a particular solution of ( 6 ) is .
Integrating this with respect to between the limits and , and then changing into and integrating the result with respect to bhe same limits , we obtain ( 6 ) .
( 0T ) ( 6 ) ( e ) suoI ) aoeJns } se os ( 8 ) os ssod S1 Aloqs Gtqo NOIJiOAT , NO LESSVff ff A SPHERE IN A VISCOUS LIQUID .
and , therefore , The conditions that require that whenco Also the preceding value of satisfies the conditions that .
and should each vanish when ; whence all the conditions are satisfied , and we finally obtain .
( 12 ) The first integral can be evaluated ; in the second put and we obtain 4 .
When the second integral vanishes , whence the initial value of is which is the known value of in the case of a frictionless liquid , as to be the case .
When is very large , we may put in the lower limit of the second integral , which then V- whence .
soo ouIS O ' .
soo aq aq4 qduJI a ssaoOJd @u seq JJno pue aq ( T ) uoJff f moJl P SI uo a sqns JOif .
SI 911$ ' amooaq ?
tHJi NO A SPHERE IN A yIscouS LIQUID .
we obtain where is the mass of the liquid displaced .
Now , if V were constant , we should obtain from ( 13 ) , and , whence .
We must now change into into , and intef:rate the result respect to from to , and we obtain and the equation of motion of the sphere is .
( 15 ) Integrating the definite integral by parts , and remembering that , the result is and , entiating with respect to , ( 15 ) becomes .
( 1C ) Let be the density of the sphere , and let .
A. R. BASSET ON THE MOTION then ( 16 ) becomes .
( 18 ) This is the atio motion sphere , from which or must be ined .
7 .
Up to the present time we have supposed the motion to have commenced from rest , so that .
Let us now suppose that the sphere was initially projected with ) velocity V. In order to obtain the equation of motion in this case we may divide , into two intervals , and , where is a very small quantity , which tely vanishes .
the first interval* let the sphere move from rest under the action of gravity a large constant force , which is equal to , and let the force cease to act .
This force must be such as to produce a velocity , , at the end of the interval , , whence we must have ; and , therefore , ) .
Changing into in ( 18 ) , multiplying by , and ting between the limits and , we obtain .
( 19 ) Now is composed of two parts : a large part which depends upon X , and which is equal to V ll , ; and another which depends upon , and which we shall continue to denote by .
Hence ( 19 ) may be written , ( 20 ) where Now depends on X , therefore vanishes when .
When ' therefore , when Hence , in the limit when vanishes , ( 20 ) becomes , ( 21 ) gcsted in a Rcport this paPer , has been substituted for the of this originally Wl.itten .
A SPHERE IN A yISCOuS LIQUID .
and the value of the acceleration is 8 .
It seems almost hopeless to attempt to determine the complete value of from the preceding equations , but , in the case of many liquids , is a small lantity , and ( 22 ) and ( 23 ) may then be solved by the method of pproximation .
For a first approximation whence ( 23 ) The integral on the right hand side of ( 23 ) cannot be evaluabed in finite terms , and we shall denote it by .
Putting , we obtain ( 24 ) where Now Therefore therefore When is very large we may replace by , and we shall obtain which shows that where Another expression for may be obtained in the form of a series , for \mdash ; . . .
, ( 2C ) moJE ( 88 ) ( I 8 ) ( 08 ) pun 'np 'I EO NOIJiON EHJi NO BSSYtI A SPHERE IN A yIScOuS LIQUID . .
Changing the order of integration , the last integral whence .
, . . .
( 33 ) Substituting this value of in ( 30 ) , we obtain Now , ( 34 ) also , ( 35 ) and , ( 36 ) whence . . . . . . . .
( 37 ) Again , , . . . .
( 38 ) whence ( 31 ) and ( 32 ) finally become MR. A. B. BASSET ON THE MOTION OF e ) , ( 39 ) .
( 40 ) third approximation the values of the acceleration equations determine to a ected vertically downwards with velocity , and velocity the sphere , when it is proj , and allowed to descend under the action of gravity .
If the sphere is ascending the si of must be reversed .
If no forces are in action we must put , an prec the edin equations give the values of and to a first approximation only ; but , on referring ( 22 ) , it will be seen that the values of these quantities to a third approxlmat on may obtained in this case from ( 39 ) and ( 40 ) by changing into and expunging the terms and .
We thus obtain , since , ( 41 ) 9 .
It appears from the preceding equations that the successive terms are multiplied by some power of as well as of .
If is not a very large quantity , and .
velocity of the sphere is not very great , the foregoing equations may be expected to fairly correct results ; but if is a very quanti , it may happen that , notwithstanding the smallness of may be so large that some of the terms neglected may be of equal or greater importance than those retained .
Now , from ( 17 ) , ; if , therefore , the sphere is considerably denser than the liquid , will be small provided be nc .
very small ; but if the sphere be considerably less dense than the liquid , will approximate owards the limit , and this will be very large if be small , and may therefore be large .
On the other hand , it should be noticed that when or is large the quantities and diminish with great rapidity , and it is therefore by no means impossible that the formulae may give a fairly accurate representation of the motion even in this case .
All that we can therefore safely infer is this , that in the case of a sphere ascending or descending in a liquid whose kinematic coefficient of viscosity is small compared with the of the sphere ( all quantities being of course referred to the same units ) , the formulae would give approximately correct results , provided the velocity of the sphere were not too great .
But , in t , he case of small bodies descending in a highly viscous liquid , it is possible that the motion represented by the formulae be very A SPHERE IN A yIsCOuS LIQUII ) .
different from the actual motion ; and if this should turn out to be the fact , the solution of ( 18 ) applicable to this case must be obtained by some different method .
Equation ( 39 ) shows that after a very long time has elapsed the acceleration vanishes , and the motion becomes ultimately steady ; in other words , the acceleration ] due to gravity is counterbalanced by the retardation due to the viscosity of the liquid .
When this state of things has been reached , the terminal velocity of the sphere is This agrees with Professor STOKES'S result , who applies it to show that the viscosity of the air is sufficient to account for the suspension of the clouds .
10 .
We shall now consider the motion of a sphere which is surrounded by an infinite liquid , and which is rotating about a fixed diameter .
We shall begin by supposing that the angular velocity of the sphere is uniform and equal to , and shall endeayour to obtain an expression for the component velocity of the liquid in a plane perpendicular to the axis of rotation , on the supposition that no slipping takes place at surface of the sphere .
Assuming that the motion of the liquid is , it is easily seen that none of the quantities can be functions of , where , and are coordinates referred to the centre of the sphere as origin .
If , therefore , we neglect squares and products of the velocities , the component velocity , , of the liquid , perpendicu ] to plane coutaining the axis of rotation , is determined by the equation and if in this equation we put , where is a function of and only , the equation for is . . . . .
( 43 ) The value of the stress .
unit of area which opposes the motion of the sphere is , where is the radial velocity ; but , since is not a function of , the value of this stress depends solely on that of .
Now Professor STOKES has pointed out tlJat unless the motion of the sphere is exceedingly slow , the motion of the liquid will not take place in planes perpendicular to the axis of rotation , but the velocity of every particle will have a component in the plane containing the particle and this axis .
But Mn A. B. ON THE MOTION OF since this component does not produce any on the motion of the sphere , which it is our object to deterlnine , we may confine our attention solely to the calculation of In addition to ( 43 ) , must satisfy the conditions : At the surface of the sphere for all values of ( ii .
) When for ] yalues of greater than , the radius of the sphere .
Let where is a function of alone ; substituting in ( 43 ) , we obtain the solution of which is whence Integl.ating this with respect to between the limits and , and then changing A into and integrating the result with respect to between the same limits , we Performing the differentiation and then integrating by parts , we shall obtain , ( 43A ) provided and when The surface condition will be satisfied if whence , the constant of integration being determined so that ; this value of also satisfies the condition that when .
We therefore obtain .
( 44 ) A SPHERE IN A LIQUID .
Putting this becomes .
( 45 ) If it follows that when .
When and the lower limit of the definite integral ( 45 ) becomes indeterminate ; but since , in this case , we are to have , it follows that if we put the quantities and must vanish in such a manner when and When we obtain This equation gives the value of after a sufficient time has elapsed for the motion to have become steady , and agrees with Professor STOKES'S result .
11 .
Since the tangential stress per unit of area which opposes the motion of the sphere is the opposing couple is If , therefore , the sphere be acted upon by a couple , , its equation of motion will or , ( 47 ) where When the motion of the sphere commences from rest the value of or will be obtained from ( 45 ) by changing into into , and integrating the result with respect to from to , where is the variable angular velocity of the sphere .
M DCCCLXXXVIIT .
MR. A. B. ON THE MOTION OF Now , Hence , if were uniform we should have Putting , the definite integral , if be small ; whence Changing into , and into , ( 47 ) becomes .
( 48 ) Putting ( 48 ) : .
( 49 ) Now we have supposed the motion to have commenced from rest under the action of the Jple N ; but if the sphere had been set in rotation with angular velocity , and then left to itself , it can be shown in the same manner as in S7 that the equation of motion would be , ( 60 ) A SPHERE IN A yIScOuS LIQUID .
where .
Putting for the last two terms , and integrating , we obtain , ( 51 ) .
( 52 ) For a first approximation we have .
Whence , if , and have the same meanings as in Ss , a second approximation gives , . . . . . .
( 53 ) .
( 54 ) And a third approximation gives , ( 55 ) .
( 56 ) Now we have shown in S8 that Also .
And the value of the last integral in ( 56 ) is given by ( 38 ) ; whence 1111 .
A. 13 .
BASSET ON ] ] MOTION which determines the value of the angular velocity as far as 12 .
HELMHOLTZ and PIOTROWSKI discovered from their experiments that in the case of many liquids slipping takes place at the surface of the solid ; when this happens , the surface condition is ( 58 ) where is the coefficient of sliding friction .
Putting , we obtain from ( 43A ) provided , and and are zero when Equation ( 58 ) will be satisfied if the solution of which is where and are the roots of the equation .
( 59 ) The roots of ( 59 ) will be real if , that is , if .
Now , if there is no slipping , will be infinite , and therefore , when there is comparatively little slipping , will be large , and this relation will be satisfied unless is small or is large ; on the other hand , if there were no friction between the surface of the sphere and the liquid , would be zero , but it seems improbable that an liquid exists which possesses the property of viscosity with regard to the internal motion of it , particles , and which at the same time is of exerting any action in the nature of friction against surfaces with which ib is in contact .
If therefore were zero , would probably A RE IN A yIsCOuS LIQUID .
( il a'lso be zero , and the liquid would be frictionless .
We shall therefore assume that the roots of ( 59 ) are real .
The constants A snd must be determined from the condition whence , also this value of satisfies the conditions that , and should vanish when : whence the value of is .
( 60 ) 13 .
We shall lastly consider the motion of liquid contained within a sphere , which is rotating about a fixed diameter , when there is no slipping , and when the angular velocity is uniform .
In this case must satisfy the differential equation ( 48 ) , and also the condition of S10 ; but ( ii .
) becomes when for all values of : also we have third condition , viz. , that the velocity must be finite at the centre of the sphere .
A particular solution of ( 43 ) , subject to the condition of finiteness at the origin , is whence if and are any quantities which are independent of and , a solution of ( 43 ) is If we put , the double integral when is equal to .
by FOURIER'S theorem , for all values of between and .
If we put the integral when is zero for all of which do not lie and The solution of the problem is therefore contained in the formula , ( 61 ) .
A. B. BASShT ON THE MOTION where A is a constant , which , ether with the function , must be determined so as to satisfy the conditions of the problem .
14 .
Thouo.h I am convinced that a solution of the problem exists in the form of a definite , I have not succeeded in obtaining it ; and therefore subjoin a solution of a different character .
Let denote the spherical function ; then a solution of ( 43 ) , subject to the condition of finiteness at the origin , is , . . . .
( 62 ) when for all values of , whence , . . . . .
( 63 ) and the different values of are the roots of ( 63 ) .
Initially , whence .
Let and be different roots of ( 63 ) , and let , then , since satisfies the equation we obtain , since by ( 63 ) , and both vanish where , we obtain , ( 65 ) provided and are different .
To find the value of the integral where , let ; then from ( 64 ) or , , { 66 where the accents denote differentiation with respect to ; whence A SPHERE IN A VISCOUS LIQUID Therefore and whence the velocity of the liquid , which is equal to , can be found .
When the angular velocity is variable , the value of the retarding couple , and the equation of motion of the sphere , can be obtained by a process analogous to that employed in S11 .
[ March 10th , 1888.\mdash ; Since this paper was read , a has been published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Mathematics , Mr. WHITEHEAD , in which he attempts to develope a method of obtaining approximate solutions of problems relating to the motion of a viscous liquid , when the terms inyolving the squares and products of the velocities are retained ; and he applies his method ( see p. 90 ) to obtain expressions for the components in the plane passing through the axis of rotation , of the velocity of a viscous liquid , which surrounds a sphere which is rotating about a fixed diameter , when.the motion has become steady .
It will be observed , however , that the expressions for these components contain the coefficient of viscosity as a ctor in the denominator , and therefore become infinite when the liquid is frictionless .
It would therefore appear that tho method of approximation adopted is to the problem considered .
] *Vo ] .
, p. 78 .

