A paper was read , " On the Caves and Fissures in the Western District of the Mendip Hills .
" By the Rev. David Williams , A.M. F.G.S. , Rector of the parishes of Bleadon and Kingston-Seamoor , in the County of Somerset .
Communicated by Davies Gilbert , Esq. V.P.R.S. The first cavern described in this paper is situated at Uphill , at the very western extremity of the Mendip Hills .
Its present entrance is about midway in a mural face of transition limestone , about a hundred feet high .
The fissure leading into it is nearly vertical , and was discovered by some quarry-men casually intersecting it .
Some bones and teeth being found there , the author was induced to pursue the exploration of the fissure ; in the course of which he discovered bones of the rhinoceros , hyaena , bear , ox , horse , hog , fox , polecat , rat and mouse , and also of birds .
The bones of the animals of the larger species were so gnawed and splintered , and evidently of such ancient fracture , that no doubt could exist of the cave having been ahyeena 's den , similar to Kirkdale and Kent 's Hole .
All the ancient remains were found in the upper regions of the fissure , and were so firmly imbedded in the detritus , as not to be extracted without difficulty with the pick-axe .
Further on he found a wet tenacious loam , abounding with an innumerable quantity of bones , belonging exclusively to birds .
After working six days he came to a cavern , ten or twelve feet high , extending about forty feet from north to south , and varying from eight to twenty feet from east to west ; the floor of which was covered with bones of sheep : and on digging into the mud and sand of which it consisted , the bones of sheep , birds , cuttle-fish , and foxes , were disco ?
vered .
Some fine stalactites depended from the roof , and partial spots of stalagmite appeared on the floor .
In a fissure that branched from the mouth of the main entrance there were found , among the sand , a piece of black Roman pottery , and two coins , one of Didius Julianus , and the other of Julia Mammaea , together with bones of sheep , cuttle-fish , foxes , and birds .
The author considers that there exist evidences of the operation of water at three distinct periods of time : ?
the first indicated by the bones of the hyaena , and the other gnawed bones firmly im ?
bedded in the diluvial detritus : the second , when sand was depo ?
sited by the sea in the second fissure , that washed in through the vertical chimney , and that inundated the whole valley up to Glastonbury : the third irruption of the sea occurring within these fifteen hundred years , and choking up the adit from the level by which the sheep andfoxes hadentered , floating in the bones of the cuttlefish , and depositing the thin crust of mud which covered the sand .
The coins and pottery he supposes tohave been introduced through this entrance from the level .
The author next gives an account of the Hutton caverns , situated on the northern escarpment of the range , commonly called Bleadon Hill .
This cavern had been discovered some time ago and noticed by Mr. Catcott in his " Treatise on the Deluge : " but afterwards it became inaccessible by the falling in of the roof and sides .
The author , led by some indications of pieces of ancient bones in the rubbish of some old pits , sought for this cavern by sinking a shaft , and succeeded in opening into it .
The chambers he reached are probably the western extremity of a very extensive range of ca ?
verns , occurring in a region bearing marks of great disturbance , abounding in chasms and fissures , and containing a great number of bones .
The principal of those discovered belong to the elephant , tiger , hyaena , wolf , boar , horse , fox , hare , rabbit , rat , mouse , and bird .
No trace of the bones of the ox were discovered here , although in the cave at Banwell Hill , about a mile distant , they abound ; while , on the other hand , no vestige of the horse is met with .
Among the remarkable specimens found in the Hutton caverns were the milk-teeth and other remains of a calf elephant about two years old , and those of a young tiger just shedding its milk-teeth ; and also the molares of a young horse that were casting their coronary surfaces j ?
the remains of two hyasnas of the extinct species ; and two or three balls of album graecum .
The Banwell caves , lying about a mile to the east of Hutton , are next described .
They are the property of the present Bishop of Bath and Wells 5 and contain remains of the bear , wolf , fox , deer , and ox .
Ofthe bear there are at least two species ; one of which appears to be the Ursus spclceus of Blumenbach , and must have been an animal of immense size and strength .
These remains were , in general , not associated according to the animals they belonged to , but indiscriminately dispersed : thus the head of a bear lay by the femur of an ox , and the jaw of a wolf lay by the antler of a deer .
Hence the author infers that these bones , after accumulating for ages , were carried in by a tumultuous rush of waters , and mingled together before their final deposition .
He concludes that the several animals whose remains are deposited in the Banwell and Burlington caves belonged to a very different age and period from those found at Hutton and Uphill .
An account is also given of two caves at Burrington Coomb , lying about six miles to the east of Banwell , in one of which , though similar in appearance to the caves already described , no ante ?
diluvian remains of animals have been found .
Several human skeletons , and flint knives and celts , were discovered there by Mr. Williams ; from which it has been inferred that it had formerly been used as a burying-ground .
In the upper caverns , remains of thebcar , elk and polecat , were discovered ; the two former evidently of the extinct species .

