416 Capt. W. de W. Abney .
On [ Feb. 10 , February 10 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them . . .
The Right Hon. Mountstuart Elphinstone Grant Duff was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Influence of the Molecular Grouping in Organic Bodies on their Absorption in the Infra-red Region of the Spectrum .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Lieutenant-Colonel Festing , R.E. Received February 5 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The authors describe the apparatus used by them in their research and their plan of mapping the absorption spectra , the results being given in wave-lengths .
The source of light for obtaining a continuous spectrum was the incandescent positive pole of an electric light , the electricity being generated by ah M. Gramme machine .
The light was passed through tubes containing the fluid , and the absorption spectra photographed in the infra-red region .
The absorptions they met with they class as follows:\#151 ; 1st .
General absorption at the least refrangible end of the spectrum .
_ .
f Fuzzy .
Lines ..in , t bnarp .
rBoth edges sharply defined .
Bands . .
\lt ; One edge sharply defined .
[ Both edges less sharply defined .
The authors next discuss the causes of the different absorptions met with in various fluids .
From experiment they show that a large number , of lines which are formed in hydrocarbons containing no oxygen are common to substances containing hydrogen and no carbon , and that in carbon tetrachloride and carbon disulphide , no lines or bands are to be met with , By this eliminating process they deduce the fact that the presence of lines is due to the hydrogen in the bodies .
1881.1 Influence of Molecular , tyc .
They stow that the termination of the bands in liquids containing carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen corresponds with the position of these hydrogen lines .
It therefore appears to them that the bands are in reality a blocking out of radiation between two hydrogen lines .
By increasing the thickness of the fluid in front of the slit , the bands may be widened to another hydrogen line , each hydrogen line acting as a stepping-stone , or they may remain constant if both edges are defined , or they may be obliterated by general absorption .
On the other hand , lines may be spread out to bands as the thickness of liquid is increased .
When the thickness of the fluid is diminished the lines may disappear , and the bands become lines , or the bands may remain constant though fainter .
The authors then point out that each radical has its own definite absorption in the infra-red , and that such a radical can be detected in a more complex body .
It also seems possible that the hydrogen which is replaced may be distinguished by a comparison with other spectra .
They next point out coincidences between some of the lines obtained , the absorption spectra of the hydrocarbons , and the spectra of bodies containing no carbon with solar lines , from which they reason that at present it is not safe to infer that such lines in the solar spectrum are not necessarily due to water .
Whether the lines mapped are due to hydrogen or not , it is perfectly evident that every organic body has a definite absorption spectrum which connects it with some series .
The paper closes with an appendix giving tables of the bands and lines found in the following substances , of which also there are maps :\#151 ; Methyl iodide .
Ethyl sulphide .
Acetoacetic ether .
Ethyl iodide .
Aldehyde .
Diethyl acetoacetic ether .
Propyl iodide .
Paraldehyde .
Benzylethyl ether .
Amyl iodide .
Eormic acid .
Methyl salicylate .
Phenyl iodide .
Acetic acid .
Cinnamic alcohol .
Ethyl bromide .
Propionic acid .
Phenylpropyl alcohol .
Amyl bromide .
Isobutyric acid .
Dibenzyl acetic ether .
Methyl alcohol .
Valerianic acid .
Allyl alcohol .
Ethyl alcohol .
Glycerine .
Allyi sulphide .
Propyl alcohol .
Benzene .
Anethol .
Isopropyl alcohol .
Phenyl bromide .
Citraconic anhydride .
Isobutyl alcohol .
Benzyl chloride .
Water .
Pseudobutyl alcohol .
Nitrobenzole .
Nitric acid .
Amyl alcohol .
Aniline .
Hydrochloric acid .
Diethyl ether .
Dimethyl aniline .
Sulphuric acid .
Amyl ether .
Turpentine .
Ammonia .
Ethyl nitrate .
Olive oil .
Chloroform .
Ethyl oxalate .

