III .
" On Vacua as indicated by the Mercurial Siphon-Gauge and the Electrical Discharge .
" By J. P. GASslOT , Esq. , F.R.S. Received January 19 , 1860 .
That the varied condition of the stratified electrical discharge is due to the relative but always imperfect conidition of the vacuum through which it is passed , is exemplified by the changes which take place in the form of the strive while the potash is heated in a carbonic acid vacuum-tuibe .
In order , if possible , to measure the pressure of the vapour , I had a carefully prepared siphon mercurial gauge sealed into a tube fifteen inches long , at an equal distanice between the two wires A , B. -is ub ws ha ii J _coi ih sr This tube vas chareged withcarbonic aci [ I n the muannter described by me in a former communication .
When exhausted by the air-pump and sealed , it showed a pressure indicated by about 05 inch difference in the level of the mercury ; the potash was then heated ; the mercury gradually fell , until it became perfectly level .
Dr. Andrews ( Phil. Mag. February 1852 ) has shown , that with a concentrated solution of caustic potassa , he obtained with carbonic acid a vacuum with the air-pump so perfect as to exercise no appreciable tension , as no difference in the level of the mercury in the siphon-gauge could be detected .
On trying the discharge in the vacuum-tube after the potash had cooled , I found it gave the cloud-like stratifications , with a slight reddish tinge ; consequently not only was the vacuum not perfect , as denoted by the form of stratification , but in this tube the colouir denotes that even a trace of air renlaiins , -probably that portion in the narrow part of the siphon.-gauge , which , from its position , was not displaced by the carbonic acid .
The potash was subsequently heated until the discharge was reduced to a wave-line , with very narrow strie ; in this state moisture is seen adhering to the sides of the tube ; but evenl in this state the difference in the level of the mercury in the gauge did not ever vary more than 05 inch .
As the potash cooled , the discharge altered through all the well-known phases of the strive , the mercury again becoming quite level .
At first almost the slightest heat applied to the potash alters the form of the stratifications ; as the heating is repeated , longer application is necessary ; but it shows how sensibly the electrical discharge denotes the perfection of a vacuuiim , which cannot be detected by the ordinary irmethod of mercurial siphon-gauge .

