]\gt ; The Excitation of -Rays by the of Ionium and diothorium .
By J. CHADWICK , M.Sc .
, Beyer Fellow of the University of Manchester , and A S. RUSSELL , M.A. , Carnegie Research Fellow of the University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received January 25 , \mdash ; Read February 13 , 1913 .
) In t.oducilon .
It has been shown by one of us*that the -rays of radium , wl en they impinge upon matter , excite a small but detectable amount of -radiation- Owing to the presence of the intense primary -radiation whioh accompanies the -rays of radium , however , a detailed investigation of this excite -radiation was not possible .
With an intense source of ionium placed at our disposal by Prof. Rutherford it has been possible for us , not only ) show clearly that -rays are excited by the -rays of ionium , but also , to the absence of products emitting and -rays , to make a detailed study of the nature of this excited -radiation .
The results of these experiments are given in this paper .
We have found also that -rays are emitted from radiothorium , and a short of the work which led to this result is given here also , although , as will be explained later , it was not possible for us to make a systematic study of their nature .
The from Iomum .
The preparation of ionium used in these experiments consisted of a mixture of the oxides of thorium and ionium separated by Prof. Boltwoocl from the " " actinium residues\ldquo ; loaned by the Royal Society to Rutherford .
Its activity was such that 1 .
expelled -particles per second , i.e. 1 .
of the mixture contained a quantity of ionium equivalent to the amount of ionium in radioactive equilibrium with of radium .
The quantity of oxide used in most of the experiments weighed It is obvious that if definite evidence of the existence of -rays from ionium is required , the ionium in the mixture must be freed from every trace of bodies which emit or -radiations .
Besides thorium and iouium , the preparation contained all the products of the thorium series , and , in addition , radium and its products .
The radium had , of course , been * Chadwick , ' Phil. Mag 1913 , vol. 25 , p. 193 .
and -rays , measured under the same conditions as before : purification , was now 13 divisions per minute .
The activity remained practically constant for a period of 10 days , showing that it could not be due to radium or any other of the products of radium .
equal weight of old commercial thorium treated by exactly the same chemical methods , when measured immediately after purification , was found to be quite free from and -rays .
A month later , when the thorium X and its products had been formed in equilibrium amount , the activity due to the and -rays was only 2 divisions per minute .
The -ray activity of the ionium preparation cannot therefore be ascribed to the thorium that it It was thought not impl.obable that some unknown product enutting -rays might have been inally present , and a small portion of it still remained unseparated from the ionium .
The preparation was therefore into solution as before , precipitated three times with ammonia , and once with meta-nitrobenzoic acid , and finally ignited .
It was found that the -ray activity of the preparation had not been changed appreciably by this second series of chemical operations .
It was concluded from these experiments that this and -radiation must be due , either to the ionium itself , or to some unknown product which is chemically very similar to it .
A detailed study of the rays was then commenced .
A large electroscope of the ordin type , 17 cm .
cm , , was placed immediately above -Rays by the -Rays of Ionium and Radiothorium .
219 the pole pieces of a very powerful electromagnet .
The base of the electro- scope was of lead in which was cut an opening 10 cm .
cm .
, covered by very thin aluminium foil .
The faces of the pole pieces were 10 cm .
cm .
, and 9 cm .
apart .
They were covered with thick cardboard to minimise diffuse reflection of and -rays from them .
The active material was .
placed between the pole pieces at a distance of 9 cm .
below the base of the electroscope .
It was in the form of a film spread evenly over an area of about 15 sq .
cm .
on a shallow platinum dish .
Under these conditions the in the electroscope due to and -rays was divisions per minute .
When a etic field of about 1000 gauss was applied , the leak in the electroscope was 12 divisions per 1ninute .
The -ray activity of a film of uranium oxide , measured under the same conditions , was reduced by the same netic field to less than 1 per cent. The activity of 12 divisioDs per minute due to the ionium preparation must therefore be due to -rays .
Only 10 per cent. of the total activity can be due to -rays , and this small amount may be due entirely to -rays from thorium products , though probably part at least is due to the ionium .
It is to note that Boltwood , discoverer of ionium , stated that ionium emitted -rays as well as -rays .
Keetman showed , however , thaC these rays were due entirely to the presence of uranium X , which , non-separable from ionium , had been separated with it by Boltwood from the mineral .
Keetman , working with an ionium preparation comparable in intensity with ours , found no evidence of any radiation more than -rays .
His failure to detect the -rays must be ascribed to lack of sensitiveness of his methods of measurement .
The amount of -radiation from ionium is very small , and of quite a erent order , relative to the amount of -radiation , from that of a product emitting both and -rays such as radium C. The amount , however , is of the same order as that excited by the -rays of radium when they impinge upon matter .
Not only is the value of the to ratio abnormally low , but the to ratio is abnormally .
The ratio of the ionisations due to the and the -rays from a radio-element in an ordinary electroscope is in the most favourable case 1/ 50 .
In the case of ionium this ratio is at least 10 .
The existence of a new product , therefore , and -rays in this proportion , and chemically difficult to separate from ionium , is in the highest degree improb- able .
For these reasons it musG be concluded that the -rays from ionium are excited by the -rays , either the ionium itself , or in the surrounding atoms of thorium .
Boltwood , ' Amer .
Journ. Sci 1908 , vol. 22 , p. 537 .
Ksetman , ' Jahr .
tivitat , ' 1909 , vol. 6 , p. 269 .
FIG. 1 .
is not detectable after it has passed rough 0 cm .
of aluminium , and thethird , , of a small amount of a still harder type which can be detectecL even after it has passed hrough 4 cm .
aluminium .
The absorption of each type has been studied separately , and the absorption curves obtained are given in figs. 2 , 3 , and 4 below .
Absorption of the Softest Type.\mdash ; The active preparation was placed 9 cm .
below the electroscope , and the aluminium used for absorbing was laid directly on the preparation .
The sheets were very thin , each weighing .
per square centimetre .
After 12 of these sheets had been laid on , all the softest type of radiation had been completely absorbed .
The ionisation is then due to the two remaining types of rays .
Measurements .
* made with more than 12 sheets showed that each of the next few sheets beyond this amount absorbed about division per minute .
This remaining radiation is really absorbed exponentially , but , owing to the extremely small absorption taking place in so small a thickness , it is approximately linear .
It is , therefore , a simple matter to calculate the ionisation due to the rays which penetrate lsheets , hickness hanthis fifferent sheets aiven isheets.alues ofthird column oable I below .
In the first column is given the number of the sheets useci for absorbing , in the second the total ionisation measured , and in the fourth theionisation due to the softest type alone .
From these results a value of mass absorption coefficient ) in aluminium of about 500 is obtained .
Values deduced from other curves obtained in this way varied from to Table I. It is apparent from these values of for the softest type of rays , that a large proportion of these rays must be absorbed in the active material itself , .
and in the air between the electroscope and the active material .
A film of a small quantity of the material should , therefore , give an ionisation due to the soft rays large compared with that due to the other types .
About 25 .
of the active material , in the form of chloride , was carefully evaporated to dryness in a large platinum dish .
The film was about 20 sq .
cm .
in area .
When placed about 2 cm .
underneath the base of the electroscope , its activity was divisions per minute , 50 of which were due to the soft -rays , and the remainder , it was found , due chiefly to -rays .
It is seen from these results that the activity of the soft -rays has been increased very much by preparing the substance in a thin film .
Because of the proximity of the preparation to the electroscope , the -rays could not be deflect'ed away from the electroscope .
After correcting for their absorption , the absorption curve shown in fig. 2 was obtained .
It is seen that it is exponential within the error of measuremenb .
The value of obtained from this experiment .
Messrs. Chadwick and Russell .
Exeitation of [ Jan. 25 ; was 520 .
The leak due to these soft rays measured , under these special conditions , but at a distance of 9 cm .
from the electroscope , as mentioned above , was divisions per minute , i.e. 32 per cent. of the total ionisation .
Absorption of the Hardest Type.\mdash ; The absorption of the hardest type of radiation was determined very carefully over a range of thickness of 1 to 5 cm .
aluminium .
The leak due to this radiation if unabsorbed by aluminium was only division per minute , so that the determination of the absorption coefficient is by no means easy .
The absorption curve is shown in fig. 3 .
It is seen that the absorption is exponential .
The value of obtained from the curve is Absorption of the Rays of filedium Penetrating Power.\mdash ; The absorption curve of this type of radiation was determined over a range of thickness from that necessary to absorb the softest type totally , to a thickness of 2 mm. , beyond which , as further measurements showed , ths hardest type alone could be detected .
The amount of ionisation , due to the hardest type after traversing any t , hickhess within this range , could be calculated from the data given in the last paragraph .
By making the necessary corrections , the ionisation due to the rays of mediunr penetrating power alone was easily obtained for any thickness , and from these results the curve in fig. 4 was plotted .
The -Rays by the of Ionium Radiothorium .
223 en dium FIG. 4 .
where is known as the Exponential Integral : and is mean values of for the three )types of radiation , after correcting for the obliquity of the beam , are given in Table II .
Table II .
Radiation .
I. Soft type II .
Medium III .
Hard type Aluminium .
It is well that the value of lor any metal and for any -radiation that is absorbed exponentially varies somewhat according to the particular disposition used for measuring the absorption .
The -rays of radium , for instance , have a value of in aluminium of when the absorbing material is laid directly over the source and the base of the electroscope is 1 cm .
of lead , and when the absorbing material * Soddy ( F. and W. M. ) and Russell , ' Phil. Mag 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 725 .
King , ' Phil. Mag 1912 , vol. 23 , p. 242 .
See Russell , ' Jahr .
Radioaktivitat , ' 1912 , vol. 9 , p. 444 .
-Rays the a-Rays of Ionium .
225 itself the base of the electroscope .
The absorption of the hard -rays of radium was therefore investigated under the same conditions those used for the absorption of the ionium rays .
A plate of lead , cm .
thick , was laid immediately over a source of radium bromide .
This absorbs all the soft -radiation .
Immediately over this lead plate were laid the plates of * aluminium .
After correcting for the obliquity of the beam the value of for aluminium was found to be , which agrees very satisfactorily with 4 the values obtained for ordinary dispositions .
The ) of given in Table 2 may therefore be used in making quantitative comparison of the penetrating ers of the rays of ionium with those of X-radiations and -radiations , measured in the usual way .
No radiation more penetrating than the hard type whose coefficient is given in Table II is .
given out in detectable amount by the ionium preparation .
Relative of the Three of Radiation .
A rough calculation of the relative energies of these three types of radiation has been made .
The calculation is necessarily , for it involves assumptions which at present , the lack of data , cannot be verified .
If we assume , however , that the absorption of any of these types of radiation is , weight for , the same in aluminium as it is in air , and secondly , that the ionisation in air is proportional to the absorption , an approximate idea of the relative energies of the three types can easily be obtained .
It is probable that neither of these assumptions is strictly true , but it not likely that they are sufficiently erroneous to lead us to an entirely wrong result .
In making the calculation , account must be taken of absorption in the active material itself , in the air between the material and the base of the electroscope , and in the base of the electroscope .
The fraotion of the energy spent in the air of the electroscope is readily calculated from the dimensions of the electroscope and the absorbability of the radiation in air .
When the active material , weighing , and uniformly spread over a surface of 15 sq .
cm .
, was 9 cm .
from the electroscope , only 3 per cent. of the total soft -radiation escaped from the material .
Only per cent. of this amount is able to enter the electroscope and produce ionisation .
In doing so the radiation is totally absorbed .
The ionisation produced was 4 divisions per minute .
The total unabsorbed radiation would , therefore , produce , i.e. 15,000 divisions per minute .
Of the medium type of rays , 68 per cent. emerge from the material ; per cent. of this amount entels the electroscope , and 16 per cent. of this is absorbed in ionising .
The produced was divisions that prol ) ably the -rays of radioactive bodies are the charactelistic radiations of these bodies .
The characteristic radiations of ] ements of high atomic weight have been investigated in detail by Chapman .
He finds that the characteristic X-radiation of thorium , in what Barkla has called series , has a mass absorption coefficient in aluminium of .
This is so far the only characteristic radiation which has been found for thorium .
since the atomic weight of thorium is , and that of ionium is 230 , the characteristic -radiations of these elements will probably differ so little in penetrating power that it would be difficult to distinguish between them .
It will be noticed that this characteristic -radiation of thorium has approximately the same value of as the medium type of -radiation ( II ) found for ionium .
It is therefore natural to suppose that all three types of -radiation are characteristic radiations , either of thorium or of ionium , of different series .
Types I and III belong to no series of characteristic -rays at present known .
It is probable that type III belongs to a series intermediate between series and , while type I belongs to a series or in Barkla'sS nomenclature .
It is of interest to * Gray , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 87 , p. 489 .
Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag 1912 , vol. 24 , p. 453 .
Chapman , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 86 , p. 4$9 .
S Barkla , ' PhiL Nag 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 396 .
-Rays by the a-Rays of Ionium .
227 rote that , from Rutherford 's theory of the constitution of the atom and the mode of production of the -rays , it is to be expected that characteristic radiations of several different series are capable of being produced in the atom by suitable agencies .
The number of different types of radiation and their relative intensities would vary with the nature of the exciting agency and with the structure of the atom .
The question whether these -radiations are excited in the ionium atom .
itself , or in the surrounding atoms of thorium , is at present quite an open \amp ; : : one .
One would naturally suppose that , whatever the mechanism of excitation may be , the chance of producing a -ray would be much greater inside the atom emitting the -ray than in any other atom .
If , however , a large part of .
the radiation is excited in the thorium atom , it is bo be expected that some radiation would be excited in the platinum upon which the active material is placed .
To test this point the active material was : translerred to a paper dish equal in area to the platinum dish , and the intensity of the radiation measured for different thicknesses of aluminium .
No certain difference in the radiation could be detected .
This result does not prove that no radiation was excited in the platinum , for , taking Chapman 's value of for the characteristic -radiation of platinum , it was calculated that 85 per cent. of the radiation would be absorbed in the active material before it reached the electroscope .
This important point can be settled by making experiments with the source of -rays exciting the -rays in the form of a very thin film .
We hope to do this by depositing a thin film of polonium on different metals , and determining the quality of the -radiation in each case .
-Rays from A quantity of thorium oxide containing radiothorium equivalent in -ray activity to mglm .
radium bromide was purified from all and -ray products by the following method .
The oxide was obtained in solution by the same methods used for ionium .
The active thorium hydroxide was completely freed from thorium X by repeated precipitations with ammonia .
It was then dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and to this solution was added some lead nitrate and some bismuth nitrate .
No precipitate was allowed to form in this solution .
The lead and bismuth were precipitated as sulphides by .
The sulphides contained all the thorium and thorium C. The filtrate containing the radiothorium was evaporated on a water bath till all fumes were driven off .
The solution was acidified , some lead and bismuth salt in solution added to it , and again passed through it .
This operation removes the VOL. LXXXVIIL\mdash ; A. and -radiation is due , of course , to the thorium , and , formed by the thorium X grown from the radiothorium .
The fact tRat the to -ray $ ratio varies so considerably ths first after preparation , shows that there is some body present initially which emits a much greater proportion of -rays to -rays than the products grown from the radiothorium .
: body must be radiothorium .
If this body emitted -rays only , the ratio of to -rays would be constant with time , no matter how much thorium X and subsequent products were present with it after partial purification .
Some weeks later the radiothorium was again purified as oarefully as possible , and again a small amount of -radiation was found to be " " nonseparable\ldquo ; from it .
The amount of -radiation emitted by radiothorium is of the same order as that emitted by ionium when preparations of equal -ray activity are measured under the same conditions .
No absorption measurements of this .
-radiation have been undertaken , partly on .
account of the small amount , of it , and partly because of the rapid formation of products expelling intense and -radiation .
It is at present difficult to say whether the small -radiation emitted by radiothorium is due to that body , or to a product grown in the time which elapses between the last precipitation and the first measurement .
It is plain that the discovery of the excitation of by tays haa by the Ionium and .
229 opened up a new and interesting field of work , the results of which should have an important bearing , not only on the theory of the nature of the -rays and their mode of excitation in atoms , but also on the theory of the constitution of the atom .
We are continuing this work by studying in detail the and -radiations emitted by polonium , radium , and other -ray products .
Summary .
( 1 ) The work on the excitation of -rays by -rays has been extended to ionium .
It is shown that the -rays of ionium excite -radiation , and the nature of this exoited -radiation has been studied in detail .
There is also some slight evidence of the excitation of -rays .
( 2 ) The -radiation from ionium consists of three types .
The first of these has a value of in aluminium of 400 , the second of , and the third of .
The energy of the radiation is mainly confined to the softest type .
( 3 ) It is probable that these three radiations are characteristic radiations , either of thorium or of ionium , of different series .
( 4 ) Radiothorium emits also a small quantity of -radiation , too small , however , to be studied in detail with the quantity of active material at our disposal .
We wish here to express our great indebtedness to Prof. Rutherford , not only for the valuable preparations he has placed at our disposal , but also for his stimulating interest and advice throughout the whole course of the work .

