Experimentsand Observations on certain Stony and Metalline Substances , which at different Times are said to have fallen on the Earth ; also on various Kinds of native Iron .
By Edward Howard , Esq. F.R.S , Read February 25 , 1802 , [ Phil. Trans. 1802 , p. 168 .
] In considering the copious contents of this paper , we shall find it convenient to distribute them under the four following heads : 1 , The historical part ; 2 .
The descriptive part ; 3 .
The analytical part ; and 4 .
General observations on the subject , and a comparison of these stones with other substances which seem to bear some affinity to them .
And , First , as to the historical part .
Waving all former accounts , both of the ancients and moderns , of stones which , under the names of Ceraunia , Betilia , Ombria , Brontia , BelemnitFe , &amp;c. were supposed to have fallen from heaven , of which accounts most are disproved , and others are involved in inexplicable obscurity , we may lay some stress on the instances adduced by Mr. King , in his late tract " concerning stones which are said to have fallen from the clouds ; " and also on the evidence of the Abbd Bachelay , who laid before the French Royal Academy a stone , which he asserted had been found on the 13th of September , 1768 , still hot , by persons who saw it fall ; and that of Professor Barthold , who analysed and described a stone found near Ensisheim in Upper Alsace , under the unqualified name of Pierre de Tonnere .
These observations and experiments of the Abb6 and the Professor are here quoted at some length ; as our author proposes to draw a comparison between their results , and those he deduces from his own investigation .
The instances next in succession , and which are the principal objects of this paper , are : 1 The several stones , about twelve in number , which in the year 1794 were seen by several persons falling from the clouds near Sienna , in the midst of a violent thunder-storm , and eighteen hours after an enormous eruption of Mount Vesuvius .
As an ample account of this extraordinary pheenomenon is printed in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1795 , it will be needless to dwell here any longer upon it , than merely to observe that these stones are of a quality not found in any part of the Siennese territory ; and that as to their being of volcanic origin , it is scarce credible that they could have been carried in the air to a distance of at least two hundred and fifty miles .
2 .
The second instance is that of the stone , weighing no less than fifty-six pounds , which , according to the attestation of several persons who profess themselves eye-witnesses , fell on the 13th of December , 1795 , near Wold Cottage in Yorkshire , and was , when extracted from the depth of about eighteen inches in the earth , still warm , and smoking .
Here too no similar stone is to be met with in any part of that county .
The weather was mild and hazy , but there was no thunder or lightning the whole day .
3 .
The third instance , which comes perhaps better authenticated than .
the two preceding ones , is that of a number of stones which , after the explosion of a meteor on the 19th of December , 1798 , fell about eighteen miles from Benares , in the East Indies .
The account of this phenomenon is given in a very circumstantial manner by John Lloyd Williams , Esq. F.R.S. At the time when the meteor appeared , the sky was perfectly serene , nor had the smallest vestige of a cloud been seen for several days before and after the phrenomenon .
The largest of the stones , of which Mr. Williams had seen eight , weighed 21b .
12oz .
There are no volcanoes on the Continent of India , nor have any stones yet been met with in that part of the world which bear the smallest resemblance to those here described .
Lastly , the fourth instance occurs in the collection of Baron Born , now in the possession of the Right Hon. Charles Greville* .
In Born 's catalogue the specimen here mentioned is described as a mass of iron found near Tabor in Bohemia ; and in a note it is observed that credulous people assert it to have fallen from heaven on the 3rd of July , 1753 : in fact , on comparing it with the Sienna and Yorkshire stones , there appeared sufficient reason to excite a suspicion of its being of the same nature .
We here anticipate the account given in the latter part of the paper of the two enormous masses of a substance which has been considered as native iron , the one weighing about 15 tons , observed in South America , and described by Don Rubin de Celis , whose account is inserted in the Philosophical Transactions for the year ' Since purchased by Governenct , and deposited in the British Museum .
1788 ; and the other discovered in Siberia , and described by Pallas .
This latter the Tartars consider as a sacred relic which had descended from heaven .
II .
For the descriptive part of the four stones which have been analysed by Mr. Howard , we are indebted to the Count de Bournon , who observes in general , that none of them are , or appear ever to have been , of any regular shape ; and that when entire they are all coated with a black crust , the thickness of which however is very inconsiderable .
The Benares stone being that which has the most striking mineralogical characters , obtained the preference in these descriptions , and served as an object of comparison in the account to be given of the others .
The crust already mentioned , which is common to all , is of a deep black colour , and of an uneven surface .
It strikes fire with steel , and frequently contains particles of native iron .
The stone itself when broken is of a grayish ash-colour , and of a granulated texture : it appears evidently to be composed of four different substances ; one of them , which is in great abundance , shows itself in the form of small spherical bodies of various sizes , of a gray colour , sometimes inclining to brown , perfectly opake , and so hard as to give faint sparks when struck with steel .
Another of these substances is a martial pyrites , of a reddish yellow tinge , somewhat inclining to the colour of nickel .
When powdered it is of a black colour , and not attractable by the loadstone .
The third substance consists of small particles of iron , in a perfect metallic state .
These , although they compose only about glvth part of the whole stone , give , however , to the whole mass the property of being attractable by the magnet .
These three substances are united together by means of a fourth as a cement , which is nearly of an earthy consistence , and of a whitish gray .
The specific gravity of the aggregate stone is 3352 .
The constituent parts of the stone from Yorkshire are exactly the same as those of the above , except that its grain is finer , that the globules are more irregular in their shape , that the martial pyrites is in less , and the iron in greater proportion , and that the earthy cement is more compact .
Its specific gravity = 3508 .
The Sienna stone was more similar to that from Benares than the last mentioned ; the particles of iron were in a somewhat greater proportion .
It contained some particles of black oxide of iron ; and likewise one single globule of a vitreous substance , of a pale yellow colour inclining to green , and of a hardness rather inferior to that of calcareous spar .
The specific weight of the aggregate was = 3418 .
Lastly , the stone from Bohemia was most similar to that from Yorkshire , except that it appeared to be totally free from any particles of pyrites , and on the other hand to have a much larger proportion of globules of native iron ; many of which , perhaps , on account of the stone having remained longer in the earth , had undergone a degree of oxidation on their surfaces .
Its specific gravity was = 4281 .
From these descriptions we learn that these stones , though they have not the smallest analogy with any of the mineral substances already known , have a very peculiar and striking resemblance to each other ; a circumstance surely which must excite the attention and stimulate the endeavours of philosophers , and particularly of chemical analysts .
III .
The foremost among these was Mr. Howard , who , in the third part of his paper describes the several methods by which he examined each of the constituent parts of these stones separately , avoiding thereby the mistakes of the Abbe Bachelay and Professior Barthold , who by maling their experiments only upon the stones in the aggregate , obtained of course none biut fallacious results .
The Benares stone being , as Count de Bournon had already mentioned , the most characteristic , was the first he undertook to examine .
In analysing the crustaceous matter , in which some nickel was soon found to be contained , the process led to an investigation of the triple salt , described by Mr. Hermstadt as an ammoniacal nitrate of nickel , which was soon found to be a proper menstruum for discovering the presence of the last-mentioned metal .
The presence of iron and nickel was manifestly discovered in their substance ; but the quantity that could be obtained was so small that it was found impracticable to give the proportions of their constituent parts .
The pyritical part was next examined .
The result of the analysis , the particulars of which cannot be abridged , was , that 16 grains contains iron 102 grains , sulphur 2 grains , nickel nearly 1 grain , and extraneous earthy matter 2 grains : half a grain appears to have been lost in the process , owing probably to the impossibility of reducing the sulphur to the same degree of dryness as it existed in combination with the iron .
The weight of the nickel , too , is a mere estimation , our acquaintance with that metal being as yet too imperfect to speak of it with accuracy , except as to its presence .
The third substance Mr. Howard examined was the native iron disseminated in the mass in small globules .
Having reasonto suspect that some nickel was likewise contained in this substance , he contrived an expedient for estimating its proportion , of which the following is a slight indication:-Finding that 100 grains of pure iron would yield about 145 grains of oxide , it would be a certain proof that the metal contains something which is either volatilized or left in the solution , if , under the same circumstances , it do not acquire the same proportionate weight .
Hence when a metallic alloy of nickel and iron in known proportions is digested in niltric acid , it is plain that the deficiency of weight in the precipitated oxide of iron will be proportionate to the quantity of nickel contained in the alloy .
By this means 25 grains of these metallic globules , being freed from earthy and other extraneous matter , left 23 grains of alloy , which were found to consist of 14 grains of pure iron , and 9 of nickel .
The small spherical bodies , equally dispersed throughout the mass , were the fourth objects of inquiry .
The result of this analysis was , that 100 grains of the substance was decomposed into 50 silica , 15 magnesia , 34 oxide of iron , and 2oxide of nickel .
By summing up these it will be found , that instead of the loss usual on these occasions , there was an excess of weight of 1 grain ; this is ascribed to the oxidizement of the iron .
Lastly , the earthy matter , forming a cement or matrix for the substances already examined , became the subject of investigation ; and the mean result of two analyses gave , in 100 grains of the earth , 48 silica , 18 magnesia , 34 oxide of iron , and 2oxide of nickel .
When we observe that the three other stones were found to contain the same elements as that just now described , only in somewhat different proportions , we may be excused from detaining the Society with the particulars of their several analyses .
Nor shall we here dwell upon Mr. Howard 's manner of reconciling his results with those of the Abb6 Bachelay and Prof. Barthold , any further than to state , that the inferences drawn are favourable to the supposition , that the stones they examined were of the same nature as those here described .
IV .
In this section we collect some of Mr. Howard 's principal observations on this curious subject .
It must be admitted , that notwithstanding the concurring evidence we have of the fall of some of these substances from the atmosphere , yet the fact itself is so repugnant to what we know as yet of the operations of nature , that we are likely to pause a while before we shall venture to form any decided opinion on the subject .
Had the fall of all these stones been attended with meteors , we should naturally combine the two phuenomena ; and in this case Mr. Howard contends , that as these meteors generally move in a direction nearly horizontal , and probably not very high in the atmosphere , the objection of the stones not striking deeper into the earth , owing to their accelerated velocity , would be obviated .
The imperfect knowledge we have of the origin and nature of meteors may likewise be considered as an encouragement for inquiring further into this hypothesis .
Should these masses , after all , turn out to be the effects of some regular and simple operation of nature , it is likely that many more will be found on the surface of the earth , which will become the objects of future inquiry .
Meanwhile , Mr. Howard has thought proper to take a comparative view , not only of the masses of what has been denominated Native Iron in South America and Siberia , but also of every other specimen that could be met with in our collections of the substances that came under the same denomination .
For a description of these substances , together with various observations thereupon , .
we are likewise indebted to Count de Bournon , who seems to think , that were the particles of iron and nickel in the stones here examined so numerous as to be in contact with each other , and were the earthy particles interposed between them wholly destroyed , as may happen by a variety of causes , the ferruginous cellular texture that would remain would be very similar to the native iron of Siberia and South America ; both which have , moreover , by chemical analysis , been found to contain an ample proportion of nickel .
The Count , in describing the Siberian iron , mentions the hard transparent nodules found in the cells of that metal , which bear a great resemblance to the peridot ( chrysolite of Werner ) , the decomposition of which leaves the empty cells which we observe in all the specimens that are brought to us .
Mr. Howard , on analysing these transparent nodules ,

