]\gt ; Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey .
December 16 , 1880 .
THE PRHiSIDENT , followed by C. W. SIEMENS , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On Actinometrical Observations , made in India Mussooree and Dehra October and November , 1879 .
By J. B. N. HENNESSEY .
F.B.S. , Deputy Superintendent .
reat Trigonometrical Survey of India .
Received May 4 , 1880 ( the parts within square brackets August 28 ) .
The present actinometrical observations were taken in , in tinuation of the series of 1869 , published ill the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society vol. 19 ( 1870 ) , pp. 225\mdash ; 234 ; reference is suggested in these pages for such rticulars as are omitted here in order to avoid needless repetition .
The series of 1869 and 1879 were taken under identical circumstances as respects stations of observation , actino .
meters , and observers ; in both instances the work was carried on only in the entire absence of visible cloud or mist between the sun and the observer , and the sun 's declination during the measurements of 1869 was nearly the same as in the observations of 1879 .
Hence the two series , separated by an interval of ten years , are thus highly eligible for comparison with one another ; it may , however , be added that the work of 1879 , now under discussion , is more and systematic than that of the preceding series .
2 .
The two actinometers used are of the kind invented by the Rev. G. C. Hodgkinsoll , and described by him in the " " Proceedings of the Royal Society vol. 15 , p. 321 .
The insbruments are the property of the Royal Society .
To distinguish the instrnments from each other , I marked one with the letter A and the other with , in 1869 ; both are in exactly the same original good condition , including their glass oaps , and I may add in particuIar that the same glasses , and in the same positions , were used in 1879 as in 1869 .
Hence the constants determined and employed in 1869 were also employed on the present occasion ; these constants are as follows:\mdash ; Factor No. 1 for actinometer , to convert results with glass on into results glass off. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
109 On Actinometrical Observations , made in India .
151- ) Factor No. 2 for actinometer , to convert results with glass on into the results glass off . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Factor No. 3 , to express results obtained with actinometer glass on in terms of actinometer A glass . .
All the results given in Tables to VIII , attached , will be ound expressed in terms of for both glass on and glass off , as was done in 1869 ; it will be seen only ors Nos. 1 and 3 enter into this conversion .
The results of Table IX need no such conversion , as for the purpose view they are compared for each instrument with its mean .
The numbers hereafter discussed are all in terms of A glass off .
3 .
The -ordinates of the stations of observations are as follows:\mdash ; Height in feet above -Lat .
N. Long. E. mean sea level .
Mussooree . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dehra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,229 The direct distance is thus about nine miles between the stations , which are nearly on the same meridian and are mutually visible .
The difference of longitude between the two stations is only ) seconds , Mussooree being east of Dehra .
4 .
Dehra is in the Dehra Dun , which is a valley some ten miles wide and about forty miles long , and is bounded on the north by the Himalayas and on the south by the Siwalik range of hills ; at its eastern and western extremities there flow respectively the well known rivers Ganges and Jumna .
The large native town and the civil and military stations of Debra lie west and north of the actinometer station within a distance of some two miles , so the observer at Dehra was unavoidably subject to the disadvantages of the usual smoke and haze envelope which is commonly visible in the winter months over all large towns when seen from a distance , and especially if viewed from a height ; on the other hand , the observer at Dehra was not liable to the disadvantages of strong winds .
5 .
Mussooree is eminently suited for an actinometric station , especially in the autumn .
It stands on almost the highest point of an east and west ridge of hills , which falls precipitately 3,000 or 4,000 feet both north and south , so that the observer is absolutely free from smoke and dust , while the atmosphere in autumn is brilliantly clear .
But the station from its very prominence is liable to brisk breezes , which sometimes blow in strong gusts and always from the south .
From these , however , the observer and instrument were protected by means of a kanat ( or canvas wall , some six feet high , of a tent ) , erected at a distance of a few feet , a protection found to be absolutely necessary , for the actinometer is certainly affected by a breeze , especially if blowing in gusts .
[ It will thus ) seen that while Mussooree is highly eligible , a similar to account for without assuming special conditions .
To this may be added , that distinct mutual visibility between the stations , and the ability at Mussooree to nearly a mile above Dehra , are not without advantages .
] 6 .
The observations with at Dehra were taken by Mr. W. H. Cole , M.A. , those with A at Mussooree and Dehra by myseIf .
* The procedure prescribed in the " " Admiralty Manual of Scientific Enqui17 pp. 129\mdash ; 130 , was exactly followed ( as was done in 1869 ) , whereby the change of reading in 60 seconds is obtained alternately in sun and shade at intervals of 30 seconds ( beginning and ending with observation ; hence in a series of measurements there result of the latter to of .
Ordinarily the average result from a series is found from where stands for the mean radiation , and the brackets denote summation .
We may , however , exhibit the successive alues of radiation for 60 seconds by writing . .
hence ; This difference is very small , ally if the series be continued , so that is large .
Accepting the mean value , its individual results may be conveniently reckoned as if obtained at the mean of the beginning and ending times of successive shade observations ; thus the pth result , or *Excepting on 1st and 2nd November , when Mr. H. W. Peychers See Table IX example .
Corrections to Fahrenheit being understood .
On Actinometrical Observations , made in lndia .
would be tabulated as if to the mean of the bnd ending times of ; no other times need be entered in the table individual results , which may thus be exhibited in a compact and simple form .
7 .
Remembering that the actinometer , as at present constructed , is differential instrument , it desirable to regard the causes , to which the measured changes are due , under separate heads , which may briefly and generally indicated by Instrumental , Local , and Intrinsic or ResiduaL [ These three .
' heads\ldquo ; may be more definitely expressed symbolically .
If stallds for the measured value of change in solar radiation , suppose \amp ; whers stands for that part of due to true or unmodified energy , a quantity which appears unattainable by itself , at least for the present : and are errors by which may be vitiated , so as to become .
Of these errors , Iet stand for the portion due to the instrument and its manipulation , such that I can practically be controlled and eliminated , while may imperceptibly exist combination with : also let denote all the erl'ors appertaining to the locality , i.e. , between the sun the instrument , during the minute of observation , such that , arising from visible or otherwise detectable causes , can be excluded , whiJe , being invisible and beyond endeavours to evade , may also imperceptibly exist in combination with S. Then I and stand respectively for the errors above indicated by " " Instrumental\ldquo ; and " " Local.\ldquo ; Now , if by skill , care , and vigilance , we succeed in making and , and obviously actinometrical vations are worthless unless there be reasonable prospect of securing these conditions , then there remains , V , the quantity , but since by definition and are not visible , nor yet detectable , their presence or absence , in a given result , if generally suspected , can neither be positively affirmed nor denied , king , nor yet estimated .
For their presence I use , as already said , the designation residual ; in their absence , when and the designation ' intrinsic\ldquo ; seems suitable , for now becomes Hence arose the double designation , adopted above , of " " residual whereby provision is made for either assumption , vithont ( VOL. XXXI .
excessive sensitiveness , is still a desideratum , and local causes may not only produce overwhelming effects , but they are so completely beyond estimation or control , that the only remaining alternative is never to observe when they are visible or likely to be present , at any rate if small quantities are the objects of search .
As , however , the necessity for acing the actinometer , so far as practicable , beyond local influences , is now so fully recognised , I need only here dwell on one of the further co1tditions to be secured .
This suggests itself if ] on the score of fallibility and the necessity to collect in general abundant evidence .
On these grounds alone a series of observations should prolonged as much as practicab ] , so as to yield numerous instead only a few results .
Here , however , apart from instrumental inadequacy , we are met under even the most favourable local conditions , by the varying absorptions of our own atmosphere at different zenith distances , and it thus becomes a matter of primary importance to establish a time-range , during which inconstancy of radiation from this cause may be reckoned as certainly , at least so far as the ssnsitiveness of the instrument can detect .
In fact , while { he obser vations at varying zenith distances may eventually yield valuable results for reduction to the local zenith , it appears wiser in the first , .
) !
instance to set aside every complicating cause that can be avoided and to establish a daily time-range of the kind indicated .
* In course of the present ions I have arrived at the conclusion that the presence of strati , even if distant from the sun , sensibly affect the radiation , lvhile cumuli are comparatively innocuous .
The capability to measure minute changes , besides the power it confers , governa the duration of a single exposure , which in turn is the less likely to a#ord means of detecting short solar periodioities , the more numerous the latter are within the duration .
No doubt a contrivance foryielding a continuous curve would leave nothing further to be desired in respect of periodicities , but I not aware that has as yet been achieved , without sacrifice of the essential sensitiveness , ccuracy , and durability .
1880 .
] On Actinometrical Observations , made in India .
8 .
Accordingly , during the present series , this time-range was made of the objects of inquiry ; it would most probably be found to ccupy an equal hour angle , and \mdash ; from the meridian , a point , bowever , which was itseIf included iu the investigation , by providing that the observations should be made continuous for each day .
, the hour angles adopted were Hi .
, and W. , whereby 2 observations in and 20 in would be obtained , yieldten results before , and as many after apparent noon , the tabulation of Article 6 ; always provided that the observer mlssed none of the numerous readings , a which requires some practice to secure ina series exacting continuous attention for so long a period as one hour .
In addition to these daily time-range series , the observers were also to take a long range or hourly series , at every hour , from 8 $o , on two days , each comprising six observations in and five in shade , so arranged that the middle resuIt should occur at the hour .
The whole of the aneous results thus obtained at Dehra and Mussooree are tabulated according to Articl 6 in Table , and may be briefly explained , thus:\mdash ; 9 .
Table times are the means of the times of observations : they are given by preference in entire minutes , to avoid the needless statement of seconds ; but the exact second , or local apparent time , if required , can be readily found by applying to the chronometer time the error in seconds given for each day ; thus , on October the chronometer was fast on apparent time by ; this error will always be found to be under : The angle between the two local meridians is , Mussooree being east of Dehra .
The results in sun , or ( heab gained ) , and those in shade , or ( heat lost ) , are the observed results reduced to Fahrenheit ; from these , for both A and , there ] directly the radiation or on , which , in the case of , was converted , by means of factor No. 1 , Article 2 , into in the case of , the factors Nos. 3 and 1 , were successively employed to express in terms of A respectively glass and glass off .
Thus the whole procedure in reduction was exactly the same as that followed in 1869 .
Further , the means of the resuIts before and after noon are given rately together with the estimate of acculacy cated by their " " mean errors these latter , it need hardly be stated , cannot recognise errors of a constant nature .
The table also includes a of the barometer , and of the thermometers , wet and dry in shade , and black bulb in sun , together with an exact statement as to the wind and aspect of sky .
In all , the observations at Oussooree include 392 in , and 361 in ; those at Dehra , 244 in and 217 in , unavoidably excluding at the latter station several taken on the first four days , because they were beyond means of the table of expansion for alcohol by Kopp in " " Gmelin 's Chemistry 10 .
Table test the constancy of radiation during the timo .
of hour adopted , we might compare the successive indk .
idual resuIts with one another in each half-hour , just as they stand Table ; this comparison , however , would be burdened by elTOIt of single values , which may be reduced with advantage .
To securo this end , 1 subdivide each ] hour into three similar sub-time-ranges , and within these limits I take the mean of all the available results for each day to form a group mean ; hence , each daily series of group means will be six in number , provided the series was letely observed .
The sub-time-ranges adopted , are\mdash ; Before nootl .
, . . . . . . . .
11 SO to 40 After noon . . . . . . . . . . . .
, , 12 Now , each group mean is the mean of three to five individual esults ; the exact numbers of the latter will be found indicated by subscripts .
] ntering the group means in their proper column@ , obtain in the case of Mussooree , fourteen complete series ( omitting the nineteenth , as it supplies only four of the six groups ) ; and , taking the mean for each sub-time-range , we now find mean results from so many as from thirty-eight to sixty-one individual reslllts .
These mean sub- time-range vaJues may be considered practically free from all variations , except those due to intrinsic or residual causes ( Article 7 ) ; no doubt , daiJy instrumental are present , but as the latter wiIl be eliminated in the proposed comparison , inter se , the resuIts in question may be accepted as highly eligible , for the purpose of testing how far the radiation is constant within the hour time-range .
11 .
As regards Dehra , the group resuIts , from accidental causes already explained , present three complete series .
I pass on to notice the exhibits of Tables and VIII before entering on a brief discussion of all the facts .
12 .
Table \mdash ; This table also is compiIed from Table V , and shows , daily , the sun 's meridional zenith distance , and the mean values of radiation for each half-hour time-range , and for the day , together with readings of barometer and thermometers , and declarations as to the wind and aspect of sky at noon .
Finally , individual and mean fferences of radiation , M. .
( i.e. , Mussooree minus Dehra ) , as well as the mean radiation at each station are deduced .
On Actinometrical Observations , made in .
161 13 .
Table VIII .
Table V supplies the materials also for this table , which presents the mean facts of the hourly or long series , taken on the 12th and 14th November , simultaneously , at both the stations of .
Each series furnishes nine mean results , of which the , middle value is noon .
By eomparing the radiation at noon with hourly results for each day , we obtain the defect of radiation from [ inoon corresponding to the change in the sun 's zenith distance .
14 .
, collecting the results from Table for Mussooree , we find the mean sub-time-range values to be\mdash ; No. of Mean esults .
group .
30 to 40 . . . . . .
42 . . . .
957 40 , , 48 . . . . . . . .
40 . . . .
958 . . . . . . . .
55 . . . .
957 mean 957 .
, , 012 . . . . . . . .
61 . . . .
953 012 , .
, . . . . . .
40 . . . .
952 20 30 . . . . . . . .
38 . . . .
mean 9 from which it appears:\mdash ; ( 1 .
) The radiation sensibly constant for each half-hour .
( 2 .
) The radiation , the half-hour noon , exceeds that prevailing during the half-hour after noon ; in the present instance , the excess is only six-tenths of a millimetre , but notwithstanding the smallness of this quantity , it to be real , not accidental .
( 3 .
) Apart from constants , it may be inferred from the accordance of the results that the instrument is susceptible of a degree of accuracy .
Again , the above conclusion ( 2 ) is very decidedly coniirmed by the results for Mussooree , from Table VIII , where the sums of the defects of radiation from the noon value furnish large asures of point in question , and as follows:\mdash ; .
Nov. 14 .
Sums for the four hours before noon . . . . . . . .
287 . . . .
332 after noon . . . . . . . .
386 . . .
392 , , After noon\mdash ; Before noon . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mean ( indicating excess of radiation befr ) noon . .
15 .
The Dehr results in Table are not sufficiently numerous or symmetrical to test the conclusions ( 1 ) to of Article 14 ; in fact , they present but three series of groups ; nor may nplete ser es be admitted in this test , because of the undeniable of variable daily constants .
And with regard to Dehra evidencc1 , iu with similar actinometers .
No doubt , in point of eligibility as $ station , Mussooree is very far superior to Dehra , as already shown , so that small fluctuations may be expected to disappear at the latter , through the dissipation of energy exacted by its denser envelope ; but the sums of the present large measures of comparative radiation before and after noon , and while Mussooree gives a decided preponderance of radiation to the former period , this does not hold at Dehra , as may be thus shown : \mdash ; Nov. 12 .
Nov. 14 .
Sums for the four hours before noon . . . . . . . .
346 . . . .
432 after noon . . . . . . . .
346 . . . .
420 After noon-Before noon . . . . . . . . .
Mean ( indicating excess of radiation before noon ) . . . .
6 This discrepancy in vidence may , however , be fully accounted for by local haze , which is certainly absent at Mussooree , and as undeniably is present at Dehra ; accepting this conclusion , the observations show a fact not without interest , , that at the last-named station the local haze absorbs more heat relatively in the forenoon than in the afternoon , a conclusion which can be snpported by other exhibits from the same table .
And , as regards the inconsistencies in question , whereby the radiation in some instances decreases with of zenith distance , these , also , may to some extent arise from passing , such as are inevitable in the neighbourhood a large town .
But after all these points have been considered , there ill remains the fact that rate " " casts-off\ldquo ; of the instrument likely to be burdened each with a oonstan error , by which the whole series may be affected .
16 .
But though ineligible in the form of group means ( as given in Table VI ) to test the conclusion ( 1 ) of Article 14 , the evidence of the Dehra results may be legitimately ] ) loyed when presented in the form given in Table , where the mean results are for hourly time-ranges .
Thus we find Before After Before - noon .
noon .
After .
Mussooree mean of first eight days . . . .
954 . . . .
947 . . . .
7 remaining seven days 966 . . . .
956 . . . .
10 Dehra mean of complete seven days . . . .
882 . . . .
880 . . . .
2 which are in accord and in keeping with the hypothesis advanced as to dissipation of energy .
On Actinomstrical Observations , made in .
163 17 .
The facts of Table are exhibited in a form suitable for comparison with the similar resuIts of Table II of 1869.* Thus , for the difference of radiation between Mussooree and Dehra , or we have from the mean of all the results in each case '1 For 1869 , from Table II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For 1879 , from Table 74 Difference . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 where it will be remembered that is independent of all variations which affected the two stations at each epoch .
The result shows no change of relative radiation in 1879 as compared with 1869 .
18 .
I next compare the radiation resuIts at each station for the two epochs , and these , no doubt , are subject to all the indicated causes of change , some of which can be recognised , and even estimated .
In the first instance , however , I accept the results as exhibited , and compare them :\mdash ; Means of all the Results .
Mussooree .
Dehra .
In 1869 , Table II . . . . . . . . . . . .
980 . . . . . .
902 In 1879 , Table . . . . . . . . . .
954 . . . . . .
877 Difference on .
26 25 where the very close accordance of the two results suggests that they represent intrinsic or residual causes solely .
The magnitude of is , however , liable to correction , from two causes , because its components are not in the same terms ; both the causes , however , affect the two stations equally .
Cause In 1869 bhe ange was . . . . . . . .
hour .
In , , , , . . . . . . . . . .
hour .
Difference . . . . . . .
our .
* ' ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 19 , p. 229 .
A third cause ( c ) may also be noticed , , that presented by a change in the earth 's radius vector ; reckoning the effect of this inversely as the squares of the radius , there results a percentage of only of the unit of radiation adopted in this paper , i.e. , one-tenth of a millimetre : this result is quite rejectaneous .
It would tend , however , to increase the magnitude of Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey .
Cause In 1869 , mean of sun 's meridional zenith distances ( at Mussooree ) . . . . . . . . . . .
In 1879 , of sun 's meridional zenith distances ( at Mussooree ) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Differenoe . . . . . . . .
hence , to make the results of 1869 strictly co1nparable with those of 1879 , the former ( or ) must be increased for and decreased for ( b ) .
We might estimate these corrections empirically , proceeding on he aflorded in Table VIII of the defect of radiation correspondto hour to of sun 's zenith tance .
It appears , however , sufficient to note that the eifects of ( a ) and ( b ) are of contrary signs , and that the excess of ( b ) may be set down roughly at about five units , whence would be reduced to about twenty , of which the principal portion , if not the whole , may be ascribed to intrinsic or residual variation .
Hence , it may be asserted with .
confidence , on the evidence adduced , that the solar or residual radiation in 1879 was less than in 1869 by so much as 2 per cent. If we imagine this result to hold good for the twelve months , some notion may be received of its consequences by conceiving that , in point of heat-rays at least , the sun was abolished one entire week in 1879 .
[ To this may be added , that since the larger radiation of 1869 cor- responds more nearly than the smaller radiation of 1879 to a period of maximum sun-spots , tLis result confirms , so far as the evidence goes , the hypothesis of greater solar energy at maximum than at minimum epochs .
] 19 .
It will be seen in the column of mean results for the day , Table VII , that considerable diffcrences appear on a comparison inter se ; at the same time that the several ?
in dividual results for the day ( in Table V ) , of which the means composed , exhibit comparative harmony .
This leads to the conclusion that all the resuIts for each day contain one or more constants ; but it is by no means a simple matter to show by experiment* how these constants may be subdivided between intrinsic or residual and instrumental causes ; as to local causes , they may be disrcgarded at least at Mussooree .
That instrumental causes do exist I am strongly inclined to believe , though probably they eliminate one another in the mean from a large number of days ; but supposing them to be real , these causes are in all likelihood connected with the preliminary adjustment of the fluid , by which a sufficient quantity of the latter is " " cast off\ldquo ; into the surplus bulb above , so as to make the head of the column play up and down * Some experiments have been made , but they not sufflciently numerous to justify a conclusion .
1880 .
] On Actinometrical Observations , made in India .
165 within the range of the scale .
In an instrument so essentially differential as the actionometer , any adjustment involving a change of circumstances cannot be too earnestly deprecated .
On the other hand , excessive sensitiveness , the strument can command only a very limited of utility .
20 .
There remain to notice a few experiments made in view of very ' period fluctuations in the solar or residual radiation ; * these are given in Table .
On this occasion the two instruments wer ' set up at Dehra within three or four feet of one another ; both were read by means of the same chronometer placed between them , and the two observers capped and uncapped their tubes the same times .
Thus , the readings were taken at the same instant , and under pre(jisely identical circumstances , the observations continuous from .
to rent t. Taking for each instrument the difference between each result and the mean of all , we obtain the values in columns and .
Now , the magnitudes of these are undoubtedly .
in excess of fallibility in reading , for the eye can certainly read to one-fourth of a scale division ( or less ) , , to millim. , or about F. , so that apart from calibration el'rors , which are not likely to be excessive , and which in the two itlstrumens are almost certain to be dissumilar , the inference is that these large differences are at least in part due to solar or residual causes .
This conolusion is numerically tested in the last columns of the , where I have placed eve , ry pair of or , in which eithel member exceeds ten in magnitude irrespective of size ; twelve such pairs occur , and it may be worthy of notice the two members of every pair without exception are affected by the same .
so that so far as the evidence goes , both instruments recorded a rise , or both recorded a fall .
To present a large argument of the fact , I take the sums , disregarding sigrls , of each column , from which it appears that A recorded 151 units of change , and that recorded no less than 138 units , and in the same directions .
The result , so far as it goes , confirms the colljecture that the solar or residual radiation is remittent , and in very short periods of unknown duration .
[ I cannot too earnestly express my hopes , that actinometrical observations will soon be begun on at least two of the several elevated and eminently eligible sites which India offers .
A series conducted systematically and skilfulLy for even one twelvemonth could not fail to throw much light on a subject which , in its eventualities , concerns every individual on this globe far more than is perhaps commonly contemplated .
As to more immediate questions of periodicity , \amp ; c. , these cannot be more than approached by means of desultory observations , such as those here presented , undertaken under the pressure of * See " " Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 19 , p. , Artide 12 .
-operation in general have enabled him to render valuable aid .
Observations by Captain J. P. Basevi , 23 .
It only remains to offer a few words on the results , exhibited in Table X , of actinometrical observations made by my the late Captain J. P. Basevi , R.E. , of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India .
24 .
When this officer , in course of the pendulum observations , was about to resume his travels in 1871 , it occtlrred to lis that he might utilise some rare opportunities for actinometrical observations which would present themselves at points of considerable height above sea level that he would certainly need to pass over .
With his usual love for scientific research , Basevi readily consented to use the actinometer on suitable occasions , and he was accordingly provided by me with the instrument A of the Royal Society .
The intention to observe at great heights was unhappily frustrated by his lamented death , or there is no doubt he would have secured valuable results at very considerable altitudes , including the Takalung La , or pass , on which he stood at 18,060 feet above sea level .
He , lJowever , took some pre .
liminary observations at small heights , chiefly at Srinagar , the capital of Kashmir .
Not being sufficiently numerous for a separate communi cation , they have remained in my hands since 1871 , when they were taken , awaiting an opportunity , such as now presents itself , for placing them on record .
This is done in Table X. On A ctinometrical Observations , made in India .
1880 .
] On Actinometrical Observations , made in India .
On Actinometrical Observatio , made in India .
On Actinometrical Observations , made in 1880 .
] On Actinometrical Observations , made in India .
On Actinometricab Oboervations , made in India .
On Actinometrical Observations , made in On Actinometrical Observations , made in On Actinometrical , ma in lndia .
On Actinometrical Observatio , made in India .
On Acbinometrical Obserrations , made in lndia .
18 xxxI .
On Actinomet.ical ations , in In Table X.\mdash ; Observations Aclinometer , by Captain J. P. Basevi , R.E. At Sialkot .
Lat. .
Long. .
lIeight , 835 Apri126. . . .
At Jalapur .
Lat. .
Long. feet . . . . .
At Srinagal .
Lat. .
Long. .
Height , feet .

