I. " On a New Class of Bodies Homologous to Hydrocyanic Acid .
" I.-By A. W. HOFMANN , F.R.S. Received August 20 , 1867 .
( See page 144 .
) II .
" On a New Series of Bodies Homologous to Hydrocyanic Acid .
" -II .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received August 31 , 1867 .
( See page 148 .
) III.- " On a New Series of Bodies Homologous to Hydrocyanic Acid."-III .
By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received September 7 , 1867 .
( See page 150 .
) IV.- " Second Supplementary Paper on the Calculation of the Numerical Value of Euler 's Constant .
" By WILLIAM SHANKS , Houghton-le-Spring , Durham .
Communicated by the Rev. Professor PRICE .
Received August 29 , 1867 .
( See page 154 .
) V. " Addition to Memoir on the Resultant of a System of Two Equations .
" By A. CAYLEY .
Received August 6 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) The elimination tables in the memoir on the Resultant of a System of two Equations ( Phil. Trans. 1857 , pp. 703-715 ) , relate to equations of the form ( a , b. .
x , y)-"=O , without numerical coefficients ; but it is , I think , desirable to give the corresponding tables for equations in the form ( a , b. .
x , y)m =O , with numerical coefficients , which is the standard form in quantics .
The transformation can of course be effected without difficulty , and the results are as here given .
It is easy to see d priori that the sum of the numerical coefficients in each table ought to vanish ; these sums do in fact vanish , and we have thus a verification as well of the tables of the present addition as of the tables of the original memoir , by means whereof the present tables were calculated .
VI .
" Contributions to the History of Methylic Aldehyde .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received September 30 , 1867 .
" The aldehyde of the methyl-series is not known ; " all the chemical manuals say so , and for the last twenty years my students have been duly informed thereof .
It will scarcely appear strange that more efforts to become acquainted with that body should not have been made , since the masterly picture which Liebig has delineated of the aldehyde par excellence embraced as it were the history of the whole class , and of course also of the aldehyde in question .
Nevertheless methylic aldehyde deserves our consideration for more than one reason .
As one of the simplest terms of the monocarbon-series , occupying a position intermediate between marshgas and carbonic acid , as a link of transition connecting methylic alcohol and formic acid , as either aldehyde or acetone , according to the point of view from which we look upon it , the compound CH , O illustrates-a greater variety of relations than any one of the higher aldehydes .
But in addition to the interest with which the methyl-compound has thus always been invested , this substance possesses special claims upon our attention at the present moment .
Our actual method of treating organic chemistry for the purposes of instruction almost involves the necessity of starting from the methyl-series .
The simplest of aldehydes thus acquires quite an especial importance , and all those who , like the author of this note , are engaged in teaching , cannot fail to have sadly missed a compound which is the carrier of such varied and interesting considerations .
The desire which I have frequently felt in my lectures of developing the idea of the genus aldehyde , when speaking of the methyl-compounds , has 156 [ Nov. 21 ,

