The following papers were then read:1 .
" Researches in Symbolical Physics .
On the Translation of a Directed Magnitude as Symbolised by a Product .
The Principles of Statics established symbolically .
" By the Rev. M. O'Brien , M.A. , late Fellow of Caius College , Cambridge , and Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King 's College , London .
Communicated by W. A. Miller , M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 10 , 1851 .
In this communication the author ( starting from the well-known theorem , that two sides of a triangle are equivalent to the third , when direction , as well as magnitude , is taken into account ) proposes an elementary step in symbolization which consists in representing the Translation of a Directed Magnitude by a Product .
Any magnitude which is drawn or points in a particular direction , such as a force , a velocity , a displacement , or any of those geometrical or physical quantities which we exhibit on paper by arrows , he calls a directed magnitude .
By the translation of such a magnitude he means the removal of it from one position in space to another without change of direction .
U representing any directed magnitude and u any distance , the translation of U to any parallel position in space , in such wise that every point or element of U is caused to describe the distance uz , is termed the translation of U along u. This translation consists generally of two distinct changes , one the lateral shifting of the line of ' direction of U , and the other the motion of U along its line of direction .
The former is called the transverse effect , the latter the longitudinal effect of the translation of U along u. Both these effects are shown to be products of U and u ; the transverse effect is represented by uU , and the longitudinal by u.U , inserting a dot between the factors in the latter for the sake of distinction .
The author then goes on to apply the principles established to the proof of the Parallelogram of Forces , and the determination of the effect of any set of forces on a rigid body .
In doing this a remarkable symbolization of the point of application , as well as the direction and magnitude of a force , is obtained , namely , that the expression ( 1 +u)U represents a force U acting at a distance u from the origin .
The principles of statics are deduced with remarkable facility from the symbolical representation of the translation of a force along a given distance .

