507 1873 .
] Spectroscopic Quantitative Analysis of Alloys .
crystallize on a slip of glass , and crystals small enough to be transparent were examined by daylight with an \#163 ; -inch objective ; no remarkable difference was observed in the colour of different crystals of the same thickness , and the polariscope did not show them to be pleochroic , the two contrasting colours , violet and red , being due to different thicknesses of crystals .
To aid me in the above experiments , Messrs. Howards and Sons , of Stratford , very generously supplied me with the sulphates of cinchonidine and quinidine in a pure state ; and I beg to offer them my best thanks for the kindness .
The iodine compound of the tetrethyl-ammonium occurs in prismatic crystals resembling the sulphate of iodo-quinidme , but exhibits no property of interest .
II .
" On the Quantitative Analysis of certain Alloys by means of the Spectroscope .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. , and William Chandler Roberts , Chemist of the Mint .
Received November 20 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The authors , after referring to experiments which showed clearly that the spectroscope might be employed to detect minute differences in the composition of certain alloys , proceed to give an account of the researches which they had instituted with a view to ascertain the degree of accuracy of which the method is capable .
The image of an electric spark passing between the unknown alloy and a fixed electrode being thrown by means of a lens on the slit of the spectroscope , the phenomena observed were found to vary with the composition of the alloys ; and further , by arranging them together with known check-pieces on a suitable stand , and bringing them in turn under the fixed electrode , the composition of the unknown alloys was determined by comparison with the known check-pieces .
The shape of the electrode ultimately adopted was that represented in the sketch ; and these pieces were held in their places by suitable metallic clips .
Special attention was then directed to the adjustment of the length of the spark , which was found to materially influence the phenomena .
The method adopted consisted in placing the variable electrode in the field of a fixed microscope having a 3- or 4-inch objective , and adjusting the summit of this electrode to coincide with the spider-lines of the eyepiece .
After a series of experiments on alloys of zinc and cadmium of various compositions , the results of which were shown on a curve , more extended trials were made with the gold-copper alloy employed in coinage , which was peculiarly suited to these researches in consequence of the known method of asiTay having been brought to so high a state of perfection ( the composition being determined with accuracy to the part of the original assay-piece of about 7 grains ) , and from the fact that reliance can be Mr. J. N. Lockyer on Spectrum-Analysis .
[ Nov. placed on its homogeneity .
The paper is accompanied by a series of four curves , which show the results of experiments , and in which the coordinates are given by the ordinary method of assay , and by the spectroscopic readings .
The chief practical advantage which appeared to flow from this inquiry was that , if it were possible to replace the parting assay by the spectro-scopical method , a great saving of time in ascertaining the value of gold bullion would be effected .
III .
" Researches in Spectrum-Analysis in connexion with the Spectrum of the Sun."\#151 ; Part III .
By J. Norman Lockyer .
Received November 20 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The paper commences with an introduction , in which the general line of work since the last paper is indicated .
Roughly speaking , this has been to ascertain the capabilities of the new method in a quantitative direction .
It is stated that while qualitative spectrum-analysis depends upon the positions of the lines , quantitative spectrum-analysis on the other hand depends not on position but on the length , brightness , and thiclcness of the lines .
The necessity of maps carefully executed and showing the individuality of each line is shown ; and it is stated that the execution of these maps required the use of the electric arc to render the vapours of the metals incandescent .
A battery of 30 Grove 's cells of one pint capacity was accordingly employed in the researches about to be described .
The difficulties of eye-observations of the characters of the lines compelled the application of photography , another reason for the use of which existed in the facility it afforded for confronting spectra with each other , and so eliminating coincident lines , since the lines , if due to impurities , would be longest and thickest in the spectrum to which they really belonged .
The portion of the spectrum at present worked upon is that from H to F. Another branch of the research has been the construction of a Table of all the named Fraunhofer lines , showing the lengths and thicknesses of the metallic lines to the absorption of which they were due ; this Table enabled the author to allocate upwards of 50 lines in the solar spectrum , preo sumably overlooked by Angstrom and Thalen .
The Table was intended as a preliminary to a new photographic map of the spectrum from H to F , ' on a larger scale than Angstrom 's , which was intended to clear away all the difficulties touching coincidences\#151 ; and to have below it complete maps of all the solar elements with their long and short lines .
This map is incomplete at present , but is making rapid progress .

