]\gt ; 1881 .
] the Atmosphere which absorbs Radiant .
217 absorbed by each unit thickness of the absorbent substance ( supposed homogeneous ) is proportional to the total heat which falls upon it .
This rule was long ago found by PouiUet to be approximately true of atmospheric absorption .
The thickness of atmosphere to be traversed by the solar rays at various angles of incidence has been taken to be simply proportional to the secant of the sun 's zenith distance .
If the vertical thickness of the absorbent atmosphere be taken at of the earth 's radius , the error of the preceding assumption.is almost insensible for the inclinations in the tables ; and below an elevation equal to of the radius lie 68 per cent. of the dry air , and .
cent. of the water vapour of our atmosphere .
If , then , stands for the total radiation thab would fali upon the actinometer at the limit of the atmosphere , and for the observed radiation at the place of observation , when the sun 's zenith distance is , we may put , where is a coefficient the antilogarithm of which represents the fraction of the total radiation that would be absorbed by a vertical column of the air above the place at the time of the observation .
Assuming the to be constant for each day at each station , I have computed the values of independently from the sets of observations made at the two stations ; and then , taking most probable value of for each to be that derived from the mean of the two , in which the Iogarithm deduced from the observations at the upper station*is given double weight , I have recomputed the coefficients marked and respectively , and finally worked out the symmetrical values of for the hours before and after apparent noon . .
S. A. Hill .
On the Constituent of 4 .
at all elevations where observations have been made in the Himalaya , as it does on the plains .
In any case , the fraction of total atmosphere accumulates above Mussooree during the day hours must be a very small one , and its influence in increasing the absorptive power of the upper atmosphere may be safely neglected .
With water vapour the case is different .
This diminishes so rapidly as we ascend* that , if it be the chief absorbent substance , a small vanation in the quantity of it lying above the higher station will considerably affect the absorbing power there observed .
In the following table the value of for each hour of observation , computed from the mean of the three series , is compared with the mean hourly values of the barometric pressure and tension for at , a neighbouring station of nearly the same altitude , and with the vapour tension and cloud proportion observed at Roorkee , a station 40 miles S. W. from Mussooree and 887 feet above the sea .
General Boileau 's servations at Simla in 1843-5 , from which the figures for that statior have been taken , were made inside a house , and do not strictly repre- sent the variations in the humidity of the external air .
The normal variation of humidity in the upper air may , however , be inferred with some approximation to the truth from the variations of cloud ; for the days of observation were without cloud , like most days in November in North India , there is no reason to suppose that the diurnal movements of the vapour were different in direction on those days from what they are when the humidity is so high that clouds are formed .
Mr. S. A. Hill .
On the Constiment of [ Dec. 22 , dry air and water vapour respective ] , taking where is the vapour tension , and the height of the barometer corrected for vapour tension , we get the following values : \mdash ; Tn computing the vapour bensions observed at the Meteorological Observatory of Roorkee have been combined with those of Dehra , because the latter seem to be somewhat too great at all times of the year comparison with those for other places in the Himalaya at nea1ly the same altitude , while Roorkee is gensrally a little too dry .
In any case , such a variable element as water vapour , it is best to deduce the law of distribution from as many observations as possible .
The difference between the values of and is so small , considering the nature of the vatiorlS , while that between and is so very great , that there can be very little error in agreeing with Dr. Tyndall that the absorptivs power of dry air is sensibly nothing , and that the total absorptive power of the atmosphere is due to the water vapour it contains .
The true absorption ab sea-level , on the supposition that the absorbent ance increases in density to the same awe as between Mussooree and Dehra , appears to have been a good deal less on the two days of observation in 1879 than the mean value found by Pouillet in 1838 , while its value on the 4th November 1869 , dffiered but from Pouillet 's mean resuIt .
Pouillet found the absorption of a vertical column of transparent atmosphere at Paris to vary bstween and 27 of the total incident radiation , the mean being about .
From Mr. Hennessey 's observations the coefficient for Naperian Iogarithms at sea-level appears to have been * Computed from the observations made at the Meteol.ological Observatories of Dehra and Roorkee , and at , 30 miles north of Mussooree and 7160 feet above the sea .
No observations of humidity were made at Mussooree on this day .
This has been pointed out by writer in a paper on the meteorology of the North West Himalaya , published in the ' Indian Memoirs vol. 1881 .
] th eAtmosphere Radiant Heat .
223 209 on the November , 1869 , and 174 and on the 12th and 14th November , 1879 .
If the differences in values of the total absorption be caused cntirely by riations in the quantity of aqueous vapollr in the air , the frction of the total heat which is arrested before the ground will be a direct function of the vapour tension at the place of , and an inverse function of the of diminution of vapour tension with .
We may suppose it , to be slmply proportional to the total quantity of water vapour over the place of observation .
This has been shown by Dr. J. Hann*to be equal to a depth of water , .
, where is the vapoul pressure xpressed in units of of mercury , and is the constant of the vapour formula in metres .
Neglecting the temperature coefficient , which should probably enter into also , and reducing to measure , the quantity of rain that would be formed by the complete condensation of the vapour over any place is given by the formula , inches , where is expressed in inches of mercury , in inches of water , and in feet .
At Mussooree , on the days of obsel vation in 1879 , the several quantities had the values:\mdash ; If now , the value of on the 12th November is found to be 0495 , and on the 14th , 0648 .
The fraction of the total radiation absorbed from day to day does not bear a elation to the quantity of aqueous vapour in the air ; and , consequently , it seems probable that the quality of the sun 's heat is subjecb to considerable variatious from day to day .
Tf this be so , it will be impossible to arrive at comparable ometric results from a few observations about apparent noon each day , unless the observing station be sufficiently elevated to lie above the greater part of vapour atmosphere .
Unfortunately no bygrometric observations were taken at Mussooree in November , 1869 , so that it is impossible to determine precisely , from the actinometric observations made there by Mr. Hennessey , whether the radiation emitted from the sun was more or less susceptible of absorption in 1869 than in 1879 .
At , however , the * ' ' Zeitschrifb fur Meteorologie Baud IX , page 199 .
Mr. S. A. Hill .
On the Constituent of [ Dec. 22 , ( 2 ) ( 8 ) In ( 3 ) we may to be the oonstant of the formula for water vapour , which , for 1869 , may 1oe computed from the observations at Roorkee , Dehra , and Chakrata .
From Mr. Hennessey 's tables and the Meteorological Observatory records , I find the following mean values for the required data : As far as we can judge from seven days ' observations in 1869 and sixteen days in 1879 , it would seem that the mean radiation of the sun , and the mean absorption of the atmosphere lying above Dehra were practically the same in the two years ; while the absorption at Mussooree was slightly greater , and that at sea-level somewhat less in 1879 than in 1869 .
On the mean of all the days the quantity of water vapour in the .
above Dehra was equal to 846 inch of rain in 1869 , and inch in 1879 ; and the corresponding values of , the coefficient of absorption for common logarithms , when the water vapour is equal to an inch of rain , were and 0525 respectively .
The vapour tensions at Dehra are of too local a character to admit of any safe inference these ures ; but , as far as the evidence goes , it points to the conclusion that the radiation emitted by the sun during the days of observation in 1869 was more readily absorbed by water vapour than that emitted in 1879 .
It is to be hoped that the observations which are to be commenced next year at Leh\mdash ; a station 11,500 feet above the sea\mdash ; that is , lying above four-fifths of the absorbent atmosphere\mdash ; will enable us to solve the all-important problem whether the 's heat varies to any appreciable extent or not ; but simultaneous observations at a lower station , such as Mussooree , will be required to settle without doubt the further question , whether there is any sensible variation in the quality of the solar rays , as tested by actinometric methods , that can be compared with the changes in the absorption lines which are observed in the spectra of spots .
Since writing the above , I have seen a report of a lecture*by M. Violle , Professor at the FacuIte des Sciences , renoble , in which the lecturer described some neous observations made by himself and at the summit of Mont Blanc and Grenoble , and at the Grands Mulets and Glacier des Bossons , on the 16th and 17th of August , 1875 .
M. Violle 's values for the heat received in a minute by a square centimetre of surface exposed perpendicularly to the sun'a rays are given in calories in the following table:\mdash ; * ' Revue Scientifique Apri16 , 1878 .

