XXI .
Observations on Albumen , and some other Animal Fluids ; with Remarks on their Analysis by electro-chemical Decompo .
silion .
By Mr. William Brand , F. R. S. Communicated by hLe Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry .
Read June 15 , 1809* SECTION I. Observations on Mucus and on the Composition of liquid Albumenr .
T HE results obtained from the chemical analysis of the intervertebral fluid of the squalus maximus , an account of which is annexed to Mr. HoME'S paper " On the Nature of the in"6 tervertebral Substance in Fish and Quadrupeds , " * led me to undertake a series of experiments on mucus , in order to examine the properties of that secretion in its pure state , and to ascertain how far it might be capable of conversion into modifications of gelatine and albumen .
i. Saliva was the first source of mucus to which I directed my attention .
In order to separate the albumen , which Dr. BosTOcK 's analysis has shown it to contain , t it was agitated for a short time with an equal quantity of pure water ; the solution was then boiled and filtered .
I considered the clear fluid , which had Philosophical Transactions , 18o9 .
t NI C OLSON 's Journal , Vol. XIV .
page 149 .
passed the filter , as a solution of nearly pure mucus ; but found , on applying to it the tests of nitrate of silver , and aceiate of lead , that it still contained a very considerable proportion of saline matter .
The precipitate consisted of muriate and phosphate of silver and lead , in combination with a little animal matter , the odour of which was perceptible on exposing it to heat after it had been washed and dried .
One thousand grains of saliva , afforded by careful evaporation in a water bath , resicdlm : weighing one hundred and eighty grains , from which twenty grains of saline matter , consisting of phosphate of lime and muriate of soda , were obtained by incineration .
2. .
The m , c us from the trachea , and that of the oyster were next examined ; but here the proportion of saline matter was greater than in the former case , althougho no traces of albumen could be .
detected by the usual tests of heat , alcohol , and acids , .
Finding , therefore , that ; the re-agentsemployed to detect mucus , * act principally upon the salts which it contains , and not : merely upon the secretion itself , it became an object of some importance to find out a method of depriving it of its saline ingredients , by such means as should not affect : the mucus .
Decomposition by electricity immediately occurred to me , as the most likely means of attaining the object I had in view .
For this purpose , I procured three glass cups , each capable of holding rather more than a measured half ounce of water ; one of these was filled with a. mixture of equal parts of saliva and pure water ; this was connected with the other two , containing pure 'water , by filaments of moistened cotton .
The water in one of the cups was rendered positive , that in the other negative , by a VOLTAIC battery of one hundred and twrenty four inch double plates , charged with a solution of nitro-muriatic acid , in the proportion of one part of the mixed acid to thirty parts of water.* By continuing this process , I hoped to decompose the saline ingredients of the saliva , to collect the acid matter in the positive , and the alkaline matter in the negative cup , and thus to leave the mucus and albumen in the:centre vessel ( free from the salts which they contain in their natural state ) , and to have separated them by boiling distilled water , which would then have afforded a solution of pure mucus .
When the action of the battery had been continued for about ten minutes , a considerable quantity of a white substance , surrounded , and adhered to , the cotton on the negative side of the circuit , whereas on the positive side no such effect had taken place .
I could not at first account for this appearance , conceiving that if it depended on the coagulation of albumen held in solution in the saliva , it would have taken place at the positive pole , in consequence of the acid there separated .
To ascertain this point , an experiment was made on the albumen of an egg .
When the conductors from the same battery were brought within two inches of each other in this fluid , an immediate and rapid coagulation took place at the negative wire , while It was conceived[ , that this electrical power , though sufficient for the decomposition of the salts , would not materially affect the animal matter .
8Ca 75 only a thin film of albumen collected at the positive wire , where its appearance was readily accounted for , by the separation of a little acid , which re-acting on the albumen would render it solid , ; but the cause of the abundant coagulation at the negative pole .
was not so obvious .
This result I mentioned to Mr. DAVY , who immediately offered an explanation of it , by supposing the fluidity of albumen to depend upon the presence of alkaline matter ; the separation of which , at the negative pole , would cause it to assume a solid form .
I had only to follow up this idea , and shall proceed to state the principal experiments which were undertaken to establish so probable an opinion.^ i. When coagulated albumen , cut into .
small pieces , is boiled im distilled water , it imparts a viscidity to that fluid , showing that something is retained , in solution. .
Two hundred grains of the coagulated albumen of an egg , were repeatedly washed and triturated , in four ounces of distilled water , which was afterwards separated by a filter , and evaporated to about one fourth of its original bulk .
It was then examined by the usual tests , and was found evidently alkaline ; it converted the yellow of turmeric to a pale brown , and restored the blue colour to litmus paper , reddened by vinegar ; but it did not appear to effervesce on the addition af a dilute acid .
On evaporating this alkaline fluid to dryness , by a gentle heat , a viscid substance , soluble in water , was obtained .
This solution was rendered slightly turbid by an acid ; and by the O* n referring afterwards to Dr. THOMSON'S System of Chemistry ( Vol. V.T page 49 .
) , I find that a very similar explanation of the coagulation of albumen has been , iffered by that author , which the following experiments will likewise confirm .
376 application of electricity , from sixty four inch double plates , a copious coagulation took place at the negative pole .
So that water , in which the coagulated white of egg has been boiled , is in fact an extremely dilute alkaline solution of albumen .
This enables us also to explain why albumen becomes coagulated simply by heat .
When the coagulated white of egg is cut into pieces , a small quantity of a brown viscid fluid gradually separates from it , as has been observed by Dr. BOSTOCK in his paper on the primary animal fluids.'* This I find to consist principally of an alkaline solution of albumen .
It reddens turmeric , and coagulates abundantly on the application of negative electricity .
It appears , therefore , that the white of egg , in its fluid state , is a compound of albumen , with alkali and water ; that when heat is applied to it , the affinities existing between these bodies are modified ; that the alkali , before in chemical combination with the albumen , is transferred to the water , and that this : separation causes the coagulation of the albumen : the aqueous alkaline solution which is thus formed , re-acts upon the coagulated albumen , of which it dissolves a small portion , and then appears in .
the form of the brown viscid fluid already noticed .
The coagulation of albumen by alcohol and by acids , may be explained by a reference to the principles already laid down .
i. Five hundred grains of the white of egg were agitated witih two ounces of pure alcohol ; an immediate coagulation resulted , which was rendered more perfect by the application of a very gentle heat .
The liquid was separated from the NXC H LSo N'S Jourtal , Vol. XI-z46 &amp; 377 coagulum by filtration , and evaporated to half its bulk ; When the usual tests were now applied , alkaline matter was abundantly indicated .
In this instancethen , the albumen in passing from the liquid to the solid state , gives its alkali to the alcohol.* 2 .
When acids are applied to albumen , these efiect its co-agulation from the same cause : they render it more rapidly and more perfectly solid , on account of their superior affinity for the alkali .
The following experiments were instituted with a view to ascertain the nature and quantity of the alkaline matter which exists in liquid albumen .
i. Five hundred grains of the liquid white of egg were mixed with two ounces of distilled water , and exposed for half an hour to a temperature of 21 , ? .
The fluid was then separated by a filter , and the coagulated albumen cut into small pieces , and repeatedly washed with boiling distilled water .
The filtrated fluid was evaporated to half an ounce by measure ; it had a saline taste , it was somewhat turbid , and slightly alkaline ; on cooling , it gradually deposited a few flakes of albumen : it was electrified positively in a small glass cup , connected by washed cotton to another similar vessel containing a little distilled water , negatively electrified by one hundred four inch plates , charged with a solution of nitro-muriatic acid of the same strength as that employed in a former experiment , fresh portions of water being occasionally added in order to compensate for the loss by its decomposition . ?
*When albumen is coagulated by alcohol , it does not become so perfectly solid as in most other instances , because the separation effected by the relative affinities is not so complete .
When the electrization had been carried on in this way for one hour , the cups were removed , and their contents examined .
The fluid in the negatively electrified cup acted rapidly on turieric , rendering it deep brown .
On evaporation and subseq-uent exposure to a low red heat , it afforded a residuum weighing 5.5 grains , which had the properties of soda , in a state approaching to purity .
The positive cup contained a little coagulated albumen , and an acid which was principally , if not entirely the muriatic , was held in solution by the water : it gave a very copious precipitate with nitrate of silver , which became speedily black on exposure to light .
When saturated with carbonate of soda , and evaporated : , it afforded a salt in small cubic crystals , from which the fumes of muriatic acid were developed by the action of the sulphuric .
This experimrent shows that , exclusive of soda in an uncorbined state , fluid albumen contains some muriate of soda.@ We learn , from the experiments of Mr. HATCHETT , that minute qtuantities of other saline bodies are likewise present.t In the foregoing experiments , I had generally emrployed from sixty to three hundred four inch double plates of copper and zinc , but in subsequent researches , made with a view of May not a submuriate of soda exist in fluid albumen ?
' After the destructive distillation of coagulated , dry , semi-transparent albumen , there remained " a spongy coal of very difficult incineration ; as towards the end of , ss the process , it appeared vitrified and glazed with a melted saline coat , which was , ; however , easily dissoived by water .
The residuum was again exposed to a long sc continued red heat , and again treated with water , till , at length , a few scarcely ; visible particles remained , which as far as such a small quanti ; y would permit to , ' be ascertained , proved to be phosphate of lime .
The portion dissolved by water 379 ascertaining the action of lower powers , the effects of which I shall afterwards relate , I find that a battery of twenty-four three inch double plates is sufficient to effect a perfect coagulation at the negative pole , even where the albumen is diluted with so large a quantity of water , as not to be detected by the usual tests .
SECTION II .
Observations on the Composition of some animal Fluids containing Albumen .
Finding , from the experiments detailed in the preceding section , that albumen may exist in such states of combination , as not to be detected by the usual tests , but separable by electrical decomposition , I was induced to apply this mode of analysis to the examination of animal fluids in general i. Saliva .
When saliva is boiled in water , a few flakes of coagulated albumen are deposited ; but this is by no means the whole quantity of albumen contained in the secretion , for on applying the test of negative electricity to the filtered fluid obtained after the separation of the albumen by heat , a copious coagulation and separation of alkali , is produced at the negative pole .
A large portion of albumen may therefore exist in a fluid , ce ( which was by much the most considerable ) , consisted principally of carbonate , mixed with a small quantity of phosphate of soda .
c Five hundred grains of dry albumen afforded 74.50 grains of coal , of which 1.25,.were saline matter .
" Vide &lt; " Chemical Experiments on Zoophites , with some Observations on the Con"s ponent Parts of Membrane .
" Phil. 'rans .
18oo .
58o incapable of separation by heat , and in the present instance not to be detected even by acids , these re-agents producing no effect on the filtered solution , just alluded to .
2 , .
Mlcics cf the Oyster .
The solution of mucus obtained by agitating oysters in water , exhibits to the usual tests no traces of albumen ; but when acted upon by electricity from the VOLTAIc battery , a considerable and rapid coagulation takes place at the negatively electrified wire .
3 .
Mucus oJ the Trachea , &amp;c. The other varieties of mucus , as from the trachea , the 0nose &amp;c. agree with the former , in affording abundance of albumeni by electric decomposition , whereas scarcely any traces of that substance can be detected by the tests of acids , heat , or alcohol .
In these experiments , alkaline matter was always evolved at the negative , and acid at the positive wire .
Minute researches , made with a view of ascertaining the nature of the alkaline ald acid matter thus evolved , shewred the former to consist of soda , with traces of lime ; the latter of muriatic acid , with traces of phosphoric acid , in the cases of saliva , and mtucus of te tLe trahea and nose : the rmnucus of the oyster afforded only soda and mutriatic acid .
On examinii ng the proportions of alkali and acid , the former seemed alvways to predominate , althotugh in the original ftlids , no traces of uncombined alkali ( as in the white of egg ) are to be detected .
iThese results leiad to new ideas respecting the composition DCCCCCIX.3 D '38s of mucus : Is it a peculiar combination of muriate of soda and ?
albumen ?
or may it not be a compound of soda and albumen ; in which the alkali is not separable by the usual modes of analysis , but which : yields to the superior decomposing energy of electricity ? ?
4 .
Bile .
An inmmediate coagulation took place in this secretion , at the negative conductor , the albumen being tinged throughout of a green colour , arising from the colouring matter at the same : time separated .
The relative proportion of albumen , separable by electricity from different specimens of ox-bile , was found ' to be liable to considerable variation , so that a detailed analysis of this fluid , cannot be generally depended upon .
I have found the albumen in bile to vary in quantity from 0.5 : to three per cent. , .
and it issomewhat remarkable , that where there is a small : quantity of albumen , there likewise the proportion of the rec sinous matter of bile is relatively small .
The electro-chemical decomposition .
of this fluid , affords^ , besides the results just mentioned , a considerable quantity of soda at the negative pole ; and at the positive pole , a mixture : of muriatic and phosphoric acids .
5 .
Milc .
In this fluid , the separation of albuminous matter at the , negative pole , is equally evident , though not so rapid , as in most other cases .
The conductors from sixty four inch double plates , highly charged , and immersed within four inches of each other in three ounces of cows milk , during one hour , produced the appearance of curds and whey , the principal part gSZ of the curd being collected in the neighbourhood of the nega tive wire , and but little at the positive wire .
When this experiment was so conducted , as to collect the products In separate vessels , the predominating ingredients in the contents of the negative cup , were soda , and traces of lime ; and in the positively electrified vessel , a mixture of muriatic and phosphoric acids .
After such decomposition of milk , the serum still affords sugar of milk .
6 .
The Liquor of the Amnios .
An opportunity having offered of examining this secretion , from the human subject , in its pure and fresh state , I shall mention the general results of its analysis .
The liquor of the amnios is almost perfectly transparent , but on exposure to air becomes gradually turbid , and deposits a white flaky matter .
It renders tincture of violets green , and while perfectly fresh does not affect litmus ; but sulphuretted hydrogen is soon evolved from it , and then it slightly reddens litmus .
When heated , it becomes turbid , and lets fall flakes of coagulated albumen .
Acids render it slightly turbid from the , same cause .
Alkalies produce no change , unless when added in considerable excess : the odour of ammonia is then perceptible .
Electrical analysis afforded albumen and soda at the negative pole , and muriatic acid at the positive pole .
Hence we learn , that the liquor of the amnios has the properties of a dilute solution of liquid albumenr* 8'4 MI^ , V'W .
BRA1MEs'-Obserznations on 1lbumenz &amp;c. 7 .
Pus .
In the pus of a healthy sore , coagulation took place at both : poles ; most abundantly , however , at the negative pole .
A..slight degree of putrefaction having commenced in , the pus , which was examined , I did not pay particular attention to the other products of the experiment .
In concluding this section , it may be proper to remark , that , the decomposition of liquid albumen by VOLTAIC electricity , takes place in different ways , according to the power employed .
With a comparatively high electrical power , the coagulation goes on rapidly at the negative pole , and only very slo.wly at the positive pole ; whereas , with an extremely low .
power , the coagulation is comparatively rapid at the positive surface , an alkaline solution of albumen surrounding the negative pole .
Thus , when the conductors from twenty four .
four inch dou-ble plates , highly charged , were brought withinhalf an inchof each other , in .
a dilute solution of album-ell .
( consisting of one part of albumen to six of water ) , the coagu- , lation was considerably more abundant at the negative than .
at the positive pole ; but when the conductors were removed from each other to a distance of eight inches , or wh , en they- .
, remained at half an inch , being connected with a battery of six [ four inch double plates only , the coagulation was on lyperceptible at the positive pole , in consequence of the acid there collected .
Hence wee may infer , that a rapid abstraction .
of alkalh is -l-ecessary to the perfect coagulation of albumen.i , since , in the cases above alluded to , J the albumen remai ins i..m solution .

