Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance which becomes a violet-coloured Gas by Heat .
By Sir Humphry Davy , Knt. LL. D. F.R.S. Read January 20 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 74 .
] The discovery now announced to the Society was made about two years since by M. Courtois , a manufacturer of saltpetre at Paris .
It is procured from the ashes of sea-weeds : after the extraction of the carbonate of soda , the addition of strong sulphuric acid extricates this substance in the form of a violet vapour , which condenses in crystals , that have the colour and lustre of plumbago .
The colour of its vapour has occasioned the French chemists to give it the name of iode , from 1i2Uqs , violaceous .
Specimens of this substance were given to MM .
Desormes and Clement , who have given a memoir upon .
it to the Imperial Institute , describing its principal properties .
Its specific gravity is said to be about 4 .
It volatilizes at a temperature rather below that of boiling water .
It combines with phosphorus , with sulphur , with metals , metallic oxides , and with alkalies,.forming with ammonia a detonating compound .
It dissolves in alcohol , or ether ; and with hydrogen it forms a compound very similar to muriatic acid gas , but which M. Gay-Lussac , in a memoir read to the Institute , shows to be a peculiar acid , distinct from the muriatic : and he compares the body itself to oxymuriatic acid or chlorine ; for , like that body , it may either be supposed simple , or thought to contain oxygen .
Sir Humphry Davy 's first trial was , whether muriate of silver could be formed from it ; and he found that the precipitate occasioned by it from nitrate of silver differed from the muriate in being yellow when first formed , and red when fused by a moderate heat .
This compound was decomposed by bfsed hydrate of potash , or solution of potash , and gave an oxide of silver , the oxygen of which is ascribed by the author to the presence of water .
This compound of iode and silver was also formed by direct action of the purple vapour on silver leaf , and was found to be red and fusible as in the former experiment .
Potassium heated in the vapour , burns slowly with a pale blue 2i light , forming a white fusible substance soluble in water , and acrid to the taste , from which iode is again separated by sulphuric acid .
lode was found to combine with chlorine into a yellow volatile solid , from which iode was again separated by solution of potash , not in excess .
When iode is heated with oxygen gas , or with oxymuriate of potash , it undergoes no change .
When heated in the presence of iron , zinc , tin , lead , or mercury , out of the contact of air , it forms compounds that are fusible and volatile , and have a yellow , orange , or red colour , excepting the compound formed with zinc , which is white .
The compound of iode and iron , when exposed to an alkaline solution , yields oxide of iron , but it combines with dry ammoniacal gas without decomposition ; whence the author infers that the formation of oxide depends on the presence of water .
When iode is heated in hydrogen , the gas expands considerably , and the compound is found to be highly acid , rapidly absorbed by water , forming a liquid acid without colour , but becoming tawny by dissolving an excess of iode .
lode combines with phosphorus , producing heat without light ; a solid compound is formed that is fusible and volatile ; and a strongly acid gas is extricated , that is readily absorbed by water .
When potassium or mercury are heated in this gas , they extricate hydrogen equal to half the volume of the gas , and are found combined with iode ; .
so that this gas appears to arise from the presence of hydrogen probably contained in the phosphorus .
When the fusible compound with phosphorus is acted upon by water and heated , much gas arises that is acid and spontaneously inflammable , and the remaining liquid is found to contain hydrophosphorous acid .
When iode is thrown into a moderately strong solution of potash , two compounds are formed , as in the formation of oxymuriate of potash .
The first appears in crystals , which form immediately , and fall to the bottom of the solution , and are analogous to hyperoxymuriate of potash , and very similar to it in properties .
But the solution contains a different salt , without excess of oxygen , being simple iodate of potash .
The crystals are sparingly soluble in water , deflagrate when mixed with charcoal , and yield abundance of oxygen when heated .
By passing the purple vapour over red-hot potash , oxygen is also expelled ; and it appears that oxygen quits the triple compound at a red heat .
The affinities of this body for potassium and the metals are inferior to those of chlorine for the same bodies ; and accordingly it is extricated from them when the compounds are exposed to oxymuriatic gas .
WThen the compound of iode with potassium is acted upon by sulphuric acid , a different class of phenomena appear in consequence of the decomposition of the acid , and of the water present .
Sulphureous acid is disengaged , mixed with the acid gas formed by the union of iode with hydrogen ; whilst the oxidated base remains in solution in the state of sulphate of potash .
When the same compound is acted upon by nitric acid , nitrous gas and the purple vapour are extricated .
When this compound is acted upon by liquid muriatic acid , it is completely dissolved .
The excess of muriatic acid may be driven off by heat , and the acid formed by iode and hydrogen found in the liquor .
When oxy-iodate of potash is dissolved in muriatic acid , muriate of potash crystallizes , and the yellow compound of oxymuriatic gas and iode remains in solution .
When liquid ammonia is poured upon iode , the black fulminating powder observed by MM .
Desormes and Clement is produced ; and the salt remaining in solution is found by Sir Humphry Davy to consist of ammonia combined with iodic acid , such as was before formed by the union of iode and hydrogen ; and he hence infers that the fulminating compound consists of iode and azote , since no azote escapes during its formation .
From several experiments made upon the proportion in which this body unites with potassium , or with potash and with sodium , the author infers that the number representing it will be about 165 , that for potassium being 75 ; and consequently that the acid gas formed by its union with hydrogen must be by far the heaviest known gas .
With respect to the electro-chemical properties of iode , the author observes that it is not decomposed by voltaic electricity from points of charcoal exposed to it in the state of purple vapour ; that it is a non-conductor of electricity ; that it appears at the positive pole when salts containing it are decomposed in the voltaic circuit , with the exception of its combination with chlorine , from which it is , on the contrary , found to pass to the negative surface .
From all these facts , the author infers that iode is an undecompounded body , resembling metals in specific gravity , lustre , colour , and high elementary weight ; in chemical agency and electro-chemical habitudes resembling chlorine , fluorine , and oxygen , having a stronger affinity than oxygen for most metals , but extricated from most of them by chlorine ; agreeing with chlorine and fluorine in forming a strong acid with hydrogen ; and with oxygen in forming an acid with tin , and substances apparently alkaline , with potassium or sodium , which neutralize dry boracic acid , and form with it a purple glass , from which iode may be separated by sulphuric acid .
In colnclusion , the author observes , that the acid formed by this body with hydrogen and with tin may be.termed hydriodic and stanniodic acids .
But for the salts which it forms with various bases , he proposes some termination which shall be merely arbitrary , as Argentama , for the compound it forms with silver ; Calcama , for its compound with lime , &amp;c. ; so that the fluate , iodate , and muriate of lime are to be distinguished by the appellations of calcala , calcama , calcana .

