495 On a Diffuse Reflection of the a.-Particles .
one employed in these experiments .
The number of ions produced by a single a-particle under the special conditions of the experiment is easily found from the curve given in fig. 3 .
The determination of the ionisation current in the bulb then gives at once the total number of a-particles .
Care has to be taken to obtain saturation and to avoid ionisation by collision , which occurs when too large a voltage is applied .
I wish to acknowledge the assistance which Mr. E. Marsden has given me in some of these observations .
In conclusion , I desire to express my gratitude to Prof. Rutherford for his valuable suggestions and his kind interest in the experiments .
On a Diffuse Reflection of the By H. Geiger , Ph. D. , John Harling Fellow , and E. Marsden , Hatfield Scholar , University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Kutherford , F.E.S. Keceived May 19 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1909 .
) When / 3-particles fall on a plate , a strong radiation emerges from the same side of the plate as that on which the / 3-particles fall .
This radiation is regarded by many observers as a secondary radiation , but more recent experiments seem to show that it consists mainly of primary ^-particles , which have 'been scattered inside the material to such an extent that they emerge again at the same side of the plate* For a-particles a similar effect has not previously been observed , and is perhaps not to be expected on account of the relatively small scattering which a-particles suffer in penetrating matter.f In the following experiments , however , conclusive evidence was found of the existence of a diffuse reflection of the a-particles .
A. small fraction of the a-particles falling upon a metal plate have their directions changed to such an extent that they emerge again at the side of incidence .
To form an idea of the way in which this effect takes place , the following three points were investigated:\#151 ; ( I ) The relative amount of reflection from different metals .
( II ) The relative amount of reflection from a metal of varying thickness .
( Ill ) The fraction of the incident a-particles which are reflected .
* See Schmidt , ' Jahrbuch der Radioaktivitat und Electronik , ' vol. 5 , p. 471 , 1908 .
t Rutherford , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' vol. 12 , p. 143 , 1906 ; H. Geiger , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 , p. 174 , 1908 .
\#163 ; )r .
H. Geiger and Mr. E. Marsden .
[ May 19 , P 2 J^L M Fig. 1 .
For the observation of the reflected particles the scintillation method was used in all experiments .
With regard to the details of the method we refer to the papers of Regener* and of Rutherford and Geiger , f On account of the fact that the amount of reflection is very small , it was necessary to use a very intense source of a-rays .
A tube was employed similar to that which has been proved to be a suitable source in the scattering experiments of one of us .
J This source consisted of a glass tube AB ( fig. 1 ) , drawn down conically and filled with radium emanation , the end B of the tube being closed airtight by means of a mica window ; The thickness of the mica was equivalent to about 1 cm .
of air , so that the a-particles could easily pass through it .
Since it is of importance that the gas pressure inside this tube should be as low as possible , the emanation was purified according to the methods developed by Prof. Rutherford .
S The tube contained an amount of emanation equivalent to about 20 milligrammes RaBra at a pressure of a few centimetres .
The number of a-particles expelled per second through the window was , therefore , very great , and , on account of the small pressure inside the tube , the different ranges of the a-particles from the three products ( i.e. emanation , RaA , and RaC ) were sharply defined .
The zinc sulphide screen S ( fig. 1 ) was fixed behind the lead plate P , in such a position that no a-particles could strike it directly .
When a reflector was placed in the position RR at about 1 cm .
from the end of the tube , scintillations were at once observed .
At the same time the screen brightened up appreciably on account of the reflected ^-particles .
By means of a low power microscope , the number of scintillations per minute on a definite square millimetre of the screen was counted for reflectors of different materials .
Care was taken that the different reflectors were always placed in exactly the same position .
It is , of course , to be expected that the number of a-particles reflected from the plate would be different in different directions , and would also depend on the angle of incidence .
In our arrangement , however , no appreciable difference was found for different angles .
This is due to the fact that , * ' Verh .
d. D. Phys. Ges .
, ' vol. 10 , p. 78 , 1908 .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 , p. 141 , 1908 .
t Geiger , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 , p. 174 , 1908 .
S ' Phil. Mag. , ' August , p. 300 , 1908 .
1909 .
] On a Diffuse Reflection of the a-Particles .
owing to the necessity of having the tube very near to the reflector , the angle of incidence varied very much .
An investigation of the variation of the effect with the angles of incidence and emergence would necessitate a parallel and very intense source of homogeneous a-rays , which can , however , not easily be realised .
In the following table the number of scintillations observed per minute are given in column 3 ; in column 4 the ratio to the atomic weight is calculated , and it can be seen that this ratio decreases with decreasing atomic weight .
The case of lead appears to be an exception which may be due to slight impurities in the lead .
1 .
Metal .
2 .
Atomic weight , A. 3 .
Number of scintillations per minute , Z. 4 .
A/ Z. Lead 207 62 30 Gold 197 67 34 Platinum 195 63 33 Tin 119 34 28 Silver 108 27 25 Copper 64 14*5 23 Iron 56 10 -2 18 *5 Aluminium 27 3 -4 12 *5 Even in the absence of any reflector about one scintillation per minute-was observed .
It was easy to show that this was due to a reflection from the air through which the a-particles passed .
The numbers on the table are corrected for this effect .
It is interesting to note here that for / 3-particles the number of reflected particles also decreases with the atomic weight of the reflector.* But while for / 3-particles the number reflected from gold is only about twice as great as for aluminium , for a-particles the same ratio amounts to about twenty .
( II ) We have already pointed out that the diffuse reflection of the a-particles is a consequence of their scattering .
According to this point of view , the number of particles reflected must vary with the thickness of the reflecting screen .
Since gold can be obtained in very thin and uniform foils , different numbers of these foils were used as reflectors .
Each foil was equivalent in stopping power to about 0*4 mm. of air .
It was necessary to mount the foils on glass plates , but the number reflected from the glass itself was found to be very small compared even with the number from one gold foil .
The , curve , fig. 2 , gives the result of the measurements .
* McClelland , ' Dublin Trans. , ' vol. 9 , p. 9 , 1906 .
Dr. H. Geiger and Mr. E. Marsden .
[ May 19 The number of scintillations which were due to the reflection from the air is subtracted from each reading .
The first point on the curve represents the number of scintillations observed for a glass plate alone as reflector .
the last point ( marked 30 ) gives the number of scintillations when a thick gold plate was used .
) 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 Number of gold foils .
Fig. 2 .
The curve is similar to those which have been obtained for the reflection of the / 3-particles.* It brings out clearly that the reflection is not a surface but a volume effect .
Compared , however , with the thickness of gold which an a-particle can penetrate , the effect is confined to a relatively thin layer .
In our experiment , about half of the reflected particles were reflected from a layer .equivalent to about 2 mm. of air .
If the high velocity and mass of the a-particle be taken into account , it seems surprising that some of the a-particles , as the experiment shows , can be turned within a layer of 6 x 10~5 cm .
of gold through an angle of 90 ' , and even more .
To produce a similar effect by a magnetic field , the enormous field of 109 absolute units would be required .
( Ill ) In the next experiment , an estimate of the total number of particles reflected was aimed at .
For this purpose the emanation tube used in the previous experiments was unsuitable , firstly , on account of the difficulty of correctly ascertaining the number of a-particles emerging from the tube ; and secondly , on account of the different ranges of the a-particles from the * McClelland , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' vol. 9 , p. 230 , 1905 ; 'Ann .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 18 , p. 974 , 1905 ; ; Schmidt , 'Ann .
d. Phys. , ' vol. 23 , p. 671 , 1907 ; 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' vol. 8 , p. 737 , 1907 .
1909.1 On a Diffuse Reflection of the a-Particles .
three products : emanation , radium A , and radium C. Consequently , as radiating source , radium C , deposited on a plate of small dimensions , was used .
The arrangement , which is sketched in fig. 3 , was such that the a-particles from the plate A fell upon the platinum reflector E , of about 1 square centimetre area , at an average angle of 90 ' .
The reflected particles were counted on different points of the screen S. ^ No appreciable variation of the number was found with different angles of emergence , the reason of which has already been explained above .
The amount of radium C deposited on the plate was determined by its 7-ray activity .
Assuming Fig 3 that 3*4 x 1010 particles are expelled per second from an amount of EaC equivalent to 1 gramme Ea , * the number of a-particles expelled per second from the active plate was determined .
The number falling on the platinujn reflector was then easily calculated from its known distance and area .
To find the whole number of reflected particles , it was assumed that they were distributed uniformly round a half sphere with the middle of the reflector as centre .
Three different determinations showed that of the incident a-particles about 1 in 8000 was reflected , under the described conditions .
A special experiment conducted at low pressure showed that in the case of grazing incidence the number of particles reflected at a very small angle to the reflector is largely in excess of the number calculated from the above ratio .
This tangential scattering is of considerable importance in some experiments ; for instance , if a-particles from a radio-active source are fired along a glass tube of appreciable length the conditions are very favourable for this effect .
The number of scintillations counted on a screen sealed to the other end of the tube is made up not only of the particles striking the screen directly , but also of those which have been reflected from the glass walls of the tube .
The correction for the latter effect may be appreciable , and would be still greater in the case of a metal tube .
In the counting experiments of Eutherford and Geiger this effect did not influence the final result , the arrangement being such that the reflected particles were prevented from entering the opening of the ionisation vessel by the narrow constriction of a stopcock .
It appears probable that the number of reflected particles depends also upon the velocity of the a-particles falling on the reflector .
In our case * Rutherford and Geiger , * Roy .
Soc. Proc.,1 A , vol. 81 , p. 162 , 1908 .
VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; A. 2 L Mr. E. M. Wellisch .
The Passage of [ June 2 , the particles from the radium C had to travel through a little over a centimetre of air before reaching the reflector .
The reflected particles had still an appreciable velocity , since , by interposing an aluminium foil of thickness equivalent in stopping power to | cm .
of air , the number of scintillations counted was not changed .
This might be expected from Experiment ( II ) , which showed that the a-particles are reflected from a relatively thin surface layer of the reflector .
We are indebted to Prof. Rutherford for his kind interest and advice throughout this research .
The Passage of Electricity through Gaseous .
By E. M. Wellisch , M.A. ( Sydney ) , Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received June 2 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1909 .
) Introductory .
According to the current theory with regard to the production of ions in a gas subjected to the action of Rontgen rays , the act of ionisation consists in the expulsion of one or more corpuscles { i.e. negatively charged units of electricity ) from each of a certain number of molecules constituting the gas .
The residual portion of each of these molecules is then said to be positively " charged , although the nature of this charge is not in any way specified .
There are thus present in the gas negatively charged nuclei { i.e. the expelled corpuscles ) and positively charged nuclei ( the residual portions of the ionised molecules ) ; owing to the forces due to electrostatic induction these nuclei attract several of the gas molecules , and the resulting molecular aggregates constitute the gaseous ^ons , both negative and positive .
Suppose , now , that a mixture of two gases , e.g. , sulphur dioxide and oxygen , is subjected to the action of Rontgen rays ; the positive nucleus would be of greater volume and mass in the case of sulphur dioxide than of oxygen , and in consequence it is quite possible that the resulting ions should show similar differences .
Accordingly , if the two groups of positive ions move in the same electric field , a difference in velocities might thus reasonably be expected .
The object originally proposed in the present series of experiments was to

