A letter was read giving an account of " An Explosive Meteorite .
" By Francis Higginson , Esq. , R.N. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received December 23 , 1852 .
The writer states that his attention having been aroused by the highly electrical state of the atmosphere during a severe gale of wind , he proceeded along the beach in the vicinity of Dover , at 2 A.M. on the morning of Friday , the 1.7th of December 1852 .
It had blown very hard during the night , the wind veering from West to VW .
S.W. , in occasional heavy squalls of rain and sleet , accompanied at intervals by faint flashing scintillations , which at first , being considered sheet lightning , were only noticed from their unusual colour , a deep and sombre red .
At about 4h 50m A.M. , however , these flashes constantly emerging from a dense , triangular and very remarkable cloud in the S.E. , which perceptibly increased in size with great rapidity , he was induced to observe it with minute attention .
At 411 55m A.M. , Greenwich mean time , the cloud had assumed the form of a right-angled triangle , its hypothenuse , or longest side , tending east and west .
At this instant he first heard a singular and extraordinary hissing sound in the air , not unlike that of a passing shot , which , although at first not very loud , was yet clearly distinguishable above the howling of the gale .
At 5 A.M. the cloud had nearly doubled its original size , advancing steadily from the S.E. in a NsW .
direction , or from nearly dead to leeward , towards the wind 's eye ; whilst the scintillations spoken of were emitted with increased rapidity .
He also then first perceived in the centre of the cloud , a dull , red , obscure nucleus , or fire-ball , apparently about half the diameter of the moon , having a tail five or six times that length , from which the flashes mentioned were sent forth , of surpassing brilliancy , as the meteor clearly descended with great velocity through the air , accompanied by a detonating , hurtling , hissing sound , impossible to describe , yet resembling that which precedes the shock of an earthquake .
At three minutes past five o'clock A.M. , the meteor having apparently spanned the Channel from S.E. to N.W. , upon approaching the land-evidently throwing off portions of its substance as it passed through the atmosphere the nucleus suddenly exploded with a report similar to a very heavy clap of thunder , giving out an intensely brilliant light , which rendered the minutest objects distinctly visible , although it rained violently and the sky was obscured by dark and threatening clouds .
The dense body of the meteorite seemed to fall in the water about half a mile from the land , as indicated by a great volume of spray , which rose foaming in the distance .

