320 Messrs. C. T. Heycock and F. H. Neville .
In the above tables Rosetti 's determination of the amount of the terrestrial atmospheric absorption has been used .
It may be well , however , to give the results obtained by using other estimates of this quantity .
Taking Langley 's transmission coefficient when the sun is in the zenith as 59 per cent. , compared to Rosetti 's 71 per cent. , the temperature would be multiplied by .^(71/ 59 ) and thus become 5773 x 1*054 , which is 6085 ' absolute .
And , as in the previous memoir , to make the case general , if any later investigation shows the zenith transmission coefficient to be xper cent. , the effective absolute temperature becomes 5773* x y(71/ \#187 ; ) .
It may also be of interest to see what effect is produced if absorption in the atmosphere of the sun itself is taken into account .
First , considering the falling off in radiation from the central to the peripheral parts of the sun 's disc , we may deduce that , if the absorption were everywhere equal to that at the centre , the radiation would be multiplied by 4/ 3 and the temperature would become 5773 ' x ^(4/ 3 ) = 5773x 1*074 = 6201 ' .
Secondly , assuming Wilson and Rambaut's* result for the total loss due to absorption in the solar atmosphere as equal to one-third , our estimate of the temperature would have to be multiplied by y/ , ( 3/ 2)l and we get finally 6201 ' x ^(3/ 2 ) = 6201 ' x 1 .
107 = 6863 ' absolute = 6590 ' C. I wish to express my thanks to Dr. Rambaut for some valuable suggestions during the progress of the work .
" On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys .
" By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. H. Neville , F.R.S. Received December 9 , \#151 ; Read December 12 , 1901 .
In February , 1901 , t we read a short paper on the results of chilling copper-tin alloys , and at the Glasgow meeting of the British Association , 1901 , we gave an account of some of the conclusions that we had arrived at concerning the nature of the alloys rich in copper 4 The present paper extends our conclusions , to all alloys of copper and tin , and the accompanying diagram presents the result in a concise but very complete form .
* " The Absorption oft Heat in the Solar Atmosphere , " * Proceedings Royal Irish Academy , ' 1892 , vol. 2 , No. 2 .
t * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' yoI .
68 , p. 171 .
I ' Report on Alloys , ' Sec. B. On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys .
321 No one dealing with a subject which has been so much studied can give a comprehensive view of the phenomena without largely utilising the results of previous workers .
For example , in the pyrometric work needed to determine the freezing-point curve ACDGH of our diagram we have been helped in some important particulars , such as the singularities at G and H , by the results already obtained by Sir W. Roberts-Austen and Dr. Stansfield.* This is still more the case with regard to the evolutions of heat which take place in the solid alloys as they cool , and which are important indications of internal change .
The eutectic line b ' C ' , and the very valuable curve XD ' E ' F ' , are also due to them .
We have , however , re-examined and verified by experiment almost the whole of these pyrometric data .
pThe microscopic examination of the unchilled alloys is also not new , interesting results having been obtained by Charpy and by Stead \ for example , the existence of the compounds Cu3Sn and CuSn has been strongly suspected , if not quite proved .
But it is our opinion that conclusive results will never be obtained except by the examination of alloys systematically chilled at selected temperatures , and it is in this method , and in the interpretation of results derived from it , that the new part of the work is to be found .
Moreover , even with the help of the chilled alloys , the interpretation would have been very imperfect without the aid of Professor Bakhuis Roozeboom s Theory of Solid Solutions .
AVe are also indebted to that gentleman for many valuable suggestions directly concerning these alloys , and for kind encouragement .
I The method and purpose of chilling the alloys can be described in a few words .
A number of small ingots of the same alloy , each weighing about 5 grammes , were melted and slowly cooled , and at selected temperatures ingots were withdrawn from the furnace and chilled by immersion in cold water .
We thus , to a very large extent , stereotype the structure existing in the alloy at the selected temperature , and we can examine it in the usual way by polishing and etching .
If the alloy was partly liquid when withdrawn from the furnace , it generally became more or less granulated by the process of chilling , and the microscope then showed it to consist of large copper-rich crystals formed before the chill and surrounded by a network of much smaller , but very similar , crystals formed during the chill , the whole being lembedded in tin-rich mother substance .
We can thus determine by : the microscope how near to complete solidification the alloy was at the moment of chilling .
It was in this way that we traced the branches A band ledef of the solidus .
In the above case it is hardly correct to say | that the structure existing before the chill is stereotyped by it , but $ it is sufficiently recorded .
On the other hand , when an alloy has solidified before the moment of chilling , further changes are either * 1 Fourth Report on Alloys , ' February , 1897 .
Messrs. C. T. Heycock and F. H. Neville .
3pej6lJU3n 9Jnj0J9cl UU9 I On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys .
323 wholly arrested , or forced to occur on so minute a scale as to be invisible .
This is well seen in the photographs 4 , 5 , 6 , of the paper published in February , 1901.* Inasmuch as the evidence for our statements consists largely of a photographic record of the structure of the various chilled alloys it cannot be given in detail in the present paper , but some of this evidence has already been published in our two papers referred to above .
We shall content ourselves at this moment with offering such an explanation of the annexed diagram as will make our conclusions intelligible .
* In the diagram the atomic percentage of tin in the alloy , and also the percentage by weight of tin , are stated at the top .
The atomic percentage , being the horizontal ordinate in the diagram , appears as a scale of equal distances , and therefore the percentage by weight is indicated on a gradually increasing scale ; but by intrapolation , any intermediate percentage can easily be found .
The margin of the figure on the left corresponds to pure copper , that on the right to pure tin .
The temperature scale is plotted vertically in degrees Centigrade .
I In such a diagram , if we travel down a vertical line from the top to the bottom , we are considering the same alloy ( so far as total percentage is concerned ) at different temperatures , and , therefore , in different states of aggregation. .
Each closed compartment of the diagram corresponds to a different state of aggregation , and the phases making up the aggregates are indicated for each compartment .
We can , therefore , from the position of the point , determine at once the state of the alloy .
The following phases occur:\#151 ; I ( 1 ) Liquid . !
( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) Mixed crystals of three types , a , / 3 , y. Each of these is a uniform solid solution containing copper and tin , ; but of variable percentage as in the case of a liquid solution .
( 5 ) The body S ' , which composes the whole alloy at the point E ' .
f This phase is certainly in many cases the pure compound Cu3Sn , but , there may be compartments in which the phase which we shall still I call E ' is a solid solution of Cu3Sn and some other body .
( 6 ) The body H , which first appears in certain alloys when they : .
have cooled to a temperature of 400 ' 0 .
There are various reasons , % some of which we shall give at a later period , for believing that pure | H is the compound CuSn , but we have not yet obtained conclusive I proof that it habitually crystallises in the pure state .
B ( 7 ) The solid crystallising on the branch IK , which must be pure tin .
Each of the above six solids can exist in contact with the liquid p at appropriate temperatures and concentrations .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 68 .
Messrs. C. T. Hey cock and F. H. Neville .
( 8 ) There is also the substance D ' , which is never found in contact with the liquid .
The substance D ' is pure at the point D ' , where we believe it to be the compound Cu4Sn .
This phase will be considered somewhat later .
The relations of the first seven phases can best be stated by considering the solidus ( or , as we are inclined to call it , the melting-point curve ) .
The solidus is a broken line consisting of the branches A b , ledef , E2E3 , and H'H " .
The solidus and the liquidus ( or freezing-point curve ) are so related that if we draw a horizontal , that is , an isothermal line , cutting the solidus and liquidus , the points of intersection give the percentage compositions of the solid and liquid that can exist in equilibrium at the given temperature .
To take an example , the isothermal at 900 ' C. cuts the lines Ab and ABLC in points which correspond respectively to a uniform solid containing 3 atomic per cents , of tin , and a liquid containing 11 atomic per cents .
These two would be in equilibrium , for when the liquid was cooled it would begin to deposit the solid , and when the solid was heated it would begin to melt and form the liquid .
Whenever a branch of the solidus is sloping , as Ab , or curved , as ledef , the solid phase is one of a series of mixed crystals .
On the other hand , when a branch of the solidus is vertical , as we have drawn E2E3 and H'H " , one can infer that mixed crystals are not formed .
It is possible that we are wrong in drawing E2E3 and H'H " quite vertical ; the phase E ' may here consist of Cu3Sn having some H in solid solution , and the phase H may also contain some Cu3Sn or tin in solid solution , in which cases the solidus would not be a vertical straight line .
But we have several reasons , some of which will be stated later , for thinking that the mutual solubility of these bodies is not great .
The angle C of the liquidus indicates that the composition of the solid phase changes abruptly at this temperature , for while the branch ABC corresponds to the solidus Ab , the branch CD corresponds to the solidus Ic .
The angle C was a great stumbling-block to us so long as we only examined alloys that had not been chilled , but Roozeboom 's theory explains in the most perfect manner all the phenomena at this angle .
It tells us that just above the temperature C the cooling saturated liquid deposits , and is in equilibrium with , the a mixed crystal whose composition is given by the point b , while just below the temperature C the liquid forms fS mixed crystals , much richer in tin and given in composition by the point Thus , as the saturated liquid cools through the temperature C an isothermal transformation a + liquid = / 3 takes place .
The heat evolved by this reaction is well marked in the cooling curves .
No uniform mixed crystals of percentages between b and l can exist .
The angle D probably indicates On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys .
325 another break in the series of mixed crystals , but we have not been able to detect a corresponding break in the solidus .
However , we propose to call the mixed crystals of the branch cdef y mixed crystals to distinguish them from the f3 crystals of the branch Ic , and at Professor Roozeboom 's suggestion we have drawn a sloping line from c to record the possible gap in the series between the last of the ( 3 crystals and the first of the y. Thus the branch ABLC of the liquidus deposits a mixed crystals , the branch CD deposits / 3 mixed crystals , and the branch DEFG deposits ymixed crystals .
J The branch GH of the liquidus deposits crystalline plates of the substance E ' , which is nearly or quite pure CusSn .
| The branch HI deposits crystals of the substance H , which we think is probably CuSn , although it may have an impurity in solid solution .
I The liquid of the branch IK deposits crystals of pure tin . .
k Below the lines Khlcdef , EaH^ and H K the alloys should be wholly solid , but on -account of imperfect transformations this is not in practice everywhere the case .
S The points B , L , C , D , E , F , G , H , I divide the alloys into groups having special qualities .
We shall now trace the complete cooling of an alloy from each group .
f 1 .
TheAB Alloys , containing less than 5 atomic per cents , of Tin.\#151 ; When these alloys begin to solidify they form , while in the area a mixture of a crystals and liquid .
When the temperature of an alloy has fallen below the line Kb , it consists of .uniform a crystals embedded in a very little tin-rich mother substance , which owes its existence to imperfect adjustment of the equilibrium between solid and liquid during the last stages of solidification .
This small residue of mother substance is absorbed at temperatures below \amp ; C by the crystals , and modifies their margins , but , in spite of some deceptive appearances , these alloys , at all temperatures below Kb , consist substantially of one phase , namely , the uniform solid solution a. | 2 .
The BLAlloys , containing from 5 to 13 cents , of These alloys commence to solidfy by the formation of a crystals , but when the temperature C is reached the reaction a crystals + C liquid = crystals I commences and continues until the C liquid is all exhausted .
Thus , when the temperature begins to fall below C , the alloy is wholly solid land consists of a crystals of the percentage b embedded in ( 3 crystals of !
the l percentage .
These ( 3 crystals ' are uniform and play the part of a mother substance to the a crystals , which now grow at the expense j of the ( 3 , while the solid alloy cools through the range of temperature I by .
This growth in the solid is very remarkable in alloys near the 326 Messrs. C. T. Hey cock and F. H. Neville .
composition l , and accounts for the fantastic angular shapes seen in the a combs of slowly cooled alloys .
Our photograph 1 , in Plate 2 , of the ' Proceedings , ' vol. 68 , shows this angularity well .
In this photograph the a combs are dark .
When the temperature falls below 500 ' C. ( the eutectic line of Roberts-Austen and Stansfield ) the residual ft decomposes into a very minute eutectic of a and the tin-rich body D ' , which we believe is Cu4Sn .
Thus at all temperatures below VO ' this group of alloys form a complex of a + D ' .
3 .
The LC Alloys , containing from about 13 to 15 '5 atomic per cents , of Tin.-\#151 ; These alloys commence their solidification with the formation of a crystals , but at the C temperature these are completely changed into ft of the percentage l , and then the reacts along the lines Ic and CD with the residual liquid .
When the temperature has fallen to the solidus Ic the alloy is a uniform solid solution .
It is a mass of crystals , chemically identical , but forming crystalline grains differently oriented and therefore showing , after etching , differences of brightness on tilting or rotating .
( The Stead effect .
) This uniform solid solution continues to exist until the temperature falls below the line IC ' , which s comparable to a freezing-point curve , inasmuch as on cooling to a point on this line , the uniform ft becomes saturated with a , and below the line the a crystallises out in large copper-rich crystals .
Finally , as before , at 500 ' C. the residual / 3 breaks up into the C ' eutectic .
Below the b'C line these alloys , like the previous group , consist of the complex a + D ' .
We have verified all this repeatedly , chilled samples of the alloy Sn14 showing everything very clearly .
The C ' eutectic has often , of course , been previously observed in unchilled alloys , but , so far as we know , without its real nature being discovered .
4 .
The CD Alloys , containing from 15-5 to 20 atomic per cents , of Tin.\#151 ; These alloys begin to solidify by forming large , comparatively copper-rich combs of ft , and when just solid are a uniform mass of ft or y crystals .
This uniform solid solution persists so long as the temperature is above the line C'XD ' .
These solid solutions are very homogeneous , and we have not been able to find any difference between ft and y crystals .
When the temperature falls below C'XD ' , the phase D ' crystallises out in ribands at the borders of the crystal grains of solid solution , as well as in the form of a fern leaf or rosette scattered through these grains .
The effect is well shown by photograph 6 , Plate 3 , of the ' Proceedings , ' vol. 68 , and the cause of the pattern is discussed in that paper .
The substance between the crystals of D ' is , however , uniform until the temperature X is reached , when the residual solid solution breaks up into the C ' eutectic complex of a and D ' .
The fact that the eutectic point X of the CD alloys is a little lower than C ' is evident in the pyrometric curves of Roberts-Austen and Stansfield , and we have abundantly verified it .
But Professor Roozeboom suggests , On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys .
327 and we have little doubt on the point , that the true eutectic angle for all alloys from B to D is at C ' , and that the apparent depression of X is a retardation due to the difficulty experienced by the a in crystallising from the solid solution without a nucleus of its own kind .
Thus , in the region XD2D ' the alloys are a complex of / 3 and D ' , while below XD2 they form a complex of a and D ' .
As we have said before , we feel no doubt that this D ' is the compound Cu4Sn .
1 The alloy Sn20 , although it undergoes a well-marked exothermic transformation at the D ' temperature , remains substantially uniform .
The fact that it has recrystallised is , however , shown by minute traces of the C ' eutectic , visible between the large crystals of CiXiSn .
It may be that the chemical compound Cu4Sn does not exist above the temperature D ' .
I 5 .
The DE Alloys , containing from 20 25 atomic per cents , of Tin.\#151 ; Between the liquidus and solidus these alloys contain primary combs of y. On the solidus these combs fill the alloy , and just below it they fbrm a uniform solid solution , but it is very difficult in this region to avoid a commencement of the transformation proper to the D'E ' curve .
However , our chilled alloys afford abundant evidence that the normal -state of alloys between de and D'E ' is that of a uniform solid solution .
IWhen the temperature falls to a point on the curve D'E ' , long , straight , very uniform tin-rich bars separate out of the solid solution .
These are very slender and scanty near D , but become massive and abundant : as we approach E ' , and at that point fill the whole alloy .
These bars are really plates of E ' , seen more or less edgeways , and their appearance of | greater or less breadth is partly due to their inclination .
These plates , the first appearance of the E ' phase , must be either pure Cu3Sn or mixed I crystals of Cu3Sn and Cu^n ; we are not at present able to decide this point .
Thus , in the area D'E"E2F'E ' , the alloys are a complex of IE ' + y. But Roberts-Austen and Stansfield have proved that these I DE alloys show , when they fall to the temperature D ' , an evolution of I heat .
This must be due to the conversion of the residual y into D ' , so | that below D'E " the alloys form the complex D ' + E ' .
6 .
The OF Alloys , containing from 25 to about 27-5 atomic per cents , of I Tin.__These go through the same stages of y + liq .
, then pure y , then I y + E ' , but at the temperature G the residual y breaks up into E ' and I the G liquid .
, . .
, It may be noted here that the triangular area Ixf forms an island I of typical uniform solid solution , which could only have been discovered I by the examination of chilled alloys .
| 7 .
The FG Alloys , containing from 27 .
5 to 42 atomic per cents , of lift .
I These alloys , like the preceding , begin forming the complex y + I liquid .
their state , when the temperature G is reached , being y crystals I of the/ percentage and liquid of the G percentage .
The isothermal I transformation y crystals = E ' + G liquid , now begins .
328 Messrs. C. T. Heycock and F. H. Neville .
Cooling curves show that this change is exothermic and abrupt much heat being evolved by the alloys near / , but little by alloys near G. Herein the transformation at G is the reverse of the transformation at C. The change from the rounded y crystals to the plates of E ' with liberation of liquid is perfectly shown by our photographs of alloys chilled near the G temperature .
When an FG alloy has cooled below G the phase E ' crystallises out of a liquid which is becoming richer and richer in tin .
This process goes on between the G temperature of 633 ' and the H temperature of 400 .
Below 400 ' the FG alloys follow the same course as the next group .
8 .
The GH Alloys , containing from 42 to about 87*5 atomic per cents , of Tin.\#151 ; When these alloys begin to crystallise they deposit plates of E ' , and this process goes on until the liquid has the composition H and the temperature is 400 ' .
At this temperature the body E'becomes less stable than the body H , and the reaction E ' + liquid = H , commences .
This reaction ought to complete itself isothermally until either all the E or all the liquid is transformed j but in our experiments we find that the reaction is soon arrested through the plates of E becoming completely coated with H , and thus protected against further action by the liquid .
When this has occurred , the temperature begins to fall again , and H crystallises out of the liquid until the eutectic point I is reached .
The result of this imperfect reaction is that we have four compartments in the space E3SUH , in each of which one of the three phases that exist would be absent if the equilibrium transformations had been completed .
This part of the figure assumes that the formula of the H-body is CuSn .
If this should prove erroneous the line H'T would have to be shifted , but otherwise the diagram would be unchanged .
In the four compartments of the area E3SUH , Professor Roozeboom has suggested the excellent plan of placing a bracket round the symbol of the phase that has no right to be present .
9 .
The HI Alloys , containing from 87-5 to 98*3 cents , of Tin .
\#151 ; In these alloys the solid first forming is H , and the diagram sufficiently explains itself .
10 .
The IK Alloys , with more than 98-3 cents , of Tin.\#151 ; These alloys contain combs of pure tin in a eutectic of H + Sn .
Some Observations and Qualifications .
The Solidus.\#151 ; We have drawn this everywhere as a definite line , but our method of determining it , by the inspection of chilled alloys , is probably not so exact as the method by which the liquidus has been S determined , and therefore further work on the solidus is desirable .
S We think that a determination of the melting point as distinguished f from the freezing point would be a promising plan .
On the Constitution of Copper'-Tin Alloys .
, The Phase I)'.\#151 ; The great similarity in the character of this phase from the moment when it first appears in the C ' entectic of Sn0 , to the moment when it begins to appear as fern leaf in Sn16 , and gradually grows in amount until it fills the alloy at Sn20 , strongly inclines us to think that it is everywhere Cu4Sn , and not a solid solution isomorphous with this compound .
Perhaps the best argument for the view that D ' is pure Cu4Sn can be found in the fact that Boberts-Austen and Stansfield 's line of eutectics ( XD2 in our figure ) extends to Sn20 .
The Phase E'.\#151 ; Between the percentages D ' and E ' there is , as we have said , some uncertainty as to the composition of this phase ; indeed , at one time we thought that there was another singularity between these points .
But on the right of Sn25 E ' must be pure , or nearly pure , Cu3Sn .
The following experiments bear on this question .
We found that E ' and H were but little attacked by hydrochloric acid in the cold , and not at all attacked so long as free tin was present .
We therefore chilled the alloys Sn35 , Sn50 , and Sn65 at 450 ' , a temperature at which they consist ordy of plates of E ' and liquid .
They were then exposed for a week or more to strong hydrochloric acid , the acid being tested and changed every day .
At first large quantities of tin , but not a ( race of copper , dissolved , but gradually less tin came into solution , and when no more tin would dissolve a little copper was found in solution .
At this stage the alloy consisted of separate plates of E ' and a good deal of black mud .
The mud was thoroughly washed away and the plates of E ' analysed .
Two analyses of each alloy were made .
The Sn35 gave 39T\#151 ; 39T per cent. Sn .
The Sn50 gave 38'5\#151 ; -38-8 " " The Snos gave 4P7\#151 ; 42*2 " , , while Cu3Sn requires 38'35 per cent. Sn .
Considering the great difficulty of avoiding the presence of H in the plates of E ' analysed , we think the above conclusive .
By similarly treating the alloy Sn90 , in which there should theoretically be no E ' , we obtained a beautiful and clean sample of H in brilliant spear-like leaflets .
This contained 61 per cent , of tin , while CuSn requires 65 per cent. , so that we have not yet obtained CuSn in a state of purity .
One reason of some weight in support of the formula CuSn is that H must be the body in solution in the liquid alloys of the branch IK of the freezing-point curve ; and as we showed in 1890 , the value of the depression of the freezing point of the tin points to a molecule in solution containing only one atom of copper .
We have to thank Miss D. Marshall , Lecturer of Girton College , and Mr. W. Fearnsides , B.A. , of Sidney College , for much help during the experiments .
VOL. LXIX .

