Queries Concerning Vegetation , especially the Motion of the Juyces of Vegetables , communicated by some Curious persons .
1 .
WHat Vegetables there are , which , having the wrong end of them set downward into the ground , will yet grow ; as it is said Elders and Briars will .
2 .
Whether the Branch of a Plant ( as of a Vine or Bramble ) being laid into the ground whil'st yet growing on the Tree , and there taking root , being cut off from the Tree whil'st so growing , will shoot out forward and backward ?
3 .
In tapping , cutting or boring of any Tree , whether the Juice , that vents at it , comes from above or below .
4 .
What part of the Juice ascends or descends by the Bark ?
Whether what so ascends , ascends by the outward or inward part of it ?
5 .
Whether , if a Zone of about two or three inches be cut off about the bottom of a branch , that branch will dye , or cast its leaves , or bleed out a Juice from the upper or lower part of the bark so cut , or be apt to shoot out leaves or branches or knobs either above or below that baring ?
6 .
What the use of the Pith is ?
Whether the Juice ascend or descend by it ?
And what effects will follow , if the Trunk be bored to the pith , and a pegg driven hard into the hole of the pith both above and below ?
This to be tried in the most pithy Plants ?
7 .
Whether the Points or Ends of the Roots being cut off , the Roots will bleed as copiously , as Branches of the Trunks do , when bored ?
8 .
What side of the Tree affords most sap ?
9 .
Of what Age Trees afford most Sap ?
10 .
What are the best Seasons of the Year for taking the Sap of every kind of Tree in greatest quantity ; and how long that season lasteth ?
11 .
Whether the Sap comes more copiously at one time of the day or night , than another ?
12 .
Whether Trees afford any considerable Juice in the Fall ?
13 .
What effect , copiousness or scarcity of Rain hath upon the saps of Trees ?
14 .
Whether or no the nature of a Tree may be changed by applications of Juyces or Liquors to the Roots or other parts ?
15 .
Whether a Tree , whose Root is covered from Rain , and not watered , if the branches of it be exposed to the Air , will grow ?
16 .
Whether inoculated Roots of a Tree will grow ?
17 .
How short the Arms of the Roots of a Tree may be cut , and the Tree still grow ?
18 .
How deep the several kinds of Trees are to be set in the ground to grow ?
19 .
Whether or no a Seed being planted either way , it will grow equally ?
20 .
Whether the Stem of a Tree being set in the Earth , and the Root turned up into the Air , the Tree will grow ?
&amp;c. These Queries are made public , to the end that such as are curious and inquisitive in this noble Subject of Vegetation , may be the better furnished with matter to exercise their researches and Observations upon , and be also excited to communicate what they either already know , or may yet learn of these matters , for further elucidation of the yet too obscure nature of Vegetation .
And though perhaps there may be divers among these Queries , resolved already by the skilful , yet it seemed not amiss , to propose them here again among the rest , to see what further confirmation or new addition might be given in by others concerning the particulars , they speak about .
And to the same end shall be subjoyned here , some other Inquiries , imparted by a Person of Honour for the obtaining of ampler information , than hitherto hath been had therein .
They are such as follow .
Inquiries concerning the Use and Culture of the KitchinGarden and Winter-greens ?
Eat raw .
Boyle .
Roots Roast .
Bake .
First Shoot Pickle .
Preserve .
Conserve .
Sprouts Candy .
Dry whole .
Stalks Dry to powder , serving for Spice .
Make Wine .
1 .
What Buds .
Make Cyde .
to Make Perry .
Flowers Make Alc and other various Drinks .
Make Vinegar and Verjuyce .
Fruits .
Make thick Juyces like Honey .
Make Concrete Juyces like Sugar .
Make Bread .
Kernels .
Make Cakes , Puddings and Baked Meats .
Make Broaths .
Seeds .
Give pleasant Colours to Meat and Drinks .
What Herbs are fit to make Sallets , and how to be ordered for that purpose .
2 .
The best season to sow every sort of Seed .
3 .
How often every sort of seed ought to be sowed for the constant use of the Kitchin-garden ?
4 .
How the Earth is compounded and ordered for several kinds of Seeds and Plants ?
5 .
What to be sowed on the cold ground ?
6 .
What to be sowed on hot beds ?
7 .
Several ways of making hot beds , and their attendance ?
8 .
How and what to be transplanted either into cold ground , or into new hot beds , and how ordered after ?
9 .
What Observations of the Sun , Moon , and Weather , for sowing , planting and transplanting ?
10 .
How to Water and shade Plants new planted , and Seeds sowed ?
11 .
What thrives best in the Sun ?
12 .
What thrives best in the shade ?
13 .
What , and how such as will not prosper in the Greenhouse , may be covered and preserved abroad ?
14 .
The several names of Worms , Vermin and Insects , that are noxious to the Garden ?
15 .
The Remedies .
16 .
The best form and dimension of the Green-house ; as also of what to build and cover it ?
17 .
What to be housed in Winter ?
18 .
How to order the Pots or Tubs before they are housed ?
19 .
When and in what weather to open and close the Green-house ?
20 .
What observations at the first setting abroad of the Winter-greens in the Spring ?
21 .
How to prune and dung the Winter-greens ?
22 .
What may be increased by the Root ?
23 .
What increased by Layers ?
24 .
What by slips or Cuttings ?
25 .
What grows best of Seeds that shed and sow themselves ?
26 .
What to be grafted and inoculated ?
27 .
The several ways of grafting and inoculating ?
28 .
How to alter the shape , smell , colour and taste of Vegetables by joining different Roots together ?
29 .
How and what may be changed by grafting , joining or inoculating shoots or Buds on different Stocks or Cyons ?
30 .
How to compound several Liquors to water and seed Vegetables , whereby they may be much altered ?
31 .
Of what Roots , Stalks , Barks , Leaves , Flowers , Fruits , Seeds , Downs , may be made either Cups , Boxes , Baskets , Matts , Calicoes , Cloaths ( as Netle-cloath ) and the like ?
All which will be most useful for the life of Man from the Garden .
32 .
How to prune Vines ?
How many Joints to leave ?
And of what age the Vine must be , that is cut away ?
33 .
How to prune Standard-trees ?
34 .
How to prune WallTrees , and with what to be best fastned ?
35 .
The Places , from whence the best of the Vegetables , that are either Winter-greens , or fit for the Kitchin-garden , may be had ; and the marks of their goodness ?
36 .
How to discern good Seeds from bad ?
37 .
The times of gathering , and the ways of preserving them , &amp;c. It is supposed , that the Names of the Vegetables , which make up the Kitchin-garden , and the Winter-greens ; are sufficiently known : yet if there be any , that desire to have a good List of both sorts published , they may be gratified therein upon intimation given to the Publisher , who hath by him such a List , collected by the same Noble Person , who now proposes the Queries for fuller information , than hath been given hitherto .

