XIII .
" Report of Proceedings of the Astronomical Expedition to Teneriffe , in 1857 .
" By Prof. C. PIAZZI SMYTH .
Presented by G. B. AIRY , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
Received June 2 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The Report , presented originally to the Admiralty , at whose expense and whose orders the Expedition was sent out , consists of ten parts , with their contents as follows : Part 1 .
Astronomical and Physical observations .
Part 2 .
Mountain Meteorological Journal .
Part 3 .
Reductions of above .
Part 4 .
Sea-level Meteorological Journal .
Part 5 .
Reductions of above .
Part 6 .
Plans , Sections , and Astronomical illustrations .
Parts 7 , 8 , 9 .
Condensed statement of results and conclusions in Astronomy , Physics , Meteorology , Geology , Botany , and Navigation .
Part 10 .
Photographs illustrating the botany and geology of three different levels in the Island .
The original instructions of Prof. Piazzi Smyth had been purely astronomical , and were to ascertain how much telescopic vision could be improved by eliminating the lower third of the atmosphere .
In furtherance of this view , he erected the Sheepshanks equatorial of the Edinburgh Observatory on Mount Guajara in Teneriffe at a height of 8903 feet , and found the space-penetrating power extended from mag .
10 to mag .
14 , and so great an improvement in definition , that a magnifying power of 240 could be used with more satisfaction on the mountain , than one of 60 in Edinburgh .
After a month 's experience of this station , he ascended to a higher onethe Alta Vista-at a height of 10,702 feet on the eastern slope of the Peak , and there erected the large equatorial of Cooke , lent for the occasion by Mr. Pattinson of Newcastle .
The definition was here admirable , and the telescope equal , if not superior , to all the test objects it was turned upon .
A comparative hypsometric estimate was not possible ; for although the observer had spent an equal number of days to what lie employed on the Peak , in trying to ascertain the capabilities of the instrument at the house of its hospitable owner , on several visits , the cloudy atmosphere of Newcastle had always prevented any good observations being made .
An argument in favour , however , of the increase of height was ascertained through means of radiation instruments , which indicated almost as much improvement between 10,700 and 8900 feet , as between the latter height and the sea-level .
This unexpected degree is attributed by the author to the circumstance of the highest station being almost clear of certain dry , hazy , or dusty strata of atmosphere , which include and overtop the intermediate station , and are , next to the clouds themselves , the greatest obstacle to good telescopic vision of the heavenly bodies .
The results with regard to the clouds were equally satisfactory , for Ioths of the whole were found to be under the level of 5000 feet .
The author expresses the most cordial thanks to Sir Charles Wood , the First Lord of the Admiralty , for his intelligent liberality , to which the Expedition owed its existence ; also to Lord Clarendon , the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , for his letters to the Spanish Government and to the English Customs ; and he acknowledges with pleasure the amount of assistance which he received from many private gentlemen , friends of science , through whose contributions he was enabled to execute , with a limited grant , and in a circumscribed portion of time , a much greater amount of work than he could otherwise have hoped for ; those gentlemen were , Robert-Stephenson , Esq. , M.P. , G. B. Airy , Esq. , H. L. Pattinson , Esq. , Dr. J. Lee , Prof. Stokes , the late Admiral Beechey , Admirals FitzRoy , Manners and Smyth , Prof. Baden Powell , J , Gassiot , Esq. , Capt. Washington , and Messrs. Cooke and Adie .
In the island of Teneriffe , Prof. Piazzi Smvth also received valuable aid in many ways from C. Smith , Esq. , of Orotava , formerly of Trinity College , Cambridge , L. Hamilton , Esq. , of Santa Cruz , Don Francisco Aquilan , Spanish engineer , and more particularly from the acting Vice-Consul of Orotava , Andrew Goodall , Esq. , and his nephew Mr. Carpenter , who were aiding and abetting , and in fact forming an important part of the Expedition during its whole stay in Teneriffe .

