47 1877 .
] On the Development of the Nerves in the Chick .
others of the family steps towards this highly specialized arrangement , the benefit of which to a voracious predatory fish , such as the hake , is obvious* .
The common cod has teeth which admit of a small amount of motion only ; but a comparison of them with those of the hake shows clearly that a further modification in the same direction would lead to an attachment similar to that of the latter fish .
The haddock , which in this respect is a fair representative of the family , has teeth which admit of no motion at all .
III .
" Note on the Early Stages of Development of the Nerves in the Chick .
" By A. Milnes Marshall , B.A. , B.Sc. , of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , F.R.S. , Prelector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received February 13 , 1877 .
In the investigations here described embryos of ages from thirty-six hours to four days were employed .
These were , for the most part , hardened by immersion in picric acid , prepared after Kleinenberg 's method , for three to five hours , and then in alcohol of gradually increasing strength .
It is to the use of picric acid as a hardening agent that the results obtained are believed to be in large measure due .
All the more important results have , however , been confirmed by specimens hardened in chromic acid in the usual manner , though such specimens have almost invariably proved inferior in distinctness to those prepared with picric acid .
Good results have also been obtained from duck-embryos hardened in picric acid .
Owing to the less compact character of the mesoblast of the head and to the absence of proto vertebrae , the development of the cranial nerves is easier to study than that of the spinal , and will therefore be considered first .
Transverse sections through the hind brain of a forty-three hours ' chick show that the cells along the median dorsal line are more spherical in shape and slightly smaller than those composing the rest of the brain ; also that these spherical cells grow upwards , so as to form a conspicuous longitudinal ridge running along the upper surface of the hind brain immediately beneath the external epiblast .
This ridge is traceable along the whole length of the hind brain , but is much more prominent posteriorly than it is in front , where it gradually disappears .
At intervals the ridge becomes more prominent , and grows * Since the accompanying paper was placed in the hands of the Royal Society , the author has found that the vomerine and palatine teeth of the pike present a similar hinged manner of attachment , so that they oppose no obstacle to the swallowing of prey seized by the fish .
48 Mr. A. Milnes Marshall on the [ Mar. 8 , out laterally into paired processes .
These processes are the rudiments of the cranial nerves ; the cells composing them are , like those of the ridge itself , small and spherical , and differ markedly from both the elongated cells of the external epiblast , and the large , loosely arranged , branching and irregularly shaped mesoblast cells .
At forty-three hours the first pair of these processes arises from the anterior part of the hind brain ; it subsequently develops into the fifth nerve , # : Immediately in front of the auditory involution ( which at this period is a wide and very shallow pit ) a large outgrowth arises on either side , from which the facial and auditory nerves are derived .
A large outgrowth from the median ridge commences on either side a short distance behind the auditory pit , and is of considerable longitudinal extent , reaching as far back as the middle of the first protovertebra .
Prom this outgrowth are developed the glossopharyngeal nerve and the several branches of the vagus .
The outgrowth of spherical cells from the summit of the neural canal , forming the longitudinal ridge above alluded to , is not confined to the hind brain , but is continued backwards without any break some distance down the spinal cord .
In the spinal cord , as in the brain , this ridge gives off at intervals paired lateral processes , which extend outwards just beneath the superficial epiblast .
These processes correspond in number to the protovertebrae , and are the rudiments of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves .
Each process has a longitudinal extension equal to about half a protovertebra , opposite the posterior part of which it is situated .
In the case of the first few spinal nerves the processes are somewhat larger , and extend back so as to overlap the anterior parts of the succeeding protovertebrae .
This description , it is believed , differs from any previously published account of the development of the nerves in the chick , but agrees remarkably closely with Balfour 's * account of the development of the nerves , both cranial and spinal , of Elasmobranchs , and is in accordance with Hensen'st observations on the development of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves in the rabbit .
Opposite the centre of each protovertebra the external epiblast grows downwards as a small conical process on either side of the spinal cord and in close contact with it .
These processes were mistaken by Hist for the commencements of the spinal nerves , but are clearly seen to have no connexion whatever with the nerve-rudiments .
His is the only previous observer who assigns an epiblastic , instead of a mesoblastic , origin to the nerves in the chick ; he , however , derives them directly from the * Phil. Trans , vol. 166 , pt .
1 .
+ Zeitschrift f. Anatomic u. Entwickelungsgeschichte , 1876 , Bd .
i. t Die erste Anlage des Wirbelthierleibes .
1877 .
] Development of the Nerves in the Chick .
external epiblast , while , according to the description just given , they really arise from the involuted epiblast of the neural canal .
From their mode of origin the cranial and the anterior spinal nerves will be seen to be all connected together at first by a longitudinal commissure of spherical cells , while the two nerves of each pair , whether cranial or spinal , are also connected together across the top of the neural canal .
The attachment of the nerve , whether cranial or spinal , is at first to the extreme summit of the neural canal .
Shortly after their appearance the attachments shift slightly outwards , and , in the case of the spinal nerve , become much more slender .
This shifting is believed to be apparent rather than real , and to be caused , as first suggested by Balfour , by rapid growth of the cells at the summit of the canal , which has the effect of separating the roots of the two sides from one another and forcing them apart .
Though the proximal part of the nerve-root becomes thus more slender in the spinal nerves , the distal part enlarges considerably , and grows down as an oval mass ( the spinal ganglion ) between the spinal cord and the proto vertebrae .
At this period the most prominent part is situated opposite the interval between two protovertebrae .
During the third day a great change occurs in the point of attachment , which is now considerably lower down , in the position occupied by the root in the adult .
The nerve is now attached , not by its apex , but by a small process growing out from its side , and projects considerably above the point of attachment .
Owing to the surrounding meSoblast this stage is very difficult to investigate ; but the appearances strongly suggest that the original attachment of the nerve to the summit of the cord is lost , and a new one acquired lower down , and that the projection of the nerve above the point of attachment , which becomes inconspicuous very shortly afterwards , is a remnant of the original attachment .
The anterior roots of the spinal nerves arise later than the posterior , and have not been observed earlier than the latter part of the third day .
They appear as small outgrowths from the lower part of the sides of the spinal cord , and from the first occupy the position held by them in the adult .
This position is indicated before the actual appearance of the roots by a slight convergence of the cells at the outer part of the cord .
The anterior roots are very slender , and consist of much elongated cells , contrasting strongly with the spherical or oval cells of the posterior roots .
Early on the fourth day each anterior root consists of a number of such processes placed one behind the other , and lying opposite the anterior half of a protovertebra .
The total length of attachment of an anterior root on the fourth day is equal to about half a protovertebra .
The anterior roots grow outwards , and early in the fourth day join with the posterior roots to constitute the spinal nerves .
VOL. XXVI .
50 On the Development of the Nerves in the Chick .
[ Mar. 8 , In the cranial nerves no anterior roots have been observed ; but as the observations have not been carried beyond the fourth day , and certain of the cranial nerves have not been observed at all , no conclusion as to their non-existence is to be drawn from this fact , which can only be considered a doubtful confirmation of Balfour 's failure to discover anterior cranial roots in Elasmobranchs * .
The facial and auditory nerves have been seen to arise as a single outgrowth just in front of the ear ; this speedily divides into an anterior part , which runs downwards in front of the auditory vesicle and becomes the facial nerve , and a posterior part , which is closely applied to the anterior wall of the auditory vesicle and becomes the auditory nerve .
The fifth nerve arises as a single outgrowth on either side , the position of which is very constant .
The so-called " hind brain " consists at forty-three hours of an apparently variable number of dilatations separated by slight constrictions , and gradually decreasing in size from before backwards .
These dilatations are well known , but appear to possess more constancy than is usually ascribed to them j the most anterior of them is but little smaller than the mid brain .
Erom it the fifth nerve arises in all the specimens examined .
The third , fourth , and sixth nerves have not been observed ; but a slight outgrowth from the summit of the mid brain , noticed in two specimens only , may prove to be the commencement of the third or fourth .
The olfactory nerves arise towards the end of the third day as solid outgrowths from the anterior end of the fore brain , close to the median dorsal line , and exactly correspond in mode of development and in appearance with the other cranial nerves and with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves .
They arise at a time when a section through the anterior part of the fore brain transverse to its longitudinal axis , and passing through the olfactory pits and nerves , is almost perfectly circular in outline , and must therefore be described as arising from the fore brain itself , and not from the cerebral hemispheres , with which they have no connexion at first , and which are not nearly such prominent objects at the end of the third day as they are often described to be .
There is no trace of an " olfactory vesicle " in the early stages .
This mode of development of the olfactory nerve in the chick would seem to be of considerable morphological importance , since , if confirmed , any arguments concerning the composition of the skull , based on the distribution of the cranial nerves , would have in future to take the olfactory nerves into consideration .
* Loc .
tit .
p. 189

