OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Sir William Edmond Logan was born at Montreal on the 20th of April , 1798 .
His education was commenced at Montreal , where he remained until , in 1814 , he was sent to the High School of Edinburgh .
In 1818 he was taken into the house of his uncle , Mr. Hart Logan , a merchant in Loudon ; but , in 1829 , after a short visit to Canada , he accepted the management of a copper-smelting work at Swansea .
His attention was soon attracted to the geology of the district , especially to the Coal-measures of the great South-Wales Coal-field , of the western half of which he constructed , entirely at his own cost , a geological map , on the scale of 1 inch to a mile , with horizontal sections on a scale of 6 inches to a mile , and vertical sections on a scale of 40 feet to an inch .
While engaged in this work he discovered the true relation of the clays charged with Stigmaries underlying each bed of coal , and proved them to be the soil on which the plants , afterwards turned into coal , had grown .
In 1840 he communicated this discovery to the G-eological Society .
This work was so completely and accurately executed , that when Mr. De la Beche began the Government Geological Survey of that area he adopted the whole of it , which Mr. Logan generously handed over to him for the benefit of the Survey ; and the sections became in a measure the models on which all the Coal-measure sections of the Survey were afterwards constructed .
Having given up his connexion with the copper-works , Mr. Logan was appointed by the Colonial Government , in 1843 , to organize and carry on a Geological Survey of Canada , his native country , with which his family had long been connected ; and this work , by his own labours and the help of his assistants , he carried on as Director of the Survey till the year 1869 , when , in consequence of increasing years , he resigned the appointment , and Mr. Selwyn , now one of the Fellows of this Society , was appointed as his successor .
The admirable geological work that he did in Canada , and the beautiful geological maps and sections thereby produced , are well known to the geological world ; for he not only unravelled and laid down on maps all the complicated Devonian , Silurian , and Huronian rocks of a vast region , but he first discovered underneath all these the true stiati-graphical relations of the Laurentian series , which had previously been vaguely termed granites .
He thus showed that they consisted of two gi eat divisions , the Lower Laurentian gneiss and the Upper Laurentian gneiss , which lies quite unconformably on the lower series , both of them containing thick interstratified beds of crystalline limestone .
VOL. XXTV .
a While engaged in this work he discovered , in one of the bands of limestone belonging to the Lower Laurentian series , the oldest known fossil , Eozoon canaclense , the structure of which has since been made the subject of elaborate memoirs by Dr. Dawson , of Montreal , and Dr. Carpenter , who consider it to belong to the Eoraminifera .
The subject was and is of high importance in geology , and at the time of the discovery excited much interest among geologists and biologists .
In 1851 Mr. Logan was elected a Fellow of the Loyal Society : in 1856 the honour of knighthood was conferred on him , in recognition of his great services to geology ; and the award of the Wollaston Medal by the Geological Society , in the same .year , and of a Loyal Medal by the Loyal Society in 1867 , marked the esteem in which his scientific achievements were held .
Among other distinctions he was LL. D. , L.G.S. , and Vice-President of the Natural-History Society of Montreal .
Sir William Logan died on the 22nd of June , 1875 , at Castle Malgwyn , in the house of his sister , Mrs. Gower , in his 77th year ; and it may truly be said of him that no man was ever more esteemed and beloved by a numerous circle of friends .
By the death of Daniel Danbury the Society has lost a very learned and highly cultivated pharmacologist , who had for some years occupied one of the first places among the scientific men of Europe , Besides advancing the science of pharmacy by his numerous writings , he led the way in promoting a scientific education among druggists , in conducting examinations in London which greatly improved their status , in promoting the welfare of the Pharmaceutical Society , and in organizing those pharmaceutical conferences , of which he was twice the President , that meet annually at the time and place of meeting of the British Association .
Mr. Hanbury will be best known to posterity by the work , brought out shortly before his death by Dr. Eluckiger and himself , entitled " Pharmacographia : a History of Drugs , " which may be regarded as a monument of his profound knowledge and great capacity .
His published papers , more than sixty in number , dating from 1850 , are all original investigations into the origin , history , botanical and chemical characters , names , uses , and commercial value of drugs ; and it may be said of them that , in point of accuracy and scientific method , they are perfect .
Hence but few readers have ventured to criticise his statements , so well and widely known was his caution and his mastery of all the subjects on which he wrote .
Nor were his scientific labours confined to the library and laboratory ; he travelled much , not for commercial objects , but in pursuit of pharmaceutical information , and always with one definite object of inquiry , to which all others were subsidiary .
He journeyed in Syria with Dr. Hooker in 1860 , and made many visits to Middle and Southern France ?
and the Mediterranean , during which he formed an extensive acquaintance with men of science and foreign institutions , and with the contents of their museums , libraries , botanic gardens , and drug-stores ; and he contemplated , for the same purpose , a visit to India , which , but for his untimely death , would have been undertaken , for he was a man who never spoke of intentions which he had not predetermined to fulfil .
Mr. Hanbury was born on September 11,1825 , and was the eldest son of Daniel Bell Hanbury , Esq. , of the firm of Allen , Hanburys , and Barry , of Plough Court , Lombard Street , of which firm Daniel was himself a partner till a few years before his death , when he retired to devote himself to the favourite pursuit of his life .
To his other accomplishments he added the skill of a water-colour artist , and his -works are distinguished by accuracy of drawing and truthfulness of colouring .
He was familiar with several European languages , was a facile manipulator , distinguished for the completeness of his collections , the perfection of his pharmaceutical museum , and the amount of information embodied in the notes that accompanied his own specimens and those he so liberally distributed to scientific institutions and individuals .
He was a member of the Society of Friends , a Fellow and Treasurer of the Linnean Society , in which he took an active interest , and a Fellow of the Chemical Society .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1867 , and was a member of its Council at the date of his death , which took place at Clapham , March 24 , 1875 , of typhoid fever , supervening on an attack of inflammation .
Gustav Rose , born on the 18th of March , 1798 , was the youngest of the four sons of Valentin Rose , Assessor of the Ober Collegium Medicum at Berlin , and brother of the illustrious chemist , Heinrich Rose .
He lost his father early .
An excellent mother guided the education of the four sons , whose youth fell in a hard and laborious time .
All four brothers served their country in the war of liberation .
Gustav , only seventeen years old at the time of the battle of Waterloo , was not in any engagement , but made the long march under arms from Berlin to Orleans .
He began life as a mining engineer , but was attacked by an inflammation of the lungs .
The scientific pursuits to which he devoted himself during his recovery , as well as the intercourse with his bi'other Heinrich , induced him to give up his engineering pursuits and to devote himself entirely to science .
He went to Stockholm and worked under Berzelius .
In lbi6 he was appointed Extraordinary Professor of Mineralogy , and in 1839 Ordinary Professor at Berlin , and , after the death of " W eiss , Directoi of the Royal Mineralogical Museum at Berlin .
For the sake of making scientific observations he travelled through a wide expanse of country-Scandinavia , England and Scotland , Italy and Sicily , Irance and Austria .
In the year 1829 he travelled with Von Humboldt and Ehrenberg to the iv Ural , the Altai , and the Caspian Sea and the boundary of China .
This journey laid the foundation of the knowledge of the Mineralogy of the extensive Kussian Empire .
His researches in Germany were devoted to the Silesian mountains .
G. Eose was the first in his own country who determined accurately the angles of crystals with the aid of the reflecting goniometer .
He took an important part in the labours which led Mitscherlich to the discovery of isomorphism .
His labours embrace every department of Mineralogy\#151 ; crystalline forms and their combinations , the physics of crystallography , the chemical composition and the artificial production of minerals , and the art of crystallographic drawing .
The knowledge of the association of minerals in rocks ( petrography ) was founded by him , as he was one of the first who taught how , with the aid of the microscope , to investigate the minerals invisible to the eye in a very thin polished plate of stone .
He applied himself with especial delight to the study of Meteorites , those wonderful bodies which fall on the earth out of the depths of space .
The structure of the iron meteorites , the mineralogical constitution of the stony meteorites revealed themselves to his acute research .
His mind busied itself perpetually with the extraordinary difference between the formation of the stony matter in those cosmic masses and in the solid crust of the earth .
It is truly remarkable that his most beautiful mineralogical discoveries wTere not made in operating upon rare minerals , but upon such as exist in all collections , and of which many have been exposed to observation before .
To these belong the distinctions of the forms of quartz and its various twins ; the crystallization of pyrites , sought after by many in vain .
The secret of making such discoveries consisted in this , that he never sought after the form alone , but always contemplated the totality of the physical appearances .
During the last year of his life his inquiring thoughts were especially directed to the diamond .
Eew mineralogists are capable of conjecturing that the diamond in its form yet exhibits perplexities .
So occupied was he with this problem , that he dictated to one of his sons the results of this last intellectual labour only four-and-twenty hours before his end .
He saw his best friends and truest companions of his labours , Mitscherlich , Magnus , Haidinger , and above all his brother Heinrich , called away from their work .
Their departure and his increasing solitude filled him with sorrow .
Yet he derived consolation from the reflection how much science had been promoted by his departed friends .
In the year 1870 he celebrated his Doctors Jubilee , having in this year completed the half century of his teaching career .
He never sought distinction , though many honours fell to his share .
When created a Knight of the Order " Pour la Merit , " the honour appeared to him to be almost too great .
Imperishable is the remembrance which Gustav Eose has left behind him in Science ; though not imperishable yet more touching is the remembrance which he has left behind him in the hearts of all with whom V he was acquainted .
In his science and in the many sided relations of his life he had no enemy , no opponent .
To live in peace and friendship , which is often difficult for the best , was to him inevitable .
As his own efforts were always directed to truth and goodness , he assumed the same to be the case with others .
In their efforts he saw nothing but good .
" When the deeds or words of others failed to meet his approbation , he could not suppose there was a dishonourable motive for their conduct .
This explains the fact that those who lived at variance with one another united in respecting him .
On the 11th of July , 1873 , he gave a lecture .
Notwithstanding great weakness he wrote a long scientific letter in the evening , and concluded with the words , " Best will do us good : we will go again to our old quarters at Eriedrichshafen ; would we were there !
' Scarcely had he ended the letter when he was attacked by a fit of shivering , an indication of an inflammation of the lungs , which in less than four days , on the 15th of July , closed his life , in the 76th year of his age .
Gustav Bose took an active part in the foundation of the " Deutsche Geologische " Society , of which he was President from the year 1863 until his death ; and almost every volume of the ' Zeitschrift ' of that Society contains papers by him .
Besides his works , ' Mineralogisek-geognostische Beise nach dem Ural dem Altai und clem Ivaspischen Meere ' ( of which the first volume appeared in 1837 and the second in 1842 , the result of his observations in those regions ) , his ' Element der Krystallographie , ' and his 'Brystallochemische Mineralsystem , ' he was the author of numerous papers published in Gilbert 's and in Poggendorff 's ' Annalen , ' in the ' Abhandlungen ' of the Berliner Akademie der Wissen-schaften , and other periodicals .
Christopher Hansteen was born at Christiania on the 26th September , 1784 .
He attended the Cathedral school of that city ; and in the year 1802 he entered the University of Copenhagen , where he studied first law and afterwards mathematics .
In 1806 he became a teacher of Mathematics in the Gymnasium of Fredericksburg in Zealand .
It was in the year 1807 that he began to take an interest in terrestrial magnetism ; and in 1812 he obtained the prize from the Boyal Danish Academy of Sciences for his answer to the following question:\#151 ; " Is it necessary , in order to explain facts in the earth 's magnetism , to suppose more than one magnetic axis in the earth ?
" In the year 1814 he was appointed to the chair of Astronomy and Applied Mathematics in the University of Christiania , founded by Erederick IV .
of Norway .
In 1819 he published , at the expense of the King , his greatest work , ' Untersuchungen fiber den Magnetismus der Erde , in a quarto volume of 650 pages .
It was illustrated with copper plates and an Atlas of magnetic charts , and also contained an abstract of the history of the vi subject .
This work was only preparatory to his great object .
He wished to make a mathematical analysis of all the observations in the light of Euler 's theory of magnets ; and he strove to test Halley 's speculations as to the existence of four magnetic poles in the earth , and to give a satisfactory answer to the critical problem presented by the Danish Academy of Sciences ; .
His Declination chart for 1787 was more accurate and full than similar charts already published by Halley , by Mountain and Dodson , and by 'Churchman .
He decided that there were two magnetic poles in the northern and two in the southern hemisphere ; and he inferred from the secular changes in these lines that the northern magnetic poles were moving obliquely towards the east , and those in the south towards the west .
He calculated approximately the period of complete revolution for each pole , and called attention to the following coincidence , namely , that the shortest time in which all the poles will return to the same relative position agreed closely with the period of revolution in the precession of the equinoxes .
By the liberality of the Norwegian Government he was enabled to go to Siberia , in company with Due and Erman , to search for the ideal point of the Asiatic Pole of Magnetism .
They started from Berlin on the 25th of April , 1828 , and reached Kiachta and Irkoutsk .
The Eussian Government offered every facility for the success of the expedition , and the results were important .
Ten magnetic observatories were established in the Eussian Empire by the recommendation of Humboldt , and great results were obtained by Gauss , Sabine , Lamont , and others from the materials collected by Hansteen and Erman .
Hansteen ascertained beyond dispute the existence of a magnetic pole in Siberia supplementary to that in British America , and also the biaxial character of the earth 's magnetism .
Hansteen 's elaborate treatise on Terrestrial Magnetism contains a discussion on the Isoclinic and Isodynamic lines , and on those of Declination .
His Magnetic Atlas contained maps of dip and intensity .
These observations have of course up to the present time been added to in so far as the increased number of observations in the Arctic and \#166 ; Antarctic regions , in the United States of America , and at the numerous magnetic observatories have supplied more accurate and abundant data .
The work has been described as a monument of industry , learning , and mathematical skill .
Soon after his Siberian expedition Hansteen prevailed upon the Norwegian Government to erect in Christiania an observatory fitted up for Magnetic Observations , and he was appointed Director of this Institution .
Hansteen reaffirmed the Decennial period as the result of 25 years of observation in Christiania , changing it , however , from 10 years to 11-33 ; and the Coincidence between this period and that of the solar spots has vii m mm nomy .
\#166 ; I TS a memb\#163 ; erD'f the American Academy of Arts and Sciences^ of the Academies of Pans , Berlin , and St. Petersburg , and a foreign mem ' ber of the Royal Society* His death took place on the 11th of April , 1873 .
Charles Eugene Delaunay was bom atLusigny , in the Department of the Aube , in the year 1816 .
He studied at the Ecole Polytechnique , of which school he became a distinguished pupil .
In the year 1836 he joined the Ecole des Mines , While there he wrote several reports on the Coal-seams of the Yalley of St. Etienne and Creusot , as well as on the principal iron and steel works of Prance , which were remarkable for clearness of thought and skill in theoretical speculations ; and he was still a pupil in the School when a proposal was made by his former masters at the Ecole Polytechnique that he should be appointed as Teacher of Greodesy in their school .
There were difficulties in the way of this ; but the anxiety to obtain the benefit of the talents of young Delaunay was so great that the Council of the school , at the head of which was M. Cordier , gave their sanction to the arrangement , and Delaunay was appointed .
He subsequently became a Professor in the Ecole Polytechnique , and later on also in the Ecole des Mines .
Prom the year 1845 to 1850 , Delaunay held a Professorship in that section of the Eco e des Mines which was specially devoted to the instruction of Engineers , whether attached to the Corps des Mines or those connecte um mining industry of Prance .
He had classes for descriptive Geome ry Engineer in Chief in 1858 , In 1867 he was viii the Precession of the Equinoxes , Theory of the Motion of the Moon , elementary treatises on Astronomy and Mechanics , and many miscellaneous papers in the * Comptes Rendus , ' ' Connaissance des Temps , ' and in the Journal of the Ecole Polytechnique .
He was also the author of some excellent elementary books on astronomy and mechanics .
Soon , however , his attention became engaged by astronomical questions , and before long he was entirely absorbed by them .
lie published an important treatise on the Theory of the Tides , and about the same time the question of the Lunar Theory began to occupy him .
His greatest work , ' La Theory de la Lune ' ( the first part of which Occupied him fourteen years ) , was published in 1860 as an entire volume of ' Memoires ' of the Academy des Sciences .
It made his name famous among astronomers .
In 1862 the Royal Astronomical Society of London elected him one of their Associates ; and in February 1870 Professor J. C. Adams presented to him , in the name of the President , the Gold Medal of the Society , in acknowledgment of the high opinion of his work entertained by English astronomers .
During the same time he published a number of papers relating to the theory , one in particular on the secular acceleration of the mean motion of the moon , which was then a subject of much controversy .
The second volume of his ' Theory ' appeared in 1867 .
The preparation of the Lunar Tables necessary for the completion of the work was undertaken by the Bureau des Longitudes , under the direction of Delaunay .
A government grant of funds was obtained for the purpose , and the tables were in course of preparation at the time of his death .
It was uncertain whether the calculations were sufficiently advanced to be carried on without him ; but M. Puiseau , Member of the Bureau des Longitudes , says , " Quoique l'auteur no soit plus la pour y mettre la derniere main , il no sera sans doute pas impossible de terminer ce monument scientifique .
Esperons pour la gloire de l'astronomie frangaise que ce service sera rendu a la science , que ce supreme hommage no manquera pas a notre illustre confrere .
" In the year 1854 , when the administration of the observatory of Paris was separated from that of the Bureau des Longitudes , several of the members of its staff retired to a house in the Rue Notre Dame des Champs , where they established a small observatory .
Delaunay occupied an apartment in the same house , and there he formed a life-long friendship with Mathieu and Laugier .
It was there that he worked out most of his researches , seldom going out except to give his lessons at the Ecole des Mines or the Sorbonne .
He often began work as early as five in the morning , and invariably continued until late in the evening .
From this tranquil life he was called away in 1870 by the Emperor Napoleon the Third to succeed M. Leverrier as Director of the Paris Observatory .
Many alterations and improvements had taken place in the Observatory since the death of Arago , and Delaunay soon became ix convinced of their importance .
But he had not long been installed in his new office when the terrible war between France and Germany broke out ; and his whole time and attention were soon absorbed in the preservation of the observatory from the effects of a bombardment .
All the delicate instruments were dismantled and stowed away and the observations suspended .
On the restoration of peace the observatory was soon restored to order and the observations were resumed .
Feeling the great want of public and private observatories in France , Delaunay , in conjunction with Leverrier , made an application to the government for the establishment of a certain number of geodetical and astronomical stations in different places .
The observatories were to be established according to plans arranged by Delaunay and the Bureau des Longitudes .
To Delaunay is owing the independence of the Observatory of Marseilles , which had hitherto been in connexion with the Paris Observatory , also the foundation of one at Toulouse and the plan for one at Besangon .
His energies were devoted to making the Observatory of Paris the great centre of astronomy in France .
Shortly before his death he remarked , " We are going to do many things .
The Observatory intends to devote all its energies to the reobservation of Lalande 's Catalogue , to continue the ecliptic star-charts commenced by Chacornac , to observations of double stars ; and , finally , we are making preparations for new determinations of the longitude of Breast , Greenwich , and Neufchatel .
" He continued his observations of the minor planets during the second half of the lunation with great success , excepting during the siege .
Delaunay lost his wife a few years after his marriage .
He has left one son , who is guardian of the Forests of Yitry le Francais .
His aged mother , to whom he had been a most devoted son , survived him .
It remains only to relate the painful circumstance of his death .
On Tuesday , July 30th , 1872 , he left Paris in company with his cousin M. Millot , Controller of the Post , for a few days holiday .
On the following Sunday he wrote from Bayeux that he intended spending a few days at Cherbourg , and should return to Paris on the following Thursday .
On the Tuesday following a telegram was received in Paris announcing that he and his cousin and two boatmen had been drowned by the upsetting of a pleasure-boat in the roadstead of Cherbourg .
It is a singular fact that both his father and brother perished by drowning .
Delaunay was a member of the Academy des Sciences of the Institute of France , and towards the close of his life had occupied the Chaii .
He was a Doctor of Science , a member of several learned societies , and was elected a foreign member of the Boyal Society in 1869 .
VOL. xxiv .
h Thomas Hewitt Key was born in London on the 20th of March , 1799 .
He was the youngest son of Hr .
Key , a London Physician , and half-brother of Charles Aston Key , the eminent surgeon .
T. H. Key was sent to the Kev .
Samuel Dewe 's school at Buntingford in Hertfordshire , where he remained nearly ten years .
Prom this school he went to St. John 's College , Cambridge ; but he removed to Trinity College , Cambridge , during his undergraduateship , and obtained a scholarship in his new college .
He took his degree in 1821 , and was nineteenth wrangler .
Mr. Key 's inclination was to go to the bar ; but in compliance with the wish of his father , to whom he was a most dutiful and affectionate son , he began to prepare for the medical profession , and he studied nearly two years at Guy 's Hospital ; but his purpose was changed by the acceptance of the Professorship of Mathematics in the University of Virginia , U. 8 .
, under the following circumstances .
In the summer of 1824anagentfromthe State of Virginia came to Englandtochoosef our professors for the new University of Virginia , which had been established by the Legislature at Charlottesville in a central position in the State , and near Monticello , the residence of Mr. Thomas Jefferson .
The course of instruction was planned by Mr. Jefferson , himself a Virginian , and once President of the United States .
He was the Hector of the new University , and even the architect , though he was then past eighty years of age .
He also made out a catalogue of valuable books for the university library , and the agent was empowered to purchase the books in England .
Mr. Jefferson , as Hector and head of the Board of Visitors , superintended the affairs of the University till his death in 1826 .
In the simple inscription which he left for his tomb on the hill named Monticello , he describes himself as " the author of the Declaration of Independence , the act for Heligious Toleration , and the Hector of the University of Virginia .
" The Presidency of the United States is not mentioned .
Mr. Jefferson thought that it was a greater honour to have been the active founder of a University in his native State ; and he expected that it would be a great benefit to the country .
Pifty years of experience have confirmed his expectations , and the University of Virginia is now a valuable school .
Mr. Key before leaving England married Miss Sarah Troward , daughter of Hichard Ironmonger Troward , who was solicitor for the prosecution in Warren Hastings 's trial .
This happy marriage continued to his death , and he had the rare felicity of celebrating his golden wedding on the 28th of September , 1874 .
In Virginia Mr. Key was a successful teacher of mathematics , a science for which he had a great natural capacity , and he was much beloved by his pupils .
In the summer of 1825 , during the absence of the Professor of Ancient Languages , Mr. Key , in addition to his own classes , taught the Greek and Latin classes in the University .
He left Charlottesville in 1827 much regretted , and returned to London .
During his residence XI in Virginia lie began his etymological study of the Latin language , which he prosecuted to the end of his life .
In 1828 he was appointed Professor of Latin in the University of London in Glower Street .
The University of London was opened on the 1st of October , 1828 .
An attempt was made to establish in Glower Street a school in connexion with the new University for supplying it with well-prepared pupils .
The design was good , but the school did not promise much success .
In 1833 this school , or a school in place of it , was established in the University buildings in Gower Street , and Mr. Key , the Professor of Latin , and Mr. Malden , the new Professor of Greek , were appointed joint head masters .
In 1842 Mr. Key gave up the Professorship of Latin and took the Professorship of Comparative Grammar with the undivided headship of the school , which he held to the day of his death .
Professor Malden still continued to teach the sixth Greek class in the school till recently .
In 1836 the present University of London was established , and the University of London in Gower Street received a Koyal Charter , and took the name of University College , which it now has .
This Charter was annulled by Act of Parliament of the 24th of June , 1869 , whereby the College was reincorporated with additional powers , and divested of its proprietary character .
The school of University College has been a good place of education under the two original head masters and the subsequent head mastership of Mr. Key only .
It has given a more enlarged and useful education for boys than could be got at most schools ; and one proof of success is the number of able men who have been brought up in it and are now well known in the world .
Por some years the number of boys was not large , but there was a steady increase .
In 1868 the number was about four hundred , and in 1875 , the last year of Mr. Key 's life , it was above six hundred .
Mr. Key was employed from 1828 till his death in November 1875 as a teacher and head master in University College School , and also , first , as Professor of Latin and afterwards of Comparative Grammar in University College .
He was the first Professor of Comparative Grammar in the College , and it will be very difficult to supply his place .
It is stated in the Keport of the Council , February 23rd , 1876 :\#151 ; " Since 1842 , when Mr. Key was appointed to the Professorship of Comparative Grammar , the science of Philology has been more generally studied than had previously been the case ; and there can be no doubt that the increased interest with which the subject is now regarded is to some extent attributable to the zeal with which he devoted himself to his professorial duties , and to the extensive erudition which he displayed in lecturing on the subject in which he took an enthusiastic interest , which gave to his lectures a charm rendering them most attractive , and communicating his enthusiasm to many of the students .
" xii A few words must be added on other matters , in which Mr. Key 's active mind and great abilities enabled him to do much service to his country in other ways .
He was like the Roman in one respect of whom C. Ccesar said , " Whatever this man wills , he wills it with all his might .
" He was a zealous and efficient supporter of the Reform Bill for the improvement of the constitution of the House of Commons , of the Bill for the repeal of the Corn Laws , and of the Bill for the repeal of the duty on paper ; and he also took an active part in the elections for Marylebone when Admiral Charles Napier was elected .
Mr. Key was one of the founders of the London Library in St. James 's Square and a member of the Committee , and also a member of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge .
He was until a few years before his death a regular attendant at the meetings of the Philological Society of London , and for some years President of the Society .
His contributions to the Proceedings of this Society were numerous : there is a list of them in the preface to his Philological Essays ( 1868 ) .
He was one of those who assisted in originating the formation of the body of Volunteers ; but he lived long enough to think that the country was trusting too much to the Volunteers , and that it required other and more complete defence .
Mr. Key was an acute observer of facts , and he possessed in a remarkable degree the power of judging of evidence and of character , as he showed in the case of Lord Cochrane , afterwards Earl of Dundonald , one of the greatest seamen that this country has produced .
Lord Cochrane , with his uncle Cochrane Johnston , was tried in 1814 for conspiracy and fraud , unjustly convicted , and disgraced .
In 1847 , when Lord Dundonald was not yet fully restored , Mr. Key was led to read the report of the trial , and from a careful examination of the evidence , he was convinced of Lord Dundonald 's innocence .
At this time he became acquainted with Lord Dundonald , and he has left many papers which he received from him .
Mr. Key had the satisfaction at last of seeing the veteran seaman restored to all his honours and his great name cleared from an unmerited stain .
In 1856 Mr. Key wrote an excellent pamphlet on the division of profits in the London Life Association , in which he was one of the insured .
He showed here his capacity to deal with problems of life insurance , and powers which would certainly have raised him to eminence as a lawyer .
The changes which he recommended were not made at the time , but they have since been substantially adopted , to the great benefit of the members of the Association .
Mr. Key 's literary labours will be briefly noticed .
He made a good map of ancient France ( Gallia ) for the Useful Knowledge Society 's Atlas .
This map was accompanied by a map of France in Provinces , as they existed before the Revolution of 1789 .
He was very fond of geography , and taught it well in the school of University College .
He wrote several articles in the Journal of Education of the Useful Knowledge Society , among which was a review of an English translation of Zumpt 's Latin Grammar , and ol xiii the school editions of Terence , with remarks on the metres of Terence .
In the review of Zumpt 's Grammar he made the first proposal , as far as he knew and as far as the writer knows , to apply the crude-form system of the Sanskrit Grammarians to the classical languages ; and he says ( Appendix I. Key 's Latin Grammar , edition of 1858 ) , " The system had been previously expounded in the classical lecture-rooms of the University of London " ( now University College)* .
In 1829 Mr. Key had attended the Sanskrit class of the learned Dr. Posen in the then University of London ; but he had never time to prosecute the study of Sanskrit beyond the elementary part .
Mr. Key contributed to the Penny Cyclopaedia of the Useful Knowledge Society some valuable articles , chiefly on Language .
Among them were articles on the letters of the Alphabet , the article on the Alphabet , and one on the metres of Terence .
These papers were for the most part collected in a little volume ( 1844 ) , and there was prefixed to it a Prefatory Letter to his colleague , the Professer of Latin in University College .
This Prefatory Letter gave rise to a controversy .
Those who are curious about the matter will find further information on it in the Preface to Mr. Key 's Philological Essays .
In 1846 Mr. Key published a Latin Grammar on the system of Crude Forms , and in 1862 what he says he may call a third edition of the same , " corrected and somewhat enlarged .
" In 1846 few Latin scholars knew what crude forms were .
The book wras used in University College School , but the teaching of Latin and Greek on this system had been a long time practised there .
The book sold slowly , for no persons are slower in making improvements in education than the common teachers of Latin .
In Appendix I. to the Grammar Mr. Key has explained the Crudelorm , upon which system , as he says , every Sanskrit Grammar is constructed ; and he has attempted to show " the practical advantages which it offers even for elementary instruction .
" It will perhaps be a long time before this system comes into general use in teaching the Greek and Latin languages ; but there are now many teachers and scholars who know what it is .
The study of Latin is a necessity in England , and can never be neglected in a good education .
We may hope that it will be taught better than it has been ; for the aid which Latin , when it is taught well , gives tow aids the etymology of our own highly Latinized tongue , is , as Mr. Key says , " a secondary but still an important consideration ; and here again the crude forms have a marked advantage over the nominatives .
Mi- Key s Latin Grammar is an excellent work , superior in its design to am othci , and , as some persons think , in the execution also .
Those v ho ait not ) e * Mr. Key says in a note In the year 1836 was published the Bromsgrove Latin Grammar , by the Rev. G. A. Jaeob ( late Scholar and Tutor of Worcester CoUege , Ox- * i i n " I*-- ,.fn\#187 ; m It 11non thfi P ford ) , which is drawn up in a great measure , " form system .
Mr. Jacob subsequently published a Greek Grammar on the same p an .
but far from uniformly , upon the crudexiv prepared to use the crude-form system in their teaching will find the part on Syntax very useful* .
The Philological Essays of Mr. Key were " in part published for the first time , in part reprinted from the Transactions of the Philological Society , but with many changes or additions .
" Of the useful essays in this volume , the following , in Two Parts , is worth a careful study :\#151 ; " Quae-ritur .
The Sanskrit language as the basis of Linguistic Science ; and the labours of the G-erman School in that field , are they not overvalued ?
" The author acknowledges the deepest obligations of all classical students to the scholars of Germany ; and he adds that in the question which he is now considering , the word " overvalued " is " quite compatible with an admission of great valueand this great value he does not deny .
He also acknowledges the signal services of Bopp , the founder , as he is named , of the science of Comparative Grammar .
The particular objections to some of the opinions of the Sanskritists can only be learned from the essay .
The objections to some of the theories of Bopp appear to be unanswerable ; some of those theories are properly termed " extravagancies , " and it is hard to conceive that any student of language can accept them .
The second part of " Quaeritur " treats of the ' Yergleichende Gram-matik ' of Bopp , the first portion of which was published in 1833 .
The book was republished with some changes and considerable additions in 1857-60 .
Mr. Key objects to the precedence which Bopp gives " to writing over sound ; " or , in other words , to languages which are written over languages which are only spoken ; and he objects for this reason , that " the error , so to call it , has told unfavourably on the arguments that follow .
" Accordingly Mr. Key objects to Bopp 's designation of i , u as the three original vowels , which error proceeds from Bopp not looking " upon the materials for oral language as belonging to the domain of physical science , and wholly independent of those other forms of language which are addressed to the eye .
" Bopp 's error also proceeds from knowing nothing of Professor " Willis 's experiments ( p. 272 ) on the vowel-sounds , which sounds " pass by imperceptible gradations from the one extreme i ( the sound in feet ) to the other u ( or oo in boot ) .
" The varieties of vowel-sounds are therefore infinite , or practically unlimited\#151 ; a fact which a careful observer of human speech would certainly know .
Another objection made to Bopp 's work is this :\#151 ; " The German philologer departing from the course marked out by his Indian authorities , refuses to accept the doctrine that all words are traceable back to verbs .
" This matter is discussed by Mr. Key at some length .
Mr. Key 's last work is on ' Language , its Origin and Development ' ( 1874 ) .
By language he means oral language ; and he says , " in this sense the word language will be always used , unless the contrary be * There is an article by Mr. Key on the advantages of the crude-form system in Bell 's ' English Journal of Education ' for December 1850 , vol. iv .
New Series , p. 44b .
stated .
" He adds , " a nobler subject of study camiot be conceived , for it forms the main instrument of man 's superior development , to which he owes it that he stands so far above the rest of the animal world .
" We shall here consider only the theories of the origin of language ; but the remainder of the book will well repay the labour of those who will read it carefully .
The theory of James Harris , in his 'Hermes , ' is that a " word is a voice articulate and significant by compact .
" This theory may now be allowed to repose quietly with Rousseau 's theory of the Social Contract ; no man will disturb their rest .
There are two other theories of the origin of Language , one of which is thus stated by Professor Max Muller:\#151 ; " that man in his primitive and perfect state possessed the faculty of giving expression to the rational conceptions of his mind ; " " that this faculty was an instinct , an instinct of the mind as irresistible as any other instinct ; ' " and further , " the faculty peculiar to man in his primitive state , by which every impression from without received its vocal expression from within , must be accepted as an ultimate fact .
" This theory puts an end to all inquiries on the origin of language .
Whether the progenitors of the human race were one perfect pair or many perfect pairs , they could transmit their language to their children in the way in which it is now transmitted .
But language is subject to change in the course of time and under new circumstances ; and it is easily corrupted , as we know .
The conclusion from this theory is that all languages which have existed and exist now , even the imperfect languages of savage people , are derived from this language of man " in his primitive and perfect state .
" The other theory is that of Mr. Key , and of others also , that language has been made by man .
All men speak , and all have the same organs of speech ; but there is a wonderful diversity in their speech ; and yet , as they use the same organs , we may expect to find some resemblance in their language , varied , however , by circumstances which are very different and often very difficult to estimate .
Mr. Key says , " I conclude with the expression of a strong opinion that original language is mimetic , in other words , consisted solely in the imitation of natural sounds ; " and in another place he says that " it is all but universally admitted that some portion of language owes its origin to an imitation of the sounds of nature .
" According to this theory man in his primitive state was not perfect , and he could not even speak ; his progress towards speaking was like his progress to other useful sciences and arts , slow and laborious through long ages of suffering and sorrow .
The ancient writers had a perception of this melancholy truth , as Horace ( Sat. i. 3 .
99 ) when he wrote " Cum prorepserunt primis animalia fcerris , Mutum et turpe pecus , " \amp ; c. ; on which Lyell ( ' Antiquity of Man ' ) says , " The opinion entertained generally by the classical writers of Greece and Rome , that man in the first stage of his existence was but just removed from the brutes , is faithfully xvi expressed by Horace .
The picture of transmutation given in these verses , however severe and contemptuous the strictures lavishly bestowed on it by Christian commentators , accords singularly with the train of thought which the modern doctrine of progressive development has encouraged .
" Those Comparative Grammarians , then , who accept this theory may still find something to do ; and they may try to explain the slow steps from imitation of natural sounds to the state in which language has existed and exists now among nations named civilized , and also among other nations where it is still near to its supposed original and rude condition .
Mr. Key has done something towards this end ; but future students of language may and ought to do more .
Mr. Key left an unfinished Latin Dictionary , the work of many years , for the Latin Language was the chief subject on which he was employed as a student and teacher .
In the Preface to his work on Language ( March 1874 ) he describes the Dictionary as filling more than 2400 pages of quarto MS .
, and including nearly all those words in which he thought himself able to make some improvement .
In the interval between 1874 and his death he made large additions to the MS .
, and his friends hope that the work may be published .
It will probably contain things which some scholars may not accept ; but it will certainly contain much valuable and original matter , such as may be expected from the long labours of an excellent Latin scholar and a student of language generally .
Mr. Key was tall , and his personal appearance was very striking and agreeable , especially when he was animated .
His countenance expressed great force of character and penetration .
A marble bust of him by T. Woolner , E.A. , was presented to University College a few months before his death by some of his old pupils and friends .
The character of Mr. Key may be partially known by those who read what he has written .
It was as elevated as his intellectual powers .
He was singularly modest and unaffected , but bold and free in his opinions .
He was a very good-tempered man , and an agreeable companion , an affectionate husband and father , a teacher beloved by his pupils , a faith-fid and generous friend , and a man of unspotted integrity .
No person knew him so well and so long as the writer of this notice , who for more than half a century enjoyed his friendship without one moment of interruption .
Charles Wheatstone was born in February 1802 , in the vicinity of Gloucester , and was educated at a private school in his native city , at which he evinced his predilection for Mathematics and Physics .
In 1823 , at the age of 21 , we find him , in conjunction with his brother , long since deceased , engaged in the manufacture and sale of musical instruments in London .
But his genius was not long in finding opportunities of development ; for in the same year he made his first contribution to science in a paper published in Thomson 's ' Annals of Philo- xvii sophy , ' entitled " New experiments on Sound , " containing the results of his earlier experiments on the vibrations of chords , rods , and surfaces , which excited so much attention among physicists , that it was reproduced the same year in the ' Annals de Chimie , ' and in the following year in ' Schweigger 's Jahrbuch .
' His next papers , also on Acoustics , were published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Science , ' on " New experiments on Audition , " in 1827 , and on " the Kaleidophone , " in the following year .
This elegant philosophical toy consists of a steel wire fixed vertically in a heavy base , or in a vice , and surmounted by a silvered glass bead .
If this , by an appropriate displacement , be thrown into a compound vibration , consisting of the simple vibration of its entire length accompanied by that of the first harmonic subdivision , a series of beautiful circular or elliptic epicycloidal curves are revealed by the persistence on the retina of the reflection of a fixed light from the glass bead ; and if a rectangular wire be employed , the dimensions of which are such that its periods of vibration in two planes at right angles to each other are in the simple harmonic ratios of 1 : 2 , 2 : 3 , or 3 : 4 , the curves formed respectively by the superposition of these two modes of vibration will be beautifully exhibited .
Subsequently , by an aptly contrived mechanism , Wheatstone succeeded in obtaining a visual combination of rectangular vibrations in any given ratio to each other .
The principle of the kaleidophone was subsequently applied in the construction of a photometer .
In this instrument a silvered bead is made to describe rapidly a narrow ellipse , or to oscillate in a straight line by means of an epicyclic train of the simplest construction ; the relative brightness of two lines , formed by the reflections of two lights to be compared , may be very readily estimated .
At this period of his life Acoustics ( doubtless in relation to his business ) engrossed the chief part of Wheatstone 's attention .
He was especially interested in the application of the free reed to musical instruments ; and the elegant little Symphonion , which , from the many objections to the needless employment of the breath , soon gave place to the bellows of the Accordion , offered ample evidence of the success of his labours in this direction .
In the construction of these instruments , the admirable mode of fingering , in which the successive notes are placed in double rows alternately on opposite sides of the instrument , so that consecutive notes on either side , which may be touched by the same finger , always belong to the same chord , must not remain unnoticed .
In 1828 Wheatstone wrote on the resonance of columns of air , and in 1831 on the transmission of musical sounds through rigid linear conductors , a subject which was subsequently well illustrated at the Polytechnic Institution by the transference to an upper room of music played in the basement .
In the same year he contributed to the British Association an experimental proof of Bernouilli 's theory of the vibrations of air in wind instruments .
His principal contribution to Acoustics is a memoir on the so-called Chladni 's figures , produced by strewing sand on VOL. XXTV .
0 xviii elastic planes , and throwing them into vibration by means o\#163 ; a violin-bow drawn across the edge ; this was presented to the Royal Society in 1833 , and subsequently published in their Transactions , and is probably the most remarkable of his early scientific labours ; for he showed that , in square or rectangular plates , every figure however complicated was the resultant of two or more sets of isochronous parallel vibrations ; and by means of some simple geometrical relations he carried out the principle of the " superposition of small motions " without the aid of any profound mathematical analysis , and succeeded in predicting the curves that given modes of vibration should produce .
In 1834 Wheatstone was appointed to the chair of Experimental Physics at King 's College , London .
In fulfilment of the duties of his office he delivered a course of eight lectures on Sound in the early part of the following year ; but his habitual though unreasonable distrust of his own powers of utterance proved to be an invincible obstacle , and he soon afterwards discontinued his lectures , but retained the professorship for many years .
Although any one would be charmed by his able and lucid exposition of any scientific fact or principle private , yet his attempt to repeat the same process in public invariably proved unsatisfactory .
An anecdote may here be mentioned in confirmation of this his peculiar idio-syncracy .
Wheatstone and the writer of this memoir were for several years members of a small private debating society , comprising several familiar names in science , art , or literature , that met periodically at one another 's houses to discuss some extemporized subject , and every member present was expected to speak : Wheatstone could never be induced to open his lips , even on subjects on which he was brimful of information .
Several of his more important investigations were for the same reasons from time to time brought before the public by Earaday in the theatre of the Royal Institution .
In 1835 Wheatstone communicated to the British Association a paper " On the Attempts which have been made to imitate Human Speech by Mechanical Means ; " and he produced a much improved edition of De Kempelen 's speaking-machine ; but his researches in this direction were not long continued , and have since been far surpassed by others .
The analogies of vibratory motion led the philosophic mind of Wheatstone from the subject of sound to that of light .
In 1838 he communicated to the Royal Society an account of some remarkable and hitherto unobserved phenomena of binocular vision , with a description of the reflecting stereoscope , an instrument by which these phenomena were first illustrated .
The conception that the idea of solidity is derived from the mental combination of two pictures of the same object in dissimilar perspective , as seen by the two eyes respectively , is undoubtedly and solely due to Wheatstone .
In demonstration of this principle he drew two outlines of the same geometrical figure or other object , just as they would be seen in perspective by either eye respectively ; and these outlines were xix so placed that they might be seen each by one eye , but visually superposed , either by reflection or by refraction ; this he effected by a combination of lenses either with plane reflectors or with prisms .
All that is really due to Brewster in relation to the stereoscope is the use of wedge-shaped segments of larger lenses , in which the lens and prism of Wheatstone are combined ; the construction now universally adopted , and popularized by the application of photography .
In 1852 Wheatstone presented a second memoir on Binocular Vision to the Boyal Society , in which he produced a striking confirmation of his former views by the invention of the Pseudoscope , an instrument in which the perspective pictures of a given object as seen by the two eyes respectively are reversed by internal reflection from the bases of two right-angled prisms , and convex objects appear to be concave , or vice versa ; thus a globe on which figures are traced will appear to be concave , and the inside of a painted basin or saucer to be convex , or the object as it were turned inside out .
The use of this instrument has produced some curious illustrations of mental phenomena : with most persons an object , of which the convexity or concavity is unknown , will at once appear inverted ; but when the real form is known , with some persons experience appears to overrule visual perception , and they cannot succeed in seeing the inversion of the object ; with others the appearance derived from previous knowledge persists for a shorter or longer period , and then suddenly gives way to the visual impression , and the object appears to be suddenly turned inside out ; while with others , again , the change is more or less gradual , and during the period of transition the visual impression is uncertain and indistinct .
In this memoir the idea of the mental character of binocular vision was still further supported by experimental evidence that the apparent magnitude of objects is governed by the relative position as well as the size of the visual pictures .
In fact the whole of these investigations may be viewed in their relation to mental conditions ; and when thus regarded , they possessed a higher interest than that which arose from their great value as contributions to physiological optics .
At one period , indeed , Wheatstone 's attention was for a time directed to problems of mental philosophy , and especially to the jaasi-mechanical solution of some of them , which was hoped for by the followers of Grail and Spurzheim .
; he was an active member of the London Phrenological Society , then presided over by Dr. Elliotson ; and in January 1832 he read at one of the meetings a paper on Dreaming and Somnambulism , wThich was published inextenso in the ' Lancet ' of that date .
This paper is remarkable , like all his writings , for the extreme clearness with which known facts are stated , and the deductions based upon them .
Amongst Wheatstone 's many ingenious inventions may be mentioned his automatic apparatus for recording periodically the height of the barometer , and the temperatures of the dry- and wet-bulb thermometers , by means of wires descending vertically in the open tubes , a circuit closed by the contact of the wire with either column of mercury indicating by electro-magnetic action the moment at which the contact takes place , and by inference the position of the point of contact .
Precisely the same principle , with minor modifications , has of late years been practically applied by Padre Secchi , and more recently by M. van Bvsselberghe .
Another is the electro-magnetic counter , by which the number of any given repeated mechanical actions is readily and certainly recorded ; and the electric chronoscope , by which very small intervals of time may be determined ( as , for example , in estimating the velocity of projectiles ) , must also be mentioned .
Cryptography , or the art of writing in ciphers , is indebted to him for a compendious apparatus , by which the characters representing the successive letters of the written communication are periodically changed by the machine , so as to defy the ordinary well-known methods of deciphering .
The receiver , possessing a machine set by agreement in the same manner as that of the sender , can immediately decipher the dispatch by reversing the process by which the cipher was constructed .
The fact , discovered by Brewster , that the plane of polarization of the sky is always 90 ' from the sun , gave rise to Wheatstone 's " Polar Clock , " which consists of a double-image prism and a thin plate of selenite enclosed in a tube placed parallel to the earth 's axis .
When the prism , which carries an index traversing a circular arc marked with the hours , is turned round until no colour is perceived , the index , when once adjusted , will mark the hour of the day ; this is a pleasing philosophical toy , but of little practical utility .
The name of Wheatstone is intimately connected with the earliest development of spectrum-analysis .
In a paper on " The Prismatic Analysis of Electric Light , " read before the Meeting of the British Association at Dublin in 1835 , he announced the existence of bright lines in the spectrum , emitted by the incandescent vapour of metals volatilized by the heat of an electric discharge .
lie was then the first to demonstrate the fact that the spectrum of the electric spark from different metals presented respectively more or less numerous rays of definite refrangibility , producing each a series of lines differing in position and colour from each other , and that thus the presence of a very minute portion of any given metal might be determined .
" We have here , " he adds , a mode of discriminating metallic bodies more readily than that of chemical examination , and which may hereafter be employed for useful purposes .
" This remark has been abundantly verified by the many important recent investigations that have been based on spectrum-analysis\#151 ; such , for example , as the discovery and isolation of thallium by Mr. Crookes .
It would occupy too much space to enumerate all Wheatstone 's ingenious contrivances ; but his most important contribution to the wants or conveniences of civilization , the practiced electric telegraph , must now be xxi considered .
On this point it has been justly remarked by De la Rive * that " the philosopher who was the first to contribute by his labours , as ingenious as they were persevering , in giving to electric telegraphy the practical character that it now ' possesses , is undoubtedly Mr. Wheatstone .
" He has no more claim to the title of " inventor " of the electric telegraph than any one of those who have long preceded him in proposing unpractical schemes for transmitting signals to a distant station , first by franklinic , and subsequently by voltaic electricity .
The earliest of these appears to be Stephen Gray , wffio in 1727 suspended by silk threads a wire 700 feet long ; and on applying an excited glass tube to one end of the wire electrification was observed by an assistant to occur at the other end .
Similar experiments were made by Dufay a few years subsequently , and by Winckler of Leipsic , by Lemonnier of Paris in 1746 , and by Dr. Watson , Bishop of Llandaff , in 1747 , one of whose experiments had a remarkable ( but then unnoticed ) bearing on electro-telegraphy , namely , the employment of the earth to conduct the return current : he stretched a wire across the Thames , one end of which was attached to the exterior coating of a Leyden jar , wrhile the interior coating was connected to earth through the body of the experimenter , and the other end wTas held by an assistant , who grasped an iron rod ; the moment the latter dipped the rod in the river both felt a shock .
He subsequently experimented on much longer circuits , one of which w as 10,600 feet in length , suspended from wooden poles erected on Shooter 's Hill .
Pranklin made similar experiments across the Schuykill at Philadelphia in 1748 , and De Luc about the same time across the Lake of Geneva .
The earliest definite scheme for the employment of franklinic electricity for telegraphic purposes was propounded by " C. M. , " an anonymous writer in the ' Scot 's Magazine ' for 1753 ; this required a separate insulated conductor for each letter ; and a very similar idea was subsequently carried out at Geneva by Lesage in 1774 .
Lomond was the first to propose in 1787 the transmission of various signals through a single line-wire ; this he effected by the varied movement of the pith balls of a delicate electroscope ; and Cavallo in 1795 proposed to effect the same object by varied combinations of sparks and pauses .
In 1810 Tiancis Ronalds proposed the hopeless scheme of employing two perfectly isochronous clocks to indicate continuously the same letters or numerals at the two stations , the signal intended being indicated by simultaneous sparks at both .
This telegraph was offered to the Government by the inventor , who received an official reply from the then Secretary of the Admiralty , that " telegraphs of any kind are now w'holly useless , and no other than the one now in use will be adopted"\#151 ; a conspicuous example of the slow progress proverbially due to the inertia o\#163 ; great bodies .
The first proposal to employ voltaic electricity for telegraphic purposes appears to have been made by S. T. Summering , a surgeon , to the Aea-* 1 Treatise on Electricity , ' pt .
vii .
ch .
1 .
xxii demi of Sciences at Munich in 1808 ; this involved a separate insulated conductor for each letter and numeral , any two of which might be indicated by a small evolution of gas from two corresponding gold points immersed in a common fluid .
A very similar system was suggested by Prof. Coxe of Philadelphia in 1810 , who proposed to indicate the signals by the decomposition of some metallic salt .
Prof. Schweigger of Erlangen proposed to reduce the number of conductors in Sommering 's telegraph to two , and to employ an electric pistol to call attention at the receiving station .
In relation to the dawn of practical electro-telegraphy , the names of Eroment in France , of Gauss , " Weber , and Steinheil in Germany , and of Morse in America , will immediately suggest themselves , but to Charles Wheatstone is undoubtedly due the merit of having been the first to render the electric telegraph practically available .
In 1834 , the year of his appointment to the Professorship , he devised an experiment which at once attracted the attention of scientific minds throughout Europe , and ultimately had a large influence in determining the direction of his future labours .
His object was to ascertain the rate at which an electric wave travels through a metallic conductor .
For this purpose about half a mile of copper wire was insulated by suspension in the vaults under King 's College ; and three interruptions of this circuit were made by three pairs of small brass knobs , with a small interval between them , placed in a horizontal line at a few inches distance from each other , one being near each end of the conductor , and the other one at its middle point .
It was presumable that the positive and negative terminal sparks produced by the discharge of a Leyden jar through the insulated wire would be absolutely simultaneous , but if any perceptible time were occupied by the passage of the wave , the middle spark would occur later than the terminal ones .
To determine this a small plane mirror mounted on an axis parallel to the line of sparks was made to revolve with great rapidity by a train of clockwork .
If any sensible angle were described by the mirror during the passage of the wave , the middle spark would be seen either above or below the line joining the other two , according to the direction of rotation of the mirror .
This in fact proved to be the case ; and from the estimated amount of displacement and rate of rotation , the velocity of transmission was inferred to be over 250,000 miles in one second ; but from the nature of the observation the limits of error are necessarily very wide .
This experiment was subsequently repeated with an extended circuit of nearly four miles , which was further utilized in the transmission of electric signals by the deflections of a galvanometer-needle .
In 1836 Mr. W. F. Cooke having been struck , during a visit to Germany , by the applicability of an electric telegraph devised by Baron Schilling to practical and especially to railway purposes , brought back with him on his return to London a working model of Schilling 's apparatus , to which he directed the attention of Faraday and of the then Secretory of the Royal Society , Dr. Roget , by whom he was informed that Wheatstone had been for some time engaged in analogous investigations .
^ An introduction followed , and shortly afterwards Wheatstone entered into partnership with Mr. Cooke , and a patent for a five-needle telegraph ( which from the number of insulated conductors was deemed too expensive for general use ) , and subsequently another patent for the two-needle telegraph , the first that came into general use , were taken out m their joint names .
To Mr , ( now Sir W. F. ) Cooke much credit is undoubtedly due for the tact and ability he evinced in directing public attention to the importance of the electric telegraph , and in conducting the joint enterprise to a most successful commercial issue ; but to Wheatstone alone must be ascribed the inventive genius and fertility of scientific resource which led to the many successive developments of the electric telegraph\#151 ; the lettershowing dial telegraph in 1840 , the type-printing telegraph in 1841 , the magneto-electric dial telegraph , a subsequent extension of the same to typo-embossing , and lastly the automatic telegraph , by which messages are transmitted with such unprecedented rapidity .
It must also be borne in mind that the idea of subaqueous telegraphy was first developed by Wheatstone .
It appears from his manuscripts that in 1837 he devoted a good deal of time and attention to this subject ; and in the Bulletin de l'Academie Royale de Bruxelles for October 7 , 1840 , in a notice by Prof. Quetelet of his telegraph instruments , it is remarked:\#151 ; " On sera sans doute charm d'apprendre que hauteur a trouve le moyen de transmettre les signaux entre l'Angleterre et la Belgique , malgre l'obstacle de la mer. " But it appears that his first practical essays at submarine telegraphy were made in the autumn of 1844 in Swansea Bay , with the assistance of Mr. J. D. Llewellyn .
More recently the Society of Arts , in tendering precisely the same award for public services to the two former partners , failed to discriminate between very successful commercial tact and ability , and both inventive and constructive genius of an exceptionally high order ; under these circumstances it is not surprising that Wheatstone should have declined the proffered distinction , considering that he could present no claim to that commercial merit which it must be , from its title , the special function of that Society to foster .
But scientific honours were profusely bestowed on the great physicist ; lie was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1836 , a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour in 1855 , and a foreign Associate of the Academy of Sciences of France in 1873 ; he moreover possessed thirty-four distinctions or diplomas conferred upon him by various governments , universities , and learned societies , of which eight are German , six French , five English , three Swiss , two Scotch , two Italian , two American , and of Irish , Belgian , Russian , Swedish , Dutch , and Brazilian each one .
In 1868 the Government of Lord Derby conxxiv ferred on him the honour of knighthood , an honour so variously bestowed that it can only be viewed as a bare recognition of scientific labours which have rarely been equalled in their extent , their variety , and their fruitfulness .
Charles Wheatstone was not less conspicuous for his sagacity in perceiving the practical bearings of ascertained scientific principles , than for his ingenuity in devising suitable mechanical means for their application to useful purposes .
He was one of the first , if not the very first , in this country , to appreciate the importance of Ohm 's beautiful and simple law of the relation between electromotive force , resistance of conductors , and resulting current ; he thence rightly inferred that in establishing electric intercommunication between two distant stations by means of the deflections of a galvanometer-needle , or the attraction of an iron keeper by an electromagnet , the coil of which is actuated by a current sent from the other station , the resistance of the coil must necessarily be small compared with that of the intervening conductor , and hence that a coil of much larger resistance than was at first contemplated might be beneficially employed : Ohm 's law in fact affords the means of determining in any given circuit the quality of coil by which the largest amount of dynamic energy may be imparted to the moving mechanism .
Very early in his electrical researches Wheatstone perceived the necessity of some more accurate means of measuring resistances and the strength of currents than even the most sensitive tangent-galvanometer presented ; it occurred to him that small differences between two currents might be much more accurately determined by sending them in opposite directions through the coil of a sensitive sine-galvanometer , the needle of which will then be affected only by their difference , than by estimating the small differences of displacement of the needle due to small differences in a single current .
Accordingly he devised the well-known " Bridge , " which has been , and must ever continue to be , the basis of all accurate quantitative determinations in electricity .
In this instrument the two portions of a divided current are conducted in opposite directions through the galvanometer-coil and again reunited ; and the resistance sought is interposed in one circuit , and " balanced " by known resistance interposed in the other circuit until the needle is brought to zero .
The form of this instrument has varied considerably from that originally proposed , but the principle is precisely the same .
As necessary adjuncts to this instrument , Wheatstone proposed as a unit of resistance one foot in length of soft pure copper wire , weighing 100 grains , and constructed a series of " resistance-coils , " each coil containing some decimal multiple of the proposed unit ; he also devised the " rheostat , " consisting of a fine wire wound in the thread of a screw cut on the surface of a cylinder of non-conducting material , any portion of which wire may be put into or taken out of the circuit by merely turning the cylinder on its axis by a handle .
But several circumstances rendered XXV Wheatstone 's proposed unit unavailable , viz. the difficulty of maintaining uniformity in the size and quality of the wire , the variation of resistance produced by any molecular disturbance , such as change of temperature , stretchiug or bendiug , and the instability of resistance , even when the wire is protected from mechanical disturbance ; and the British Association unit is now generally adopted .
Wheatstone was the first to appreciate the importance of reducing to a minimum the amount of work to be done by the current at the receiving station , by diminishing as far as practicable the mass and therefore the inertia of the moving parts ; this was beautifully exemplified in that marvel of ingenuity the magneto-electric letter-showing telegraph , now generally adopted for private telegraphic communication , in which the wheel attached to the index is as delicate as the scape-wheel of a small Geneva watch .
And there are one or two more points of construction in this admirable instrument which , as exemplars of the mind of the inventor , should not escape notice .
Faraday had discovered that if a soft iron keeper furnished with armatures revolve in front of the poles of a permanent magnet , instantaneous currents in opposite directions are developed as the revolving keeper approaches to and recedes from the position of maximum induction ; accordingly Wheatstone placed four fixed armatures coiled alternately in opposite directions in front of the poles of a small but powerful permanent magnet , and made the keeper alone to rotate in close proximity to the iron cores of the armatures ; as therefore the extra currents induced by the keeper in receding from one and ing the other pair of armatures coincide in direction and reinforce each other , four equal currents , alternately positive and negative , will be developed by each revolution of the iron keeper ; and these , by causing a pair of magnetic needles , moving on an axis passing through their common centre of gravity , to oscillate between a pair of small electro-magnets , actuate the index of the receiving instrument .
Another peculiarly happy and simple contrivance in this apparatus must also be mentioned .
The letters of the alphabet surround the trans-mitting-dial ; and opposite each of these is a stud at the end of a ladial lever , the depression of which closes a short circuit , which intercepts all currents when the index arrives at the corresponding letter , and the indicator of the receiving instrument consequently stops at the same letter , it having been first ascertained that they start in unison .
It then became necessary that the depression of any other lever should raise the one previously depressed ; and for this purpose some very complicated arrangements of interacting levers wrere first devised , but the plan adopted is remarkable for its simplicity : a circular endless chain lies in a groove beneath all the levers , in which there is just " slack " enough to allow of the depression of one lever ; consequently the depression of any other pulls up the former , and opens the short circuit previously closed .
The catalogue of Wheatstone 's valuable labours is still far from being exhausted ; but it must now suffice only to mention some of his unpublished and incomplete researches , of which many exist , and will be , it is hoped , by some means made public .
At the early part of his career , when his thoughts were mainly directed to Acoustics , he endeavoured to investigate the causes of the differences of " timbre " or quality of tone in different musical instruments , presuming it to depend on the nature of superposed secondary vibrations , and of the material by which they are affected .
This the writer has frequently , but in vain , urged him to complete and publish ; but such was the fecundity of his imagination that ho would frequently work steadily for a time at a given subject , and then entirely put it aside in pursuit , it may be , of some more important or more practical idea that had presented itself to his mind .
A short treatise is in existence on the capabilities of his well-known wave-machine , in which rows of white balls , mounted on rods , are actuated in two directions perpendicular to each other by guides or templets with suitable curved outlines ; by means of this machine many combinations of plane and helical waves may be demonstrated , and especially those related to the theory of polarized light .
In furtherance of this subject he devised a new form or mode of geometrical analysis , to which he gave the title of Bifarial Algebra , in which both the magnitude and the relative position of lines on a plane surface are designed to be represented by the introduction of two new symbols to represent positive and negative perpendicular directions .
The same principle has also been extended to three dimensions , with a further proposal of new symbols , under the name of Trifarial Algebra .
On this subject a brief treatise exists in manuscript .
Amongst the subjects of his more recent but still incomplete investigations in Light and Electricity the following may be mentioned :\#151 ; Colours of transparent and opaque bodies .
Colours obtained by transmission and reflection .
Absorption-bands in coloured liquids .
Spectroscopic examination of light reflected from opaque and dichroic bodies .
Electromotive forces of various combinations .
Inductive capacities of various bodies .
Experiments on electro-capillarity .
Telegraph construction .
Construction of relays .
Such of these as may be found sufficiently advanced to be of any scientific value will probably be made public in a collective form .
Charles Wheatstone was married on the 12th of February , 1847 , and had a family of five children , who survive him , Mrs. Wheatstone having deceased many years , He died in Paris on the 19th of October , 1875 , whence xxvii his remains were removed to his residence in Park Crescent , and were followed to their last resting-place in the cemetery at Kensal Green by a numerous assemblage of attached friends , with some of whom he had maintained an uninterrupted intimacy from his early manhood , and by several leading members of the scientific world , who felt it due to his great merit to pay this last tribute of regard to his memory .
This memoir cannot be more suitably concluded than by the expressions of M. Dumas , perpetual Secretary of the French Academy of Sciences , uttered on the occasion of the removal of the remains from Paris :_ " To render to genius the homage which is its due , without regard to country or origin , is to honour one 's self .
The Paris Academy of Sciences , always sympathizing with English science , did not hesitate , during the troubled time of the wars of the Empire , to decree a ' grand prix ' to Sir Humphry Davy .
Now in a time of peace it comes to fulfil with grief a duty of affection to one of his noblest successors , by gathering round his coffin to offer him a last homage .
A foreign Associate of the Academy of Sciences , exercising by a rare privilege in virtue of that title all the rights of its members during his life , we are bound to render to his mortal remains the same tribute which we render to fellow-countrymen who are our colleagues .
The memory of Sir C. Wheatstone will live among us not only for his discoveries and for the methods of investigation with wffiich he has endowed science , but also by the recollection of his rare qualities of heart , the uprightness of his character , and the agreeable charm of his personal demeanour .
The friends that he has left among us , unable to avert destiny , hope that they were at least able to soothe the last hours of his life\#151 ; of that life which , alas !
was closed away from his beloved home , from that family circle the sweet recollection of which animated his last hours , and to which the eye of the dying one turned once more , before his soul , quitting its earthly tenement , took its flight to a better world .
" Justus Liebig was born at Darmstadt on the 13th of May , 1803 .
He went to school at the Gymnasium of that town .
His father was a dealer in drugs and colours .
Experiments in the production of colours and chemical products undertaken by his father early excited in the youthful Liebig a fondness for chemistry , which was further developed by the study of the chemical works in the Darmstadt Library .
It is stated that in the fourteenth year of his age there was not a volume of a chemical journal in this large library that he had not read through , and that there was no chemical experiment which he had not repeated when his means permitted .
The ease with which he obtained all that was requisite for experimenting procured for him early great dexterity in the art of analysis .
His was one of those fortunate natures which early becomes conscious of its power , and he soon made up his mind to be a chemist .
His father xxviii yielded to his wish to devote himself wholly to chemistry ; and Liebig took the only means then available of cultivating the science and placed himself under the t uition of a druggist at Heppenheim .
He remained there , however , for only ten months .
His taste for analysis found there no scope , and at last an explosion of fulminating silver in the house of his master suddenly terminated his pharmaceutic career .
He then returned to Darmstadt , where he passed half a year in further study .
At the age of eighteen we find him at the University of Bonn , and he afterwards studied at Erlangen , where he took a degree , and where he published his first chemical paper in 1822 .
This paper first appeared in Biichner 's ' Repertorium flir die Phar-macie , ' Band xii .
, under the title " Ueber die Bereitung und Zusam-mensetzung des Brugnatellischen und Howard'schen Knallsilbers , von Herrn Liebig , der Chemie Beflissenen aus Darmstadt .
" Prof. Kastner accompanies this paper with the following notice :\#151 ; " The readers must receive with indulgence this first attempt of a young chemist .
The author has already studied chemistry zealously in Bonn , and has pursued his studies here in Erlangen in the same spirit .
" Liebig had felt while at Erlangen the necessity of going to Paris to complete his education ; and he was fortunate enough to obtain from the Grand Duke of Darmstadt a travelling stipend for that object .
In 1823 we find him in Paris .
It was his earnest wish to be admitted to Gay-Lussac 's Laboratory ; this , however , could not be , as Gay-Lussac at that time admitted no young people .
He succeeded , however , in entering Thenard 's Laboratory , and there he resumed his investigation of fulminating silver .
This research brought him to the meeting of the French Academy of Sciences in July 1823 , which was to form an era in Liebig 's life .
He read a paper " On an Analytical Examination of Howard 's Fulminating Silver and Mercury Compounds .
" At the conclusion of the meeting , as he was engaged in packing up his preparations , a Member of the Academy came forward and entered into conversation with him .
With the most captivating friendliness the stranger made inquiries about Liebig 's studies and other occupations and plans , and invited him to dinner at the Palais Royal .
They separated without Liebig having had courage to inquire who the stranger was .
It was Alexander von Humboldt , who had returned to Paris the day before from Italy after a long absence .
Humboldt now recommended his young country-man , who had so quickly and completely won his heart , to his friend Gay-Lussac , for Humboldt knew too well from his own experience the value of working under Gay-Lussac .
The time which Liebig spent with Gay-Lussac is indisputably the most interesting part of his student life .
We may imagine the pleasure these two men must have had in their intercourse : the one 45 years of age and at the summit of his fame , the other scarce 20 years old , but full xxix of promise of future greatness .
It is related by Liebig that when they had accomplished some difficult work , such , for instance , as satisfactorily finishing a difficult analysis , Gay-Lussac would often take him by the hand and the two would dance together around the laboratory table .
The result of Liebig 's study under Gay-Lussac was that the latter recommended the youtli so strongly to the Grand Duke Ludwig , that the Grand Duke on his own responsibility appointed him Professor Extraordinary of Chemistry at the University of Giessen .
It will easily be understood that Liebig was regarded with jealousy by the majority of his elder colleagues , and found but little support and sympathy iu his endeavours for the reform of chemical instruction .
Liebig , however , was able to overcome all obstacles .
Two years afterwards he was promoted to the Professorship of Chemistry .
He made every arrangement within his power , even at his own personal expense and risk , for his own and his students ' work .
His reputation rapidly increased ; and when it had at last spread to such an extent that young chemists came from all parts of Europe to work under him , the State at length resolved to build him a large Chemical Laboratory outside of Giessen .
Liebig 's scientific activity may be divided into two periods , the first from 1824 to about 1839 , which was specially devoted to pure Chemistry , and the second from 1840 , when his labours in the department of Applied Chemistry began to be prominent .
There is scarcely a branch of chemistry into which Liebig 's activity did not extend .
Perhaps no other chemist excepting Berzelius had accomplished so many difficult investigations .
The 'Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie , ' which he edited conjointly with others , contain more than 200 papers on various branches of pure and applied chemistry .
Great as were Liebig 's services in , all branches of the science , that of Organic Chemistry is chiefly indebted to him , and he is accordingly called the founder of Organic Chemistry .
There may be a difference of opinion as to how far its foundation was ali'eady laid , but it cannot be denied that Liebig contributed more than any other chemist of his time to the edifice .
The so-called organic substances originating in plants and animals had , at the period when Liebig entered on his scientific career , been already the subject of many chemical researches , and it was already known that all , unlimited as they are in number , contained carbon combined with hydrogen , and sometimes oxygen or nitrogen in regular proportions ; but just as it was supposed that they owed their origin to other than chemical forces , it was imagined that their relation to each other was something quite different from that subsisting between inorganic mineral substances .
But Liebig soon came to the distinct conviction that even if there XXX were a generic difference between organic and inorganic substances , no chemical difference could be assumed .
He was convinced that there could be only one chemistry , and took upon himself the task of effecting a scientific connexion between the two branches .
His investigation of fulminic acid had already carried him in this direction .
He and Gay-Lussac had found it to be a compound of carbon , nitrogen , and oxygen , and he then discovered the corresponding compound of cyanogen with sulphur , and investigated melam and its other products of decomposition .
After Graham had established the tribasic character of the common phosphates , Liebig showed that some organic salts had a similar constitution .
But peculiar difficulty was presented by the constitution of certain neutral organic substances , such as alcohol , ether , essential oils , \amp ; c. Liebig endeavoured to get a key to their constitution by investigating the action of simple materials upon them , such as chlorine and bromine , \amp ; c. , and often led his students into this line of work .
In this way a great number of the most remarkable substances were discovered , some of which in future years were of practical use , though the object of the investigator was purely scientific .
Thus Liebig discovered chloral long before Liebreich discovered its medicinal qualities .
These labours of Liebig appeared at first to the masses as a useless toying with chemistry , and were often laughed at .
To this the very unusual names selected may possibly have contributed : as an instance we may mention the following :\#151 ; When he found out the composition of a to him most important compound , which he looked upon as alcohol which had parted with some of its hydrogen , he named the new substance Aldehyde , an abbreviation of alcohol dehydrogenisatus .
This strangely sounding word excited the astonishment or even the derision of those who had been accustomed to hear new mineral substances named either after the places where they had been discovered or after their inventors , or after distinguished or influential persons , or to hear people speak of Scheele 's and Schweinfurt green or Berlin blue .
For Liebig the chief difference between organic and inorganic substances was that the former contain compound radicals , whereas the latter are similarly built up of elements .
A joint research of Liebig and Wohler on the subject of compound radicals was fruitful of important results .
They examined oil of bitter almonds and benzoic acid , and discovered the radical benzoyl , a group of three elements , which was capable of combining like an element with chlorine , hydrogen , \amp ; c. Berzelius was greatly interested in this discovery , and declared that it was the dawn of a new day in Vegetable Chemistry .
He went so far as to say that he would like to see the first radical discovered , which consisted of more than two simple substances , named Proin or Orthrin .
No man is infallible ; and Liebig , of course , made occasional mistakes .
xxxi It is said by Dr. Pettenkofer that if be thought a substance was this or that or contained some particular body , he would frequently ask a student m whom he had confidence , to examine the substance .
If the student faded to find at once what Liebig expected , his confidence in the skill of the student always fell much more quickly than his confidence in the iustice .
^1S onglnal ^ea .
He would even naively say , " But you must find it .
^ If the student still failed to find it he would sink still lower in Liebig s opinion , but would be sure to raise himself again if he took an independent tone and gave indisputable proofs that Liebig 's idea was erroneous , and suggested a better explanation of the phenomena .
Of course it was natural that this habit of adherence to an idea once taken up increased on Liebig with years .
But what furthered Liebig 's progress so much alongside with his unusual mental gifts and quickness of comprehension was his methodical way of working .
lie saved himself and others an immense amount of time in research by adopting good methods .
Liebig had learnt elementary analysis with Thenard and Gay-Lussac ; but when he set to work with such intensity at Giessen to determine the carbon , hydrogen , and nitrogen of organic bodies , it must have been most annoying to him to require so much time and apparatus .
Just as he had in his early years at Erlangen made up his mind that he must go to Paris to complete his education , so he now saw that he must contrive a simpler method of elementary analysis if Organic Chemistry was to be developed .
This important task occupied him for some years , but he accomplished it at last .
By degrees he got the apparatus into such a simple and sure form that it surpassed in quickness and accuracy the ordinary methods of mineral analysis .
This being accomplished , the questions about the quantitative composition of organic bodies could now be easily answered .
The five-bulb apparatus which Liebig contrived to make out of glass tubing enabled him to absorb with facility and accuracy the carbonic acid formed by the combustion of organic bodies .
It has become an emblem of the Giessen school .
Probably the most important service rendered by Liebig to science was the establishment of the Giessen School of Chemistry .
He had experienced in his own person the difficulty of getting a training in the higher branches of the science from the lack of chemical schools .
This difficulty had at length been overcome in his case ; but only his individual wants were thus satisfied by his accidental meeting with A. von Humboldt , by whose means he was admitted to Gay-Lussac 's Laboratory .
What he had obtained by a happy accident he made accessible to all in Germany .
The founding of the Chemical Laboratory in Giessen , for purposes of public and practical instruction , was quite an epoch in the history of science .
What unexampled activity reigned in those Chemical Halls !
There met and worked from morning to evening the future professor of chemistry , the future manufacturer .
All the xxxii dialects of Germany might be heard there , nay every European language , and in one hall , somewhat predominating , the English language\#151 ; all mixing and yet in order , for every one felt that he was striving for a noble object \gt ; he was serving science ; in other words , he was a pupil of Liebig .
And how inspiriting was this meeting together of earnest youths under such a master !
Many a noble and life-long friendship was founded by community of work and aims .
And Liebig had mostly a bit of good advice or a happy thought , which helped one who had got into either a scientific or an experimental difficulty , and which would float him again in the right direction .
All who know what this school of Liebig on the Lahn was , and what other opportunities there existed for chemical study , will easily comprehend that there was a time when any one who had a longing for thorough chemical study felt an irresistible call to Giessen .
Liebig is much to be applauded and admired in that he knew so clearly the kind of school he must make in order to effect real good .
Others before him had felt that chemical students ought to do practical work in the laboratory ; but they had not the support of public opinion , or of the governing bodies of educational institutions , and were not strong enough to break through the hindrances ' around them .
It is even told that when one professor at a small University attempted to have a little practical school of Chemistry , his colleagues regarded it as a useless squandering of reagents and coals ; and the few students who went to this class were quite pitied by the rest for their credulity in fancying the professor would be so foolish as to show them the right operations and make them professors too .
Erom the very first Liebig went on the principle of teaching his pupils chemistry without any reference to special applications , and of putting them in possession of the knowledge which they were afterwards to apply .
The application he left to themselves .
Just then many so-called technical schools were being founded where it was intended that only such parts of natural science should be taught as were useful for some branch of industry .
In such a school the future brewer should study malt and hops , the dyer colours , the agriculturist soils and manures , and so on , but not be burdened with subjects of which the pupil in his future career was not likely to make any practical application .
Liebig steadfastly opposed this unintelligent utilitarianism .
People in great technical businesses soon began to see how pei'fectly in the right Liebig was in this idea ; and he was constantly applied to , not merely for chemical teachers , but even for chemists , and not merely for chemists to assist in chemical works and soda manufactories , but for paper manufactories , colour works , breweries , \amp ; c. In this way not merely eminent investigators and teachers came forth from Liebig 's school , but many very distinguished practical men .
Two other subjects yet remain to be mentioned to complete the picture of xxxiii ' The Annals of Chemistry and Pharmacy ' ry .
' Before Liebig 's time there was no periodical which was exclusively devoted to Chemistry .
Chemistry was then more nearly connected with pharmacy ; and as m the practice of pharmacy the results of chemistry came so closely into application , Liebig 's first researches were published m the Magazine for Pharmacy founded by the apothecary Hiinle , and afterwards continued by the apothecary Geiger in Heidelberg .
^ ^ie year Liebig founded , in conjunction with Geiger , the 4 Annalen der Pharmacie , ' which now became entirely his organ .
With the publication of the 33rd volume , Wohler became one of the editors , and the title was changed to ' Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie , ' in order , as Liebig said , to bring the title and the contents more into unison !
Later on Ivopp , and still later Erlenmeyer and Yolhard , all pupils of Liebig , joined in the editing .
The ' Chemical Letters , ' as is well known , originated in a series of essays published in the Augsburg Gazette .
These letters were remarkable specimens of exact science popularized for educated people .
Liebig 's active mind led him to an earnest consideration of the chemical processes involved in agriculture and physiology .
Having paid more attention to the study of organic bodies than any other chemist , he naturally felt a desire to consider these substances in connexion with their functions , and the circumstances under which they were developed .
How fruitful his labours were in this direction is already well known .
What is called Liebig 's agricultural chemistry was developed in two periods .
The first period from 1840 to 1846 in Giessen , and the second from 1856 to 1862 in Munich , whither he migrated in 1852 .
His views on vegetable and animal physiology were first expounded in a work which was published by Vieweg in Brunswick in 1840 , with the title " Die Chemie in ihrer Anwendung auf Agricultur und Physiologie .
" This book originated in the following manner:\#151 ; The British Association for the Advancement of Science , at its Liverpool Meeting in 1837 , requested Liebig to publish a report of the present state of knowledge in the department of Organic Chemistry .
He expressed his willingness to do so , but proposed that Dumas should share the task with him .
Dumas seemed disinclined , and Liebig brought out his 'Agricultural Chemistry .
' The result of its publication was astonishing .
It went through no less than six important editions in six consecutive years , and excited an immense amount of interest .
The stir made by this book was so great that Dumas , as the first chemical authority in France , felt it necessary one year later to publish a somewhat similar work in the French language , and formally to claim for France on this occasion the main principles enunciated in Liebig 's work : " Elies appartiennent a notre ecole dont l'esprit est vcnu s'exercer sir ce terrain nouveau .
" Many of Liebig 's countrymen expressed strong dissent from his views ; VOL. XXIV .
d Liebig 's scientific activity and his ' Letters on Chemi xxxiv and Berzelius at first expressed himself as very doubtful about them , ' and after some years got into actual hostility with Liebig about this application of chemistry , which he called " Probabilitats-Theorien .
" In his Jahresbericht of 1841 , Berzelius said that Liebig 's book was executed with all the talent which one would expect of so distinguished an author , but he does not conceal his opinion that Liebig had erected an edifice which was but too insecure .
He said that Boussingault was working in the same field as Liebig , but was taking the long and difficult road , answering every inquiry by one or more experiments , that he did not give his answers so quickly , but they might be relied on .
This partly cautious , partly dissentient , and partly actually hostile attitude of the agriculturists , physiologists , and chemists seemed only to tune to a louder key the enthusiasm and applause of the general public ; but this wras probably no satisfaction to Liebig , for of all the applauding crowd who besides his own pupils surrounded him , not one was able to bring Berzelius over to different views , to weaken the experiments of Braconnot , and the objections of Boussingault , or to convince the sceptical agriculturists and controversial physiologists .
Then , perhaps for the first time in his life , Liebig may have oft felt right lonely , despite the homage of the masses ; for even his best friends and scholars saw too well that Liebig in this high flight ( this book ) had often maintained more than he had proved , that the proof was in many points still wanting .
At no time did Liebig profess to be the first who had made chemical experiments in agriculture .
In fact , in the dedication of his book to Alexander von Humboldt , he says , " I hardly know whether even a part of the little work which I make bold to dedicate to you is my own .
" What , then , was it which caused so much excitement ?
It was the idea which Liebig brought so prominently forward , that plants alone are capable of assimilating inorganic materials , such as carbonic acid , water , and ammonia , and of building up complex substances such as albumen , starch , and fat , \amp ; c. ; while animals live upon these complex products and reduce them to simpler ones .
Liebig undertook the determination of the ashes in several parts of many varieties of plants and from different localities .
He cared little for analyses of soils hitherto considered so important , especially how much humus an earth contained , but he wanted specially to know what each plant did with the earth on which it grew .
It soon appeared that all plants leave qualitatively the same mineral constituents in their ashes , but that every kind of plant , so to say , yields its own peculiar ash , inasmuch as different kinds , even when growing on the same soil , take up its mineral constituents in very different proportions .
It was soon found that wheat , rye , barley , \amp ; c. have their distinct ashes , also the grains of a corn compared to the corresponding straws .
XXXV As it was not enough to know the ashes of a particular plant grown m a particular region , but was desirable to get them from as many different plants , fields , and regions as possible , so Liebig procured ashes from all possible localities .
Just as a merchant writes letters of business to all parts , so Liebig sent about letters everywhere for analyses of In order to make the work of analysis as easy as possible , his pupils Will and Fresenius had worked out and published an excellent method of ash analysis j and in a short time thousands of analyses were made of the most different plants and parts of plants in very different localities .
He found that each plant takes an exact quantity of mineral matter and in an exact proportion , which may be recovered again from its ashes ; and he concluded that whatever else the plant requires for the formation of its combustible constituents is derived from the carbonic acid , water , and ammonia of the air .
Irom these views Liebig laid down the rule that to keep a wheat or corn-field fertile one has only to return to it the mineral constituents which have been taken out by the crops , and in the proportions in which those minerals are present in the ashes of each crop .
Liebig induced the distinguished alkali manufacturer Muspratt , in Liverpool , to prepare mineral manures for wheat , rye , oats , clover , potato , and other fields .
The different manures were manufactured according to a method invented by Liebig , which consisted in melting together the necessary substances , so that salts easily soluble in water were brought into an almost insoluble form that the rain might not carry them off out of reach of the germinating seed .
Liebig was as much convinced of the soundness of his mineral theories as of the working power of his mineral manure .
But matters turned out differently from what he anticipated , and a heavy trial was in store for his great genius .
The English agriculturists saw no result from his artificial manure , ceased to buy it , and again had recourse to dung and other substances , and the factory in Liverpool ceased to work .
Nay , even Liebig was himself convinced by his unsuccessful experiments in agriculture in Giessen that his mineral manure could not make a ' barren soil more fertile .
One single ray of hope came to cheer him after years of failure .
It turned out that after a length of time those fields when no longer manured at length became more fertile .
But here again was a new riddle for him .
Meanwhile adversaries rose up , not merely to expose the uselessness of his manure , but also to show that new methods must be adopted in order to reach a practical end .
In the foreground stood an English agriculturist , Laws , who soon joined with an excellent chemist , Gilbert , and made on one of his estates experiments with all sorts of manures , which they manufactured and tried in many different ways .
It was shown that the more soluble a XXXVI substance is , the more effect it has ; that the yield of a field is often increased merely by the addition of bone-ash rendered soluble by sulphuric acid ( so-called superphosphate ) ; but that above all ammonia and ammoniacal salts , or , as they at last boldly stated it , combined nitrogen must be added to the fields in order to secure good crops ; and for a while the value of a manure was simply estimated by the amount of nitrogen it contained , wThereas Liebig 's theory had pointed out the atmosphere as a sufficient source of supply of ammonia .
Liebig 's adversaries were at this time banded together under the appellation of IMitrogenists ( Sticlestqffler ) .
They thought they had driven Liebig for ever from the field .
In spite of all Liebig remained true to his theory and would not yield .
He controverted the conclusions of Laws and Gilbert , but without success .
The President of the English Agricultural Society , Pusey , ranged himself distinctly on the side of Laws and Gilbert .
As the masses only judge by results , the sale of the book ' Chemie in ihrer Anwendung auf Agricultur und Physiologie , ' wirich at first could not be printed fast enough , became smaller and smaller , and after 1846 no new edition appeared .
In his latest writings on the subject of the mineral theory Liebig acknowledged that ammonia may with advantage be supplied to cereal and some other crops in the manure ; but contended at the same time that it was naturally included among " mineral substances " which he had originally referred to .
As , however , he had clearly explained that the ashes of a plant contain the mineral substances which ought to be added to the soil for the growth of such plant , the statement that ammonia is really a mineral compound , and ought to be included in his rule regarding mineral substances , really conceded in substance the argument of his opponents .
Since the year 1845 Liebig had paid more and more attention to the second part of the task which he had set himself in 1840 , the application of chemistry to animal physiology , and was in full work at this when King Maximilian II .
entered into a correspondence with him with the view of calling him to Munich .
Liebig had in the course of his distinguished career declined so many calls ( shortly before this one a brilliant call to Heidelberg ) , that they had little hope of persuading the eminent man to come to Munich , but they induced him nevertheless.* To his honour be it said he did not in the least render the task more difficult by great pretensions , merely stipulating that he should not be required to conduct so large a laboratory as he had done at Giessen , so that he might have more time for his own work .
His migration took place in the autumn of 1852 , when in his 49th year .
After some time he resumed at Munich his agricultural experiments , and at last found out why his mineral manure had not the desired effect , and why dung and even mere ammoniacal salts alone had so great an effect .
xxxvii In the year 1882 appeared his great work , in two volumes , 'Der chemische Process der Ernahrung der Yegetabilien und die Naturgesetze des Eeldbaues .
' This was the crowning work of Liebig 's agricultural labours , and his doctrine is now universally recognized ; and nb thoughtful agriculturist ever now supposes that he need but add superphosphate or nitrogen or guano and his fields will be for ever fertile .
It is now in agriculture but a question of the test appliances necessary to do justice to the theory of Liebig .
In Germany agriculturists have thankfully acknowledged this by the foundation of the Liebig Stiftung .
In close connexion with the subject of nutrition is Liebig 's work on flesh , which first gave us a more exact idea of the chemical composition of muscle , that is by far the greatest and most massive part of our bodily organs .
One result of this work is the Liebig 's Meat Extract , now well known to the whole world , of which so much has been said , and whose value has been as often over- as underrated .
Liebig spent the remainder of his life at Munich , where he died on the 10th of April , 1873 .
Auguste Arthur de la Eive , born at Geneva on the 9th of October , 1801 , was the son of Charles Gaspard de la Eive , Professor of Chemistry and Physics in the Academy of Geneva .
He studied first at the College and then at the Academy .
After working at science for a time he devoted himself to the study of law for two or three years .
He had inherited his father 's taste for science .
In the year 1822 he became deeply interested in Ampere 's investigations ; and when Ampere 's theory of the magnet had lost its best support , the young Auguste de la Eive came to his assistance .
He performed a series of delicate experiments , which Ampere came expressly to Presinge , the country place of the He la Eives , to witness .
The memoir " On the Influence of Terrestrial Magnetism upon a movable frame traversed by a Voltaic Current , " written by the young physicist on this occasion , contains not only the new results which he had obtained , but the learned and conclusive theory by which Ampere connects them with his own views , thenceforth completely triumphant .
This first research not only brought him into connexion with Ampere , but paved the way for his long and intimate friendship with Earaday .
In October 1823 he gave up his legal studies and succeeded M. Prevost as Professor of Physique Generale at the Academy .
On the occasion of his candidateship he published a thesis , " Dissertation sir la party de l'optique qui traite des combs dites caustiques .
" He had also to give some lessons at the Academy and a public conference on the theory of the pendulum .
On the death of M. A. Pictet in 1825 he resigned the chair of Physique Generale to succeed to that of Experimental Physics .
He often gave , in addition to his regular lessons , some special course on Electro-chemistry , or courses for a general audience , conjointly with M. Marcet , besides others for the industrial classes .
XXXV111 Auguste de la Hive contributed evidence in favour of the general conclusion that it is as impossible to create force as to create matter .
He also gave much attention to the cause of the Aurora Borealis , taking up the subject where Arago had left it ; and by means of an apparatus arranged by himself he was able to show the chief peculiarities of this phenomenon .
By the passage of electricity through a rarefied gas he caused the appearance of a luminous ring animated with a rotatory movement round this same pole .
This experiment is so remarkable that it will always be admired even by those physicists who , considering the aurora to have its source higher up than the terrestrial atmosphere , attribute to it a cosmical origin , which De la Bive would never admit .
Shortly before he was attacked by the malady which finally killed him , he wrote to Dumas , " Aidez-moi a defendre un theory fondee sir des faits incontestables ; elle etait deja celle de Franklin et dArago , avec moins de precision .
Les auteurs qui no songent qu'aux aurores bril-lantes oublient que presque tous les jours il y en a qui se passent sans eclat , dans les regions polaires ; je no connais pas un seul observateur place dans nos contrees septentrionales qui n'ait adopt les vues que j'ai exposees .
N'est-ce pas un presomption en leur faveur que d'avoir pour else tous ceux qui vivent au milieu des phenomenes qu'elles cherchent a expliquer ?
Faudrait-il les abandonner , quand on a seulement centre else ceux qui no les observent que de loin en loin , sous l'impression aveuglante d'une surprise qui no laisse pas toujours un entiere liberte d'appreciation ?
" In connexion with this subject we may mention that Auguste de la Bive and his friend M. de Marignac made experiments to show that ozone is modified oxygen , oxygen which has undergone a change by the action of electricity .
The investigations of Auguste de la Bive gave rise to a new and now flourishing branch of industry , Galvanic Gilding .
Hitherto the only effectual method known of gilding bronze was by the use of mercury ; but the process was most injurious to the workmen , as their hands came in contact with the dangerous metal , and their chests were exposed to the action of mercury vapour during the heating operation .
A prize had been offered by the French Academy to any one who could find a method which should remove the dangers from this trade ; but nobody had hitherto solved the problem .
The Academy has since been more fortunate .
The process of galvanic gilding has been developed ; and we must not forget that the learned and disinterested physicist Auguste de la Bive with his own hands gilded the first pieces by the electric process .
He it was who showed how to put an end to the distressing bodily and mental sufferings of these workmen .
For this discovery , published in 1840 , he received the Prix Monthyon of 3000 francs from the French Academy .
A. de la Five made numerous observations on the causes of the second reflections seen at sunset on Mont Blanc , and attributed them to xxxix the lust rays oi the sun falling on some layers of vapour collected in the upper regions of the atmosphere .
He showed that these vapours , themselves characteristic of fine weather , are formed by actual particles of dust \amp ; c whether mineral or organic , suspended in the air , where they float when dry falling to the ground when made heavy by moisture .
When abundant they cause a haziness of the atmosphere , when in small quantity the clearness of the atmosphere returns .
Even the insects fluttering about obey this law .
If swallows skim the ground at the approach of rain and reascend in fine weather , it is because in the first case the insects charged with damp cannot rise , and in the second case are relieved from this weight and mount high up in the air .
A. de la Five took a deep interest in political questions .
He was always liberal in his views , but at the same time determined to resist extreme democracy .
After the revolution of Geneva , at the period of the war of the Son-derbund , he resigned his professorship and gave up public life .
He was , however , on the occasion of the annexation of Savoy to France , appointed to watch over the interests of the Helvetic Confederation in London .
He was received with great distinction by the Queen , and on his return made one of the Assembly elected to revise the constitution of Geneva .
After this work was accomplished he retired entirely from public affairs .
In the spring of 18 t3 he was attacked with paralysis , but was , nevertheless , able to read in a feeble voice on June 5th his annual report to the Societc de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle .
In the November following he had a severe stroke of paralysis on his way to Cannes , but managed to reach Marseilles , where he died on the 27th .
His wife only survived him a few days .
De la Five 's principal work was the ' Traite d'Electricite Theorique et Appliquee , ' in three volumes , which appeared between the years 1854 and 1858 , in which he published his theory of the Aurora Borealis , first brought forward in 1854 , and illustrated by the experiment now well known to physicists of rotating the voltaic arc of light around the pole of a magnet , as any other ponderable conductor would rotate .
This work was published simultaneously in France and England .
During a period of fifty years he made many contributions to Science , which were published in the ' Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Universelle de Geneve ' or in the * Bibliotheque Universelle .
' From 1836 to 1845 he edited the literary and scientific parts of the ' Bibliotheque Universelle , ' which were then united .
He compiled alone , as supplementary to it , the ' Archives de l'Electricite , ' in five volumes , 1841 to 1845 , and conjointly with De Marignae and others the \#163 ; Archives des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles , ' in thirty-six volumes , 1846 to 1857 , and the ' Nouvelle Periode ' of the same Fecueil , in nine volumes , 1858 to 1860 .
He was also the author of numerous biographies xl and of papers on optics , critical and scientific notices .
He took an active part in the Society for the Advancement of the Arts , and was for several years General President of the Society .
lie twice presided , in 1845 and in 1865 , over the Helvetic Society of Natural Sciences .
With the Prix Month yon , received from the Academy des Sciences for electrochemical gilding , he founded a quinquennial prize to be given to the author of the discovery most useful to Genevese industry , and he augmented this sum by a legacy .
He was a foreign member of the French Academy and of the Eoyal Society .

