,885 .
] Note on an Experiment by Chladni .
April 16 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
' The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for hem .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; 1 f. " Note on an Experiment by Chladni .
" By Charles Tomlinson , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1885 .
[ Plate 1 .
] Lord Rayleigh , in a memoir " On the Circulation of Air in Kundt 's ; Tubes , " \amp ; c. , remarks("Proc .
Roy .
Soc. , " xxxvi , 10 , and " Phil. Trans. , " " 11884 , Part I , p. 1 ) that " it was discovered by Savart that very i ifine powder does not collect itself at the nodal lines , as does sand in the production of Chladni 's figures , but gathers itself into a cloud , which , after hovering for a time , settles itself over the places of i maximum vibration .
' ' In Savart 's memoir , " Sir les Vibrations Normales " ( " An. de Ch. 'et de Ph. " for 1827 , xxxvi , 187 ) , the author distinctly claims the above-named discovery .
At p. 190 he refers to the nodal lines of ; Chladni , but adds that by mixing with the sand a finer dust , such as lycopodium , " la poussiere fine se reunit pour tracer d'autres lignes circulaires que ce physicien n'a pas connues , " \amp ; c. Faraday , in his critical examination of Savart 's memoir ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1831 , p. 299 ) , apparently takes it for granted that Savart started with an original observation .
But this interesting discovery , which has been so fruitful in beautiful results , is really due to Chladni .
In his " Traite d'Acoustique , " Paris , 1809 , he remarks , p. 125 : " Si un pen de poussiere fine est melee au sable , elle pourra mieux servir pour fair voir aussi les centres des vibrations , c'est-a-dire , les endroits ou les parties vibrantes font les plus gran des excursions : les molecules les plus petites de la poussiere s'accumuleront sir ces endroits .
" Chladni is even more explicit in his " Never Beytrage sir Akustic , " ( 4to , Leipzig , 1817 ) .
At p. 7 he recommends " etwas Pulvis lyco-podii " as the fine dust to be mixed with the sand ; and at p. 69 , he remarks that when fine dust accumulates on the centresvof vibration , it is in heaps more or less round or long , \amp ; c. , according to the form assumed by the vibrating part .
VOL. XXXVIII .
T Mr. C. Tomlinson .
[ Apr. IB , When Wheatstone reproduced Chladni 's figures on square plates ( " Phil. Trans. , " 1833 , p. 593 ) , he did not notice the remarkable figures produced by mixing a fine powder with the sand .
This was the less necessary because Faraday 's memoir had been so recently pub-lished , and its conclusion was so satisfactory , namely , that when a plate is vibrating , currents are established in the air lying upon the surface of the plate , which pass from the nodal lines towards the centres of maximum vibration , and then proceeding outwards from the plate to a greater or less distance , return towards the nodal lines .
With the exception of a very few elementary specimens on a small scale , as given by Chladni and Faraday , I am not aware that this j class of figures has ever been adequately represented ; and yet these figures are not only interesting in themselves , but are capable of being t exhibited on a scale fitted for the lecture table .
For some of the figures we may make use of a brass plate , 12 inches square , fixed on a | pillar by means of a central screw .
The upper surface of the plate should be blackened by means of nitrate of silver or chloride of platinum solution , or some such contrivance , so as to leave a stain not !
liable to crack or peel off .
A thin layer of sand is to be dusted over the surface by means of a pepper-box , and then a small bag of thin linen or calico , containing the lycopodium powder , is to be shaken over the layer of sand .
On applying the bow to the edge of the plate , 3\#163 ; inches from the corner , the note produced in my plate is Efc| in the fourth space .
This produces fig. 1 with well-defined nodal lines and heaps of lycopodium powder on the twelve centres of vibration .
Under the continued action of the bow each heap expands , swells up , and contracts with great activity .
If while this figure is at rest the bow be applied to the centre of the edge , so as to produce the higher note Bb above the lines in the treble clef , fig. 2 is produced , a figure of great beauty , from the symmetrical arrangement of its parts and the delicate variations of shading , which confer upon it an artistic character ; Iron filings were sifted over the plate , and on sounding the note that leads to the formation of fig. 1 , the finest particles of iron were transferred to the centres of vibration , while the coarser remained at the nodes .
Lycopodium alone was dusted over the plate , when the powder became divided into two portions , one remaining on the nodal lines , now very much broader than those formed by sand , while a second portion assumed active functions on the vibrating centres .
Lord Justice Fry , F.R.S. , to whom I showed this experiment , suggested that the winnowing process which separated the finer from the coarser particles in the former experiments might also apply here .
He collected specimens from the nodes and from the vibrating centres , but 3.885- ] Note on an Experiment by .
on examination found that " the spores from both are of the same size , all being , I believe , macrospores .
" I have since examined a number of commercial specimens of lycopodium , but have not met iwith any containing microspores .
The powder of sublimed sulphur was also dusted over the plate , when on sounding the note E , fig. 1 was beautifully produced , the modal lines being well defined , and not much coarser than with sand ; but the flowers on the vibrating centres were much more diffused , J shading off into cloudiness much more than with lycopodium .
The | sulphur also was not so active .
Eigs .
3 and 4 are attempts to represent the action of sulphur alone .
After a layer of iron filings had been sifted on the plate , a layer of sand was added , when the finer particles of iron did not escape to the vibrating centres , they being apparently imprisoned by the sand .
Flowers of sulphur being dusted on the plate , and then lycopodium , a certain amount of winnowing goes on under the influence of vibration , the sulphur for the most part going to the nodes , and the lycopodium to the centres ( fig. 5 ) .
When either of these or a similar light powder is used alone , the slight adhesion of the powder to the plate on and about the nodal lines is sufficient to retain it there , while the looser upper particles are swept upon the centres .
The cyclonic air currents are well shown by flowers of sulphur , when the plate is thrown into its greatest amplitude of vibration by sounding either of the two lowest notes , D in the bass clef , and Ab below the lines of the treble clef , the figures being the well known crosses which terminate , one in the centre of the edges , and the other at the angles of the plate .
In either case there are but four vibrating centres , and the powder occupies a considerable space on each , and is whirled round in numerous eddies , which can be distinctly followed by the eye , showing how the separate heaps of lycopodium are formed when this powder is used instead of sulphur , which does not collect in heaps , but in curved parallel ripples , convex towards the fixed centre of the plate .
The brass plate thus fixed yields but a limited number of figures .
By using plates of various material and form , such as bell metal bronze , white metal , glass , \amp ; c. , in squares , parallelograms , ovals , \amp ; c. , fixed at any point by means of Chladni 's clamp , an endless variety of forms may be obtained .
In the following figures the small white circle shows where the plate was clamped .
The presence of flowers of sulphur gives a softened effect to the figure , and converts the sharp angles formed by sand alone into graceful curves .
Fig. 6 shows the effect of sulphur and lycopodium combined ; fig. 7 of sand and lycopodium , where the finer powder collects in heaps .
In the more complicated figures which follow it is remarkable to note the precision with which the lycopodium becomes sepa[Apr .
16 , Note on an Experiment Chladni .
rated from the sand , and performs its evolutions within the numerous centres of vibration into which the plate breaks up .
With respect to the double circles ( figs. 18 and 19 ) , and the double ellipse ( fig. 16 ) , Chladni remarks , that these are the most difficult of all the figures to produce .
With the two powders , sand and lycopodium , the difficulty ceases , the lighter powder forming the outer and the sand the inner ring .
The figures represented have been faithfully copied from the plates ; such distortions as those represented in fig. 10 are due to irregularities in the structure of the plate .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATE .
No. of Figure .
Material of the plate .
Dimensions .
Materials employed .
1 .
2 .
Brass .
12 in .
x 12 in .
Sand and lycopodium .
3 .
99 99 99 Sulphur .
99 4 .
5 .
99 Sulphur and lycopodium .
6 .
Bronze .
8 in .
x 8 in .
99 99 7 .
Brass .
/ Major axis , 7 in .
1 \ Minor axis , 5 in .
/ Sand and lycopodium .
8 .
99 99 Sand and sulphur .
9 .
White metal .
7 in .
x 7 in .
Sand and lycopodium .
10 .
Bell metal .
99 99 99 11 .
Brass .
99 99 99 12 .
99 8 in .
x 8 in .
99 99 13- 99 7 in .
external diameter .
99 99 14 .
99 99 99 15 .
99 99 \ 99 99 16 .
99 / Major axis , 7 in .
1 \ Minor axis , 5 in .
J 99 99 17 .
99 8 in .
x 4i in .
99 99 18 .
Glass .
8 in .
diameter .
99 99 19 .
99 9 in .
diameter .
99 99 20 .
99 99 99 99 21 .
Bell metal .
7 in .
x 7 in .
99 99 Note.\#151 ; When the plate is clamped near the edge , the bow should be applied as near to the clamp as may be convenient .
If far removed therefrom , the amplitude of the vibrations is too great to produce a good figure , and glass plates are liable to be broken .
Proc. Rqx-Soc .
Vol.38.PU West , Newman SbCo'litk

