]\gt ; [ 449 ] XII .
On STOKES'S Current Funetion .
R. A. SAMPSON , B.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor GREENHILL , F.R. Received November 24 , \mdash ; Read December 11 , 1890 .
IN MAXWELL'S 'Electricity and Magnetism ' view is put forward , in accordance with which we may regard any irrotational motion in a perfect liquid , for which the velocity potential is a solid zonal harmonic , as due to the.uxtaposition at the origin , and upon the axis of symmetry , of sinks and sources .
But , in a liquid , any irrotational motion which is symmetrical with respect to an axis gives a velocity potential which may be expressed as a sum of a series of solid zonal harmonics , their common axis being the axis of , and their origin arbitrary , provided it is excluded from the region to which the expressions apply .
The position of the origin upon the axis is arbitrary , since , by a transference formula , we may pass from one origin to another .
Let us now consider the system formed by a line source and a line sink , of equal strengths , extending along the axis from an arbitrary origin to infinity in opposite directions .
Such a system I shall call an extended doublet , of strength , where is the strength per unit length of that part which lies on the positive side of the origin .
By the superposition of two extended doublets equal but opposite strengths we can produce a sink or a source upon the axis .
Hence , in a liquid , any irrotational motion which is symmetrical with respect to an axis produced by superposition of extended doublets , whose origins depart but little from an arbitrary point on the axis of symmetry .
Now , for an extended doublet of strengh , STOKES'S Current Function , for * Vol. 1 , chapter any point distant from the origin , .
For let be the distance of the of the doublet from origin of coordinates , and let be the value of Current Function for any point .
Then if S be the Current Function for a source of stren at the point of the axis we get S0 , Therefore @2 @ , \mdash ; 2mS the of integration zero .
But @ , and clearly , Hence Therefore and ( 1 ) .
R. A. SAMPSON ON STOKES'S CURRENT FUNCTION .
disregarding a constant .
Thus , if we may , by properly choosing the function , write .
( 2 ) , where is the current function for any irtotational motion in a liquid , symmetrical about the axis of Again , if and the expression consequently also ( 2 ) satisfies the differential equation . . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , or , as I shall write it , When the motion is rotational , ( 3 ) no longer holds .
Tn fact , as is well known , have under all circumstances where is the resultant spin at the point .
Thus , if there is spin in the fluid , ( 3 ) is replaced by . . . . . . . .

