COLLEMBOLA.\#151 ; J. LUBBOCK .
Collembola.\#151 ; By Sir John , F.B.S. The Collembola collected in Kerguelen Island comprised three forms .
One was a species of Isotoma , apparently , hut the examples were not in a condition to be determinable with certainty .
One was a Smynthurus .
In this genus the forms of the feet and of the saltatory apparatus afford good specific characters .
There being only one specimen in the collection , this was sent to a professional mounter of microscopic preparations .
Unfortunately it was put up with the legs bent under the body so much as to prevent the feet being examined ; and in attempting to rearrange the specimen so as to show them , he destroyed it .
Under any circumstances , however , it would have been unsatisfactory to describe a new species of Smynthurus from a single specimen , and without knowing the true colour .
The only example was obtained under a stone near a lake not far from the chief English Observatory , in January .
The third species constitutes a new genus , which I have dedicated to M. Tullberg , who has done so much to extend our knowledge of the group to which it belongs .
Lipiubid^ : .
Tullbergia .
Lubbock , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 4th ser. , 1876 , xviii .
324 .
Corpus elongatum .
Antennae non clavatae , 4-articulatae .
Organa post-anten-nalia transversa .
Unguiculi inferiores nulli .
Spinae anales magni .
The IApiuridce differ from all other Collembola , except the in the absence of the remarkable saltatory organ which is so characteristic of the Erom the Anouridce they are at once distinguishable by the mandibulate mouth .
The present genus is characterised by the cylindrical antennae , the uni-ungui-culate feet , and the large anal spines .
Tullbergia antarctica .
( Plate XIII .
, fig. 1 , a\#151 ; c. ) Lubbock , loc. cit. White ( colourless in spirits ) .
Skin granular , and with scattered hairs .
Antennae 4-articulate , non-clavate .
Ocelli none , or not apparent .
Post-antennal organ transverse , placed directly behind the antennae ; it has numerous oval tubercles .
Eeet with only one claw , and no tenent hairs .
Anal spines large and strong ; their apex oblique and outwardly prolonged into a somewhat slender triangular point , not acuminate .
Length 3 mm. Hab.\#151 ; Common in wet moss on hillsides and low ground in the neighbourhood of Observatory Bay , Boyal Sound .
Plate XIII .
, fig. 1 , T. antarctica , seen from above ( magnified ) : a , antenna ; b , foot ; c , anal spines . ! .
of Venus ExpecL .
Kergtjei.en Island .
Zoology PL XIIL rerby 11th .
IVlinLom Bro ?
imp \#166 ;

