597 anisamic acids has likewise furnished new bodies , with the study of which I am at present engaged .
Action of Nitrous Acid on Phenylamine and Nitrophenylamine .
Phenylamine , when submitted to the modified nitrous acid-process , is transformed into a fusible body containing C24 HIll N , which is insoluble in water and easily soluble in alcohol .
This compound , which possesses feebly basic characters , is formed according to the equation C24 Hi , N2+ NO3 = 3HO + C24 I , N , .
k_ J. __ 2 equivs. of New comPhenylamine .
pound .
Nitrophenylamine ( the alpha-variety which is formed by the action of reducing agents upon dinitrobenzol ) , similarly treated , furnishes a compound crystallizing in beautifully red needles C24 H9 N5 08 the formation of which is represented by the equation C2 Hl , Nl 08 + NO , ,= 3HO + C2 , , H , N6 08 , 2 equivs. of NitroNew comphenylamine .
pound .
Treated with concentrated hydrochloric acid , the new compound reproduces nitrophenylamine .
The action of chlorine and bromine upon it gives rise to the formation of new crystallized derivatives .
VI .
" On the Influence of the Ocean on the Plumb-line in India .
" By the Rev. J. H. PRATT , Archdeacon of Calcutta .
Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received December 7 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is a sequel to two former communications made to the Royal Society by the author .
In the first of these ( communicated in 1855 ) , the deflection of the plumb-line caused by the mountainmass north of Hindostan is calculated ; and in the second ( communicated in 1858 ) , the effect of a small excess or defect of density pre2 s 598 vailing through extensive parts of the earth 's mass , is found , with a view to determine whether any compensating cause can possibly exist below to counteract the large amount of deflection caused by the superficial mass lying above the sea-level .
A survey of the causes of disturbance of the plumb-line cannot be complete without taking into consideration the influence of the ocean .
To approximate to this is the object of the present paper .
The author first adverts to the peculiar geographical position of Hindostan .
The highest mountain-ground in the world lies to the north of it ; and an unbroken expanse of ocean extends from its shores down to the neighbourhood of the South Pole .
The excess of matter presented by the first causes a deflection of the plumbline towards the north , decreasing in amount as we travel southwards .
The deficiency of matter arising from the second causes a deflection of the plumb-line also towards the north , but decreasing in amount as we travel northwards .
The consequence is , that while these two causes conspire to increase the deflection at the different stations , the action of the second tends to reduce in amount the errors which the mountain-attraction causes in the amplitudes .
But the attraction of the mountains northwards , and the deficiency of attraction of the ocean southwards-which last is , in fact , equivalent to a repulsive force northwards-combine to produce another effect upon the measures of the survey besides the deflection of the plumb-line .
They have a sensible influence in changing the sealevel , so as to make the level at Karachi , near the mouth of the Indus-to which a great longitudinal chain of triangles is brought down from Kalianpur , in the centre of India-many feet higher than the level at Punnae near Cape Comorin , the south extremity of the great arc .
In other words , the level at Karachi is many feet higher than it would be at that place , if , while the level at Punnae remained unchanged , the disturbing attractions were removed .
The author then proceeds with the details of the calculation , which is conducted by the method of his former papers .
In our ignorance of the form of the bed of the ocean , especially in a part of the world where but few soundings have been taken , it is of course necessary to make some assumption respecting the depth of the ocean and the form of its bed .
The author assumes a law as to the variation of depth , which , while it is probably a pretty fair representation of 599 the actual state of things on the average , permits of calculation without too much labour .
The expression of this law involves three arbitrary constants , representing depths at particular places , of which the various deflections are linear functions .
He next calculates numerically the coefficients of the arbitrary constants in the expressions for the various deflections , and then proceeds , guided by the probabilities of the case , to make further assumptions as to the ratios of two of these constants to the third ; and lastly , as to the numerical value of the remaining constant .
The general character of the assumptions is , that at a point 36 ?
south of Cape Comorin , and in the meridian of the measured arc , the depth is assumed to be three miles , and the bottom is supposed to slope down towards this point according to a certain law .
The following are the deflections obtained at the various stations .
The fifth station ( called Near-Goa ) is a point half-way between Punnae and Karachi : At Kaliana ... .
deflection North 6 " 18 deflection East 0"'09 , , Kalianpur .
, , 9 00 , , 0 48 , , Damargida. .
, , 10 44 , , 1 80 , , Punnee ... .
, , 19 71 , , 2 19 , , Near-Goa. .
, , 13 83 , , 2 79 , , Karachi. .
, , 9 99 , , West 1 *26 The author then proceeds to correct the ellipticity , as deduced from the Indian arc , for the defect of ocean as well as the excess of mountain attraction , and obtainsCorrected ellipticity= 0003614--2767 which is nearer the mean ellipticity than was the value obtained by correcting for mountain-attraction alone .
He then proceeds to calculate the rise of the sea-level at Karachi above that at Cape Comorin , and obtainsFrom the defect of ocean attraction ... ... 448*25 feet .
From the excess of mountain attraction. .
66*32 , , Total ... ... ... 514'57 .

