XI .
" On the Causes and Phenomena of the Repulsion of Water from the Feathers of Water-Fowl and the Leaves of Plants .
" By GEORGE BUIST , D.C.L. of Bombay , F.R.S. Received April 3 , 1857 .
Happening to reside in Bombay , in the neighbourhood of a number of small tanks or ponds abounding with the Lotus or sacred bean of India , and with four different varieties of Water Lily , I was struck with the different appearances presented by these when immersed in water , or when water was sprinkled on them .
The leaves of the lily , like those of the Lotus , floated with considerable buoyancy on the surface , but never , like the Lotus , rose above it , on a tall independent stem .
The lily leaf is full of holes about the size of a pin 's head , and serrated at the edges .
Through these , when the leaf is pressed down , the water perforates freely .
The upper surface of the leaf is smooth and shining , and water runs off it without wetting it , as it does off a piece of glass or greased surface .
When placed under the water at an angle of about 45 ?
, the leaf of the lily seems to change colour ; the dark purple leaf of the red lily appears of a bright rich pink , the dark green or bluish-green of the white , pink , and blue lilies seem to become of a bright emeraldgreen ; the intensity of these hues varying with the angle at which the immersed leaf is seen .
When the Lotus leaf is placed under water it reflects light like a mirror , so that the image of any object , if presented to it at a proper angle , is seen by the spectator as distinctly as if the surface were one of polished metal .
When water is thrown on the surface of a floating leaf , it flows off like a pool of quicksilver , reflecting light from the whole of its lower surface ; and this holds good on all occasions .
The repellent property of the leaf is on the upper side only , for the lower side is always wet , being only destroyed by severe rubbing .
These peculiarities seem long to have been familiar to the natives , and have given rise to the Mahratta lines in reference to the virtuous man , which may be thus translated : " He is not enslaved by any lust whatever ; By the stain of passion he is not soiled , As in the water , yet unwet by the water , Is the Lotus leaf .
" On examining carefully into the cause of this , I found the Lotus leaf covered with short microscopic papillae , which entangle the air and establish an air-plate over the whole surface , with which in reality the water never comes in contact at all .
Another peculiarity connected , but not necessarily so , so far as I could discover , with this , was the singular respiratory pores of the Lotus .
The leaves of the Lotus , when full-sized , are from a foot to 16 inches in diameter ; on cutting off a leaf 6 inches broad , the stalk of which was less than the third of an inch in diameter , I was able to collect 33 cubic inches of air in an hour , when the vital energies of the plant must have been injured by its mutilation ; at this rate a tank covered with Lotus leaves would produce daily an atmosphere 4 feet in depth throughout its whole surface .
When the leaf is pushed slightly under water , a constant succession of air-bubbles seem to arise from it , at the rate of two or three a minute at each spiracle .
The air-bubble diffuses itself as it is extricated , presenting a very broad base to the leaf and blunt low-crowned apex , and seems detached with difficulty .
The air-plate all over the surface must thus become continually renewed and the arrangement kept perfect .
Sensible respiration is not at all essential to the repelling power of leaves ; the most beautifill manifestation of it I have met with is in the Pestia , a little floating water-plant abounding in our shallow tanks , and resembling common endive .
When pushed under the surface , it looks like a little mass of burning silver .
The same appearance is presented on cabbages , young clover , and a vast variety of other leaves ; it is the cause of the bright pearl-lustre of dew .
The same phenomenon is manifested on the wings and backs of divers when they dash into the water .
In this case it has been ascribed , most erroneously as I believe , to the presence of grease or oil in the feathers , and is , I have no doubt , due to the presence of an air-plate repelling the water , so that it never comes in contact with the feathers at all .
The trimming process , so carefully performed by Water Fowl , is probably an application of oil or grease , with the object of separating or dressing the little fibres of the feathers so as to produce an arrangement fitted to entangle the air .
The reflexion of light from the lower surface of the water is the proof of want of contact .
A piece of polished marble or of glass , a waxed , oiled or greased surface , readily throws off the water without remaining wetted ; but no reflexion is in this case observable .
Might not the manufacturers of waterproof cloth or clothes take a hint on this point from the economy of nature ?
Could they manage to produce a surface such as would entangle and retain a film of air , no india-rubber varnish or other water-tight material would be required , while the texture would permit the free transmission of respiration or moisture from the body , which Mackintosh 's and other similar contrivances obstruct .

