[ 73 ] III .
Additional Observations on the Development of Apteryx .
By T. Jeffery Parker , B.Sc. , F. R.S. , Professor of Biology in the University of Otago , Dunedin , New Zealand .
Received December 15 , 1891 , \#151 ; Read January 21 , 1892 .
[ Plates 7 , 8 .
] Contents .
Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
I. External Form ... ... . .
" .
II .
The Skull ... ... ... ... ... ... . . .
III .
The Sternum ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... IV .
The Shoulder-girdle ... ... .
V. The Fore-limb ... ... ... ... ... ... . . . .
VI .
The Brain ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
VII .
Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
List of Works referred to ... ... ... ... Description of Plates ... ... ... ... ... .
Page Since communicating my previous observations on this subject to the Royal Society ( 1 ) , # I have received from the collector ( R. Henry ) to whom I owe most of my material , three embryos of Apteryx australis , which fill important gaps in the series of developmental stages formerly studied , and serve to correct one or two erroneous conclusions to which I was led by having , in so many cases , only a single specimen of each stage .
The youngest of the three embryos is as nearly as possible intermediate in age between Stages E and F of my former paper : I shall speak of it as Stage E ' .
The second is slightly more advanced than Stage F , and will be called F ' .
The third is considerably more advanced than Stage G , but far less advanced than H : it will be spoken of as G ' .
Within the last few months , Baldwin Spencer has published a pamphlet ( 2 ) which should be of great use to any one working out the general embryology of a Bird .
In describing the earlier stages of Apteryx I found great inconvenience ( 1 , p. 28 , note ) in having no definite standard of reference .
In the ordinary works on ?
The number in brackets re-fer to the List of Works Referred to at the end of the paper ( p. 81 ) .
MDOCCXCII.---B .
L 17.6.92 .
74 PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
embryology there are no detailed descriptions of the external form of the Chick at the various stages of its development , and the particular day at which certain structures appear is subject to considerable individual variation .
Spencer has now done for the Chick , the most convenient type for Avian embryology , what Balfour did for the Elasmobranchs\#151 ; described and figured a typical series of embryos , distinguishing each stage by a letter .
I think it will be useful if I indicate by a Table the stages in Spencer 's paper which correspond most nearly with those of Apteryx as described by me .
Stages of Apteryx .
Stages of Chick ( Spencer ) .
A ... ... ... ... ... ..Between P and Q. B ... ... ... ... ... ..Slightly older than Q. C ... ... ... ... ... ..Between Q and ft. D ... . .
Slightly younger than S. ^ \ ... ... ... ..Between S and T. E'J F ... ... ... ... ... ..Slightly younger than T. F ' ... ... ... ... ... .Almost the same as T , G ... ... ... ... ... ..Somewhat older than T. G ' ... ... ... ... ... .Almost the same as U. H ... ... ... ... ... ..Almost the same as W. I. External Form .
Stage E ' ( Plate 7 , fig. l ) .
This embryo closely resembles Stage F ( 1 , Plate 3 , fig. 8 ) , but , as the proportions of the beak and the characters of the fore-limb approach more nearly to those of the damaged embryo which constituted Stage E ( 1 , Plate 8 , fig. 6 ) , I have thought it advisable to figure it as a whole .
The total length from tip of beak to end of tail is about 62 mm. , i.e. , a little longer than Stage F , which belonged to the smaller species , A. oweni .
Although the beak is proportionally very* little longer than that of Stage E , the characteristic form of the tip is attained .
The fore-limb is about intermediate in form between those of E and F ; all three digits are well marked , but the second considerably exceeds the first and third , which are as nearly as possible of equal size .
The hind-limb approaches more nearly to that of F , but the digits are shorter .
The first faint indication of the dorsal pteryla is visible .
Stage F ' ( Plate 7 , fig. 2 ) .
The resemblance to Stage F ( 1 , Plate 3 , fig. 8 ) is very close , the chief differences PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
75 being the increased length of the beak and the greater distinctness of the feather-tracts .
The total length , from tip of beak to end of tail , is 70 mm. The fore-limb ( fig. 2 ) differs from that of F ( 1 , Plate 3 , fig. 9 ) , in the fact that the pollex is particularly well marked , having the form of a large , bluntly-pointed projection ( l ) on the pre-axial side of the manus .
The fore-limb at this stage is a thoroughly typical wing , closely resembling that of an embryo carinate bird of Spencer 's Stage T. Stage G ' .
This is the most important of the additional stages , since it serves to fill up the very considerable gap between Stages G and H of my former paper .
The total length , from tip of beak to uropygium , is 130 mm. ; the head is nearly as convex as in Stage G ( 1 , Plate 3 , fig. 10 ) , but otherwise the form approaches more nearly to that of H. The feathers on the dorsal pteryla , which now reaches well on to the top of the head , have attained a length of 7 mm. , and are nearly black .
Those on the femoral tract are a little shorter , and are beginning to turn black ; the rest are still colourless , and those on the front and sides of the head are mere papillae .
The vibrissse , or hair-like feathers at the base of the beak , are already distinguished from the others in the same region by their greater length .
Reference to fig. 8 ( Plate 3 ) of my former paper shows that these characteristic structures are distinctly visible in Stage F. The scales on the feet are marked out , but are still colourless and quite soft .
II .
The Skull .
Stages E ' and F ' ( Plate 8 , figs. 9-11 ) .
The head of the former of these stages ( E ' ) was , after removal of the brain , cut into a complete series of horizontal sections , taken as nearly as possible parallel with the floor of the pituitary fossa .
That of F ' was first dissected and then sectioned , also horizontally .
The following are the most important additional points made out :\#151 ; The internal auditory meatus and the floccular fossa are continuous , forming an elongated vacuity in the mesial wall of the auditory capsule .
The Vllth and Ylllth nerves pass through the dura matter , filling the anterior end of the vacuity , while the rest of it is simply plugged with a thickened mass of dura , there being at this stage no indication of the flocculus .
The structure of the dorsum sellse and of the pituitary floor is well shown , several points becoming quite clear which could only be imperfectly ascertained either by dissection or by transverse and sagittal sections .
Sections taken through the ridge of the dorsum sellse ( fig. 9 ) show it to be a continuous transverse wall of cartilage .
The median portion , however , shows special characters ; it ( Pr .
Ch.)is convex cephalad and concave caudad , and is separated from the lateral regions by lines of close-set cells .
Passing ventrad ( fig. 10 ) the cartilage disappears in the middle line , the central portion of the lower part of the dorsum sellae being formed merely by the fibrous tissue of the posterior basi-cranial fontanelle .
Thus the extreme dorso-median portion of the dorsum sellae is formed by a transverse bridge of cartilage , not perfectly continuous with the cartilage of the parachordal regions on either side .
This transverse bridge is the prochordal cartilage ; in the present instance it is a less distinct structure than it appears to be in either sagittal or transverse sections ( l , Plate 10 , figs. 108 , 112 , 114 ) , having evidently fused posteriorly with the lateral or parachordal regions of the dorsum sellae .
In all previous sections the end of the notochord was found to be curved gently upwards , ending in the fibrous tissue of the dorsum sellae , just below the prochordal cartilage ( 1 , Plate 10 , figs. 10L and 111 ; Plate 14 , figs. 173 and 174 ) .
In the present instance it turns forward and slightly to the left ( fig. 10 , projecting between the internal carotids in the fibrous tissue of the pituitary floor .
The three basi-cranial fontanelles are well shown in a single section ( fig. 11 ) through the floor of the pituitary fossa .
The posterior ( p.bcr.fo .
) is a wide space containing the notochord ; the anterior ( a.bcr.fo .
) is filled with small , close-set cells , and contains the pituitary pedicle ( Pty.ped .
) ; the middle is filled with smallcelled tissue , and contains a narrow canal , in which neither cells nor coagulum can be seen .
Traced ventrad , this canal simply merges into the perichondrium ; traced * dorsad , it breaks up into several canals containing small , deeply-stained cells , which appear to be leucocytes .
The middle portions of the two commissures ( x and separating the three fontanelles , are imperfectly chondrified , and a similar non-cartilaginous area ( w ) extends on each side across the cartilage , separating the posterior basi-cranial fontanelle from the carotid foramen .
Taking all these facts into consideration , it appears to me that my former explanation of the basi-cranial fontanelles ( 1 , p. 61 ) , is erroneous ; that the line of junction between the trabeculae and parachordals is represented by the area w , the longitudinal bands between the fontanelles indicating the plane of fusion of the trabeculae with one another .
Moreover , the cartilage immediately cephalad of iv can be traced ventrad into the ridges ( 1 , p. 64 , Plate 11 , fig. 126 , r ) , which form the lateral boundaries of the posterior basi-cranial fontanelle , whence it would appear that the ridges in question represent the cornua trabeculae .
The resemblance to the early stages of the Crocodile 's skull is thus very close ( 3 , Plate 63 , fig. 4 ) .
Under these circumstances the only explanation 1 can offer of the middle basicranial fontanelle is that it is an inter-trabecular fissure , due to the imperfect fusion of the trabeculae , and finally obliterated by their complete concrescence .
The structure of the presphenoid region is also well seen in these sections .
It is ' formed ( fig. 10 ) of perfectly distinct paired plates of cartilage , the dorsal portions of which ( orbito-sphenoid , Orb .
Sph .
) are divergent , while their ventral portions ( prePROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
sphenoid , Pr .
Sph ) , are parallel and separated from one another by dense fibrous tissue .
At this stage , therefore , the presphenoid consists , as in Stage D ( 1 , Plate 9 , fig. 90 ) of paired laminae , which pass insensibly in front into the unpaired mesethmoid .
A re-examination of the sections of Stage G seems to show that the median fibrous portion of the presphenoid is chondrified from below upwards , the chondrification extending above the ventral edges of the orbito-sphenoids so as to give the peculiar relations shown in 1 , Plate 11 , fig. 135 .
This may possibly indicate the presence of an inter-trabecula , although if such an element occurs at all it is certainly not a distinct chondrite in any of my stages .
( Compare 3 , Plate 64 , fig. 2 , with 1 , Plate 9 , fig. 90 , and Plate 11 , figs. 133 and 135 ) .
Stage G ' ( Plate 7 , figs. 3-8 ) .
The skull of this embryo was prepared by dissection ; it serves to correct various imperfections in my description of Stage G , in which the material at hand was insufficient .
The chondrocranium has nearly attained its final form ; the shape of the auditory capsules , alisphenoids , and ethmoidal region is practically the same as in Stages H-K ; there is , however , no indication of the cartilage bones , so that the specimen is considerably less advanced than H. The basi-temporals have not yet made their appearance , and the present stage is , therefore , valuable as showing the final form of the base of the skull before it has been modified by the underlying membrane bones .
This is well seen by comparing figs. 4 , 6 , and 7 with Plate 9 , figs. 76 and 77 , and Plate 12 , fig. 148 , ot ' my former paper .
The anterior tympanic recess ( figs. 4 and 6 , a.tymp.r .
) is a deep pit floored only by membrane , and bounded in front by the basi-pterygoid process ( .
) , the apparent length of which is much greater than in later stages .
This is , of course , due to the fact that , on the appearance of the basi-temporal , its pretemporal wing extends laterad forming a floor to the anterior tympanic recess , and continuous in front with the basi-pterygoid process .
There is a large posterior basi-cranial fontanelle ( .
) filled with connective tissue and appearing as an actual aperture when the latter is removed .
The anterior basi-cranial fontanelle ( a.bcr.fo .
) , and the carotid canals passing inw'ards from the corresponding foramina ( Int.car.)are clearly seen through the rostrum ( Roast .
) when the skull is examined by transmitted light .
The middle fontanelle appears to have closed .
The presphenoidal region can be made out with great clearness .
Posteriorly the presphenoid ( fig. 3 , Pr .
Sph .
) is separated from the orbito-sphenoid ( Orb .
Sph .
) by narrow areas of connective tissue ( x ) as in Stage G ( 1 , Plate 11 , fig. 135 ) ; anteriorly they are continuous .
The orbito-sphenoid ( is directed outwards and slightly backwards forming the dorsal boundary of the optic foramen ( figs. 3 , 6 , 7 , and 8 , Nv .
II .
) , and having its outer edges overlapped by the alisphenoid .
Against the mesial end of its anterior border abuts the orbitosphenoid process of the frontal ( fig. 3 Fr. ( o.sph.pr .
) ) which is already well formed ; the remainder of the anterior border is connected with the inner face of the frontal by a strong sheet of fibrous tissue .
The membrane bones ( figs. 3 , 4 , and 5 ) are considerably more advanced than in Stage G , but there is still no trace of parietals , and , as already remarked , the basi-temporals have not appeared .
The rostrum ( fig. 8 , Roast .
) , has sent off a short process from its posterior end which passes dorsad and applies itself to the cartilaginous basi-sphenoidal region .
III .
The Sternum .
The only matter worthy of notice is that in Stage G ' , there is a well-marked bifid posterior median process : in Stage G ( 1 , Plate 16 , fig. 218 ) this process had not made its appearance .
# IV .
The Shoulder-Girdle .
In my former paper the shoulder-girdle is shown as a solid mass of cartilage in Stages E-G , and in one specimen of H : in the other specimen of H the coracoid region is fenestrated , and presents a distinct procoracoid , while from Stage I onwards there is progressive degeneration of the procoracoid .
Reference to the plates will show that all the specimens showing a solid coracoid region belong to ( 1 , Plate 17 , figs. 233 , 234 , 235 , and 237 ) , while those in which a procoracoid is present are all either A. australis or A.-bulleri .
The specimens upon which the present paper is founded are all examples of A. australis , and they bring to light the remarkable fact that there are striking specific differences in the development of the shoulder-girdle .
Even in F ' , which , as already remarked , is only slightly more advanced than F of the former paper , there is a distinct coracoid fenestra , and the procoracoid is not formed of hyaline cartilage .
This point is still clearer in G ' ( Plate 8 , fig. 12 ) , in which , except for the absence of ossification , the shoulder-girdle has the characters which my former observations indicated as being characteristic of the ripe embryo .
A re-examination of my sections of the embryo of A. australis , belonging to Stage G , shows the same thing : there is a distinct procoracoid , very narrow , and not formed of typical hyaline cartilage .
I formerly overlooked this , my observations on this stage being founded mainly on the dissected specimen of A. oweni , in which a renewed examination shows no trace of a coracoid fenestra .
In E ' this coracoid is distinctly notched on its pre-axial border , the notch being filled with indifferent tissue , but I can detect no distinct procoracoid .
In this connection I may point out that in both the adult shoulder-girdles of A. oweni figured ( 1 , Plate 16 , figs 231 and 232 ) , the coracoid has an even pre-axial border , PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER OK THE DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
there being no trace of the coracoid fenestra beyond a thin area in the bone indicated by shading , whereas in the other species , except one specimen of ( fig. 230 ) , there is either a distinct coracoid fenestra or a notch representing it .
It would require an examination of numerous specimens of all species and of various ages to settle this point completely , but the data at our disposal certainly seem to point to the remarkable circumstance that in one species of Apteryx [ A. the coracoid is solid , presenting no coracoid fenestra and therefore no procoracoid , while in another species ( A. australis)the procoracoid is present at a comparatively early age , and is frequently retained in the form of a ligament , in the adult .
In other wTords , the differences between the shoulder-girdle in two species of Apteryx are of precisely the same nature as those distinguishing the from the other Ratitce .
V. The Fore-Limb .
The specimens now under discussion serve to confirm the statements made in the previous paper ( l , Plates 17 and 18 ) as to the extreme variability of the wing in , and are further interesting as showing the occasional presence of an intermedium in the carpus\#151 ; an element not hitherto observed in this genus , but shown to exist in Dendroeca by Morse ( 4 ) and in Opisthocomus by my Father ( 5 ) .
In E ' ( Plate 8 , fig. 13 ) the proximal row of the carpus contains two chondrites , a rounded ulnare ( ul .
) , and a large irregular element applied to the distal surface of the radius , and extending post-axiad into the space between the two bones of the fore-arm .
In the left wing a longitudinal area of close-set cells divides it into a pre-axial portion ( ra .
) , the radiale , and a post-axial moiety ( which may be taken to represent the intermedium .
In the right wing this cartilage is undivided .
There are two distalia ( o list.2 , dist , 3 ) apparently representing the second and third of the series , and both first and third metacarpals ( .
1 , Mtcp .
3 ) are well developed .
In F ' ( fig. 14 ) the number of carpals is the same .
The radiale ( ra , ) has the trigonal form so common in later stages , the intermedium ( inti ) is small and imperfectly chondrified , and the ulnare ( ul .
) is large and rounded .
There is a large second distale ( dist. 2 ) applied to the proximal end of the second metacarpal ( Mtcp .
2 ) , and a very small and imperfectly chondrified third distale ( dist. 3 ) closely applied to the ulnare .
In the right wing of the same specimen the carpals are very imperfectly differentiated and no chondrification has appeared in them .
In G ' ( fig. 15 ) chondrification is complete .
There is a large trigonal radiale ( ra .
) , and post-axiad of it a small but distinct and well chondrified intermedium ( int .
) ; the radius articulates with both these chondrites .
The ulna is in contact post-axiad with the ulnare ( ul .
) and pre-axiad with a large distale ( dist. ) , which is irregularly four-sided in longitudinal sections , and articulates with the radiale , intermedium , ulna , ulnare , and first and second metacarpals .
The first metacarpal ( Mtcp .
l ) is a short , cylindrical cartilage articulating with the radiale , distale , and second metacarpal , and standing out at right angles to the latter .
The third metacarpal ( Mtcp.3 ) is about two-thirds the length of the second , to which it is applied along almost its whole length ; proximally it articulates with the ulnare , VI .
The Brain .
The brain of Stage G ( 1 , Plate 19 , 308 and 309 ) was shown to want only an increase in size and forward extension of the cerebellum to convert it into a typical bird 's brain .
These changes are precisely what have taken place in G ' , the brain of which ( figs. 16-19 ) is at what may be called the critical stage .
The optic lobes are proportionally as large as ever , and have not begun to take on the ventral position , which , as the former paper showed , is fully attained in Stage H ( 1 , Plate 19 , fig. 310 ) .
The cerebellum has grown forward so as almost to meet the cerebral hemispheres , the characteristic sulci have made their appearance , and the flocculus ( Jloc .
) has attained its maximum size .
Figs. 16-18 might very well pass for representations of the brain of a bird belonging to any of the lower carinate orders .
The figures , moreover , are from dissections , and are therefore more reliable than figs. 308 and 309 of my former paper , which are reconstructed from sections .
A sagittal section ( fig. 19 ) shows that the backward tilting of the diencephal , which is one of the most characteristic features of the adult brain ( l , p. 106 , Plate 19 , fig. 301 ) has not yet taken place ; the foramen of Monro ( for .
M. ) and the various commissures are in their normal positions .
The anterior moieties of the hemispheres are still strongly flexed ventrad , as in earlier stages .
VII .
Summary , 1 .
In Stage E ' the characteristic form of the beak has already appeared ( fig. 1 ) ; in Stage F ' the pollex is unusually large ( fig. 2 ) , giving the fore-limb the characters of the wing of a typical bird , 2 .
Horizontal sections of the head in Stage E ' show more satisfactorily than any of my former preparations the structure of the dorsum sellse ( figs. 9 .
and 10 ) , the relations of the three basi-cranial fontanelles and of the trabecular and parachordal regions of the skull ( fig. 11 ) , and the structure of the presphenoid ( fig. 10 ) ; the same specimen exhibits an unusual mode of termination of the notochord ( fig. 10 ) .
3 .
The skull in Stage G ' shows the final form of the chondrocranium before the PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
appearance of cartilage bones ( figs. 3-8 ) ; it also shows more clearly than any of the material for my former paper , the relations of the pre- and orbito-sphenoidal regions .
4 .
A comparison of the present specimens with those formerly examined seems to show that in A. owenithere is always a solid coracoid region to the shoulder-girdle , while in A. australis , as far back as Stage F ' ( perhaps even in E ' ) there is a coracoid fenestra and a ligamentous procoracoid ( fig. 12 ) .
5 .
In addition to the elements hitherto described in the carpus au intermedium may be present ( fig. 13-15 ) .
6 .
The brain in Stage O ' , prepared by dissection , shows typical avian characters , the optic lobes having attained their maximum relative size , and the cerebellum having extended forwards to meet the cerebrum ( figs. 16-19 .
) List of Works Referred to .
1 .
Parker , T. J. " Observations on the Anatomy and Development of .
" ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 182 ( B ) , 1891 , p. 25 .
2 .
Spencer , W. B. " The Nomenclature of Chicken Embryos for Teaching Purposes .
" 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc. Victoria , ' 1890 , p. 23 .
3 .
Parker , W. K. " On the Structure and Development of the Skull in the Crocodilia .
" 'Trans .
Zool. Soc. , ' vol. 11 , p. 263 .
4 .
Morse .
'Annals Lyceum Not .
Hist. New York , ' 1874 , p. 146 .
( Quoted by W. K. Parker , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' vol. 179 ( B ) , p. 386 .
) 5 .
Parker , W. K. " On the Morphology of a Reptilian Bird , Opisthocomus ' Trans. Zool. Soc. , ' vol. 13 , part 2 , p. 43 .
Description of Plates 7 and 8 .
Hyaline cartilage is coloured green .
PLATE 7 .
Fig. 1 .
Stage Eh Entire embryo from the left side . .
, the nasal aperture .
Fig. 2 .
Stage F ' .
Left wing , showing unusually large pollex ( l ) , elongated index ( 2 ) , and small medius ( 3 ) .
Figs. 3-8 .
Stage G. Views of the Skull .
References .
A.A.Trb .
, anterior accessory turbinal .
a.bcr.fo .
, anterior basi-cranial fontanelle .
M Al .
Sph .
, ali-sphenoid .
A. tymp.r .
, anterior tympanic recess .
B. Ptg .
Pr .
, basi-pterygoid process .
Cb .
V. , foramen for cerebral vein .
Coch .
, cochlea .
flc.f .
, floccular fossa .
fov .
, fenestra ovalis .
Fr. , frontal .
Fr. ( ; na.pr .
) , nasal process of frontal .
Fr. ( o.spk.pr .
) , orbito-sphenoid process of frontal .
Int. Car .
, carotid foramen .
Lac .
, lacrymal .
M. Eth .
, mesetbmoid .
Mx .
, maxilla .
Na .
, nasal .
Na.ap .
, nasal aperture .
Nv .
II .
, optic foramen .
Nv .
F1 .
, orbito-nasal foramen .
Nv .
F2'3 .
, trigeminal foramen .
Oc .
Cn .
, occipital condyle .
Orb.sph .
, orbito-sphenoid .
Pa.oc.pr .
, parocciptal process .
p.bcr.fo .
, posterior basi-cranial fontanelle .
Pmx .
, premaxilla .
pn.c .
, pneumatic cavity .
Pr .
Na .
, prenasal cartilage .
Pr .
Sph .
, presphenoid .
Ptg .
, pterygoid .
Qu .
, quadrate .
qu.l , qu.2 , facets for head of quadrate .
Roast .
, parasphenoidal rostrum .
S.orb.f .
, superior orbital fontanelle .
Sq .
, squamosal .
tg.pr .
, tegminal process .
Vo .
, vomer .
x. , area of fibrous tissue separating posterior moiety of pre sphenoid from orbito-sphenoid .
Fig. 3 .
Dorsal aspect , membranous roof and right frontal removed .
Fig. 4 .
Ventral aspect : the anterior basi-cranial fontanelle and the carotid canals are supposed to be seen through the transparent overlying parts .
PROFESSOR T. J. PARKER ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF APTERYX .
Fig. 5 .
From left side .
Fig. 6 .
Ventral aspect : part only , after removal of membrane bones .
Fig. 7 .
From left side , after removal of membrane bones .
Fig. 8 .
Sagittal section .
PLATE 8 .
Figs. 9\#151 ; 11 .
Stage E. Three horizontal sections of the head .
References .
a.bcr.fo .
, anterior basi-cranial fontanelle .
B.Art .
, basilar artery .
Dors.sell .
, dorsum sellse .
Int.car .
, internal carotid artery .
m.berfo.ymiddle basi-cranial fontanelle .
Nek .
, notochord .
Nv .
II.j optic nerve .
Nv .
V.y trigeminal nerve .
Orb .
Sph .
, orbito-sphenoid .
p.bcr.fo .
, posterior basi-cranial fontanelle .
Pr .
Ch. , prochordal cartilage .
Pr .
Sph , , presphenoid .
Pty.ped .
, pedicle of pituitary body .
Scl.y sclerotic .
w. , junction between trabecular and parachordal regions .
x. , transverse commissure , separating anterior and middle basi-cranial fontanelles .
y. y transverse commissure , separating middle and posterior basi-cranial fontanelles .
Fig. 9 .
Through ridge of dorsum sellse , showing the partly concresced prochordal cartilage .
Fig. 10 .
Through ventral region of dorsum sellse , about 0'4 mm. ventrad of fig. 9 , showing the paired presphenoid plates and the dorsum selhe , divided in the middle by the upward extension of the fibrous tissue of the posterior basicranial fontanelle .
Fig. 11 .
Through floor of pituitary fossa , about 0'5 mm. ventrad of fig. 10 , showing the three basi-cranial fontanelles , and the line of junction between the trabecular and parachordal regions .
M 2 Fig. 12 .
Fig. 13 .
Fig. 14 .
Fig. 15 .
Figs. 16Fig .
16 .
Fig. 17 .
Fig. 18 .
Fig. 19 .
Stage G ' .
Left shoulder-girdle .
cicr.cor .
, acro-coracoid process .
Cor. , coracoid .
gl .
, glenoid cavity .
Pr .
Cor. , procoracoid .
Soap .
, scapula .
Stage E ' " I Stage F ' \gt ; Longitudinal sections of fore-limb .
Stage G ' J References .
dist. 2 , dist.3 , second and third distalia .
Hue .
, humerus .
int .
, intermedium .
Mtcp.1 , 2 , and 3 , first , second , and third metacarpals .
Ra .
, radius .
ra .
, radiale .
Ul .
, ulna .
ul .
, ulnare .
19 .
Stage G ' .
The brain , from dissections .
References .
floe .
, flocculus .
For .
M. , foramen of Monro .
inf , infundibulum .
Nv.lL , optic nerve .
opt.chs .
, optic chiasma .
opt.thal .
, optic thalamus .
Pin .
, pineal body .
vel.int .
, velum interpositum .
From above .
From below .
From left side .
Sagittal section .
$ barker .
U*3 ) T.J.R adiiat-d*^ MP .
Pe^rker chr.litii .
Nou .
Ap Pr .
No/ Nv .
V !
Sq .
A723 fiat cb .
bar .
fo p bar fo Irvb .
Gcur " Wkst , Newman imp .
APTERYX australis .
barker .
Phil. Trains.\8%2.B .
Pla8 .
pr .
Ch. ie.(xaj ^ J. P. ad.na.t del* ?
M.P.Parluert ' ckt.11th. .
17 .
( x 3 ) West , Newman imp .
APTERYX AUSTRALIS .

