117 On Negative After-Images w Pure Spectral Colours .
By George J. Burch , M.A. , D.Sc .
Oxon .
, F.R.S. ( Received October 17 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 16 , 1913 .
) In a paper " On Negative After-Images and Successive Contrast with Pure Spectral Colours , " by Mr. A. W. Porter , F.R.S. , and Dr. F. W. Edridge-Green , * the authors describe certain experiments , which they consider impossible of explanation on either the Hearing or the Young-Helmholtz theory of colour vision .
In justice to Thomas Young , it is only fair to point out a discrepancy between the title of the paper and the experimental conditions therein described , viz. : " The method adopted was as follows : In a dark room , which , however , there ivas a certain amount of stray light , a horizontal spectrum , as pure as possible , was projected on a screen .
A portion of the retina of one eye was then fatigued by rigidly gazing at a portion of another spectrum , isolated in the Edridge-Green colour-perception spectrometer . . . .
After the fatiguing light had been viewed for about 20 seconds , the eye was turned to the screen , so that the after-image formed a band running right across the spectrum on the screen and occupying its centre .
" The italics are mine .
It is impossible too strongly to emphasise the fact that a spectrum projected in a room , " in which there is a certain amount of stray light , " cannot be regarded as consisting of pure spectral colours .
The phenomena recorded can all be explained when the stray light is taken into account , and they agree perfectly with Young 's theory .
Moreover , they are familiar in laboratory practice .
Thus , in paragraph 1 , the effect of red light on the blue and violet , rendering these darker and bluer along the line of the after-image , is easily understood if we regard these colours as contaminated with white , the red element of which is removed by the fatigue .
In paragraphs 6 , 7 , 8 , and 9 , the fatiguing ranges were orange-yellow , yellow-green , blue-green , and blue as far as A. 475 , and the after-images are said to have been purple , evidently by admixture with the violet of the stray light .
But in paragraph 10 , with fatiguing light X445-A455 , the after-image was yellow-green\#151 ; clearly because the violet of the stray light was cut out by fatigue .
In paragraphs 16 to 20 , experiments of a more complex character are described , all , however , capable of explanation in accordance with Thomas Young 's theory , if the stray light is taken into account .
This part of the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1912 , B , vol. 85 , p. 434 .
118 On Negative After-Images with Pure Spectral Colours .
paper ends with the words : " No matter what portion of the spectrum was selected , the after-image , where it crossed the spectral band , was seen as a grey square .
" That alone is sufficient to demonstrate the presence of stray light .
Under the head of Conclusions , the authors state that " the negative image is much darker , more difficult to produce , and more evanescent in the absence of all external light as when black velvet and the hands are placed over the eyes .
It is obvious , therefore , that external light has an influence on negative after-images .
" I have used almost these identical words in lecturing on this subject any time these 15 years .
But I have quoted them from the papers of Robert Waring Darwin , which are printed in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1786 , and were undoubtedly made use of by Young in formulating his theory .
It is difficult to understand how anyone can expect to find acceptance for his bare statement , that " it is impossible to explain these facts on the Young-Helmholtz theory of colour vision .
" I have described in my paper " On the Relation of Artificial Colour-Blindness to Successive Contrast " * various methods of observing the phenomena of successive contrast with really pure spectral colours , using stimuli no stronger than those employed by Mr. Porter and Dr. Edridge-Green .
My results are different from theirs , and are in all respects quite in accordance with the theory expounded by Thomas Young .
It is a matter of everyday demonstration in the laboratory that , using moderate stimuli , with persons of normal colour sensation , yellow does change to green after fatigue to red , and to red after fatigue to green .
And I am bound also to note that persons whose green sensation is weak fail to see this change in the colour of yellow after fatigue .
* 4 Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1900 , B , vol. 66 , p. 206 .

