I. " Notice of Recent Scientific Researches carried on Abroad .
" By the FOREIGN SECRETARY .
Thro ; ugh M. Haidinger my attention has been called to the important labours of Professor Kolenati and Professor Oscar Schmidt , in Natural History , and to those of M. Albrecht Schrauf in Physics .
Dr. Friedrich Anton Kolenati , Professor of Natural History in the Polytechnicum of Briinn in Mioravia , and Founder of the Bohemian Natural History Society 'Lotos , ' is the author of upwards of 100 memoirs on various departments of Natural HIistory , Geology , Mineralogy , and Crystallography , containing descriptions of nearly 400 species discovered by himself .
The limits of this notice forbid the recital of the titles of these memoirs , or of the names of the species therein described .
Some of Professor Kolenati 's principal works are : Meletemata Entomologica , containing a description of the insects discovered by the author during a journey in the Calucasus and Transcaucasian provinces of Russia in the years 1843 , 1844 , 1845 , 1846 .
Also various Memoirs on Chiroptera , Arachnida , and Insects , published independently or in the Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie , Lotos , and the Memoires de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou , 1861 .
Dr. Oscar Schmidt , Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy at Gratz , is the author of the following memoirs:1 .
Die rhabdocoelen Strudelwiirmer des siissenWassers .
Jena .
2 .
Never Beitraige sir Naturgeschichte der W'iirier , gesammelt auf einer Reise nach den Fiaroer .
Jena .
3 .
Never Rhabdocoelen aus dem nordischen und dem adriatischen Mere .
Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie .
Band IX .
4 .
Sir Kentniss der Turbellaria rhabdocoela , &amp;c. des Mittelmeeres .
Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie .
Band XXIII .
5 .
Die rhabdocoelen Strudelwiirmer aus den Umgebungen von Krakau .
Denikschriften der Wiener Akademie .
Band XV .
6 .
Die dendrocoelen Strudelwiirmer aus den Umgebungen von Gratz .
Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftliche Zoologie .
Leipzig .
Band X. 7 .
Untersuchungen iber Turbellarien von Corfu und Cephalonien .
Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Zoologie .
Leipzig .
Band XI .
8 .
Ueber Planaria torva Autorum .
Zeitschrift fuir wissenschaftliche Zoologie .
Leipzig .
Band XI .
The first five memoirs are devoted only to the arrangement of worms , Class " Turbellaria , " which Ehrenbe rg named " Rhabdocoela .
" Subsequently the investigations are extended to the " B endrocoela .
" In No. 1 the general anatomico-physiological relations of the order are for the first time established with scientific precision , and a series of species are described accordingly .
In No. 2a very remarkalble deviation of the genus DinopJiilus is described .
No. 3 contains the description of seventeen Rhabdoceles , which are all new with the exception of Convoluta paradoxa .
In No. 4 are described nine species of Rhabdoceles from the Mediterraneanl , mostly from the Bay of Naples , together with some other worms .
No. 5 contains the list and special description of twenty species , of which ten are new , observed in the neighbourhood of Cracow .
The anatomical descriptions embrace almost all the principal genera : VTor tex , Derostomzira , Mesostomnum , Prostornum .
Nos. 6 , 7 , 8 contain researches respecting Turbellaria dendrocoela .
The author has described most of the freshwater species existing in Germany , and some from Corfu .
Professor Schmidt 's investigations extend to eighty species of the Turbellaria rhabdocoela , and dendrocoela , sixty-two of which were discovered by himself .
Since Quatrefages published his ' Memoir sir les Planaries , ' 1847 , and Dalyell published his observations on various orders of Turbellarie ( The Powers of the Creator , ' 1851 , 1853 ) , nothing has been done either in France or England to improve the anatomical knowledge of this very attractive group .
Professor Schmidt declares that he will consider it a reward for his own labours if English zoologists can be induced by means of this notice to turn their attention to the Fauna to which it refers .
The following notice of his researches has been furnished to the Foreign Secretary by M. Schrauf .

