]\gt ; 84 Lord Kelvin and Mr. M. Maclean .
[ May 31 , JournaJs ( continued ) .
Zeitschrift fur Naturwissenschaften .
Bd . .
Heft 5\mdash ; 6 . .
Naturwissensc haftlicher Verein , Halle .
Dollen ( W. ) Stern-Epbemeriden auf das Jahr 1894 . .
Dorpat .
The Author .
Girouard ( D. ) Lake St. Louis OId and New ] lustrated and Cavelier de La SalIe . .
Nontreal 1893 .
The Author .
Hunt ( A. R. ) On certain Affinities between the onian Rocks of South Devon and the Metamorphic Schists .
8 .
London 1892 ; [ and three other pamphlebs .
] The Author .
Hutchinson ( Bev .
H. N. ) Creatures of other Days .
1894 .
The Publishers .
Marsh ( O. C. ) Restoration of .
[ New Haven ] 1894 .
The Author .
May 31 , 1894 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , folIowed by Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , .D .
, Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " the Electrification of ir By LORD KELVIN , P.R.S. , and MAGNUS MACLEAN .
M.A. , F.B. .
Received lIay 9 , 1894 .
S 1 .
air can be ified either positively or is obvious from the fact that an isolated of pure water , electrified either positively or atively , can be wholly aporated in air .
* Thirty-four years ago it was pointed out by one of * This an ] to qnestion , Can a mclecude of a gas be charged with electricity ' , ' Rcccnt ches m and ' S 36 , 1 .
53 A nd showb hut } cexpcl.iments referred to as pointing to the oppositc conclusio are to be ])ined oerwisc .
Since was , we find , in the ' Rcview ' of May 18 , on page in a lectul .
C by Elihtu , the following:\mdash ; " " It is as leave the 5urface of the earth and risc in the } is an increase of positive potential 1894 .
] On ctriJication of Air .
85 as probable that in ordinary natural conditions , the for some considerable height above the earth 's surface is electrified , and that the incessant variations of electrostatic force which he bad observed , minute after minute , during calms and light winds , and often under a cloudless sky , were due to motions of large quantities of positively or negatively electrified air in the neighbourhood of the place of observation .
S 2 .
It was .
by observations in the Old College of Glasgow University that the air was in general negatively eleCtritied , not only Loors , within the old lecture roomS of Natural Philosophy , bub also in the oors space of the College , open to the sky though closed arou1ld with high buildings , and between it and the top of the College Tower .
The Old College was in a somewbat low situation , surrounded by a densely owded part of a great city .
In the new University buildings , crowning a hill on the western boundary of Glasgow , similar phenomena , with less general with respect to the ground . . . . .
It is not clearly proven that a pure gas , rarefied not , can receive and convey a charge .
If we iInagine a charged drop of water suspended in air and porating , it follows , unless the cbal.ge be carried off in the vapour , the potential of the drop would rise steadily as its stlrface dimin , and would become infinite as the drop disappeared , unless the charge were dissipated before the complete drying ) of the drop by dispersion of or conveyance of electricity by its vapour .
The charge celtainly require to pass somewhere , and might leave the arged.\ldquo ; It is quite clear that ' ' must\ldquo ; ought to be substituted for " " might " " in this last line .
Thus the vagueness and doubts expressed in the first part of the quoted tatement are annulled by the last three sentences of it .
* ' ' Even in fair weather the intensity of electric in the air near the earth 's surface is perpetually fluctuating .
speakcr had often observed it , pecially duriug calms or very light breezes from the east , varJ ing DanieU 's elements per foot to three or four times that amount durlng few minntes , and relurning again as rapidly to the lower amount .
frequentlv he had obsel.ved variations from about 30 to about 40 , and back in uncerperiods of perhaps about two minutes .
These gradual variations cannot but be by electrified masses of air cloud , iioating by the locality cf tion \mdash ; Lord Kelvin 's ' Electrostatics and Magnetism , ' art .
xvi , S 282 .
The air potential , as tested by a pol.table eleetrometer in an opell place , or even by a water-dropping nozzle outside , two or three feet from the walls of the lecture room , wss generally on these occasions positive , tlnd the earth 's surface therefore , of course , negative\mdash ; the common .
weather condition\mdash ; hich I am forced to conclude is due to paramount inlluence of posive electlicity in higher egions of the air , notwithstanding the elcc icity of the air in the lower stratum near the carth 's surface .
On the two or three sions when the in-door electricit } .
was found positive , thel.efore , the surface of the { loor , walls and ceiling ) egalive , the potential ccrtainly positive , and the earth 's surface out-of-doors negative , as in finc weathcr.\ldquo ; \mdash ; , S 300 .
Ibid. , Q. 2 , S 283 .
S Ibid. , SS ) 86 Lord Kelvin and Mr. M. Maclean .
[ May prevalence of negative electricity in the air , have been observed , both indoors , in the large Bute Hall , and in many other smaller rooms , and out-of-doors , in the court , which is somewhat similar to the courts of the Old ColIege , but much larger .
It is possible that the negative electricity found thirty years ago in the air of the Old College , may have been due to its sittlation , surrounded by houses with their fires , and smoking factory the New College of the prevalence of negative electricity in air within doors has , howevel , been fonnd to be due to electrification by the burning lamp*used with the quadrant electrometer ; and more recent observations , with electrification by flame absolute ] excluded , throw doubt on the old conclusion , that both in town and couIjtry negative eIectrification is the prevailing condition of natural atmospheric air in the lower egions of the atmosphere .
S 3 .
The electric ventilation found in the Old College , and described in S299 of " " Elecbrostatics and Magnetism ccording to which air drawn through a chink , less than in .
wide , of a slightly open window or door , into a large room , showed the electrification which it had on the other side of the chink , whether that lvas the natural ] ectrification of the open air , or positive or negativo electrification produced by aid of a spirit lamp and electric machine in an adjoining room , has been tried again in the new College with quite corresponding results .
It has also been extended to the drawing in of electrified air through a tubs to the represented in of the present paper ; with the result that the watel-dropping test indicated in the sketcb , ] sufficed to show the electrification , and verify that it was always the same as that of the air outside .
When the tube was filled with loosely packed cotbon-wool the electritication of the entering air was so nearly annulled as to be insensib ] to the test .
S4 .
The object proposed for the experiments described in the present communication was to find if a small unchatl portion of could be elecbrified sufficiently to show its electrification tests , and could keep its fication for any considerable time ; and to test whether or not dus iu tlJe air is essential to whatever of electrification might be observed in such circumstances , or is much in it .
S 5 .
The arrangement for the experiments is shown in the dia , Fig. 1 .
AA is a sheet-iron vat inverted on a wooden tray with lead .
By filling the tray with water the air is confined in the vat .
are two holes in the top of the vat : * ' Elcctrification of Air bustion .
' Magnus , F.R.S. Mnkita Goto , Society of , Novcmber 20 , 1889 ; ilication of Water Jet , ' Magn clean , , F.B.S.L. , and lfakita Goto , ' 'August , 394 .
On the cation of FIG. 2 .
88 Lord Kelvin and Mr. M. Maclean .
[ May 81 , one for the water-dropper , and one for the charging wire D. Both the -dropper , and the charging wire , ending with a pin .
point as sharp as possil ) , are insulated by solid paraffin , which is surrounded by a meta ] tube , as shown in half size ill Fig. 2 .
To start with they were supported by pieces of vulcanite embedded in paraffin .
But it was found that after the lapse of some days , ( possibly on account of ozone generated by the incessant brush discharges ) , the insulation had utterly failed in both of them .
The vulcanite pieces were then taken out , and solid paraffin , with the metal guard-tube round it to screen it electrically influencing the water-dropper , was substituted .
This has proved quite satis- factory : the water-dropper , with the flow of watel .
stopped , holds a positive or a negative charge for hours .
S 6 .
A quadrant electrometer ( described in " " Electrostatics and Magnetism SS 346\mdash ; 353 ) was set up on the top of the vat near the water-dropper , as shown in Fig. 1 .
It was used with lamp and semitransparent scale to indicate the difference of potential between the water-dropper and the vat .
The sensibility of the ometer was 21 scale divisions millime per volt , and as the scale was 90 centimetres long , difference of potentials up to 43 volts positive or negative , could be read by adjusting the metallic zero to the middle of the scale .
A frictional plate-electric machine was used , and by means of it , in connection with the pin-point , the air inside the vat could be electrified positively or negativeIy .
S 7 .
The vat was fixed in position in the Apparatus Room of the Natural Philosophy Department of the of on the 13th of December , 1893 , and for more than three months the air inside was left undisturbed except discharges from the pin-point whrough the electrifying wire .
and by the sprny from the water- dropper .
Thus the air was becoming more and more freed of dust day by day .
Yet at the end of the four months we found that the was as easily electrilied , either positively or negatively , as it was the beginning ; and that if we electrify it strongly by turning the machine for half-an-hour , it retains a siderable ption of this electrification for several S 8 .
Observations were tak-en almost daily since the 13th ; but the following , on the of ebruary , the of March , and the of , will as specimens , the resuIts shown in each case by a curve .
At all these dates the air must have been very free from dust .
Both during the charging and during the observations the case of the electrometer and one pair of uadrants are kept nletallical]y comlected to vat .
During th charging the water-dropper and the othel pair of ants were also kept in connection with the vat .
Immediately after the charging was stopped the charging-wire was connected metallically to the out1894 .
] On ihe cation of Air .
89 side of the vat , and left so with its sharp point unchanged in its position inside the vat during all the observations .
S 9 . .
February 8 , 1894.\mdash ; The friction-plate machine was turned positive for half-an-hour .
Ten mmutes after the machine stopped the water-dropper was filled and joined to one quadrants of the electrometer , while the other pair was to the case of the instrument .
The first reading on the curve was taken four minutes afterwards , is fourteen minutes after bhe machine stopped running ( 18 volts Time Curve 2 .
, 1894.\mdash ; The friction-plate machine was turned positive for five minutes .
The water-dropper was filled and joined to the eIectrometer immediately after the machine stopped turning .
The spot was off the scale , and nine minutes elapsed it appeared on the scale .
The first reading on the curve was taken one minute afterwards , or ten minutes after the machine stopped turning ( voIts ) .
Curve 3 .
ilIarch 12 , 1894 .
Voss induction machine was joined to the charging wire , and run by an electric motor for 4 hours 19 minutes .
A test was applied at the ' of the run to make sure that it was charging negatively ; and a similar test when it was disconnected from the charging wire in the vat showed it to be still charging negatively .
The water-dropper was joined to the electrometer , and the spot appeared on the scale ] .
The first reading on the curve was taken half a minute after the machine was disconnected ( voIts ) .
90 Lord Kelvin and Mr. M. Maclean .
[ May 31 , Curve 4 .
April 23 , 1894.\mdash ; The friction-plate machine was turned positive seconds , with water-dropper ' and joined to electrometer .
20 seconds after the machine stopped the spot appeared on the scale , and the reading minutes after the stopped turning is the first point on the curve ( voIts ) .
Curve 5 .
Aprif 23 , 1894.\mdash ; The -plate machine was turned negative for 30 seconds , with the water-dropper running and joined to the electrometer .
10 seconds afterwards the ppeared on the and the seconds after the machine stopped turning is the first point on the curve ( volts ) .
The curves show , what we always found , that the air does not letain a negative electrification so long as it retains a positive .
We found , by giving equal numbers of turns to the machine that the immediately resulting difference of potential between the waterdropper and the vat was greater for the ative than for the posiOn the of tive elecbriiication ; though the quantity received from the machine was probably less in the case of the negative eJectrification , because the negative conductor was less well insulated tlJan the posilive .
S 10 .
On the of Marcl ] , two -tubes were put in below the edge of the vat , one on either side , so that it might be possible to blow dusty , or smoky , or dustless air into the vat .
To one was fitted a blowpipc bellows , and by placing it on the top of a box in which brown paper and rosin were burning , the vat was filled with smoky air .
Again , several layers of cottcn-wool placed on the mouth of the bellows , so as to get dustless air into the vat .
The bellows were worked for several hours on four successive days , and we found no appreciable difference ( 1 ) in the ease with the air could be electrified by discharges from the wirc connccted to the electric machine , and ( 2 ) in the length of time the air retains ils electrification .
92 Lord Kelvin and Mr. M. Maclean .
[ May But it was found that , as had been observed four years ago lvitb the same apparattl with the water-dropper insulated and connected to the electrometer , and no elecbrification of any kind to begin a ative electrification amounting to four , five .
or six volts gradu .
ally supervened if the water-dropper was kept running for 60 or 70 minuves , through air which dusty , or ttural , to begin with .
It was also found , as in the observations of four years ago , that no electrification of this kind was produced by the dropping of the water through air purified of dust .
The bend of the tube of the water-dropper shown in the drawing was made for the purpose of acting as a trap to prevent the natural dusty air of the locality from entering the vat when the water-dropper ran empty .
S11 .
The eqnilibrium of electrified air within a space enclosed by a fixed bounding surface of conducting material presents an interesting illustration of elementary hydrostatic principles .
The condition to be fulfilled is simply that the surfaces of equal elecbric .
' volumedensity\ldquo ; are of equal potential , if we assume that the material density air at given temperature and pressure is not altered by electrification .
This assumption we temporarily make from want of knowledge ; but it is quite possible that experiment may prove that it is not accurately true ; and it is to be hoped that experimental lnvestigation will be made for answering this very interesting question .
S 12 .
For stable equilibrium it is further necessary that the elecbric density , if not uniform throughout , diminishes from the .
ding surface inwards .
Hence , if there is a portion of nonelectriiied air in the enclostlre it must be wholly surl'ounded by electrified air .
S 13 .
We may form some idea of the absolute value of the electric ensity , and of the electrostatic force in different parts of the ellclosure , the electrifications found in our experiments , by considering instead of our vat a spherical enclos re of diameter intermediate between the diameter and depth of the vat which we used .
Consider , for exampIe , a spherlcal space eucIosed in metal of 100 cm .
diameter , and let the nozzle of the water-dropper be so placed that the stream breaks into drops at the centre of the space .
The potential shown by the electro- meter connected with , being the difference between the potentials of the at the boundary and at the centre , will be the difference of the potentials at the centre due respectively the total quanti of electricity distributed through the air and the equal and opPOSi quantity on the inner boundary of the enclosing metal ; and therefore have the formula:\mdash ; * Haclean and Goto , ' Plulosophical Magazine , ' August , 1890 .
1894 .
] On the Electrifi cation of Air .
denotes th potential indicated by the water-dropper , the radius of the spherical hollow , and the electric density of the air at distance from the centre .
Supposing now , for example , to be constant from the surface to the centre ( which may be nearly the case after long electrification as performed in our experiments ) , we find whence To further , suppose the potential to have been 38 volts or electrostatic c.g.s. ( which is less than the greatest found in experiments ) and take cm .
: we find The electrostatic force at distance from the centre , )\ldquo ; is therefore equal to .
Hence a small body ] ectrified with a quantity of electricity equal to that possessed by a cubic centimetre of the air , and placed midway between the surface and centre of the enclosure experiences a force equal to , or 6 .
, or approximately rammes weight .
This is per of the force of on a cubic centimetre of air of density S14 .
Hence we see that , on the supposition of electric density uniform throughout the spherical enclosure , each cubic centimebre of air experience , an electrostatic force towards in simple proportion to the centre , and amounting at the boundary to nearly 10 per cent. of the force of vity upon it ; and electric forces of not very dissimilar magnitudes must have acted on the electrified as it actually was in the non-spherical enclosure used in our experiments .
If natural air or clo , close to the ground or in the lower regions of the earth 's atmospherc , is ever , as in all probability it often is , electrified to as great a degree of electric density as we have ound it within our experimental vat , the natural electrostatic force in the atmosphere , due as it is , no doubt , to positive electricity in very high regions , must exercise an important ponderoforce quite comparable in magnitude with that due to ence of temperatures in different positions .
It is interesting to remark that negatively electrilied air over negatively electrified ound , and with llon-electrified air above it , in an absolute calm , would be in unstable equilibrium ; and the nega- ti electrified air would therefore rise , probably in large masses , through the non-electrified air up to the higher ions , the itive electrification is supposed to reside .
with no ication than that which we have had within ) vat , the forces would be sufficicnt to producc palable with that of .
warmed by the gl.ound and rising colder air above .
S 1 During a understorm the electrification of air , or of and the spherules cloud , need .
not bc stronger than that found in our expcriments .
This we scc ) collidering t if a ulliformly electrified globe of a 94 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On Effect of Magnetisation [ May produces a diflerence of potential of.38 volts between its surface and centre , a globe of a kilometre diameter , electrified to the same density , reckoned according to the total electricity in any small volumS electricity spherules water , are any in it ) , would produce a diiference of potential of 38 million voIts between its surface and centre .
In a thunderstorm , flashes of lightning shoV us differences of potentials of millions of volts , but not perhaps of many times 38 million volts , between places of the atmosphere distant from one another by half a kilometre .
II .
" " On the Effect of Magnetisation upon the Dimensions ot Iron Rings in Directions perpendicular to the tion , and upon the Volume of the Rings By SHELFORD BIDWELL , M.A. , .B .
, F.B.S. Received March 2 , A recent communication*to the Society contained account oi Olne eiments relating to the effects of magnetisation upon the dilnensions of two iron rings , one of whicf ] was allnealed and tha : other hardened .
The had tlJe form of short cylinders about 6 cm .
in diameter , cm .
in height , and cm .
in thickness .
The .
experiments in question were concerned with the variations which took place along the lines of magnetisation ; those to be here described deal with the concomitant variations in the height of the cylinders ( width of the rings ) transversely to the netisation .
On the assumption variations similar to tho latter occur at the same time in the thickness of the metal , it is possible to deduce the changes in the volume of the ring which attend isation .
, from a , shows bow the were prepared for the experiments .
Four brass rods were hard-soIdered to the iron , two of them being in a line with a diameter , while the other were attached to the es , opposite to one allobher , and parallel to the axis of the ring .
The was inserted in a wooden case , also shown , through holes in which the four brass projected .
Insulatsd vire for carrying netising current was wound over the wooden jackct .
For the new the ring was placed in a horizontal position , one of the edge rods resting upon a brass socket on the adjustable base of the instrument , and the other , which had a chisel-shaped 1 end , actuating the lever .
To counterbadance the of the ring , a horizontal arm , carrying a sliding } fixed to the ' lower rod .
-R , oy .
Soc. Proc vol. , p. 228 .
( 1 he shaped termin .
piece was ) is not in

