On some Combinations of Platinunm .
By Edmund Davy , Esq. ProJessor of Chemistry , and Secretary to the Cork Institution .
Communicated by F. Babington , M.D. F.R.S. Read February 17 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 108 .
] The principal object of this paper is to describe a peculiar compound of platinum , obtained from the sulphate by the agency of alcohol .
On boiling sulphate of platinum with alcohol , a substance is precipitated , which , when dried , is black , insoluble in water , and unalterable by exposure to air .
It is reduced with a slight explosion when heated .
It acquires fulminating properties when steeped in ammonia .
It is insoluble in nitric , sulphuric , and phosphoric acids , and slowly soluble in muriatic acid .
By alcohol it is immediately decomposed , as shown by slightly moistening it with that liquid ; and such heat is produced as to ignite the separated platina .
During these changes acetic acid is formed .
Mr. Davy gives a detailed analysis of this powder , whence it appears to consist almost solely of platinum , with a little oxygen , and the elements of nitrous acid ; a small portion of carbon was also obtained , which , however , the author regards as accidental ; the presence of nitrous acid is referred to the manner in which the sulphate of platinum is formed , namely , by the agency of nitrous acid on sulphuret of platinum .
In the fifth and sixth sections of this paper , Mr. Davy describes the action of sulphate of platinum upon solutions of jelly , in which it forms a precipitate composed , when dried at 2120 , of 56 11 oxide of platinum , 20-02 sulphuric acid , 23-87 gelatine and water .
The author considers the sulphate of platinum as the most delicate known test for jelly .
In the seventh section of his paper , Mr. Davy describes a grey oxide of platinum , obtained by the action of nitrous acid on fulminating platinum , and affording on analysis , 100 platinum + 11 9 oxygen .
Assuming , with Vauquelin and Berzelius , that the black oxide of platinum contains 15 per cent. of oxygen , the author observes that the grey oxide which he has described may be considered as the protoxide , and will consist of one proportion of platinum and one of oxygen , or 126 platinum + 15 oxygen , and the black oxide will consist of 126 platinum and 22*5 oxygen , or of one proportion of metal and 1 of oxygen .

