609 II .
" Ice Observations .
" By DAVID WALKER , M.D. , Surgeon and Naturalist to the Arctic Discovery Expedition .
Communicated by THOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. Received December 16 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The contradictory statements of Dr. Sutherland and Dr. Kane , with regard to the saltness of the ice formed from sea-water , the former maintaining that sea-water ice contains about one-fourth of the salt of the original water ; the latter , that if the cold be sufficiently intense , there will be formed from sea-water a fresh and purer element fit for domestic use , -induced the author to take advantage of his position , as naturalist to the expedition now in the northern seas , to reinvestigate the subject .
The changes which he has observed sea-water to undergo in freezing are the following .
When the temperature falls below + 28ยง 5 , it becomes covered with a thin pellicle of ice ; after some time this pellicle becomes thicker and presents a vertically striated structure , similar to that of the ordinary cakes of sal-ammoniac .
As the ice further increases in thickness , it becomes more compact , but the lowest portion still retains the striated structure .
On the surface of the ice , saline crystals , designated by the author " efflorescence , " soon begin to form , at first few in number and widely separated , but gradually forming into tufts and ultimately covering the whole surface .
At first , the increase in thickness of the ice is rapid , but afterwards the rate of growth is much slower and more uniform .
The ice formed yields , on being melted , a solution differing in specific gravity according to the temperature at the time of congelation , its density being less , the lower the temperature at which the process of congelation took place .
Although the author 's observations extended from +28 ?
'5 to -42 ?
, he was never able to obtain fresh-water from sea-ice , the purest specimen being of specific gravity 1'005 , and affording abundant evidence of the presence of salts , especially of chloride of sodium , in such quantity as to render it unfit for domestic purposes .
The efflorescence already referred to appeared sooner or later , according to the temperature of the air , but generally commenced when the ice was of an inch thick , and continued to form till 610 the ice attained a thickness of about 9 inches , when , in consequence of the compactness of the frozen mass , it ceased to appear at the surface .
The lower the temperature at which the ice was formed , the more abundant was the efflorescence .
Direct experiments made by freezing sea-water in a large tub , showed that the unfrozen residuum contained a considerable portion of salts expressed from the ice .
The author therefore infers , that after the efflorescence had ceased to form on the surface , the saline particles were precipitated into the unfrozen liquid below .
On exposing the residual liquid from which the ice had been separated to a freezing temperature , a second residuum was obtained , containing more salts than the first ; and by repeating the process several times , there remained finally a strong solution of brine .
The author endeavoured , by reversing this process , to procure fresh-water .
He remelted the ice from sea-water and froze it again , repeating the operation several times .
Ice was thus obtained , which , when melted , gave water , having a density of from 1'0025 to 1'0020 .
A " heavy nip " having occurred in the floe near the ship afforded an opportunity of examining the quality of the ice at different depths .
The thickness of the entire mass was 54 inches ; the density of the solution obtained by melting successive portions varied from 1'0078 to 1'0050 ; those near the surface giving a liquid of higher density than the rest .
A specimen taken from the centre of the mass was reserved for analysis .
With regard to the " efflorescence , " the author states that its appearance was very different according as the temperature was above or below -25 ? .
In the former case , it exhibited a plumose form , with secondary plumes branching off ; in the latter , it consisted of fibrous crystals varying from t to 2 inches in length .
This efflorescence acts an important part in the breaking up of the floe .
From the middle of January cracks and lanes occur in the floe , which subsequently become filled with new ice covered as usual with the saline efflorescence and a little snow .
When the sun 's rays fall upon this incrustation , it melts and forms a thick liquid on the top .
This penetrates gradually through the ice and aids greatly in breaking it up .
The author supposes that a process of endosmosis and exosmosis is , in fact , established through the body of the ice .
611 similar , but less powerful , action is produced by the same cause on the mass of the floe itself .
In the artificial freezing of sea-water , the ice was found to be vertically striated , and often divisible into two or more layers , while the under surface was always marked by fine lines intersecting each other at definite angles .
From the bottom of the vessel thin plates of ice formed in the unfrozen liquid .
They varied in length from in .
to 21 in .
, and contained less salt than the ice formed on the top .
To explain the observation of Dr. Kane as to the freshness of ice formed from sea-water under -30 ?
, the author supposes that it may have depended on the freezing of a portion of sea-water which was covered at the time of its congelation with a stratum of fresh-water produced by the melting of bergs .
On the 12th of April , 1857 , whilst lying off Brown 's Island , within about 4 miles of a glacier surrounded by bergs , the author observed a layer of fresh-water , 2 or 3 inches in depth , floating , like oil , on the surface of the saltwater .
To this cause he attributes the occasional occurrence of hummocks from the upper portions of which ice perfectly free from salt can be obtained , while on digging deeper into these hummocks , the ice is always found to lose its freshness , III .
' Inquiries into the Phenomena of Respiration .
" By EDWARD SMITH , M.D. , Assistant-Physician to the Hospital for Consumption , Brompton .
Communicated by Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. , P.R.S. Received December 16 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives in this communication the result of numerous inquiries into the quantity of carbonic acid expired , and of air inspired , with the rate of pulsation and respiration , -1st , in the whole of the twenty-four hours , with and without exertion and food ; 2nd , the variations from day to day , and from season to season ; and 3rd , the influence of some kinds of exertion .
After a description of the apparatus employed by previous observers , he describes his own apparatus and method .
This consists of a spirometer to measure the air inspired , capable of registering any number of cubic inches ; and an analytical apparatus to abstract

