Observations intended to show that the progressive Motion of Snakes is partly performed by means of the Ribs .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 27 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1812 , p. 163 .
] In the cobra di capello , Mr. Home formerly observed to the Society , that the power which it possesses of elevating its hood , depends on the motion of the ribs of the neck , which have a peculiar form adapted to that purpose .
He has lately found that this motion is not , as he then supposed , confined to those ribs alone of that snake , but appears to be common to all the ribs of the whole tribe of snakes .
Mr. Home acknowledges himself indebted to the President , who first remarked an apparent motion of the ribs in succession , like the feet of a caterpillar , in a large coluber , brought for his inspection into his library .
And Mr. Home , by placing his hand underneath the belly of the snake , distinctly felt the ends of the ribs press in succession on the palm of the hand as the animal passed over it .
By examining the skeleton of a large boa , formerly sent from India by Sir William Jones , and now deposited in the Hunterian collection , the structure of the ribs which adapts them for such motion was very evident , and is described by the author with figures , which show a distinct attachment of a rib on both sides to each vertebra by a ball and socket-joint .
It is remarked , that in this tribe of animals the relative positions of the ball and socket are reversed from their usual situation , the socket being attached to the extremity of the rib , and fitted to a protuberance from the body of the vertebra , instead of the extremity of the rib being applied to an indentation between two adjacent vertebrse .
Hence the ribs do not in any degree interfere with the motion of the vertebrae upon each other , as in other animals .
The muscles by which these motions are performed , are also described by Mr , Home ; but the distribution of them cannot readily be understood , without reference to the drawings which accompany the paper .
At the termination of each rib is a small cartilage , which rests for its whole -length on the inner surface of the corresponding abdominal scutum , to which it is connected by a short muscle .
The scutum being thus moved by a rib from each side , its posterior edge lays hold of the ground , and becomes the support by which the adjacent portion of the body is propelled forwards , and by a series of alternate motions is capable of renewing the impulse with considerable rapidity .
Mr. Home remarks , that in the Draco volans the wings , by which the animal flies , are supported by ribs , which form the skeleton of them ; but in this instance the elongated ribs are superadded , for the sole purpose of forming the wings , and do not , as in the snake , assist in the process of respiration , at the same time that they are employed in giving progressive motion .

