377 .
] On Attraction and Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
137 indsfirst , the annelid growth has determined outgrowth of the coral hich has covered in the worm-tube ; and second , the establishment of )me Hydrozoa on the ectoderm of the coral has sometimes produced the urination of tubes of coral-structure which environ the stalk of the ( fender and form a useful support to it .
Finally it may be remarked that all the Madreporaria which were rought up with the cable from off this area have an unusual ornamentation .
I have to thank Sir James Anderson for the specimens and for the ietails of the recovery of the cable .
II .
" On Attraction and Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat " By Walter Noel Hartley , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. , King^s College , London .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 26,1877 .
In my first paper " On the presence of Liquid Carbon Dioxide in Mine-til Cavities " ( ' Journal of the Chemical Society/ February 1876 ) , I nentioned having noticed a remarkable repulsion of the bubbles in fluid-:avities when they were approached by a heated body .
I at first regarded hese movements as similar to those observed by Mr. Sang and Dr. Hunter ( Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , 1872-73 , p. 126 ) in cavities of Iceland spar ; but with reference to the position of the source of heat , I have since found that they occurred in quite the reverse lirection .
The motion noticed by Mr. Sang was a repulsion of the liquid ; that which I recorded was a repulsion of the gas by the heated body .
Here I may as well say that this refers to the real and not the apparent direction of the motion as seen under the microscope .
Professors Tait and Swan have shown ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. of Edinburgh , 1873-74 , p. 247 ) that the attraction of the bubble by a heated body is a natural effect if the liquid be of great volatility , in contact only with its own vapour , as would be the case if the cavity were filled with carbonic acid .
Distillation of the liquid would take place when one side of the bubble was heated ever so slightly above the temperature of the other , and condensation would occur on the cooler side .
This would occasion a movement of the bubble from the cold to the warm side of the cavity ; but it is not the original bubble being simply propelled .
Professor Tait assumes that the liquid in Mr. Sang 's specimens is carbonic acid , and applies this explanation .
This might well be the case , because the attracting pieces of metal used were but a very few degrees warmer than the specimens acted on ; but from other circumstances , some of which I propose giving in detail , I am of opinion that these were water-bubbles .
The attraction of a gas-bubble in a cavity containing liquid carbonic 138 Mr. W. N. Hartley on Attraction and [ Apr. 12 , acid will always take place when the proportion of liquid to gas is so small that evaporation is readily effected .
If the liquid at 15 ' C. occupies one half of the space of the cavity , this will occur only under special conditions , because the liquid in such proportions expands by increase of temperature .
Thus in the case of a cavity in a topaz , shown in fig. 1 , a number of experiments have invariably failed to cause any transference of the bubble from place to place .
The approach of a warm substance causes immediate expansion of the liquid and decrease in size of the bubble .
The gas-bubble in a cavity of rock-crystal , shown in fig. 2 , behaves quite differently ; the proportion of liquid to gas is such that heat causes evaporation instead of expansion ; and accordingly the liquid is repelled apparently , and the gas-bubble attracted by a heated body .
With the cavity in tourmaline ( fig. 3 ) , when the heat is applied in a particular manner , the same movement takes place ; ordinarily the liquid expands .
To cause distillation and not expansion , the source of heat must be small and the rise of temperature slight , in order that only one end of the cavity may be heated .
I have always failed to get this effect with the topaz cavity , probably because the thickness of the section causes the heat to be diffused over the liquid .
The tourmaline section is thin and the cavity long and narrow , and is therefore an easy one to experiment with ; so likewise is the cavity shown in fig. 5 , Ej it contains carbonic acid only , and the bubble is easily attracted when the source of heat is properly applied .
In the course of some thousands of observations , made within the last two years , I have noticed other movements than such as may be compared with the experiments of Professors Tait and Swan on tubes of liquid sulphurous acid .
The circumstances influencing these movements , and the various conditions under which they take place , render it necessary that I should disregard the order in which I observed and originally recorded them ; for I have on more than one occasion been bewildered by noticing what appeared to be diametrically opposite facts in experimenting on the same specimen , and even on the contents of the same cavity .
I therefore consider it expedient to classify my experiments , in order to make the account of them intelligible .
The attraction of bubbles by heat , water being the only liquid present .
With regard to the attraction of bubbles by heat , I have noticed this take place in some water-cavities when the bubbles were free to move and no carbonic acid was present .
In order that no mistake might possibly occur as to the relative positions of the source of heat and the moving bubble , a hot platinum wire was used and always brought into the field of the microscope .
Some thousands of cavities have been noticed occurring in sections of rock-crystal and in the quartz of various kinds of granite .
The rise in temperature required to cause this movement was measured at first by blowing warm air 377 .
] Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
ith a ball-syringe on to the object , and then directing it on to the bulb ; a delicate thermometer .
With the most sensitive bubbles three or four agrees Centigrade were found to be amply sufficient .
6 .
'/ .
The letters in italics ( a , 6 , c ) within the drawings of fluid-cavities indicate the positions of the gaseous carbonic acid , liquid carbonic acid , and water respectively .
Pig .
1 .
Cavity in a topaz .
X 35 diameters .
Pig .
2 .
Cavity in rock-crystal .
X 46 diameters .
Fig. 3 .
Cavity in tourmaline .
Fig. 4 .
Cavity in rock-crystal , containing a bubble repelled by heat .
X 250 diameters .
Pig .
5 .
Six cavities in rock-crystal adjacent to each other .
The bubbles in A and A ' are repelled by heat ; in B , C , and D they are attracted .
These cavities contain water .
E contains liquid carbonic acid only .
X 250 diameters .
Pig .
6 .
Two cavities in rock-crystaL The bubbles contain liquid carbonic acid floating on water .
These bubbles are repelled or attracted by a source of heat according to the temperature of the specimen .
Pig .
7 .
A and B are cavities in felstone , containing liquid carbonic acid and a vibrating bubble .
C , D , and E are diagrams representing the motion of the bubbles under different conditions of temperature .
The following experiments show the conditions under which such attraction takes place .
In a specimen of rock-crystal from which several Mr. W. N. Hartley on Attraction and [ Apr. 123 sections were cut , there was a multitude of cavities , many of considerable size .
They all contained one liquid , water , and what appeared to be a gas-bubble , which was attracted by heat .
A slice of the crystal was mounted between pieces of stout sheet platinum , and so placed on the stage of the microscope that it could be easily taken off and replaced at once in exactly the same position , so that the cavity under observation would be within the focus of the object-glass .
By immersing the specimen in hot mercury , and instantly after removal examining it with the microscope , I ascertained that at 150 ' C. the liquid had just expanded so as to entirely fill the space .
It is evident , then , that little or no gas is present .
It was next necessary to ascertain the lowest temperature of a body by which the bubble could be attracted .
This was accomplished in a most satisfactory manner by selecting a cavity which was plainly visible with a 2-inch objective .
A long test-tube , having a diameter of S of an inch , was filled with water , immersed in which was a fine thermometer .
The tube was heated , and experiments were repeatedly made while it was cooling to find out when it ceased to attract the bubble .
A number of trials showed that at 76 ' C. attraction was powerful , at 71 ' C. it was somewhat feeble , but below this temperature there was no action sufficient to overcome gravitation .
Further experiments were made in a straight tube-like cavity , which from its size and its regularity of shape was exceptionally good for the purpose .
It measured x -10q0q of an inch , and the bubble was of an inch in diameter .
It moved about on change of position as freely as the bubble in a spirit-level .
Proceeding as before , the temperature of the crystal being 16 ' C. and that of the tube 21 ' C. , the bubble could be attracted in a horizontal direction only ; but when the tube was warmed to 60 ' C , its power of attraction was sufficient to overcome the buoyancy of the bubble , and draw it downwards to the extremity of the cavity .
A piece of rock-crystal was examined which contained both water and carbonic-acid cavities in juxtaposition .
These water-bubbles were very easily attracted , as will be seen by the following experiments .
A cavity was chosen with a bubble moving as easily as the bubble in a spirit-level ; its size was x 'f an inch , and the diameter of the bubble ygVff an inch .
" While the section of the crystal was maintained at 16 ' C. a platinum wire was heated in mercury and applied to the cavity , showing the following effects:\#151 ; Temperature of wire .
Effect produced , o 25 ... ... . .
Feeble attraction .
27 .
The same .
29 ... ... ... Strong attraction .
31 ... ... . .
Very strong attraction .
65 ... ... ... Just sufficiently strong to overcome gravitation .
71 ... ... ... Attracted strongly in opposition to gravitation .
, g77 .
] Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
These numbers were confirmed by using the tube of water as a source f heat .
_ I have ascertained by experiment that at very slight elevation beyond be ordinary temperature a plug of water is apparently repelled from the urface of a glass tube .
Mr. Sang has made similar observations .
A capillary tube , open at both ends , had a short column or plug of rater within it , free to move in either direction .
A warm body applied o the liquid repelled it with great force , even in opposition to gravita-ion .
The warmth of the fingers ( in other words , a rise of 21 ' C. ) is quite mfficient to drive the liquid up a tube held in a vertical position .
By tealing water in capillary tubes bubbles are formed which contain very little , if any air ; these are likewise attracted by heat .
When experimenting on the bubbles in natural cavities it was found that an increase of 44 ' to 49 ' C. was required to produce the same effect ; but the fact must be taken into account that the heat was more difficult of application to the rock-section than to the capillary tube .
When the tube approaches ^ of an inch internal diameter , the glass may be heated to redness at a point in close proximity to the water without causing motion ; the water is , however , instantly converted into steam without previous warming , which causes a sort of slight explosion .
If this experiment be made in smaller tubes of inch internal diameter the repulsion is easily caused , and may be seen ; but a very high temperature causes the repelled liquid to be evaporated and scattered in drops at a further distance along the tube .
The liquid is not repelled in a body as a liquid , but gradually as a vapour .
If it had only the space of a bubble to condense itself in , the bubble would be attracted in the same way as carbonic-acid bubbles .
The attraction of bubbles in cavities which contain water may be due to two causes:\#151 ; 1 .
At low temperatures , as , for instance , at 21 ' C. , to a repulsion of the liquid from the glass ; 2 .
At high temperatures , such as 60 ' and 70 ' C. , to evaporation and condensation on opposite sides of the bubble .
The movements of bubbles in Iceland spar noticed by Mr. Sang may thus be explained , for in that substance water-cavities are of constant occurrence .
There is no necessity to assume what seems , from my observations on some hundreds of specimens of Iceland spar , to be highly improbable , namely , that the liquid is carbonic acid .
The mineral is so soft and so easily split along its planes of cleavage , that I doubt whether microscope sections could contain a liquid of such high vapour-tension .
The following rocks contained bubbles in water-cavities which were attracted by heat:\#151 ; Granite from the Moume Mountains ; Aberdeen granite ; quartz from Snowdon ; quartz-porphyry from Pwlheli , North Wales ; granite from Ludgvan and St. Leven , Cornwall .
Many other specimens contained immovable bubbles .
142 Mr. W. N. Hartley on Attraction and [ Apr. 12 The repulsion of bubbles by heat , water being the only liquid present .
With regard to this second point , the repulsion of bubbles by heat It occurs quite as frequently , if , indeed , not more so , in the specimen !
which I have examined , than attraction , and it is seen to occur in cavities containing water and liquid carbonic acid .
( See fig. 4 .
) I have noticed some cavities of a remarkable nature , inasmuch as thej were apparent under similar conditions to those which I have already described , though they behaved in an exactly opposite manner .
They were water-cavities which adjoined others containing both liquid carbonic acid and water .
A blast of warm air , insufficient to vaporize the carbonic acid , is sufficient to propel the gas-bubble to the other end of the cavity .
I next ascertained that five puffs of warm air only just warmed the carbonic acid to the critical point , that is to say , from 16 ' to 31 ' 0 .
I then took a thin bar of copper , and warmed it two degrees above the temperature of the room ; this repelled the bubble easily ; and other trials showed that a rise of temperature of less than | ' C. was quite sufficient .
It was curious to see that when the gas-bubble touched the walls of the cavity at only one point it moved with extraordinary ease and slowly , but otherwise it was more difficult to stir , and it went with rather a sudden jerk .
This subject will be treated more fully later on .
The largest specimen of a bubble readily movable by heat was in a water-cavity in a green crystal of fluor-spar kindly lent me by Mr. James Bryson , of Edinburgh .
The cavity measured T\j- x of an inch , the bubble being of an inch in diameter .
To my surprise , I found it to be easily repelled by a jet of warm air .
The sinking of gas-bubbles by rise of temperature cavities containing water as the only liquid .
In a paper which I have lately communicated to the Chemical Society , I have given details of experiments on certain bubbles in water-cavities , which prove that by rise of temperature the bubbles become denser than the water and sink ( Journal of the Chem. Soc. vol. i. 1877 , p. 245 ) .
When exposed to a uniformly diffused rise of temperature on the microscope-stage the very slow sinking motion of the bubble was remarkable ; as the specimen cooled it returned in the same manner .
In some cases a temperature of 40 ' C. was apparently sufficient ; but several experiments on an exceedingly good cavity , which measures x of an inch , and the bubble in which is of an inch in diameter , fixed the temperature for this specimen at 150 ' C. The cause of this sinking appears to be that the bubble consists of a gas so highly compressed that it is nearly of the same density as water .
On heating the water expands , and the gas is contracted until the relative densities of the two substances are reversed .
Professor Andrews has shown that a mixture of 3 vols .
of carbonic acid with 4 vols .
of nitrogen at 7'*6 C. contracts -g^-T of its original bulk by a pressure of 284 atmospheres .
This j Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
143 lust be a gas with a density of *745 compared with liquid water at nity ; hence , in all probability , at a tension of 400 atmospheres this aseous mixture would be denser than water .
I have elsewhere pointed ut that carbonic-acid gas which was reduced to of its volume by a pressure of 223 atmospheres , at 63 ' 0 .
must have been as dense , if not enser , than water ( Journal of the Chem. Soc. vol. ii .
1876 , p. 250 ) .
Some of those gas-bubbles which I have already mentioned as being eadily attracted by heat , I found were made to sink by warming to about 50 ' C. It is always necessary to rotate or at least reverse the objects when under examination ; and this precaution was always strictly regarded ; o obviate errors of observations .
The importance of this is shown by ; he following experiment .
A bubble in a specimen of rock-crystal was jeen to descend to the lower point of the cavity when it was uniformly leated from above only ; it was found to be attracted by a hot spatula tpplied to one end of the cavity .
It was thought possible that the cavity might have an oblique inclination , and be attracted from the upper end of the cavity , because this motion might bring it nearer the surface where the source of heat was placed .
This was evidently the case , for on turning the slide upside down no motion was caused by uniform heating .
The following experiments were made on some good-sized cavities in rock-crystal .
On presenting a heated wire to one side there was instant attraction , and then the bubbles remained at the bottom of the cavities , after which they settled slowly into their original positions .
A hot spatula was passed over the specimen ; the bubbles went to the bottom and there remained , in spite of the attraction of the hot spatula to the other end ; they then , after cooling slightly , ascended , * but descended again on removal of the spatula , as if jerked back by a spring .
After a time they finally ascended slowly .
This is a curious effect : it seems that the heat , if strong , causes the bubbles to sink , and that the heat of the spatula cannot attract them up until they have cooled somewhat ; that after attraction has drawn them to the upper ends of the cavities , and the source of heat has been removed , they sink once more , and finally take up their original positions after further cooling .
Attraction and repulsion caused by beat in different cavities of the same specimens .
Bubbles attracted by heat and those which are repelled have generally been found in separate and entirely different specimens ; and it would appear most improbable that they should exist in the same piece of stone side by side .
Tig .
5 shows six cavities , which , though not in the same field of the microscope , yet exist within a quarter of an inch square of the same section of rock-crystal .
The cavity marked A !
contains water and liquid carbonic acid , and cavity E contains liquid carbonic acid only ; this might be considered sufficient evidence of other cavities containing a highly com-vol .
xxvi .
n Mr. W. N. Hartley on Attraction and [ Apr. 12 , pressed gas ; actual experiment , however , has proved that the bubbles are spaces left by the contraction of the water on cooling from a high temperature , and therefore contain aqueous vapour and only such gas as may be dissolved in the water .
Some obstruction , probably friction or adhesion of the liquid , caused by the flatness of the cavity , prevents the bubble in A ' from moving freely ; but it is actually repelled , or there is a tendency to repel it , if a wire very strongly heated be brought near .
It is not attracted , however , at any temperature .
When repelled it returns as if squeezed back .
Capillarity makes the bubble assume a spherular form whenever possible ; therefore it returns to such a position as is most compatible with this shape .
Sometimes the motion is not a transference of the bubble from one point to another ; it seems to be fixed , but flattened at one side , and shaken as if something were pushing and trying to move it .
The bubble in A , a deeper cavity , moves very freely and is repelled by heat .
The cavities B , C , D contain bubbles which , curiously enough , are attracted by heat .
Another cavity of irregular shape , and at least four times the size of the largest of these , behaved exactly in the same manner .
As in the other experiments , the objects were frequently turned about in different directions to prevent mistakes .
A series of experiments were made on these cavities to ascertain the precise difference , if any , between them .
The bubble in A was found to have disappeared at 105 ' C. , and it returned immediately on cooling with a sort of jump , which carried it the whole length of the cavity , and made it rebound from the further end .
At 104 ' C. the bubble had not disappeared .
These numbers are the result of sixteen experiments .
The bubbles in the cavities B , C , D did not all behave in the same way .
Thus , from ten experiments at different temperatures , it was found that at 85 ' C. the liquid in C had expanded so as to fill the entire space , at 83 ' C. it had not done so , while D required a temperature of 123 ' C. The liquid in B was apparently unaffected by so slight a rise of temperature , but it was made to fill the cavity at 138 ' C. When heat had been applied so that the bubbles in all the cavities had disappeared , the one in B returned first , that in C generally appeared next , and that in D last .
1 Sometimes , after very strongly heating the specimen , the bubbles in 0 and D did not return for half an hour , though two or three minutes was a period quite sufficient for the specimen to become cooled down .
Sometimes the appearance in the cavity on cooling somewhat resembled the sort of ebullition which occurs when carbonic acid is cooled when at a temperature above its critical point ; the motion , however , of the bubbles was much slower , and occurred in one direction only , except when the bubbles rebounded from the lowest point of the cavities .
The bubble in B does not roll about when the microscope-stage is rotated ; in this respect it differs from those in C and D. Careful $77 .
] Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
cperlments were made with the view of ascertaining the temperature roducing repulsion and attraction respectively in the different cavities : this specimen .
Repulsion to the extreme end of the cavity , entirely in opposition to le effect of gravitation , was produced by a temperature of 5 ' C. above iat of the specimen .
Attraction in opposition to gravitation in cavity \#187 ; became active by a rise of 5 ' 0 .
; in B 14 ' C. were insufficient to do lore than give a lateral motion to the bubble .
On cavity C 12 ' C. acted nergetically .
A series of experiments , were made on bubbles which contained liquid irbonic acid as well as gas .
By heating the specimen above the critical point of the carbonic acid re know something of the conditions under which subsequent experi-lents may be made .
We know that the liquid is water containing a as-bubble under a pressure of not less than 109 atmospheres .
The allowing are facts which , like those preceding , were recorded at the loment of observation .
Fig. 4 represents a cavity in rock-crystal with arbonic acid in the liquid and gaseous states floating upon water .
The ubble is so easily movable that it shifts about like the bubble in a pirit-level .
The stage of the microscope holds the section in a vertical losition , .and when one end of the cavity is raised \ a degree Centigrade a temperature , the bubble is driven to the opposite extremity ; if the pecimen be turned over , this will happen in spite of the buoyancy of he bubble .
The bubble takes up its original position on cooling .
kVhen the specimen is uniformly heated above the critical point of arbonic acid , repulsion by heat still takes place .
I have repeated this experiment during the last twelve months an immense number of times , \gt ; oth with fine jets of warm air and with platinum wires , always with he same result .
Another exactly similar cavity being under examina-ion , heat was applied by means of a hot wire spatula .
When the edge \gt ; f the spatula was seen to approach , there was an instant repulsion \gt ; f the bubble from the upper to the lower end , and the liquid carbonic icid was vaporized .
After removal of the source of heat , the bubble lid not rise ( i.e. apparently sink ) to its original position until after -he liquid had condensed again ; it then slowly moved back .
This experiment was repeated again and again with other bubbles in the same specimen , and notes were made each time to secure a truthful record .
The action in every case was precisely the same ; repulsion occurred , and the bubbles sank under a uniformly diffused rise of temperature .
In another specimen of rock-crystal were seen two cavities , one containing water only , and the other water with carbonic acid ; the bubble in the latter cavity was repelled by heat ( no experiment was made to ascertain whether it sank on warming ) , but that in the water-cavity was attracted .
In order that there might be no possible mistake about this , the two cavities were brought into the field of view at the same time , and the 146 Mr. W. N. Hartley Attraction and [ Apr. 12 , heated spatula approached them both from the same side ; they then instantly darted in opposite directions .
The movements were unaffected by raising the temperature above the critical point of carbonic acid .
It is certainly very perplexing to find two cavities in the same section closely adjacent to each other , and nearly of the same size , the bubbles in which are moved in opposite directions by the same source of heat applied from the same side .
Bubbles containing gas at high tension , under different conditions of ture , are first repelled and then attracted by a heated body .
My work was discontinued for a period of some months ; but on being atffb to look over my specimens once more , I verified all my former observations , and became surprised by the following discovery .
A bubble which was repelled by a gentle heat was attracted after it had been heated more strongly , and then on cooling it was again repelled .
It appeared to contain some liquid carbonic acid floating on water with the gas .
Searching for such other specimens , the cavity , fig. 6 , A , was met with ; it contained a large proportion of liquid carbonic acid , with a little in the gaseous state floating on water , and the bubble is so movable as to act like a spirit-level .
On cautiously applying a warm spatula the bubble was repelled ; on heating it a little more , the liquid carbonic acid became gas , and the bubble was again repelled .
.The spatula was then made almost red-hot and applied ; the bubble was then strongly attracted ; after cooling somewhat it was again repelled .
It was noticed that after the critical point of the carbonic acid had been reached , the bubble sank through the wrater .
It has been shown by the various experiments already related that at only moderate temperatures both repulsion and attraction can occur , Temperature , then , does not directly cause these opposite effects ; it can only be some alteration in the conditions of experiment caused by rise of temperature .
Increase of tension or pressure within the cavity is apparently the only condition which ha$ varied ; and probability that this is the cause of this contradictory attraction is afforded by the following experiment .
The specimen was placed in a water-oven ( the temperature it would there acquire would be about 94 ' C. to 96 ' C. ) ; the platinum spatula was heated in a beaker of oil to 130 ' 0 .
The warm specimen insulated by india-rubber was placed on the microscope-stage , and the warm spatula presented to it , when instant attraction was seen .
The same proceeding was repeated many times , always with the same result .
As the spatula cooled it ceased to affect the bubble at all ; of course at the same time the specimen was also cooling .
The spatula at the temperature of 130 ' C. was applied to the cooled specimen , which was , however , still at a temperature above 30 ' C. ; the effect was repulsion as at first .
This seems to show that the temperature which the rock-crystal attained $77 .
] Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat .
147 a the water-oven , and not that communicated to it by the spatula , caused ttraction .
To ascertain at what temperature attraction became repulsion , and ice versa , the specimen was placed upon a Strieker 's hot stage , and the latinum wire was heated in oil contained in a test-tube .
A succession of experiments yielded the following notes:\#151 ; Temperature of crystal .
Temperature pf wire .
Effeot ou bubble .
40 ' C ... .
lioc ... Eepulsion feeble .
42 ... .
... .
no . . .
11 ** 45 ... .
... .
no ... Neither repulsion nor attraction .
50 ... .
... .
100 . . .
u 11 11 52 ... 100 Feeble attraction .
52 ... . .
, . . .
100 1..*.* , . .
11 11 On another occasion the wire was maintained at 100 ' C. , and a number of experiments gave like results:\#151 ; Temperature of crystal .
Effect on bubble .
42 0 ... ... ... .
Feeble repulsion .
45 ... ... ... Neither attraction nor repulsion .
50 ... ... . .
" )j .\#187 ; 53 ... ... ... Slight attraction .
Above and below these limits attraction and repulsion were feeble .
I next ascertained the critical point of the carbonic acid in this cavity and found it to be as low as 21 ' C. Prof. Andrews kindly informs me that 14 per cent , of nitrogen lowers the critical point of carbonic acid to about 20 ' C. It is by no means unlikely that nitrogen is the gas present in this cavity in something like the same proportion , and that the tension is something very considerable .
It seems to be a matter of great interest to know whether the difference in temperature between the attracting wire and the bubble was so slight as when repulsion occurred ; the specimen was therefore heated on the Strieker 's stage to such a temperature as to ensure attraction by a hotter body .
The following is an account of the experiments .
The bulb of a fine thermometer was often used as the attracting body ; at other times a platinum wire heated in mercury .
Mr. W. N. hartley on Attraction and [ Apr. 12 , Temperatures of crystal .
of attracting body .
Effect on bubble .
450. . . .
73 C .
Eepulsion .
50 ... 83 .
Attraction strong .
50 . . .
78 .
Bubble attracted horizontally .
57 ... 74 .
Attraction against gravitation .
55 ... 65 .
No movement .
55 ... . .
... 75 .
Strong attraction .
60 ... 65 .
No movement .
65 . . .
... . .
75 ... ... . .
Attraction in any direction .
65 . . .
73 ... ... . .
55 55 5*5 65 ... 70 Attraction .
m ... ... . .
69 .
No movement .
67 . . .
... . .
73 ... ... . . .
Attraction .
67 ... ... ..'76 .v .
Attraction strong .
68 ... , 75 Attraction against gravitation .
1 65 . . .
, 72 .
Attraction .
70 ... .
75 .
No movement .
73 ... .
... . .
78 ... ... .
Attraction .
60 ... .
, .V. .
65 Attraction feeble .
Other experiments of the same kind were made on other cavities , which were , however , more difficult to operate on , being smaller in size and of less regular shape .
Temperatures of crystal .
of attracting body .
Effect on bubble .
60 C 130 c .
Neither attraction nor repulsion .
100 ... 180 .
} 100 ... 160 f Very strong attraction against 100 ... 160 | gravitation .
100 100 ... 140 ... 140 1- Somewhat feeble attraction .
100 ... 130 No effect .
Another cavity % 75 ... 140 Very strong attraction .
75 ... 130 Attraction feeble .
60 ... 130 ... ... . .
) 60 ... 125 \gt ; Attraction feeble .
60 ... 125 ) Here let me explain that attraction or repulsion , when expressed as being feeble , should really be understood as causing a slow motion .
It was noticed that bubbles without gaseous contents , which were attracted , 1377 .
] Repulsion of Bubbles by Heat , 149 moved with a uniform motion , and were kept at the further ends of the cavities until an equilibrium in temperature had been established , so that sometimes the liquid had the deceptive appearance of sinking under the rise of temperature .
When gas-bubbles were repelled by heat , their speed appeared to be accelerated after they once commenced to move .
It may be considered an argument against the motions being due to any pyroelectric conditions of the minerals , that they have been noticed in crystals of fluor-spar , and that , no matter in which direction sections of rock-crystal are cut , the movements are all equally well obtained .
Regarding the repulsion of gas-bubbles two facts are striking , namely the very slight rise of temperature ( less than g ' C. ) on one side of the bubble capable of causing the movement , and the great tension existing within the bubble .
Note.\#151 ; Received April 13 , 1877 .
I am much indebted to Prof. Stokes for having furnished an elucidation of the cause of these movements , which is perfectly consistent with all the facts which I have noticed .
In consequence of this I have discarded my own explanations , which were originally embodied in the foregoing paper , but which were never perfectly satisfactory to me .
In notes dated April 7th and 12th Prof. Stokes says :\#151 ; " It seems to me , as far as I can judge without having seen the specimens , that the greater part , if not the whole , of the motions you describe are referable to a cause different from that suggested by Prof. Tait , and that they depend on capillarity .
We know that the surface-tension of a liquid is diminished as the temperature is raised .
The explanation , according to this view , would be very similar to Professor James Thomson 's beautiful explanation of the tears of wine ( Reports of the British Association , 1855 , Report 2 , p. 16 ) , only here difference of temperature takes the place of difference of strength , and the surface of the liquid surrounding a bubble shrinks at the cooler side .
" The shrinkage of the liquid on the cooler side of the bubble of course propels it towards the source of heat .
This explanation seems quite in accordance with all phenomena of attraction of bubbles , whether in carbonic acid or in water , with the movement of water in capillary tubes , and the vibratory movements of minute bubbles described in the next paper .
" In the case of a cavity containing water with a bubble of compressed carbonic acid , the water , of course , containing gas in solution , the repulsion by heat may be accounted for by a slight evaporation of the dissolved gas at the surface .weakening the solution , and thereby increasing the surface-tension ; and it is quite conceivable that at different temperatures one or other of these opposite effects may prevail .
" Conversely , one can understand how different conditions of gaseous tension in bubbles , and the extent to which the surrounding water is charged with gas , may render the effect of heat either repulsion or attraction.\#151 ; W. N. H.

