1891 .
] Temperature and the Refractive Index of Liquids .
343 of ice , found the value 60,000 .
Reusch ( ' Nature , ' vol. 21 , p. 504 ) , by experimenting on the sonorous vibrations of rectangular plates of ice , found Young 's modulus to be 23,632 kilos , per sq .
cm .
( this last method seems rather dangerous ) .
In attempting to devise an imaginary system of strains sufficiently great to render such a recovery as 0'1 cm .
possible , we are soon brought up by the breaking tension of ice .
Direct experiments by Moseley give this as 7 or 8 kilos , per sq .
cm .
, and Kidd and myself found it in one case to be 8-3 kilos , per sq .
cm .
, but the fact that the bar of ice in Exp. ( 11 ) bore the weight of 2*5 kilos , before any plastic strains had taken place brings it out greater than 15*5 kilos , per sq .
cm .
, and the bar in Exp. ( 13 ) was able to endure an even greater stress .
A similar discrepancy has been noticed in the case of cast iron ( Rankine , 'App .
Mechanics , ' S 297 ) .
Using the latitude given by the uncertain values of the constants to the utmost , I have not been able to devise any system of elastic strains which could possibly make the bar rise 0 01 cm .
, and there is no reason to suppose that the unknown system of strains actually occurring in the experiments would be exceptionally well adapted to such a purpose .
I conclude , then , that we have to deal with a real tendency of the forcibly displaced sliding layers to slide back .
The rate of recovery , rapid at first , soon falls off .
Thus in Exp. ( 10 ) there was a recovery of 0*046 mm. in the first 18 minutes , and only 0*021 in the next 58 .
In Exp. ( 15 ) after 0*014 in the first 11 minutes , and the same in the next 31 , the motion probably came to a standstill after a few hours , practically , if not absolutely .
Thus in Exp. ( 12 ) the bar was left with no weight on for 12 hours , and the recovery \#166 ; was only 0*072 mm. I [ Mr. McConnel died suddenly at Davos while engaged on the fore-going paper , which has been printed from his rough copy with some | few alterations of no great importance .
I thought it better to do t is than to attempt to edit it ; though I know from his last letters to me that the author would have himself , if he had lived , been able ' eave it in a more finished state than that in which it now appears .
-R .
T. G. ] On the Effect of Temperature upon the Refractive Index of certain Liquids .
" By W. Cassie , M.A. Communicated oy Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received February 19 , 1 In I jn(j paper " On the Effect of Temperature on the Specific I Uc"ve Capacity of a Dielectric " ( 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , 1890 ) , the T0L- XL1X .
a 344 Temperature and the Refractive Index of Liquids .
[ Mar. 12 , ( values obtained for the temperature-variation of specific inductive f capacity of four of the liquid dielectrics investigated were compared | with the corresponding values of the temperature-variation of refrac- 1 tive index found by Messrs. Dale and Gladstone.* And the relations i between these two quantities , though not in accordance with Clerk Maxwell 's electromagnetic theory of light , were near enough to make it worth while to try whether the divergence from theory might not be due to differences in composition .
Accordingly I measured the rate of change of refractive index with temperature for the same specimens of the liquids as were used in the electrical experiments .
In the case of olive oil , however , the original supply could not be found .
The results obtained are very close to Messrs. Dale and Gladstone 's for those of the liquids they had examined , and for the others the optical effect shows a similar divergence from Maxwell 's theoretical relation .
And considering the enormous difference in the rapidity of the electrical and optical effects , this is not surprising .
The change of refractive index was measured by observing with a j spectrometer the minimum deviation of the D lines for a bottle prism filled with the liquid .
The observations were taken at two tempera-tures , viz. , that of the room , 16 ' or 17 ' 0 .
, and a higher temperature , about 40 ' C. , obtained by heating the prism and its contents in warm water .
The results are shown in the following table , the last column giving the values of Messrs. Dale and Gladstone : Tnrppnt.inft Kate of change per degree centigrade of A - , i Specific inductive capacity .
Kefractive index .
Refractive index ( D and 0 ) .
- '0012 - *004 - *006 - '0006 - -0014 + '0023 - '0003 - -0006 - -0002 - *00037 - *00043 - *00017 _ *00033 - *00018 _ *00037 _ *00042 Da/ rhon bisulphide Glycerine Perizoliinfi Penzine Paraffin .
T ... ... .
In the case of glass , the change of refractive index with tempera ture was found by Stefanf to be O'0000023 per degree centigrade ) \#174 ; | quantity of quite a different order from 0'002 , the rate of change , specific inductive capacity .
And in view of the influence of of charging , even when extremely short , upon the specific indue * Results collected in Watts 's * Diet , of Chem. , ' rol .
3 .
f ' Wien .
, Akad .
Sitzber .
, ' yoI .
63 , Abth .
2 .
1891 .
] On Sensitisers for Rays of Low Ref Tangibility .
capacity of glass revealed by Professor J. J. Thomson 's experiments , * this is only what might be expected .
III .
" On the Bisulphite Compounds of Alizarin-blue and Coerulin as Sensitisers for Rays of Low Refrangibility .
" By George Higgs .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1891 .
The determination of the relative wave-lengths of the Fraunhofer lines , by photographing all the orders of spectra given by any particular grating , includes certain subjects which present more or less difficulty , and that of selecting or producing a dye-bath adapted to the requirements of the two or more orders comprising the subject is intimately connected with that of the choice of absorbing media .
Having been engaged for some time in investigations of this nature , I had occasion , during the summer of 1889 , to require an impression of the 2nd order , about \ 3300 , contiguous with that of the red end of the 1st order , and finding that the ordinate of an actinic curve for a plate immersed in a very dilute alcoholic ammoniacal solution of cyanin ( 1 : 30,000 ) , reduced to about one-fourth of that for an unprepared plate , I abandoned its use for this purpose .
The results appeared to be unaffected by the addition of quinine .
Subsequently , induline , coerulin , alizarin-blue , and the bisulphite compounds of the two latter were used .
When obtained in a state of sufficient purity the alizarin-blue S leaves little or nothing to be desired , for , whilst possessing , in a high degree , sensitising properties for rays throughout the region comprised between A 6200 and 8000 , it does not , like cyanin , lower the sensitiveness to the violet and ultra-violet .
The following is one of the processes I employed in the preparation of the dye-stuff in a pure state :\#151 ; To a saturated solution of sodium bisulphite in a mortar is added alizarin-blue paste .
This is disintegrated with a pestle , and poured iuto a glass vessel capable of holding an additional quantity of sodium isulphite , in all 10 parts of the paste to 20 parts of bisulphite , and another 10 parts of water .
The vessel is well stoppered , set aside in a cool place for five or six weeks , and shaken daily , but left undis-urtted during the last eight or ten days . . .
6 solution is decanted , filtered , and treated with alcohol , to precipitate the greater portion of the remaining sodium bisulphite .
^ parts of water are now added with a sufficiency of sodium chloride orm a concentrated solution .
Again set aside in an open-mouthed * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 46 .

