478 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June 10 Fig. 7 .
Spores in the elongated rods ; a is an example of a single spore formed at one end of each segment of protoplasm .
Fig. 8 .
Various phases of spore ( coccus ) formation in the tubes ; a is an example of spheres in the protoplasm of an unsegmented rod j chains of spores ( or cocci ) , in which remains of the tube , although hardly to be represented clearly in a drawing without exaggerating the appearance , are yet distinctly visible .
In estimating the size of b , it is to be borne in mind that both the spores and the sheath mate up the dimensions as they are shown .
Fig. 9 .
Micrococci or spores set free from scum , which is partly formed by rods in the various phases shown in the preceding figures .
III .
" On the State of Fluids at their Critical Temperatures .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received May 24 , 1880 .
In carrying out the investigations which I commenced some years since upon the phenomena presented by the flow of different liquids through capillary tubes , the question as to what constitutes a liquid\#151 ; that is in what way it differs from a gas , and how the great variance of the microrheometrical laws for the two fluids can be explained\#151 ; again and again presented itself to me .
Seeing that solids are soluble in gases as well as in liquids , one of the chief differences supposed to exist between the two states has disappeared ; and I have been compelled to adopt as the only definition of a liquid , that it is a fluid which has cohesion .
Professor James Thomson , F.R.S. , has suggested to me the use of the term contractility , instead of cohesion , and this term admirably defines the liquid state , but as it suggests ( in a distant way perhaps ) a voluntary power , and is used in connexion with organised structures , I shall retain the term cohesion at present .
We have then the two states of fluids , first , the gaseous , in which the vis viva or heat energy of the molecules has entirely overcome cohesion , or their mutual attraction , and they are prevented from grouping ; and second , the liquid where the attractive power is greater than the vis viva , and the molecules are enabled to group themselves , but still are in sufficient motion to prevent the grouping from being permanent , hence we have cohesion , but no rigidity .
We do not yet know that all solids are not also fluids , as many of them are known to flow , but this may be from other causes , but we know that the solid state is characterised by so much cohesion as to produce more or less rigidity .
The most interesting point in the consideration of a liquid is that at which it approaches to the gaseous state , where its cohesion disappears , and we have what Dr. Andrews has termed the critical point , which is the termination of that property which distinguishes a liquid fluid from a gaseous fluid , or in other words the liquid be1880 .
] State of Fluids at their Critical Temperatures .
comes a gas .
But a question arises .
To observe this disappearance of the cohesion of a liquid , it is requisite that it should have a free surface , and this free surface has till now only been obtained by arranging the pressure that a portion of the fluid is in the gaseous state , and this only occurs at one pressure .
Now , when the temperature of a liquid is raised while it is retained under very great pressure , so that it never has a free surface , but is always retained filling the vessel , does the liquid still lose its cohesion , and become a gas at the same temperature ; or , as the pressure is increased , does the temperature at which the cohesion of the liquid is overcome , also rise ?
In the former case , the limit of the liquid state would be an isotherm , in the latter , a continuation of the boiling line .
To determine which is the object of the work here described .
With proper precautions , the loss of cohesion or capillarity can be noticed very accurately , and the level of the liquid in a fine capillary tube , seen to coincide with the plane surface of the liquid just before the final disappearance of the line of demarcation .
One of the precautions to be taken is to obtain equable temperature , and while in my earlier experiments , X used a double air-bath , and considered this sufficient to obtain good results , I subsequently found that by the use of a triple bath of copper , every trace of irregularity of temperature disappeared , and I obtained results in which the line of division was admirably clear and sharp , and never became broad and hazy as in ordinary experiments .
Another precaution to be taken is to have pure liquids , and this at first sight might appear to be an easy matter , but I find that in transferring a portion of a pure liquid to a tube , the momentary exposure to air , especially in the vicinity of the hands , hydrates the liquid sufficiently to render the line of demarcation rounded , and show a slightly greater refractive power in the lower part of the tube after the critical point has been passed .
In the case of liquefied gases , such as carbon dioxide , ammonia , sulphur dioxide , and nitrous oxide , which are easily dried , the line is beautifully sharp , and the disappearing point easily noted .
Alcohol cohobated over caustic lime for a week and transferred to a tube without contact with air , shows the disappearance of the line with great sharpness , and immediately after no difference in refractive power can be detected between the upper and lower portions .
The least trace of moisture is sufficient to show such a difference .
Whenever I notice any difference between the upper and lower portions after passing the critical point , I attribute it to moisture or other impurity , as careful treatment always removes the difference in density .
In many organic liquids there is always a difference at the critical point , and sometimes before reaching this temperature , they form several layers , each having a different critical point as they seem to give rise on heating to new compounds , or form polymeric compounds having different critical points .
Besides , 480 Mr* J- B- Hannay .
[ june 10\gt ; many organic compounds cannot be entirely freed from impurity ai they retain it even on repeated distillation .
In the following experi-ments , therefore , such organic compounds were never used , and only perfectly anhydrous alcohol , or carbon disulphide , * or gases which can be obtained anhydrous , C02 , S02 , and M3 , being chosen .
The apparatus used for obtaining pressure was that described in a former paper ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " No. 201 , 1880 , " On the Solubility of Solids m Gases " ) .
In order to determine , then , whether increased pressure applied above the critical point , would have the effect of reducing the gas to a liquid , as might easily be supposed , since the rates of expansion of gas and liquid become alike at the critical point , a new form of experiment was resorted to .
It had been noticed that it was easy to determine whether the tube were filled with liquid or gas , by simply reducing the pressure somewhat quickly , when , if there were liquid present , it boiled , while if the contents were entirely gaseous , simple expansion was the result .
The .boiling only takes place when the pressure is reduced so far as to be a little under the va-pour pressure at that temperature , in other words , boiling cannot be observed , unless there exists a free surface , and this free surface cannot be obtained with the liquid alone above the " critical pressure .
" By the introduction of a quantity of hydrogen gas over the liquid , a free surface is obtained at any pressure , and the mixture of hydrogen and alcohol vapour being of so much less density than the alcohol , it remains divided from it by a line of demarcation for some time after the latter is undoubtedly gaseous .
Now , let us see what takes place on lowering the pressure .
When the temperature is even only 1'C .
below the critical point , when the pressure is sufficiently reduced , the alcohol boils , showing that it still has cohesion , but if the temperature be 1 ' above the critical point , the fluid only expands , and no boiling is seen at any pressure , from 50 up to 200 atmospheres .
Here the fluid above the critical point has just as free a surface as below it , and we see that the last trace of the liquid condition has disappeared .
The line dividing the mixture of hydrogen and alcohol vapour from the pure alcohol is quite sharp , for a short time , and on altering the pressure , it moves up and down quite freely , Q.nd possesses exactly the same appearance and properties as hydrogen over carbon dioxide in a bell-jar.f Thus we see that the liquid state seems to come to an end , and the gaseous state to supervene quite independent of pressure .
* Even this , in later experiments , has been found to dissociate slightly .
( June 14 , 1880 .
) 1 " The experiments must be done quickly , before the alcohol has time to dissolve the hydrogen to any great extent , and the temperature must be equal all through the apparatus , otherwise mixture takes place and these phenomena are not seen .
Experiments on mixtures obtained by shaking are in progress , but in these the critical point is much altered .
1880.1 State of Fluids at their Critical Temper atures .
481 There is another mode of experimenting which illustrates this even more strikingly .
A quantity of alcohol with hydrogen over it was raised to a temperature of 228 ' to 230 ' under a pressure of 120 atmospheres , and the pressure and temperature maintained for five hours , when it was seen that the line of demarcation was in the same place , and as sharp as before , and on lowering the pressure , the liquid boiled , showing that it had not mixed with the gas .
The temperature was now raised to 240 ' , and the pressure as before , at 120 atmospheres , and at the end of a quarter of an hour , instead of a sharp line of demarcation there was only a faint , broad indication of a change of density near the middle of the tube , and at the end of an hour all mark of a difference had disappeared , the two gases having mixed .
Doubtless , the mixture was not yet uniform , but it had proceeded sufficiently far to show that the two were miscible .
Here we see plainly , that a few degrees below the critical point , the substance was undoubtedly liquid , and a few degrees above , undoubtedly gaseous .
The experiment was repeated at 200 atmospheres ' pressure , the temperature being 220 ' and 240 ' , with precisely the same result , and I have sinpe repeated it several times .
This shows that the limit of the liquid state depends upon temperature , and not upon pressure .
The method of examining the loss of cohesion of a liquid by means of a capillary tube was also applied at any pressure by the introduction of a permanent gas over the liquid , as in the foregoing experiments .
This was done as follows .
In the working tube of the pressure apparatus A , a small piece of capillary tubing B , was cemented by fusing a minute piece of silicate of soda between it and the side of the tube .
The liquid C , which was in this case carbon disulphide , was placed in the tube over the mercury , and readings taken of the height of the liquid in the capillary tube .
In order that the same liquid should be used in both cases , and the experiments thus rendered strictly comparable , the point of A was broken off , and a quantity of pure dry nitrogen introduced .
Pressure was then applied , and the capillarity noted , the temperature raised , and the result again noted .
The following table illustrates the results obtained .
The capillary heights are arbitrary numbers of the cathetometer : ten experiments were done in each case .
Liquid alone .
Liquid with nitrogen .
Temp. Pressure .
Height .
Temp. Pressure .
Height .
51 ' . .
1 atmos . . .
53*6 . .
51 ' . .
81 atmos . . .
53-2 220 ' . .
63 " . .
12-2 . .
: 220 ' . .
180 " . .
11*9 Probable error of mean ... ... 0*7 " . .
0'2 ... ... ... . .
1"1 , , . .
0'25 The experiments were then pushed up to the critical point when , in both cases , the one at 80 atmospheres and the other at 194 , the capil482 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June 10 larity disappeared .
This again shows that pressure has little or no effect upon the cohesion of a liquid , and that it is reduced to zero at about the same temperature notwithstanding the pressure .
It would appear , then , that the boiling line does not extend beyond the critical point , but that the critical point lies upon an isothermal , which is the limit of the liquid state .
I have examined several liquids and liquefied gases , including C02 , NH3 , S02 , N20 , CS2 , CC14 , Cl , CH40 , C2H10O , and C2H60 , and I find that the capillarity disappears at or near the critical point , and pressure does not cause it to reappear .
I have also measured the rate of decrease of capillarity with temperature , but have not yet had time to reduce the arbitrary readings to actual measurements to find whether or not any systematic relation exists .
I shall bring this work forward at some future time .
I have still another method of examination to bring before the Society .
An apparatus was arranged with the tube for experimenting with the liquid bent at an obtuse angle , as shown in the sketch .
The liquid was contained in the upper part , A , inclosed by the mercury , B ; while the lower part , C , inclosed in the apparatus , was filled with nitrogen or other permanent gas .
On applying pressure the nitrogen is compressed into small space , and by gently tapping the 1880 .
] State of Fluids at their Critical Temperatures .
tube is made to rise to about D , where it rests against the upper side of the slanting part of the tube .
When the temperature and pressure required were reached the tube was gently tapped , when the bubble of nitrogen passed round the bend up into the fluid at A. If the fluid be in the liquid state , the bubble shows a meniscus ; but if the fluid be gaseous , the bubble instantly diffuses into the enclosed space , showing that the fluid has no cohesion or has assumed the gaseous state .
The same results were obtained as before .
When the temperature was below the critical point the contents of the tube were liquid , and when over that temperature the reaction was always gaseous , notwithstanding the variations of pressure .
I think that we have in these experiments evidence that the liquid state ceases at the critical temperature , and that pressure will not materially alter the temperature at which the cohesion limit occurs .
Dr. Andrews has , indeed , indicated his belief that such was the case ; but as far as I am aware , there has been till now no direct experimental proof of the fact .
When the line dividing the fluid from the gas , and the difference in height outside and inside the capillary tube disappear , it cannot be said that this proves the total absence of cohesion , but only that the cohesion of the two portions of the fluid becomes equal ; and it is only if the gas or vapour has no cohesion that we can say that the portion which formed the liquid has none either .
But by the introduction of a third substance , which , when the experiments are done quickly , acts only on one side , it seems , from the results observed , that the condition of the surface of demarcation depends mainly , if not entirely , upon the lower or liquid portion of the fluid .
The critical points of liquids are thus truly the absolute boiling points , as has been aptly said , and are closely comparable to VOL. xxx .
2 M 484 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ June I0r the melting points of solids , which depend almost solely upon temperature , a very great amount of pressure being required to alter them .
The difference between the fluid and gaseous states is not then entirely dependent upon the length of the mean free path , but also-upon the mean velocity of the molecule .
June 14 , 1880 .
IV .
" On the Solubility of Solids in Oases .
II .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor O. .
O. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received May 24 , 1880 .
In a former paper* it was pointed out that a solid dissolved in a liquid was not deposited from solution when the liquid passed through the critical point into the gaseous state , and the conclusion drawn that solids are soluble in gases .
I have shown in another paper f that it is probable that after a liquid passes its critical point it becomes a vapour or gas , and this quite independent of pressure , and that the cohesion limit for any one substance lies more in the direction of an isothermal line than a continuation of the boiling line .
Before , , however , I had carried out that work , I determined to make sure that a truly gaseous state had been reached , and the fluid containing the solid was raised to 150 ' above its critical point , and the gaseous solution expanded to nearly twice its liquid volume , and still the solid remained in solution .
In these circumstances it was found that nonvolatile solids were retained in solution in truly gaseous menstrua .
In the second paper referred to , I have pointed out some of the difficulties which beset such an investigation ; and when it is remembered that only air-baths can be used , the temperature being over 200 ' and sometimes over 800 ' , and that very many liquids dissociate under these temperatures , it will be seen that conclusions should be drawn only from substances perfectly free from suspicion .
All the experiments , therefore , which I have performed in iron tubes cannot bear on a discussion in this matter ; and I shall defer going into the natural minerals formed artificially from aqueous solution at a red-heat till another paper .
For high temperatures glass does not do , as every variety of it is easily decomposed by water ; but by the use of rock crystal blocks I have obtained some results of interest where the action of the water can be seen .
However , I intend in this paper to treat in a fuller manner of work touched upon in former papers .
One of the first pieces of work I set about to finish was to determine whether or not the critical points were altered by the introduction of a solid into solution .
In a former paper it was thought that the critical point of alcohol * " Solubility of Solids in Grases , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " ante , p. 178 .
+ " On the State of Fluids at their Critical Temperatures , " ante , p. 478 .

