the Stomodceumof the .
[ [ June ljj III .
" Ou the Ciliated Groove ( Siphonoglyphe ) in the Stomo-daeum of the Alcyonarians .
" By Sydney J. Hickson , B.A. B.Sc. Assistant to the Linacre Professor , Oxford .
Com- !
municated by Professor Moseley , F.R.S. Received May 23 ' ( Abstract .
) 1 .
In Alcyonium there is a groove lined by remarkably long cilia situated on the ventral side of the stomodaeum .
This groove , which * has already been superficially referred to by O. and R. Hertwig , has important morphological relations in the group Alcyonaria which have not been previously referred to .
I propose to call it the sipho-noglyphe .
x s 2 .
The cilia of the siphonoglyphe , as seen in a living Alcyonium , moving in unison , produce a current from without inwards which !
brings particles of food and fresh streams of water into the canal system of the colony .
The cilia lining the rest of the stomodamm produce currents in an opposite direction , from within outwards .
3 .
A siphonoglyphe , varying in size and in the length of the cilia is present in the same position in all the non-dimorphic Alcyonarians ( without solid calcareous or homy axes ) I have examined , e.g. , Ccelogorgia , Bnareus , Nephthya , Spongodes , Tubipora , Clavularia , Heliopora , \amp ; c. 4 .
Amongst the dimorphic Alcyonarians the siphonoglyphe is usually absent in the autozooids , but well developed in the siphono-zooids .
In Sarcophyton , however , a feebly-developed siphonoglyphe is present in the autozooids in addition to the well-developed ones in the siphonozooids .
5 .
In Primnoa and Villogorgia , the only examples of Alcyona-rians with solid axes I have examined , no siphonoglyphe can be fonnd , and I am inclined to think , from the researches of other observers , and from general considerations , that it is not present in any genera in which the fleshy parts of the colony are represented only by a thin crnst covering solid axes .
6 .
The paper contains some speculations to which I have been led , by these researches , concerning the probable phylogeny of the group , and a diagrammatic arrangement of the Alcyonaria on these lines .
7 .
Finally I propose to divide the Alcyonaria into five principal groups : 1st .
The Proto-Alcyonaria , including only those genera which do not form colonies .
2nd .
The Stolonifera , including the genera Clavularia , Cornularia , Tubipora , \amp ; c " , in which the young colonies spring from a creeping stolon .
3rd .
The Pennatulidse , which remains as heretofore .
4th .
The Gorgonidse , a group which contains only those genera in which there are solid horny or calcareous axes , 883.1 Variations of Latency in certain Skeletal Muscles .
281 ?
nd no siphonoglyphe .
5th .
The Alcyonidae , a large and somewhat Heterogeneous group containing all the remaining genera of the Ucyonaria , which , though exhibiting many wide variations , inter io-ree in possessing no specially marked characters of deviation from j , n ideal central form from which , T suppose , they must have sprung .
; [ Y. \#171 ; On the Variations of Latency in certain Skeletal Muscles i : * of some different Animals .
" By Theodore Cash , M.D. and Gerald F. Yeo , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Sanderson , F.R.S. Received May 29 , 1883 .
In a former paper ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 , p. 462 ) we laid before the Society the results of a series of experiments by which we had endeavoured to ascertain accurately the differences in the duration of the latent period of contraction of skeletal muscle ( frog 's gastrocnemius ) which could be brought about by varying the following influences :\#151 ; 1 .
The weight of load .
2 .
The mode of applying weight ( supported or unsupported ) , 3 .
The strength of stimulation .
4 .
Temperature .
5 .
Fatigue .
i We have since been engaged in determining the relative duration iof the latent periods of different skeletal muscles of vertebrate animals .
Besides several muscles of the Lana temp. , we have examined some from the toad , tortoise , small mammals , and birds .
In this paper , which is intended to be a continuation of the one above referred to , we beg leave to lay before the Society the results of these experiments and our general conclusions .
We know from the works of Pick , * Marey , t Ranvier , J Fredericq , S Richet , || and one of us , ^[ that various muscles in the same animal have a mode of contraction differing more or less from one another , j and adapted to the kind of work , they have to perform .
But in the works of most of these authors little information can be found concerning the variations in the duration of the latent period , in differently contracting muscles , whether those of the same animal or those of different animals .
* Fick , " Irritabelen Sabstanzen .
" \#166 ; f Marey , " Du Mouvements dans les Fonctions de la Vie .
" J Ranvier , " Lemons sir le Systeme Musculaire .
" S Fr6dericq , " Bull , de l'Acad .
roy .
de Belgique , " lvii , No. 6 .
I| Richet , " Physiologic des Muscles , " \amp ; c. TT Cash , Journal of Anat .
and Phys. , " vol. xv .

