67 The Distillation of Binary Mixtures of Metals in Vacuo .
Part I.\#151 ; Isolation of a Compound of Magnesium and Zinc .
By Arthur John Berry , B.A. , Downing College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) A product of the formula AuCd has been isolated by Heycock and Neville* by placing a known quantity of gold , together with a considerable excess of cadmium , in a* hard glass tube exhausted by a mercury pump , and distilling the mixture for five or six hours at a temperature as high as the glass was capable of withstanding .
The composition of the non-volatile residue always approximated closely to that required by the formula AuCd , and the authors concluded that the product was a definite inter-metallic compound .
It would appear , however , from the work of Vogel , f that these two metals are capable of forming the compounds Au4Cd3 and AuCd3 .
The compound Au4Cd3 forms a series of solid solutions with cadmium , and this author concludes that the product AuCd isolated by Heycock and Neville " durfte daher als ein kadmium-reicherer Mischkristall der Verbindung Au4Cd3 aus der Reihe Be , seine Zusainmensetzung als eine zufallige zu betrachten sein .
, ,J At the suggestion of Mr. Heycock , the author has commenced a general investigation of the distillation of binary mixtures of metals , one of which at least is readily volatile , in order to ascertain if this method is of general applicability as a means of isolating inter-metallic compounds .
It would appear a priori that the success or failure of such a method will depend upon two factors .
Firstly , the dissociation pressure of the inter-metallic compound must be practically nil at the temperature at which the .distillation is effected ; and , secondly , the partial pressure of the vapour of the more volatile constituent must fall suddenly at the composition of the alloy corresponding to the formula of the compound .
Heycock and Neville S found that , in order to ensure success in the isolation of the product of minimum vapour pressure , it was necessary to exhaust the tube very thoroughly .
This circumstance is probably due to the fact that it is only in fairly high vacua that the viscosity of the residual gas is sufficiently reduced to enable the heavy metallic vapour to diffuse away from the heated part of the tube at a moderate velocity .
* * Trans. Chem. Soc.,51892 , vol. 61 , p. 914 .
t ' Zeitsch .
anorg .
Chem.,5 1906 , vol. 48 , p. 333 .
X Loc .
citp .
341 .
S Loc .
cit. F 2 Mr. A. J. Berry .
The Distillation of [ Oct. 24 , The fact that the " volatilisation point " of a number of metals is greatly reduced at very low pressures appears to have been first observed by Demarcjay.* More recently Krafftf has investigated the phenomena of vaporisation and boiling of metals in a cathode-ray vacuum .
Krafft and BergfeldJ have determined the lowest temperatures at which volatilisation of metals in a cathode-ray vacuum just takes place , and have substantially verified Dema^ay 's observations , especially as regards the volatility of cadmium and zinc .
Experimental .
Grube , S as the result of an investigation of the freezing-point curve of mixtures of magnesium and zinc , has demonstrated the existence of a definite compound of the formula MgZn2 .
This compound is further characterised by the fact that it does not form solid solutions with either of its constituents .
With the object of isolating the compound MgZn2 by distillation from an alloy containing excess of the more volatile metal , the following procedure was adopted .
The magnesium together with an excess of zinc was placed in a Jena glass tube closed at one end , and bent near the middle at a very obtuse angle as in Heycock and Neville 's experiments.|| The open end of the tube was constricted to facilitate sealing off , and connected by a T-piece to a bulb of cocoanut charcoal , and to a good water pump.1T The whole apparatus was constructed of Jena glass .
During the preliminary exhaustion by the water pump , the apparatus was thoroughly heated .
The connection with the water pump was then sealed off and the charcoal cooled by liquid air .
After about half an hour the tube was sealed off .
The tube was then transferred to a horizontal furnace and arranged in such a manner as to allow the distillate to condense and separate from the residual alloy .
The tube was heated for six or seven hours , and the zinc in the residual alloy determined volumetrically by potassium ferrocyanide solution , uranyl acetate being employed as indicator .
An experimental difficulty which was encountered in the present work was the reducing action of magnesium on the siliceous matter of the glass .
The * ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1882 , vol. 95 , p. 183 .
t 'Deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
Berichte , ' 1903 , vol , 36 , p. 1690 .
X Ibid. ) 1905 , vol. 38 , p. 254 .
S ' Zeitsch .
anorg .
Chem.,5 1906 , vol. 49 , p. 77 .
|| Loc .
cit. IT With the exception of one experiment ( described below ) , in which the tube was exhausted by a Topler pump , all the experiments were carried out in the manner described above , viz. , preliminary exhaustion by the water pump and subsequent exhaustion by charcoal cooled in liquid air .
1911 .
] Binary Mixtures of Metals* in Vacuo .
distillation was conducted at a relatively low temperature , but it was found that the glass was attacked even at temperatures below the melting point of magnesium , the interior surface becoming coated with a black deposit .
This deposit was shown to consist , in part at any rate , of magnesium silicide , since it was found to be soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid with evolution of the spontaneously inflammable silicon hydride .
The residual ingot was invariably contaminated with silicon , but this element was not determined quantitatively .
The percentage of zinc in the product , which was found to agree with that calculated for the formula MgZn2 , was considered to be a sufficient criterion that the isolation of the inter-metallic compound had been effected .
Results .
( 1 ) A mixture of 1*42 grm. of magnesium and 14grm .
of zinc was sealed up in a tube .
In this particular experiment the tube was exhausted by the Topler pump .
After distillation of the mixture for several hours two portions of the residue were taken for analysis , with the following results :\#151 ; ( a ) 1*433 grm. of the alloy were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the liquid diluted to 200 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 17*1 c.c. of standard potassium ferrocyanide solution ( 1 c.c. of K4Fe(CN)e = 0*00696 grm. of zinc ) .
Found Zn = 83*0 per cent. ( 'b ) 0*797 grm. of the alloy was dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the liquid diluted to 100 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 19*4 c.c. of standard K4Fe(CN)6 solution .
Found Zn = 84*9 per cent. MgZn2 requires Zn = 84*5 per cent. ( 2 ) A mixture of magnesium and zinc in equivalent proportions , ^ .
, !
atom of magnesium and 2 atoms of zinc , was sealed up in a tube exhausted by cold charcoal , and distilled for several hours .
A small quantity of zinc was volatilised and a little magnesium interacted with the glass .
Three portions of the residue were taken for determination of the zinc-content , with the following results :\#151 ; ( a ) 0*731 grm. of the residue was dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the liquid diluted to 100 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 17*8 c.c. of standard K4Fe(CN)6 solution ( 1 c.c. of standard K4Fe ( CN)6 = 0*007 grm. of zinc ) .
Found Zn = 85*2 per cent. ( b ) 1*0944 grm. of the alloy was dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the liquid diluted to 100 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 26*3 c.c. of standard K4Fe ( CN)6 solution .
Found Zn = 84*1 per cent. ( c ) 0*6546 grm. of the alloy was dissolved in hydrochloric acid , and the liquid diluted to 100 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 15*8 c.c. of standard K4Fe ( CN)6 solution .
Found Zn = 84*6 per cent. Mr. A. J. Berry .
The Distillation of [ Oct. 24 , We may conclude , therefore , that the alloy of minimum vapour pressure is the definite compound MgZn2 , which is quite stable under the conditions so far investigated .
( 3 ) In one particular experiment in which a mixture of magnesium with an excess of zinc was distilled it was observed that a highly crystalline mass was deposited on the part of the tube which had been uppermost in the furnace at a short distance from the heated end .
On analysis it was found that the zinc content was 84*9 per cent. The excess of zinc was condensed near the cold end of the tube , as in other experiments .
It thus appeared probable that distillation of the inter-metallic compound from the lower ( hotter ) to the upper ( colder ) part of the tube had taken place .
The fact that the excess of zinc had separated to a greater distance is doubtless due to its greater volatility , and also to the relatively low density of its monatomic molecule .
The fact that the compound MgZn2 can be distilled without decomposition was proved in the following manner:\#151 ; ( 4 ) The residue from experiment ( 2 ) , weighing 11 grm. , was sealed up in a tube exhausted by cold charcoal .
A piece of loosely fitting iron pipe was employed to surround the part of the tube exposed to the heat of the furnace , with the object of heating the upper part of the tube to approximately the same temperature as the lower .
Distillation was allowed to proceed for between five and six hours .
At the end of this time practically the whole of the alloy had condensed just beyond the heated part of the tube , a small quantity of zinc had volatilised to a greater distance , and the interior of the heated part of the tube was , as usual , coated with magnesjum silicide .
The temperature at which this particular distillation was carried out was somewhat higher than in other experiments , inasmuch as the glass collapsed to a slight extent .
The distillate was analysed by titration of the zinc with sodium sulphide solution , sodium nitroprusside being employed as an external indicator .
In this work it was found that in some cases the end-point in titrating zinc by potassium ferrocyanide was obscured by the appearance of a bluish colour in the liquid .
Possibly a trace of iron may have found its way into the alloy from the glass in which the reaction mixture was heated .
No such difficulty occurred when the zinc was titrated with sodium sulphide , the endpoint with sodium nitroprusside being quite satisfactory .
Analysis of the Distillate .
\ ( a ) 1*893 grm. of the distillate were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the liquid diluted to 200 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 32*35 c.c. of sodium sulphide ( 1 c.c. = 0*005 grm. Zn ) .
Found Zn = 85*2 per cent. 1911 .
] Binary Mixtures of Metah in Vacuo .
( b ) 1*5735 grm. of the distillate were dissolved in hydrochloric acid and the liquid diluted to 200 c.c. 20 c.c. of this solution required 26*7 c.c. of sodium sulphide .
Found Zn = 84*8 per cent. The conclusion is therefore inevitable that the compound has been distilled unchanged .
It is true that the compound has not been obtained in a perfectly pure condition , being invariably contaminated with traces of silicon , but this in no way invalidates the conclusion arrived at .
This constitutes , so far as the present writer is aware , the first recorded example of an inter-metallic compound which has been distilled without decomposition .
Experiments on other pairs of metals will doubtless lead to results of interest .
The number of pairs of metals , one of which at least is readily volatile , which are capable of giving rise to a single compound only is , however , very small .
The most numerous series are those of varying degrees of complexity in which a number of inter-metallic compounds are formed .
In many cases , too , the systems are complicated with the formation of solid solutions .
Various refinements will probably be required in the experimental methods , and , in particular , it is intended to conduct the distillations in an electric furnace , with a view to regulating the temperature as accurately as possible .
The author desires to express his cordial thanks to Mr. Heycock for the great interest he has taken in these experiments and for his valuable suggestions .

