146 Lord Rayleigh .
Constant of Electromagnetic [ June 19 , examples how by the use of the silver voltameter the E.M.F. of any cell can be found without muoh difficulty , and with scarcely any special appliances .
XI .
" Preliminary Note on the Constant of Electromagnetic Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon .
" By Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. Received June 18 , 1884 .
In connexion with other work upon current measurement by Mrs. Sidgwick and myself , we have endeavoured to determine the value of this constant , so as to decide between the very discrepant results arrived at by Gordon* and by H. Becquerel.f The method adopted by us was so far similar to that of Gordon that the tube of bisulphide of carbon was placed inside a helix , but the value of the current traversing the helix was determined in a different manner without reference to terrestrial magnetism .
The light employed was that emitted by sodium .
When it is remembered that the effect would vary about two parts per thousand in passing from one sodium line to the other , the importance of definiteness in this respect will be obvious .
The number of turns in the helix is 3684 , and the insulation was submitted to severe tests .
In carrying out the measurements the principal difficulty encountered was from optical disturbance arising from the communication of heat from the helix to the bisulphide .
Not only does the mean temperature of the bisulphide rise somewhat rapidly during a series of experiments , but on account of the tendency of the warmer parts to find their way to the top of the tube , the light is sensibly diverted from its proper course .
It is believed that by a modification of the apparatus about to be tried , this source of embarrassment will be materially checked .
The plane of polarisation was determined in some experiments by a Nicol read in two positions , and in others by a double image prism read in four positions .
The adjustment of the match between the two parts of the field presented by the half-shade apparatus was facilitated by a device that may be found useful .
In addition to the principal helix , the tube was embraced by an auxiliary coil of insulated wire , through which could be led the current from a Leclanche cell .
This current was controlled by a reversing key under the hand of the observer , who was thus able to rock the plane of polarisation backwards and forwards through a small angle about * " Phil. Trans. , " 1877 .
f " Ann. d. Chim .
, " 1882 .
1884 .
] Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon .
147 its normal position .
The amount of the rocking being suitably chosen , the comparison of the three appearances ( two with auxiliary current and one without ) serves to exclude some imperfect matches that might otherwise have been allowed to pass .
On fifteen days sets of observations have been taken of the double rotation produced by the reversal of the current in the helix on light which traversed the tube three times .
The double rotations varied from about 9 ' to 19 ' , and the currents from about ^ ampere to 1 ampere .
Reduced to correspond with a certain standard current , and corrected for temperature by Bichat 's formula to 18 ' 0 .
, the double rotations ranged from 1124*1 minutes to 1132 2 minutes .
The mean for 18 ' 0 .
is 1128*4 minutes ; and as this was about the actual mean temperature of the observations , the result is nearly independent of Bichat 's formula for the dependence of the effect upon temperature .
Four sets of observations were also taken on light which traversed the tube but once .
Multiplied by 3 , and reduced to the same temperature and current , the mean of these gives 1127*4 minutes .
Tn this case the current actually used was about 1^ ampere , and the double rotation about 9 ' .
Taking both series of experiments into account , we may adopt 1128*0 minutes as the sixfold rotation at 18 ' C. due to the passage of the standard current through the helix , Tn C.Gr .
S. measure the value of the standard current is *09722 .
The difference of magnetic potentials at points at infinity on the axis of the helix traversed by this current is 4ttX 3684 x *09722 .
The correcting factor on account of the finite length of the tube is *99449 .
Hence if x be the rotation in minutes at 18 ' C. , corresponding to a difference of potential equal to unity , we have 1128*0=6 x *09722 x 4tt x 3684 x *99449 x whence x= *042002 minute .
M. Becquerel gives as his result for 0 ' C. *0463 minute .
To find the rotation at 18 ' , this must be multiplied by *9767 according to Bichat 's formula : and as Becquerel 's observations were in fact made at about 18 ' , this reduction does not introduce , but rather removes , an extraneous element .
Thus according to Becquerel\#151 ; \#174 ; =*0452 minute , differing by about 7 per cent , from the value found by us .
L 2 148 Dr. A. .
B. Garrod .
Certain Points in [ June 19 , The comparison with Gordon is more uncertain , inasmuch as his observations were made on light of the refrangibility of the thallium line .
The corrected* result for this light is in circular measure 1*5238 xlO~5 , or *05238 minute .
To pass to sodium we may use a formula given by Becqnerelf and Verdet according to which the rotation for different wave-lengths ( A. ) is proportional to \#151 ; 1)\-* n being the refractive index .
At this rate the *05238 minute for thallium would be *04163 minute for sodium .
The temperature was not directly observed by Gordon , but was estimated to be about 13 ' C. Assuming this to be correct , the value for 18 ' would be *0413 minute , or about 2 per cent , less than according to my determinations .
XII .
" Certain Points in connexion with , the Physiology* of Uric Acid , " ( Supplemental .
) By Alfred Baring Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 19 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) One of the objects of the present paper is the correction of an error of interpretation in the author 's communication of February 15th , 1883 .
Another object is to make known certain facts which he has ascertained in seeking to correct the same .
The author hopes , 1st , to give a true explanation of the phenomena previously misinterpreted ; 2ndly , to make known some facts hitherto unknown , whence arose the error in question ; and 3rdly , to show the existence of certain peculiarities in the urine of herbivorous mammals , with regard to uric acid , which peculiarities the author anticipated , so that he was led to undertake numerous experiments and observations with the object of verifying or disproving such anticipations .
The subject discussed in Part I is the influence of alkaline carbonates upon uric acid .
Many experiments are detailed , and , as a result it is found that weak solutions of the alkaline carbonates , when exposed to the air , possess the power of decomposing uric acid in solution , and that oxalic acid and urea are among the products of the decomposition .
By the .
recognition of this fact certain physiological phenomena in relation to the urine can be explained .
Part II is devoted to the demonstration of the action of glycocine ( glycocoll ) and a few other substances in protecting uric acid from * Mr. Gordon 's result was originally given at double its proper value , f " Ann. d. China .
, " t. xii , 1877 , p. 78 .

