]\gt ; Dr. J. Monckman .
The Specific " " The Specific Resistance and other Properties of Sulphur By JAMES MONCKMAN , D.Sc .
Communicated by Professol J. J. THObJSON , F.B.S. Received November December 6 , 1888 .
Resistance .
It is well known that sulphur in a solid state insulates elecbcity very high potential , and conducts heat badly ; also that it nndergoes a curious series of changes when heated\mdash ; meIting at about C. , becoming thicker at 20 to , more liquid at to , and boiling under atmospheric pressure at .
During the past three lerms I have been engaged in the Cavendish Laboratory in trying to determine whether these changes are accompanied by corresponding ones in the electrical resistance and other properties of the element .
I expected that the ( jhanges would be within the limits of an insulating body , hence my first experiment was designed to test the insulating power for frictional electricity .
Two platinum wires were placed in a beaker of melted sulphur at a distance of about 1 cm .
apart , one connected to an electroscope , the other to earth .
When the sulphur became solid the leaves of the electroscope remained open on charging for a considerable time , but fell at once if any portion of the sulphur between the was liquid .
To avoid all discharging by the flame used in melting the sulphur , the platinum wires were fixed to an ebonitc rod at the proper apart .
After melting the sulphur the flame was removed to a distance and the wires placed in the liquid .
The discharge complete and , apparently , as sudden as wlJon contact was made with a wire .
The same experiment was with paraffin , and the discharge found to be very slow .
Seeing then that the resistance was removed by melting the sulphur into the region of conductors , it became necessary to find soms method that could be used of very high resistance .
At Mr. Glazebrook 's suggestion I tried placing the wires in melted sulphur in circuit with a high resistance galvanometer and a set of accumulators giving a total electromotive force of 60 volts .
With platinum wires in the sulphur no rehable resuIts could be obtained as the current quickly fell away .
While thus ngaged my attention was directed to a paper by M. Duter ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 106 , 1888 , p. 836 ) , in which he describes some experiments on boiling stllphur .
Platinum he found to be attacked by the sulphur , but gold gave good results ; measurements were , however , given .
Following 's plan I used sistance and other Properties of Sulphur .
gold electrodes , but failed to get a steady CUl.ren to pass ; neither did ordinal'y carbon plates answer any better .
Having some graphite rods which had been procured from arth and Hayes , Kesvvick , some experiments on , I tried two of tlJem , and obtained a perfectly constant flow of electricity even at the boiling point .
The change in the resistance between melting point and boiling point was so that it was difficult to arrange a method that would give reliable readings .
In Cavendish Laboratory , where this work was done , we have a set accumulator cells which when charged give a potential of about 60 volts .
This is conducted to all the rooms , is so that we can use any number of cells , so that we vary the potential from 60 volts to about volts .
When the sulphur was melted 60 volts gave a defiection with a reflecting galvanometer of 11,770 ohms resistance of only half a millime .
on the scale , while at C. one cell gave a deflection of 60 mm. By changing the number of cells , and .
the potential by a Thomson 's graded voltmetel at each , the results given in the following tables were obtained .
The graphite rods were cal.efully sulated from each othcl by glass tubes , which pieces of tube of unequal vere placed , and fixed with plaster of Paris , the object to as much insulating surface as possible .
A cell of placed around the projecting part of the graphite rods to ender the path of the current fairly parallel ; the ends left open to ] free access of sulphur and to prevent vapour taking the place of liquid when ebullition commenced .
The form of mica cell was presel.ved by an outer cell of the figure , , A the aphite rods , lass tubos , Resistance and other Properties of Sulphur .
the vaJue of each scale division is milliampere of current passing per second .
Hence since we get\mdash ; ampere ohms .
Specific resistance 5,600,000 , or ohms at 44 ; at 26 it is neal .
lie 1000 times that number , or Roll sulphur gives the same resistance at , that is , ; while at 44 it is one-third precipitated sulphur , or The accompanying curve shows the conductivity of precipitated sulphur .
At C. there appears a sharp bend in the line .
Up to that point the conductivity rises to , becoming 51 in the next after which it rises rapidly .
This bend coincides ] with the second fluid state , and probably indicatef ; some molecular change which appears to produce similar irregularities in its other properties .
The first of these tested was the effect of pressul.e upon the boiling poinl .
The appaTatus used is given the next diagram , the sulphur placed in the space , whilst the larger spaces , and also , were surrounded with sheet asbestos to prevent rapid adiation .
The tubc A was connected with an air-pump and mercury gauge .
When sulphur in was heated , on austing the air the first time there was a violent evolution of gas at C. if the pressure was 23 cm .
; but if the air was withdrawn until the registered 1 mm. , this ebullition took place at C. This escape of Resistance and of Sulphur .
namely , .
There appears the same change at as in the previous curve which it closely resembles .
At one time I thought that sulphur might be added to the list of bodies given by Ramsay and Young in their paper on " " Evaporation and Dissociation\ldquo ; ( ' Phil. Trans 1884 , p. 461 ) as a means of obtaining of temperature above } up to .
The chief difficulty arises from the overheating , before mentioned , and the danger of breaking a of solid sulphur on .
The first can be avoided by carefully heating , and the secolld is much educed when the sulphur is allowed to solidifyunder much diminished pressure .
The two curves given above are so nearly identical that one naturally suspects hat the former is produced by the increased mobility indicated by the latter , and that if the measurements for resistance were taken at each when the liquid was under pressure so diminished that ebullition took place , the mechanical agitation of the particles would produce a decrease of the resistance in Ation to that due to the temperature , and carx off the charge somewhat after the manner of air and a pointed conductor in electricity of high potential .
That this was not so was proved by raphite rods in the vessel used for the last .
After cxhausting to expel the gas measurements were at valious temperatures ; in one set the sulphur boiled under diminished pressure , in the other set the air was admitted .
No difl'erence could be detected .
142 Dr. J. .
The Specific bottls from the difficu ] of preserving the bottle on remelting the sulphur , a tube was used shown in the figul.e at A. The capacity of the bulb was cm .
The second vessel contained sufficient mercury to cover the bulb of , and the stem to the point to which the sulphur rose on heating .
The bulb was filled with sulphur , and the whole of it kept beneath the surface of the mercury except when a reading was taken .
several series of expeliments the was prepared .
Chemical Affinity .
If the changes previously noticed are produced by some change in the molecules of the element , it will probably show itself in the action of sulphur when strips of metal are exposed to its attack .
We know that some metals are acted upon at ordinary temperatures in a slight degree , and with incrcased energy as the temperature rises .
Others do nob appear to be changed until a high point .
It therefore appeared probable that by carefully watching strips of different metals exposed to sulphur at various temperatures , it might be discovered whethel there was any point of sudden increase , and if so what relation it bore to the curves already obtained .
A test tube was used for the sulphur , and strip or piece of the metal having been placed in it , the tube was immersed in heated mercury .
Temperature . .
After expelling all the air by a stream of coal-gas , sodium was dropped in .
Took fire .
Heated four with occasional shaking .
, Cu , and Pb slowly attacked .
, Zn , and Sn not .
245 to Hg formed a dark malleable mass , filled with globules of the metal .
Cu more readily acted on .
Resistanc and other Properfies of Sulphur .
Temperature .
290 to Cu almost eaten away .
Pb as before .
Mg , Zn , and Sn not attacked .
Again pieces of copper , of equal sizes and weights , from the same sheet .
After having been carefully cleaned and they were exposed to sulphur at different temperatures for 15 minutes , after which they were carefully cleaned and -weighed .
The last column gives the increase of temperature due the union of the copper and the sulphur .
It occurred two minutes after the cold copper was introduced .
At first there was a fall of in the two first experiments , and in the last ; this was followed by a rise .
The lamp was withdrawn when the temperature rose to that at which the experiment commenced .
At the end of two minutes the rise in the fourth line was observed .
It appears , therefore , that there is a gradually .
action up to , or about that , and above that a considerable increase .
The point of in resistance , , appears to be one of considerable importance , ying also the fluidity , point , and chemical , \amp ; c. Action of Light on Sulphur .
That the metals of same group in the arrangement according to the Periodic Law have properties in common is well known .
Thus chlorine , bromine , and iodine belong to the same group , and in many respects very similar bodies .
Sulphur belongs not only to same group as selenium , but is the next element in front of it .
Naturally , therefore , we expcct that they will lJave properties in common , and possibly the action of lighb in the case of selenium may be hared in an inferior degree by sulphur .
This appears more probable from the -known fact that a saturated solution of sulphur bisulphide of is elldered turbid by direct , part of the sulphur being changed and becoming insoluble in that liquid .
A tion of the sulphur the same when exposed to a high tempel.atul.e .
In that the sulphur used in the experiment might be as sensitive as possible to light , it appeared desirable Dr. J. Monckman .
The Specific that llly pure soluble sulphur should be used , and great care should be taken not to raise the temperature in mslting it so high as to produce any of the insoluble modification .
Two graphite rods were placed parallel to each other , the one proiecting about an inch at one end , the othel ' at the other end .
The edges were turned towards each other , as shown in the figure , leaving a space one millimetre , which was filled with melted sulphur .
This was levelled off with a hot iron to make the porb on between the corners as thin as possible .
When one of the projecting ends was placed in contact with a charged electroscope , the other being to earth , the charge fell more quickly illuminated , on the as 5 is to 4 .
As little reliance can be placed on these experiments , a quadrant electrometer was charged , and tlJe graphite rods , separated by sulphur , inserted between the binding screws , so that the negative quadrant was connected with the positive one rough the sulphur cm .
long , 1 mm. thick , and 1 mm. broad ) .
The ometer was charged to the same potential in each experiment in a series and allowed to run down for a certain time .
Sunwas allowed to fall on the sulphur , but shaded from the rest of the when mot required the ordinary window blind was drawn down .
Of course the electrometer and sulphur were protected from induction by surrounding by wire screens .
The following three series of readings were taken on different days , and in one or two cases clouds interfered with the experiment , especially in No. 8 , when the light was considerably shaded by cloud .
Resistance and other Properties of , Sulphur .
The first and second series were alternated dark and light in the same set of experiments to see that no permanent prodnced and mistaken for the effect sought .
In the first the time varied and the deflections were allowed to fall the same ce ; in all the others the time was the same and the ffill varied .
The method of performing the experiments made it possible that the effect might be produced by the heat of the sun and not by the light .
The variation in temperature on a delicate thermometer was about C. To eliminate the effect of heat , a long series of observations was made in the dark , whilst the temperature was raised slightly by placing a Bunsen flame 4 or 5 inches away from the screen protecting the sulphur , and the heat radiated by placing iron spiral it , then one of copper , and lastly fine clay the .
The of temperature was C. to C. in first ten experiments , which the heated ones fell rather more slowly than those at a lower temperature .
In the next seven observations the was C. to C. , the fall exactly the same in each .
yet remained the possibility tha \fnof ; gCthe ht on ires which held the rods caused the charge to into the .
When , howevel , the sulphur was relnoved , the effect produced by the light on the portions of wire to its influence was too small to produce any in the rate of fadl .
Hence it that selenium is the body most sensive to the action of light , it shares its propel .
tie with bbours , the three elements ( constituting the same group ) , sulphur , selcnium , tellurium , are all similarly acted upon , { urnishing another example Dr. J. Monckman .
The Specific of the importance and beauty of the law which classified them together .
During the course of this work I have often consulted Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. , and received many valuable suggestions and some corrections , for which I desire to acknowledge my obligation .
Addendum .
May 22 , 1889 .
It having been suggested that the passage of the current at high temperatures through roll and precipitated sulphur was caused by the presence of rities , and not by any change the properties of the sulphur itself , some of the impurities distil over with the element , especial .uric acid , compounds of mercury and ] enlum .
' whose presence woul quite sufficient to account for the effects given specimens used in the previous experiments , it was necessary to btain the ptossi } specimens of sulpbur , and with this ' object no pains have been spared .
As there also arose the question whether a liquid , being neither a metal nor an electrolyte , could conduct an electric current , it appeared to be preferable to try various methods of purification , and to compare th results obtained .
To make this comparison more valuable , the methods should not be simply variations of the one system , but proceed upon distinct lines , so that any impurities , left after all possible care had been used , should be different in the diiferent specimens , and in the measuremenhs there would the eflects due to distinct bodies , and if so , give some indication of the presence , in one or other of the port ons used , of some foreign body changing the electric properties of the melted sulphur differently the cases in which that body could not possibly 0CCU11 .
Three methods of purificat on were mployed : , soIution , crystallisation , and distillation ; 2nd , distillation , without solution , in an atmosphere intended to remove hydrogen compounds ; 3rd ( pure soluble bodies only wore used , easily tested chemically ) , precipitation , washing with water , and distillation .
In numbers 1 and 2 , foreign bodies acting upon sulphur were added and afterwards removed ; they were diffcrent bodies , and if not perfectly removed might be expected to change the conductivity accordndividual ro erties .
In number 3 no suc bod ing to own ua prop was in troduced .
Consequently , if 1 , 2 , and 3 vere a like in their l.esistances at various temperatures , it must arise from changes in the one body common to all three , namely , sulphur .
Before giving further of these three methods , ds I wish to descril)iments undertaken to prevent the electro es an des and the containing vessels from the liquid ilfter it had been ified .
Resistance and Properties of Sulphur .
In the course of the work it was found that the vessels in which sulphur was boiled for any length of bime were attacked .
Ordinar test-tubes invariably gave way , coated internally thin black film , which remained fixed to the glass .
Ordinary tubes and glazed porcelain under the same circumstances showed a number of dark spots , which proved to be sulphide of iron ; even combustion-tubing did the same thing .
All these experiments had been made with the flame of a bunsell lnmp acting directly upoIl the vessel the sulphur , and it appears that no material will resisb the attack of that body nder such conditions .
It seems to be caused by Qver-heating a portion of the vessel from which ) the liquid has been separated by the vapour , when bubbles are formed .
When liquid falls back npon this overheated surface , chemical action commences .
Further experiment , however , showed that when combustion-tubing , or retorts of Bohemian glass , are protected from the direct action of the flame , sulphur may be boiled or distilled in them without any action whatever taking place .
Investigations were made on the nature of the electrodes , by 1neans of which a curre1lt could be made to pass through sulphur , upon the best form to be used to avoid chemical action .
In the previous work I used ordinary thin pla , tinum wire , and failed to get current to pass .
In this experiment I used wire of one millimetre diameter , which had been exposed to great heat for a considerable length of time , and found that the current passed readil .
The same thing took place when some thin , very hard , carbon rods substituted for the platinum .
The liquid was , however , dirtied by particles of carbon torn away from the rods , and consequently 1 have not considered the numbers obtained worthy of being recorded , but simply the fact that with hard carbon rods for electrodes , sulphu ] conduct ; probably electric lamp filaments may prove .
enough to resist disintegration , if not too thin for the purpose .
To test the eifect of sulphur upon the electrodes , the containing vessel was placed in a second one , half filled with mercury , which was kept boiling several hours : .
this produced a steady temperature of .
The platinum electrodes wel.e immersed in the liquid , and after allowing them to remain undisturbed until the whole mass had nssumed the proper temperature , measurements were taken at stated intervals .
The method was to use a steady electromotive force , sulphur in circuit , and high resistance galvanometer .
The nnmbers given below show a conductivity increasing with the time of contact betweeu the odes and the hot sulphur .
After the experiment I found that the platinum was considerably discoloured .
Dr. J. Monckman .
Specific Table showing the action of Heated Sulphur upon Platinum Eloctrodes .
Lastly , the same graphite rods were used as in the previous experiments .
These electrodes had been repeatedly exposed to high temperatures , and also boiled many times in sulphur .
After being kept at temperatures varying probably not mors from 40 C. to 44 C. during five hours , the conducting power of the liquid was practically the same as at first .
Thus , at 12.50 .
( boiling ) the deflection was 290 scale divisions .
The flame was then ] ightly reduced , and at\mdash ; 1.20 .
260 scale divisions .
3.30 .
150 The flame was then ised again , and at\mdash ; 4.30 .
220 scale divisions .
5.30 P. .
( boiling ) 280 5.50 .
, , 280 New grapbite electrodes were next tried , and found to discolour the stllphur considerably ; but the resistance was increased .
In all cases the current passed .
The objection to using same odes , even after using great care in cleamng them in the different liquids , and in that way contaminating them , and the impossibility of getbing new ones that would do without previous boiling in sulphur , caused me to abandon their uss altogether , and to depend upon a short exposure of platinum instead .
The conclusion , determined by the work described , vfas that using combustion-tubing for boiling and wellcooked graphite electrodes , the change produced by chemical action is practically nothing , even after boiling several hours , if the containing vessel be protocted from the direct flame , and that in the case of platinum electrodes , it tne observations are taken immediately they inserted into the liquid , the action is slow enough to allow measurements to be taken without fear of error .
Resistance and other Properties of Sulphnr .
Purification of the Sulphur .
In the first method , for which I am indebted to Dr. Ruhemann , of the Chemical Laboratory , Cambridge , bisulphide of carbon was purified by being shaken with a little mercury and allowed to stand .
It was afterwards distilled over dry calcium .
These operations were repeated until the liquid was separated from other sulphides and from water .
Jt was then saturated with sulphur and half of the liquid distilled .
On cooling , ystals of sulpbur formed .
These were removed and washed with fresh bisulphide to remove any impurities that might have been left on their surfaces by the tion of the adhering mother-liq .
They were then carefully broken up and placed in a vacuum to remove as much of the bisulphide possible before distilling .
After remaining so for several days , they were distilled in vacuo several times , the first portion coming ovel and tion remaining behind being rejected in each case .
The substance thus produced was of a beautiful light yellow colour , and melted into a perfectly clear , transparent liquid , about the colou of olive oil ; at higher temperatures it assumed the tint of port wine .
No traces of sulphuric acid , nor of chlorides , could be found , and the absence of selenium was proved in the original substance .
The only objection to this method of working is the presence of a body whose solvent power for sulphul is so , and the possibility that the last traces are not removed even by repeated distillations in cacuo .
The second method consisted in distilling precipitated sulphur in an atmosphere of chloride of sulphur , which removes hydrogen eompounds .
Aftel this several times , it was distilled vacuo .
As before , the middle portion only was retained .
This method has been found to give good results in the hands of some experimenters , I found very great difficulty in removing the chloride , being obliged to reduce the body to a fine powder , and wash with water , and finding this insufficient , finally distilled over a fe small pieces of pure zinc in vacuo , after which it was redistilled .
This specimen 1vas distilled altogether eleven times .
third method is the one used by Professor Threlfall , who takes hyposulphite of soda , free from seIenium , and dissolves it in distilled vater , then precipitates the sulphur by means of pure hydrochloric acid .
The shown by the well-known equation\mdash ; All the substances produced , being either soluble in wstet , or gas evolved during the reaction , except the sulphur itself , can be shed out with pure water .
Dr. J. Monc , kman .
Spejific To avoid the addition of any objectionable body , no attempt was made to precipitate ttJe sulphur from the sulphur dioxide , hence half the sulphur present was lost .
Thus it will be seen at once that a considerable quantity of the salt was required to a very small quantity of pure sulphur . .
of the lJphite were dissolved , filtered , and decomposed by acid , then washed until free from salts and acids , dried , and distilled several times .
When the residue appeared to be perfectIy free from { oreign matter it was repeatedly distilled in vacuo , the middle portion being emoved .
In this method the only solvent was water , and the other bodies produced could be tested for by delicate chemical reactions .
I believe that the three methods described fulfil the requirements mentioned in an earlier portion of this paper , iving as pure sulplJur as can be prepared , but at the same time , the bodies that may have escaped removal ] differ in each specimen .
Res istance and other Properties of Sulphur .
An improvement was introduced into the insulation of the elecodes .
The platinum wires were fused into glass tubes from 12 to 14 inches in length .
These were fixed into hard dry wood at a distance of several inches from their ends .
In this way the only part that can possibly couduct is removed further from source of heat .
The ends of the electrodes were flat plates , formed by bending the platinum wire upon itself three or four times , and then welding it together , also for greater security a strip of platinum-foil was welded to the back of each .
The length of AB cm .
, the width cm .
, and the distance apal cm .
The tube the sulphur was boiled was formed by fusing the end of a piece of combustion-tubing about 9 inches long , and id enough to allow the glass tubes to be inserted in the sulphur without danger of touching the sides , and bhns forming circuit rough hot glass .
It was surrounded to the height inches by a copper tube , closed at the bottom , the intervening space being filled with sand .
To avoid the action which has been shown to take place when platinum is exposed for any length of time to phur at a high temperature , the electrodes were kept out of the liquid until everything was ready for taking a reading ; they were then inserted , and the eadings 1aving been taken as quickly as possible , they were removed .
At the end of each set of nents the wires were examined and found in every case to be free from any appearance of the dark observed in the preliminary work .
Before them into the next specimen of ] phur they were ignited in the blowpipe-flame until perfectly clean .
The method used was to place ths sulphur in circuit with a battel and a high resistance galvanometer ohms ) .
In order to avoid chemicat action it was considered better to reduce the luml ) and to commence with the boiling point .
Those previously found , for precipitated sulphur at the samo tcmperature , were 512 , 73 , and 15 .
I have therefore concluded that the two curves are identical .
When the sulphur was removed from the circuit and a known esistance inserted , the calculated specific resistance was about onefifth larger than that given by precipitated sulphur .
Dr. J. Monckman .
The Specific I have calculated the specific resistance from the experiments , mors as indication of the magnitude of the resistance at the boiling point , and of the changes that take place as the temperature varies , than as an accurate determination of specific resistance .
There are several circumstances which prevent the great accuracy usually expccted in such cases .
irst the extreme difficulty of obtaining a steady temperature without exposing the electrodes to chemical action .
Thus if the readings be taken at C. , by using a bath of boiling mercury it requires a considerable time get the whole mass of sulphur to this temperature , the sulphur beiug a very bad conductor of heat and there being no agitation to assist .
When the whole is steady and the electrodes are introduced , they cool portion in contact with them , and it is necessary to wait until the temperature rises again .
Hence arises an uncertainty , we may take it before the temperature is fully recovered , or we may delay too long and allow chemical action to commence .
The same objection applies , in some measure , to boihng sulphur , but as the whole is in motion the recovery is quick .
Great care is necessary to prevent bubbles of gas rising up bebweoll the electrodes and so increasing the resistance .
Some error might also arise from the size of the electrodes , cm .
cm .
, distance cm .
They were as Iarge as the quaIl .
tities of pure sulphur obtained by nearly three months ' work enabled me to use them .
With these reservations I give the specific resistance of melted Hulphur , calculated from experiments with the three specimens menioned .
An objection has been raised to the curve found in the experiment on the boiling point of sulphur under varying pressures , on bhe ground that the l.ises in a straight line , and that , therefore , the boiling point would give a sbraight line also .
It is usually stated in text.books that when the vapour-pressure of liquid becomes equal to the pressure on the surface of that liquid it immediately begins to boil .
If this is a scientifio fact , the objecand oth Properties of tion urged is good , the vaponlr-pressure of any liqnid and the oiling point of that liquid must be on the same line .
I th , however , that it is never absolutely correct , and sometimes it is very being If we suppose a thin film of the liquid to be acted upon with a ( lown-ard pressure produced by the .
and an upwal .
duced by its vapour-pressure , these two forces , by hypothesis , equnl opposite in direction , can produce no motion in the film .
Let the { orce necessoxy to produce this motion be called .
Besides the mere upward motion of the film in a bubble , there is an expanding action which draws out the ctance of the bubble , is resisted by it with force upon the of the .
Let is be called ( b ) .
Finally , there is a certaill amount of for required to burst the articles of the liquid apart when the bubble to form .
Let this be .
We have , therefore , when bubbles are formed in any a force equal to the pressure on the surface of liquid together If the viscosity of the liquid remains same range of temperature , emain the same , and line -pressnre and that for boiling point will be pal.allel , but if instead of this , the liquid .
from : a liquid mobile ater to a thick viscous , so stiff that ) vessel it may be inverted without one drop of the substance bein , lost , will also , and the lines will not be parallel .
The forces be a function of the viscosity .
To test the truth of this reasoning , I carefully repeated the experiments , and found the results to with previously obtained .
At the same time , besides nohng the pressures at the ] to form on the surface of the liquid at various tempel.atures , observed the ressures at which these bubbles burst , and found that there was a rence .
Up to C. it was 4 mm. of reury , hile at C. it fell to 1 mm. , I did not attempt to sure the force , but I thin it that it is much greater than , and iation of in explains the form of the found .
The ecule is known to various Ilges , at one rature containing six atoms , cnter its formation .
What are the modilictions ko when it cools to a liquid , or when it assumes a semi-fluid .
XLTI .

