154 Ur .
J. A. Harker .
( 1 ) That the effect which ether-oxygen exerts on the viscosity of a liquid differs to a marked extent from the effect exerted either by hydroxyl-oxygen or carbonyl-oxygen , and that ( 2 ) The viscosity of the formate is abnormally large when compared with that of other esters , and indicates that the exceptional behaviour of formic acid is to some extent retained by its ethereal salts .
" On the Determination of Freezing Points .
" By J. A. Harker , D.JSc .
Communicated by Professor Schuster , F.R.S. Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) Of recent years great improvements have been made in the construction of accurate thermometers .
For their graduation and study , the position of the thread for at least two fixed temperatures must be known with certainty , and one of these is generally the freezing point .
According to many observers , the methods at present in use for the determination of this point are unsatisfactory and cannot be relied on , even when considerable precautions are taken , to more than about 0*001 ' to 0*002 ' .
The object of the present communication is to describe a method by which more consistent results can be obtained , and which is applicable to all kinds of thermometers .
The method adopted is to cool distilled water in a suitable vessel , protected from radiation , to a temperature below 0 ' , to insert the thermometer , and then bring about the freezing of the water by dropping in a crystal of ice .
The thermometer then rises , and finally attains a steady temperature , differing only very slightly from the true zero .
Within the space allotted to this abstract , it is not possible to describe in detail all the precautions to be adopted and the apparatus employed , and for these reference must be made to the original paper .
The following brief outline may , however , be given .
The apparatus consists of two portions , the thermostat and the cooler .
The former is a rectangular copper vessel , filled with some liquid , which can be cooled below 0 ' without solidifying .
Generally either refined petroleum or a strong solution of common salt is employed .
This vessel communicates by means of two wide tubes with a system of coils in the cooler , through which the liquid can be pumped by a rotary stirrer .
These coils are surrounded by a freezing mixture at about \#151 ; 8 ' , and by this means the circulating liquid can be cooled and maintained for some time at about \#151 ; 2 ' .
The distilled water to be frozen is contained in a tube of about 300 c.c. capacity made of clear glass .
This is first placed directly On the Determination of Freezing Points .
into the circulating liquid , and cooled quickly to \#151 ; 0'5 ' or \#151 ; 0'7J .
It is then transferred to a copper cylinder lined with polished metal , placed in the centre of the thermostat , an annular space of about 1 cm .
being left between them .
The thermometer whose zero is to be taken is then quickly fixed in position in a spring clamp , the bulb and a considerable length of the stem above the zero being immersed in the water .
A crystal of ice is dropped in , and the temperature quickly rises to the freezing point .
For the details of the arrangement for the illumination of the divisions , and taking the readings through the mass of the liquid containing the ice crystals in suspension , reference must be made to the paper .
The amount of ice formed in the liquid varies of course with the undercooling .
Experiments made with good mercurial thermometers showed that if ice be present in sufficient quantity , the final temperature attained by the mixture of ice and water is not influenced perceptibly by variation of the temperature of the circulating liquid within fairly wide limits .
As , however , it is extremely doubtful whether the indications of any mercurial thermometer can be relied on beyond 0'001 ' , it seemed desirable to control this result by some other means .
A platinum thermometer and bridge were therefore designed , capable of indicating with certainty a change of 0'0001 ' , and a description of the whole arrangement employed to attain this degree of accuracy forms the second half of the paper .
The resistances in the bridge were of manganin , whose temperature coefficient is only about that of the usual resistance alloys , and the plugs usually employed for short circuiting the coils were replaced by copper bars and mercury contacts of specially low resistance .
The thermometers employed were of about 10 ohms resistance , and were provided with the compensating leads , devised by Mr. Callendar .
The maximum current which can be used in accurate measurements wdth these thermometers is about 0'02 ampere , and therefore the galvanometer employed required to be extremely sensitive .
The instrument selected was a low resistance astatic one with vertical needle system of the type described by Weiss , and gives at the greatest sensibility at which the zero is steady one scale division for 1 x 10-10 ampere at 2500 scale divisions distance .
With this arrangement the influence of various conditions on the final temperature attained by the mixture of ice and water was studied .
The results were found to be in close agreement with the theoretical deductions of Nernst , and it was found that with the right conditions , it was quite easy to keep the temperature in the freezing vessel constant , to within one or two ten-thousandths of a degree for an hour at a time .
VOL. lx . .
" M. Henri Moissan .
The conclusion drawn from the previous experiments made with mercurial thermometers as to the small influence of changes in the external temperature , and in the temperature of the circulating liquid on that of the freezing vessel , was also confirmed , and it was found that in the final form of apparatus adopted , a change of two or three degrees in the temperature of the circulating liquid only caused the temperature of the mixture in the tube to alter by three or four ten-thousandths .
" \#163 ; tude .
des Carbures Metailiques .
" By M. Henri Moissan .
Communicated by Professor RAMSAY , F.R.S. Received June 11 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
Les combinaisons definies et cristallisees du carbone avec les metalloides et les metaux etaient tres peu connues jusqu'ici .
On savait seulement que certains metaux tels que le fer , pouvaient dis-soudre du carbone , et donner des fontes .
Les connaissances des chimistes sir ce point etaient peu etendues parce que ces combinaisons no se produisent qu'a un temperature tres elevee .
L'application que j'ai faite de l'arc electrique comme moyen de chauffage d'un appareil de laboratoire m'a permis d'aborder cette question .
Je resumerai mes recherches sir ce point dans cette note .
A la haute temperature du four electrique un certain nombre de metaux , tels que Tor , le bismuth , le plomb , et l'etain no dissolvent pas de carbone .
Le cuivre liquid n'en prend qu'une tres petite quantite , suffisante deja pour changer ses proprietes et modifier profondement sa mallea-bilite .
L'argent a sa temperature d'ebullition dissout un petite quantite de carbone qu'il abandonne ensuite par refroidissement sous form de graphite .
Cette font d'argent , obtenue a tres haute temperature , present un propriete curieuse , celle d'augmenter de volume en passant de l'etat liquid a l'etat solide .
Ce phenomene est analogue a celui que nous rencontrons dans le fer .
L'argent et le fer purse diminuent de volume en passant de l'etat liquid a l'etat solide .
Au contraire , la font de fer et la font d'argent dans les memes circonstances augmenteront de volume .
L'alu minium possede des proprietes identiques .
Les metaux du platine a leur temperature d'ebullition dissolvent le carbone avec facilite et l'abandonnent sous form de graphite avaunt leur solidification .
Ce graphite est foisonnant .
Un grand nombre de metaux vont , au contraire , a la temperature du four electrique produire des composes definis et cristallises .

