Some Observations on the Functions of the Nervous System , and the relation which they bear to the other vital Functions .
By Alexander Philip Wilson Philip , M.D. F.R.S. L. 8 &amp; E. Read April 2 , 1829 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 261 .
] The intention of the author in the present paper , is , not to bring forwards any new facts , but to take a general review of the inferences deducible from the series of facts detailed by him in previous papers communicated to this Society .
He divides the nerves into two classes , essentially differing in their functions .
The first comprehends those nerves , which , proceeding directly from the brain and spinal cord to other parts , convey in the one case to those parts the influence of those organs only from which they originate , and thus excite to contraction the muscles of voluntary motion ; and in the other case transmit to the sensorium impressions made on the parts to which they are distributedl .
The second class corxprises what may be termed the Ganglionic nerves , or those which enter ganglions , properly so called ; that term being limited to such protuberances only as receive branches of nerves proceeding from the brain and spiral cord .
These nerves are distributed more especially to the vital organs , as the thoracic and abdominal viscera , and to the muscles subservient to their functions .
The nerves belonging to this class also convey impressions to the sensorium , and occasionally excite the muscles of involuntary motion , which , in common with all muscles , possess an inherent power of contractility dependent solely on their own mechanism , and which in ordinary cases are excited by stimuli peculiar to themselves .
But the most important function of the ganglionic nerves , is that of supporting the processes of secretion and assimilation , which require for their performance the combined influence of the whole brain and spinal cord .
Viewed as a whole , the system of ganglionic nerves , therefore , constitutes , in the strictest sense , a vital organ .
Thus the sensorium , though connected by means of the cerebral and spinal nerves only partially with the organs of sense and voluntary motion , is , by means of the ganglionic nerves , connected generally with all the functions of the animal body .
Hence affections of the stomach and other vital organs extend their influence over every part of the frame ; while those of a muscle of voluntary motion , or even of an organ of sense , although possessing grleater sensibility , are confined to the injured part .
Froxm a due consideration of the phenomena of the nervous system , it would appear that they imply the operation of more than one principle of action .
The sensorial power is wholly distinct from the nervous power ; the former residing chiefly in the braiin , while the latter belongs equally to the spinal cord and brain , and may be exercised independently of the sensorial power .
In like manner , the muscular power resides in the muscles , and may be called into action by various irritat:ions independently of the nervous power , though frequently excited by the action of that power .
The muscles of voluntary motion are subjected to the sensorial power through the intervention of the nervous system ; and those of involuntary motion are also , under certain circumstances , capable of being excited through the nerves by the sensorial power , particularly when under the influence of the passions .
The same observation applies also to other actions which properly belong to the nervous power , such as the evolution of caloric from the blood , and the various processes of secretion and of assimilation .
That the nervous power is in these instances merely the agent of other powers , and is independent of the peculiar organization of the nerves , is proved by the same effects being produced by galvanism , transmitted through conductors different from the nerves .
'he successive subordination of these several powers is shown during death , when the sensorial fuinctions are the first to cease , and the animal no longer feels or wills , but yet the nervous power still continues to exist , as is proved by the nerves being capable , when stimulated , of exciting contractions in the muscles , both of voluntary and of involuntary motion , of producing the evolution of caloric and of renewing the processes of secretion .
In like manner the power of contraction , inherent in the muscular fibre , survives the destruction of both the sensorial and nervous powers , having an existence independent of either , although in the entire state of the functions they are subjected to the entire influence of both .
A difficulty here presents itself .
If both the nervous and muscular powers be independent of the sensorial power , why , it may be asked , , do the more perfect animals survive for so short a time the loss of the sensorial functions ?
This the author explains by the dependence of respiration on all the three powers , the sensorial , nervous , and muscular , and its consequent cessation when either of these powers is withdrawn .
In support of this view of the subject , he adduces various arguments to show that the muscles of respiration belong to the class of voluntary muscles , and that their action in performing that function is strictly voluntary , and the result of an impression made upon the sensorium by the want of fresh air in the lungs .
These actions , though they have become automatic , are originally and essentially voluntary , and remain so even during apoplexy , as long as the breathing continues ; but as soon as all sensibility is destroyed they necessarily cease , and death ensues .
The phenomena are not explicable upon the hypothesis of a particular sympathy existing in the nerves distributed to the muscles subservient to respiration , and , if the above theory be adopted , require no other supposition for their explanation .
As the organs supplied by the ganglionic nerves are subjected to the influence , not of any one but of every part of the brain and spinal cord , no inference respecting the sympathies of any of these nerves can be drawn , either from their particular origin or mode of distribution ; and still less room can there be for such inferences in functions , where , as in respiration , the sensorial power is so materially concerned .

