Experiments on the solar , and on the terrestrial Rays that occasion Heat ; with a comparative View of the Laws to which Light and Heat , or rather the Rays which occasion them , are subject , in order to determine whether they are the same , or different .
By William Herschel , LL. D. F.R.S. Read May 15 , 1800 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1800 , p. 293 .
] In the prefatory part of this paper , the author found it necessary to limit the sense he affixes to the word heat ; and after excluding the late terminology of latent , absolute , specific , sensible heat , the matter of heat , caloric , and even radiant heat , which last , however , comes nearest to the expression he has adopted , he desires to be understood , that , in speaking of rays which occasion heat , he does not mnean that those rays themselves are heat , but that he here considers heat merely as the effect of a cause , the nature of which is no part of his present inquiry .
Having thus determined the subject of his investigation , the Doctor distinrguishes heat into six different kinds ; whereof three are solar , and three terrestrial .
These , however , are reducible into three general divisions , each of the solar and terrestrial kinds resembling each other respectively .
The first is the heat produced by luminous bodies , whether by the sun or by terrestrial flames .
The second comprehends the heat of coloured radiants , such as that of the sun separated by a prism , and that of culinary fires openly exposed .
And the third relates to heat from radiants , where neither light nor colour can be perceived ; such as the heat of invisible solar rays , refracted by a prism , which have been the subject of a former paper ; and the terrestrial heat from fires enclosed in stoves , and from metals heated short of the lowest degree of incandescence .
The chief object of the present inquiry being to give a comparative view of the operations that may be performed on the rays that occasion heat , and of those which we know to have been effected on the rays that occasion light , a short detail is given of the principal factf respecting the latter , which not bnly are well known to be founded .
but arc also best calculated to elucidate the comparison .
These are the seven following:-1 .
Light , both solar and terrestrial , is a sensation occasioned by rays emanating from luminous bodies ; 2 .
These rays are subject to the laws of reflection ; 3 .
They are refrangible ; 4 .
They are of different refrangibility ; 5 .
They are liable to be detained by different diaphanous bodies ; 6 .
They are liable to be scattered on rough surfaces ; and 7 .
They have hitherto been supposed to have a power of heating bodies , which however remains as yet to be examined .
The similar propositions respecting heat which the Doctor intends to prove , are as follows:-1 .
Heat , both solar and terrestrial , is a sensation occasioned by rays emanating from candent substances ; 2 .
These rays are subject to the laws of reflection ; 3 .
They are refrangible ; 4 .
of different refrangibility ; 5 .
liable to be detained in their passage ' through other bodies ; 6 .
liable also to be scattered on rough surfaces ; and lastly , They may be supposed , when in a certain state of energy , to have a power of illuminating objects ; which last , however , remains as yet to be examined .
The paper before us is limited to the experiments on the three first of the above.mentioned comparative propositions..They are twenty in number , of which the ten first relate to the reflection , and the ten last to the refraction of these rays , under all the variety of circumstances deducible from the different kinds of heat above enumerated ; to which are added , some attempts to produce a condensation of heat independent of light , by spherical mirrors and lenses .
Such mirrors and lenses , together with accurate thermometers , were the instruments used in these experiments , of which those on invisible solar heat , and invisible culinary rays , are perhaps the most striking , as they serve to corroborate the theory laid down by the Doctor in a former paper concerning the existence of such heat and rays independent of light .
It being impracticable to epitomize the ample account of these experiments given in the paper , we must content ourselves with observing in general , that all their results fully evince the truth of the second and third propositions above laid down , viz. that the rays which occasion heat , both solar and terrestrial , in all their different kinds , and under every variety of circumstances that could be devised , are subject to the laws of reflection and refraction .
The same results also convey sufficient evidence of the radiant nature of light ; and hence equally prove the first of those propositions .
The three following ones , viz. the fourth , fifth , and sixth , are reserved for a future communication ; where the author proposes likewise to enter into a discussion concerning the seventh or last of them , relating to the power of heating and illuminating .

