474 On the Identification of Chitin hy its Physical Constants .
By Igerna B. J. Sollas , Fellow of Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Professor W. J. Sollas , F.R.S. Received May 27 , ___ Read June 13 , 1907 .
) The determination of the distribution of ehitin in the animal kingdom is hampered by the absence of any test or positive means of identifying it .
Gamgee , in his- 'Text-book of Physiological Chemistry/ gives a list of structures of invertebrate animals in which chitin has been described .
But when those cases are eliminated in which the identification has been based solely on the negative character of insolubility in caustic alkalis or weak acid , the revised list , as it appears , for instance , in von Fiirth 's * Yergleichende chemische Physiologie der niederen Tiere/ is greatly curtailed .
It is true that chitin yields a characteristic decomposition product , the amido-derivative of sugar known as chitosamin , in definite proportions , but the amount of material available is not always sufficient to allow of the preparation of this product .
In cases , however , where we have other reasons for suspecting the presence of chitin , the reducing action of the chitosamin resulting from the treatment of the original substance with sulphuric acid is a valuable confirmatory test .
Under these circumstances it seemed that it might be worth while to make a determination of the specific gravity of chitin by the well-known method of a diffusion column .
The specific gravity of any substance as thus determined stands in real and intimate relation to its chemical constitution , for the mass dealt with is always small and can therefore be rendered homogeneous by various cleansing processes .
It is readily permeated by the suspending fluid and the absence of any other sources of error may be ensured without difficulty .
In addition to the determination of the specific gravity , that of the refractive index should be made , for two substances may possess the same specific gravity , but not the same chemical composition , though when we have other reasons for suspecting their identity this is unlikely .
The refractive index of any substance has been shown by Gladstone and others to be connected with the specific gravity by a relation which , whether expressed as \#151 ; \#151 ; or more correctly as 2_|_2*8 cons^an^ *or sub* stance and is independent of the temperature .
Therefore the demonstration On the Identification of Chitin by its Physical Constants .
4 of common values for the specific gravity and the refractive index of two substances affords strong evidence of their identity.* Unfortunately , I do not possess a reading microscope , so that I have taken my readings direct from a scale at the back of the experimental tube .
But I have appreciated the advantage of the use of glass beads : when these are made and suitable fluids chosen the process need occupy but little time .
The fluids I have used are chloroform , of which the specific gravity is roughly 1*48 at 21 ' C. , and " absolute " alcohol of specific gravity 0*791 at 21 ' C. The specific gravity of chitin from the integuments of Astacus having been found roughly to lie somewhere between T39 and T41 , mixtures of chloroform and alcohol of specific gravity 1*36 and 1'44 were made with the help of a Westphal 's balance , and these mixtures formed the two fluids of the column .
In using light fluids it is not possible to float glass beads , such as are used for dealing with minerals in heavy fluid columns , and which are described in ' Nature * :f it is necessary in the present case to blow the beads dumbbell-shaped , but with both ends hollow .
Hence it is possible to obtain beads which float with their long axis horizontal and this is an advantage , for the nearer the axis of the bead approaches to the horizontal position the less is likely to be the error which arises in estimating its centre of gravity .
Chitin from various sources was prepared in the usual way by soaking in 10-per-cent , hydrochloric acid , boiling in 5-per-cent , caustic potash^ for many hours with frequent changes of the liquid , washing in water , very dilute hydrochloric acid , and extracting in alcohol and ether .
In some cases this treatment did not render the chitin quite colourless : the last traces of pigment were removed by Mayer 's method of bleaching , in which chlorine is the active agent .
The specific gravity of chitin from integuments of Astacus cleaned in this way was found to range between 1*400 and 1*404 .
The chitin of a caterpillar , Bombyx cynthia , was slightly heavier , 1*404 to 1*408 , of the cockroach wing 1*402 , of the pupa case of the buff-tip moth 1*404 : of Oniscus and spiders , again , the value agreed very nearly with that of Astacus .
Two species of Myriapoda gave the value 1*397 to 1*399 ; one of these was the common English Lithobius , the other a large millepede which I picked up in the Karroo , South Africa , but have not identified .
* This method was originally published in 1885 by Professor Sollas in the 'Roy .
Soc. Dublin Proc. , ' new ser. , vol. 4 , p. 378 , and subsequently in 'Nature , ' 1891 , vol. 43 , p. 404 , and 'Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 58 , p. 163 , 1902 .
+ Loc .
cit. X The use of potash of this strength , which is weaker than that employed by Kruken-berg , was recommended to me by Dr. F. Gowland Hopkins , to whom I am indebted for much kindly interest in this investigation .
VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. 2 M Miss I. B. J. Sollas .
On Identification of , [ May 27 , The chitin which had the lowest specific gravity of any I have measured was that of Limulus and of Scorpio .
This had a value 1-393 when cleaned as above described .
If , however , stronger potash is used , chitin from Astacus and from Limulus approach each other in a diffusion column and give a zone at a level corresponding to a specific gravity 1*398 .
This figure seems to represent the value of the specific gravity of pure chitin , for , as stated below , it is that of chitin precipitated from its solution in strong acid .
The strength of potash which gives a common value for the specific gravity of chitin from both Limulus and Astacus is 40 per cent. It must be used for a short time only after the usual long boiling in 5 or 10 per cent. , as the prolonged action of strong potash causes chitin to become soluble in weak acid .
Neither boiling in 50-per-cent , hydrochloric acid nor soaking in strong hydrofluoric acid alters the specific gravity of chitin .
Young chitin from a crayfish which had recently undergone ecdysis was heavier than the older skin ; it formed a zone at a level corresponding to a specific gravity of 1*410 , with outlying pieces down to 1*420 .
Unfortunately , I have not obtained the specific gravity of the cast skin .
It proved to be more readily soluble in weak acid after boiling potash than the younger chitin and , not foreseeing this , I inadvertently dissolved it before I had taken measurements .
The refractive indices for red light of the chitin from various sources which I have measured lie between the limits 1*550 and 1*557 .
The measurement was made by Becke 's method.* That from Astacus and Limulus integuments lies between 1*554 and 1*557 .
The fluids used in these determinations were aniseed oil and mixtures of aniseed and fennel oils calculated to have the refractive indices 1*550 and 1*557 .
As stated above , chitin was precipitated from its solution in strong hydrochloric acid , in order to determine which of the obtained values , ranging between the extremes 1*393 and 1*408 , represents the specific gravity of pure chitin .
The solution was performed in a refrigerator , carapaces of Astacus and Limulus being used .
At the end of a fortnight no difference in the bulk of the solid was noticeable on inspection .
The acid was then poured off and diluted in the refrigerator with 10 times its volume of water cooled till a thin film of ice formed on the surface .
A copious milky precipitate was formed .
Fresh acid was poured over the remaining pieces of chitin , and slight precipitates obtained at intervals of two days from this freshly * " Ueber die Bestimmbarkeit der Gesteinsgemengtheile auf Grand ihres Licbt-brechungsvermogens , " ' Sitzungsber .
der K. Akad .
der Wissensch .
, ' Vienna , vol. 102 , p. 358 , 1893 .
1907 .
] Chitin by its Physical Constants .
added acid .
The solution in hydrochloric acid , when kept at a temperature of less than 0 ' C. , is thus seen to be not unstable .
The precipitate , which was floeculent , was washed by decantation until an acid reaction was no longer obtained ; it was then boiled in alcohol and ether .
Placed in a specific gravity column , it formed a broad zone , extending from 1*380 to 1*390 .
Some of the precipitate was then dried at a low temperature ( 40 ' to 60 ' C. ) .
It formed a thin film on the evaporating dish , which was scraped off with a scalpel , and then formed a white powder .
This powder had a specific gravity 1*398 , and this , I conclude , is the specific gravity of chitin .
If dried too rapidly at a higher temperature than 60 ' , the precipitate flakes off the dish and its specific gravity is no longer uniform .
The substances of unknown chemical composition which I have examined by this method are Lumbricus bristles , the organic portion of the molluscan radula , the pupal skin of Pieris , and of some other Lepidoptera stated by Griffiths to be " pupin .
" I had hoped to deal also with the skeletal substance of the branchial bars of Amphioxus , which are stated to be insoluble in alkalis , but I could obtain no residue after boiling the pharynx , even in weak caustic potash .
An account of the specific gravity of the organic portion of the shell of Sepia , in which chitin has been found by Krukenberg , is also given below .
Lumbricus chsetse were isolated in the following manner:\#151 ; The worm was slit up along the mid-dorsal line and the alimentary canal and its contents removed .
The remaining body wall was then washed in a current of water to remove any matters which might have escaped in the process of removal of the gut .
The contents of the gut are troublesome unless removed at once .
The worms thus far cleaned are now treated with 10-per-cent , hydrochloric acid , and then boiled in potash as usual in the preparation of chitin .
If after prolonged treatment with potash any matter other than chsetae remains undissolved , this is most readily got rid of at a later stage of the cleansing process ( after extraction in alcohol ) by separation in a diffusion column , say of chloroform and alcohol .
The bristles will float on the chloroform , the insoluble dirt ( presumably sand , undigested wood fibres , and cellulose , set free in removing the alimentary canal ) sinks to the bottom .
The bristles can then be removed with a pipette and extracted in ether .
In this way a considerable quantity of chsetse can be collected with very little trouble .
They form a neat zone in a diffusion column at a level corresponding to a specific gravity 1*392 .
They are doubly refracting .
I have measured one index only , it lay between 1*557 and 1*550 .
I conclude , therefore , that the cliaetae of Lumbricus contain chitin .
This is in agreement with the results obtained by Goodrich.* * ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci./ 1897 , vol. 39 , " Notes bn Oligochsetes .
" 478 Miss I , B. J. Sollas .
On Identification of [ May 27 , From their solubilities and their behaviour with Millon 's reagent and with the xanthoproteic test , Goodrich considered that the bristles of Oligocheeta are evidently ehitin or some nearly allied substance .
But more recently Schepotieff* after a lengthy research , concludes : " Diese Beaktionen zeigen , dass die Borsten jedenfalls nicht aus einer einheitlichen Substanz bestehen , sondern aus mindestens zwei .
Die eine derselben zeigt die Beaktionen der Eiweisskorper .
Die andere kann schwerlich Chitin sein , wie der Mangel der Zuckerbildung bei Behandlung mit Schwefelsaure ergiebt .
" With regard to the last difficulty , the absence of sugar formation after treatment with sulphuric acid , I am unable to find that it exists , for I obtained copious sugar reduction with Trommer 's test .
Schepotieff ( p. 672 ) dissolved the bristles in 89-per-cent , sulphuric acid , kept them for 25 hours at a temperature of 40 ' to 50 ' C. , diluted the solution with 10 times its bulk of water , and kept the diluted solution at 100 ' C. for some hours .
He then neutralised with barium carbonate , and tested the solution with copper sulphate and sodium hydrate .
It was suggested to me by my friend Miss Durham that .
the use of barium carbonate in place of the usual caustic potash for neutralisation may have led to SchepotiefFs difficulty , as the precipitate , consequent on neutralisation with barium carbonate , would carry down the sugar with it .
At any rate , sugar is certainly present after treatment with sulphuric acid , and there is no reason why one of the two constituents should not be chitin .
That more than one substance should be present in the bristles is not surprising .
I have not met with any chitinous skeleton which did not give the proteid reaction to which Schepotieff alludes before it was cleaned .
Pupa cases of Pieris brassicce and P. napi , cleaned in the same way as chitin , had a specific gravity of 1*400 and refractive index between 1*554 and 1*557 .
Griffith* !
* has examined these integuments chemically , and has stated that they consist of a new animal substance which he calls " pupin.'* He dissolved the skins ( after they had been cleaned with potash , water , alcohol , and ether ) in hydrochloric acid , and precipitated from this solution a substance to which he assigned the formula C14H20N2O5 , and found that it split when boiled with strong mineral acids into leucin and carbon dioxide .
Yon Furth remarks that the proportions of 0 , H , and O point to an albuminoid , but the N-content is strikingly small .
He suggests that a closer investigation would be worth while , as he supposes that the products of splitting , besides leucin and carbon dioxide , must have been overlooked .
* ' Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 74 , 1903 , p. 674 .
+ ' Comptes Rendus , ' II , vol. 105 , pp. 320\#151 ; 321 , and ' Bull .
Acad. Roy .
Belg. , ' ( 3 ) , vol. 24 , 1892 , p. 592 .
1907 .
] Chitin by its Physical Constants .
I can only state that the substance has , like .
the integument of other Lepidopteran pupae , the physical properties of chitin , and that I have obtained evidence of the presence of sugar in it after treatment with 90-per-cent , sulphuric acid at a temperature of 40 ' C. for 24 hours .
The sugar was detected by Trommer 's test , as in the other cases mentioned.* The molluscan radula I have studied from this point of view by this method chiefly in the case of the periwinkle , Littorina littorea , the limpet , Patella vulgata , and the whelk , Buccinum undatum .
The radula of Patella , as I have shown elsewhere , f contains silica and iron in considerable quantities .
To cleanse it we must , therefore , treat it for some time ( 24 hours ) with strong hydrofluoric acid .
A control experiment showed that the specific gravity of chitin from the integument of Astacus was unaltered by this treatment .
After washing out the hydrofluoric acid the usual method of preparing chitin was used .
The radulse still retain a faint yellow colour after this treatment ; they were placed in chlorine water , when they became colourless and somewhat transparent .
They were cut into short lengths , and these were found to form a neat zone in the diffusion column at a level corresponding to a specific gravity 1*405 to 1*407 .
Littorina radulse gave a closely similar result .
In the case of Littorina I used the confirmatory test , and obtained reduction of copper salts by Trommer 's method .
Buccinum radulae differ from the others which were measured in that they form a broad irregular zone in a diffusion column .
The extreme tips of the radulse , taken from the radular sac , however , give a uniform specific gravity of 1*404 .
The remainder of the radulae form a band extending from 1*400 to 1*411 , or even lower .
It is noticeable that the pieces in this band for the most part hang with their greater length vertical , and the oldest end of each , length is lowermost .
It , therefore , seems possible that some second resistent substance , in addition to chitin , is present in this case in increasing quantities as we pass forwards from the radular sac .
If this is the correct interpretation of the facts , it is interesting in connection with the occurrence of free sulphuric acid in the salivary glands of Buccinum , and it is not surprising that an organ used to bore holes in shells with the aid of sulphuric acid should need to be specially resistent .
For some time I fancied that the irregularities in the specific gravity of this radula might be due to small particles of sand caught between the bases of the teeth and the basal membrane .
But the specific gravity of the teeth , when isolated * Since this was written , von Fiirth and Russo have shown by chemical methods that the integuments of Lepidopteran pupae consist of ordinary chitin , ' Beitr .
z. chem .
Physiol , u. Pathol .
, ' vol. 8 , 1906 .
+ 'Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci. , ' 1907 , vol. 51 , pp. 115\#151 ; 136 .
480 Miss I. B. J. Sollas .
On Identification of [ May 27 , from the basal membrane , shows that this cannot be so .
.The same radulee of which I had measured the specific gravity were treated for a moment with strong hydrochloric acid , with the result that the basal membrane was instantly destroyed and the teeth freed ; after washing and reboiling in alcohol they were found to have specific gravities of even wider range than that of the intact radula , the heaviest of them being T430 .
By soaking the radula of Buccinum for several weeks in very strong potash ( above 40 per cent. ) the teeth can be isolated , the basal membrane being destroyed .
This fact , discovered by chance , aroused some doubt as to whether the basal membrane were really chitin , and a repetition of the experiment was made in which the skeletons of two segments of Astacus were subjected to the action of the same strength of potash .
The two segments became isolated from one another , the abdominal feet ( pleopoda ) were also isolated from the segments , the soft connecting membranes being destroyed .
And yet these membranes have the same specific gravity and the same refractive index as chitin , and no one has ever suggested that they are anything else .
These membranes differ in staining reactions from the chitinous pieces which they connect in just the same way as the basal membrane of Buccinum differs from the teeth .
A third method of isolating these teeth is to soak the radula in hydrofluoric acid for 24 hours previous to the usual cleansing process .
The teeth will then be liberated when the radula is boiled in 5-per-cent , potash solution .
Teeth thus prepared gave the least range that I have found in this material ; they formed in all cases a dense zone at the level 1*393 ; in one instance they were confined to this zone , but in two other columns a certain number of teeth were scattered down to 1*411 , and a very few , perhaps five or six , hung at various depths below this .
Astacus integuments subjected to precisely the same treatment had a specific gravity of 1*406 ; and , as happened when strong potash was used , the connecting membranes were destroyed .
Some of the heavier Buccinum teeth were removed with a pipette from the column ; in one or two of them a single large granule , apparently a foreign body , was visible : it appeared to have undergone partial solution .
Since , in the case of Murex , I have seen obvious sand grains firmly embedded in the teeth of the radula , it would seem probable that the exceptionally heavy teeth are to be accounted for by accidents of this kind .
The minor variations in specific gravity may perhaps be due to some second organic substance accumulated in the thick body of the tooth remote from the margin , and thus not affecting the measurement of the refractive index , which lies constantly between 1*550 and 1*554 .
The fact that the heavier teeth hang in the column with their fangs upwards is in accordance with this view .
The refractive indices of the organic portion of the Molluscan radula , 1907 .
] Chitin by its Physical Constants . .
481 which I have determined in Littorina , Patella , and Buccinum , lie between 1*550 and 1*554 .
The shell of Sepia has been shown by chemists to contain chitin , and the percentage yield of chitosamin has been measured by them .
After decalcification with 10-per-cent , hydrochloric acid and boiling in 5-per-cent , potash it readily breaks up , the thick outer wall of the shell with the rostrum and lateral expansions becoming freed from the mass of delicate septa .
This outer layer quickly becomes transparent and colourless in parts , the rostrum and thickened region in its neighbourhood being yellowish .
The septa remain opaque , they adhere to one another by a maze of low sinuous ridges , the capillary spaces between which readily become filled with air , unless special care is taken to avoid this .
The specific gravity of the outer layer is not a constant quantity , but ranges from 1*385 to 1*393 .
Alternate boiling in various strengths of potash higher than 5 per cent , and in 50-per-cent , hydrochloric acid do not reduce this range .
The septa , on the other hand , form a zone in the diffusion column at the level of chitin .
The refractive index of the inner laminae lies between 1*550 and 1*554 ; that of the outer is variable , lying sometimes between 1*550 and 1*544 , sometimes between 1*550 and 1*554 .
The variable specific gravity of the outer layer of the Sepia shell points to the presence of more than one substance .
As the change in specific gravity goes hand in hand with a corresponding change in refractive index , the suggestion naturally arises that there may be a series of chitins , of which a lighter and a heavier member are present in the Sepia shell .
Rosenheim* has given some reason to suppose that the fossil carapace of Pterygotus osiliensis contains chitin .
It would be interesting to apply the method described in this paper in confirmation of his results , and to extend it to the study of other organic substances .
Summary .
The determination of the physical constants of chitin forms a useful method of identifying it .
The specific gravity of chitin from various sources approximates to the value 1*398 , a number which represents the specific gravity of chitin precipitated from its solution in strong acid .
The refractive index lies between the limits 1*550 and 1*557 .
The bristles of Lumbricus , the pupal skin of Pieris and other Lepidoptera , the radula of Mollusca and the shell of Sepia , when freed from mineral matter and easily soluble organic substances , have specific gravities and refractive indices which lie between the same limits as those of chitin from various sources .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , voL 76 , 1905 , pp..398\#151 ; 400 .

