On the Shoulder Girdle fyc .
III .
" On the Shoulder Girdle in Ichthyosauria and Sauro-pterygia .
" By J. W. Hulke , F.R.S. Received April 11 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The author discusses the structure of the shoulder girdle and the * homologies of its several parts in these families .
He shows that the : alleged existence of a precoracoid in the Ichthyosauria rests on an I insufficient foundation ; offers proofs that in Plesiosauria the anterior ) ventral ray is not only theoretically but actually precoracoid ; and !
also that the dorsal ray in the girdle is homologous with the shoulder-I blade in Testudinata and other Reptilia .
| IV .
" On the Embryology of Angiopteris evecta , Hofm .
" By J. Bretland Farmer , M.A. , Fellow of Magdalen College , Oxford .
Communicated by S. H. Vines , M.A. , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1892 .
During a recent visit to Ceylon I took the opportunity of collecting young plants and prothallia of Angiopteris , with the view of working out the embryology of this type of the eusporangiate Filicineas , since the development of the embryo is not as yet known in any member of this group .
Most of my specimens were obtained from clay banks in the vicinity of Peradeniya , where the plants are not uncommon .
The prothallia are easily distinguished from those of other Ferns by their somewhat orbicular shape , with crenate edges , as well by their strikingly deep-green colour .
They resemble the thalli of Anthoceros rather than a common Polypodiaceous prothallium , and indeed are not easily distinguished from the former when the two plants are associated on the same bank , as is frequently the case .
The germination of the spore and the development of the prothal-linm have been described by Jonkman , * who also observed the formation of the sexual organs .
The antheridium is formed from a superficial cell of the prothallium , which divides by a wall , parallel to the surface , into an outer shallow cell and an inner cubical cell .
The former , by walls at right angles to the free surface , gives rise to the cover cells ; while the inner one , by successive bipartitions , originates the antherozoid mother-cells .
This Fern is a very favour-able type for exhibiting the development of the antherozoids from the ttoeleus of the spermatocyte , on account of the relatively large size 0 the structures in question .
* De geslaclitsgeneratie der Marattiaceeen , ' door H. F. Jonkman .
Mr. J. B. Farmer .
the [ May 12 , The antheridia are distributed both on the upper and lower surfaces of the prothallium , and apparently without any approach to regularity , though they are somewhat more frequent on the lower surface .
I may observe , however , that an antheridium may often occur on the upper surface immediately above an archegonium which has been fertilised .
The archegonia occur exclusively on the lower surface .
Their development has been described by Jonkman , who also noticed the division of the neck canal cell , by a transverse wall , into two cells .
The division is not , however , invariable , and in one preparation in which the protoplasm had shrunk slightly from the wall , I observed that the cell plate had not extended so as to completely partition the neck passage into two cells .
The neck canal , and ventral canal , cells become converted into mucilage , which bursts open the archegonium , and thus admits of the passage of the antherozoid to the oosphere .
The oospore , after fertilisation , speedily forms an ovoid cellular body , and although I was not so fortunate , owing to scarcity of material , as to see the formation of the earliest cell walls , their succession could be determined with tolerable certainty in the youngest embryo that I met with , consisting as it did of about ten cells .
The basal wall is formed , as in Isoetes , at right angles to the axis of the archegonium .
The next one in order of occurrence I believe to be the median wall , which can easily be distinguished , even in advanced embryos , as a well-defined vertical line .
The transverse wall is much more indefinite , and early loses its individuality owing to the unequal growth of the various parts of the young embryo .
The further cell-division is irregular , and to a far greater extent than is the case with the leptosporangiate Ferns as described by Hofmeister and Leitgeb .
I was unable to determine the constant occurrence of segment walls , though indications of them could occasionally be seen in a few preparations .
The anterior epibasal octants together give rise to the cotyledon ; the stem-apex is formed , not as in the leptosporangiate Ferns , from one octant only , but from both of the posterior epibasal octants , though one of them contributes the greater portion .
The truth of this statement is seen on examining vertical sections through the embryo cut at right angles to the median wall , when a few cells on each side are seen to be clearly marked out by their dense protoplasmic contents and large nuclei , as meristem cells .
There is single apical cell in Angiopterisfrom which all the later stem tissue is derived , and this fact is , without doubt , to be connected with the character of the apical meristem just described .
The root is formed from one of the octants beneath the cotyledon , i.e. , from an anterioi hypobasal one , and is at first indicated by a triangular apical cell\gt ; [ 1892 .
] Embryology of Angiopteris evecta .
47S r c 0 }4 'nil ' which , in one fortunate preparation , showed the first cap cell .
The other octant , together with the two posterior hypobasal octants ( which together form the rudimentary foot ) , round off the base of the embryo .
The root presents considerable difficulty in tracing the course of its development , as the apical cell , at no time very clear , is early replaced by two cells , as I convinced myself by an examination of sections specially cut obliquely in order to determine this point .
Moreover , the root grows in a somewhat sinuous manner in the embryo , and the cells of its apex may easily be confounded with other triangular cells which occur irregularly scattered in the lower portion of the embryo .
It finally emerges , not immediately beneath , nor yet exactly opposite , the cotyledon , but at a distance from it of between one-third and one-half of the circumference of the embryo .
The difficulties attending the exact following of its growth , added to the scarcity of the material , have prevented my elucidating completely the details of development , but the important point , that , even before its emergence from the embryo , its apex contains a group of initial cells occupying the place of the single one characteristic of other orders of Ferns , can be regarded as established with certainty .
The vascular strand , which is differentiated early in the cotyledon , joins on to that of the root , and the first tracheid appears in that part of the bundle which is opposite to the junction of the cotyledon with the stem , in fact , just at the point where the leaf-trace curves round into the latter .
Thence the further differentiation of the xylem takes place in an upward and downward direction .
When the embryo has reached a certain size it bursts through the prothallium , the root boring through below , whilst the cotyledon and stem grow through the upper surface .
This manner of issuing from the prothallium at once serves to distinguish Angiopteris from those other Ferns whose embryogeny is known , and probably the peculiarity of its growth may be reasonably connected with the direction and position of the basal wall which separates the root and short portions of the embryo .
It will be remembered that in this plant the basal wall is parallel to the plane of the prothallium , instead of nearly at right angles to it , as in the leptosporangiate Ferns .
Fresh leaves and roots speedily arise on the young plantlet , the second leaf appearing just above the place of exit of the first root , that is , not quite opposite the first leaf .
The third leaf rises between the first and second ones , and nearer the first than the second .
Their roots observe the same rule of divergence as that which obtains in the case of the first root .
The stipular structures , 80 characteristic of the Marattiaceao , are entirely absent from the first two leaves , but appear in a well-developed condition on the third and all succeeding leaves .
They fulfil the function of enclosMr .
G. Bidder .
[ May 12 , ing and protecting the younger foliar structures , from the time of their first formation .
Y. " Note on Excretion in Sponges .
" By George Bidder .
Communicated by A DAM Sedgwick , E.R.S. Received April 9 , 1892 .
In a review* of Mr. Dendy 's work on the Homocoela , I briefly described ( p. 628 ) the " flask-shaped " or " glandular " epithelium , which I believe to form the most common external covering in all groups of sponges .
On p. 631 are shortly mentioned certain other granular cells , believed by Metschnikoff to be mesodermal , and by Dendy to be the dwelling place of symbiotic Algae ; I proposed the neutral name of " Metschnikoff cells .
" " In Ascetta clathrus there is an additional point of interest , that the granules in the ( glandular ) ectoderm cells differ from these , " i.e. , the granules in the Metschnikoff cells , " only in being of smaller size .
I have been very slowly and gradually led to the conclusion that the bodies in question , which I propose to call 'Metschnikoff cells , ' are metamorphosed collar cells ; that by their reaching to the exterior and becoming perforated , pores are formed ; and that the granules of these and of the ectoderm , and of the glandular ectoderm in general ( and possibly the granular cells so frequently described beneath it in Silicea ) , are excretory .
" This latter proposition , so far as concerns , may now be considered proved , and I think the observation sufficiently important to justify my asking permission to communicate it to the Society .
Leaving a sponge in a solution of indigo-carmine in sea-water ( at first I used a saturated , but afterwards a weaker , solution ) , I found that the granules normally present in the Metschnikoff and ectoderm cells become replaced in part by dark-blue granules , no other part of the sponge being in any way coloured blue .
Fig. 1 shows a Metschnikoff cell from a specimen of Ascetta clathrus , which had been thirteen hours in saturated indigo-carmine solution .
The black dots represent the granules which were blue , the colourless circles those which were of the usual yellow ; a few of intermediate shading represent granules which appeared pale-blue or green .
Focussing showed that , while this cell stretched under the spicule into the deep parts of the sponge wall , the left-hand extremity emerged on the upper ( ectodermal ) surface .
This particular cell I had the pleasure of demonstrating , while * ' Quart .
Jl .
Micr .
Sci. , ' Oct. , 1891 , Review\#151 ; Subsequently reprinted , L the permission of Messrs. Churchill , under the title of ' Notes on Calcareous Sponges .
'

