VIII .
On the Parts of Trees primarily ipaired by Age .
Ia Letter from T. A. Knight , Esq. F.R.S. to the Rt. tn .
Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P.R. S. Read March 9s , 181o .
MY DEAR SIR , IM the first communication I had the honour to address to you , ( it was in the year 1795 , ) r stated the result of many experiments on grafted trees , from which I inferred that each variety can be propagated with success , during a limited period only ; and that the graft , or other detached part of an old tree , or old variety , can never form that , which can with propriety be called a young tree .
I have subsequently endeavoured to ascertain which , amongst the various organs that compose a tree , first fails to execute its office , and thus tends to bring on the iicurable debility of old age ; and the result of the experiments appears sufficiently interesting , to induce no to communicate an account of them to you .
7Whatever diiference exists between the functions of animal and vegetable life , t'ere is a very obvious analogy between some of the organs of plants , and those of animals ; and it does not appear very improbabie , that the correspondent organ , in each , may farst Sil to execute its office ; and satisfctory evidence of the imperfect action of any particular organ can much more easily be obtained in the vegetable , than in the animal world .
For a tree may be composed , by the art of the grafter , of the detached parts of many others ; and the defective , or eficient , operation , of each organ , may thus be observed with the greatest accuracy .
But such observations cannot be made upon animals ; because the opera- : tions necessary cannot be performed ; and therefore , thoughh there would be much danger of error in incautiously transferring the phenomena of one class of organised beings toanother , I conceive that experiments oi plants may be , int some cases , useful to the intvestirator of the animal ecoon ; m y. They may direct him in his pursuits , and possibly facilitate his enquiries into the inmmediate causes of th edecay of aninal strengthl and lif ; and on a subject of so much importance to .
mankind , no source of infortmati:bn should remain .
unexplored , and .
no lights , however feeble , be disregarded Naturalistsboth of ancienta and modern times , have cconsidered the structure of plants , as , an inversion of that of animals , and have compared the rootsto the intestines , and : the laves to the lungs , of animals ; and , the analogy between ' the vegetable sap , and animal blood , is very close and ; obvious .
The experiments also , of which I have at different periods communicatedaccounts to you , supportedc by the ' fcts previously ascertained by other naturalists , scarcely leave any reasotable grounds of doubt , that the saIp 0o tree ' circulates , as far as is apparently necessary to , or consistent ; th , their state of xistenc and growth .
The roots of trees , particularly those in ' coppices , which are felledat Stated periods , continue so long to produce , and feed , a succssion .
of branches , that no experinetits , werr ?
wanted to satisfy me , that it is not any defective action of the root which occasions the debility and diseases of old varieties of the apple and pear tree ; and indeed experience every where shows , that a young seedling stock does not give the character of youth to the inserted bud or graft .
I , however , procured plants from cuttings of some very old varieties of the apple , which readily emit roots ; and these plants at the end of two years were grafted , about two inches above the ground , with a new and very luxuriant variety of the same species .
These grafts grew very freely , and the roots themselves , at the end of four or five years , probably contained at least ten times as much alburnum , as they would have contained , had the trees remained ungrafted .
The roots were also free from every appearance of disease , or defect .
Some crab-stocks were at the same time grafted with the golden pippin , in a soil where the wood of that variety rarely lived more than two years ; and I again grafted the annual shoots of the golden pippin , with cuttings of a young and healthy crab tree , so as to include a portion of the wood of the golden pippin , between the roots and branches of the native uncultivated species , or crab tree ; and in this situation it grew just as well as the wood of the stock and branches .
Some branches also of the golden pippin trees , which I mentioned in my former communication of 1795 , being much cankered , were cut off about a foot above the junction of the grafts to the stocks , and were regrafted with a new and healthy variety .
Parts of the wood of the golden pippin , in which were niany cankered spots , were thus placed between the newly inserted grafts , and the stocks ; and these parts have subsequently become perfectly free from disease , and i.So the wounds , previously made by canker , have been wholly covered with new and healthy bark .
These facts , therefore , satisfied me , that the debility and diseases of old varieties of fruit of this species , did not originate in any defective action of the bark or alburnum , either of the root , or of the stem and branches , and my attention was consequently directed to the leaf and succulent animal shoot .
A few crab-stocks were grafted with cuttings of the golden pippin , in a situation and soil , where I had previously ascertained that the wood of the golden pippin rarely remained in health at the end of a second year ; and , as soon as the annual shoots had acquired sufficient growth and firmness , numerous buds of a new and luxuriant variety of apple , which had recently sprung from seed , were inserted in them .
During the succeeding winter , the natural buds of the golden pippin branches were destroyed , and those inserted suffered alone to remain ; and as soon as the leaves of these had unfolded , and entered on their office , every symptom of debility and disease disappeared in the bark and wood of the golden pippin ; and each continued to perform its office , just as well as the wood and bark of the young seedling stocks could have done under similar circumstances .
I made nearly the same experiments on the pear tree , and with the same result .
I have endeavoured , in several former communicatcions , to prove that the sap of plants circulates throggh their leaves , , as the blood of animals circllates through their lungs ; and I have not subsequently found any facts , in the writings of other naturalists , or in my own experimensts , wich mnilitate against this conclusion .
I have also observed , that grafted trees , of old and debilitated varieties of fruit , became most diseased in rich soils , and when grafted on stocks of the most vigorous growth ; which has induced me to suspect , that in such cases more food is collected , and carried up into the plant , than its leaves can prepare and assimilate , and that the matter thus collected , which would have promoted the health and growth in a vigorous variety , accumulates , and generates disease in the extremities of the branches and annual shoots , whilst the lower part of the trunk and roots remain , generally , free from any apparent disease .
I am , therefore , much disposed to attribute the diseases and debility of old age in trees , to an inability to produce leaves , which can efficiently execute their natural office ; and to some consequent imperfection in the circulating fluid .
It is true that the leaves are annually reproduced , and therefore annually new : but there is , I conceive , a very essential difference between the new leaves of an old , and of a young variety : and in support of this opinion , I shall observe , that the external character of the leaf of the same variety at two , and at twenty years old , is very dissimilar ; and it therefore appears not improbable , that further changes will have taken place at the end of two centuries.* If these opinions be well founded , and the leaves of trees be analogous to the lungs of animals , is it very improbable that the natural debility of old age of trees and of animals , may originate from a similar source ?
-This is a question , upon which I am not by any means prepared to give an opinion : but I believe it will very generally be admitted , that the human subject is best formed for long life , when the chest is best formed to permit the lungs to move with most freedom .
I have also long and attentively observed amongst our domesticated animals , that those individuals longest retain their health and strength , and best bear excessive labour and insufficient food , in which the chest is most .
deep and capacious , proportionately to the length of current the circulating fluid has to run ; and the same remark will , I believe , be generally found applicable to the human species .
I am , my dear Sir , with great respect , sincerely yours , THO .
AND .
KNIGHT .
Downtont Feb. 26t 18 0 .

