]\gt ; The Relation between tloe Form the Constitution of the Picryl By GZOnGE JERUSALEN and WILLIAM JACKSON POPE , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Municipal School of , Victoria University of Manchester .
( Received April 6 , \mdash ; Read Apri130 , 1908 .
) The general relation between the constitution and the crystalline form of chemical substances has been determined by Barlow and Pope .
* It is illustrated by ning to each atom present a sphere or domain of influence , and constructing homogeneous close-packed corresponding in composition and constitution to the compounds concerned , using spheres as structural units to represent the spheres of atomic in fluence .
On constructing such assemblages it is found that , for their dimensions to accord with the eometrical dimensions of the crystal , the spheres of influence , delimited by the polyhedral cells enclosed by planes drawn through the points of contact of spheres , must possess volumes approximately proportional to the fundamental valencies of the corresponding elements .
The derived in this way exhibit properties corresponding with the chemical composition and constitution and with the crystalline form of the substance represented ; they are found also to be eneously partitionable into units which correspond in uration with the chemical properties of the substance .
The method of treatment here briefly indicated has been applied and tested to such an extent as proves its general applicability , and demonstrates that the principle involved is the rect one ; the conclusion that the fractions of the 1nolecular volume appropriated by the component atoms are approximately proportional to the valencies of the respective elements has also been substantiated .
by independent work on the subject of molecular volumes .
As the theory indicates that the crystalline forms exhibited by elated substances are derivable in a comparatively simple manner one from the other , it is desirable that groups of allied anic substances should be examined , as far as possibIe , by aid of the new method .
We have , therefore , studied the whole of the raphic data available for the derivatives of the symmetrical radicle , , namely , 1 : 3 : 5-trinitrophenyl , , and 'Trans .
Chem. Soc , vol. 89 , p. 16 , 5 ; 1907 , vol. , p. 1150 .
Jaeger , ' Trans. Chem. Soc 1908 , vol. 93 , p. 517 .
Le Bas , ' Trans. Chem. Soc 1907 , vol. 91 , p. 112 ; 'Phil .
Mag 1907 , vol. 14 , p. 324 .
Mr. G. Jerusalem and Prof. W. J. Pope .
[ Apr. 6 , for purposes of comparison have determined experimentally the geometrical constants of several related ances .
Two distinct assemblages can be devised , both in accordance with the clystallographic and chemical data , to represent the crystal structure of benzene and its simple derivatives ; it has been shown that both these forms of assemblage can be traced the simple derivatives of benzene .
The first is derivable from the closest-packed of equal spheres of hexagonal type , and , taking the volume of a mono- valent sphere of atomic influence as unity , the dimensions of a unit of the partitioning of , namely , of the benzene molecule itself , are determined by the following rectangular co-ordinates:\mdash ; These values constitute the so-called equivalence parameters for benzene and their product ; the valency volume , , is the sum of the valencies of the atoms composing the benzene molecule , The second form of met with among the simple derivatives of enzene is derived from the closest-packed assemblage of equal spheres of ubic type , and is therefore of rhombohedral marshalling ; it differs dimen- sionally from the hexagonal type by exhibiting a smaller value and a larger value than the former .
From the papers referred to it appears that among the simple derivatives of benzene the dimension less than do the other two , namely , ; it would therefore seem that the adjustment of the assemblage which restores close-packing after the introduction of a group into the benzene structure in general exerts itself mainly in the directions of and , and only affects but htly the dimension .
The direction of is that of the vertical dimension in the benzene molecule , that is to say , of the dimension perpendicular to the two planes containing the centres of the two sets of hydrogen atoms ordinarily numbered 1 : 3 : and 2 : 4 : 6 , respectively .
It will be shown below that this approximate constancy of the vertical or dimension is maintained in the more complex picryl derivatives .
Ammoniurn Picrate , Ammonium picrate crystallises from water in orthorhombic forms ; these lave been measured by Handl and by Laurent , S respectively assign to the substance the axial ratios:\mdash ; 'Trans .
Chem. Soc 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1692 .
, .
1699 .
'Ber . .
Akad .
Wien , ' 1858 , vol. 32 , p. 259 .
S 'Revue Scient vol. 9 , p. 26 .
1908 .
] Crystalline Form , etc. , of thoe Picryl and the mean values being : : : Crystals much more suitable for exact measurement than these are obtained by crystallising the salt from acetonle , in which it is fairly soluble ; on allowing the acetone solution to evaporate spontaneously at the ordinary temperature , large nsparent yellow crystals of hexagonal habit are deposited .
The bright yellow colour of the crystals thus produced is quite distinct from the red tint sometimes assumed by ammonium picrate .
* The forms and } are generally the best developed , and was only observed on one crystal ; the following results were obtained on measurement:\mdash ; Crystal System .
Orthorhombic .
Forms observed : , and The form has not previously been observed on ammonium picrate crystals .
The crystals exhibit a perfect cleavage on ; this is also the optic axial plane , and the axis is the acute bisectrix .
optic axial dispersion is very marked ; the angle for red is much larger than that for yellow The crystals deposited from water and from acetone are evidently of identical structure , for , on the axial ratios now iven , namely , : : in the form : : the result is practically identical with the mean of the measurements of Handl and Laurent , namely , * Silberrad , ' Trans. Chem. Soc 1908 , vol. 93 , p. 477 .
Mr. G. Jerusalem and Prof W. J. Pope .
[ Apr. 6 , On calculating the equivalence parameters of ammonium picrate from our determination of the axial ratios , taking the valency volume of the molecule , , as , the following values are obtained : For comparison with these equivalence parameters it is convenient to calculate those of potassium picrate ; this salt is orthorhombic with and by transposition the axial ratios may be obtained in the form The latter values show clearly the isomorphism of this salt with the previous one ; the equivalence parameters of potassium picrate , , with , are calculated from the last form of the axial ratios as It is seen that on passing from the potassium to the ammonium salt the principal increase amongst the equivalence parameters occurs in the directions and , whilst the value of to a smaller extent , namely , from to .
The dimension in the cases of these salts obviously corresponds to the dimension in benzene itself , and this dimension , as remarked above , is the one of the which tends to change least on simple substitution .
Ammonium picrate has the same valency volume , , as the orthorhombic 1 : 3 : initrobenzoic acid , , with the axial ratios : on interchanging in these axial ratios , and and , and and , these values become This set of axial ratios corresponds to the equivalence parameters The value again corresponds closely to that of ammonium picrate and to the value of benzene , so that on replacing the group , , in the salt by the group , , of the same valency volume , , the vertical benzene dimension is sensibly preserved .
The methyl ether of picric acid , 1 : 3 : 5-trinitroanisol , * Brugnatelli , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1895 , vol. 24 , p. 277 .
Friedlander , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
, vol. 1 , p. 1908 .
] Form , etc. , of the Picryl also has the same constitution and valency volume , , as ammonium picrate ; it crystallises in the monosymmetric system* with the axial ratios : These axial ratios may be transposed by to the planes ( 100 ) , ( 10-1 ) , and ( 110 ) the indices , ( 001 ) , and , respectively , and then become The equivalence parameters corresponding to these atios are or The value is again approximately equal to the value for benzene , and the substitution of the methoxyl groul ) , or , has effected but little in the dimensions of the crystal structure .
Picramide , , which may be arded as derived from ammonium picrate by the elimination of one molecule of water , crystallises in the monosymmetric system withT : Aftel dividing the length by two , so that the axial ratios become and culating the equivalence parameters , the valency volume as , the following values are obtained:\mdash ; : The value differs rather more than before from the value for benzene , but the value is almost the same as for ammonium picrate .
symmetrical trinitrotoluene , , has a valency volume two units less than that of ammonium picrate and trinitroanisol , namely , , and crystallises in the hombic system with On dividing the length by two , as in the previous case , so as to obtain the axial ratios in the form and calculating the equivalenoe parameters , the values are obbained:\mdash ; * Friedlander , 1879 , vol. 3 , connpare Jaeger , 1905 , vol. 40 , p. 565 .
Friedlander , loc. cit. Friedlander , .
ait Mr. G. Jerusalem and Prof. W. J. Pope .
[ Apr. 6 , In this case both the and values are nearly identical with those for ammonium picrate , and the effect of the change of valency volume is thrown , in the main , upon the direction Picryl chloride , , derived from picric acid by substituting chlorine for hydroxyl , has the valency volume , and crystallises in the monosymmetric system with On these axial ratios so that the planes 001 ) , , ( 101 ) , and ( 110 ) become respectively ( 103 ) , ( -101 ) , ( 301 ) , and ( 110 ) , the following values result : : The corresponding equivalence parameters are or The dimension in this case also retains approximately its previous value .
Styphnic acid , , the monohydroxy-derivative of picric acid , separates on spontaneous evaporation of its alcoholic solution in large straw-yellow prisms belonging to the hexagonal system ; the following results were obtained on measurement:\mdash ; Crystalline System .
Hexagonal .
Forms observed : { 10-11 } , { 10-10 } , , and { 0001 } .
The first angle quoted , namely , has been given by Ditscheiner as .
On examining a section cut perpendicular to the principal axis , the uniaxial interference figure of the normal type is seen ; the double refraction is strong and negative in sign .
No indications were obtained of the hemimorphous development described by Lehmann .
For the purpose of this substance with those discussed above , * Bodewig , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1879 , vol. 3 , p. 398 .
'Annalen , ' 1871 , vol. 168 , p. 247 .
'Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1882 , vol. 6 , p. 51 .
1908 .
] Crystalline Form , etc. , of the Picryl Deriratives .
its crystal form is conveniently referred to an orthorhombic axial system , in which the new ratio : : : The equivalence parameters of styphnic acid , for which , are thence calculated as : The value is again practically identical with value for benzene .
The symmetrical trinitllorogucinol crystallises with water , the crystals .
the composition , , and to the system with On increasing the length by one-half and referring the axial ratios to an orthorhombic system of axes just as in the previous case , the aatios : are obtained .
The equivalence parameters calculated frolu these values , taking , are The values for and are practically identical with those for styphnic acid , so that the morphotropic effect of introducing the roup , OH , , in place of a hydrogen atom in the styphnic acid is merely to increase the dimension .
Cases of very similar character to this occur the minerals of the humite series and between camphoric anhydride and the addition compound of camphoric acid with acetone The above results show that , by applying the method iven by Barlow and Pope to the raphic data , an extensive series of picryl derivativPs cnn be at once referred in a very simple manner to the hexagonal described for benzene .
The following picryl derivatives seem to be derived from the alternative benzene , that , namely , which possesses .
the rhombohedral type of marshalling .
The symmetrical trinitrobenzene , 1 : 3 : , is orthorhombic with the axial : On dividing the length by two , so as to obtain the axial ratios : Ditscheiner , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1881 , vol. , p. 646 .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1685 .
Friedlander , .
cit. , p. 170 .
Mr. G. Jerusalem and Prof. W. J. Pope .
[ Apr. 6 , and the equivalence parameters , with , the following values result:\mdash ; The value is in this case much smaller than among the previously discussed substances .
The 1 : 3 : 5-trinitrobenzene is identical in constitution and valency volume with the tribromo-l : 3-dinitro-5-methylbenzene , and the two substances are morphotropically very closely related ; the latter is monosymmetric with* : On interchanging the axial directions and , the axial ratios are obtained in the form : : These values correspond to the equivalence parameters The above numbers show that in the passage from the symmetrical trinitrobenzene to the dinitrotribromoto]uene of similar constitution , which results from replacing one nitro-group in the former by a methyl-group of the same valency volume , and replacing three hydrogen atoms by thBe bromine atoms , also of the same valency , practically no change is effected in the relative dimensions ; the equivalence parameters are scarcely cted by the substitution .
It has been already remarked that the differences in dimensions between the benzene assemblages of hexagonal and of rhombohedral marshalling are greatest in the directions of and , so that the dimension remains nearly the same in both .
A similar correspondence would be expected to hold among the derivatives of bsnzene , and it is found that the values , and , of the dinitrotribromotoluene and the trinitrobenzene respectively , are nearly identical with the value , , of picryl chloride , the three substances having the same valency volume .
These correspondences strongly indicate that the above two substances exhibit in their crystalline structure the second form of the benzene assemblage ; the same conclusion presumably holds for picric acid and picryl iodide , both of which crystallise in pseudo-cubic forms .
Picric acid crystallises in the orthorhombic system with and has the valency volume .
The equivalence parameters are * Jaeger , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1905 , vol. 40 , p. 360 .
Brugnatelli , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1895 , vol. 24 , p. 277 .
1908 .
] Crystalline Form , etc. , of the Picryl Derivative .
Picryl iodide , , with , crystallises in the fragonal system with On the length , and writing the axial ratios in orthorhombic form , the equivalenc , parameters are obtained as These values approximate very closely to those obtained for picric acid , and indicate that the replacement of iodine in picryl iodide by hydroxyl , to yield picric acid , in the corresponding assemblage bein slightly expanded in all directions , in accordance with the second geometrical property described by Barlow and Pope .
The equivalence parameters detelmined in the previous are collected in the table .
An inspection of the equivalence parameters of those picryl derivatives which assume the hexagonal type of marshalling shows , as previously noted , that the substitution in the benzene assemblage occurs so that groups which enter the benzene as , radicles are accommodated as the result mainly of an expansion of the in the directions of and ; the dimension of benzene can thus be distinctly traced throughout the series of picryl deriyatives as the dimension of the latter , This conclu* Fels , ' Zeitschr .
Kryst .
1900 , vol. 32 , p. 364 .
Traus .
Chem. Soc 1907 , vol. 91 , p. 1204 .
Form , etc of the Picryt Derivatives .
sion indicates that the columns , of supelposed layers of three ularly arranged carbon spheres , which form the skeleton of the crystalline benzene exist in all these crystalline substances , and that the corresponding assemblages are derived by pushing these columIlS apart and packing the substituting roups into the space thus provided .
The equivalence parameters now given furnish the data requisite to the construction of diagrams similar to those previously given by and Pope , which show the precise mutual arrangement of the consbituents of the substituting radicles in the picryl deriyatives .
If the conclusion drawn the existence of the columns of carbon spheres in these is of general application , it should be possible to detect the dimension for benzene throughout all the benzene derivatives of hexagonal marshalling .
No difficulty appears to exist in applying the method of treatment used in this paper to the more complex picryl derivatives .
Thus , acetamide picrate , , crystallises in the orthorhombic system with : : The valency volume , the corresponding equivalence parameters are : : : : Further , isoapiol picrate , , crystallises in the monosymmetric The valency volume , , and the corresponding equivalence parametel .
S are In each of these cases one of the three equivalence parameters has a value not reatly different from the value , , for benzene ; this would be expected if the columns of spheres present in the benzene remain intact in these compounds .
'Trans .
Chem. Soc 1906 , vol. 89 , p. 1695 .
Wyrouboff , ' Ann. Chim .
Phys 1895 ( 7 ) , vol. , p. 99 .
Boeris , ' Zeitsch .
Kryst .
1905 , vol. 40 , p. 106 .

