]\gt ; Mr. S. A. Sworn .
" " Researches in Absolute Mercurial Thermometry By the late S. A. SwoItN , .
Communicated by H. B. DIXON , April 21 , \mdash ; fiead June 15 , 1899 .
( Abstract , prepared at the request of the Council by SCHUSTEP .
, F.R.S. , December , 1899 .
) The experimental portion of this work consists of the careful comparison of six thermometers , with the object of the effects of capillarity , and in the second place of obtaining a comparison between thermometers made of English flint glass with those of French ' ' verre \ldquo ; or Jena normal glass , therefore indirectly with the scale .
The instruments employed consisted of a Tonnelot " " verre dur\ldquo ; thermometer , to be referred to as No. 4976 , an English flint glass ( No. by J. J. Hicks , two normal thermometers ( Nos. 2218 and 2219 ) of Jena by Gerhardt of Bonn , and two calorimetric thermometers Nos. 2220 and 2221 of Jena by erhardt , with a range from to C. The Tonnelot instrument is divided on the transparent stem into tenth degrees , and is cylindrical in the bore .
The other thermometers have enamelled backs , and are divided on the stem half millimetres .
At the time the latter instruments were obtained elliptical bores were.the only ones procurable , but care was taken that the bore was not unduly flattened , and was smooth in contour .
The author considers the readings taken with these thermometers to be quits trustworthy .
The ratio of the maior to the minor axis of the bore was about 2 for the Jena glass thermometers and 3 for 711,179 .
In each case the bulb ( without enamel ) was fused to the stem .
Ampoules were voided in all the instruments .
The calibration corrections were obtained in the usual way , a micrometer beiIlg used to measure the ends of the thread .
The eduction was made by the Neumann-Thiessen method .
All readings other than those calibration were made with a telescope magnifying eighteen to twenty-four tinles , the eye-piece of which was provided with a micrometer scale by Zeiss .
With the aid of this eye-piece , which serves to further subdivide the thermometer divisio11s , the readings agreed to mm. Several readings were always taken , generally three for zero readings , six for the indications in steam , twenty-one for coefficients of external pressure , fifty-four for coefficients of internal pressure ; twenty-seven of zero and fifty-four in steam for the fundamental internal correction , and ninety of comparison and eighteen of zero on each lment during the comparisons .
The flcs Absolutc Hcrcnrial c ' probable error of the separate resuIts for the various constants is bout C. of Coefficient of Extern \mdash ; It is to determine the pressure coefficient by suspending the thermometer in a tube , the pressure within which can ) rapidly changed from atmospheric pressure to one of few centimetres of mercury .
A sudden diminution of pressure ' causes fall in the ations of the thermometer , in the absence of capillary effects wollld measure the so-called coefficient of exterlffi pressure .
But the fall of thermometer ) eing accompallied by a in the shape of the meniscus , the readings before and after the of not directly comparable .
If the meniscus is normal at pressure ( which can be realised in the experiment , by tor a slowly rising temperature ) , we must add to the at the low pressure a certain constant , whioh represents the difference in the eadings of thermometer between a ising and thread .
Hence ( SK)/ p will be the corrected coefficient of external pressure ( ) .
If ten sets of observntions are , with different changes of pressure iving erent f of the thermometer we may put hencc , In the actual observations the nges of which takc3 place between the readings must , of course , be allowed for , and the tions only hold if these challges are so slow that at the low pressure the actual temperature has not overtaken the apparent temperature at the moment the reading is taken .
Previous observers llot eing interested directly in the quantity , have their experiment so that the readings of low pressure were only taken after time sufficient to allow the rising temperature to have its effects , so that the thread was rising in observations .
Mr. Sworn , on the other hand , wishing to determine and simultaneously , had to arrange the experiment so that at low pressures the hydrostatic pressure in the bulb was the same as with a falling thread .
The following table ives an idea of the consistency of the results obtained :\mdash ; Mean mm. The value of for the various thermometers was found to be as follows:\mdash ; Thermometer .
K. Mr. Sworn concluded from his results that is a oonstant not affected by a change in the rate of rise in temperature , and not appreciably different in different parts of the tube , if the valus of over a space of several millimetres is always taken .
Fundamental Interval the Coo .tficient of Internal Presswre.\mdash ; The zeros were determined by plunging the thermometer into a mixture of finely pounded ice and distilled water .
Samples of ice were frequently prepared from distilled water , which ] had for some time been kept in a partial vacuum of 50\mdash ; 100 mm. Norwegian ice was also used , and within the limits of experimental error was always found to give the same results as the specially prepared ice .
The purity uf the ioe was invariably controlled by tesbing for chlorides , by the Nessler test , and by evaporation to yness in a platinum basin .
In order to be sure Researches in Absolute Mercurial that the two rieties of ice would give the same results , control determinations were made vilh Nos. 2220 and 2221 , the indications of which could be relied upon to show differences exceeding C. The ratus for taking the zeros did not differ materially from thnt generally used and described by Guillaumc .
The thermometer was plumged into the ice within one or two minutes tfter removing it from the hypsonleter , whilst the bulb was still at .
The thermometer was held vcrtically the hand until the mercury had fallen sufficiently for the bulb to be immersed with safety into the ice .
5--10 mm. of the stem above C. were exposed to the ice , adjustment to the vervical made , the thermometer raised so that the image of the nleniscus was just clear of the ice , and the readings taken .
The stem was always well tapped .
The indications of thermometers the temperature of saturated steam were investigated in form of rotary hypsometer which presome slight difference from that used at the Bureau Interational .
The difference consists in an improvement of the position and construction of the manometer hich measures the pressre excess of the .
In the Bretetlil instrtlment the manometer keeps vertical position while that part of the hypsometer lvhioh holds the thermometer may be placed in either a vertical or horlzontal.position .
construction renders it for the manometer openlng to be some distance from the thermometer bul the two bein by a nal.row passage through which the stoam has to ) The manometer } ill , therefore , register too pressure .
To correct for this the steam in passing into the c.oncfensers when it is at atmoheric pressure , is forced through exactly passage , so that the hypsometer pressnre may ) assllmed to be half way between the pressure indicated by the manometer and the mospherlc pressure .
Mr. worn gave np the convenience of ving the manolneter fixed position and secured thereby greater certainty measurlng the tctllal steam pressure at the thermometer bulb .
Arrangc.ments had to be made , of course , for the manometer to turn so as to keep wtttcr vertical when the tube is placed in the horizontal tion .
Two manometers were used , o1te connected with the innel mber holding the thermometer , and the other with the outer steam iackct , but no ence in pressure could ever be detected .
to event the formation of )lesome water drops in the maometors , short and wide chambers were interposed between them the .
It was thus ascertained that the pressure excess of the could be kept mm. of mercury .
A distillation of mercnry was voided by leaving the ast two degrees of the thread unexposed until it was thought that the } zero had attained a constant position .
Tapping was always resorted to , but the author has been mable to satisfy himself that it makes any mometers , the coefficient of int pressure may be determined , as in the vertical position the hydrostatic pressure of the mercury acts on the bulb .
The internal pressure correction is conn ected with the extel'nal pressure ) ection by the relation hcrc is the compressibility of glass .
The following table gives the comparison between ths observed and calcnlated value of ; in degrees per millimetre pressnre of mercury .
The column headed shows the length of the mercury column between the boiling point and the ccntre of the bul The observed values of were obcained by dividing the differences in the observed reading ( horizontal\mdash ; verticalposition ) by the height of the mercury column above the centre of the ) .
No correction was made for the fact that when the of mercury was raised from the horizontal to the verticaJ position , the thread descended , and the reading therefore corresponded to one taken with a falling tempsrature , while in the horizontal position the reading corresponded to one taken with risin temperature .
Mr. Sworn from the good agreement between the observed and calculated of that the effect of capillarity is somehow eliminated in these observations .
Direct observations were made on this point .
If the hypsometer is observed at an an to the horizontal , the readings should differ by the quantity according as the thermometel is brought into its position from the horizontal , or from .
the vcrtical .
The observed are , however , for the most part , and in any case a mere fraction of K. If , further , the thermometer is gradually raised from the horizontal position , the observed differences in the readings should be expressible in the form , where is the total height of the mercury column , but in reality they are well expressed by leaving out of account .
The author remarked on this point:\mdash ; " " The eflect of capillarity on the advancing or receding columns is tlnquestionably to compensation , either by vibrntion or by Researches Absolute momentary alterations in temI ) erature or pressure not registered by the manometers .
I am personally inclined to think that we dealing in the hypsometer with steam under what I might term oscillatory conditions of temperature and pressure , the effect of which is to reduce all the steam indications of the thermometer to what they would be with a receding menisous .
Within narrow limits the mercnry may advance along the tube , but of necessity there will subsequently be a capillary force erected which will , the same narrow limits ( viz. , K ) , prevent its return .
Comparison of Thermomefers.\mdash ; The in whioh the oomparisons were conducted consisted of a cylindrral tank surrou1lded , except at the top , by a jacket kept at constant temperature , by a circulation of water heated in a thermo-regulator .
The capacity of the tank 5litres , and it could be heated or cooled independently , and its temperature set a few degrees above or below that of the iacket .
The contained water would then heat or cool at a definite and constant rate .
The upper part of the tank has two plate glass sides let parallel to one another and at right angles to the reading telescope .
Two series of comparisons were made .
In the the normal thelmometers were compared at , and C. At each temperature the instruments were compared , two at a time in six pairs , the zeros being taken immediately after the second set of readings for each pair .
In the second series the calorimetric thermometers , 2220 and 2221 were also utilised , the former in closed series with the normals .
These comparisons were made at of from zero to and at .
It is not necessary refer further to the results obtained with the calorimetric thermometers , as it was that the water in the comparison tank was slightly different at different levels according as the tank was at a temperature .
or lower than that of the atmosphere .
The bulbs of the calorimetric thermo ' meters being placed at different and varying levels as compared with the bulbs of the standard thermometer , the results were vitiated , but this source of error did not affect the rison of the standards .
In the reduction of observations Mr. Sworn reduced readings to a falling meniscus .
Assuming that the actual observations at the freezing and boiling points of water are those corresponding to a falling thread , he adds to such reading in the comparison the constant previously determined by him .
From the resuIt of his investigations , Mr. Sworn drew the conclusion that there is no systematic difference between the indications of the verre dnr and the JenR thermometers , and that the flint glass thermometers give indications which are practically identical with those of the hydrogen thermometer .
[ The details of the observations are deposited in the Archives of the Society .
] VOL. LXVI .
in Absolute Merourial Thermometry .
Note on the bove Paper .
By ARTHUR SCHUSTER , F.B.S. eceived January 4 , 1900 .
Mr. Sworn 's investigations raise some questions of importance in the behaviour of mercury thermometers .
The irregularities which are observed in the behaviour of the mercury thread of a thermometer while descendin have led observers to take accurate measurements only in a slowly rising temperature .
To avoid tencies , the standard temperatures ought also to be measured under conditions which secure the normal formation of the mercury meniscus , which is that of a rising thread .
At the temperature of boiling water it is supposed that this can be done by stopping momentarily the flow of steam , so as to lower the temperature before bringing the mercury thread to its final position .
At the freezing point a difficulty has lways been felt about the influence of effects of capillarity , and there is no doubt that this is the weakest point at present in the accurate measurement of temperatures lvith mercury thermometers . .
Sworn 's investigations led him to conclude that if the fall of a thermometer is slow ( i.e. , when the meniscus travels its diameter in abont one minute ) , the fall is regular , and not a series of disjointed .
The difference in ths readings of a falling and rising there . .
mometer being , according to him , a constant ( K ) , which can be determined by the method described in his paper , it should be possible to reduce readings taken lvith a rising meniscus to readings with a falling by simply adding to the reading .
Mr. Sworn 's contention was that this should always be done , because the freezing point is approached from above , and the boiling point also , according to him , corresponds to a measurcment taken lvith a falling thread .
His observations on the behaviour of thermometers in the hypsometer are of considerable importance , but some confirmatio1l is required , because Guillaume an experiment which is not in agreement witfi Mr. Sworn 's conohlsion , that the difference in the readings between a Qing disappears when the instrumont is susp 3nded in steam .
On the contrary , Guillaume determines the amount of the diii'erence by observations in the hyp.ometer , and states it to be between and with the standard Tonne elot thermometers .
I am to think that the truth lies between the two extremes , and that the effects of pillarity still appJ'eciabls in the steam , but decidedly smaller than at lower temperatnres .
1 am lcd to this conclusion through my observations at the freezing point with Tonnelot thermometers , which have always made me think that Guillaume must have underrated effects of capillarity .
But even granting for a moment that there is no effect of capillarity in the psometer , Qhould uot be inclined to accept .
Sworn 's explanation of the fact , which is that the temperature of archeS in Absolute Mcrcurial Therrwmetry .
the steam is htly fluctuating , and that when it is accidentally the temperature rises , but when it is low , stiction prevents the from falling , so that the ultimats effect is to maks the thermomster indicate too high by an amount equal to K. There is no evidence in support of such a fluctuation .
It is at least equally probable that stiction is actually of smaller importance at the higher temperature , where the distillation of mercury , which is known to take place from the free surface , must assist the formation of ths normal meniscus .
's method of reducing tric observations depsnding on the complete disappearance of at the boiling point , cannot fore be accepted without further evidence , but the matter is one well worthy of careful investigation .
Mr. Sworn was perfectly right in saying that the three readi1lgs , viz. , freezing point , temperature , and boiling point , ought to be taken under like .
conditions of the but the proper way of accomplishing this to alter the usual practice oi fixing the zero by substituting a method similar to that of determining the freezing points of solutions .
If the water is first slightly undercooled , and then brought to the proper temperature by the introduction of a few ice crystals , a great improvement in zero point minations would be effected . .
Sworn 's comparisons between thermometers of different composition were carried out with great care , and may be considered reliable , as far as the instruments used are concerned , but it is not quite certain in how far different thermometers purporting to be made of the same glass may differ .
Thus the majority of the Jena glass thermometers carefully studied at Berlin showed a difference of over at when compared with the French hard glass , but one instrument agreed throughout its range with the latter .
while another differed in the other direction .
Marek , at Vienna , did not find any systematic difference between the French and Jena glass , and Mr. Sworn 's thermometers also show a practical coincidence .
Mr. Sworn 's evidenco that his instruments were really made of the Jena glass rests on the assurance of the maker ( Gerhardt , of Bonn ) , but the anomalous behaviour of two of the Berlin thermometers leaves a doubt as to how far blowers are careful to guard ainst accidental mixing up of different sorts of glass .
It is not possible , moreover , to compare directly the result of Mr. Sworn 's comparison that of othel .
observers , on account of the difference in the method of reduction , but , as far as I can see , the discrepancy would have been greater if Mr. Sworn had reduced his observations in the way adopted at Sevres and Charlottenburg .
The same remark applies with greater force to Mr. Sworn 's reduction of the flint glass indica tions to those of the hydrogen thermometer .
He uses Chappuis 's numbers for the relation between the hard glass and hydro* ' Zeits . .
Instrumentenkunde .
' vol. p. ( 1895 ) .
VOL. 94 roceedings and List of read .
gen scales .
But Chappuis 's numbers only apply when the glass ther11lometers are treated and read in the way in which he treated them in his comparisons .
That is the great advantage in using the Tonnelot thermometsr .
It is not an absolute but an intermediate standard .
It is immaterial whether Chappuis 's method of treating a glass thermometer can be improvsd upon by adopting a different way of obt , ainin the zsro , or by making corrections for effects of capillarity .
It is sufficient to know that consistent results can be obtained if the thermometers are always treated in the same way , and whether that way is good or bad , it is the only one which can be used , if we wish to refer the temperature measurement to Chappuis 's hydrogen thermometer .
For this reason , and also because we have not at present any guarantee that flint glass thermometers agree sufficiently in composition to identical results , Mr. Sworn 's conclusions cannot at present be acce pted as final .
Mr. Chree 's experiencetends in the direction of indicatin differences in the behaviour of different thermometers nominally made of the same glass . .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read : .
" " Mathematical Contributions to the Theory of Evolution.\mdash ; On the Law of Reversion By Professor KARL PEARSON , F.R.S. .
" " On the Mechanism of Gelation in Reversible Colloidal Systems By W. B. HAItDY .
Communicated by F. H. NEVILLE , F.R.S. III .
" " A Preliminary Investigation of the Conditions which determine the Stability of IrreversibIs Hydrosols By W. B. HARDY .
Communicated by F. H. NEVILLE , F.R.S. IV .
" " On the Effects of Strain on the Thermo-electrio Qualities of Metals .
Part II By Dr. MAGNUS MACLEAN .
Communi- cated by LORD KELVIN , F.R.S. .
" " On the Periodicity in the Electric of Chemical Elements .
Preliminary Notice By Professor JAGADIS CHUNDER BOSE .
Communicated by LORD RAYLEIGH , F.RS .
\mdash ; * ' Phil. Mag vol. 45 , p. 216 1898 ) .

