351 The Vacuolationof the Blood-platelets : Experimental Proof of their Cellular Nature .
By H. C. Boss , late Surgeon Boval Navy .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received May 12 , 1909 .
) On July 27 , 1907 , a paper appeared in the 'Lancet by Ronald Ross , S. Moore , and C. E. Walker , entitled " A New Microscopical Diagnostic Method and some Simple Methods for Staining Liquid Blood .
" It described new methods for the staining of blood-cells in vitro\#151 ; notably the agar-jelly method\#151 ; by mixing polychrome methylene blue with agar and preparing a film : blood-cells spread upon this will absorb the stain , and if the jelly is suitably prepared the different morphological elements of the cells can be readily distinguished .
It also described how the leucocytes , after they had been resting on the jelly for a short time , developed bright red spots in their cytoplasm ; and it was suggested that the spots might be centrosomes .
The spots appear as bright scarlet points , and resemble closely what one would imagine that centrosomes would look like if they could be seen in polymorphonuclear leucocytes .
The " red spots , " however , could not be found in the blood-platelets , and believing them to be centrosomes , the authors suggested in their paper in the ' Lancet ' that if they could be demonstrated in the blood-platelets , it would settle the nature of these bodies , and close an old existing controversy .
About two months ago I was fortunate enough to observe these " red spots " in the blood-platelets , and if the following experiment is repeated the spots can be produced in them in every specimen .
Prepare a neutral solution which contains 3 per cent , sodium citrate , 1 per cent , sodium chloride , and 1 per cent , morphine hydrochloride .
Draw up into a capillary tube a volume of this solution , and add to it an equal volume of blood drawn freshly from the finger .
After allowing the two fluids to mix , incubate the tube at 37 ' C. for five hours .
A film of agar-jelly must now be prepared , which contains a sufficiency of Unna 's stain to stain deeply the granules of polymorphonuclear leucocytes when they are spread upon it .
One suitable formula for preparing this jelly is given in the'Lancet ' for January 16 and February 6 , 1909 , and another suitable formula will be found in the first equation in a paper recently published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' B , vol. 81 , 1909 , p. 102 .
Place a drop of the incubated blood and morphine solution on to a cover glass , which should be inverted and allowed to fall flat on to the agar film .
In about Mr. H. C. Boss .
[ May 12 , 15 minutes ' time it will be seen that probably all the blood-platelets will show one or more bright red spots in them , and these spots are identical in appearance ( except that they are usually smaller ) with those seen in the cytoplasm of leucocytes when blood is examined by this vitro method by which the spots in the larger cells were observed by R. Ross , Moore , and Walker .
It is , however , necessary to state that the spots are not centrosomes .
At first I believed them to be such , but further investigation showed the suggestion to be erroneous .
They are diffusion vacuoles .
If the diffusion of stain into leucocytes is accelerated by heat or alkali so as to cause maximum staining without actually killing the cells , then stained liquid also passes into the colloid cytoplasm and remains suspended in it as a " red spot .
" A description of the nature of these spots was published in the ' Journal of Physiology , ' September , 1908 .
These vacuoles get gradually larger , and when the leucocytes die , the spots suddenly disperse owing to the liquefaction of the cytoplasm .
The suggestion of R. Ross , Moore , and Walker , that if the spots could be seen in the blood-platelets it would be proof of their cellular nature , was evidently based on the assumption that the spots were centrosomes .
Since they are not centrosomes , it may be said that their appearance in the blood-platelets now falls into insignificance .
But the spots in the platelets also get larger and then disperse after an interval , and their disappearance is practically coincident with the disappearance of the vacuoles in the leucocytes , which is caused by the liquefaction of the cytoplasm occurring at death .
Morphia also causes extreme vacuolation of the leucocytes .
As a matter of fact , studying the question from another aspect also shows that their vacuolation is proof that the blood-platelets are cells .
When fresh blood is placed on the jelly , and no morphia is employed , the leucocytes do not become extremely vacuolated , nor do the platelets develop the spots .
Why should morphia have this effect ?
It was shown in a former paper* that different cells have different coefficients of diffusion , and that , in blood-cells , approaching death causes a lowered coefficient .
It is obvious that the vacuoles will appear more readily , that is , liquid will diffuse more readily into cells which have a lowered coefficient of diffusion .
It is apparent , therefore , that the blood-platelets must be cells , or rather must be composed of living protoplasm , for their vacuolation is produced experimentally by the action of the poison , as morphia , in causing the gradual approach of death , also lowers the coefficient of diffusion .
Morphia lowers * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 81 , 1909.- 1909 .
] The Vacuolation of the Blood-platelets .
the coefficient more than any substance that has been tried as yet , and it appears to have a greater effect on the cytoplasm than other poisons .
As all the platelets in a specimen usually become vacuolated , I believe that they all belong to one class of cell , derived from one source .
In view of the vacuolation , the precipitate theory of the blood-platelets becomes untenable .
Another theory , that they are the extruded nuclei of red cells , can also , I think , be dimissed .
Former researches have shown that the nucleus of a cell is its " higher centre .
" It is difficult to believe that a cell can thrust out its nucleus .
Moreover , in the paper in ' The Journal of Physiology , ' already referred to , it was stated that the spots in leucocytes were never seen to be connected with the nucleus .
The platelets , therefore , can hardly be nuclei .
The nuclear theory is , I believe , the outcome of the examination of dead structures .
Blood-platelets are never seen emerging from red-cells when in vitro methods are employed .
I believe that the theory that the blood-platelets are fragments of leucocytes is the correct one ; they have the same coefficient of diffusion as those cells , and usually contain a few granules which have the same staining rate as those of the leucocytes .
When blood is placed on jelly which excites amoeboid movement in leucocytes , * the platelets have been seen to extrude and retract pseudopodia .
On a few occasions , a pseudopodium has been seen to become separated , and the fragment appears to be identical with the other platelets seen in the specimen .
It may contain clear cytoplasm , a few granules , or even a lobe of the nucleus .
* The Lancet , ' Januax-y 16 , 1909 .

