An Account of the Relistian Tin Mine .
By Mr. Joseph Carne , in a Letter to Davies Giddy , Esq. M.P. F.R.S. Read May 7 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 293 .
] Mr. Davies Giddy communicated a letter from Mr. Joseph Came , giving an account of the Relistian Mine in Cornwall , in which rounded pebbles were found at the depth of seventy-five fathoms from the surface .
The description is accompanied with a section of the mine , and plan of the lode .
The lode has been seen at various depths , from twelve to ninety fathoms , but its width then diminishes rapidly toward the east , but more gradually toward the west .
The substances not metallic are schist , chlorite , and quartz .
There is an engine-shaft at eight fathoms from the lode , on the north side from which levels are driven to the lode in the direction of a flucan , or cross lode , which cut the main lode nearly at 450 from N.W. to S.E. The distance , in this oblique direction , is about fifteen fathoms ; for the first ten fathoms there was only one flucan , of four inches width .
Then it became divided into four parts , so much divergent from each other , that at the depth of seventy-five fathoms the extreme branches extended twelve feet in width ; where the flucan reached the lode at this depth , there was first discovered a little copper , and then a body of pebbles , the section of which was about twelve feet square .
In this part of the lode the schist greatly predominates ; of course ( says Mr. Came ) the pebbles are schistose , cemented in some parts by chlorite , in others by oxide of tin , which is generally crystallized , and in some of the crevices there is a little copper pyrites .
The pebbles did not continue in a body to the height of more than two fathoms ; but scattered bunches were found four fathoms above , and six fathoms below the place where they were first discovered .
At the depth of sixty-five fathoms , and in the lode adjacent to the flucan , on each side , had been found also a great number of schistose stones ; but these were angular fragments , not rounded ; nor was there any tin in or about them .

