The tendency of the arsenic and pnosphoric acids to form subsesquisalts with the oxides of silver and lead is well known ; correspond ?
ing salts with alkaline bases also exist .
The author describes the method of forming the subarseniate and subphosphate ofsoda , and their properties ; and shows that they are subsesquisalts , containing one proportion and a half of base to one of acid .
They are the only known soluble salts of that constitution ; and it is remarkable , that the acid of the subphosphate of soda is not convertible into pyrophosphoric acid by the action of heat , like the acid of the common phosphate of soda .
This may be explained on the hypothesis , that phosphoric acid , in contradistinction to pyrophosphoric acid , contains an atom of water , which stands in a basic relation to the acid , and which may be replaced by an atom of any of the usual bases .
Hence also arises the disposition of phosphoric acid to form subsesquisalts ; for the common phosphate , used as a precipitant , exchanges its basic water for a fixed base ; and for this reason , likewise , phosphate ofsoda , or any neutral phosphate , cannot be made anhydrous without becoming a pyrophosphate ; but the subphosphates having an excess of base , may be anhydrous , as Stromeyer observed ; and indeed they are not con ?
vertible into pyrosalts .
The acid furmed by the combustion of phos ?
phorus in air or oxygen , constitutes a third modification of phosphoric acid , distinguished by peculiar properties , and which , from the difference of its saturating power , in relation to that of the phosphoric and pyrophosphoric acid , the author considers as a polymeric phosphoric acid ; ?a term lately applied by Berzelius to bodies of the same rela ?
tive composition , but differing in their combining proportions .
The author devoted much time and attention to determine the quantity of water of combination in the foregoing subsalts ; but the result he obtained , namely 50 22 per cent. , is not easily reconciled with our best data for atomic weights .
It is , however , pretty nearly compatible with 23 or 24 atoms of water , according to Berzelius 's weight of the atom of arsenic ; and if the latter estimate be correct , it is curious that the subarseniate differs from the neutral arseniate , merely by the substitution of an atom of soda for an atom of water ; for the latter salt contains 25 atoms of water .
The author 's experiments on the composition of the subarseniate of soda , ?
the results being reduced to the hypothesis , that it contains 23 atoms of water , ?
represent it as formed , ( per cent. ) of arsenic acid , 27*69 ; soda , 22*55 ; water , 49*75 .
The subphosphate of soda was found to consist ( per cent. ) ofsubsesquiphosphate , 43*97 ; water , 56*03 ; the soda in the salt amounting to 24*87 .
The author attempted to determine the quantity of phosphoric acid in this salt , by direct precipitation by nitrate of silver , but could not obtain rigorously accurate results ; for the subphosphate of silver car ?
ried down with it a portion of the nitrate , which washing could not entirely separate .
He likewise failed in his endeavours to obtain pure subphosphate and subarseniate of potash .
The suharseniate of barytes appeared , by a single experiment , to be composed , ( per cent. ) of arsenic acid , 32*06 ; barytes , 67*94 : from which the salt would seem to contain an excess of base ; for by theory , the subsesquiarseniate of barytes should be composed of , acid , 33*4 ; base , Q6'6 .
When solution of muriate of lime is poured into an excess of solution of phosphate of soda , or when phosphate of lime , dissolved in muriatic acid , is precipitated by ammonia , a gelatinous mass is formed , which has been called the subphosphate of lime of bones ; the composition of which is singular , consisting , on the simplest view that can be taken of it , of 3 atoms of phosphoric acid , and 4 of lime .
It was noticed by Berzelius .
The author thinks the anomalous composition of this salt may in some measure be explained by considering it as consisting of 1 atom of the neutral , and 2 atoms of the subsesquiphosphate .
According to Berzelius , calcined ox-bones are composed of such a phosphate of lime , with a little carbonate of lime ; but a doubt arises of the accu ?
racy of this view , from the fact , that the presence of carbonic acid in the calcined phosphate of bones is no proof of the existence of that acid in the same , previous to calcination .
The earth of bones , after calcination at a high temperature , contains phosphoric , and not pyrophosphoric , acid ; the excess of base preventing the transition .
The author 's analysis of subarseniate of lead , formed by the gradual addition of solution of acetate of lead to solution of subarseniate of soda , afforded a striking confirmation of the atomic weight of arsenic , deduced by Berzelius from his analysis of arsenious acid by sulphur .

