" Note on the Blood-vessel-system of the Retina of the Hedgehog ( being a fourth Contribution to the Anatomy of the Retina ) .
" By J. W. HULKE , F.R.S. , Assistant-Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital and the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital .
Received May 26 , 1868* .
The distribution of the retinal blood-vessels in this common British Insectivore is so remarkable that I deem it worthy of a separate notice-only capillaries enter the retina .
The vasa centralia pierce the optic nerve in the sclerotic canal , and , passing forwards through the lamina cribrosa , divide , at the bottom of a relatively large and deep pit in the centre of the intraocular disk of the nerve , into a variable number of primary branches , from three to six .
These primary divisions quickly subdivide , furnishing many large arteries and veins , which , radiating on all sides from the nerve-entrance towards the ora retinre , appear to the observer 's unaided eye as strongly projecting ridges upon the inner surface of the retina .
When vertical sections parallel to and across the direction of these ridges are examined with a quarter-inch objective , we immediately perceive that the arteries and veins lie , throughout their entire course , upon the inner surface of the membrana limitans interna retinee , between this and the membrana hyaloidea of the vitreous humour , and that only capillaries penetrate the retina itself .
In sections of the retina across the larger vessels the membrana limitans may be seen as a clean distinctly unbroken line passing over the divided vessels , with which it does not appear to have any direct structural connexion .
The relation of the hyaloidea to the large vessels seems to be more intimate , but its exact nature can be less certainly demonstrated , owing to the extreme tenuity of this membrane .
In my best sections I saw the hyaloidea also crossing the large vessels , as does the limitans , but excessively delicate extensions of the hyaloidea appeared to me to lose themselves upon the vessels .
The capillaries , shortly after their origin , bend outwards away from the large vessels , and , piercing the retina vertically to its stratification in a direction more or less radial from the centre of the globe , and branching dichotomously in the granular and inner granule-layers , they form loops , the outermost of which reach the intergranule-layer .
As they enter the retina the membrana limitans interna is prolonged upon the capillaries in the form of a sheath , which is wide and funnel-like at first , but soon embraces the vessels so closely as to become indistinguishable from their proper wall ; so that , notwithstanding the existence of a sheath , there is no perivascular space about the retinal capillaries , such as His has described in the brain or spinal cord , and has stated to occur in the retina and elsewhere .
In all other mammals , except the hedgehog , as far as my present knowledge extends , the arteries , veins , and capillaries lie in the retina .
In fish , amphibia , reptiles , and birds , however , as H. Miiller and others ( myself as regards amphibia and reptiles ) have shown , the retina is absolutely nonvascular , the absence of proper retinal blood-vessels being compensated for in fish , amphibia , and some reptiles by the vascular net which in these animals channels the hyaloidea , and by the highly vascular pecten present in other reptiles and in birds .
Thus it is possible to divide vertebrates into two classes , according as their retina is vascular or non-vascular ; and these classes would be connected by the hedgehog , the larger branches of whose vasa centralia lying upon the membrana limitans in intimate relation with the hyaloidea , represent the equivalent vessels of the hyaloid system , which forms so exquisite a microscopic object in the frog ; whilst the capillary vessels channelling the retinal tissues occupy the same position which they do in most mammalia .
[ The drawings in illustration of this paper are preserved for reference in the Archives of the Royal Society .
]

