XtT Of s Evaporation .
Ay Jollrz Andresr de LUCJ Esq. F.R.sF Read June 2S , 1792 .
35N my last papers t)n hygrometry , I have considered .
moisture in the air as a modification of a particular fluil , prodllced by the estaporation of water , composed of water and fire , lnixe\#163 ; S *with the air , but independent ol it .
Hovexrer there was alnore common theory of tltlat pherionenotl , in WthiCh evapo ration was attributed to a dissolution of n7ater by air : b-ut as an inquiry into the cause of evaporation belollgs more to 11ygrology than to hygrometry , I made vllen no remark ota thatsubject ; having in view some experiments which were to ascertain a particular point fundamental to it .
Since that time I have made those experiments , sThich are the object of this paper ; but before I relate them , it is necessary to esplain he^r they connect hygrometry with 11ygrology ; which will be by stating ; the principlesof those two branches of ex perimental philosophy according to my systelu .
From the time I fixed my at tention on evaporation , and its various consequences , I was led to think , that the kind of dissolution of water , observed in those phaerlomena , was operated by fire without any in+erference of air : and among other reasons for that opinion the most decisive for lue was , that 5 4OO : earery liquid cools when it evaporates ; for I considered that circumstance as a proof ; thatO the portion of the liquid which then disappears is carried away by a quantity of fire proceeding finotn the lXquid itself ... The general phnomena of evaporation and moisture had sbeen my only guidesy when I first published Xny opinxon in that respect in my work Rech .
slfr les Mod .
de IAtnaosI)here : but it was then in a very imperi : Ect state and I owe much to Mr. WATT } the inventor of the new steam engine for the degree of precision which that theory has acquired in my last vork , IdUes sllr la Meteorologie .
In particular I am indebted to that truly ingenious and learned experimental philosopher for an immediate proof of laly fundamental opinion , resulting &gt; om an experiment , that he was so good as to repeat in my presence , and which del:nonstrates that in the common evaporation of water in open air the quantity of heat lost by the mass ) bears to the quatltity of water carried away , a proportiola still greater than that which is fbund in the steam produced by boiling water .
Tilerefbre there is no reason to doubt*that steam i-s fbrmed in the first as in the last of those cases .
It is true , that in some other respects } appearances are very different ill those twosclasses of phxnometla ; but those diirences proceed from well detertnined causes , as wtill appear by the fbllowing abstract of my theory .
On the Laws of Rgroky. .
Whellever water is in a state of evaporation , arl expansible fluid , composed of water and fires is produced .
TQ that Buid , the object of hygrology and hygrometry , I shall give the name of stea-mn in enrery case .
2 .
As long as steain Vexists , it has a pcwer of pressures as air -itself ; but it does not belong to the class of permanent fluids , for it may be decomposed by a certain degree of pressure or cooling , according to determined laws. .
The characteristic property of steams from which proceeds its decoulpcesition by those causes , is , the havlng a fixed maximulil of density by a given temperature , which increases witho the telnperature Thusa when that fluid isarrifired at the maximum correspondent to a certOain temperaturey it must undergo a decompo$ition , either bJr cooling , because its actual maxitnum is toQ great for the new temperature ; or by an increaseof pressure ( the tettiperature remaining the same ) , because its density beeomes too great for that tetuperature .
4 .
rrhe degree of pressure exercised by steam , or which it can support stithout decomposition being , cgterzs paribusX proport-iot1al to its density , depends , in the same maaner , on temperature .
S Steam is formed by every temperature , when a previous space permits its expalsion ; but , according to the above law , no steanl can be formed when , for its formation , it ought to repeI an obstacle superior , ill the smallest degree to the maximum of its-power by tilesactual tetxperature ; and if it has been formed under a pressure not exctedilig its powers if that pressure ilicreases , or the ternperature lowers , ever so littleX it is totally decomposed .
6 .
This is what determines both the degree of heat by which urater can begin to boil , and the variations of that degree , by those-of pressure .
For ebullition is that state of a liquid in which steam is continually formed within itself ; notwithstanding the external pressure ; and as such an expansive power in stearn depends on a certain degree of density , its production requires , in the liquid , a certain degree of heat,.which thus is determi3:ed by the degree-of pressure .
As for the fixity of the degree of heat in water boiling under a con-stant pressure , it proceeds from an equilibriurn constantly produced betsveenv the quantity of fire which contirlues to penetrate the water and that which goes off in the steam ; the differences which happen in the first of those quantities , having no other sensible eSect , than to produce a more or less rapid formation of steam .
7 .
Now from the same lav derieres also the difference between the phmlomena of common evaporation and ebullition .
If the latter requires a deterlmined degree of heat , it is only because the steam CAlZllOt be formed within the water , without having at once a suicient degree of density for overcoming alone the actual pressure exercised over that water by the atmosphere .
But in common evaporation the steam is formed at the surEace of the water by every temperature , because there it meets with no resistance but what it catl always c)vercome : for it only mixes with the airs and expands it in proportion to its quantity , as would a hew quantity of alr .
8 .
Steam formed by comnzorl evaporation is absolutely of the same nature with that of boiling water ; and in respect of the pressure that it uxldergoes , it is ill the same state as when produced by evaporation under an exhausted receiver .
In this case , where the pressure of the atmosphere is suppressed , the resistance which steam ; meets with in the space is its tWI1 , and consequ-ently it is proportional to its own power ; Snd in opel1 air , the part of the mvhole pressure incumbent on steam is , to that wholef as its power is to that of the whole inass , the rest of the pressure being supported by the airw-ith uthich it is lmixed : which proportion in the pressure that steanl uxadergoesn in this-caseJS c()Xues exactly to that of theQ first .
This is agreeable to the laus of expansible fluids , and the following ex-ample , taken at a determined temperatures xvili prove it frc ?
Xn experience .
19e The thermometer being at about 65 ' of F &lt; AHReNuE-IT5 the -maximutTl of--evaporation , i arl exhausted receiver , keeps a columll ; Xof quiclksilver of o , inch suspended ill the short tnanometer ( I have quoted the experiments which give that middle result ) .
Tllat phnonlenon has been cotlsidereEl by some natural philosophers vIS distillct firoln common evapo ration and depending on a disposition of the particles of liquids of repelling each other ; which dispositicon supposed to be coLlllteracted by the pressure of the atnosphereX must appear srllen that pressulre is remoxted .
But besides the kllowil loss of heat by the liquid , ; in ttliS G8Se as Nvell AS iI } open air , whoch poitats out the same cause of evaporations an equal presstlre is also produced , and adcIed to that of air when the receiver is filled sith the latter ; which again nX dicates the same eSect as%7ill appear in the 00l0W7ing t2'* Ampl\#163 ; ^3 -Io .
If , by the above temperature , the receiver is filled with air of the same density as the air of the place X ila sv ; ch case:abarometerillclosed in that reccisrer will starad a1 : the same height eas in the open air ; and that in the receiver 1 ; )e ing then very dry , water be ltroduced in a quantity sufficiont br producing in it the maxlmum of errapoloationy ztlle rnclosed barolneter , considered here as a marzeneters will rlse c3nS inCh ; aS Alr .
DE SAUSSURE }lAS found it by experimets .
XX If lzosv nte consider that the instrument calIed barotue terX is in eYery case a manometer Be shall find that thow phznonlena observed itl close verels give us a true idea of hat happens to steam in the atmcesphere .
When that i strument is observed in open air , it is with reason called barometer ; sinte the expansive-power exercised orl its mercurial column isdetermined by the ^Teight : of the irlctlmbent columll of air ; therefore it is the true lueastlre of the WYeight oftlaat colalmn .
13ut at the same time , and more imluediate]y ) it is a real nzanometer since the immediate -action exercised on its column , and to which this is also proportionala iS3 cateris paribus , exercised by the density of the fluid or fluids , which surround it , wlaose action is exactly the same as if ally part of the msassof those fluids were suddenly secluded fr{m the rest in a close vessel .
Therefore , wlolen steam is\#171 ; tnixed with air be the tnass / shat upin a vessel , or be : it a certaila p-art of the atmosphete distinct by its place ) both iluids will act on the column of the marlolueter or barometer or ot every obstacle and thus against each otTler according to their respective power ; for this funclamental reason proceeding kom the nature of steam as NQW explalned , ( ' That no mecs chanical cause can produce the decotnptosition of that fluid } s ; lzutz by forcing its particles to co-me nearer each other thari cs theactualr:enaperature can permit : mrllichcaw cannothappen in the atmospheres except by the accumulatio-rl of steam it-self in some part of it ; since , elsewhereX it only remains mixed with the air aceording to lts onv &lt; laws , as if there were n-o aor .
The whole thevry of hygrologys as far as I have been able to collect the phnolnena of that class , appears to me comprehended in the fo3regoing propositions , founded on facts .
The objects of that science are in general the cause of evaporation , and the lnodifications of the evaporated water .
The common source of the water thus disselllinated in the atmosphere , is the surface of the eartil ; whenGe in spoIltaneouS evaporation , both in air and in vacuo , as well as in ebullition we see that water fly off vlth latent fire .
If we collect that product in a close space , it acts in the same manner as a new quantity of expansive fluid .
We know from experienceg that an expansive fluid is really produced by ebullition , and by evaporation in an exhausted vessel : there is no reason why the callse of evaporations and its product , should change itz ally case , only by the presence of air ; and in examining what may happen in open air , we find no particular cause of the destruction of that expansible fluicl , nor any difficulty ita conceiving its dissemination in every part of the atmo spheree But here we lose sight of steam , for it is as transparent as air itself : here also its lnechallical action is as little per* .
E ceivable as that of any set of scattered particles of air ; and though its specific gravity is much less than that of air , its quantity existing in the ; atmosphere is most times so inconsiderable , that it can hardly be discovered by that means , on account of other causes which also aiect the specific gravity of a givetl mass of free air .
ThereforeX notwithstanding our experiments on the formation of stealn and its effects in our vesselsg nte should be ignorant of its : functions ill the atmosphere , if it were not for its prope-rty of producing moisturej bywhich ve may trace it wherever it is , and determine its quantity .
Here then a new field is open for experiments and observations ; since by connecting hygrometry with hygrology , the hygrometer is for us in the atmosphere , what the malaol7leter is in close vessels .
The particular experiments which I have to relate , have that colznection in view ; as they will show , that in a close vessel , either filled with air , or free from it , the product of evaporation aSectsX at the same time , the hygrometer and the nlallometer ; .the fortner by luoisture , the latter by pressioni But I must here take this as a fact itl order not to interrupt the course of the theory , which , from hygrologyy leads to hygrometry , lJy certain laws de-monstrated in the fluid which is th.\#162 ; cause of moisture .
0f the Laws of grometryb z. the science of hygronzetry derives sts origin from the muse whence proceeds , that the density of steam has different xlaxima , according to the temperature .
I have shown , in my last work on meteorology , that in the particular association of water and fire which produces steam , both of those ingredients retainthe faculty of producing their : respectier-e equilibrium between the medium and bodies ; that also the patticles of water retain a tendency of uniting together , which begins to be effiectual at a certain distance : and that their union takes pkce whexl they-come to a degree of proximitys by which sG s they mn surlnoutltthe cause which keeps them disseminated in the space , namely fire .
T'he less the quantity of free fire ( ot of the cause of heat ) itl a spa-ce ) the greater is the distance at which the particles of water have the ficulty of tlniting together and also of fiollowing other tendencies , by abatldotxing their latelWlt fire ; and azce versa .
A final UlliOll of a sensible qLlatltity of particles of water in the medium ( ory what comes to the same , that precipitation of u ?
vter wllqcl first appears in it as a mist ) talies place , when the density of steam is arrived beyond itS limit5 ; and those lilmits depend oll temperature , becau^ the greater the quantity of fre fire in the space , the nearer the particles of steatn may come to one another , wtithout a final union of their wrater The whole in vacao , as in air .
Such is the physical principle conamon to hygrology and hygrometry 2 .
Hygroscopic su}stances are ofthree distinct cla , sses .
Some seize on the water of steatn by a chemical affinity with that Siquid ; among these are acids , salts , and calces .
Some only imbibe it by its telldency to propagate itself in capillary pores ; but , from their natuire they receive no sensible increase in their bulk by its introduction ; in the number of these are porous stones .
Lastly , some substances , which also only imbibe a certain quantity of water , are thereby expanded ; and these are most of the solids belonging to the vegetable and animal kingdoms .
Varions ; hJrgroscopic phnomena , svhicIi only depend on the different properties of the substances themselves , being thus foreign to the fundamelltal laws of hygronetry , I shall here confine myseIf to the last class , hich appears the only proper one for that general purpose ; and , among the hygrowopes of thaVt class , I shall onlyfcoasldu those which cease to lengthen , only when they cannot be penetrated with more water- ; as , by the use of these , there cannot ; ke a:ltr fallacy ill respect of the most important phnornerla to be deterrnitzed , namely ) tXne Inore or : less intetlsoty , according to certain circumstances , in the cause whi\#163 ; h aSects the hyg , roscope placed itl a medium .
; 0* The word moisture , like some othersvsrhich also have been applled to certain phxnoretla the causes of which were not deternzined , is atnbiguous in comluon language ?
implyng soluetllues the idea of a cause , and at other ti:rnes that of an eSect , withlout a proper cletermination ; that defect might bs corrected by means of different words for the cause and fbrthe effed ; : but neologisms are often so troublesorne and sometimes so arbitrarily introduced into languages , that I shall only endeavour to determine the sense tof thesvord mois turen according to cases , so as to avoiEl0 ; ambigllity .
: 4 .
Moisture , taken in a pneral sense , may be considereDd simply as invisible srater , producing observable plwnolliena .
'-rhus , ill hygroscopic bodies , the quantity cf water wQhich -expatlds them , and itlcreases their uteight , is concealed sv-ithitl their pores : ; and-ill the ambierst medium , that wa ; ter which affects hygroscopic bodies , being-l ; here under the fortn of stearn , is as invisible as air itself .
: : 5 .
But in respect of l:zygrometry } where moistu^re is ; ;considered as having correspondent degree$ in the mediumX , antl in hygroscopic substances , that word reqLuires aln-ore particula-r determination , on accollnt of those tulo different situations of itlvisible water .
M-oisturetnay be elther to-tally absent , or : absolutely extreme both itl hygroseopic bodies , aild in the alnbient medium , whicTl fcircutmstalzGe , on both sides , aSotcisf a fixed lmodule for determining correspondent degrees ; but these modules are not of the sanae nature ; azd thence , in their relation-to one another , both in the whole and in correspotldent parts , tnoisture assumes in the nledium , the character of a cause , a &lt; d in hygroscopic bodies , that of all effect , as will appear by the following determination of both cases .
6 .
Moisture is totally absent , fi-rst in the medium , hen it contains no steam ; then ( as a consequence ) in hygrcxscopic bodies , because they contain no more water than can evaporate , without a decomposition of their component parts The case supposed in that definitions is when , by some adequate cause , no setlslble qualltity of steatu is pernuitted to remaill in the -naedium ; as in my linle-vessel .
Moisture is extreine , first in the medium , eithet air or a space free from air when no more steam could be introduced into it , without a part of it being decomposed ; and then ( also as a ctnsequence to be explained ) it is extreme in hygroscopic bodiess because no more water can be admitted into their pores .
Now , from the nature of the last of those maxima , the qualltity of water which produces it itl a given body is fixed , since it is determined by the actual capacity of its pores ; whereas the quantity of water which produces extreme moisture , in a medium of a givell extent , is as variable as the temperature : therefore , t)he hygroscopic equilibrium between the medium and hygroscopic bodies in different stages of moisture , which equilibriula is the object of hygrometry as a science , does not depend on certain qualltities of water contained in the first , of which the last may receifire their share ; it depends on different aptitudes of the steam contained in the mediula to communicate water to those bodies ; which aptitudes vary , not only by the different derlsities of that fluid ?
but in stealn of the same density according to the temperature .
7 .
Ira order to assign the eause of that equilibrium , we have previously to detertnitle}:1 .
Whence proceeds a Inaximum of length=xn the hygroscopic bodies here reSerred to ; 2 .
lElow that ma7Qimum is prcxduced by steam ; g. Why it takes place by different densities of that fluid , when the temperature is different S. Water introduces itself into the above bodies by its property of adhering and propagating itself on their surfaceR and thereby of entering their capillary cllannels ; and those bodies resist its introduction , which ex}zallds thelal , by the tendency of their particles to remain urlited .
This last tendency , :from itS OWll law , being less and less in proportion as the particles of the body are already less in colltact with each other , it shollld appear , that water ought at last to divide them entirely : but , according also to the law of that ; propagation of water , the greater is its quantitg:already induced on the internal chantlels of the body the less is the tendency of new particles to enter them ; and this last diminution being more rapid than the former , there comes a point in which tEte two forces are in equilibrium ; which circumstance determines the maximum of the introduction of water , and consequently that of the lengthening of the body 9 .
The maximum of length of those hygroscopic bodies is thus produced , 0vhenever a sufficient quantity of water stands or floats : round them , without having a strotlger tendellcy elsewheret Therefore that maximum is prodllced vwthen such a body is ilumersed into water ; and it is also produced when the same substance stallds in a space where steam xis arrived at its lnaximum ; for that fluid is then so ready to atoatldorl its vaterX if this has a tendency elsewilere , that a smallfflquantity of new steam introduced in the space , would occasion the decomposition of part of itS followed by a spontaneotls precipitation of water .
wo .
But we have seen above , that s-teatn arrives to itSmaxiultlm Bith diSerent clegrees of density , according to the temperature ; consequenfly , whatever be the actual density of stealn , if that density is its maximum conformable to the ternperature , the hygroscopic body will rective vater to the maxilnum ; and thereby it will att-aila its maximum of length X 1 .
NoW , as according tv the prernises , the detlsity of steam is tot the only circumstance by which , at tEleElast period , the hygroscopi-c bodyretains in a medium the maximum of water that it can receive , that effect depending also otl the tetuperature ; lie the same callse , the density of stealn is not at the former periods , that only circutustance -which}l determines the qualltlty of xv-ater vllat the hygroscopic body can retaill in the tnedillinn ; that quantity depezds also on the temperatureO The following is the theory of that phnomenon , or of the hygroscopic e-quilibriulal between the medium and bodies .
12 .
In c-onwquence of the above determined composiDtion of -steam whatever be its quantity in a givetl space , either filled with ait or firee from it , its aptitude of commulaicating water to hygroscopic substatl-cesJis always proportional to the actual ratio between thaVt quantity and the maximum corres ?
ondent to Dthe teluperat-ure ; which ration and not an ab$o-ltite quantity of stealn , ; s a c-ertain degree of tuoisture con$idered in the mecliufm ; vshereas moisture considered in a certain hygroscopic body , is the determinedl quantity of water which it can retain itl the mediutu , according to the actual satio in the steam .
Moisture in the medLium is greater and an hygroscope retains in st a greater quantity of wtaters when the actual qualltity of steam bears a greater proportion svitI ; i sts maximum correspondent to the temperature ; and vice verse .
Therefore the divisions of the instrumett are meant to indicate , by every temperatllre , the actual distance of moisZ ture in the medium , either from its zerc &gt; , or from its maximum - , and that distance is the degree of moisture .
But this is yet with out any reference to the dellsity of steam ; the eletertrlination of tTwis havitzg the temperatul^e for one of its indispetlsable elements .
S. From that derives the remarkable phenomenon of the effects pl^oduced on moisture in the medium , by the variations of temperature , thougil the quantity of steam , or evaporated water , remains the same in the same space ; !effiects of which we are infortrled by the variations of the hygroscope , and which are the same by the absence or presence of air .
Every thange in the temperature operates a correspondent change in the module of m-oisture ; or in a variable totum of which according to its magnitude , the actual quantity of steam is a greater or a smaller aliquot part ; that module being always the quantity of steam that could not be exceeded ill the spaces by the actual temperature without the decomposition o\#163 ; part of it ; which is always extreme moisture in the mediu:n .
14 .
From that results lastly ; that if , besidFes being acquainted , by the hygroscope , of the degree of moisture in the medium , or of elle ratio between the density of steam and itg .
ectual module , it is required to kllow the density of that &gt; &gt; MDWSC If@3 H steam , or its qXalltlty ill a given space s the observation of the temperature is required : as this , by previous experiments ill order to determine the quatltities of steam correspondent to its different nlaxima according to the telrlperature , mill a-fford a co-efficieIlt for the ratio observed .
a , .
But are we permltted to consider the variations of the hygroscope as proportional to those of moisture in the medium ?
Tllls , accorditzg to the above determinationsa would be the case , if the hygroscopic substance of the instrument lengthened in proportion to the quantity of water that it may retain in the medillm .
But the cause of the expansioti of those substances by water , and the capacity of their pores at different periods of moisturey are too complicated for answering that question a priori i and by experience , the great differ ences observed ill the marches of many of those instruments made of differelst substances , prevents us from asslgning that property to any of them , till some particular experiment comes to help us ill that respect .
However , that circumstance affects only the practical part of hygrometry , and is foreign to the fundamental principles of that science , which I haare now exposed as they appear to me from its general phenomenon .
I have indicated , in my last paper , two means u7hich I had formerly imagined for obtaining that desirable and still wanting correspondence between the march of a determined hygroscope , and that of moisture in the medium .
One of those means was , to observe , at the same time , the variations in weight and length of the same substance , in order to com pare the quantities of water which it retains , with their effiects o-n its length .
I have executed that experiment ; but its rct sultss which I gave in mzr last paper have confirmed my doubts , on evfen the acquisitions of weight being proportional to the increase of moisture in the medium ; since they do not keep thewsame pace in different substances .
The other means wTas , to introduce in a dry vessel succest sive equalSquantities of utater withollt opening the vessels and to observe their effiect on the Shygroscope .
I made , last year , a first attempt of that experiment which succeeded i respect of the introduction of water in a space of a known small degree of moisture ; but the event confirmed also the uxlcertainty that I suspected in that method , because of a variable share of water retained by the vessel itself .
Howwevert as some parts of my apparatus might contribute to that un certainty , I intend to correct it , and repeat the experiment ; which , if I obtain regular results ?
I shall have the honour to communicate tQ the Royal Society .
I have now summed up the series of propositions which connect together in one systetn the whole of the fulldanletltal phxnomena of bygrology and hygrometry ; and the only part of that system uthich remained to be proved by imme diate experiments is , that link mentioned above between the two classes of phnometlas namely ; ( ' That in vacuo , as in airs 's the product of evaporation aff ; ects the hygroscope asit { s does the mallometer .
" I had ascertained that fact since the year o776 by imlnediate experiments ; which was te reason whyX in my last work , I considered that circumstance as a principle , which , at leasts could not be denied by any thing known to the contrary .
But , for an immediate demontration of it , many conditions were wanting in my first experiment , which could not be obtained but by the whole of my subsequent lab-our .
l'hat experiment ls now made wltll a sufficient clegree of regularity ; and the more so , as it has been executed by Mr. HAAS ) in one of his air-pulups with some of my whale-bone hygrometers , made by himself : and I shall IROW give its resu te Exparizents on EvEoratlon ) in =4ir and in Vacuoe Tlle purpose of these experiments being to show , that the eiects produced by evaporation on the hygrorneter and the manometer , are the same in the ab5ence of air , as when they take place in air ; I shall begin here by referring to Mr NAIRNE S paper , in the Philosophical Transactions for 17*77 sn which it isproved by experiments , that Mr. SMEATON)S pear-gage is not a true manometer , sillee it does not indicate the presence of steam , when some remains in an exhausted receiver ; but that it is the only true measure of the quatltity of air itself remaining in that space .
That property of the pear-gage , proceeds from the fifth latv\#171 ; of the above theory of hygrology .
When , in the common temperature of the atmosphere , steam is unprotected by a sufficient mixture of air , it is totally decomposed by the pressure of the atmosphere , when this acts by the interposition of some sort of piston , as is the columll of quicksilver in the pear-gage : therefore no fluid can remain at the top o\#163 ; that instrllment when filled with quicksilver , except the quantity of air which was contained in zits capacity before the introductione of the quicksilver .
Whell some Iasting cause of fbrmation of steam happens to be within the air-pulnp } and that the pump is long wxked the aor is at la^st allnost completely exhausted , and the remaitlIng presstlre acting on the mallometer is that of steamr Mr. AIRNE has shewtn me all instance of that effiect , in : which the quarltity of air indicated by the pear-gage was ]1ot 've IOOOO part of the whole That remar-kable ict will prove , that ill the fUllowing experiments air itself was exhsted to theutmost degreeX and thus reduced to nougllt in respect of any influence ola the main phaerlomena .
I must also premise whence pred some anomalies which will be observed in those experiments .
It is in general from the nature of steam from which in our experimentst it is subluitted to certain modifications depending on its laws but which carlnot be dWQ5 reirred to them by immediaW explanationa because of undeXrmined effects of the sides of the vessels , and of irregularities in the temperatureX The law of steam which is the most subject to anomalies by those causes , is that of two distinct masima , one of production , the other of prevation .
Thow two maxima coincide , when the temperature is neSartthe freezing potnt ; as in that acase , the whole quantity of steam that mn exist at one time in a spacea is also produced when there is a sufficient quantity of water in any part of it ; whereby the hygrometer stahds at soo , wshich is its point of extreme moisture .
But in proportion as t ze w:uole apparatus grows nvarmer the maximum of production fills short of that of preservation .
; the quantity of steam does not increases though it might be more denw without undergoing a decompositlon ; and thereby the hygro ; neter recedes kom extreme moistllre .
Such is the gexleral law of steam , as it resuIts clearly from the whole of my experiments ; -but in particular cases , it iF subject to allolualies from varlouS cau$es atong which are the following .
If thewater that evaporates is wartner than the space which receives the steam } more moistllres is pt odllced in that space , or the quantity of steam ss greater in it than by an equal temperature in both ; and vice versae MUore or ESS diStallCe Qf the part of the space wrhere the hygrozneter stands from the $ides of the Ve$sel produces also anotnalles ; as according to their own state of moistures if near enough , they halre an influence onr moisture in that space as I have expIained lt1 my fiormer paper ; and this is often the case in some measure when the vessels are too small .
Lastlyfi diSerences in the temperature of the whole or of sotue part of the vessels comparatively with that of the spaces are the most comInon causes of allomal-ies ; for steam is altex nately decomposed and reproduced by those diSerences , and when they have once begun in a vessely there is no certain means to bring it to a regular course of phxtlomenas except by beginning again , or by a long equal temperature .
I come now to the experituentss in which I shall indicat some effiects of those causes. . !
FIRST EXPER I MEANT * The receiver/ used was about eight inches in diameter , and twelve in height .
One of my hygrometers was suspended ln it , with a thermometer , the degrees of which were actually dierided in-ten parts .
I-n the evening a very ltarge wet cloth was placed in loose fblds on its bottoms and the first obserstation was xmade the next mortling as followst Time .
Long Gage { Short Gage .
HygromX l"herma 7h 2 ; t A. M. o.o _ 9d , ,5 47,7tS The maxirrlum of evaparation was then surely produced ; but it remained short &gt; $ degrees from extreme moisture .
this was ill air .
I could not hane any indication of the qualatity of pressure produced by the steam ) mixed then with the air ; for a receiver , equaily pressed itl and out , is not air tight An experixneat for determining that increase of pressure , must be made in a sealed vessel , as in Mr. DE SAUSSURE'S experiment , by which he found that important phxnomenon ; but from that experiment we ave sure ?
that if a barometer had been inclos:ecl in the above recelver , being then sealed , the steam produced would have made it rise , at the same time that it affected the hygrometer .
The pump sNas then worked ; after which the instruments mere found as follows .
7 , l5 26 , o 97 , ' 44s75 I sTlall make here a remark on the known phenomenon of the diminution c)f heat , when a space filled with air is suddenly exhausted ; &gt; as in this case we have an analogy that will henhance the most natural explallation of that phaenomer}on .
Free fire , the cause of heat , being an expansible fluid , as air and steam , is then carried away with them , notwithstanding its tenuity , and heat is diminished in the spate till new fire is come through the vessel .
Now , the same is observed in reAspect of moisture with a quick hygrometer , for it goes for an instant to dryness , while the quantity of steam carried away is repairing by a new evaporation In the aboure case , moisture was lastly increased 'S degree ; yet the quantity of steam was less than before , and the cause of that icrease of moistaare was , the diminutions of its module by that of heato In respect of air , its quantity was so diminished , as to perrnit a column of qvlicksiIver of 26 inches to rise in the loIlg gage .
The pulnp was again worked ) and time given for the instruments to settle .
7,2s ' 28,7 _ -969s 4yf7SThe original temperature was now restored ; and as air hado been much diminisvhed by the first operation , fire , thus much more free in this , escaped the action Qf the pump .
Moisture also was restored nearly to its : original degreeS thoughz very little air remairzed itl the re(eiver .
Tlle pump was worked by intervals .
lorSt 28t5 o , yo 96X66 47,75 The quantir ; y of air was now so little , that it cannot be $upposed to has had any share in the effect of the steam ; however moisture remained sensibly the same by the sametemperature .
Worked agaioa the pump to the best vacuum .
to2oo 28,7 onss 9435 48,8 The pressure oll the short gage was 110W , according to Mr. NAIRNE'S experiments , almost wholly produced by steam ; yet moisture preserved its own distinct modifications : here it is diminished , notwithstanding the maximum of evaporation hecause of the increase of heat .
The pllmp -was vorked at different times , for extract ing some air that was disengaging itself from the large wet clothe &amp; ?
35 28X7 'SS 9t &gt; ' St 2 ?
50 P. M. 28 &gt; 72 o60 86)7r : 54415 Here again totsvithstanding a constalat ulaxitnutll of eva pc)ration moisture contixlued to diminish by the intr@ as of heat , as it does in air .
The apparatus was left ill that situation about fotlr hour$ t and the obwrvers having lefk the rooma thisa and the ap proachilzg evening , occasioned a sensible diminution in the heat ; whereby , as the sides of the vessel cooled befbre the in closed space , the steam begat ] to be decomposed against them , and they were fbulad overed with deny and streamtng nYaterg by a real nntinuing distillationc The last cause of anomaly abonre mentioned is here conspicuous by its great eict ; fOt* during that distillatiotlX and cotlsequently tholgh llew quanfit}es of steam ascended cotltinually through the spaw , mois ture wm in it much lessthan ila the tbrmer obsorvatiollsX as will be swn by the X11QWi1]gS made befbre and after working the pump .
The thermometer could not be obwraredX onX awount of the tbicliness of the dew on its side of the vessel .
4a2 ' ' 2723S 76 ) _ Worked the pumpa ^ 4sSS 7g75 o62 y6 , ?
_ The steam nntinued some tinle to decompose itself against the sides of the vessel ) and moisture to remain in that state of diminution till the heat commullicated by the observers to the apparatus made the internal dew evaporate ; al1d when theeby the thermolneter collld be obsere7ed ?
the instrument$ were as follow5 6w47 ' 288X8 ot6 g6o St73 Here also is an instance of what I have mentioned aboves 3dDCCXCI Ios I of the } irregtllarities attending all the phenomenon , after sonze lvNrtER has bee1a once deposited on the sides of the vessel : lnois ture was tc)o great for the telnperature , and it remained i &lt; that state the whole evenilzg .
7nSSt 28 &gt; 82 o,6 i 96 , -52n7 8)4 28,82 076 96 &gt; 52But the next morning , after the dissipation of some dewr that vas ol ] the inside of the ressel , and after having worked the pump , the instruments were fOUlld as follows .
7 , tA .
M. * 29 , &lt; od 9,66 44775 Now this ) in respect of moisture , and its correspondelzce with the temperature by the masitnum of evaporation , is sensibly the samev as when the receiver was filled with air at the begillning of the experiment , though at this time no sen sible quantity of air remained in it .
SECOND EXPERIMENTo EDvery part of the apparatus was the same in this experiment as in the former , except the receierer , which was only about six inches itl diameter , and eight in heighe ; to which circumstance may be assigned , that moisture was generally grea-ter comparatively with the temperature ; but in respect of the indiffierence of air to the phxnolnena of moisture , the results mtere the same ... A wet clothX only sufflcient to keep up the maximum of evaporation throughout the whole experiment } was used this time ; by which means no air appeared in the receiver after the disengagement of the little quantity contailledi in the small cloth .
This waa put under the receiver , filled with air , -at abou-t : four o'clock in the aftertzooll : and the ifirst observation , made in that state , was thus : S , -P .
M. oo gF , cs e 7d ; The pllmp was therl workedX for extracting a part of the air , and time given for the instrUtnents to settles and tltey were found7 St5r 6 5 ; -94 0 wSt75 After this obseraration , and after each c)f the fbllowing , these pump was vorked , and time also givell for the instrllments to settle .
8,30J 1330 --- ' 91 ' GGe75 8v45 l9xQ 86 , 67 91S eS0. .
1.11 86so 67,75 g , go 29 , o,65 Sg , o 6v7 After this , the pump was no more worked the same day but the twro following observations were still made .
xoot e9 , g os65 8g , o 66,3 1 1 , o 29,23 o,6s 9593 64 , , G The apparatus vas left in that situation till the next morn-ing , when the fUllowing observation was made befbre worksug the pump .
6 &gt; 20 ' A. M. a9 , o , $45 9755 63,1S The pump was then worked , and the best possible vacuum was produced , in which , according to Mr. NAIRNE'S experiments , there could not bed any sensible quantity of air .
6,40t 29 , +o o , o 9S , 6S , rS In comparing the results of this experiment with those o\#163 ; the first moistures as I have said , is generally greater in proportion to the temperature .
But , setting this aside , and comparing the tnotions of the hygrometer and the thermosI 2 IneterS it is earident } that they are independent of the modilE cations of air ; and that it may safely be concluded : cc rlthat the product of evaporation is always af the same nature , , t sc naluely , an expatlsib}e flllid , hichs either alone or mixed ; with air , affects the manometer by pressure and the hy ; ; grometer by moisture , without any difference arising fkon { ; the presence or absence of air &gt; at least without ary per 4 ; ctived hithertQ ; e

