Account of a Lithological Survey of Schehallzen , made in order to determine the specific Gravity of the Rocks which compose that Mountain .
By John Playfair , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 27 , 1811 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1811 , p. 347 .
] Norwithstanding the skill with which Dr. Maskelyne conducted the astronomical observations upon Schehallien , and the accuracy with which he may be presumed to have measured the deflection of his plumb-line from the perpendicular , whereby he discovered the actual attraction of that mountain ; and although great ingenuity was manifested by Dr. Hutton in deducing from thence the mean density of the earth ; there remained one source of uncertainty in their results , dependent on the specific gravity of the mountain , which they assumed to be 2'5 , but were aware that this might not be so accurate as would be desirable in a standard to which the density of the earth is directly compared .
It was for this purpose that Mr. Playfair , with the assistance of Lord Webb Seymour , undertook the present survey of Schehallien , ascertaining , as accurately as they were able , the direction and inclination of the strata of which the mountain consists , and collecting specimens of all the varieties of rock which they could discover , in order to determine the specific gravity of each by direct experiment , and thence to estimate the correction which it might be necessary to introduce into Dr. Hutton 's calculation .
Schehallien , like all other mountains in its vicinity , was found to consist entirely of primitive rocks in strata , which stretch in a direction from S.E. to N.W. , and nearly vertical in position ; but in some parts towards the base , they deviate as much as 150 from the perpendicular .
The most elevated and by far the largest part of the mountain was found to consist of granular quartz , extremely hard , compact , and homogeneous , of which the specific gravity , by an average of thirteen specimens , was nearly 2-64 .
Adjacent to this mass , on each side , and next in quantity , is a micaceous schist , containing hornblende ; and lower down toward the base appear strata of granular limestone , highly crystallized , and containing mica .
The specific gravity of this part of the mountain , on an average of fifteen specimens , was found to be 2 81 .
Beside these there are also veins or dykes of porphyry and greenstone , which intersect the other strata at right angles , but bear a very small proportion to the general mass of the mountain .
With respect to the micaceous schist and limestone , which are distinctly stratified in vertical planes , their continuity from one extremity of the mountain to the other may with confidence be presumed ; but this is not the case with respect to the granular quartz , which may either be interposed between them , and continue with them to an indefinite extent in length and depth , or may be of subsequent formation , occupying only the summit of the mountain , and not penetrating into the interior .
Since the result of the calculation of the earth 's density is materially affected by the difference of these suppositions , the author has made an estimate according to each hypothesis .
With the exception of the corrections thus obtained for the specific gravity of the mountain , Mr. Playfair adopted the method employed by Dr. Hutton , of dividing the whole mass of the mountain into a certain number of vertical columns , formed by cylindrical sections , so that their respective attractions on the plumb-line could with great facility be computed upon the supposition of uniform density throughout .
Upon the former of the two hypotheses of Mr. Playfair , in which the granular quartz is supposed to pervade the base of the mountain to an indefinite depth , the corrections , in proportion to the mere difference between the specific gravities assumed by Dr. Hutton and that found by experiment , were simple in comparison to those necessary on the second hypothesis ; but in each case the attractions of opposite portions of the cylindrical sections became , in fact , unequal , and consequently required to be computed with due regard to their respective specific gravities , as well as the azimuth and altitude of each .
The nature of these computations is fully explained by the author , but cannot be understood without reference to the figures which accompany them .
The resulting density deduced according to the first hypothesis is found to be nearly 4'56 ; that deduced by Dr. Hutton having been only 4A48 : but according to the second hypothesis , the difference is far more considerable ; the density in this case being 4-87 .
This last is nearly a mean between that of Dr. Hutton and the density of 5-48 , which Mr. Cavendish inferred from a very different mode of investigation .
By considering the experiments on Schehallien alone , the density of the earth might be assumed to be between the limits above assigned , the mean of which amounts to 4*71 .
Mr. Playfair , however , thinks it desirable that an element so important in physical astronomy should be the result of many experiments , and recommends the selection of granite mountains , if possible , for this purpose , because their homogeneity might be presumed with considerable confidence .

