]\gt ; l8 .
H. L. on ir LPII IIOOKLR , K.C. I. , .
Sir Will i ) th recci vcro ] the 11 .
verc r : \mdash ; I. .
L. the ) reccdin ) lllfty bc iu .
th ' scrics is , of to II such that , . .
and . . .
the grals ) to .
The defernlinc them : Mr. W. H. L. Bussell S [ Feb. 28 , The calls for some particular romarks .
Since by the ordinary ules : .
also : ' Where aro all the roots of the equation which h a ativ modulus , and are cerconstants whose values have bcCll a by Poisson : hence .
, when .
Now let increase without limit , tbell Hence the in second mcmbcr vanishcs , and ( terms ) .
It is reely nccessary to obsve , that this process imphes that 1llust be less than ( b ) , other}visc the intcgral J as here used will be discontinuous .
1878 .
] on certain Definite .
lct us definc foul quantities , , thus then ( 76 .
) . .
' ( 77 .
) .
( 78 .
) .
( 79 .
) ( 80 .
) wo inlmediatcly deducc .
If we by , and ( SO .
) by ( 1 , we have at once Profs .
S More generally we may tain \ldquo ; . .
and II .
" " On tloe cversal of Lillcs ) lc\eth ;  } \ldquo ; G. D. ofessor ( J. .S .
, , Ulliverl ; ity of idge .
No. I. the celebrated paper by hoff , " " On the relation veen the ( and of different ) odies for in he detailed the eriments of lines of lithium and sodium by by the vapours of those metals in the flamc of a Bunsen 's mcntioned the reversal of the ohter lines of potassium , , strontium and bnrium when the ration of the as used instead of of a Bullscll'R ) rthcr r in the same direction have bet.ll by , ftnd The method adopted by ] ) been previously used by Foucault , is ) of , ( lependcnt upon so .
the electl .
that the COlJ tinuous s ) of the intensely heated poles is examined an tmosphcre of the pours volatilized around them .
this menns succceded in versino s lines in the !
ctra of metals in addition to mentioned , viz. , ] , lead , silver , inum , cadmium , zinc , and .
Hc observed that in encral the ible of a group of liucs , to the nlolc ible lines of the he the coucl[lsion a ver thill 1 of vupour was for the .
It be noted ) most cvery case the by be revcrsed .
the ] of the lilltS istic of each metal , ] } ) by Stokos in a .
to Lockyer in the .
of the 1 for 1876 , in which he ccs for the firt , time of the of diifercllt to tempeI ) adopted by Lockycr in the was to view .
arc ) ours metals in a of

