180 Dr. A. Schuster .
[ Mar. 17 , of the blastopore before the closing of the primitive streak region , or to this area minus the secondary extension , caused by the projecting yolk , in Monotremata .
IY .
" On the Total Solar Eclipse of August 29 , 1886 ( Preliminary Account ) .
" By Arthur Schuster , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Applied Mathematics in Owens College , Manchester .
Received March 3 , 1887 .
The instrument entrusted to me by the Eclipse Expedition was similar to that employed in Egypt during the eclipse of 1882 .
The equatoreal stand carried three cameras , one of which was intended for direct photographs of the corona , while the two others were attached to spectroscopes .
Photographs of the Corona.\#151 ; The lens had an aperture of 4 inches , and a focal length of 5 feet 3 inches ; giving images of the moon having a diameter of about 0*6 of an inch .
During the first minute of totality the corona was covered by a cloud , which was , however , sufficiently transparent to allow the brightest parts of the corona to show on the two photographs exposed during that time .
During the remaining time , that is to say , during about two minutes and a half , the sky was clear , but there were clouds in the neighbourhood of the sun .
The time of exposing the photographs , which had been fixed beforehand , had to be altered in consequence of the uncertainty of the weather , and for this reason I can only give the actual times of exposures very approximately and from memory .
One photograph on sensitive paper shows only little detail ; but three photographs on glass were obtained , which , as regards definition , I believe to be equal to those obtained in Egypt .
The approximate exposures were 15 to 20 seconds , 10 to 15 seconds , and about 5 seconds .
With the view of possibly increasing the amount of detail , which it has hitherto been possible to obtain on the photographs of the corona , I have , on this occasion , given considerable attention to the different adjustments , so as to fix the cause which at present limits the definition .
A telescope of 4 inches aperture ought to separate two small objects which are at an angular distance of about 6 seconds of arc .
The theoretical resolving power can only be realised with small and distinct objects like double stars ; in an object like the corona it is difficult to estimate the resolving power actually obtained .
Nevertheless , as far as I can judge , the photographs obtained in Egypt and in Grenada with the same instrument show no detail which theoretically could not have been seen with an aperture of 1 inch .
The photo1887 .
] On the Total Solar Eclipse of August 29 , 1886 .
181 graphs obtained in India during the eclipse of 1871 show about the same fineness of detail as those obtained in 1882 and 1886 , but the aperture then employed was only 2 inches .
It appears from this either that the corona does not as a rule show sufficient detail to warrant an aperture greater than 2 inches , or that for some other reason the full advantage of an aperture of 4 inches has not been realised .
A linear object having an angular magnitude of 6 seconds of arc in a camera of 63 inches focal length would have a length of about the 600th part of an inch in the photographic plate .
Remembering the fact that diffraction gratings have been photographed with 17,000 lines to the inch , it is clear that it cannot be the fault of the photographic film if greater definition is not obtained .
The different adjustments which it is in the power of the observer to regulate can all be easily made to the required accuracy .
I feel certain , at any rate , that during the last eclipse the orientation of the instrument and the average rate at which the clock went during the eclipse were sufficient to give the theoretical resolving power .
There seems to me to be only one way in which an improvement in the photographs can be hoped for .
The mechanical arrangement by means of which the clock motion is transferred to the camera is far from perfect .
The series of cogged wheels which transmit the motion must do so , in my opinion , in an irregular and oscillatory manner , so that although the average rate of the clock can be regulated with sufficient accuracy , there are minor periods which seriously interfere with the regularity of the motion and the definition of the images .
If we are to obtain better photographs of the corona we can only hope to do so by means of a better mechanical arrangement for moving the camera .
Photographs of the Spectrum of the corona were obtained by means of two instruments , one being identical with that employed at Caroline Island in 1883 .
This spectroscope has two prisms of 62 ' refracting angle , the theoretical resolving power being about 10 in the yellow .
( The unit of resolving power is that resolving power which allows of the separation of two lines differing by the thousandth part of their own wave-length .
) The slit of this spectroscope was placed so that it was tangential to the image of the sun formed by the condensing lens .
One plate was exposed during the whole of totality .
The results are good ; a number of lines belonging to the prominences and to the corona are very distinct and can be measured with fair accuracy .
The difficulty of measurement lies in the multitude of lines .
I have measured at present between forty and fifty distinct corona lines between the solar lines F and H , and a number remain unmeasured .
A comparison between the photographs of 1882 and 1886 shows Presents .
[ Mar. 17 , that although the lines seem to be in the same position their relative intensity has greatly altered .
The strongest corona line during the last eclipse had a wave-length of about 4232 ; it is slightly but distinctly less refrangible than the strong calcium line at 4226 .
The measurement of the photographs is very fatiguing to the eyes ; and it is only when these are in exceptionally good condition that the work can be done with any degree of accuracy .
The delay in bringing out a full report is solely due to this difficulty .
The second spectroscope had its slit placed so as to take a radial section of the corona .
It had one large prism giving a theoretical resolving power of 11*4 ; slightly larger therefore than the two-prism spectroscope .
The film was one prepared by Captain Abney so as to be more sensitive in the green than the ordinary plates .
The photograph obtained is faint , but I believe will ultimately give good results .
A good drawing of the corona was obtained by Captain Maling at the station occupied by Captain Darwin and myself .
The plates were prepared by Captain Abney , whose valuable help I have had in the whole of the preliminary arrangements .
Presents , March 17 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Leipzig:\#151 ; Konigl .
Sachs .
Gesellschaft derWissenschaften .
Berichte .
( Math.-Phys .
Classe .
) 1886 .
Supplement .
8vo .
Leipzig 1887 .
The Society .
Liege:\#151 ; Societe Geologique de Belgique .
Proces-Verbal de l'Assemblee du 21 Novembre 1886 .
8vo .
Liege 1887 .
The Society .
London:\#151 ; Odontological Society .
Transactions .
Vol. XIX .
No. 4 .
8vo .
London 1887 .
The Society .
Photographic Society .
Journal and Transactions .
Vol. XI .
No. 5 .
8vo .
London 1887 .
List of Members , \amp ; c. 8vo .
London 1887 .
The Society .
Royal Institute of British Architects .
Journal of Proceedings .
Vol. III .
No. 10 .
4to .
London 1887 .
The Institute .
Observations and Reports .
Bombay:\#151 ; Brief Sketch of the Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency , 1885-86 .
Folio .
[ Bombay ] 1887 .
Meteorological Office , Bombay .

