]\gt ; 1878 .
] Prof. J. C. Adams on Legendre 's Coejficients .
III .
' On of the of any two Co cffic , by tIlS of a Series of 's Coefficicnts By Profcssor J. C. ADANS , , F.R.S. ceived , lS77 .
The expression for the of two 's coefficients is subjcct of the present found by on 13th of FcbruarJv , , and on the .
day I succceded in that the observed of formation of this product held good generally .
considerably simplified proof , I now venture to offer it to the Royal Society ; ftnd , for the sake of completcn I have prefixed it the whole of the ductive process the theorem inally arrived at , for the proof ibscIf ' the first two steps of this process nrc reqnired .
theorem scems to deserve attention .
both on account of its eIegance , and because it appears to be capable of usefu ] applications .
As usual let Legendrc 's bc denoted by then may be defined by the equation It is well known that the ] relation holds good vccn three consccutive values of the functions .
: Now , we Substitute for and their by ing ftnd / successively for the ve f Prof. J. C. Adams on 's Coefficients .
[ Jan. By a reduction the coefficicnt of becomes Hence Again , in our original formula , we have Substitute for and their quivalcnts as before By reduction the cocfficient of in this expression becomes and similarly the coefficient of becomes Hencc we have Prof. J. .
Adams on Legendre 's Coefficients .
[ Jan. 31 , Hence , collecting the terms , we have 1.3 13 where the law of the terms is obvious , except perhaps as regards the succession of the factors in the several denominators .
With respect to this it be observed that the factors in the denominator of any term are obtained by the factor 2 from the regular succession of iive factors .
For instance , where , so that the factor is to be omitted , and we have and as the remaining factors , and so of the rest .
Hence by induction we may write , supposing to fix the ideas that is not greater than \amp ; c. \amp ; c. 1.3.5 . . . .
\amp ; c. 1878 .
] Prof. J. C. Adams on Legendre 's Co eficipnts .
And it to verify this ) scrved law ) if it holds good for two consecutive valucs of , it likowise good for the next value .
If the function ) be denoted by , the term of the ave expression for may bc very conveniently scnted by ' an inteo e ' varies from to fundamental property of the nction A is that or We may interpret when } is zero or a supposing this relation to hold good genernlly , so putting we have Similarly and hencc the value of when is a ncgative intcgcr will be always zero .
We will now proceed to the genernl proof of the theorem above .
Let or simply , denote the quantity of which the term is In this exprcssion is supposed to vary from to 7 it 1 remarked that if bc beyond limits , for , or , then in ucncc of the the tion A above the cocfficient of ) will vanish .
Hencc practicnlly we mmy considcr to SiDlilrly , let denote the ntity of is Prof. J. C. Adams on Legendre 's Coefficients .
[ Jan. 31 , writing for and for in the general term given above .
Also let deliote the quantity of which the general term is iting m for in the generaI term first givcn .
In consequence of the evanescence of when is negative , we may in all these general terms suppose to vary from to Let us i)ssume , and aJso that , then we have to prove that As before , .
Hence our theorem will be established if we prove that Now by and for and \amp ; c. , in terms \amp ; c. , we find the cocfficient of in to be the coefficicnt of ) in } ill be 1878 .
] .
J. C. Adams on Legendre 's Coefficients .
The sum of the first two of this expression is Suppose for moment that ?
, then the tity w the brnckets becomes this ntity evidcntly vanishcs when q is divisible by .
It when ercforc 1 is likewise divisible by ) ] .
Hence it is readily thnt this quantity or sum of the first , of the cxprcssion for fhc of is , the sum of lines of the sion for cocfficient of , is As beforc suppose tity } brackets becomes Now this quantity evidently when q , so it divisible by .
It also anishcs when r thereforc1 it is divisible by ?
) Hence it is readily found ntity or Prof. J. C. Adams on Legendre 's Coefficients .
[ Jan. 31 , and therefore the sum of the Iast two lines of the expression for the cocfficient of is Hence the whole coefficient of is .
the same olds good for the cocfficicnt of every term .
Hence obtain which establishes the theorem ave enunciated .
principle of the procoss ) loyed in above proof may be thus stated : Every term in the value of givos rise to two terms in the value of or iu that of ; one of hcsc terms is to be subacted from the .
tcrm in , and the other fi.omtLe corresponding tcrm in it will be found that the two selies of ternls thus formed tically destroy each other .
Hellae we can find at ollce valuc of dofinite for if we have ' Hence 1878 .
] under the Action of Sonorous ibrations .
or if where as above \mdash ; It is clear that , in order that this integral may be finite , 110 one of the ntities r , and must be greater than sum of the other two , and must be an even I Mr. Ferrers that , in the course of the year likewise obtained the expression for tlYe product of 's coeffJcients , a method very similar to lIline .
his work on Spherical Harmonics recently published , he ives , without proof , the above result for value of the definite IV .
" " the } sbown thin liquid } under Actio of ) norous Y\ldquo ; By , late Fellow of inity CollcgG , Conlnnnicated ) J. .
L. .S .
1 ceived Decclllber 12 , ( Plates and 6 .
) Profc.ssor oltz relnarks , at of the fourth edition of " " \ldquo ; that a film of forms , when cnused to occupy the orifice of one of his " " resonnfol .
S , \ldquo ; all extremely sen itive means which to make visible the -ibrations of air within its -ity .
lVlile I was in this observation , my notice was to parallel bnnds of colour which traversed the fihn , and it ( me to examine the forms of these ) ands were affccted by sonorous tions which the fil1n .
A fcw aving c me vere so icted , I at once occeded to the nscl v to a cl xami)lion .
a iilm to hcre to of a Hclm nator , the fluid to oif until eolours , I set the resonatur , 1lipplc } , in stand , so the film , illld then with a bow a of the pitch mounted on its lanco

