370 Colours in Metal Glasses , in Metallic Films and in Metallic Solutions.\#151 ; II .
By J. C. Maxwell Garnett .
( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received May 15 , _Read June 8 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) In the first section of this paper it is pointed out that one and the same metal may cause a great variety of different colours , just as the colour of gold vapour differs from the colour of the light reflected from gold as well as from the colour of the light transmitted by gold leaf .
While the ultimate cause of the colour of a metalliferous medium is to be found in the structure of the metal molecule itself , the arrangement of these molecules , according to any fixed law , causes them to affect one another 's free periods in a definite manner , and thus gives rise to corresponding optical properties .
The object of this paper is to discover , by means of these optical properties , the molecular arrangement ( microstructure ) of various metal glasses , of colloidal solutions of metal and of metallic films .
Expressions giving the refractive index and the absorption coefficient ( the optical constants ) of a compound medium consisting of metal ( 1 ) in small spheres ( granular ) , and ( 2 ) in discrete molecules ( amorphous ) , diffused through an isotropic non-dispersive transparent medium ( the solvent ) , are next investigated in terms of the corresponding optical constants of the normal metal .
The particular formulae which apply when the volume proportion of metal in the compound medium is small , as in the case of metal glasses and of " colloidal solutions " of metal in water , are also obtained , and it is found that while spheres of any metal , so diffused that there are many to a wavelength of light , will produce colours which vary with the refractive index of the solvent , diffused molecules of any metal produce , by transmitted light , a colour ( the vapour colour ) which is independent of that refractive index .
By means of these formulae and of the optical constants of gold , silver , and copper , experimentally determined for monochromatic light of several different wave-lengths , the numerical values of the corresponding optical constant which would be possessed by diffusions of spheres and of molecules in glass , water , or vacuum , are calculated and tabulated .
Defining the absorption of light of wave-length \ by any absorping medium as being Colours in Metal Glasses , Metallic Films , etc. 371 the logarithm of the ratio of the intensities of that light before and after traversing a unit-length of the medium , graphs are given of the calculated absorptions of these diffusions .
Curves are also shown representing the absorptions of specimens of gold ruby glass , of silver stained glass , and of copper ruby glass , as measured at the National Physical Laboratory .
A comparison of these curves with the graphs for gold spheres and for gold molecules in glass , and a collation of the results with others already obtained in a previous communication , * * * S leads to the conclusion that the colour of gold ruby glass is due primarily to the presence of small spheres of gold .
The irregular blue and purple colours sometimes exhibited by gold glass are then explained by the presence of crystallites caused by the coagulation of the gold spheres .
Again , when the corresponding graphs with water as solvent are compared with the absorptions of colloidal gold as measured by Ehrenhaft , f little doubt remains but that colloidal gold consists of small spheres in suspension ; the blue colour produced by particles coarser than the small spheres is , as in the case of glass , due to the red light being reflected by the crystallites and so not transmitted .
The close similarity between the observed absorptions of yellow glass stained with silver , and the calculated absorptions of a diffusion of silver spheres in glass\#151 ; the calculated absorptions of a diffusion of silver molecules in glass are quite different\#151 ; indicates that the stained region must contain small spheres of silver .
Ehrenhaft'st description of the nature and position of the absorption band observed in the spectrum of colloidal solutions of silver , describes so well the position of the absorption band determined by calculation for a diffusion of silver spheres ( but not of silver molecules ) in water , as to justify the conclusion that the bulk of the silver present in colloidal solution is in the form of small spheres : little , if any , being in true solution ( i.e. , molecularly subdivided ) ; and this conclusion is confirmed by the fact that the refractive index of a colloidal solution of silver , which was measured by Barus and Schneider , S is precisely that which calculation shows to be possessed by a diffusion of silver spheres ( but not of molecules ) in water .
Measurements , made by Sir William Abney , of the intensities with which light of various wave-lengths is reflected from the interface between the stained and unstained regions of one of the specimens of silver glass which had belonged to Stokes , when held with the stain turned away from * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1904 , pp. 385 to 420 .
t Felix Elirenhaft , 'Ann .
der Phys. , ' vol. 11 , p. 489 ( 1903 ) .
f Loc .
cit. , p. 507 .
S Barus and Schneider , ' Zeitschr .
f. Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 8 , p. 278 .
VOL. LXXVI.\#151 ; A. 2 D 372 Mr. J. C. M. Garnett .
Colours in Metal Glasses , in [ May 15 the source of light , are in general accordance with the reflective powers calculated on the hypothesis that small spheres of silver are distributed throughout the stained regions , the maxima corresponding to light of wavelength about X = 0'436 in both cases .
If the silver in the glass had been molecularly subdivided the maximum would have been at about X = 0360 .
The presence of silver spheres ( but not of discrete molecules of silver ) throughout the stained region thus accounts for the blue reflection , in accordance with Stokes , * as well as for the amber colour of silver glass viewed by transmitted light , proving that both colours were due to suspended particles of silver .
A comparison of the observed absorptions of copper ruby glass with the calculated absorptions of copper spheres and of copper molecules diffused in glass , shows that copper ruby glass owes its colour to the presence in the glass of small spheres of metallic copper , f while some copper molecules are probably also present .
Although it has thus been proved that gold and copper ruby glasses and silver glass owe their colours to diffused spheres of the metal , the metals which colour some other glasses cannot be present in the metallic form ; for example , the deep blue colour of cobalt glass cannot be due to diffused metallic cobalt , which , according to calculation , would give a reddish colour by transmitted light akin to that observed by Ehrenhaftt in a " colloidal solution " of that metal .
The colours produced in gold , silver , and soda glasses by the radiation from the emanation from radium , give rise to the suggestion that all glasses contain free ions of metal , and it is by the discharge of these ions and the consequent reduction of the metal ( so that the metal is diffused in the glass ) , that cathode and Becquerel rays are able to colour the glasses .
Expressions are obtained giving the absorptions and reflective powers of amorphous or granular forms of gold and silver , the specific gravity of which is any proper fraction , fi , of that of the metal in its normal state .
Curves are constructed to show how the values of these expressions , and thus also the colours exhibited by transmitted and by reflected light , vary with fM .
A comparison of these calculated colour changes with those actually shown by gold and silver films , such as those deposited on glass by Earaday , S and * Stokes , " On the Change of Befrangibility of Light , " 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1852 ; .
' Collected Papers , ' vol. 3 , p. 316 .
t Stokes ( loc. cit. , vol. 4 , p. 245 ) thought copper ruby glass was coloured by suboxide of copper , and attributed the change of colour in some specimens to suspended particles of the metal .
\ Ehrenhaft , loc. cit. , p. 506 .
S Faraday , Bakerian Lecture , 'Phil .
Trans. , ' 1857 .
1905 .
] Metallic Films and in Metallic Solutions .
by Beilby , * when subjected to heat and to pressure , indicates that ( a ) the films as first prepared are in the amorphous or granular phase , and ( ) heating diminishes the density of the film , while pressure is able to increase that density again , and finally , ( c ) this diminution of density is probably effected by the passage of metal from the amorphous to the granular phase , and by the growth of the larger granules at the expense of the smaller , while increase of density is accomplished by changing some of the metal from the granular to the amorphous phase .
The optical properties of Carey Lea'sf so-called solutions of allotropic silver show that they consist of small spheres of silver in suspension in water .
From this and other evidence it is shown that the suggestions made in the-former paper| that Carey Lea 's silver was not allotropic , but consisted of normal silver in a finely divided ( but not necessarily granular ) state , was almost certainly correct .
The three forms of silver discovered so long ago as 1861 by Hermann Vogel , S were probably the amorphous , granular , and crystalline forms discussed in this paper .
The paper concludes with the suggestion that many forms of metals which have hitherto been considered to be allotropic , because possessing optical properties distinct from those belonging to the metal in its normal state , are merely cases of fine division .
Thus the properties of Bolley 's lead , || of Schiitzenberger'sIT silver and copper , and of other alleged cases of allotropy cited by Roberts-Austen , ** do not require the postulation of an allotropic molecule for their explanation .
* G. T. Beilby , Hurter Memorial Lecture , Glasgow , 1897 .
t Carey Lea , 'Amer .
Jour , of Science ' ( 1889 ) , and 'Phil .
Mag. ' ( 1891 ) .
f Log. dt .
, p. 419 .
S Hermann Vogel , 'Pogg .
Ann. , ' vol. 117 , p. 316 ( 1861 ) .
|| Cf .
Roberts-Austen , ' Metallurgy , ' p. 90 .
IT Schiitzenberger , ' Bull .
Soc. Chim .
, ' vol. 30 , p. 3 ( 1878 ) .
** Roberts-Austen , loc. cit.

