Combining Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
187 anti-toxic or anti-cellular action , but we are far from denying the possibility that such an action may be obtained .
The phagocytosis of formed cellular elements plays an important rdle in inducing resistance ; serum is impotent to produce resistance , blood corpuscles do so .
The energetic phagocytosis which accompanies the spontaneous absorption of transplanted tumours , and which occurs in absorption after exposure to radium , speaks strongly for the conclusion that the processes are the same in kind when blood or tumour cells , being absorbed , produce resistance .
But we are as yet unable to determine the extent to which agencies directed against the tumour cells themselves may assist in determining their early death in protected animals .
Other experiments still in progress may be expected to clear up the relative importance of the parts played by the hypothetical inhibition of the specific stroma reaction , or of an equally hypothetical direct lethal action on the tumour cells .
On the Combining Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum By Robert Muir , M.D. , Professor of Pathology , University of Glasgow , and W. B. M. Martin , M.B. , Carnegie Research Scholar .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received January 18 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1907 .
) In a recent publication f we have studied the combining properties of the thermolabile opsonins of normal sera , and have shown that various substances or combinations of substances which absorb serum complements also absorb the opsonins in question .
Of special interest is the fact that red corpuscles , and also heated normal sera , which by themselves have no appreciable effect either on complements or on opsonins , absorb or fix both of these bodies when combined with their corresponding anti-substances , immune-bodies and precipitins respectively .
Since the time of this publication we have extended our experiments , and have always obtained the same result\#151 ; the opsonin is always fixed when the complement is fixed .
Using the term complement in the bio-chemical sense , we have said that the normal thermolabile opsonins belong to the group of complements .
And we have also * Towards the expenses of this research a grant was received from the Carnegie Trustees , for which we have pleasure in recording our indebtedness .
+ Muir and Martin , ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' 1906 , vol. 2 , p. 1783 .
VOL. LXXIX.-B .
Q ] 88 Prof. Muir and Mr. Martin .
the Combining [ Jan. 18 , found that just as complements in their combining affinities do not possess specific properties , but are absorbed by a great many different substances , so also these thermolabile opsonins show a corresponding community in their combining relationships .
We , however , expressly left out of consideration the special opsonins of immune sera , and also the thermostable opsonins of normal sera , of which latter the stable opsonin of human serum for the diphtheria bacillus may he taken as an example .
In the present communication we shall consider the thermostable opsonins of immune sera .
It is unnecessary to enter in detail into the literature of the subject , as this has been already done by Dean.* It is , however , advisable for the sake of clearness to refer to the chief facts which have been established and to the chief points at issue .
It is now a considerable time since Metchnikoff showed that the establishment of active immunity towards various bacteria was often accompanied by increased phagocytic action on the part of leucocytes and other cells , or by the appearance of phagocytic action when this was absent under natural conditions .
Denys and Lecleff showed in the case of rabbits immunised against streptococci that the increased phagocytosis was due not to changes induced in the leucocytes , but to an alteration in the serum , and pointed out that the leucocytes of the immune animal when placed in a normal serum showed no greater phagocytic activity than normal leucocytes did .
Wright and Douglas* were the first to show that phagocytosis by leucocytes in the presence of normal serum depended upon certain thermolabile substances\#151 ; " opsonins " \#151 ; in the serum which became fixed to the bacteria in question and made them a prey to the leucocytes .
Their results were confirmed by Bulloch and Atkin , S by Hektoen and Ruediger , || and by others , and may now be accepted as established beyond question .
We have , on the other hand , a large group of observations which show that in immune sera the substance which leads to the phagocytosis of bacteria , or of red corpuscles , as the case may be , is thermostable , i.e. , resists a temperature of 55 ' C. for an hour .
Among such observations may be mentioned those of Savtchenko,1T Neufield and Birnpau , ** Dean , ft LeishmanJJ and others .
And Wright and BeidSS have shown that in * Dean , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 76 , p. 515 .
t Denys and Leclef , ' La Cellule , ' 1895 , p. 177 .
\ Wright and Douglas , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 357 .
S Bulloch and Atkin , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 74 , p. 379 .
|| Hektoen and Ruediger , * Journ. of Infectious Diseases , ' 1905 , p. 128 .
IT Savtchenko , ' Annales de l'Inst .
Pasteur , ' 1902 , p. 106 .
** Neufield and Rimpau , ' Deutsch .
Med. Wochenschr .
, ' 1904 , p. 1458 .
+t Dean , op .
tit .
Leishman , 'Path .
Soc. Trans. , ' 1905_ SS Wright and Reid , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 77 , p. 211 .
1907 .
] Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
certain cases the serum of patients suffering from tuberculosis may contain a considerable proportion of heat-resisting opsonin , a circumstance which may aid the diagnosis .
The question therefore arises as to what is the relationship between the thermolabile and the thermostable opsonins .
Dean thinks that the opsonin is of the nature of an immune substance , and that in the case of normal serum it undergoes a large fractional destruction by heat , whereas in an immune serum .
the portion which is thermostable is increased .
He , however , mentions the possibility that the opsonic effect of a normal serum may in part be due to complement .
Wright and Eeid consider that the opsonin in a normal and in an immune serum alike is one and the same , and prefer to call it thermolabile .
The question as to the identity of such substances may be studied in other ways than that of testing their powers of resistance to heat .
One method is to test whether cell receptors combined with their corresponding immune-bodies will take up the opsonins of immune sera , as we have shown that they take up the labile opsonins of normal sera and as they take up complements .
Another method is to test the degree of specificity in their combining affinities\#151 ; to test , that is , to what extent one bacterium will absorb the opsonins for other bacteria .
This has been done by Bulloch and Western* to a certain extent , and also by Hektoenj* in the case of haemopsonins , and to these experiments further reference will be made below .
But the method has not been carried out fully in a comparative way as between normal and immune sera respectively .
We shall now give an account of experiments performed by us to elucidate these questions in the case of an immune serum , giving in each instance for comparison the effects on normal opsonins under the same conditions of experiment .
We have made use of two samples of anti-staphylococcic serum .
One of these was kindly given to us by Dr. Dean , for which we have pleasure in recording our indebtedness , whilst the other was obtained by us from a rabbit by repeated intravenous injections of dead cultures of Staphylococcus aureus .
As it was employed at various stages in the process of immunisation , the degree of the opsonic effect varies considerably in the different experiments .
We may state that heating for several hours at 55 ' C. appears to have no appreciable effect on the thermostable immune opsonin .
The serum thus contrasts very markedly with the normal rabbit 's serum , the opsonic effect of which is practically destroyed by heating for an hour at 55 ' C. Q 2 * Bulloch and Western , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 77 , 531 .
+ Hektoen ' Journ. of Infectious Diseases , ' 1906 , p. 721 .
190 Prof. Muir and Mr. Martin .
On .the Combining [ Jan. 18 , I. The Effects of Absorbers of Complement on Normal and Immune Opsonins .
We have tested whether or not the three combinations of receptors + immune-body which we formerly used , absorb the opsonin of the immune serum .
The two following experiments bring out at a glance the differences in the effects of treating a normal and an immune-serum in various ways , each serum being afterwards tested on an emulsion of the Staphylococcus aureus in the usual way:\#151 ; Opsonic index.* Normal serum of rabbit\#151 ; Fresh and untreated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
18*1 Heated one hour at 55 ' 0 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*6 Unheated and treated with red corpuscles + immune body ... 0*7 Unheated and treated .
with serum precipitate ... ... ... ... . .
1*0 Unheated and treated with emulsion of Staphylococcus aureus ... 0*7 It is thus seen , in accordance with our previous results , that practically all the normal opsonin is removed by these various methods of treating the serum .
To contrast with this we give the results in the case of an immune serum .
Opsonic index .
Anti-staphylococcus serum from rabbit\#151 ; Fresh and unheated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
12*3 Heated one hour at 55 ' C ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
2*9 Unheated and treated with red corpuscles + immune body ... ... .
3*1 Unheated and treated with serum precipitate ... ... ... ... ... ... 3*5 Unheated and treated with emulsion of Staphylococcus au/ reus ... 0*7 It is thus seen that f treating the serum with the substances which absorb complements has practically the same effect on the serum as heating has } there being approximately the same amount of immune opsonin left .
An emulsion of staphylococcus , however , removes the opsonin almost entirely .
Other confirmatory examples may be given :\#151 ; Treatment by Precipitate .
Opsonic index .
Anti-staphylococcus serum\#151 ; Fi'esh and unheated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
18*2 Heated one hour at 55 ' C. ... ... ... ... ... .
6*9 Unheated and treated with precipitate ... . .
5*8 * The term " opsonic index " is used in the original sense to indicate the average number of cocci contained in a polymorphonuclear leucocyte .
The observations given in each table were of course carried out at the same time .
t The methods of treating a given serum are the same as those given by us in our previous paper , quoted above .
1907 .
] Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune .
191 In this case there was an enormous excess of precipitate , the actual bulk of the precipitate being three times that of the serum ; there would , therefore , probably be some dilution of the serum .
The treated serum has practically the same opsonic value as the heated .
Treatment by Precipitate.* Opsonic index .
Anti-staphylococcus serum \#151 ; Heated at 55 ' C ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7*2 Heated and treated with precipitate ... . .
7'0 Normal serum\#151 ; Unheated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
24*6 Unheated and treated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*86 Treatment by J Red Corpuscles + .
Anti-staphylococcus serum\#151 ; Heated at 55 ' C ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
8*3 Heated and treated ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
9*4 Normal serum\#151 ; .
Unheated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 20*8 Unheated and treated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
0*8 The opsonin of the normal serum is absorbed , whereas that of the immune serum is unaffected .
Treatment by Emulsion of V. Metchnikovi + Immune-Body .
Opsonic index .
Anti-staphylococcus serum\#151 ; Heated at 55 ' C. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17*2 Heated and treated ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
17*5 Normal serum\#151 ; Unheated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25*0 Unheated and treated ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
2*36 The result is the same as before .
We have also endeavoured to remove the opsonin of the immune serum by treating it twice with a considerable quantity of serum precipitate , the precipitate being separated by centrifugalisation after each treatment , but no diminution of the opsonin has resulted .
The following is an example in .which the effects on the normal and the immune serum of the rabbit are once more compared :\#151 ; * In this and the two following experiments the anti-serum was the one which we obtai ned from Dr. Dean .
192 Prof. Muir and Mr. Martin .
On the Combining [ Jan. 18 , Normal Serum .
Opsonic index .
Normal serum of rabbit ( unheated ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 17*0 " " treated once with staphylococcus emulsion ... 1*6 " " " twice " " ... 0-25 n " " once with serum precipitate ... ... ... . .
11*3 " " " twice " " ... 0*3 Immune Serum .
Anti-staphylococcus serum ( heated at 55 ' C. ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
23*3 " " treated once with staphylococcus emulsion 23*0 " " \#187 ; twice \#187 ; \#187 ; 2*2 " " once with precipitate ... ... ... ... .
25*0 " " W twice " ... ... ... ..u 23*0 The result , again , is that the serum precipitate removes the opsonin from the normal serum , but has no effect on the stable opsonin of the immune serum .
Summary.\#151 ; It appears , from the above experiments , that in the case of a fresh anti-staphylococcus serum the effect of treating with substances which absorb complement is practically the same as heating the serum , there being a considerable residuum of opsonin in both cases .
Further , after the ther-molabile opsonin has been destroyed by heat , the stable opsonin remains practically unaffected by treatment which removes normal complement and normal opsonin .
In other words , substances which we may call complement-absorbers do not fix or combine with the thermostable opsonin of the immune serum .
II .
On the Relative Specificity of Normal and Immune Opsonins .
An emulsion of dead bacteria is well known to have the power of absorbing serum complements , as shown , for example , by haemolytic tests ; it also absorbs the opsonin of a normal serum as tested by the Staphylococcus aureus .
We have accordingly tested the effect on the opsonin of our immune serum .
In the following tables the comparative results are shown:\#151 ; Normal Serum .
Opsonic index .
Normal serum of rabbit ( unheated ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 38*0 " " treated with Staphylococcus aureus ... ... ... .
0*02 " , , 99 Bacillus coli ... ... ... ... ... . .
3*3 " , , " V. Metchnikovi ... ... ... ... ... . .
4*11 " " " Tuberculosis Bacillus ... ... ... .
2*6 " , , " Bacillus pyocyaneus ... ... ... ... 3*4 1907 .
] Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
Immune Serum .
Anti-staphylococcus serum ( heated at 55 ' C. ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7*8 n " treated with Staphylococcus aureus ... ... 0*36 n " , , Bacillus coli ... ... ... ... . .
8*8 M " " V. 7*5 " " " Bacillus tuberculosis ... ... ... 7*9 " " " B ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6*7 The tables show that emulsions of all the organisms tested produce a marked diminution of the normal opsonin , whereas none of them , with the exception of the staphylococcus , have any appreciable effect on the immune opsonin .
In another experiment we treated the heated immune serum twice with large quantities of B. coli , B. dysenterice , Cholera spirillum , B. typhosus , Staphylococcus pyogenes albus .
In the case of the last mentioned , there was apparently a slight diminution of the opsonic power , viz. , from 26*7 to 20*3\#151 ; a comparatively trifling effect in view of the close relationships of the two organisms ; the serum was , however , practically without opsonic effect on the Staphylococcus albus .
In the case of the other bacteria mentioned , there was no diminution whatever of the opsonin after treatment with the organisms .
These experiments , by the method of absorption , bring out a very marked difference as regards specificity between the opsonins of a normal and of an immune serum .
With the exception of the possible slight effect in the case of the Staphylococcus albus , we have failed to find any organism , except the Staphyloccocus aureus , which absorbs the opsonin from the heated antistaphylococcus serum .
In the case of the opsonins of a normal unheated serum , the result is entirely different , as is shown by the table given above .
Every organism tested has absorbed large quantities of opsonin when the Staphylococcus aureus is used as the test for opsonic action.* At the same time , the staphylococcus appears to remove this opsonin more quickly than any of the others .
We have tested to what extent it is possible to remove the opsonin of normal serum for Staphylococcus aureus by treating the serum twice with an emulsion of another organism , e.g. , the B. coli .
The results are:\#151 ; Normal Serum .
Opsonic index .
Guinea-pig 's serum ( unheated ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
21*5 a a treated once with Staphylococcus aureus ... ... ... ... ... .
1*0 \#187 ; \#187 ; \gt ; a twice " " ... ... ... 0*4 a a a once with B. coli . .
2*1 a a a twice " , a"'.,.w ... ... ... ... ... .
1*3 * These results , so far as the normal ofpsonins are concerned , are in harmony with those of Simon Lamar and Bispham , whose paper ( 'Journ .
of Exper .
Med. , ' December , 1906 p. 651 ) has come into our hands since the present communication was written .
194 Prof. Muir and Mr. Martin .
On the Combining [ Jan. 18 , There is , therefore , only a slight difference as regards absorbing powers in favour of the Staphylococcus aureus .
The immune serum was tested at the same time , and once more a great difference is brought out .
Immune Serum .
Opsonic index .
Anti-staphylococcus serum ( heated at 55 ' C. ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
26'7 " " treated twice with B. coli ... ... ... ... . .
25*4 " " " Staphylococcus aureus ... 1*6 These results , as regards the specificity of the normal opsonins , appear to be at variance with the results obtained by Bulloch and Western .
They found only a slight reduction of the tubercle opsonin of normal human serum on treatment with the Staphylococcus aureus , and of the staphylococcus opsonin on treatment with the tubercle bacillus .
As stated above , we found a great reduction of the staphylococcus opsonin on treating the normal rabbit 's serum with the tubercle bacillus .
The difference in the results probably depends upon the amount of the bacterial emulsion employed .
In every case we used a large amount ; in the tubes after centrifugalisation , the volume of the deposit of bacteria would be about a tenth of the volume of the serum , sometimes more .
This is , no doubt , a large quantity , but it is to be noted that the same amounts were employed in the case of the immune serum , and no diminution of the opsonin was observed .
The difference in the two kinds of serum is , therefore , very remarkable .
We have stated above that the opsonin for a particular organism appears to be more rapidly removed from a normal serum by an emulsion of that organism than of any other , whilst at the same time any bacterial emulsion will absorb large quantities of that opsonin .
At present we are unable to give the explanation of that fact .
We use the term " normal opsonin " for the labile substance which is destroyed by heat , but we do not know whether or not another substance is present in small amount which acts as an immune body .
The problem is very much the same as in the case of bactericidal action .
A closely analogous phenomenon was demonstrated by Bordet* in the case of haemolysis .
Normal guinea-pig 's serum , after treatment with rabbit 's corpuscles , is deprived of its lytic action for these corpuscles ; it still , however , produces lysis of pigeon 's corpuscles .
If , however , the serum be treated by a more powerful absorber of complement , viz. , rabbit 's corpuscles treated with immune-body , it loses also its haemolytic action on pigeon 's corpuscles .
And it has been shown in our previous paper that an emulsion of a bacterium treated with immune-body absorbs more * Bordet , ' Annales de l'lnst .
Pasteur , ' 1901 , p. 317 .
1907 .
] Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
195 opsonin than the emulsion untreated , the amount of opsonin left being practically the same as when the serum is heated .
The following is an additional example:\#151 ; Opsonic Action of Normal Human Serum on the Tubercle Bacillus .
Opsonic index .
Normal serum unheated ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 6*5 , , " heated at 55 ' C. ... ... ... ... ... .
0*2 " " treated with emulsion of V. Metchnikovi + immune-body ... ... ... ... ... ... 0*19 III .
The Kelations of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
Our results , as above detailed , show that the opsonin of the anti-staphylococcus serum corresponds as regards specificity and combining relationships with true anti-substances developed in the process of immunisation .
Does it correspond with the type of an immune-body or of an agglutinin ?
Does it in combination with its corresponding receptor lead to the absorption of complement , or does it not ?
In the first place , it is certain that every immune-body does not produce an opsonic effect .
We have an anti-coli serum , for example , which contains immune-body in considerable quantity , but it has no opsonic effect .
A given amount of emulsion of the B. coli alone was found to take up 0*04 c.c. of guinea-pig 's complement , while the same amount of emulsion treated with the anti-serum took up 0*12 c.c. , the absorption of complement being tested by the usual haemolytic methods .
In the case of the anti-staphylococcic serum the amount of immune-body appeared to be considerably less .
The sample with the greatest opsonic power gave the following results:\#151 ; emulsion of staphylococci alone took up 0*03 c.c. of guinea-pig 's complement , the same quantity treated with immune-body took up 0*075 c.c. This sample had a very powerful opsonic action , giving , when heated , an average count of 20 cocci per leucocyte in the usual test .
The anti-staphylococcus serum which we got from Dr. Dean had a weaker though still very decided opsonic action , yet it produced a scarcely perceptible increase in the amount of complement absorbed ; that is , it contained a mere trace of immune-body .
We are inclined to think from these results that the opsonin in an immune serum may not be an immune-body , but has the constitution of an agglutinin .
But this is merely an expression of opinion , as we know nothing with regard to the real amounts of these substances .
In order to say that the immune-body did not act as opsonin , we would need to get an anti-serum with opsonic effect but containing no immune-body , and this we have not yet obtained .
If the opsonin has the constitution of an agglutinin , that is , possesses merely a combining and an active ( agglutinating ) group , is the opsonin 196 Combining Properties of the Opsonin of an Immune Serum .
merely the agglutinin ?
To this question we can give no definite answer .
We have tested three anti-sera , viz. , the Staphylococcus , the B. coli , and the Vibrio Metchnikovi , and have found that they all possess agglutinating properties , while the anti-coli serum alone has no opsonic action .
It is quite possible* that the same substances may act at the same time as agglutinin and as opsonin , and that one of these properties may be wanting in any given case ; but at present we have no facts to justify any expression of opinion .
So far as phagocytosis is concerned , the all-important factor in active immunity would appear to be the development of an immune opsonin with comparatively specific characters .
In testing the opsonic effect of an unheated immune serum the result will represent the sum of the actions of the complement-like opsonin and the immune opsonin .
As complements do not appear to increase in amount during immunisation , a rise of opsonic index will probably depend upon the development of immune opsonin , and will thus have a certain specific character .
Thus Bulloch and Western found that inoculation of a patient with tubercle vaccine produced an increase of tubercle opsonin but not of staphylococcus opsonin , and conversely inoculation with staphylococcus vaccine caused an increase of the staphylococcus opsonin but not of the tubercle opsonin .
This appears to be in harmony with the results which we have obtained .
On the other hand , a fall in the opsonic index might be due to diminution of the complement-like opsonin , and thus be without specific significance .
Further observations will be made on this point .
General Conclusions .
( 1 ) The thermolabile opsonin of a normal serum and the thermostable opsonin of an immune serum are two distinct classes of substances .
In addition to differing markedly as regards their resistance to heat , they differ in their combining relationships .
( 2 ) The thermostable opsonin of the anti-serum investigated is a true anti-substance , and possesses the comparatively specific characters of antisubstances in general ; it is left undetermined whether it has the constitution of an agglutinin or of an immune-body , though certain facts point in favour of the former .
( 3 ) Emulsions of other organisms other than the organism used in immunisation ( Staphylococcus aureus ) do not absorb the immune opsonin ; on the other hand , they absorb large amounts of the normal complement-like opsonin .
( 4 ) Powerful complement-absorbers\#151 ; red corpuscles or bacteria treated with immune-body , or serum precipitate\#151 ; have no effect on the thermostable immune opsonin , whereas they remove almost completely the labile opsonin of the normal and the immune serum alike .

