]\gt ; Lord Rayleigh .
On the Bridge Method in its employed in ordinary testing .
In the conjugate " " battery\ldquo ; periodic electromooive force of given frequency is the origin currents .
Special attention will be given to the case where the equal in pairs , e.g. , ( fig. 1 ) .
advantages arrangement are important even in ordinary resistance testing , in the generalised application are still more to be insisted upon .
mere interchange of and and combination of results , the of and can be verified independently of the exactitude ratio : If any element in the combination , for example , be a mere sistance , the difference of potentials at its terminals ( y ) is with the cnrrent , the relation We have , however , to suppose that is not merely a resistance even combination of such .
It may include an electromagnet , * may be interrnpted by a condenser .
So long as the strictly harmonic , proportional to , the most general relation between and is expressed by where and are the real and imaginary parts of a efficient , and are functions of the frequency .
In the lar case of a simple conductor , endowed with inductance sents the resistance , and is equal to .
In general , is but may be either positive , as in the above example , or The latter case arisos when a resistance , , is interrupted by denser of capacity C. Here .
If there inductance * An electromagnet here denotes a conductor with sensible may be present if the range of magnetisation be small.\mdash ; ' Lord Rayleigh .
On the , Method in its the coefficient of in the first equation being identical of in the second by the reciprocal property .
The three are in general complex quantities , functions of 1 ) .
In the application that we have to make of these equations , will represent respectively currents and electromotive tho battery and telephone branches of the combination .
ciprocal property may then be interpreted as follows : and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
In like manner , if we had supposed , we should have showing that the ratio of the current in one branch to an motive force operative in the other is independent of the which the parts are assigned to the two branchesWe have now to determine the constants in terms of electrical properties of the system .
If be maintained zero suitable force , the relation between and is our , A therefore denotes the ( generalised ) an electromotive force in the battery branch , when the telephone open .
This nce is made up of , tho resistance in the branch , and of that of the conductors parallel .
Thus , like manner , To debermine let us consider the force which must act ordel that the current through it may be zero , in spite operation of .
We have .
The total rent partly along the branch , and along .
The through is . . . . . .
Application to Etectric Currents .
of tials at the terminals of , supposed to be is thus ; . . . . . .
( 7 ) .
the relationship of to is nple ely the bridge requires determination of the curto , when , that is , when no elecin the bridge , and the solution is given at into ( 2 ) of the values from ( 4 ) , approximate balance , the expression simplifies .
small , and may be no , lected relatively to AC of ( 2 ) .
Thus , as a sufficient approximation in . .
( 8 ) , Lord Rayleigh .
On the Bridge Method in its The case that we have to deal with is when ; acts in , and is no .F .
in .
We are at liberty , however , to suppose that opposite forces , each of nitude B , acts in .
One of as we have seen , acting in conjunction with in , gives no in , so that , since electromotive forces act independently of another , the actual current in , closed without internal simply that due to the other component .
The question is thus duced to the determination of the current in due to a given in that branch .
So far the argument is rigorous ; but we will now suppose we have to deal with an approximate balance .
In this case an in gives rise to very little current in , and in calculating the rent in we may suppose to be broken .
The total resistance to force in is then given imply by of equation , and the mate value for is derived by dividing by , as we in ( 8 ) .
A continued application of the foregoing process gives in form of an infinite geometric series :\mdash ; This is the rigorous solution already found ; but the first term the series suffices for practical purposes .
The of ( 8 ) enables us at once to compare the effects of memts of resistance and inductance in disturbing a balance .
For , and then chaDge d to where .
The of is proportional to , and the amplitude of the current in the bridge is proportional to Mod , that is , .
Thus are equally efficacious when equal .
The next application that we shall make of ( 8 ) is to the ised form of Schwendler 's problem .
When all else is given , should the telephune , or other receiving instrument , be wound order to get the greatest effect If by separation of real and imaginary Ilarts we set the factor in the denominator of 6 ) with which we are becomes ; and the square of the modulus is given by Mo Application to Electric Currents .
equation are essentially positive , while may be positive or negative .
If and are both at disposal , the of ( 10 ) , corresponding to the lmum current , is found ( 11 ) .
this is not the practical qnestion .
As in the case of simple what we have to aim at is not to render the current in the a maximum , but rather the effect of the current .
Whether receiving instrument be a galvanometer or a telephone , we cannot practice rsduce its resistance to zero without at the same time nullifying the effect desired .
We must ratheu regard the space available for the windings as given , and merely how it may best be utilised .
Now the effect required to be exalted is , coeteris paribus , proportional the number of windings ; and , if the space occupied by insulation be proportional to that occupied by copper , the resistance varies as .
So also does the inductance ; and accordingly , if tho instrument be connected to the bridge by leads sensibly devoid of resistance and inductance , .
( 12 ) , are independent of .
The quantity whose modulus is to made a minimum by variation of is thus ; we have is a minimum by variation of when ' Mod Mod . . . . . . . . . .
( 13 ) .
may express this result by saying that to get the best effect trument must be so wound hat its i , npedance is equal to that the compound conductor .
If for any reason the inductances be omitted from consideration , then the resistance of the instruis to be made squal to , in accordance with Schwendler 's of the ' battery\ldquo ; branch may often be treated in like As Mr. Heaviside has shown , if a number of cells are Lord Rayleigh .
On the Bridge Method in its available for ordinary resistance testing , they should be that their resistance is equal to that of binatiom of wires in parallel .
Periodic currents may be arise from the rotation of a coil in a magnetic field of given If the space occupied by the windings of the coil be supposed to given , their number will be determined by the condition of impedances .
Thus , if . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mod Mod . . . . . . . . . .
in analogy with ( 13 ) .
The above i.s the solution of the problem , if the coils of the and receiving instruments represent the whole of their branches , and are limited to occupy given spaces .
The and resistances cannot then be varied indepenclently .
But would often be no difficulty in escaping this limitation .
inclusion of additional resista , , external to the instrument , only do harm ; but case is otherwise with nductance , positive negative .
If the inductance of the instrument added to , or to he positive , the total inductance may be reduced to zero by the tion of a suitable condenser , and this without material increase resistance .
If the inductance be already negative , the remedy is so easily carried out ; but , theoretically , it is possible to add necessary inductance without sensible increase of resistance .
greater the frequency of vibration , the more feasible does this become .
We , therefore , without much violence , suppose the induct , ances of two branches can be reduced to zero additional resistance .
Th and the condition of maximum efficiency of the transmitting receiving coils is then given by Schwendler 's rule , . . . . . . . . . .
These suppositions form a reasonable basis for tion ; but conclusions founded upon them will be subject to examination , especially in extreme cases .
We may also now the promised simplification , in accordance with which ( 8 ) becomes . . . .
Application to Periodicj Etectric Currents . . .
( 21 ) .
It may be well to examine , first , the consequences of ( 19 ) , in the case of simple resistances .
Here , . . . . . . . . .
( 22 ) ; , . . . .
( 23 ) .
In accordance with the ) proposed , we are to make .
Our eqnation then becomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
is still at disposal , and we see that according to ( 24 ) it to be diminished limit .
This conclusion does not with one obtained by Mr. Heaviside .
It must be obhowever , is unpractical , involving , as it does , Even according to ( 24 ) there is little to ?
) gained by below , say , .
In this case . . . .
( 25 ) .
arrangement as ( 25 ) may be recommended for practical is .
large , there may be advantage in taking relatively than the above example .
In such cases we approach the condition of things , have ) pproximately . . . . . . .
( 26 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 27 ) .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the Bridge Method in its The next remark that has to be made is that , even when ductors , and , to be compared are endowed with drotances positive or no gative ) the problem may still , coterought under the above head .
Suppose , for example , that represent nearly equal electromagnets .
Their inductances compensated by the introduction ( in series ) of suitable equal densers into these branches , so that and are reduced to and If then we assume to be a simple resistance , the solution as before .
Two objections may here be raised .
First , on theoretical side it has not been proved to be advantageous to ; and , secondly , the introduction of extraneous even with interchange , into the branches to be accurately may be a complication unfavourable to success .
We will resume the consideration of ( 19 ) , supposing that . . . .
being given by ( 20 ) , ( 21 ) .
Thus , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
the question before us is how to make the modulus of the fraction on the a maximum variation of .
In the nominator of this fraction and real , and the modulus is .
For the numerator we have so that Also from the definition of ; so that Thus Mod and this is to be made a minimum by variation of use of condensers or electromagnets in the branches course , upon a different footing .
Application to Feriodic Elictric Currents .
; show that ( 30 ) can be reduced to zero ; } ) for the moment we will so far limit the generality of as to suppose that being real and posibive .
( 30 ) then reduces to ; and by ( 29 ) . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 31 ) .
AccordingIy , the maximum sensitiveness callnot be attained until is reduced to zero , so fhat vanish .
( 31 ) may be regarded as a generalised form of ( 24 ) , free from the limitation that , provided be so taken that We will now suppose in ( 30 ) that and are both small , and in the first instance that is finite .
We have . .
( 32 ) ; and this reduces ultimately to its first term , depending upon the ratio only of and The expression vanishes if : be small enough , so that ( 30 ) can certainly be thus reduced to .
It is remarkable that the expression for the sensitiveness should be capabls of ing infinite by suitable choice of .
If we first suppose that is absolutely zero , and afterwards that diminishes without limit , the ultimate value of ( 32 ) is in place of zero .
From the practical point of view , these conclusions from our equations are not particularly satisfactory .
We began with certain proposals which , in ordinary cases , could be carried out ; but in the end we are to apply them to an extrcme and impossible state of things .
We have found , however , in what direction we must tend in the search for sensitiveness ; and useful information may be gathered from ( 32 ) .
In practice could not be reduced below a certain point .
question may then be asked , what is the best value of , when is given P From ( 32 ) we find at once that . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 33 ) , ( 32 ) then becoming .
( 34 ) .
from ( 29 ) Mod . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 85 ) , of in that , we have . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 36 ) .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the Bridge Method its To take a example , let ; and suppose Then , according to ( 33 ) , .
Also by ( 20 ) , ; The corresponding minimum value of ( 32 ) , equal .
But with this value of the gain by allowing to great .
If ; ; and value of ( 32 ) , equaI to ( 36 ) , is We see from ( 36 ) that when there is little to be gained further reduction of .
But when is litably chosen may be worth Thus , ( 34 ) , if , we have Corresponding to this nearly , and ; Thess are not unreasonable proportions , and we see that the use may be advantageous , even when the subject of measurement mere resistance .
It will be remarked too that , except as , the sign of is immaterial .
When branches of electromagnets , and still when they consist of condensers , may be ve small .
If we pose it to be zero , ( 30 ) becomes to this from ( 20 ) , , . . . . . .
From ( 37 ) we see that the increase of , is favourable , if the be the same as of .
Even if now the form . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
to Periodic Electric 21.5 be reduced to zero by taking small enough .
But of course ( 37 ) ceases to bc applicable unless be small ] to .
In correspondence with ( 40 ) , As an example of ( 37 ) , suppose - . . . . . . . . .
( 41 ) ; . . . . . .
( 42 ) .
Then ) Also approximately If represent the stiffnef , S of a condenser , must be a itive inductance , and its magnitude , relativoly to , would probably constitute a As an example , with equal to zero , take Then ( 37 ) nearly , the g.eneral theory is concerned , it is a matter of difetbcr ) be in the branch , or in ebpond s to the connections in De Sauty 's method condensers by of the galvanometer .
In I obably l available for the coils of a ting than of the receiving , at lcast , tter bc and this would tell in your of at branch for have the larger time constant .
idea of Iative capacities , ances , we must asbume a particular pitch .
A frequency experiments is 1000 per secolld , for whiclt , if the value of for a condenser of capacity , and that of for a resistance , are all , eqnal to C.G.S. , tho capacity is , equal to 160 microfarads , and the ( orreHponding On the Bridge Method and Periodic Currenfs .
inductance is C.G.S. Again , if be one microfarad , to C.G.S. , is 160 ohms , and is cm .
In the preceding calculations and are supposed to be to the values most favourable to the effect in the receiving meant .
A question , which arises quite as often in practice , is make the best of given instruments .
The full answer is somewhat complicated ; for there could be no objection to the tion of a condenser for example , if the sensitiveness could be pro thereby .
In what follows , however , the transmitting receiving branches will be supposed to be fully given , so that are known complex quantities ; and the only questiott to be is as to the most suitable value of , assumed to be eqnal to For this purpose the modulus of the second action on the in ( 19 ) is to be a maximum , or that of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
is to be a minimum , by variation of .
The problem thus determining the minimum modulus of a function of a quantity may be treated generally .
Let , and let it be required to find when modulus2 of , , is a miuimum by variation of .
We have . . . .
And in general . . . . . .
In order that ( 44 ) , ( 45 ) may both obtain , we must have , or else ' The latter conditions are equivalent to For example , let . . . . . . . . . . . . .
where are complex constants .
fluence of Pressure on the Spectra of Flames .
( 46 ) gives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 48 ) , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 49 ) .
then that the modulus of ( 43 ) will be a minimum , when . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 50 ) , taking the square root the ambiguity must be so determined as the real part of positive .
( 50 ) coincides with that by Mr. Heaviside for where all the quantities are real . .
' On { he Influence of Pressure on the Spcctra of Flames By .
D. , F.R.S. , Prol.essor of Chemistry , and J. DEWAR , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professo ] , of Cambridg .
Received , 1891 .
We have already described Phil. Trans remarkable of the burning at the ordinary atmopressure .
Recently we have examined } ) ectrum of the at variollS psurcs : hydrogen in excess of to a ; ur of 40 , and oxygen in excess of up to a pressure of atmospherei , , also .
thab of the mixed burning in bonic acid gas .
apparatus employed was an adaptation of cxne of the nbes in our expeliments on the absorption of essed ( ' Phil. Mag September , 1888 , and 'Roy . .
Proc vol. 46 , It consisted of a steeI cylinder , about 50 mm. in interllal and mm. long , fitted at o1le end with a stopper , the annexed figure , and with a jet , , for ning the gas , by a operly fitting urlion joint the } ) posite end .
) two tubes , and , connected to the cylinder at the sides , of one , for the introduction of gas , the other , fitted a stopcock was used to draw off the water formed , reduco prsssure the gas in the cylinder if was The flame was observed , nearly end on , th ough the quartz The apparatus was kept cool by a of on to a sponge cloth wrapped round the cylinder .
of the tube conveying gas to the jet was intel.posed a , in which sodium was placed , and by heating could be charged with sodium vapour .

