158 Dr. H. Airy on the [ June 15 , its influence nevertheless appears to depend on the solar activity ( a result similar to that obtained by Mr. J. A. Broun in the case of terrestrial magnetism ) , it is argued that even if there be a connexion between mean annual temperature-range and the sun-spot period , yet we cannot expect both periods to march together in the same way , inasmuch as the first is due entirely to the sun , while the latter appears to depend upon the moon as well .
This may possibly explain the redundant temperature fluctuation already alluded to ; but the discussion of the subject must be further advanced before we can pronounce upon this point .
XVI .
" On the Leaf-arrangement of the Crowberry nigrum ) .
" By Hubert Airy , M.A. , M.D. Communicated by Charles Darwin , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) Pursuing the study of leaf-arrangement , the author finds that the crowberry of our moors ( Empetrum nigrum ) habitually exhibits a peculiar mo le of variation in the arrangement of the leaves on different parts of the same twig .
Out of fifty crowberry-twigs taken at random , only four ( and these fragments ) preserved the same arrangement throughout .
In the remaining forty-six the leaf-arrangement was found to undergo a progressive change in ascending from the base of the twig to the summit\#151 ; a change from a simpler order to others more complex .
In general the basal order was that denoted by the fraction f ; and this was found to pass most frequently into f , which in turn was found to pass into | , with or without an intermediate set of whorls of 4 : -| generally passed into whorls of 5 , sometimes into T2T , which was the most complex arrangement that was met with in this plant .
The following is a list of the transitions found in the fifty specimens :\#151 ; Transition from 4 ( or -| ) to .
1- occurred 22 times .
99 99 do .
do .
99 2 9 99 5 99 99 99 do .
do .
99 whorls of 5 99 1 99 99 99 whorls of 3 99 2 7 99 2 99 99 99 f 99 whorls of 4 99 10 99 99 99 2 T 99 a* 99 2 99 99 99 2 T 99 2 9 99 9 99 99 99 whorls of 4 99 2 9 99 5 99 99 99 a* 99 2 TT 99 1 V 99 99 1 99 whorls of 5 99 5 99 99 99 1 99 2 TT 99 1 99 99 99 whorls of 5 99 t2t 99 1 99 Total 64 * By a the author denotes a 4- , 6- , 10-ranked order , such as is found in heads of Dipsacacete .
1876 .
] Leaf-arrangement of the Crowberry .
159 In all these instances the striking peculiarity to be observed is that the arrangement passes from an order belonging to one phyllotactic series ( e.g.from the order f in the primary series 3 , -f , \amp ; c. ) to an order belonging to another phyllotactic series ( .g .
to the order -S- in the secondary series 5 , | , \amp ; c. ) , and that this is a phenomenon which could not result from uniform vertical condensation of the lower arrangement ; whereas in other plants the ordinary transition is from one order to another of the same series { e.g. from f- to jf , T5^ , ^y , \amp ; c. ) , and is such as would result from uniform vertical condensation of the lower arrangement ( as the author has shown in a paper read before the Royal Society on the 30th April , 1874 : see Proc. vol. xxii .
p. 298 ) .
In order to examine the mode in which the above transitions were effected , the author constructed an instrument ( described below ) by meaus of which he obtained diagrams , pricked on paper , of the leaf-arrangement of the fifty specimens .
On comparison of these diagrams it was found that , in every case where the details could be traced , a gradual dislocation ( so to speak ) took place between two adjacent spirals belonging to one of the two sets of spirals with least angular divergence , whereby the other set became deranged and gave rise to new sets having different numbers .
Thus the transition from the arrangement ( in which the spirals of least angular divergence are 2 in one direction and 3 in the other ) to the arrangement ( in which those spirals are 3 in one direction and 4 in the other ) was effected by an apparent slip between two of the 3 spirals , whereby the 2 spirals became deranged and helped to form a new set of 4 spirals , which with the old persistent set of 3 formed the spirals of least angular divergence in the new arrangement while a new primary spiral arose , turning in an opposite direction to the old .
( A diagram is required to make this clear .
) In all these transitions the change of order is brought about not by any agency affecting all parts of the system uniformly all round the axis , but by a disturbance of the relative position of leaves along one special spiral tract .
The variations described by the Rev. Gr .
Henslow ( Trans. Linn. Soc. vol. xxvi .
p. 647 ) as occurring in the leaf-arrangement of tuberosus appear to be similar in character to those of nigrum but much more limited in range .
The author has met with a few other instances of the same kind in other plants .
It is noteworthy , in the above transitions , that the primary spiral of the basal order is lost at the first change and gives place to a new one turning in the opposite direction , which , again , is replaced by another at the next change : in fact , in the crowberry , no rank or set of ranks is found to possess enduring value , but all are liable to derangement .
They appear to be only the local result of the geometrical conditions of mutual accommodation of contiguous leaves under mutual pressure ( which brings with it the common need of economy of space ' ) in the bud .
This principle the author has before enunciated , with regard to the 1G0 On the Leaf-arrangement of the Crowberry.[June 15 , more common forms of leaf-arrangement , in the paper above referred to ( Proceedings of the Boyal Society , 1874 , vol. xxii .
p. 298 , \amp ; c. ) , and in a " Note on Variation of Leaf-arrangement , " read before the British Association at Belfast in August 1874 ( see Bep .
Brit. Assoc. 1874 , Trans. Sect. p. 128 ) .
Having there drawn attention to two ways in which modification of leaf-arrangement appears mainly to have been brought about\#151 ; namely , ( 1 ) direct variation of number of vertical leaf-ranks , producing the fundamental orders of different phyllotactic series , and ( 2 ) subsequent variation of degree of uniform condensation , effecting transition between different orders of the same series\#151 ; he now shows ( 3 ) , from examination of the crowberry , that transition between different orders of different series is brought about apparently by means of unequal condensation resulting in spiral dislocation between adjacent secondary ranks .
The instrument ( " taxigraph " ) used in this research consists of a twig-holder which rotates in fixed bearings , the twig being held in the axis of rotation under a framed lens which slides on fixed guides parallel to the twig .
Thus the angular position , of any leaf is observed by aid of the rotation of the twig-holder , and the vertical position by aid of the sliding motion of the lens .
The sliding motion of the lens is conveyed by cords and pulleys to a light frame carrying a strip of paper beneath the platform , which is the base of the instrument ; and the rotary motion of the twig-holder is made , by aid of cords and pulleys , to draw a sliding pin-holder to and fro along a slit in the platform at right angles to the direction of motion of the strip of paper below .
The pin , in any position of the slider along the slit , is made to pierce the strip of paper on pressing a lever .
Every leaf on the twig is thus observed , and a corresponding pin-prick made in the paper .
The longitudinal position of any pinprick shows the vertical position of the leaf , and the lateral position of the pin-prick shows the angular position of the leaf .
The whole figure represents the leaf-arrangement of the twig in radial projection , and is bounded laterally by twTo vertical lines corresponding to one and the same vertical line on the twig .
By enlargement of the lateral dimension the arrangement is shown relatively foreshortened .
The author suggests modifications of this instrument by which it could be adapted to other forms of stem or twig ; e.g. by causing the paper to rotate under the sliding pin-holder , and by giving the lens a quadrantal motion , it would be adapted to flat or conical systems such as the heads of Composite .
The paper was accompanied by the original fifty specimens ( less one , lost ) , and by the fifty " taxigrams " obtained from them : two of these were especially referred to in illustration of the paper .
The instrument used was also exhibited .

