]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
WBBB , H. A.\mdash ; On the Convergence of Infinite Series of Analytic Functions .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 204 , 1905 , pp. Approximate Value of a Function for large Values of the Variable .
WEBB , H. A. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 204 , 1905 , pp. 481-497 .
Convergence of a Serieo of LaIne 's Function WEBB , H. A. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 204 , 1905 , pp. Expansion of a Function in b'eries of HypergeolIletric Functions .
WEBB , H. A. Phil. Trans. , , vol. 204 , 1905 , pp. 481-497 . .
On the Convergence of Infinite Series of Analytic Functions .
H. A. WEBB , B.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor A. R. FOBSYTH , Sc. D. , .D .
, F.R. Received November 10 , \mdash ; Read November 24 , 1904 .
IN the first section of the following work an attempt is made to deal with the convergence of infinite series of functions defined by linear differential equations of the second order from the most general point of view .
Functions of LAME , BESSEL and LEGENDRE are considered as examples .
In second section the results obtained are applied to the expansion of an arbitrary uniform analytic function of in a series of hypergeometric functions , and the expansion is shown to be valid if the function is regular within a certain ellipse in the -plane .
An expansion in a series of LEGENDRE'S associated functions is deduced by a transformation .
The method has been applied by the writer to other cases , but the foregoing offer adequate illustration of the general theory .
SECTION THEOREMS .
S1 .
I.\mdash ; Consider the differential equation ( 1 ) , where is a large constant , are analytic functions of , independent of without singularities or branch-points so long as lies within a given simplyconnected region in the -plane , though may have singularities on the boundary of ; and the series defining converges if , so long as is in the region S. Let be a point within S. VOL CCIV .
6 .
Consider the particular integral of ( 1 ) defined , when , by : , where and are constants , and both series converge if The expres ( 2 ) , where functions of independent of , which can be constructed as a formal presentation of this integral , is for values of such that , and values of within the region , a convergent series and consequently a true representation of the integl.al considered .
Further , when is very large , is an approximate value of the integral , whether the integral and the approximate value increase indefinitely with or not .
This proposition has been proved by HORN* for functions of a real variable ; the proof for functions of a complex variable is similar ; a brief outline is as follows:\mdash ; Let be .
two independent integrals of the equation Write Then , where and being functions of and , developable in convergent series of powers of if *'Jathemtische Anualen , ' vol. 62 , p. 346 ( 1899 ) .
INFINITE OF YTIC If : , then , we integrate the equations , 2. .
with the initial conditions , we shall have provided this series converges .
We find that the integrals being taken along any finite path within the It can be proved by induction that either or , according as is greater or less than unity ; where is a finite real positive quantity , independent of Hence the series when multiplied by either or , according to the value of , is absolutely and uniformly convel.gent for all values of such S2 .
A slight change of notation is enient .
Consider the equation ( 3 ) , where is a positive integer , is expansible in the series arranged in descending powers of and convergent if is confined to a finite 4@4 MR. H. A. WEBB ON THE CONVERGENCE OF connected area in the -plane , within which is regular , though may have singularities on the boundary of C. is a positive quantity , and as well as must be regular within C. Then the approximate value of any solution of the equation ( 8 ) for large values of is . .
( 4 ) , where and are arbitrary constants , and , , are functions of that remain finite as increases indefinitely .
This follows from Theorem Unless } possesses a line of singularities everywhere dense , forming a closed curve , the result holds for all values of except the singularities and branch-points of .
Denote the solutions whose approximate values are and .
by and .
Denote by .
Theorem II.\mdash ; The series . .
( 5 ) , the 's being arbitrary save for the condition that the series has unit radius of convergence , is or is not absolutely convergent according as is less than or is greater than If converges or diverges according as converges or diverges .
For the term of the series ( 5 ) is approximately equal to . .
of which the modulus is .
; whence the result .
The examination of some special equations will illustrate Theorems and II .
S3 .
For LAME'S equation . . . . . . . .
( 6 ) , kcnz ) , INFINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC FUNCTIONS .
and the general solution of LANfi'S equation for large values of is approximately kcnz)kcnz ) . . . . . .
( 7 ) , where and are arbitrary constants .
In the notation of BYERLY* ( snz ) kcnz ) and kcnz ) approximately , for large values of , where .
Hence the series .
corresponding to 's equation converges if kcnx kcnt Write The condition reduces to ( 8 ) .
S4 .
The equation of the elliptic cylinder ( 9 ) is , in the notation of HEINE , satisfied by the functions and .
When is large , and , approximately .
Hence the series .
corresponding to the equation of the elliptic cylinder converges if 'FOURIER'S Series and Spherical Harmonics , p. 256 .
'Kugelfunctionen , ' 2nd edition , p. 404 .
MR. H. A. WEBB NVERGENCE o Let The condition is that ( 10 ) .
5 .
The equation ( 11 ) is satisfied by LEGENDRE'S associated functions and .
We find that when is a large positive integer and approximately .
Whence Accordingly the series . . . .
( 12 ) converges if and diverges if ; the 's being except that the power series has unit radius of convergence .
If the convergence depends on the values of the ; we shall exclude this case .
Let if .
Now let us choose the 's according to the following law .
Unless is an integral power of 3 , INFINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC FUNCTIONS .
For the series the circle of convergence is a cut , and the function defined by the series is regular within the circle , but has a line of singularities round the circle that everywhere dense .
Hence the series ( 13 ) defines a fnnction that is regular within the two loops of the oval of CASSINI where , which has singularities everywhere dense round the two loops , and which consequently cannot be continued across the boundary of either of the loops .
Hence we have constructed an analytic function that exists within two separate ions , is the same function in both regions , but cannot be analytically continued from one region into the S6 .
Consider the equation . . . .
( 14 ) , which is satisfied by the Bessel functions is a positive integer , is real , and the cases and an are excluded .
Take as the standard solutions and From the asymptotic expansions of the Bessel functions , or from } I. , we find that when is large and approximately .
Hence the series of Bessel functions , where the 's are arbitrary , save that the series has unit radius of convergence , converges if To interpret this condition geometrically , let and the condition reduces to . . . . .
( 15 ) .
S7 .
we are given any finite simply-connected plane area whose boundary either is an analytic curve or is made up of portions of a finite number of analytic curves , the interior can be conformally represented by the interior of a circle , any given point corresponding to the centre of the circle , and the equation of the boundary can be expressed in Cartesian co-ordinates in the form constant , where , and is a uniform analytic function of The following is a converse of Theorem II .
Theorem III.\mdash ; We can construct a series , , which converges if lie within the area bounded by , but not if lie outside the area .
Points lying on the boundary of the area are excluded . .
( 16 ) , where .
are arbitrary , save for the restriction that bas unit radius of convergence , and , are solutions of the linear differential equation of the second order ( 17 ) , where are real positive constants , independent of , are functions of regular within the curve , and the series in the bracket is arranged in descending powers of and is convergent when is large .
S8 .
Theorem IV.\mdash ; Let be a solution of the linear differential equation of the order .
( 18 ) , the coefficient of being a polynomial in of order * FORSYTH , 'Theory of Functions , ' 2nd edition , chapter INFINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC Then taken along a suitable path , satisfies the equation ( 18 ) , and thel are in general ?
such integrals , linearly independent .
For on integrating by parts , where denotes Let Substitute in the left side of ( 18 ) , and subtract the zero quantity and the expression becomes the of a perfect differen tial .
Hence satisfies the equation ( 18 ) , provided that . . . . .
( 19 ) has the same value at the beginning and the end of the path .
Let the roots of the equation supposed all rent , be denoted by The points , and VOL CCIV.\mdash ; A. 3 are the only possible singularities or branch-points of and its derivates , and sc and are the only possible singularities or branch-points of the expression ( 19 ) .
Hence , if we take a " " Doppelumlauf\ldquo ; round two of the points we have a contour satisfying the condition .
There are in general independent contours of this kind , which , together with , which is given by a simple contour round , form a complete set of of the equation ( 18 ) .
Some of the contours may become evanescent , either because the equation has equal roots , or because are not all singularities or branch-points of .
In that case the method does not yield a complete set of integrals .
In special cases a contour may reduce to a straight path mecting two singularities .
S9 .
The theorem has been proved for the special case of the hypergeometric equation in a posthumous paper of JACOBI .
* The result is of importance in the expansion of in a series of hypergeometric functions .
JACOBI proves further that if is a positive integer ( 20 ) , ffom which it follows after integration by parts that if the real parts of and are positive , .
( 21 ) .
S 10 .
Theorem V.\mdash ; Consider the equations and * ' Untersuchungen uber die Differentialgleichungen der hypergeometrischen Reihe 'Crelle , ' vol. 56 .
See also JACOBI'S ' Gesammelte Werke , ' vol. , pp. 184-202 .
INFINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC FUNCTIONS .
being any uniform analytic functions of without singularities in the finite part of the -plane , and two unequal constants .
The integral vanishes if is a suitably chosen path .
For the integral and vanishes if the expression in square brackets has the same value at the beginning and the end of the path .
A suitable path is , therefore , " " Doppelumlauf\ldquo ; round two of the roots of if these roots are not all equal ; the path may in special cases reduce to a straight line .
S11 .
The special case of the hypergeometric function was considered by JACOBI , who proved in the paper already quoted that if the real parts of and are positive , if ( 22 ) .
JACOBI proved further that , under the same conditions , ( 23 ) .
An important special case of ( 22 ) is given by , in which case , under the same conditions , , unless ( 24 ) .
We are now in a position to investigate the expansion of an arbitrary uniform analytic function in a series of hypergeometric functions .
SECTION II.\mdash ; HYPERGEOMETRIC S 12 .
The hypergeometric function is an analytic function of for all values of , with branch-points at , 1 , and If , one of the branches of the function can be represented by the series inf .
$ S 13 .
he formula . . .
( 25 ) may be easily verified .
* Let be a negative integer ; becomes a polynomial in. .
Write .
We deduce from ( 25 ) the result is equal to ( 26 ) .
Assume that the real parts of and are positive .
Multiply ( 26 ) through by and integrate from to .
Making use of ( 22 ) and ( 24 ) , we find after some reduction that , when the real parts of and are positive , .
* It be derived at once from formulae [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] , [ 3 ] , [ 6 ] , , given by GAUSS , " " Disquisitiones circa seriem infinitam ' lVerke , ' vol. III .
, pp. ence will be made to another memoir , ' Determine seriei nostrae aequationem differentialem secundi ordinis ' ' erke , ' vol. III .
, pp. 207-230 : the method of deduction , cf. AKER , ' Modern Anulysis , ' p. 228 .
INFINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC FUNCTIONS .
equal to ( 27 ) .
Since both sides of the equation represent analytic functions for all values of and , unless or is a negative integer , the restriction that and are positive may now be removed .
S 14 .
From Theorem I. , we find that when is very large , is approximately equal to ( 28 ) for all finite values of ; and is approximately equal to . . . . .
( 29 ) for all finite values of The second term on the right side of ( 27 ) , when is large , is approximately equal to ' and vanishes or becomes infinite when increases indefinitely , according ss that is , according as lies within or without an ellipse passing through , which has the points and 1 for foci .
We have the following result .
Theorem VI.\mdash ; If the point is in the interior of the elipse which passes through and has the points zero and unity for foci , can be expanded in the series of hypergeometric polynomials .
inf . . . . . . .
( 30 ) .
If is outside the ellipse , the series is divergent .
If is on the ellipse , and is not zero , the sum of terms of the series , when is large , oscillates in general between two finite limits .
Hence when is on the ellipse the expansion fails .
S15 .
Multiply both sides of the last equation by and integrate round a simple contour enclosing the points and but no singularity of Theorem VII.\mdash ; Let be any analytic function which is regular at all points in the interior of an ellipse , whose foci are at the points and The ellipse is so large that its circumference passes through one ( or more ) of the singularities of .
The curve is thus completely defined when is given .
Let and 7 be any quantities , real or complex , subject only to the conditions that the real parts of and are positive .
Then can be expanded in the infinite series of polynomials ( 31 ) , where .
( 32 ) .
IRWINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC FUNCTIONS .
The series is convergent if is inside and divergent if is outside C. If is on the series is in general oscillatory and the expansion fails .
Moreover , the expansion holds for unrestricted values of and , save that neither nor 7 may be a negative integer , if we write .
( 33 ) , a form equivalent to ( 32 ) when the real parts of and are positive ; being a simple closed contour contaimng the points and , but no singularity of .
S16 .
The following is a generalisation of ( 21 ) .
The integral is equal to .
( 34 ) , the equality holding for unrest.ricted values of , and , save that neither nor 7 may be a negative integer .
We deduce Theorevn VIII.\mdash ; Let be any function of which is regular at all points in the interior of an ellipse whose foci are at the points and .
The ellipse passes through one ( or more ) of the singularities of .
The curve is thus completely defined when is given .
Further , let , and be any constant quantities whatever , real or complex , save that neither nor is a negative integer .
Then can be expanded in the infinite series of hypergeometric functions ( 35 ) , where The series is convergent if is inside , and divergent if is outside ; if is on the series is in general oscillatory and the expansion fails .
S 17 .
Expansions in Legendre functions can be from expansions in hypergeometric functions by an appropriate transformation .
On account of the special interest of Legendre functions , we give a list of the formulae obtained .
*When ( -oz ) .
, and the equality still holds when , if be replaced by the function derived from it by an alytic continuation .
.\mdash ; Let be any function of which is regular at all points in the interior of an ellipse , whose foci are at the points and The ellipse is so large that its circumference passes through one ( or more ) of the of 40 The curve is thus completely defilled when is given .
Let and be any constant quantities whateyer , real or complex .
Then can be expanded in the infinite series of associated functions ( 36 ) , where .
The series is convergent if is inside and divergent if is outside C. If is on , the series is , in general , oscillatory and the expansion fails .
Theorem X.\mdash ; If the point is in the interior of the ellipse which passes through and has the points , for foci , and if is any constant quantity whatever , real or complex , can be expanded in the infinite series of LEGENDRE'S associated functions , . . . . . .
( 37 ) .
If is outside the ellipse , the series is divergent .
If is on the ellipse , the series is , in general , oscillatory and the expansion fails .
Theorem .\mdash ; Let be any function which is regular at all points in the interior of an ellipse , whose foci are at the points and The ellipse is so large that its circumference passes through one ( or more ) of the singularities of .
The curve is thus completely defined when is given .
Let be any constant quantity , such that the real part of between 1 and HOBSON , " " On a Type of Spherical Harmonics of unrestricted Degree , Order and Argnment ' Phil. Trans 1896 , Series , vol. 187 , p. .
The notation used by HOBSON , ding the definitions of the functions , will be adopted .
INFINITE SERIES OF ANALYTIC IONS .
Then can be expanded* in the infinite series of LEGENDRE'S associated functions . . .
( 38 ) , where The series is convergent if is inside , divergent if is outside , and , in general , oscillatory if is on , in which case the expansion fails .
* The position of this result in the historical development of the subject is noteworthy .
If is a real positive integer as well as vanishes so long as With the further restriction on that vanishes when , we find that , where This result is given by HEINE ( ' Kugelfunctionen , ' 2nd edition , p. 252 ) .
In his notation denotes .
If in the last equation , we have the well-known expansion , valid within the ellipse , in terms of the simple Legendre functions , where AKER , Modern Analysis , .
VOL. CCIV .
\mdash ; A. 3 8

