GENTLEMEN , IN addressing you for the first time from this Chair as the Presidenit whom you have honoured by your choice , my first duty must be the mournful one of expressing our deep regret at the loss we have sustained of the eminent person who preceded me .
To the highest professional distinction and the scientific attainments appertaining thereto , and to the indispensable moral qualities of truth , justice , and candour , Sir Benjamin Brodie united other qualifications also highly befitting the office in which you placed him:-remarkable firmness and decisiol , accompanied by kindliness and urbanity , and an unusually extensive acquaintance with the sentiments and opiniions of different classes of society , particularly of those who cultivate Literature and the Arts .
The failure of his health and of his sight deprived us latterly of that habitual attelndance at the Meetings of the Society , which he regarded as a duty and valued as a privilege .
Whilst we mouirn the loss which we have sustained by his decease , we have the gratification of knowing that he deemed the Presidency of the Royal Society the crowning distinction of his most honourable life , ' In adverting in the briefest terms which it is possible for me to employ to the choice which you have beeni pleased to make of a successor to this most eminent man , I can only say that you have honoured me far beyond any pretensions which I could have ventured to claim for myself , and that it will be my earnest endeavour to justify your choice by emulating the example of Sir Benjamin Brodie in attention to the business and devotion to the interests of the Society .
Since the last Anniversary our country and our Queen have had to mourn the loss of the illustrious Prince , the active and enilightened friend and promoter'of measures for advancing either the welfare and comfort of the great body of our people , or the interests of Science , Literature , and the Arts .
In this great general loss the cultivators of Science have their own particular share .
Qualified in an eminent degree to estimate the importance of Science as one of the elements of the strength and prosperity of a nation , his sound and extensive klnowledge enabled him to appreciate the value of researches in the various branlches of natural knowledge , and to give them on all suitable occasions the advantage of his countenance and support .
The Anniversary Meeting may be considered a fitting opportunity for apprising the Fellows generally of subjects out of the ordinary routine which may have occupied the attention of the Council in the past year .
Without too much trespass on your time , I may permit myself to notice very briefly one or two such subjects , in the interest of which I may hope the Society will warmly participate .
The first of these relates to a desire which has manifested itself in the Colony of Victoria to possess a telescope of much greater optical power than any previously used in the Southern Hemisphere , to be employed chiefly in observations of the southern nebulwe .
A convenient and suitable site has recently been appropriated for an observatory at Melbourne ; and a gralnt of ?
4500 has been voted by the Colonial L.egislature for the completion of the requisite buildings .
In July of the present year the Board of Visitors of the Melbourne Observatory presented the following address to Sir Henry Barkly , K.C.B. , Governor of Victoria:"The attention of the Board having been drawn to the following circumstances:-"-I .
That , as long silnce as 1849 , the facts brought to light by Lord Rosse 's Telescope were judged by the Royal Society of London and the British Association for the Advancement of Science to be so important as to justify them in making an urgent appeal to the British Government for the erection , at some suitable place in south latitude , of a telescope for the examination of the multiple stars aild the nebulae of the Southern Hemisphere , having greater optical power than that used by Sir John Herschel at the Cape of Good Hope ; which appeal there is little doubt would have been successful but for !
the Russian war and the consequent expelnditure ; II .
That , since that time , Lord Rosse reports that he has discovered systematic changes in some of the most important northern nebulue ; " III .
That the interest and scientific importance of the solution of the problem of their physical structure , as well as the probability of its accomplishment , are thus greatly increased ; " IV .
That some of the most important nebulae , and those presenting the greatest variety of physical features in close proximity , can be observed only in places having a considerable southern latitude ; " I V. That the geographical position and clear atmosphere of Melbourne render it peculiarly suitable for this work , and that the arrangements already made for the establishment of an Astronomical Observatory on a permanent footing offer great facilities for carrying it on ; " VI .
That , independently of the especial object to which such telescope would be applied , an Astronomical Observatory cannot be considered complete without an equatorially-mounted telescope of large optical powers : " I It was Resolved , c1st .
That , in the opinion of the Board , the establishment of such a telescope in Melbourne would materially promote the advancement of science .
" 2nd .
That , before applying to the Colonial Government for any pecuniary grant in aid of this object , Eis Excellency the Governor be requested to obtain , through the Secretary of State for the Colonies , an expression of opinion from scientific men in England as to the importance of the results to be expected from it ; the most suitable construction of telescope for the purpose , both as to the optical part and the mounting ; its probable cost , and the time requisite for its completion .
" In October the President and Council received from the Duke of Newcastle , Her Majesty 's principal Secretary of State for the Colonies , a communication in which their attention is requested to the copy of a despatch from Sir Henry Barkly , enclosing the address of the Board of Visitors which has just been read , and soliciting the cooperation of the Royal Society by a report on the several points on which an opinion is desired .
The Duke further expressed his confidence in the readiness of the Royal Society to do whatever may be in their power for the encouragement of science in the Colony of Victoria .
No time was lost in bringing this communication before the Council , who requested the President and Officers to prepare the draft of a reply , to be approved at a subsequent meeting .
Upon the general question , viz. the importance of the results to be obtained by such a telescope at Melbourne in latitude 38 ?
S. , and on the honour which the establishment and maintenance of the proposed observatory would reflect on the Colony of Victoria , the reply might well have been immediate ; but there are other points on which the opinion of the Royal Society is requested , viz. " the most suitable construction of telescope for the purpose , both as to the optical part and the mounting , its probable cost , and the time requisite for its completion , " for replies to which more time and consultation are requisite .
It happens fortunately that all these points were well discussed in the correspondence which passed between the members of the Committee of the Royal Society appointed in 1852 to consider the steps most desirable to be taken towards the establishment of a telescope of very great optical power for the observation of Nebulse in the southern hemisphere .
This correspondence was printed , and some copies of it yet remain ; but sinice that epochs a great step in advance has been made , by the construction by Mr. Lassell , at his own expense , of a 4-feet reflector , exceeding in dimension the telescope contemplated in 1852 , by its conveyance from Liverpool to Malta , and by its employment for a twelvemonth past at Malta under the personal superintendence of Mr. Lassell himself .
It is possible that the opinions previously formed may be in some respects modified by the additional experience which has thus been acquired ; the President and Officers have therefore placed themselves in communication with Mr. Lassell , and with other gentlemen who took the most active part in the previous corresponidence , with a view of conveying in their reply the best information which it is in their power to procnire ; and they hope that they may be able to submit the draft of the reply to the new Council at its first meeting .
I cannot close this brief notice without congratulating the Society on the prospect thus opened of accomplishing an object of such manifest importance as to have induced the Royal Society and the British Association to solicit jointly the aid of Her Majesty 's Government in effecting it ; -and however great their disappointment may have been at the refusal which they received on that occasion , they will , if the present hopes are realized , have no reason to regret that it has been left to the Colony of Victoria to carry into execution an undertaking which may well be expected to hold a high place in the annals of science in all future time ; and thus to set a noble example to the other Colonies of the British Crown .
With such extensive dominion , embracing almost every variety of natural circumstance , it is only by the active cooperation of her colonies , according to the varying measure of their ability , that our country can hope to fulfil her scientific responsibilities .
Another subject on which inlformation may be interesting to the Fellows , is that of the progress and approaching completion of the Manuscript Catalogue of the Titles of Scientific Memoirs contained in the Scientific Periodicals in all languages from the commencement of the present century to the year 1860 .
The formation of this Catalogue was commenced under the sanction of the Council in 1858 , and has proceeded uninterruptedly to the present time .
The titles are written in quadruplicate , and are designed toform-l st , a Serial Index ; 2nd , an Index arranged alphabetically according to Authors ' names ; and 3rd , a Classified Index , classified according to subjects in all branches of science ; the 4th set of titles remaining available for purposes not yet decided on .
The first of these , i. e. the Serial Index , already forms sixty-two MS .
volumes , and inieludes the most important series of Transactions and Journals ; the titles in each series being arranged in chronological order .
These volumes have ben placed in the Library , where they are now available for reference ; and fresh volumes are added from time to time as they are completed .
The preparation of the second , or Alphabetical Index , is considerably advanced .
For the third , or Classified Index , the greater part of the titles are prepared , but the arrangement of the classification has not yet been finally decided upon .
the number of Titles at present entered in the Catalogue amounts to about 150,000 ; and there yet remain to be added from our own library about 10,000 more ; besides such as may be added from other sources .
As was anticipated , numerous deficiencies in this department of our Library were discovered in the course of the work .
The Library Committee has taken measures to have these made good .
In some instances imperfect series have been completed , and exchanges for new series effected , on the application of the Foreign Secretary to the several Societies by whom they are published ; considerable purchases have also been made ; and by all these means the Library has been largely increased in a department of essential importance to the interests of all the sciences .
The expense incurred in preparing the Catalogue thus far has amounted to C980 .
When the Manuscripts of the three Indexes , Serial , Alphabetical , and Classified , are completed , it is proposed to place them in the Library for the use of the Fellows generally .
In the course of the present Session it will be proper to consider the question of extending the sphere of their utility more widely by printing .
It is scarcely possible to estimate too highly the advantage of rendering such indexes easily and generally accessible to persons engaged in scientific pursuits .
I will now proceed with your permission to the duty especially appropriate to the day , that of announcino the decision of the Council in awarding four Medals in the present year , and of stating the grounds on which those awards have been made .
The Council have awarded the Copley Medal to Thomas Graham , Esq. , Master of the Mint , F.R.S. , for three Memoirs on the Diffusion of Liquids , published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1850 and 1851 ; for a Memoir on Osmotic Force in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1854 ; and particularly for a paper on Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis , including a distinction of Compounds into Colloids and Crystalloids , published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1861 .
It is well known that when a bladder nearly full of alcohol is immersed in a vessel of water , the water will pass through the bladder and become mixed with the alcohol , though little or none of the alcohol will pass out to become mixed with the water .
This result constitutes a particular case of the phenomena described by Dutrochet under the terms Endosmosis and Exosmosis .
Ever since the attention of men of science was called to these phenomena by the French philosopher , they have attracted a large share of attention and many chemists and physiologists have at different times endeavoured to define the laws that regulate these actions , which were regarded by many as proceeding from a force that had not previously been recognized .
It was not , however , till Mr. Graham adopted the simple expedient of placing the two liquids under experiment in contact with each other without the intervention of any septum , that a distinct idea of the steps of the operation was obtained .
Mr. Graham proved that these movements were due partly to the action of the liquids on each other , and partly to their action on the septum .
In three papers published in the 'Philosophical Tranrsactions ' for 1850 and 1851 , he traced the laws of " 6Liquid Diffusion , " and was thus enabled to show that the process in liquids is regulated by principles closely analogous to those which in earlier researches he had demonstrated to prevail in the diffusion of gases .
In these experiments a number of small jars of about 4 oz. capacity were prepared with necks ground to a uniform aperture of 14inch in diameter .
Into these jars the trial solutions were poured : each jar was then closed by a glass plate , and placed in a cylindrical vessel containing about 20 oz. of distilled water ; the mouth being submerged at least one inch below the level of the water .
The glass plate was then cautiously removed .
Each solution having been thus treated , the jars were left for several days undisturbed at a steady temperature .
After a sufficient length of time the mouth of each jar was again closed with a plate of glass , and the jars were withdrawn .
The water contained in the outer vessel was them in each case evaporated , and the salt that had passed into it determined by weight .
Saline substances were thus found to be divisible into certain groups of bodies of equal diffusibility ; the rates of diffusion of the different groups being connected by simple numerical relations .
Amongst other important points determined , it was found that if two substances which do not combine chemically and which possess different rates of diffusibility , be mixed , and be then placed in a diffusion cell , they may be partially separated by the process of diffusion ; and insome cases even chemical decomposition maybe effected by this means .
Thus if ordinary potash alum be subjected to diffusion , the sulphate of potash will diffuse out rapidly , and leave the sulphate of alumina in large proportion .
In 1854 Mr. Graham communicated to the Royal Society a paper on Osmotic Force , in which he examined the influence of a septum upon the process of diffusion ; investigating particularly the class of phenomena specially studied by Dutrochet .
By a simple modification of the apparatus employed , he was enabled to make his experiments quantitative , and thus to give them numerical precision .
He found that the nature of the solution and its chemical operation on the material of the septum were very important .
Whert animal membranes were employed , dilute alkaline solutions absorbed water rapidly , while weak acid solutions gave out water instead of absorbing it ; neutral salts having little effect in promoting these osmotic movements .
But these investigations , important as they are , constitute but the introduction to the inquiry published in 1861 , upon the application of Liquid Diffusion to Analysis .
In this remarkable memoir Mr. Graham has shown that chemical compounds generally may be subdivided into two great classes , which are characterized by their relation to the process of liquid diffusion : one of these classes he terms Crystalloid8 , and the other Colloid8 as beinog typified by animal gelatine .
The crystalloids form a solution generally free from viscosity , and always sapid .
They are especially endowed with a tendency to diffusion through a membranous septum .
The colloids , on the contrary , such as gum , starch , dextrine , caramel , tannin , gelatine , and albumen , are characterized by a remarkable sluggishness , and indisposition to diffusion or crystallization .
When pure , they are nearly tasteless .
Colloid bodies do not necessarily belong to the organic kingdom , though they are frequently met with among its constituents ; and owing to their tendency to undergo slow but perpetual molecular change , together with their peculiar relations to water , they seem to be especially suited to form the plastic materials required for building up the tissues of the living organism .
Although the two classes are widely separated in their properties , a complete parallelism appears to hold between them .
Their existence in nature seems to call for a corresponding division of Chemistry into a Crystalloid and aColloid department .
In many cases the same body may be obtained either in the crystalloid or in the colloid modification .
The chemistry of the two classes is distinct , and the reactions of the same body are different according as it is in the crystalloid or the colloid form .
Chemists have been enabled to apprehend properly a number of anomalous facts and discrepancies in the reactions of various substances which were supposed to be identical uintil Mr. Graham had called attention to this important molecular difference in their structure .
He has shown that the crystalloid is the static , as the colloid is the dynamic condition of a body : the usual tendency of the colloid is a gradual approach towards the crystalloid form .
The method by which Mr. Graham has obtained these important results is characterized by that simplicity which so eminently distinguishes the mode in which he has proceeded during the whole of this lengthened and important inquiry .
The memoir contains a description of the process , which he names Dialysis , for separating a crystalloid from a colloid ; and it is scarcely necessary to insist upon the practical importance which this method possesses .
In the examination of organic mixtures for poisons which , like the vegetable bases , are crystallizable , it will afford most valuable aid , as it separates the poison without adding anything except a little pure water .
Many organic colloids , such as gum , albumen , or caramel , may by its means be readily freed from saline impurities , which can scarcely be removed by any other known means .
Its application to the recondite processes of secretion , and to many of the chemical changes taking place in the living organism , need not be inisisted on .
The door thus opened to further inquiry will no doubt be eagerly entered by the physiological chemist , who can hardly fail of obtaining new insight into the obscure but deeply important operations of the nutrition , reparation , and removal of tissue .
MR. GRAHAM , In receiving this Medal , the highest honour which it is in the power of the Royal Society to award , you will accept it as a testimony of the very high value which the Society attaches to your researches .
It is our earnest hope that your health will be such as to permit you , in addition to your important public duties , to continue your most valuable scientific labours .
The Council have awarded the Rumford Medal to Professor Kirchhoff , of I-Ieidelberg , for his researches on the Fixed Lines of the Solar Spectrum , and on the Inversion of the Bright Lines in the Spectra of Artificial Light .
The existence of definite rays in the light of flames coloured by various salts has long been known , and attracted the attention of Sir John HIerschel as long ago as 1822 ; and in papers published a few years later , Mr. Fox Talbot called attention to the value and delicacy of this character in qualitative chemical analysis ; showing , for example , how the red produced by lithia , and that produced by strontia , might thus be instantly distinguished by the difference in the system of bright lines seen in their respective spectra .
He remarked at the same time what an exceedingly minute quantity of a metallic substance could thus be detected in a flame .
But chemists generally were not aware of the precious means of qualitative analysis thus lying at their command ; and , in fact , the elaboration of this mode of qualitative chemical analysis required a combination of chemical and physical observations for which the same individual was seldom properly qualified and equipped .
It was necessary , on the one hand , to prepare a variety of substances in the highest state of chemical purity , and , on the other , to take a number of careful angular measures of the positions of bright lines in the spectra of various flames .
This labour has now been in great measure accomplished by the joint exertions of Professors Kirchhoff and Bunsen , to whom indeed is due the merit of having made this mode of chemical research available to the scientific world , and of having caused spectroscopes to be now in the hands of chemists generally , by whom they are employed with the greatest advantage in the qualitative examination of inorganic substances .
Already the method has led to the discovery of three new elements , Cmsiunm and Rubidium in the hands of Professor Bunsen , Thallium in those of our own countryman , Mr. Crookes .
In the course of these researches Professor Kirchboff made the remarkable discovery that flames which of themselves copiously emit rays of definite refrangibility , and consequently exhibit bright lines in their spectra , act at the same time as absorbing media of such a character as to stop rays of those precise degrees of refranigibility , when light containing rays of all kinds is transmitted through them .
Accordingly when a bright source of light , which of itself gives a continuous spectrum , is viewed through such a flame , and the mixed light , consisting partly of the light emitted by the flame , and partly of the light transmitted through it , is analysed by a prism , instead of a bright line on a dark ground , there is seen a dark line on a bright ground , occupying exactly the same place .
In order , however , that this inversion should be observed , it was found to be essential that the temperature of the bright source should exceed that of the fame ; otherwise , in comparing the illumination of the place of the line in the spectrum with that of its neighbourhood , the loss by absorption would not overbalance the gain by emission .
These results Professor Kirchhoff showed to be a necessary consequence of Prevost 's theory of exchanges , taken in an extended sense ; so that , from the appearance of a bright line in the spectrum of an incandescent vapour ( for it is only in the state of vapour that incandescent matter emits rays of definite refranigibility ) , it might be inferred that the chemical substance in the vapouir to which the bright line was known to be due , would also in the state of vapour , at the same temperature , act as an absorbing medium capable of exhibiting a corresponding dark line in the spectrum of light transmitted through it , -an effect which the vapour would still continue to exhibit at a lower temperature , unless the mode of absorption were changed by so reducing the temperature .
This doctrine finds a striking application in the explanation which it affords of the existence of dark lines in the solar spectrum .
The exact coincidence of the double line D of Fraunhofer with a corresponding bright line seen in many flames was pointed out by Fraunhofer himself ; and a similar coincidence was observed by Sir David Brewster between a system of bright lines shown by deflagrating nitre , and a corresponding group of dark lines in the solar spectrurm .
The theory of Professor Kirchhoff leads us to expect such coincidences beforehand , and from the presence or absence in the solar spectrum of dark lines answering to the bright lines observed in a flame , and referable to a known element , to infer with a high degree of probability the presence or absence , in a state of vapour , of that element in the atmosphere of the sun .
Thus the presence of the elements sodium , potassium , iron , and some others in the sun 's atmosphere has been rendered in the highest degree probable .
And the same reasoning that applies to the sun applies also to the fixed stars , which are known to exhibit in their spectra fixed lines of their own , while many of their lines are identical with those of the sun ; so that the enormous distance of these bodies does not prevent us from drawing some conclusions as to their chemical constitution .
It is not , however , to be expected that all the fixed lines of the solar spectrum shouLld thus be traced home to particular elements .
It is well known that when the sun is near the horizon dark lines make their appearance in the spectrum which are not seen when the sun is high , and which plainly owe their origin to absorption by the earth 's atmosphere ; though what the particular compounds are which absorb light in this manner is still unknown .
It is very possible that gases , having a similar property of absorbing definite rays , may exist in the outer portions of the solar atmosphere , which , at the very high temperature necessary for incandescence , would either be decomposed , or would have their mode of absorption so changed that there would no longer be a perfect correspondence between the bright lines which might be exhibited by the light emitted at a high temperature , and the dark lines produced by absorption at a low temperature .
In mentioning these striking results due to Professor Kirchhoff , it seems right to refer to some earlier researches bearing closely on the subject .
In 1848 M. Foucault made the remarkable discovery that the voltaic arc was at the same time a source of light , giving out the double bright line D , and a medium capable of absorbing light of that precise refrangibility ; but he did not extend the result to ordinary flames , nor connect the absorption and emission by the theory of exchanges ; and indeed his observation , which was only published .
in ' l'Institut , ' seems to have attracted little attention , and was not known to Professor Kirchhoff when he discovered the general inversion of bright lines .
In two remarkable papers published in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh , ' Mr. Balfour Stewart has made the requisite extension of Prevost 's theory in the case of radiant heat , deducing important consequences which he has verified by experiment .
The transition was natural from radiant heat to light , and was made by Mr. Stewart himself .
The paper containing this extension of the theory , and the experiments by which he had verified it , was published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for March 15 , 1860 , and accordingly only a very short time after Professor Kirchhoff announced to the Berlin Academy his discovery of inversion .
Mr. Stewart , however , did not occupy himself with the emission of rays of definite refrangibility , his experiments having been chiefly made on heated coloured glasses .
The great number of the dark lines in the solar spectrum renders necessary a very exact determination of the places of dark and bright lines , lest an accidental juxtaposition should be mistaken for coincidence .
To prosecute his researches with success , Professor Kirchhoff founid it necessary to prepare a map of the solar spectrum combining largeness of scale with exactness to an extent not to be found in any published map ; and to this laborious undertaking he vigorously applied himself .
The result may be judged of by the admirable map of a portion of the spectrum published in the ' Transactions of the Berlin Academy ; ' but , unfortunately , the very zeal with which Professor Kirchhoff prosecuted his observations threw an obstacle in the way of his progress .
The constant strain brought on a weakness of the eyes , which obliged him to suspend his observations for a time .
It is understood , however , that the work is progressing , as other observers are engaged in taking the observations which he himself could not prudently continue .
PROFESSOR MILLER , In delivering to your care as our Foreign Secretary this Medal , to be transmitted to Professor Kirchhoff , we will ask you to accompany this testimony of our high esteem by the expression of our sympathy in the cause which has temporarily interrupted the excessive devotion with which he has pursued his valuable researches , and of our hope that he will not permit himself to be tempted personally to resume his observations until his eyes shall have perfectly recovered .
The Council have awarded a Royal Medal to the Rev. Dr. Thomas Romney Robinson , F.R.S. , of Armagh , for the Armagh Catalogue of 5345 Stars , deduiced from observations made at the Armagh Observatory , from the year 1828 up to 1854 ; for his papers on the Construction of Astronomical Instruments , in the ' Memoirs of the Astronomical Society ; ' and his paper on Electro-magnets , in the 'Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy .
' In various papers published in the ' Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy , ' and in the ' Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society , ' Dr. Robinson long since showed that he had profoundly studied the use as well as the mechanical construction of astronomical instruments , the various errors to which they are liable , and the best methods of discovering and eliminating them ; and he proved himself to be fertile in ingenious suggestions for the improvement of instruments .
It is not , however , necessary to dwell further on these papers , as the Medal is more especially awarded for the Armagh Catalogue of the places of 5345 Stars , deduced from observations made at the Armagh Observatory between 1828 and 1854 .
This work has recently been published on the recommendation of the Royal Society by the aid of the annual Government Grant .
Most of the stars have been observed five times , both in Right Ascension and North Polar Distance , with the Transit Instrument and Mural Circle respectively .
No one who has not gone through some work of the same kind can imagine the vast amount of labour which the reduction of such a mass of observations requires .
The individual results from each observation are given , so that we can form an accurate idea of the precisioni finally attained .
Dr. Robinson has spared no pains to study the errors of all kinds of the individual instruments employed , either to correct them or to make the due allowance for them .
Thus he examines the divisions of the mural circle by help of twelve microscopes , though only four are used in taking the actual observations .
The effect of the variation of atmospheric density on the rate of the transit clock is compensated by a suitably adjusted barometer forming part of the pendulum .
The true cylindricity of the pivots , both of the transit and the mural circle , is ensured by the method , introduced by him , of using a diamond point in the turning .
The materials which have been accumulated so laboriously and so skilfully in this catalogue are of the highest value .
The stars observed are almost enltirely those observed by Bradley , and the comparison of the observed places gives a great addition to our knowledge of the proper motions of the fixed stars , and thus forms an enlarged basis for our deductions respecting the proper motion of our system in space .
Dr. Robinson gives a separate catalogue of the proper motions which he considers to be established by the comparison above mentioned .
The duties of the observatory and the preparation of the abovementioned catalogue have not prevented Dr. Robinson from devoting a large amouat of attenition to physical research ; as will be seen from his papers on the Lifting Power of an Electro-magnet , published in the ' Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy , ' which contain the results of careful quantitative experiments extending , as far as other avocations permitted , over a period of about ten years ; those on the curious subject of the Stratification of the Electric Discharge , published in the Proceedings ' of the same Academy ; and more recently an elaborate paper " On Spectra of Electric Light , as modified by the Nature of the Electrodes and the Media of Discharge , " presented to the Royal Society on the 19th of last June , and since ordered to be printed in the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' This last paper contains the results of carefiul measures of the angular position of the bright lines observed in no less than 173 spectra .
The results would seem to indicate that in this branch of physics , which has recently excited a great deal of attention , overhasty generalizations have in some cases been made ; btut however that may be , the data collected in this paper can hardly fail to be of high importance in the event of any theory being propounded to account for the positions and variations of brightness of the lines .
PROFESSOR STOKES , In presenting you with this Medal to be transmitted to Dr. Robinson , I may express the regret of the Royal Society that he should have been prevented by indisposition from attending personally to receive our congratulations on the accomplishment of the great work on which he has expended so vast an amount of labour ; and our assurance of the warm welcome with which the Society will greet his future contributions , whether on astronomical or physical subjects .
The Council have awarded one of the Royal Medals to Dr. Alexander William Williamson , Professor of Chemistry and of Practical Chemistry in University College , London , for his researches on the Compound Ethers , and his subsequent communications in Organic Chemistry .
One of the most important discussions entered upon by chemists in the last few years has been the true molecular arrangement of ordinary vinic alcohol and ether .
The interest shown in the subject , both at homne and abroad , may be ascribed to the opinion generally prevailing amongst chemists , that upon the correct appreciation of the phenomiena involved in the process of etherification must depend the successful unlocking of many secrets connected with organic chem.istry .
Gav-Lussac and the French school regarded ether as olefialnt gas combined with one molecule of water , and alcohol as olefiant gas combined with two molecules of water .
Berzelius thought ether and alcohol were oxides of different hydrocarbons ; and , seeing the difficulty of explaining the process of etherification by the then current hypothesis , supposed that a peculiar force was exerted , to which was given the niame of Catalysis .
Lastly , the German school , with Liebig at their head , regarded ether as the oxide of the unisolated radical ethyl , and alcohol as its hydrated oxide .
Dr. Williamson here took up the question , and showed that when sulphuric acid and alcohol are brought together , a change of place is effected between the ethyl of the sulphovinic acid produced and an atom of hydrogen of the alcohol , and consequenitly that the ether which results from the action is compounded of a double molecule of ethyl and a single molecule of oxygen .
These views were put beyond the range of mere hypothesis by a hap .
pily conceived series of experiments , which resulted in the discovery of the important substances known as the " compound " or " mixed ethers .
" Dr. Williamson showed that these bodies are formed upon the type of water , the two hydrogen atoms of which are capable of replacement by different hydrocarbon radicals .
These considerations were embodied in two papers which have had a marked influence upon the development of organic chemistry ; an early fruit of which was the discovery by Gerhardt of the organic anhydrous acids , which may be regarded as the application of Dr. Williamson 's processes to negative instead of positive radicals .
A large field of iniquiry having been thus opened , a suggestive paper on the Constitution of Salts and Acids speedily followed , in which Dr. Williamson showed that acetic acid is formed by the substitution of one atom of oxygen for two atoms of hydrogen in alcohol .
Acetic acid , thus regarded , elneloses the new radical othyl or acetyl .
The question of types and the doctrine of substitution are further elaborated in six memoirs read before the Royal Society in 1854 .
In these researches are exemplified the rarely associated powers of discovering new facts , and of evolving from them truths of a higher order .
They also show that the scienitific importance of substances must not be estimated by the bare knowledge gained from their ultimate analysis , but that valuable generalizations may follow from the establishment of correct ideas of their molecular grouping ; generalizations , indeed , which effect a new insight into nature , and to a great extent anticipate a rich field of subsequent research .
PROFESSOR WILLIAMSON , In presenting you with this Medal , testifying the value which the Royal Society attaches to the researches on which you have been engaged , I would venture to express on their behalf the hope that , in the many years which we trust are yet before you , science may continue to profit , and may profit largely , by your exertions in researches for which you have shown yourself to be so highly qualified .
On the motion of Sir R. Murchison , seconded by Mr. Tite , it was resolved:"That the thanks of the Society be returned to the President for his Address , and that he be requested to allow it to be printed .
" The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers having been read , and Dr. Anderson and Major-General Sir Andrew Scott Waugh having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were collected .
The following Gentlemen were declared to be duly elected as Council and Officers for tne ensuing year : President.--Major-General Edward Sabine , R.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.-William Allen Miller , M.D. , LL. D. Secretaries.{Wrilliam Sharpey , M.D. , LL. D. George Gabriel Stokes , Esq. , M.A. , D.C.L. Foreign .
, Secretary.-William Hallows Miller , Esq. , M.A. Other Members of the Councit.-Benjamin Guy Babington , M.D. ; George Bowdler Buckton , Esq. ; William Benjamin Carpenter , M.D. ; Warren De La Rue , Esq. , Ph. D. ; Sir Philip de M. Grey Egerton , Bart. ; Captain Douglas Galton , R.E. ; Robert Godwin-Austen , Esq. ; Joseph Henry Green , D.C.L. ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , M.D. ; John Lubbock , Esq. ; Prof. James Clerk Maxwell , M.A. ; Prof. Richard Owen , D.C.L. , LL. D. ; Prof. Henry J. Stephen Smith , M.A. ; Prof. James Joseph Sylvester , M.A. ; Prof. Charles Wheatstone , D.C.L. ; Rev. Robert Willis , M.A. The thanks of the Society were voted to the Scrutators .
[ Dec. 1 , C ) la Q0 z C ) C ( = OC ) ?
-.q VCO 'Io CO000C tz In ) C to ( o 0 CZ C tr--q r---i r--q oo LtM LtU , P..4 C ) cr .
) lf 00 cl oC t1 , ttjq lc r--l r--4 r--q r-.4 " r--q r--l ?
rc Cq t= oc cq " 14 14- .
) lf 14 " 14 ce cq cq 00 " 14 00 ( = r-q.o m ?
--q r---i C ) 00 ... ... ... ... Ci 0 ... ... ... ... .
tM ... ... ... ... cr0 O- ) bp 1Z .
'IO ld- , ) 4-ml P4 PA Id t0 C ) Q.0 P-4 ... ... PP4 bp 0 E-i m -Q , bo C ) -4bD tD i ) P-4 cd a ) P-4 ct P r4 'd -W 4S P. cg m tD P-4 tD P-I 4t 4U ) m bjc , P , U ) ILq ci cd tD E7 Pq Pq P- , pq EP .
, 447 P-i Go P P4 pq C ) co Q0.'A tIt 00 C C ) nAC C &gt; cr '-f -q 00 ( :+I 00 CA cy ' lf 00 tc ' go ( -'O U- .
) r--q 00 Co zq bP 't ct tD &lt; J ) 4 a4 CID IZI -11 c'-S t.4 C5 P ' O Q+j C ) -4.1 r. ) CZ ) 4 lll Ca pq O z3 P44 z P-i 00 Ct P-i - , d Z-51 E p4 o pq tz 4CM O 0 , - , , a ) -4 0 ci o4 'fl Q. ) 4 cd Q -Cl , CO P4 PAA C. ) E-1 HP Pr 0 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r--l 9r t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O tO t-_ lc ; 0-0 c *t , 0 Cl Xo Go tq _q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C , tow t1~ C CS)Xi ?
O - , t - , r-X* C. " ( to **** 49 *c q lf* C ) f* *+ , i r-q(N r-l 9 ; ' -50 g~~~~~~~~C CI ^~ H~* S..w Zf q**z 0 , 4 .
, .
___ ... _ ... .
, , t tOtOOOOO c : 0XO ntO cD~~~~~0 t,4 c ?
r~~~~m C ) OC O+w o o : t

