576 On the Spectrum of the Flame , of Hydrogen .
[ June 17 , error due to the cause pointed out by the great French chemist , its influence is in the present case inappreciable by existing means of measurement , and no correction of the numbers obtained for the atomic weight in question can be applied which shall have any real meaning .
The other series ( 1 and 2 ) of experiments made to determine this atomic weight do not involve the question of gaseous occlusion , at any rate in the same form , as in them the metal itself was not used , b ut certain of its compounds only .
XIV .
On the Spectrum of the Flame of Hydrogen .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 16 , 1880 .
Messrs. Liveing and Dewar state , in a paper read before the Royal Society on June 10 ( antep .
494 ) , that they have obtained a photograph of the ultra-violet part of the spectrum of coal gas burning in oxygen , and in a note dated June 8 they add that they have reason to believe that this remarkable spectrum is not due to any carbon compound but to water .
Under these circumstances I think that it is desirable that I should give an account of some experiments which I made on this subject some months since without waiting until the investigation is more complete .
On December 27,1879,1 took a photograph of the flame of hydrogen burning in air .
As is well known , the flame of hydrogen possesses but little luminosity , and shows no lines or bands in the visible part of the spectrum , except that due to sodium as an impurity .
Professor Stokes , in his paper " On the Change of Refrangibility of Light , " * had stated that " the flame of hydrogen produces a very strong effect .
The invisible rays in which it so much abounds , taken as a whole , appear to be even more refrangible than those which come from the flame of a spirit lamp .
" I was not , however , prepared for the strong group of lines in the ultra-violet which , after an exposure of one minute and a half , came out upon the plate .
Two or three weeks later , about the middle of January , 1880 , I showed this spectrum to Professor Stokes , and we considered it probable that this remarkable group was the spectrum of water .
Professor Stokes permits me to mention that , in a letter addressed to me on January 30 , he speaks of " this novel and interesting result , " and makes some suggestions as to the disputed question of the carbon spectrum .
* " Phil. Trans. , " 1852 , p. 539 .
Dr. W. Huggins .
[ June 17 , I have since that date taken a large number of photographs of the spectra of different [ flames , in the hope of being able to present the results to the Royal Society , when the research was more complete .
I think now that it is desirable that I should describe the spectrum of the flame of hydrogen , but I shall reserve for the present the experiments which relate tb the presence of carbon and its compounds .
The spectrum of the flame of hydrogen burning in air is represented in the diagram , Spectrum No. 1 .
It consists of a group of lines which terminates at the more refrangible limit m a pair of strong lines X 3062 and X 3068 .
i At a short distance , in the less refrangible direction , what may perhaps be regarded as the group proper , commences with a strong line , X 3090 .
Between the strong line X 3068 and the line X 3090 there is a line less bright , X 3080 .
Less refrangible than the line X 3090 are finer lines at about equal distances .
The lines are then fine and near each other , and appear to be arranged in very close pairs .
There is a pair of fine , but very distinct lines , X 3171 and X 3167 .
In this photograph the group can be traced to about X 3290 .
This group constitutes the whole spectrum , which is due probably to the vapour of water .
I then introduced oxygen into the flame , leaving a small excess of hydrogen .
A spectrum in all respects similar came out upon the plate .
I repeated the experiment , taking both spectra on the same plate .
Through one-half of the slit the spectrum of the oxyhydrogen flame was taken .
This flame was about 7 inches long , and the spectrum taken of a part of the flame 2 inches from the jet .
The oxygen was then turned off , and the quantity of hydrogen allowed to remain unaltered .
A second spectrum with an exposure of the same duration was then taken through the second half of the slit .
On the plate the two spectra are in every respect similar , and have so exactly the same intensity , that they appear as one broad spectrum .
In all these experiments a platinum jet which had been carefully cleaned was used .
\ In these experiments the two gases met within the blowpipe and issued in a mixed state .
The jet was removed , and a flame of hydrogen was surrounded with oxygen .
The spectrum , No. 2 in the diagram , shows some additional lines .
In this case the jet was brass , and in this or some other way impurities may have been introduced ; and I should , at present , incline to the view that the additional lines about X 3429 and X 3473 , and the groups more refrangible than X 3062 , do not belong to the water spectrum , but to impurities .
Coal-gas was substituted for hydrogen in the oxyhydrogen blowpipe , and oxygen admitted in as large a proportion as possible .
The inner blue flame rising about 2 inches above the jet showed in the visible part of the spectrum the usual " five-fingered spectrum .
" The 1880 .
] On the Spectrum of the Flame of Hydrogen .
light from this part of the flame was projected upon the slit .
The pectrum , No. 3 in the diagram , contains the water group already Inscribed , and in addition a very strong line close to G , and two lines , X 3872 and X 3890 ; this latter line is seen to be the more refrangible limit of a group of fine lines shading off towards K. The ultra-violet group when carefully compared with the group in the spectrum of pure hydrogen , shows several small differences .
I am inclined to believe that there is the superposition of a second fainter group .
There is strong evidence of this in some spectra of hydrogen taken under other conditions .
There is also a broad band less refrangible than the strong line at G , and the light extends from this line on its more refrangible side .
A double Bunsen burner ( Fletcher 's form ) with a strong blast of nir was then fitted up .
The spectrum was taken of the intense blue flame .
It resembles the one last described .
All the distinctive features are intensified , and a continuous spectrum and groupings of very fine lines fill up all the intervals between the groups already .described , so that there is an unbroken strong spectrum throughout the whole region which falls upon the plate .
A spirit lamp was arranged before the slit .
The spectrum is essentially the same as No. 3 , but as it is less intense only the strongest lines are seen .
The water group , the strong line at G , and the pair of lines rather more refrangible than lv , are seen .
Probably with a longer exposure the finer lines would also show themselves .
The distinctive features of spectrum No. 3 appear to be connected with the presence of carbon .
Table of Wave-lengths of the Principal Lines of the Spectrum of Water .
No. 1 .
3122-5 3152-5 3207-5 3252-5 2 s VOL. XXX .
Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ June 17r Wave-lengths of other Lines in Spectrum 2869-5 2872-5 2907-5 2917-5 2922-5 2925-5 2935-5 2970-5 2975-5 3019-5 No. 2 .
3429-5- Wave-lengths of other Lines in Spectrum .
No. 3 .
3872 ' ' 3890 4310 XV .
" On the Spectrum of Water .
" By G. D. Liyeing , M.A.r F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received June 17 , 1880 .
In our last communication to the Society , " On the Spectrum of the Compounds of Carbon with Hydrogen and Nitrogen , No. II , " we noticed that a remarkable series of lines , extending over the region between the lines S and R of the s'olar spectrum , were developed m the flame of coal-gas burning in oxygen .
The arrangement of lines and bands , of which this spectrum consists , is shown m the accompanying diagram , * fig. 1 .
It begins at the more refrangible end with two Fio .
1 .
strong bands with wave-lengths about 3062 , 3068 , and extends up to ahrutthe wave-length 3210 .
It is well developed in the fiame o !
hydro- .
_ fV\#187 ; A oATifvral character of the spectrum , but Doux un ------ the lee .
refrangible half are 1mo.t hx\gt ; etrongl , rendered .

