1890 .
] Host and Parasite in certain Diseases Plants .
213 February 27 , 1890 .
Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES , Bart. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Croonian Lecture was delivered as follows:\#151 ; Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Relations between Host and Parasite in certain Epidemic Diseases of Plants .
" By H. Marshall Ward , M.A. , F.R.S. , late Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , Professor of Botany in the Forestry School , Royal Indian Engineering College , Cooper 's Hill .
Received February 27 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) Pointing out the intimate relations between the study of plant physiology and pathology , the lecturer briefly referred to the existing inodes of classifying the diseases of plants , and the difficulties they involve .
Broadly speaking , there are diseases due to soil , climate , and the influence of the non-living environment on the one hand ; and those due to the attacks of living organisms ( parasitic fungi , insects , \amp ; c. ) on the other .
Some interesting cases were briefly discussed , and the fact brought out that several causal factors co-operate in producing any disease .
With regard to fungus diseases , there are especial complexities , because we have to learn ( 1 ) the life history of the fungus , and ( 2 ) understand the biology of the host-plant , and this means we must ( 3 ) also discover what influences in each case are exerted by the variations of the environment ( heat , light , moisture , \amp ; c. ) in each case .
Even then there is an unknown variable ( 4 ) in the internal changes going on in both the host and the parasite .
After reviewing , with the aid of illustrations and experiments , some of the principal functions of the normal tissues of a green plant , the effects of variations in temperature , intensity of light , amount of water in the air , Ac .
, were discussed .
The chief points are that under certain conditions , e.g. , a low temperature , feeble light , and when the atmosphere is saturated with moisture , the plant may be less able to withstand the inroads of a parasite , because its protective cell-walls are thinner and more watery , its cell sap abounds in sub214 Prof. H. Marshall Ward .
Relations between [ Feb. 27 , stances like glucose , acids , and soluble nitrogenous matters , the protoplasm lining each cell is less capable of destroying substances which can injure ic\#151 ; its respiratory processes being enfeebled\#151 ; and , in short , such a plant approaches the condition of a very young seedling , or a plant growing in the dark .
Experiments have proved that such plants not only offer less resistance to the hypha of a parasite , but the very conditions which cause the plant to abound in materials suitable to the fungus also suit the fung'us itself .
Attention was then called to a peculiar parasitic disease , very common in green-houses , gardens , Ac .
, in this country and elsewhere , and some cuttings of geraniums which had been wholly or partially destroyed by it were exhibited .
One cui'ious fact is , that this fungus causes a sort of rotten-ripeness of grapes on the Rhine , and that these mouldy grapes are those which are used to produce the finest wines in some of the districts : the explanation is that the diseased grapes undergo remarkable changes , by which the proportion of acid is reduced , and the must of the grapes rendered richer .
But although in this case we utilise the effects of the disease-producing fungus , in other cases these fungi cause epidemic diseases of clover , rape , hemp , onions , hyacinths , and other plants .
The symptoms and progress of these diseases were described , the chief points being illustrated by lantern slides and actual specimens , of which there was a collection on the tables .
The fungus attacks the plant by destroying first its cell-walls , and then its protoplasm , cell by cell : this it effects by excreting a series of ferments or poisons .
When it has destroyed the tissues , the fungus proceeds to extend more rapidly , and the destruction quickly advances .
The fungus is as it were in the position of an attacking army , its weapons being these soluble ferments , or poisons , capable of dissolving the cell-walls and killing the living protoplasm in the cells .
The tissues of the host-plant , , again , , are in the position of a besieged army ; the real fighting force being the protoplasm .
The protoplasm as entrenched , so to speak , behind the cellulose cell-walls , and it has in its interior stores or reserves of food-materials which may be in a well replenished condition or the reverse .
The hyphse of the fungus overcome the cell-walls oi ' out-works , by dissolving them by means of soluble ferments , and it will be intelligible that the thickness and solidity of these cell-walls are important in the matter ; thin , soft , watery cell-walls being more easily penetrated .
Once inside the walls , the fungus-hypha is face to face with the real fighting contingent , however , the pi'otoplasm ; and the fact was insisted upon that circumstances affect the power of this protoplasm to cope with the poison which thehypha ?
pour into it .
So long as the 1890 .
] Host and Parasite in certain Diseases of Plants .
215 protoplasm can dispose of the small amounts of poison coming in from the hyphse , by respiratory oxidation or otherwise , the hypha is debarred access to the cells , but immediately the poison succeeds in lessening or destroying the power of the protoplasm to control the cell-sap , the latter exudes through the permeable protoplasm , and suffuses the whole tissues with acid sap , containing just such food-materials as the fungus flourishes in .
Consequently the latter spreads quickly , killing the cells more rapidly than ever , and soon destroying large tracts of tissue .
This killed tissue turns brown , and we can consequently trace the progress of the disease by the spread of the discoloration .
It was shown that the destructive power of the fungus concerned\#151 ; i.e. , the capability of its hyphse to produce the poisons\#151 ; can be enhanced by culture in solutions of sugar , organic acids , and a little nitrogenous material and salts\#151 ; just such a solution as is obtained in infusions of dead vegetable tissues ; consequently the destructive power of the parasite increases as it feeds on the proceeds of destruction .
It has recently been discovered that the successive crops of spores of the fungus differ in infective power , and that , whereas the spores first formed may be unable to infect a living plant , those of the second or third generation can do so .
In conclusion , and passing over the observations and references to other diseases , there are four chief points to be considered in regard to the epidemic fungus-diseases concerned .
First , there is the healthy host-plant itself , which may be a more or less favourable object for the fungus .
Secondly , there is the fungus , which may , or may not be , able to kill the living cells of the host .
Thirdly , the influence of variations in the environment\#151 ; especially low temperatures , want of light , and damp air\#151 ; may so affect the host-plant that it is more easily and quickly infected by the fungus than was the case when its cell-walls were thicker and harder , and its protoplasm more capable of effecting certain processes of metabolism , and controlling the sap in the cells .
Fourthly , the fungus also is capable of being rendered more formidable by variations in its environment , and especially by invigorating culture in suitable food materials .
Now when the external conditions are such that they favour the development of the fungus , while at the same time lowering the metabolic activity and respiratory power of the protoplasm , the conditions for an epidemic of the disease in question exist , and this is frequently realised in a dull , cold , wet July or August in this country .
The point especially insisted on is not that any mysterious predisposition to disease is here manifest , but that the one plant\#151 ; the fungus\#151 ; is favoured by the prevailing conditions of culture more than the other\#151 ; the host-plant .
If we wanted to cultiPresents .
[ Feb. 27 , vate the fungus in one green-house and the host in another , each by itself , we should endeavour to provide the one set of conditions for the fungus , and another and very different set for the host .
Presents , February 27 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Adelaide :\#151 ; Royal Society of South Australia .
Transactions and Proceedings and Report .
Yol .
XI .
8vo .
Adelaide 1889 .
The Society .
Amsterdam :\#151 ; Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen .
Ver-handelingen ( Letterknnde ) .
Deel XYIII .
4to .
Amsterdam 1889 ; Verslagen en Mededeelingen ( Letterkunde ) .
Deel Y. 8vo .
Amsterdam1888 ; Ditto ( Natuurkunde ) .
Dee !
V. 8vo .
Amsterdam 1889 ; Jaarboek .
1888 .
8vo .
Amsterdam [ 1889 .
] The Academy .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins Hospital .
Bulletin .
Yol .
I. No. I. 4to .
Baltimore 1889 .
Johns Hopkins University .
Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
1889 .
Nos. 74-77 .
4to .
Baltimore ; Studies from the Biological Laboi*atory .
Yol .
IY .
No. 5 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1889 .
The University .
Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of the State of Maryland .
Transactions .
1889 .
8vo .
Baltimore .
The Faculty .
Peabody Institute .
Annual Report .
1889 .
8vo .
Baltimore .
The Institute .
Batavia:\#151 ; Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen .
Notulen .
Deel XXYI .
Aflev .
4 .
Deel XXYII .
Aflev .
2-3 .
8vo .
Batavia 1889 ; Register .
1879-1888 .
8vo .
Batavia:1889 ; Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- , Land- en Yolkenkunde .
Deel XXXII .
Aflev .
6 .
Deel XXXIII .
Aflev .
2-4 .
8vo .
Batavia 1889 ; Yerhandelingen .
Deel XLY .
Aflev .
1 .
8vo .
Batavia 1885 ; Plakaatboek .
Deel YI .
8vo .
Batavia 1889 ; Dagh-Register .
Anno 1659 .
8vo .
Batavia 1889 ; De Derde Javaansche Successie-Oorlog ( 1746-1755 ) .
8vo .
Batavia , 1889 .
The Society .
Koninklijke Natuurkundige Yereeniging in Nederlandsch-Indie .
Natuurkundig Tijdschrift .
Deel XLYIII .
8vo .
Batavia 1889 .
With Deel XXII , and Deel XXIV .
( Deficiencies .
) 8vo .
Batavia 1860 , 1862 .
The Association .
Berlin :\#151 ; Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Yerhandlungen .
Bd .
XYI .
Nos. 8-10 .
Bd .
XVII .
No. 1 .
8vo .
1889-90 ; Zeitschrift .
Bd .
XXIY .
Heft 5 .
Bd .
XXY .
Heft 1 .
8vo .
Berlin 1889-90 .
The Society .

