Addition to the Description of the Glasses for preserving things in Spirit of Wine , by Dr. le Cat , page .
6 .
In using the Bottle , of which I have given a Description , I found that it was attended with one Inconvenience .
The circular Groove , the Edge of which was turned up on the Inside of the Bottle , retained a small Quantity of the Water , when I emptied and rinsed it ; so that it was impossible to do it thoroughly .
Wherefore I caused this Vessel to be made , as represented in the annexed Figure , TA B. I. Fig. 1 .
which is a Section of it ; and where it appears that the Groove AA is placed on the Outside of the Edge of the Bottle .
By this means every Drop of the contained Fluid can be poured out .
It is easy to see that the circular Border BB of the Cover is to enter into these Grooves A A , which are filled with Oil or Quicksilver ; and that the Hook C , of the same Cover , is destined to suspend in the Liquor such Pieces as are to be preserved in it .
III .
An Account of Glasses of a new Contrivance , for preserving Pieces of Anatomy or Natural History in spirituous Liquors , by Claud .
Nic .
le Cat. M. D. F. R. S. Royal Demonstrator in Anatomy and Surgery at Roan .
Translated from the French by T. S. M. D. F. R. S. THOSE who have Collections of Anatomy , or Natural History , and preserve Animals , Vegetables , or any of their Parts , in spirituous Liquors , are sensible how expensive it is to supply the Waste of these Spirits , which evaporate considerably .
Read Jan. 19 .
1748 .
Having in 1739 .
begun to make a Collection of this sort , it was not long before I felt the Necessity I was under of contriving some kind of Vessel , or some way of closing the common Glasses , which might prevent , or at least diminish the Quantity of , this Evaporation .
After After trying several Methods , which did not fully satisfy me , I fixed upon the Glass , which is represented in the annexed Figures , TA B. 1 .
Fig. 1 .
and 2 .
Its Difference from the common ones consists in having , ~ round the Edge of its Orifice , a circular Groove or Chanel , Fig. 2 .
A A , an Inch deep for the smaller Sizes , and two Inches for the larger .
This circular Groove is intended to receive a Border , B B , of the same Figure on the Cover C : In the middle of the Concavity of this Cover is a double Hook , on which the Threads are to be fastened , which suspend the Piece or Preparation that is to be put into the Glass .
In putting the Piece into the Glass , which contains the preserving Liquor , Care must be taken to place it on the Hooks in the same Position , which you intend it should keep in the Glass : That done , you are to pour Oil , or Quicksilver , which is better , into the circular Groove A A , so as to make it about half-full .
Then you are to let down the Piece into the preserving Liquor ; and when it is entirely sunk down , the Cover C ought to light upon the Glass , and its circular Border B B , enter into the circular Groove A A , where it falls into the Oil or Quicksilver , which rises up and fills the whole Groove ; by which means the Glass is in some measure hermetically sealed .
The Oil indeed permits some small Evaporation ; the Quicksilver more completely answers the End of this Invention , but it is more expensive , As I had contrived this Glass for my own private Use , I neglected making it public ; till , happening to be present at the public Meeting of the Academy of Sciences of Paris , at Easter 1746 , I heard Mr. de Reaumur read a Memoir on this Subject .
My Glass seemed to me vastly preferable to the Vessels proposed by that great Academician .
This Incident roused my Emulation , and gave me the better Opinion of my Glass , a Pattern of which I sent to M. Morand .
The same Motive engages me to take the Advantage of the Freedom of Correspondence reestablished between France and England , in sending this Description to the Royal Society .
Philos. Trans. No. 491 .
TAB. I. c a Fig. 2 p. 7 .
b BB C C BB AAAAf g Fig. 3 .
Fig. 1 .
p.7 &amp; 88 .

