2 .
" Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism .
" ?
No. V. By Lieut. Colonel Edward Sabine , R.A. , F.R.S. In this paper the author details and discusses the magnetic observations made on board Her Majesty 's ships Erebus and Terror , between October 1810 and April 1841 , being the first summer which the expedition under the command of Captain James Clark Ross , R.N. , passed within the Antarctic Circle .
The eliniination of the iniluencc of the ship 's iron in the calcula ?
tion of the results of these observations occupies a considerable portion of the paper .
Formula } for this purpose are derived from M. Poisson 's fundamcntal equations , and the constants in the formulae are computed for each of the two ships , from observations made on board cxprcssly with that object .
With these constants , tables of double entry are formed for each of the three magnetic elements , namely , declination , inclination , and intensity , giving the required corrections of each , for all the localities of the voyage .
These and other corrections being applied , the results are tabulated and charts formed from them .
The full consideration of the charts is postponed until the whole of the materials collected by the Antarctic Expedition shall be before the Royal Society .
Meanwhile the paper concludes with the following general remarks , viz. 1 .
The observations of declination , particularly those which point out the course of the lines of 0 and of 10 ?
east , indicate a more westerly position than the one assigned by M. Gauss in the ' Atlas des Erdmagnctismus , ' for the spot in which all the lines of declination unite .
The progression of the lines in the southern hemisphere generally , from secular change , is from east to west ; the difference consequently is in the direction in which a change should be found in comparing earlier with more recent clcterminations .
2 .
The general form of the curves of higher inclination in the southern hemisphere is much more analogous to that in the northern than appears in M. Gauss 's maps .
For example , the isoclinal line of ยง 85 ?
, instead of being nearly circular , as represented in the 3te Abtheilung of Plate XVI .
of the i Atlas des Erdmagnetismus , ' is an elongated ellipse , much more nearly resembling in form and dimen ?
sions the ellipse of 85 ?
of inclination in the northern hemisphere in the same work , Plate XVI .
2te Abtheilung .
The analogy between the two hemispheres in the characteristic fcature of the elliptical form of the higher isoclinal lines is the more important to notice .
on account of the particular relation which appears to subsist in the northern hemisphere between the change in the geographical direc ?
tion of the greater axis of the ellipse , and the sccular changes of the inclination generally throughout the hemisphere .
The present direction of the greater axis in the northern hemisphere , is nearly N.N.W. and S.S.E. , or that of a great circle passing through the two foci of maximum intensity .
In the southern hemisphere , the present direction of the greater axis differs little from E.S.E. and W.N.W. 3 .
Captain Ross 's observations of the intensity do not appear to indicate the existence anywhere in the southern hemisphere of a higher intensity than would be expressed by 2T of the arbitrary scale .
In this respect also the analogy between the two hemi ?
spheres appears to be closer than is shown in M. Gauss 's maps , Plate XVIII .
Writh respect to the direction of as much of the line of highest intensity ( 2*0 ) as it has been possible to draw with any degree of confidcncc from the observations now communicated , it will be found to be in almost exact parallelism with the isodynamic line of 1*7 in Plate III .
of the author 's report " On the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity , " in the Report of the eighth meeting of the British Association , for 1838 ; which line was the highest of which the position could be assigned at that period for any considerable distance by the aid of the then existing determinations .

