An Extract of a Letter , relating an Experiment made for altering the Colour of the Chyle in the Lacteal Veins , by Martin Lister Esq ; .
THe passage of the Chyle through the Intestines into the Lacteal Veins , is a thing hitherto demonstrated to the Eye by none .
Dr. Lower ingeniously confesses the ill success he had in trying with Aer , or with tinged Spirit of Wine ; by neither of which he was able to force a passage .
And J.Walaus ( Epist.de motu Chyli ) is very positive , that however the Chyle in the Intestines may be diversely coloured ; yet it is still white in the Lacteal Veins .
And Diemerbrosk in his late Anatomy Published 1672 .
( p. 37 .
) affirms , Chylum semper album inveniri in Vafts Lacteis Mesenterieis &amp; Thoracicis--viridem vero rubrum alteriusve coloris , in iis a nemine hact~ ~ suisse .
Notwithstanding which , and my own former unsuccessful Trials ( Phil. Trans. Numb.95 .
) I did not doubt but that some happy Experiment would show the contrary ; and a purposely coloured Chyle might find admittance into the Lacteal Veins though not by force , yet by the Consent and Introduction of Nature her selfThe success of some late Experiments I made to this purpose , I shall here acquaint you with .
Experiment I. I caused a Dog to be fed , and after four hours , or thereabout ; and having ready by me a clear Tincture of Indigo , dissolved in fair Water and filtred , I opened the Abdomen , and making a small Incision in the Jejunum , I injected an ounce or two .
This done , we stitched up the Gut , and all , again , and the Dog turned upon his Leggs .
After one hour and a quarter , we cut the stiches ; and then beheld a copious Distribution of Chyle and turgid Lacteal Veins ; but as white as ever .
And yet carefully searching the Guts , we perceived none of the Injected Liquor any where .
Exper .
II .
Another Dog , which was kept fasting 40 hours , had a very little flesh , without water , given him , about 5 hours before the Injection of the Tincture of Indigo ; which was performed after the same manner , as before : only it was now well warmed , and about Twelve Ounces thrown up the Duodenum , and down the Ileon .
Here were empty Guts , and not the least appearance of any Lacteal Veins in the Mesentery .
After full 3 hours , the Stiches were cut again ( some business hindring me from doing of it sooner ) and carefully examining the Mesentery , we found many Lacteal Veins of an Azure Colour ; and cutting some of the bigest of them asunder , we plainly saw a thick bluish Chyle to issue forth , and to spread it self over the transparent Membranes of the Mesentery , This is a very truth , which the Surgeon I employed to assist me , in the Experiment , can well witness , whose Eyes I used , as well as my own , in carefully examining these matters .
Whence , although it hath been doubted of by some , yet is it most evident , That the Lacteal Veins receive , what they carry , from within the Cavity of the Intestines .

