On the Nature of the Function expressive of the Law of Human Mortality , and on a new Mode of determining the Value of Life Contingencies .
In a Letter to Francis Bailey , Esq. F.R.S. 8rc .
By Benjamin Gompertz , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 16 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 513 .
] This paper , which professes to be a continuation of former researches on the same subject printed in the Transactions of the Royal Society , is divided into two chapters .
In the first the author considers the nature of the law of those numbers in tables of mortality , which express the amount of persons living at the end of ages in regular arithmetical progression .
He remarks that for short intervals the law approaches nearly to a decreasing geometrical progression , and that this must be the case whatever be the strict expression for the law of mortality , provided the intervals do not exceed certain limits .
But he further remarks , that this property will be found to belong to very extensive portions of tables of mortality , and instances Deparcieux 's tables , where from the age of 25 to that of 45 , the numbers living at the end of each year decrease very nearly in geometrical progression .
Considering however the whole extent of such a table , it will be found that the ratio of this geometrical progression is not the same in all parts of the table .
But before he enters on this consideration , the author draws some consequences from the hypothesis of a geometrical progression being the strict law of nature after a certain age .
One of these is the equality of value of all life annuities commencing after that age .
Another is , that the want of instances in history of persons living to very enormous ages ( waving those of the patriarchs , ) is no proof that such may not be the law of nature , as he shows by calculation , that out of 3,000,000 persons of 92 , not more than one should on this supposition reach 192 .
This leads him to some general considerations on the causes of death , after which he resumes the consideration of the general law of the tables .
To find this a priori , he supposes that a person 's resistance to death decreases as his years increase , in such a manner , that at the end of equal infinitely small intervals of time , he loses equal infinitely small portions of his vital powers .
He further supposes , that among any given number of persons of equal vital powers the probability of death is the same , but that among all , it is inversely proportional to the vitality .
These postulata being assumed , he enters into an analytical investigation , the result of which is a representation of the law of life by such a function as is sometimes called a double exponential , that is , a geometric progression in which the ratio is itself variable in geometric progression .
He then proceeds to examine the coincidence of this law , with several tables of the best authority , such as those of Deparcieux , Northampton , the Swedish and Carlisle tables , and the supposed experience of the Equitable Assurance Office .
The results of these comparisons are stated in a tabular form , and are very favourable to the law supposed .
In the second chapter , the author , after briefly explaining by algebraical reasoning , the mode of applying these principles to calculations of annuities , proposes general tables for facilitating this application in practice .
These tables ( which occupy 28 folio pages , and represent the logarithm of the present values of annuities for every value of a certain argument , ) are actually calculated , and annexed to the communication , forming the principal part of the second chapter .

