II .
An Account of an Experiment , showing that actual Sound is not to be Transmitted through a Vacuum .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. THAT the Experiments already made , endeavouring to produce Sound from a Bell in Vacuo , have been altogether ineffectual , is sufficiently manifest : Yet that the loss of it should be wholly attributed to the absence of the Air , I think could not without another Experiment be absolutely concluded , since the following Query , ( which very well deserves an Answer ) might fairly be started upon this Occasion .
Whether the Sonorous Body in such a Medium might not so suffer , or undergo such a Change in its Parts , as to be rendered incapable of being put into such a Motion as is requisite for the Action or Production of Sound .
Now to set the Matter of Fact in a true Light as near as I could , I contrived the following Experiment .
I took a strong Receiver , armed with a Brass-hoop at bottom , in which I included a Bell as large as well it could contain .
This Receiver I screwed strongly down to a Brass-Plate , with a wet Leather between , and was full of common Air , which could no ways makes its escape .
Thus secured , it was set on the Pump , where it was covered with another large Receiver .
ceiver .
In this manner , the Air contained between the outward and inward Receivers was exhausted .
Now here I was sure , when the Clapper should be made to strike the Bell , there would be actual Sound produced in the inward Receiver , the Air in which was of the same density with common Air ; and could suffer no Alteration by the Vacuum on its outside , so strongly was it secured on all sides .
And as I said before , that if the Sonorous Body should suffer in any measure , by being in a very rare Medium , so as to contribute to the loss of its Sound , that this Method seemed probable to discover it .
Thus all being ready for Trial , the Clapper was made to strike the Bell ; but I found that there was no transmission of it thro ' the Vacuum , tho ' I was sure there was actual Sound produced in the Receiver .
This plainly shows , and seems positively to confirm , That Air is the only Medium for the Propagation of Sound .

