% 1890 .
] On the Cingulum , fc .
, of the Marmoset Monkey .
271 ti I | i*i \#171 ; \#187 ; i US ' l !
in Hi rii F s ] i a t E 0 )i * i i i ?
i I i s I IF jt I the lower ends from the inside by the breadth of the hook .
If now the distances between the fibres top and bottom are nearly the same , no sensible error will be made by taking the product of these distances as equal to the product of the breadth of the hook and the width of the metal aperture .
( 2 .
) To render the controlling couple produced by the deflected bifilars independent of temperature , it is proposed to select metals with appropriate coefficients of expansion for regulating the dimensions of the bifilars top and bottom , and to alter the length of the silk fibres by an appropriate arrangement , so that a pointer attached to the hook at the lower end shall always come to a fiducial point upon a strip of brass attached to the metal framework which forms the upper suspension .
The neatest way of doing this seems to be to cement the plane and silvered side of a short-focus plano-convex lens to the strip of brass , and to arrange its position with reference lo the pointer so that the tip of the latter is exactly in the focus of the lens .
In this position the tip and its reflected image will appear just in coincidence , and if necessary a lens may be provided in the side of the instrument for observing the relative positions of the pointer and its image and adjusting them to coincidence .
] VIII .
" On the course of the Fibres of the Cingulum and the Posterior Parts of the Corpus Callosum and of the Fornix in the Marmoset Monkey .
" By Charles E. Beevor , M.D. , F.R.C.P , Communicated by Professor Ferrier , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) This paper has for its scope the investigation by the microscope of the course of certain fibre-tracts in the brain which have not hitherto been minutely examined .
Alter an introduction showing the difficulties of tracing these fibres by dissection and by other means , the method of investigation is given .
This consisted in cutting serial sections of the brain of the Marmoset Monkey ( Hapalejaetans and after hardening in bichromate of potash ; the sections were stained by Weigert 's and also by Pal 's hsematoxylin methods , whereby the fibres are differentiated .
In this way , a complete series of sections was made in the sagittal and horizontal planes , and almost a complete series in the frontal direction , and by combining the appearances found in the three planes , a mental picture of the whole could thus be obtained .
In the description of this brain , emphasis is laid on its small size , " which renders it very easy of manipulation , while , from its high position in the animal scale , its general arrangement is comparable 272 On the Cingulum , fyc .
, of the Marmoset Monkey .
[ June lft with the brain of man .
Moreover , the slight amount of convolution on its median surface is a very great advantage in tracing fibres .
this is especially the case with the calloso-marginal sulcus , the absence of which enables the fibres of the cingulum to be followed in a way not obtainable in the brains of other apes and of man .
The cingulum , or the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus , is described in three parts:\#151 ; 1 .
Horizontal , above the corpus callosum ; 2 .
Anterior , in front of this body ; 3 .
Posterior , from behind the corpus callosum to the anterior end of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe .
The horizontal part consists , not of fibres extending through its whole length , but of internuncial fibres coursing between the gyrus fornicatus and the centrum ovale ; the anterior part connects the olfactory nerve with the frontal region ; the posterior part contains internuncial fibres between the gyrus hippocampi and the inferior surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe .
The cingulum is not connected with the hippocampal lobule and its contained nucleus amygdalae , as was considered by Broca .
Reference is made to an operation in the monkey , performed for the author by Professor Horsley , in which the cingulum was divided , producing degeneration in it in a posterior direction .
From the relation of the gyrus fomicatus to sensation found by Professors Horsley and Schafer , it is suggested that the cingulum joins this gyrus representing sensation with the part of the centrum ovale connected with the so-called motor cortex .
The calcarine fibres bounding the calcarine fissure are described as internuncial fibres analogous to the cingulum , and the superficial fibres of the gyrus fornicatus are considered to be a separate tract and not part of the cingulum .
The posterior part of the corpus callosum is described in three parts:\#151 ; 1 .
The body , giving off the tapetum to supply the cortex bounding externally the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral ventricle .
2 .
The splenium , ending in the forceps major , sending fibres to the inner part of the occipital lobe below the calcarine fissure .
3 .
A.n intermediate part between the two former , forming with the tapetum the roof of the posterior cornu , and supplying the cortex of the upper lip of the calcarine fissure .
Ho connexion between these fibres and those of the internal capsule , as described by Professor Hamilton , can be found .
The fornix comprises the body and the posterior crura .
The body can be separated , While in the septum lucidum , into ( 1 ) a Increase of Intracranial Pressure or Tension . !
median and ( 2 ) a lateral part .
The median part can be traced i horizontally backwards into the septum between the body and the splenium of the corpus callosum , but not to join the cingulum as I Ascribed by Meynert .
The lateral fibres descend the lateral I ventricle , becoming the tsenia hippocampi or fimbria , and end in the 5 cortex of the cornu Ammonis , while the alveus of this body receives fibres from its cortex , and then passes to its under surface to send fibres to the inferior surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe .
Besides these parts , there are the transverse fibres connecting the cornua i Ammonis of opposite sides .
Particular attention is directed to the different degree of staining i by Weigert 's method of the corpus callosum , fornix , and tsenia semicircularis , of which the last is scarcely coloured , suggesting that it is a degenerated or non-developed structure .
IX .
" On the Changes produced in the Circulation and Respiration by Increase of the Intracranial Pressure or Tension .
" By Walter Spencer , M.S. , Assistant Surgeon to Westminster Hospital , and Victor Horsley , B.S. , F.R.S. Received June 12 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) j i\ ) The authors have made for some time the effect of an increase in intracranial pressure or tension the subject of an experimental inquiry , and they have in this paper recorded the results obtained , in so far as the increase of intracranial pressure affects the circulation and respiration .
They conclude that the increase in intracranial pressure influences the circulation and respiration through the diminution in the physiological activity of the medulla which it causes , and show that the changes produced by the pressure assume a sequence according to the degree to which the activity of the medulla is impaired .
The authors first give an historical resume of the work of previous observers , and then a short introduction on some anatomical and physiological details which relate to the part of the subject under consideration .
The method chiefly employed of increasing intracranial pressure was by inserting a small rubber bag through a trephine bole in 0 8^nH\gt ; and then distending the bag by means of a column of mercury , which served to show at once the pressure required to dis-enT , the hag\gt ; and the extent to which the bag was distended .
e capacity of the thin-walled rubber bag , when distended , was at

