]\gt ; 182 Mr. W. C. Dampier Whetham .
of the C.G.S. electrostatic unit of quantity .
OtheI estimates of the amount of this remarkable unit of electricity have since been made , and do not materially differ above .
Here , then , we have all machinery required .
The motions which go on actively within chemical atoms can scarcely fail to wave about electrons which are so closely associated with them ; and we know that the waving about of such of these cbarges of electricity for the time happen to be u.ndisguised , must generate in ether exactly such electro-magnetic waves as those revealed to us the spectra of gases ( see ' Transactions of the Royal Dublin Society , vol. 4 ( 1891 ) , p. . .
" " On the Velocities of the Ions By W. .
DAMPIER WHETHAbI , , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , Communicated by ofessor J. J. THONISON , F.B.S. Be .
ceived .
1895 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous communication to the Royal Society ( ' Phil. Trans. , 184 , ( 1893 ) , A. p. 337 ) , I have described a method of experimentally determining the velocities of the ions during electrolysis , by observations on the phenomena which occur a current of electricity is passed across the junction of two salt solutions , ome at ] east of which is coloured .
The resuIts obtained agreed , within the limits of experimental error , with the numbers deduced by Professor F. Kohlrausch from measurements of the conductivities .
The method is , however , seriously restricted by the conditions necessary for its success .
The two solutions must be of different densities , of different colours , and of nearly equal conductivities at equivalent concentrations .
In order to extend the method , I have used solid solutions in agaragar jelly , tracing the motion of the ion by the formation of a precipitate .
Jelly solutio1ls were employed by Dr. Oliver Lodge , but , although he got a good result for hydrogen with phenol-phthallein as an indicator , when he tried to measure the velocity of bal.ium and strontium by watching the formation of precipitates , the experiments were not very successful .
This was probably due to the fact that , when a cipitate orms , it removes some of the electrolyte from solution , and so increases the specific resistance and the local potential-gradient .
In order to eliminate this disturbing cause , instead of setting up two lutions which completely precipitate each other , like barium chloride and sodium sulphate , use was made of barium chloride and sodium chloride , just enough sodium sulphate being added to the latter to enable the motion of the barium ions to be traced by the 1895 .
] On the tocities of the Ions .
183 formation of a slight precipitate of barium sulphate .
That this did not serionsly affect the result was shown by making two detel'mlIlations of the velocity of the barium , much more sodium sulphate being present in the first case thaIJ j the second .
The numbers obtained for the specilic ionic velocity were and cm .
per second x.espectively .
The influence of the jelly was examined by determining the velocity of the bicbromate gronp with solid solutions of potassium bicbromate and potassium \mdash ; the motion being indicated by the in colour .
The result was cm .
per second .
In the former paper the velocity of the same ion , measured by means of aqueous solutions of these salts , came out cm .
per second .
The influence of the jelly thus appears to be small , as is also indicated by Arrhenius ' experiments on the conductivity of such solutions ( ' B. A. Report , ' 1886 , p. 344 ) .
The apparatus used and the meth od of measul.ement were tlIe same in the former investigation .
Two verticaI glass tubes , about 2 cm .
in diameter , were joined by a third , considerably narrower , which was bent to the others for the greater part of its length .
In this tube the jelly solutions came in contact with each other , and formed a slight precipitate at the junction .
When was passed from one solution to the other .
this bpread , and the rate at which its advancing surface moved , was measured on a glass scale placed behind it , the observations being made through a telescope .
184 Mr. W. C. Dampier Whetham .
[ May 30 , If the potential-gradient at the junction is , we have where represents the tota ] current , the specific resistance of the solution .
, and A the area of cross-section of the tube .
If is the observed velocity , the specific velocity for unit potential gradient is given by A is determined by filling a known length of the tube with water mercury , is read off on a galvanometer previously graduated by neans of a Daniell cell and a box of resistance coils , and is determined by Kohlrausch 's method of a Wheatstone 's bridge with ] alternating currents .
The solutions must be of nearly equal conductivities , so that a mean value of may be taken .
This is the more important because : unlike the -boundary method , the formation of a precipitate an irreversible process .
Measurements cannot , therefore , be with the currcnt flowing in both directions , which , in the forme1 paper , was shown to get rid of the disturbing effect of any remaining difference in conductivity .
All that can be done is to choose solutions whose conductivities are very nearly equal , so that the uncertainty which must appear in the result shall be , at all events , as small as possible .
The apparatus was immersed in a water bath , and the resuIts all corrected to a temperature of C. , in order that they might be comparable Kohlrausch 's calculated values .
The following results were obtained:\mdash ; Barium .
used : decinormal barium chloride and sodium chloride , a little sodium sulphat , e being added to the latter .
Temperature , .
Mean conductivity at in reciprocals of legal ohms , .
NIean current , ampere .
Area of cross-section of tube , .
cm .
Mean velocity of precipitate , cm .
in 10 minutes .
cm .
per sec. The temperature coefficient was found to be per cent. per degree , so that we get for the specffic ionic velocity of the barium ion , traveIling through a decinormal soIution of barium chloride in solid agar jelly at a temperature of cm .
per sec. For an aqueous solution of this strength Kohlrausch gives ( ' Wied .
Ann vol. 50 , p. 385 ) cm .
r er - , 1895 .
] On the elocities of the .
185 With new solutions , containing only just enough sulphate to give a visible precipitate , the esult was cm .
per sec. Calcinrn.\mdash ; Solutions used : decinormal calcium and sodium , the .
containing a considerable amount of sodium cal.bonate , in order to get a visil ) precipitate ; this increases the distlll.bing effect of precipitation .
TemperatLll.e , .
Mean conductivity at fean .
Area , .
cm .
Mean velocity , cm .
in 10 ntes .
cm .
per sec. Kohlrausch gives ) cm .
sec. ions u : decinornlal f , ilver nitrate and nitrate , the lattel .
collttining a little sodium chloride . .
Mean conductivity at lIeau current , .
Area , .
cm .
) velocity , cm .
in 10 utes .
cm .
per sec. Kohlrausch gives cm .
per sec. The Snlphafe Group .\mdash ; Solutions used : decinormal sodium and sodium chloride , latter a little barium Tempel.atul.e , .
Mean conductivity at lIeau curl'ent , .
Area , .
cm .
lIean minutes .
cm .
per sec. ation in a tube whose area of cross-section sq . .
gave cm .
per sec. cm .
per sec. The esult goes to show t'nat the velocities measured agree , within the limits of experimental erro ] , 's numbers .
* It already been shown ( Phil. Mag October , 1894 ) that travelling acetates whose tration is the velocity of the hydrogen ion is about cm .
pel.secolld , * It is orthy of note all the results for kations slightly larger indicated } theory , while the oniy measurel]lent made aniou give a valuc which is less .
may ) ibly be a resuIt of the use 01 jelly .
@ 186 Mr. W. C. Dampier Whetham .
[ May 30 , whereas in other solutions , such as chlorides , it is about , that is .
about 46 times as great .
Now acetic acid at the concentration mentioned above has an abnormally low conductivity , only the 1/ 62 part of that of an equivalent solution of hydrochloric acid , so that , in such cases , the immediate cause of the low vity appears to be a reduction in the ionic velocities .
An attempt was made to complete the investigation of acetic acid by measuring the velocity of the acetate group .
I thought the red colour , which acetates give with ferric salts , might be used as indicator , and for this purpose set up solutions of ferric chloride and ferric chloride coloured red by ferric acetate .
These ferric salts are said to be decomposed in solution into ferric hydroxide and the acid .
Besides the chemical reasons in favour of this hypothesis , it is supported by the conductivities .
Ferric chloride , which gives chloric acid , is known to have abnormally great conductivity , and measurements I have carried to great dilution show that the molecular conductivity reaches a maximum at a certain concentration , and , as the dilution is pushed further , sinks again .
This behaviour is characteristic of the solutions of acids .
In the case of ferric acetate , acetic acid is produced , and the molecular conductivity is abnormally .
It seemed likely , then , that the red colour produced by acetates , when added to soIutions of ferric salts , might be nsed as a means of measuring the velocity of the acetate group in acid solutions .
When the experiment was made , however , it was found that the colour boundary travelled in the wrong directicn for an anion , , with the cnxrent , the specific velocity being cm .
per second .
Now it is unlikely that ion should behave thus , and an experiment on the migration phenomena of a soIution of acetic acid showed that there was no accumulation of acid round the kathode .
The result of further investigation was to show that the red colour of such solutions is due to the presence of soluble ferric hydroxide , and that , under the influence of a current , this is transported the solution without decomposition in the direction of the current .
Among experiments , a direct measurement of the velocity of the transport was made .
If a solution of ferric chloride be dialysed through parchment paper , hydrochloric acid escapcs , while a red solution of soluble ferric hydroxide , known as " " dialysed \ldquo ; remains .
This was used to colour a solution of ferric chloride , which was set up in contact with an ordinary aqueous solution of ferric chloride of the same concentration .
The specific velocity of the hydroxide could thus be determined by observing the motion of the colour boundal.y , and came out cm .
per second in the direction of the current .
It is evident that this is what we were measuring in the case of the acetate described above .
The conductivity of the dialysed iron solution is very low , and an 1895 .
] the Vlocities of the .
187 investigation on its value .
solutions of different concentration led to the concIusion that , in such solutions , the whole work of carrying the CUl'rent is done by the residual ferric chloride , which is itself decomposed to some extent into hydroxide and acid , though perhaps the decomposed is not so large as in solutions without excess of fel.ric hydroxide , which is one of the products of decomposition .
An experiment on the migration of acetic acid showed that the velocity of the acetate group was , at all events , small , so that , as in the case of mineral acids , the is mainl due to the motion of the hydrogen .
The .
table gives the velocities of all ions wlIich have been experimentally determined , \mdash ; WhethamO .
Lodge .
values ulated f for the same of soIution as that used for the ation .
In cahe of copper , in decinormal copper chloride , there no migration data for this .
The velocity of the copper ion at is given by ausch as .
The sum of the ionic velocities of cobalt nitrate in alcohol , as calculated the conduc:tivity , comcs our , and that for ) lIloride 0 These numbers are to be compared with the sum of the obsel.ved clocities given above , namely , and respectively .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to

