350 Profs .
Living and Dewar [ May 2 , scopical examination directly , without any transference of the infusion ; and the bulb E being filled with calcined air , enables the experimenter , when the whole piece of apparatus is closed at J , to restore air to the bulb A containing the infusion , by breaking the thin septum F by means of the comparatively heavy piece of platinum H , which opens a communication between E and A. Figure 27 .
Is the same as the above , except for the added tube MN .
This is intended to be used if the fluid should prove to be sterilized , for the purpose of inoculating it again by means of a piece of platinum which is charged with the fluid in which the organism is abounding .
This is introduced into the tube , which is at once closed at M. It is then made to break the septum L , and falls into the fluid inoculating it , to discover if it still has the power to sustain the organism .
All the drawings of the organism are magnified 3,000 diameters , except where otherwise indicated on the plates .
II .
" On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" By G. D. LlVElNG , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
No. II .
Received March 26 , 1878 .
Since our last communication to the Society we have succeeded in reversing characteristic lines of the vapours of rubidium and caesium .
Considering the known volatility of these elements , and the small quantity of their compounds at our disposal , we thought it better to try the effects first in glass tubes .
For this purpose a piece of combustion tubing had one end drawn out and the end turned up sharply , and sealed off ( like an ill-made combustion tube of the usual form ) so as to produce an approximately plane face at the end of the tube ; a small bulb was then blown at about an inch from the end , and the tube drawn out at about an inch from the bulb on the other side , so as to form a long narrower tube .
Some dry rubidium or caesium chloride was next introduced into the bulb , and a fragment of fresh cut sodium , and the narrow part of the tube turned up , so as to allow the tube and bulb to be seen through in the direction of the axis of the tube .
The open end was then attached to a Sprengel pump , and the air exhausted ; the sodium was then melted , and afterwards either dry hydrogen or dry nitrogen admitted , and the end of the tube sealed off at nearly the atmospheric pressure .
We found it necessary to have this pressure of gas inside the tube , otherwise the metal distilled so fast on heating it that the ends were speedily obscured by condensed drops of metal .
Through these tubes placed lengthways in front of a spectroscope , a lime light was viewed .
On warming the bulb of a tube in which rubidium chloride had been sealed up with sodium , the D lines were of course very soon seen , and very soon there appeared two dark lines near the extremity of the violet light , which , on measure 1878.1 on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
351 meant , were found to be identical in position with the well-known violet lines of rubidium .
Next appeared faintly the channelled spectrum of sodium in the green , and then a dark line in the blue , very sharp and decided , in the place of the more refrangible of the characteristic lines of caesium in the flame spectrum .
As the temperature rose these dark lines , especially those in the violet , became sensibly broader ; and then another fine dark line appeared in the blue , in the place of the less refrangible of the caesium blue lines .
During this time no dark line could be observed in the red , but as the temperature rose a broad absorption band appeared in the red , with its centre about midway between B and C , ill-defined at the edges , and though plainly visible not very dark .
The lines in the violet had now become so broad as to touch each other and form one dark band .
On cooling , the absorption band in the red became gradually lighter without becoming defined , and was finally overpowered by the channelled spectrum of sodium in that region .
The double dark line in the violet became sharply defined again as the temperature fell .
There are two blue lines in the spectrum of rubidium taken with an induction-coil very near the two blue lines of caesium , but they are comparatively feeble , and the two dark lines in the blue which we observed in the places of the characteristic blue lines of caesium we believe must have been due to a small quantity of caesium chloride in the sample of rubidium chloride .
These blue lines were not , however , visible when some of the rubidium chloride was held in the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , nor when a spark was taken from a solution of the chloride ; but the more refrangible of them ( Csa ) was visible in the spark of an induction-coil , without a Leyden jar , taken between beads of the rubidium chloride fused on platinum wires .
When a tube containing caesium chloride and sodium was observed , in the same way as the former , the two dark lines in the blue were seen very soon after the heating began , and the more refrangible of them broadened out very sensibly as the temperature increased , ike usual channelled spectrum of sodium was seen in the green , and an additional channelling appeared in the yellow , which may be due to caesium or to the mixture of the two metals .
We have at present no metallic caesium wherewith to decide this question .
Indeed the caesium chloride used was not free from rubidium , and the dark lines of rubidium were distinctly seen in the violet .
_ .
, , It is remarkable that these absorption lines of caesium coincide ' with the blue lines of caesium as seen in the flame , not with the green line which that metal shows when heated in an electric spark ot hig I density .
It is to be observed , however , that when sparks from an induction-coil without a jar are taken between beads of caesium chlo-I ride , fused on platinum wires , a spectrum similar to the flame spectrum I is seen , and it is only when a Leyden jar is used that the spectrum is reduced to a green line .
In like manner both the violet lines ot 352 Profs .
Living and Dewar [ May rubidium are reversed in our tubes , and both these violet lines are seen when the spark of an induction-coil , without jar , is passed between beads of rubidium chloride fused on platinum wire , though only one of them appears when a Leyden jar is used .
We have not repeated these observations on caesium and rubidium in iron tubes , because the light emitted from the hot iron does not extend so far into the violet as the rubidium lines , and the amount of caesium at our command at present is very small .
We have extended our observations on the absorption of magnesium and of mixtures of magnesium with potassium and sodium , using iron tubes placed vertically in a small furnace fed with Welsh coal , as described in our former communication .
The result of several observations , when commercial magnesium magnesium with only a small percentage of sodium in it ) was used , is that the absorption produced by magnesium consists of\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Two sharp lines in the green , of which one , which is broader than the other , and appears to broaden as the temperature increases , coincides in position with the least refrangible of the b group , while the other is less refrangible , and has a wave length very nearly 5,210 .
These lines are the first and the last to be seen and very constant , and we at first took them for the extreme lines of the b group.* ( ^ .
) A- dark line in the blue , always more or less broad , difficult to measure exactly , but very near the place of the brightest blue line of magnesium .
This line was not always visible , indeed rarely when magnesium alone was placed in the tube .
It was better seen when a small quantity of potassium was added .
The measure of the less refrangible edge of this band then gave a wave length of very nearly 4,615 .
It was also seen when sodium and magnesium were used together , but it was more difficult to get a measure of it in this case , as the sodium obscures the blue part of the spectrum .
A measure taken when sodium was used gave a wave length 4,580 , but this can only be regarded as an approximation .
* ( 3 .
) A third line or band in the green rather more refrangible than the b group .
This is best seen when potassium as well as magnesium is introduced , into the tube , but it may also be seen with sodium and magnesium .
The less refrangible edge of this band is sharply defined , and has a wave length about 5,140 , and it fades away towards the blue .
These absorptions are all seen both when potassium and when sodium are used along with magnesium , and may be fairly ascribed to magnesium , or to magnesium together with hydrogen .
But besides these , other absorptions are seen which appear to be due to mixed vapours .
* On one occasion a dark line corresponding to b % was also seen .
L878.1 on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
353 ( 4 .
) When sodium and magnesium are used together a dark line , with ill-defined edges , is seen in the green , with a wave length about 5,300 .
This is the characteristic absorption of the mixed vapours of sodium and magnesium , it is not seen with either vapour separately , nor is it seen when potassium is used instead of sodium .
( 5 .
) When potassium and magnesium are used together , a pair of dark lines are seen in the red .
The less refrangible of these sometimes broadens into a band with ill-defined edges , and has a mean wave length of about 6,580 .
The other is always a fine sharp line , with a wave length about 6,475 .
These lines are as regularly seen with the mixture of potassium and magnesium as the above-mentioned line ( 5,300 ) is seen with the mixture of sodium and magnesium , but are not seen except with that mixture .
( 6 .
) On one occasion , with a mixture of potassium and magnesium , another dark line was seen in the blue , with a wave length nearly 4,820 .
This line is very near one of the bright lines , seen when sparks from an induction-coil , without a Leyden jar , are taken between electrodes of magnesium , and may very likely be due to magnesium alone , and not to the mixture of vapours , as we only observed it on one occasion .
There is a certain resemblance between the absorptions above ascribed to magnesium , and the emission spectrum seen when the sparks of a small induction-coil , without Leyden jar , are taken between electrodes of magnesium .
This emission spectrum is the same , with the addition of some blue lines , as that seen when the sparks are taken from a solution of magnesium chloride , as accurately described by Lecoq de Boisbaudran ( Spectreslumineux , p. 86 ) , and as that seen in burning magnesium ( Dr. W. M. Watts , Phil. Mag. , 1875 ) , and consists , as we have observed , of lines with the following wave lengths4,481 , 4,590 ( Thalen 4,586 ) , 4,570 ( Thalen 4,565 ) , 4,797 , 4,930 , 4,945 , 4,957,4,969 , 4,980 , 4,990 , 5,000 , the well-known group , and 5,528 ( Thalen ) .
The pair of lines ( 1 ) correspond nearly with the b group , but slightly displaced towards the red ; the shaded band ( 3 ) corresponds iess closely to the series of seven lines 5,000 to 4,930 , which progressively decrease in brightness towards the blue , and is also a little less refrangible than that series ; the broad line in the blue ( 2 ) corresponds to the pair of lines 4,570 and 4,590 ; and the remaining line ( 6 ) with the line 4,797 , also both displaced a little towards the red .
No absorption corresponding to the extreme lines 4,481 and 5,528 was observed .
There is plainly no exact reversal except of the line bu and even in that case it may be an accident if we suppose the two dark lines ( 1 ) to represent the extreme line of the group b. It may be .
noted in connexion with this that the absorption lines described by us in our former communication as seen with sodium and potassium Prof. J. Dewar on [ May 2 , ( wave lengths 5,510 and 5,730 ) are near to , hut more refrangible than , well-known emission lines of those elements .
The absorptions produced by the mixtures of vapours plainly offer a wide field for further observation .
At present we have not succeeded in observing those produced by mixtures of vapours other than those here recorded ; and it'seems needful to use tubes of a less fusible material than iron , which , notwithstanding the protection of fireclay , very quickly gives way at the temperatures we have used .
With regard to those above described , we may observe that there is in1 the solar spectrum an absorption line , hitherto unaccounted for , closely corresponding to each of them .
Thus , on Angstrom and Thalen 's map there are dark lines at 6,580 and 6,585 , with more or less continuous absorption between them , a broad dark line between 6,474 and 6,475 , and a dark line at 5,300 .
There are also dark lines nearly , if not exactly , coincident with the series of seven bright lines of magnesium above described , which we have not seen strictly reversed .
The coincidences of the series of the solar spectrum hitherto observed have , for the most part , been with lines given by dense electric sparks ; while it is not improbable that the conditions of temperature , and the admixtures of vapours in the upper part of the solar atmosphere , may resemble much more nearly those in our tubes .
We intend to pursue our observations , using higher temperatures , if we can obtain tubes which will stand under those circumstances .
III .
" Preliminary Note on Experiments in Electro Photometry .
" By Professor James Dewar , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor University of Cambridge .
Received March 26 , 1878 .
Edmond Becquerel , in the year 1839 , opened up a new field of chemical research through the discovery that electric currents may be developed during the production of chemical inter-actions excited by solar agency .
Hunt , in the year 1840 , repeated , with many modifications , Bec-querel 's experiments , and confirmed his results ; Grove , in 1858 , examined the influence of light on the polarized electrode , and concluded that the effect of light was simply an augmentation of the chemical action taking place at the surface of the electrodes .
Becquerel , in his well-known work , " La Lumiere , " published in 1868 , gives details regarding the construction of an electro-chemical actinometer formed by coating plates of silver with a thin film of the sub-chloride , and subsequent heating for many hours to a temperature of 150 ' G. Egeroff , in 1877 , suggested the use of a double apparatus of

