]\gt ; COVARIANTS OF PLANH } CURVES .
ooefficients ( independent of their order ) , and that the difference of the weight of the coefficient of a term and the index of the power of which it contains is uniform throughout .
These determine the character of the general equation of a curve of the degree , osculating a given curve , the order of the highest differential coefficient being In its differential equation the degree is greater than this value by , the weight by , and the order by 1 .
If the curve has any imposed condition , such as the possession of a double point , these criteria are altered .
2 .
of of Plane Ourves .
Abandoning the condition , as yet imposed , of considering the equation to an osculating curve , the question proposed is to examine the conditions , bobh simpte and in the form of linear partial differential equations , which must satisfy in order that it may become . . .
( 36 ) under the general linear homographic transformation stated above .
The condition that and are necessarily connected with , by the relations just found , will not be lequired , but they will serve as criteria for recogmsing general cases .
The sitnple conditions are exactly analogous to those found by HALPHEN for Differential Invariants ( ' These , ' p. 21 ) , and result from the same simple transformations .
1 .
From putting , we conclude , as before , that the function is homogeneous in and the several differential coefficients of 2 .
From putting , we conclude that the weight of the coefficient of each power of is uniform , and that this weight diminished by the index of the power of is uniform throughout the function .
3 .
We have chosen the form of the expression , so that we draw no further conclusionffom a mere change of origin of coordinates .
The form of the multiplying factor as as that of the function might have been found from the method which follows , and its correctness is established from it .
To obtain the linear partial differential equations which the functions must satisfy , we consider infinitesimal transformations .
Being infinitesimal we may consider them separately .
The transformations are four in number .
The first two would apply to a general infinitesimal Cartesian transformation , and so the results are the partial differential equations suitable to that case .
The other two only concern our more general transformation , and , as we shall see , results have a rent character from those of the first two .
oslashcccxcm\mdash ; A. Write where , being infinitesimal , we shall only retain its first power .
Then , by hypothesis , - . .
Also expanding by TAYLOR'S theorem Therefore ( 4 ) .
Hence we come the conclusion we arrived at before , that and only enter in the form , or We shall now reintroduce , and write the functions . .
\amp ; c. The method we have used here we shall use iu the other cases .
We evaluate the multiplying factor to obtain one expression for . .
and obtain a second by expanding the function in accordamce with the transformation considered .
8 .
Having now iutroduced , we shall treat the other infinitesimal transformations by a more general method .
Consider the homographic transformation where , A and are indefinitely small quantities whose squares and produots will be neglected .
Thus : COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
so that the multiplyin factor .
4 .
Determination of The dependent variable is supposed to be connected with the independent by some relation , say , so that is the coefficient of in the expansion of .
The homographic relations may for our present purpose be written , whence where on the right-hand side never appears except when affected by a small coefficient .
Now write in place of X , and COIlsequently for the coefficient of in the resulting expression on the right is then But this expression may be written .
Henee and generally coefficient of from MR. R. F. GWYTHHIR ON THE DIFFHiRENTIAL In the small terms we may substitute for , and thus obtain ( 5 ) , where by we denote that all values of are to be taken from 1 upwards .
5 .
of and stands in place of , and , upon transformation , becomes .
( 6 ) , becomes and becomes .
( 8 ) , therefore becomes ( 9)- , and becomes A only .
hIultiplying factor , Hence The only new condition arising from these terms is ( 13 ) .
Lastly , only .
Multiplying factor therefore We have again repetitions of previous conditions with the sole new condition .
( 14 ) .
COyARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
where denotes deduction by the operator in which we can easily trace the relations ( 16 ) According to this mode of procedure is the matrix from which the other coefficients in the covariant are developed .
It is necessary thab should be a homogeneous isobaric function of the differential coefficients satisfying the differential equation .
It is also essential that it shaU not be an invariant as then no development ensues .
Taking the solution of , including only differential coefficients up to the fourth order , we obtain , and from it the general covariant of conics may be developed .
13 .
General solution of , and theory of eduction of trices .
Confining ourselves to the coefficients in the covariant functions , the equations ( 18 ) may be written . . . . . .
( 18A ) .
Hence , if is a homogeueous isobaric function of the differential coefficients such that , then and if the weight and degree of are such that , then also satisfies the same differential equation , and it is homogeneous and isobaric .
The solutions of up to the fourth order are and ; ffom these we form , so as to satisfy and obtain from ib by differentiation the educt of the fifth order which is the differential invariant of conics , and does not produce any covariant by development .
By this process of eduction , a solution can be found for each order , but it is possible to find a simpler series of solutions of than those thus obtained .
14 .
Extension of the theory of eduction of trices .
Tf is a matrix , and if we write \amp ; c. for \amp ; c. , it is easily seen that Similarly , \amp ; c. , where and are order and degree of Hence and are matrices , and are of the form of the matrix and differential invariant of conics .
Generally , if and are two matrices , and if and are the respective va ; lues of for each , is a matrix .
Convenient of the equations and of the ir.reducible matrices .
In obtaining the differential equations of condition ( 15 ) , and in considering the method of eduction by differentiation , there has been a convenience in retaining the diiferential coefficients \amp ; c. , but the forms of the equations , and of their solutions , are ] ified by replacing them by \amp ; c. , where We thus obtain ( 15 ) and .
( 29 ) .
15 .
Reduction of the matrices to functions of differentiat invariants , and two fundamental matr.ices of and 6 .
On the reduction which is now introduced depends the possibility of making the subject of this paper an instrument of research into the character of the higher curves .
For every order higher than the third , there is either a possible matrix or a differential invariant , and for every order higher than the sixth there is a differential invariant .
Of the third order there is neither , and of the fourth and sixth orders there is no differential invariant .
Every function of differential coefficients can be expressed as a function of , matrices of orders 4 and 6 , and dffierential invariants , and if the function is itself a matrix it will not contain As a first step , I replace the irreducible matrices of the sixth and higher orders , by matrices of homogeneous covariants , that is , by ffinctions of the irreducible matrices which satisfy As far as the order these are the irreducible soIutions of and are ( 30 ) .
From these again we find COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
From which we find the differential invariants of orders 7 and 8 conveniently in the forms . . .
( 31 ) , which poesent the same forms as the irreducible matrices of order , and 6 .
16 .
The differential coefficients of the irreducibte matrices , and of the quantities by which they are In this section of the paper the reIations between the matrices , \amp ; c. , are being investigated for the purpose of use in the next section .
The differential coefficients of the irreducible matrices of even order are oeadily written down , and those of the matrices of odd orders with rather more difficulty .
Thus ( 32 ) . .
Expressionsfor \amp ; c. , in terms of , differential and These expressions are found consecutively by the aid of the formulae hich have been established .
Thus .
( 3$ ) .
Tn these formulae , and in their applications , it must be remembered that they imply that and are not zero at the point to which they refer .
S3 .
Correlative Forms .
18 .
deduction of the to the jiprocat of a covuriant from the equation to the origined [ The principle of duality , as applied to differenti ] invariants , is explained by HALPHEN ( p. 56 ) in his thesis .
In the case of covariants , the relation is still more interesting .
The general investigation will come Iater , but let us begin by considering the connection in its most elementary form .
Let , be the coordinates on a covariant in either point- or line-coordinates , and X , , the corresponding coordinates on the reciprocal in line- or point-coordinates .
We express the correlative transforma- tion by and inversely and being understood to stand for and .
Then we easily find , , and so on , with the inverse relationships .
These equations enable us to express any function of \amp ; c. , as an COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURyES .
valent function of \amp ; c. , and HALPHEN has shown the relationship between invariant functions .
Our concern now is with covariants and especially with matrices .
Obviously , the conditions to which a function is subject , in order that it may be a covariant function , are of the same form , whether the coordinates are point- or linecoo.rdinates , and therefore the matrix of the reciprocal of a covariant , regarded as a function of , \amp ; c. , is a solution of .
It is proposed , in the first place , to deduce the equation to the reciprocal from the equation to the original covariant , and , found in this way , the coefficient which we have called the matrix will be a function of \amp ; c. , and as a function of these quantities it will not be a solution of To find the equation which it does satisfy , we will simplify the writing by taking the point as origin , so that we may write for and for .
The equation to the covariant is a rational integral function in and Let 7 and be the corresponding coordinates on the reciprocal curve with the relation . . . . .
( [ 34 .
where the third letters which are usually inserted to make the equation homogeneous are omitted as unnecessary and , for the , mdesirable .
Following the usual course ( SALMON , 'Higher Plane Curves , ' 2nd ed. , p. 73 ) , the equation to the covariant is now made homogeneous by using this equation , and the discriminant of the resulting considered as a binary quantic in and equated to zero , is the required equation to the reciprocal .
It is not necessary that the whole of this process should be performed , for all that is necessary is to obtain the coefficient of the highest power of 7 in the resulting equation .
We obtain it by putting , and hence the coefficient of the highest of is the discriminanu of the highest group of homogeneous term in the original in binary This coefficient is , of course , found as a function of , . . .
, and when replaced by the corresponding value in terms of , it will be the matrix of the reciprocal and a solution of From the mode of formation of the coefficient of the highest power of , it appears that , as a function of , . . .
, it is an invariant for changes of Cartesian coordinates , and therefore , as has been remarked in finding the condition resulting from the.coefficient in the original homographic.transformation ( 12 ) , it will satisfy the equation Before continuing the more general consideration of this relation we will illustrate this on the general osculating conic and its reciprocal .
The terms of the highest order in the covariant conic are MR. R. F. GWYTHER ON ] DIFFERENTIAL and , therefore , the coefficient of in the xeciprocal will be , omittmg a power of and this is seen to satisfy .
On introduction of to replace , as replace , and , and omitting a power of , we obtain for the matrix of the reciprocal conic as a function of , in which form it is , of course , a solution of \mdash ; Rewritten August 2 , 1893 .
] 19 .
Duat befween the operafors The methods of solution of and , are alike , inasmuch as each depends upon a method of eduction starting from the solutions of the second and fourth orders .
The general proposition is now stated , that if be a solution of either or , in which \amp ; c. , or , what is the same thing , , \amp ; c. , are the arguments , and if in consequence of substitution for these quantities of \amp ; c. , or of \amp ; c. , becomee , then is a solution of the other corresponding equation , that is , of or As far as the first three solutions of are concerned , it is readiy verified that and become , and divided respectively by and numerical factors , where the index of the power of is the weight of the function which it affects .
If be a function of \amp ; c. , of weight and de , gree , on substitution it will become , where has the weight and degree of .
Writing and for the weight and degree of we obtain so that and .
( 35 ) .
Bearing in mind the conditions ( 18A ) for the eduction of solutions of and , it follows that processes which educe solutions of %f0 from funotions of the character of , will educe solutions of from functions of the character of , and vice versed .
As a consequence , in making a ohange from point-coorbate6 to the correlated line coordinates , or vice rersd , the operators and are interchanged .
Or , expressed COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
in terms of \amp ; c. , the coefficient of the highest power of in a contravariant is a solution of The just given is mected with the theory of eduction , but it is perhaps more simple to notice that the relation must hold not only for original coordinates , but also for the coordinates in the general homographic transformations , and hence to deduce the dual relationship from the essential principles of this paper .
That is , if we make infinitesimal homographic transformation for both , and , indicated by as in Art .
2 , then , in consequence of and Or A is replaced by ( or by ) , and by ( or by ) , while is replaced by or Hence the conditions derived from A and are interchanged , while those derived Aom remain unaltered ( Art .
6 ) .
That is and are interchanged , and is unaltered .
20 .
of the differentiat invariants , and the solutions of and to the invariants of a curve .
Differential invariants appear in the processes of eduction , that is ultimately as the result of differentiation , in three ways .
Firstly , in a series of differential invariants only ; secondly , from a series of solutions of , i.e. , a series of differential invariants change of coordinates or semi-invariants ; and thirdly , from the series which we have called matrices , which are semi-invariants in the correlated system of coordinates .
The differential equation to a curve involves differential invariants only .
If we find the series of first integrals ( in the next section I illustrate , on the cubic , the general method of finding this series ) , we may form from among them the functions of differential invariants , of semi-invariants , and of matrices which are constant along the curve .
These functions may be properly called ( each in its proper sphere , as homographic or Cartesian ) differential expressions for the invariants of the curve .
It is perhaps worthy of remark that in showing the mode of integrating the differential equation of conics , Mr. ELLIOTT* does , in fact , illustrate these methods of procedure .
S4 .
of Resutts to the Cubic .
21 .
The differential equation of the general cubic .
It has been previously shown that the order of this differential equation will be 9 , the degree 10 , and the weight 35 .
It is also a function of , and , since it is easily seen that cannot explicitly enter the equation .
Written as a determinant , the equation is \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; , From this we see that and enter only in the form Hence we have the terms Since the degree of these terms is 24 , and weight 72 , the differential invaliant when complete must be divisible by The differential equation therefore takes the form Determining and , either by the condition of containing as further factors or by comparison with the determinant , we obtain or ( 36 ) , where 22 .
The first integrals of the equation of the generat From the equation to the general cubic , found as a differential covariant , it possible to find a complete set of the first integrals of the differential equation .
For the equation to the cubic being written in the form * Nessenger of Mathematics , ' vol. 19 , p. 6 , 1889 .
Then the nine integrals take the form constant constant } ( 38 ) , constant .
( 39 ) , constant of which the last six do not contain , or To select from among these six first integrals those which are functions of the matrices only .
It is eadily proved that and forming the functional solutions of . . . . .
( 40 ) we get ( 41 ) , forms which are at once recognized as being obtained from those of the last six integlak ( 39 ) , by interchange.of the subscripts 1 and 3 of , and of and 4 , 2 and 3 of COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
Hence the functions involved in the first integrals are the solutions of a set of differential equations anaJogous to ( 40 ) , and it is the common solutions of these two of equations treated as simultaneous that we are seeking .
It is easy to prove that the number of such simultaneous utions is foul .
, and they can easily be constructed as follows:\mdash ; .
Of these can be shown to be Matrix of Hessian/ ( Matrix of General Cubic)3 .
23 .
To find the first of the to the cubic which is a differential For this purpose we are find a function of the 's which is a solution of With rather more difficulty than in the case of , we find The problem is now to find functions of the , which satisfy simultaneously and the third equation being satisfied by each of the six first integrak .
COQxcm .
The first of these equations is satisfied by and ( 43 ) .
Hence ( 44 ) , is the metion of differential invariants which gives a first of the differential equation , or in other words , is the absolute invariant of the cubic .
24 .
The general form of the matrix of a cubic .
In all cases the matrix is a function of , and the differential invariants .
In the most general case the matrix of the cubic will contain , but if we take the cubic to touch the standard curve ( which is actuaUy to be the curve itself ) , the matrix would contain only The coeffieient of will also be simply a differential invariant , and , from the nature of the operators and , the complete form is found to be with the condition which will be presently seen king the point of contact with the standard curve as temporary origin , and writing the equation we shall have matrix , as above Also ( 45 ) .
with the condition COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
We may now form the coefficient of the highest power of in the equation to the reciprocal curve .
This coefficient is to be found , as has been shown , from the discriminant of the terms of the highest degree in cubic , regarded as a binary cubic , and is From this the equation to the reciprocal curve would be developed according to the previous rules but with an interchange of the operators and .
All the quantities in the expanded coefficient are , however , soIutions of , except , and hence the degree of the reciprocal curve is indicated by the power of in the expanded expression .
25 .
The matrix of the non-sin/ ular cubic , its differential equation .
The condition of intersecting standard curve at a number of points coincident with the temporary origin is an invariantal relation , and in finding the condition we may treat the expressions as if they contained only differential invariants in their coefficients .
Thus we write the equation to the cubic and , for the consecutive points on the standard curve , putting we have ( 33 ) Equating to zero the coefficients of the several powers of , on substitutiofor and in the equation to the cubic , we get from the coefficient of and ( 46 ) .
\ldquo ; . . .
, , These are sufficienttodetermineuniquelythecoefficientsintheMRRFGWYTHERONTHEDIFFERENTIAL matrix , and from the coefficient of we derive the differential equation to the non-singular cubic :3 which becomes and is identical with that previously found in ( 36 ) .
And the matrix of the non-singular cubic is 26 .
The matrix of the to the to the cubic the temporary origin .
To find this equation , put , and form the discriminanl of th6 resulting expression in as a binary quantic .
Equating this to zero , replace .
by Since we need only the coefficient of the highest power of , the simplest method of finding it is to put in the matrix of the cubic , and form the discriminant of the resulting expression in The matrix required is or ( 47 ) , and the degree of this in denotes the number of tangents which can be drawn .
The conditions that the cubic may be nodal or cuspidal are that this matrix , as a function of , may have a linear factor twice or three times repeateA 27 .
Case of nodal cubic .
In this case we still determine uniquely all the ratios of the coefficients , except , by the condition that the coefficients of up to the seventh vanish identically , while the differential equation is found by equating the coefficient of to zero .
The further condition , to determine , is ( 47 ) that the discriminant of may vanish .
Writing or , and for , this equation becomes ; . . .
( 48 ) .
1206 .
MR. R. F. GWYTHER ON THE ERENTIAL the roots in the latter case being all real , provided 28 .
Case of cuspidal cubic .
The ratio is now to be determined from the condition , as well as Writing , we may write down the conditions from .
that obtained for , the nodal cubic , viz. , Whence , ( 53 ) , .
and the differential equation becomes . . . . .
( 54 ) .
29 .
To exemptify the use of the general forms of the equation to the cubic and of the The coordinates of the tangential of the origin are and the matrix of the polar conic of the tangential becomes Taking the general cubic this becomes and the matrix and conic)breaks up into factors , provided , since contains the factor That is , as is known , the gent at a sextactic int sses through a point of The matrix of the nodal cubic is given by COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
The biquadratic for may be vritten , an contains the factor Hence , from the equation ( 48 ) for or contains the factor , and or contains the factor , so that is a factor of the matrix The matrix of the polar conic of the tangential of the temporary origin is therefore and the tangent at a sextactic point ] pass through the point of inflexion .
Evidently there can not exist any sextactic point on the cuspidal cubic .
S5 .
Coordinates Equations .
To make it possible to use the methods of this paper to investigate the properties of the higher plane curves , it is desirable to effect some gain in brevity and lucidity without any sacrifice in generality .
This is the object of the system of invariant coordinates , which are introduced in this last section .
The matrix from which the equation to a covariant curve is developed contains , and invariant functions .
The order of the curve , in general , depends upon the mode in which and enter the matrix , and its characteristics upon the ratios between the invariant functions .
These ratios have the properties which entitle them to be regarded as the invariantal coordinates of the curve whose equation is developed from the matrix .
In especial , I shaU show that this is the case in the equation to a covariant straight line , or line of homographio persistence , and , from the consideration of such lines , arrive at a definition of invariant coordinates of a point of homographic persistence .
After showing that we obtain a dual invariant system of point and line coordinates , I ultimately develop a mode of representing a curve by an invariant equation , which will be much shorter than the covariant form of the equation which welave as yet considered .
The coordinates to the curve will be the oharaoteristic invariants of the curve , and none of the homographic peculiarities will be sacrificed by bhe abbreviation .
30 .
Introduction of invaritrdinates of a homographicalty persistent point curve , of an intrinsic invariant to such a curve .
The general equation to a covariant line takes the form where all the functions contain differential invariants only .
Such a line may be called homographically persistent with regard to the standard curve .
Tndicating a second homographically persistent line by a similar notation , but using dashed functions , we may find the coordinates of the point of intersection in the form ( 55 ) , where or , more shortly , ( 56 ) .
We may call such a point a point of homographic persistence with regard to the standard Treating as determining the position of a point , and the osition of a line , the condition that may lie on is Hence these form correIative systems of point-and line-coordinates .
If ineS ( meet in and if two points , lie on COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
If three points , ( : : lie on a straight line and so on .
define as the invariantal coordinates of the point , and as the invariantal coordinates of the line .
The condition that may lie upon a covariant curve of the order will be an invariantal relation between and the coordinates of the curve , homogeneous of the degree in It follows that if expresses this relation , it is , in this system of coordinates , the equation of the curve .
I shall call it the intrinsi invariant equation to the curve .
The coordinates of the tangent to the curve at are If lies on the tangent to the curve at then Taken with , this gives the coordinates of the points of contact of tangents from : : and , being of the degree , it represents the first polar of at : : Finding the first polar of this again , the second polar of has the equation It is unnecessary to carry this further to determine how far the ordinary methods of geometry apply to this novel of coordinates , since the character of the analogy is obvious .
31 .
The values of the at different points an the curve .
The coordinates of any point on a covariant curve were , ( 55 ) and ( 56 ) , given in the form X. MR. R. F. GWYTHER ON TBE DlrPERBNTIAL where X and have been written for and respectively .
HereX and are the variables as we pass along a curve , and \amp ; c. , are to be found from the intnnsic invariant equation to the curve which we may write The relations between and X , are of the form of a homographic transformation , and therefore any of the functions of \amp ; c. , we know to be differential invariants , will only differ from similar functions of \amp ; c. , by a factor , of which we know the form , which will contain , and It will not be possible to express the value of a differential invariant at ( X , Y ) in terms of X , and differential invariants at the origin only , unless the said differential invariant is absolute , but the invariantal coordinates of a point of homographic singularity will be found by applying the condition immediately to Obviously , if the intrinsic invariantal equation is regarded as the equation to a curve in the ordinary sense , that curve have the same homographic singularities as the covariant from which it is derived , and the coefficients in the equation are differential invariants .
Hence we are led bo the simpler method of finding the conditions for the existence of homographic singularities in terms of differential invariants , namely , the immediate application of the ordinary theory of to the intrinsic invariantal equation treated as a ternary quantic .
For this reason , the equation in this form may be regarded as the canonical form of the equation to the curve , since the coefficients are the differential iuvariants which oharacterise the I proceed to the conic and To obtain the intrinsic invariant equation , we may omit all terms which are not invariant from the coefficients in the covariant of the equation and substitute for , and or for .
I shal retain Thus , the intrinsic invariant equation to the ulating c is . . . . .
( 57 ) .
32 .
Illustrations in the case of the eu The intrinsic invariantal equation to the general non-singular cubic is ( omitting a factor containing ) ( S8 ) ; and that of its Hessian is consequently ' ' COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
211 rf lies on the tangent at the origin , , and for the tangential of the origin Henoe , 011 cubie we can have neither nor Also , on substitution in the equation to the Hessian , we obtain , or , if the tangential is a point of inflexion , the origin must be a sextactic point , as is well known .
The equation the conic of closest contact at the origin is and to the polar conic of the origin is So that is the equation to the common chord of these two conics , and it is the tangent at the tangential of the origin .
The second tangential of the origin lies on that is , lies on the common chord of the cubic and the conic of the closest contact , The coordinates of the point at which this chord meets the cubic again , or the sixth point in which the osculating conic meets the cubic , are given by and , therefore , is the equation to the line joining this point to the tangential of the origin .
The cordinates of the third tangential of the origin are given by and are indepen\amp ; nt of This point the corresidual of the eight consecutive points on each of the several cubics in which is arbitrary .
This is also a known property , but mothod allows us , with little difficulty , to prove properties of which analytical proofs are laborious .
.33 .
General method of finding the form of the intrinsic equation to a curve of any order .
It will not be necessary to pass through all the steps which I have taken in developing this theory of intrinsic invariant equations .
If we have an equation to a covariant curve , say , and if or , is the corresponding intrinsic invariant equation where X and stand for and respectively , then the relations between and X , are essentially of the character of a homographio transformation .
Hence , if for points near the origin in the covariant curve is written , and is put for , while in the intrinsic invariant equation is written where is put for X , and if \amp ; c. , are written for the invariantive portions of \amp ; c. , then differ from the values of \amp ; c. , by factors of the character which we have considered in the eavlier part of this paper .
Thus , where and stand for the expressions corresponding to those written and in ( 2 ) .
In generaI , and at the origin Therefore , , or therefore , where and , comparing with ( 33 ) , generally Hence the value which : near the origin , is to replace is . . . .
( 59 ) .
Taking the general equation of the intrinsic invariant of conics as and substituting for and , the values shown above , we find all the invariant coefficients vanish except , and thus COVARIANTS OF PLANE CURVES .
is , as before , the invariant equation of osculating conics .
So we may , without further investigation , find the similar equation for osculating cubics as we have found it above .
The equation to the osculating curve of each order will aid us in finding that of the next ; thus , the general form of a non-singular osculating quartic be The forms of the functions can be found , but they depend upon differential invariants of a higher order than those of which the values have been vestigated .

