A paper was read , entitled , " Contributions to Terrestrial Mag ?
netism , No. 2 .
" By Major Edward Sabine , R.A. , V.P.R.S. This paper is the second of a series , in which the author purposes to communicate to the Royal Society the results of magnetic observations in different parts of the globe , having for their object to supply the requisite data for deducing the numerical elements corresponding to the present epoch of the general theory of terrestrial magnetism .
It consists of two sections ; the first comprises the observations of Captain Belcher , R.N. , and the officers of H. M. S. Sul ?
phur , at twenty-nine stations on the west coast of America , and the adjacent islands , between the latitudes of 60ยง 21 ' N. and 18 ?
05 ' S. The second contains a new determination , by the same officers , of the magnetic elements at Otaheite , made in consequence of the discrepancies in the results obtained by previous observers , and of a note in M. Gauss 's Allgemeine Theory , in which Otaheite is spoken of as a highly important station for the future improvement of the cal ?
culations of the theory .
Abstracts are given of the original observations which are deposited in the Hydrographic Office of the Ad ?
miralty , as well as a full detail of the processes of reduction by which their results have been computed .
The values of the horizontal and total intensities are expressed in terms by which the results of observation are immediately comparable with the maps of MM .
Gauss and Weber in the " Atlas des Erdmagnetismus .
" By an investigation into the " probable error " of a single inde ?
pendent determination of the magnetic intensity with Hansteen 's apparatus , derived from the data furnished by Captain Belcher 's observations , the author shows the extreme improbability that the differences in the results obtained at Otaheite by Messrs. Erman , FitzRoy and Belcher , should be occasioned by instrumental or observational error .
They are also far greater than can , with any de ?
gree of probability , be ascribed to periodical or accidental variations in the magnetic force from its mean value .
The only known cause adequate to their explanation is what may with propriety be termed Station error ; that is , local disturbing influences , in an island composed chiefly of volcanic rocks , and where the spot of observation selected by the different observers may not have been precisely the same .
By a reference to the magnetic survey of the British Islands , the occurrence of station error is shown to be frequent in countries of far less decided igneous character than Otaheite ; and that its exist ?
ence may always be apprehended where rocks of that nature approach to , or rise through , the superficial soil .
The absolute determinations of fixed observatories are as liable to station error as those of the magnetic traveller , since no continuance or repetition of the observations can lead to an elimination of the error ; it consequently presents a practical difficulty to the proposed determination of the elements of the theory from exact observation at only a few selected positions on the globe .
The remedy is to be found in the combination of fixed observatories and magnetic surveys : the observations of the survey , being made in concert with , and based on those of the fixed observatory , will be furnished thereby with corrections for the se ?
cular , periodical , and accidental variations of the elements , and will consequently determine mean values : and a proper combination of the mean values thus determined , over a space sufficiently extensive to neutralize district anomalies , as well as those of a more strictly local character , will furnish , in their turn , a correction for the sta ?
tion error , if any , of the fixed observatory .

