II .
Postscript to a Paper " On the Deflection of the Plumb-line in India , caused by the Attraction of the Himalayan Mountains .
" By the Venerable Archdeacon PIATT .
Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 21 , 1859 .
( Abstract .
) Since transmitting his Paper " On the deflection of the Plumb-line in India caused by the attraction of the Himalaya Mountains* , " the author has had the advantage of seeing the pages of Major R. Strachey 's work on the physical geography of the Himalayas , now passing through the press ; and being permitted to make use of them , he availed himself of the important information therein contained to add a postscript to his former communication .
Major Strachey thinks that none of the numerous ranges commonly marked on maps of Thibet , have any special definite existence as mountain chains , apart from the general mass of the table-land ; and that this country should not be considered to be as if in the interval between the two so-called chains of the H-imalaya and Kouenlun , but that it is in reality the summit of a great protuberance , above the general level of the earth 's surface , of which the supposed Kouenlun and Himalaya are nothing more than the north and south faces , while the other ranges are but corrugations of the table-land more or less marked .
The plains of India which skirt the foot of the table-land , to an extent of 1500 miles , nowhere have an elevation exceeding 1200 feet above the sea , the average being much less ; and there is reason to think that the northern plateau of Yarkend and Khotan , like the country about Bukhara , lies at a very small elevation , probably not more than 1000 or 2000 feet above the sea , while on the borders of the Caspian the surface descends below the sea-level .
On comparing the information contained in Major Strachey 's work with the assumptions as to height above the sea-level , adopted by the author in his former paper from the best data then in his possession , it appears that the mean height of the table-land was considerably under-estimated ; while on the other hand attracting masses were supposed to lie still further north which really have no existence .
The author has not recomputed the total attraction of all the disturbing masses , but has merely given in this postscript a computation of the meridional component of the attraction of the table-land alone .
In accordance with the new information , the height of the table-land is assumed to be uniform , and to be equal to 22 miles above the level of Kaliana , that is , about 15,000 feet above the sea-level .
The resulting northern deflections are as follows : At Kaliana ... .
19t^'85 At Kalianpur ... .
10l'28 At Damargida ... .
4"29 Hence the errors produced in the astronomical amplitudes will be 9Vr57 and 5"r 99 , which much exceed the errors ( 5"'236 and -3t 791 ) brought to light by the survey , on the assumption that the ellipticity of the Indian arc is the mean ellipticity of the whole earth ; and the discrepancy will be still further increased when the attraction of the nearer masses is also taken into account .
The new information regarding the nature of the country north of the Himalayas does not , it thus appears , relieve the subject of its difficulties ; and no geodetic calculations can be of service in the problem of the figure of the earth , nor indeed in mapping the country with extreme precision , till these perplexities are removed by the deflection being found and allowed for .

