VI .
Extracts of two Letters from the Rev. EdwXard-Gregory , M. A. -Rector og -Langar , fN-6ttinghamshire : toXheS Revv Nevil Maskelyne , D. D. R R. $ .
- ; Astronomer Royal , con : !
' v. tainzgg an$Account tf Xe- ; ^ &gt; Dts-coveryfof:a Comet , -zuith Obser. .
y. .
vat ; ns thereon+Read F5ebruary *7 1793 .
Extract of the , first Letter7 dated Langar &gt; ; near Nottmghat January loth , 1793. .
, .
TROUBLE you with this lettertoc-ommunicate to you such observations as I halre made of a comet which00 I saw on fthe 8th instant .
The evening of the : 8th being very clear , I was employed in myX obseraratoryf intaking differences of right a-scension anddeclination between the:--plarlet::Venus and Aquariiwhen , happening ; to 1took towards the rlorth-west part of the:hemisphere , : I saw -a star ofy ahaz3rappearance , and about the size of { a star:of the second magnixdey u in the space between the flesure of the 3:Dragon and the foot of Her ; ... S. ; cules , lager and brighter than I lzlad 1uefore remarked in that S part of thes heavens ; which exci-ed my attention soX ttiuch , as to induce me to direct such a telescoze to it as lets in much light , and is generally used at sea to see objects in the nighte This star seemed to have a hazy antl indistinct appearance ln the telescop-en which immediately 1edL me to suspect it mlght be a comet ; but the twilight yet remaining , I was not quite certaxila of it .
: Whentllef nikht was cowlvletRy+\#162 ; ome ; on , it became evident it was a comet , the coma loeixl$ of a white lighty llazyn and ill defined.:I could perceive--no nucleus , nor as yet any appearance of atail .
I waited for , andS was -fortunate enough toobtain , an obL wrvation of its passage over thew meridi-an under the pole , at 4h 8 ' 30 " bY EARNSHAW S clock , or h 6 ' 4S " sidereal time ; its zenith-distance , by BIRDNS quadranti .
being 7.S ' 16 ' 16 ' The observation of the passage over the meridian was taker by guessing -when a hazy dim appearance , about the shape and size of:t henvs egg , was in the centre of the field of the transit instrument ; any light , however weak , effacing all the light of the:-coluet .
These observations were merely formed from the best judgment I -GOU1d make:by ; the.naked eye , for , as ' I before observed,.the ; -light of .
the comet was -so weak , as not to bear an-y degree of , light su-ffitient , to render visible the wires in : the night telescope ; which .
I have mounted .
on a -polar axis , with a proper s , ptern of wires to .
take differences of right ascension and declination .
I continued to watch the comet until three o'clock in the morling , when it had ascended toysome considerable altitude ; I could perceive with the night telescope a very faint , but yet. .
sufficiently evident tail , and that the comet had moved a few minutes to the west ; that is had increased its right ascension , and also its polaridistance .
I then obserared the cotnet with.other telescopes , of less apertfure and deeper powers S in such it appeared a confused white hazy light , nor could I perceixJe ally nucleus or tail , although it was -visible in the nightglass , , , with its direction towards the.zenith .
H ffi Irx caseX you ea , , , ,re alrea-dy apprisEd of e:-appSearance of this comet , and of course : thisz tnfbrmation is superfluous , I hope you will attribuw my givlng you this:troul301e to tmy eager desire that these extraordinary bodies may be observed with such capital instruments-as you are'-in possessionzof ; and alsc } to show you , by these attention-s , :the sense Iv entertain of the many civilities I haave received from you .
I ain , &amp;c. EDWARD GREDGORYw ... Oxthe gth I ; obtairzed a very imperfect glimpse of the comet , the twilight yet being very consideralUle , and the air v-ery hazy The co:met has moved consideralilywestward , and its polar ( li$tance , I think , is iricreased .
I thought the tail appeared rather brighterandlonger ; the coma not altered ; no nucleus to be seen This observation was 7 ex tremely imperfect , - the comet being seen with the night-glass held in my llanal- &gt; during a SPAC@ of four or five minutes ; 0 the sky , in that part , was cloudless , though most of the surrounding constellations were obscured .
Extract of the second L-etterX dated January gSth , 179tg .
THE observations of the comet were taken after ; the : folIowing manner Finding that any degree of light sufficient to render the wires visible effaced the comet , I brought it , as nearly as I could judge , into the centre of the iield without using any lightv and then cast lightvon the illu1ninator ; and in that stage of the process b@tween the comet 's disappearing and the wires bec-orning visible , I trusted to the impression left on the eye for the place of the comet when it vanished , and I think I could not err more than three or four minutes from its being on the middle horizontal wire , and about as much from the intersection of the vertical , with the middle horizontal wire .
: But , after all , it is a vain thing\ to talk of critical exactness in this matter7 either in the quadrant or transit observations , under the circomstances I am going to describe to you .
The cometn in the telescopes of these instruments , had somewhat Xthe appearance of a hen 's egg , seen obliquely , ; with the large end towards the eye ; of a dull wlaite misty light .
I could perceive no nucleus , therefore I considered the-longest diameter , which ras nearly directed towards the east , ( but there was hardly any perceivable differerlce ill the diameters ) as the line in which , had anynucleus been tvisible , it would have been found ; and I endeavollred , in the manner I have described , to bring this line on the middle horizontal wire , and the brightest part of it up to the verticaSl wire ; and when I thought I had effiected this , I read oSthe divisions on the arch , and noted the time by EARNSHAW)S regulator .
OrlJanuary 21St , I observed the instantaneous immersion of &gt; Tauri , at oh $4 22 " by my clock h and at 2h:SS 31JX I saw it -again about a minutevs distance from the moon 's enlightened limbf the moment of ernersion having-escaped observation .
I shad , on the same day , obsere7ed the suns passage over the merldian , by a mean of the wires , at 20hS o8 ' S3t/ the clock had been losing a little more than a second a day , for eight or ten weeks lRast lflhe mean of ten observations of the filrst satellite * Hence the imlnersion of the star was at 4h 34 +8"96 , azd th first sight of it aICter the emersion at 5h 43/ 46'1 , apparent time .
This may perhaps be useful in deter mfining the longitude of Mr. GREGORY^S observatory.-Note by ; Or , MASKBLR{NSO Of Jupiter place me:3 ' 47't , in time , west of Greenwich .
My latitude , deduced from a great number of observations of thesun and starsa in all the various ways of determining the latitude , with BIRDVS qUadrant , HADLEY'S quadranta and two equatorial instruments , is 52 ' $+ ' ; 7 " N. X It remains that : I relate xvhat I saw of the comet 's tail .
At l,5hastronomical time of the 8tll , or three o'clock civil time in the lnorning of the gth , I saw a very faint beam of light extending itself from the coma towards the zenith .
Wllen I brouE , ht the coma to the centre of the field of the night-glass , which takes in about 7-degrees , it reached to near the circumference of the field , consequently itamounted to about 32 degrees .
I thought itAbrighter and longer when I had a mere glimpse of the comet in the evening twilight oll the gth .
On the oth , X 1th , and 12th , the tail was rather brighter , yet very faint ; not breader than a finger , nor brighter than abeam of light let into an ill darkened room for prismatic experiments .
It extended itself beyond the circum ference , when the coma was in the centre of the night-glass perhaps a degree , consequently was 4'2 long ; it was inclined towards the east , and on the l2th pointed due east at midnight ... . .
On the Xth , the comet passedX the middle wire of the transit instrument under the pole , at 8h 2S ' O " sidereal time. .
The zenith distance was 56 ' 2/ l5 " .
I ; am7 &amp;c. EDWARD GREGORY .

