427 The Excystation of Colpoda cucull us _/ rom its Resting Cysts , and the Nature and Properties of the Cyst .
By T. Goodey , M.Sc .
( Birm .
) , late Mackinnon Student of the Royal Society .
( Communicated by A. D. Hall , F.R.S. Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read May 8 , 1913 .
) ( From the Rothamsted Experimental Station , Harpenden .
) Introduction.\#151 ; Having had occasion to make use of the resting cysts of Colpoda cucullus in the course of my work on the protozoa of the soil* I was interested by the way in which the organisms escape from the confines of the cyst membranes .
The processes involved were by no means obvious on somewhat casual observation , and it became necessary to study them in considerable detail before they could be fully elucidated .
Moreover it was thought that by working out as fully as possible the conditions involved in excystation some light might be thrown on the activity or inactivity of the protozoa in the soil .
The water-content , available food supply , and temperature of any soil are obvious external factors in determining the possibility of protozoal activity , but that these were all the determining factors was by no means clear .
There was the possibility that certain peculiar external influences were required for excystation , and if these could be determined it was possible that one would be able to say whether they were present or absent in a soil normally containing protozoa .
In studying the literature bearing on the subject it was soon evident that although a considerable amount of work had been done by earlier workers , particularly by Rhumblerf on the excystation of Colpoda and the different kinds of cysts formed by it , and by FabreJ on the properties of cyst membranes , little or no work was recorded dealing with the processes involved in the emergence of active forms from resting cysts .
I therefore set out to investigate the matter as fully as possible .
Methods.\#151 ; The experiments have been carried out in hanging-drop * Goodey , T. , 'A Contribution to our Knowledge of the Protozoa of the Soil , '5 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 165 .
t Rhumbler , L. , 'Zeitschr .
fur wissen .
Zool. , ' 1888 , vol. 46 , p. 571 .
X Fabre-Domergue , P. , " Sir les proprietes dialytiques de la membrane du Kyste des Infusoires , ' ' 'Compt .
Rend .
, ' 1885 , vol. 101 ; " Recherches anat .
et physiol , sir les Infusoires cilies , " 4 Ann. des Sci. Not .
' ( 7 s. ) , ' Zoologie , ' 1888 , vol. 5 .
Mr. T. Goodey .
The Excystation of [ Feb. 28 , preparations .
A drop of hay-infusion or other liquid medium* is taken on a loop of platinum wire and spread out on a clean cover-slip ; into the liquid is placed a number of cysts of Colpoda , and the cover-slip is then inverted over the hollow of a cavity slide and the edges waxed down by painting round with the hot wick of a candle .
It is then allowed to incubate .
In order to experiment further with the excysted organisms , the cover-slip is carefully lifted by means of a needle , and after the necessary treatment it is replaced and the edge waxed down again .
Where not otherwise stated incubation has been carried out at 30 ' C. , this being the temperature at which excystation is most rapid .
Material.\#151 ; The investigations have been principally carried out with the resting cysts of Colpoda cucullus .
A culture of this species , of a particular strain measuring about 45 / i in length and having a rather pointed anterior end , was obtained free from any other ciliated protozoa .
By making subcultures of this from time to time in sterile 1-per-cent , hay-infusion , and allowing the Colpoda to go on multiplying and encyst , quantities of resting cysts were obtained .
For convenience the cysts were collected on small filter papers and kept in an air-tight glass dish .
A quantity of cysts of a larger strain of Colpoda cucullus was also obtained , but these did not prove to be so convenient for manipulation as the smaller strain .
It was found that if the cysts were kept for some weeks on the filter paper in a quite dry condition , their power of excysting rapidly was considerably diminished .
Excystation was most rapid in the case of cultures made from cysts recently filtered and almost air dried .
Influence of Temperature on Rate of Excystation.\#151 ; Hanging-drop cultures were made with cysts in hay-infusion and put into incubators at different temperatures , 40 ' , 30 ' , 25 ' , and 20 ' G. The cysts were all from the same collection and the hay-infusion from the same stock solution , so that conditions were all similar , except for temperature .
The results were as follows :\#151 ; 40 ' C. , none excysted after several hours .
30 ' C. , many active after 1 hour incubation .
25 ' C. , a few active after 1 hour 17 minutes .
20 ' C. , a few active after 2 hours 12 minutes .
It is evident that differences in temperature have a considerable influence on the rate of excystation .
It was not possible to determine exactly the * Distilled water , tap-water , and aqueous soil-extract were used at different times .
Excystation takes place quite freely in distilled water .
1913 .
] Colpoda cucullus from its Resting Cysts .
429 optimum temperature for excystation , owing to there being no incubators at other temperatures , but it lies close to 30 ' C. Meunier* obtained active Colpoda two hours after moistening resting cysts , and Fabref also obtained active forms in the same time .
Influence of Alkaline , Acid , and Neutral Media on Excystation.\#151 ; The ordinary 1-per-cent , hay-infusion used for cultures of Colpoda and other protozoa is made slightly alkaline in reaction to litmus by the addition of caustic soda solution and contains 0*01 per cent. NaOH .
Colpoda cucullus excysts very freely in this liquid and also in neutral 1-per-cent , hay-infusion .
When , however , the hay-infusion was made slightly acid in reaction to litmus , excystation appeared to be completely inhibited , and from these preliminary trials the inference was tentatively drawn , that excystation was inhibited in an acid medium .
It was necessary , however , to determine more accurately the critical percentage strength of acid and alkali at which excystation is inhibited .
NaOH.\#151 ; 1-per-cent , hay-infusion was put up in 10 c.c. lots , each with a different percentage strength of NaOH , starting at 0*01 per cent , and going up in hundredths of 1 c.c. to 0*2 per cent. Excystation was rapid and free in all the cultures below 015 per cent. NaOH .
At this strength , however , only a few were active after two hours ' incubation and these were apparently rather uncomfortable .
At 016 per cent , one or two were trying to excyst , 017 per cent , showed one or two revolving within their endoeysts but unable to get out quickly , at 018 per cent , there was no motion , though the contractile vacuoles in one or two were dilated , 019 per cent , gave the same appearance as 018 per cent. , and at 0*2 per cent , there was no indication whatever of excystation .
After 21 hours ' incubation active forms w^ere found in all , up to and including 018 per cent , and 019 per cent. , but none were active in 0*2 per cent. This then is the critical percentage strength of NaOH which inhibits excystation , whilst 018 per cent , may be taken as the critical strength for short-period incubation .
HC1.\#151 ; For hydrochloric acid a number of 10 c.c. lots of 1-per-cent , hay-infusion were put up , each with a different percentage strength of HCL starting at 0*001 per cent , and going up to 0*01 per cent , in thousandths of 1 c.c. and then in hundredths of 1 c.c. up to 0*1 per cent. After one hour 's incubation at 30 ' C. there were many active in all the cultures up to 0*01 per cent. At 0*08 per cent , there were a few active , * Meunier , V. , " Sir la resistance vit .
des Kolpodes ' encyst^s , ' " 1 Count .
Rend .
, ' 1865 , vol. 61 .
t Fabre-Domergue , P. , loc. cit. Mr. T. Goodey .
The Excystation of [ Feb. 28 , at 0'09 per cent , only one or two , and at 0*1 per cent , none were active ; 0'1-per-cent .
HC1 is then the critical strength which inhibits excystation .
Colpoda excystation can therefore take place within fairly wide limits in an alkaliue medium containing 0*18 per cent , or 019 per cent. NaOH and in the presence of 0*09 per cent. HC1 .
Tests for the Nature of the Edo- and Endo-cysts .
Fabre found that the ectocysts of resting cysts could withstand the action of concentrated sulphuric acid for a long time , and also caustic potash solution .
He failed to obtain a cellulose reaction with iodine and sulphuric acid , whereas Stein obtained a wine-red coloration in this manner with Vorticella microstoma , and believed that the cyst-membranes of this organism were composed of a substance combined with cellulose , which could be dissolved out by the action of caustic potash .
In the course of the present investigation the following tests have been applied in order to determine the nature and characteristics of the ectocyst and endocyst membranes of Colpoda cucullus . .
Solubility in Water.\#151 ; Both ectocyst and endocyst are insoluble in cold water and in water or 1-per-cent , hay-infusion at 95-100 ' C. Acids.\#151 ; Sulphuric acid , strong , does not affect either ectocyst or endocyst in the cold .
Acetic acid , 90 per cent. , has no action on ectocyst or endocyst in the cold .
Hydrochloric acid , strong and cold , causes the ectocyst to swell up slightly , but does not dissolve the endocyst .
On gradually heating up cultures containing ectocysts and endocysts with 2-per-cent , hydrochloric acid , and keeping the temperature at about 97 ' C. for half an hour , the endocysts disappeared , whilst the ectocysts remained somewhat swollen .
Alkalies.\#151 ; Caustic soda : 1 per cent. , 2 per cent. , and 4 per cent , do not dissolve ectocysts or endocysts in the cold , though they penetrate freely into the endocysts and attack the Colpoda within , causing them to swell up and become transparent .
At 30 ' C. , 1 per cent , and 2 per cent , still do not attack the endocyst membrane , though 4 per cent , causes its solution at this temperature .
Twenty-per-cent , caustic soda , acting in the cold , causes the ectocyst to swell up considerably and become transparent , though there still remain indications of the layers making up this membrane .
Caustic potash : 1 per cent , and 2 per cent , do not dissolve ectocysts or endocysts in the cold .
Fat Solvents : Alcohol , 95 per cent. , ether , toluene , and chloroform do not dissolve the ectocyst or endocyst when added to a culture which has been exposed to the action of osmic vapour for a few seconds in order to kill the active and excysting organisms .
1913 .
] Colpoda cucullus from its Resting Cysts .
431 Formalin : 40-per-cent , formalin does not dissolve either ectocyst or endocyst in the cold .
Prowazek* mentions that Kutscher found paramylum was soluble in formalin .
Protein Tests.\#151 ; Xanthoproteic test : cultures containing ectocysts and endocysts were carefully heated with concentrated nitric acid and then ammonia was added , but no coloration resulted .
Millon 's reagent was used on two or three occasions , but there was no red coloration of the cyst-membranes , though by this method protein was detected in the protoplasm of Colpoda by the brick-red coloration .
Starch and .
Cellulose Tests.\#151 ; Iodine in potassium iodide solution does not stain ectocysts or endocysts , though it passes through the latter very readily and stains the Colpoda light brown .
Preparations treated with iodine are not affected when strong sulphuric acid is added .
Ammoniacal cupric hydrate does not dissolve either ectocyst or endocyst .
Corallin soda solution does not stain the endocyst pink .
These negative reactions show that the cyst-membranes are not composed of starch or cellulose .
The following carbohydrates occur in certain protozoa:\#151 ; Glycogenf has been observed in a number of ciliated protozoa , Opalina , Paramcecium , and Vorticella .
It stains light or reddish brown with iodine .
Paraglycogenf occurs as refractive spherules in certain of the Sporozoa .
With iodine it stains brown , which changes to wine-red or violet on the addition of 70 per cent , sulphuric acid .
It is soluble in hot water .
ParamylumS is a carbohydrate nearly related to cellulose .
As prepared from Euglena viridis by Biitschli it did not stain with iodine in potassium iodide solution nor was it affected by the addition of 70-per-cent , sulphuric acid .
It is insoluble in cold and hot water and is hydrolysed by continued boiling with strong sulphuric acid .
It is evident that the cyst membranes of Colpoda are not composed of glycogen or paraglycogen .
They resemble paramylum in their reactions to iodine and in the fact that the endocyst disappears on being heated up with acid .
It will be shown later on , however , that they are not composed of paramylum .
Reactions to Staim.\#151 ; The following substances were tried in order to determine what staining reactions are given by the cyst-membranes :\#151 ; Picric acid , a strong aqueous solution : membranes not stained .
* Prowazek , S. von,4 Einfiihrung in die Physiologie der Einzelligen ( Protozoen)/ Berlin , 1910 , p. 13 .
t Prowazek , S. von , loc. cit. ; Biitschli , 0 .
, loc. cit. , pp. 1469-72 .
+ Biitschli , O. , loc. cit. , pp. 1469-72 ; Minchin , E. A. , 44 The Sporozoa , " 4 A Treatise on Zoology/ Pt. 1 , 2nd Fas .
, 1903 , p. 182 .
S Biitschli , O. , 44 Kenntniss des Paramylons , " 'Arch , ftir Protist./ 1906 , vol. 7 , p. 199 .
432 Mr. T. Goodey .
The Excystation of [ Feb. 28 , Methyl green , saturated aqueous solution + 1 per cent , acetic acid : membranes not stained , contents of endocyst immediately stained .
Iodine green : same result as with methyl green .
Safranin , strong aqueous solution : membranes not stained , cyst contents freely stained .
Gentian violet , strong aqueous solution : membrane not stained , cyst contents stained .
Eosin , strong aqueous solution : membranes not stained , cyst contents stained .
Carbol fuchsin , the strong bacteria stain : membranes not stained , contents of endocyst stained deep red .
Hsematoxylin ( Heidenhain 's ) : film-preparations made by hatching out Colpoda in 1-per-cent , hay-infusion + egg white and killing the excysting forms with osmic vapour , were stained with iron hsematoxylin .
The ectocysts stained dark blue or purple ; the endocysts stained the same tint but not so intensely .
Hsematoxylin ( Delafield s ) : in films prepared as for Heidenhain 's , but stained with this preparation , the ectocysts stained purple , the endocysts a pale reddish or bluish purple .
From these records it will be seen that only the haematoxylin stains touch the cyst-membranes .
This is interesting , for Fabre considered that many aniline stains affected the cyst-membranes of ciliates .
The Nature of the Process of Excystation.\#151 ; Biitschli* says that little is known on the manner in which the cyst-contents are reorganised prior to excystation .
No doubt water penetrates into the interior causing the organism to swell up and the contractile vacuole to begin pulsating .
The cilia reorganise themselves , but how they do so is not accurately known .
The imbibition of water doubtless plays an important part in the rupturing of the ectocyst .
He also suggests that instead of Colpoda escaping from the temporary division-cysts through the narrow aperture , they may perhaps have the power of dissolving the membrane in a particular place .
Many observers have recorded the fact that the ectocyst is caused to rupture , as Biitschli suggests , by the increased volume of the cyst contents owing to the imbibition of water .
The exact manner , however , in which the organism manages to get out of the endocyst does not appear to have been determined .
It is on this interesting point that the present investigation throws light .
In carefully watching the movements of Colpoda within the transparent endocyst , it is noticed that the organism rotates freely and that the endocyst gradually increases in diameter ; the wall becomes thinner and thinner until , * Biitschli , O. , 4 Bronn 's Klassen des Thierreichs/ 44 Protozoa , " Abt .
Ill , p. 1664 .
1913 .
] Colpoda cucullus from its Resting Cysts .
433 finally , it becomes invisible , at which time the Colpoda swims away .
The whole process only occupies from 5 to 10 minutes , when incubation has taken place at 30 ' C. It seems as if the endocyst is gradually dissolved or digested so that the enclosed organism may be liberated .
In order to determine as far as possible the nature of the process , the following methods were adopted :\#151 ; Killing Excysting Colpoda with Different Reagents.\#151 ; Hanging-drop cultures were made in the usual way , and when there were several Colpoda rotating within their endocysts the cover-slips were lifted and the cultures exposed for a short time to the action of the vapour of some particular reagent capable of killing the organisms already liberated and those still excysting .
The cover-slips were then waxed to the slides again .
When volatile antiseptics were used , such as xylene , toluene , chloroform , and carbon disulphide , the organisms were killed within 30 seconds , and then it was observed that the endocyst still continued to increase in diameter , the wall becoming gradually thinner and thinner until finally it disappeared .
This was determined accurately by taking measurements of the endocyst at different times with an eye-piece micrometer .
In some cases the endocyst disappeared in the course of 10 to 15 minutes , and in other cases after the lapse of a few hours .
When osmic vapour and vapour of 40 per cent , formalin were used the Colpoda were killed in a few seconds .
It was then noticed that the endocysts did not continue to swell up and disappear , but remained exactly as they were , in diameter of cyst and in thickness of wall , at the moment of killing .
There was no alteration even after 24 hours .
This interesting difference between the effect of volatile antiseptics and osmic acid and formalin vapour indicates that the process of excystation from the endocyst is normally effected by the secretion of a solvent or digestive ferment .
The antiseptics , toluene , chloroform , etc. , kill the excysting organisms but not the enzyme which it is secreting , and thus the Mr. T. Goodey .
The Excystation of [ Feb. 28 , process of endocyst-digestion continues .
On the other hand , formalin and osmic acid vapour kill the organism and also the secreted enzyme , hence the digestion of the endocyst is stopped .
After the organism has been killed by a volatile antiseptic the further digestion of the endocyst is not so rapid as when the organism is actively swimming about within , but this may be due to the fact that normally an excysting Colpoda has a considerable mechanical effect upon the thin endocyst wall as it swims about , no doubt aiding in its more rapid destruction .
Tests on Soluble Starch.\#151 ; In order to test the effect of the enzyme secreted by Colpoda on soluble starch an agar medium was made in the following-proportions\#151 ; 100 c.e. 0*05-per-cent .
solution of soluble starch , agar-agar 0*8 grm. Two sterile Petri dishes were poured with this medium , and each was inoculated with cysts of Colpoda which had been well teased out in sterile distilled water .
There were ten or twelve areas of inoculation on each plate , each about 3 mm. in diameter .
After incubating at 30 ' C. for an hour and a quarter , active and excysting Colpoda were found on many of the inoculated areas .
One or two Colpoda were seen to emerge from their digested endocysts , and at these spots traces of iodine in potassium iodide solution were added .
A uniform blue coloration resulted over the whole of the region ; there were no clear uncoloured zones in the region of the digested endocysts .
As controls , traces of the iodine in potassium iodide solution were added in close proximity to the inoculated areas .
These gave exactly the same tone of blue as in the areas where Colpoda had excysted .
It is evident therefore that the enzyme secreted by Colpoda during excystation is not capable of digesting soluble starch .
Tests for the Digestibility of the Endocyst by Different Ferments.\#151 ; Having determined that the endocyst is digested by enzymic activity , it was deemed advisable to test the digestive powers of pepsin and trypsin upon it .
Hanging-drop cultures were made in the usual way with resting cysts and the excysting organisms were killed at the proper moment with osmic acid vapour .
Two or three cultures were then supplied with a platinum loop or two of 0'04-per-cent .
pepsin in 0'2-per-cent .
hydrochloric acid , * and two or three supplied with an equal quantity of 0'04-per-cent , trypsin in 0*5-per-cent .
caustic soda solution .
All the cultures were then waxed down again and put into the incubator at 40 ' C. Examinations were made at different times to ascertain the effect of the * The pepsin and trypsin were made at this strength according to the instructions in Hoppe-Seyler 's 'Handbuch der Physiol , und Pathol .
Chemisch .
Analyse , ' 7th Edit .
, 1903 .
1913 .
] Colpoda cucullus from its Resting Cysts .
435 ferment , but in no case was the endocyst digested either by pepsin or trypsin even after remaining for several days at 40 ' C. Pepsin had the effect of turning the Colpoda almost black , whether they were free or enclosed within the endocysts .
Trypsin on the other hand gradually digested the Colpoda already free and those within the endocysts , rendering them very transparent and causing complete solution and digestion of all the organism except certain very refractive granules .
These two digestive ferments were tried on many occasions but at no time were they found to attack the endocyst .
Diastase.\#151 ; The diastase used was prepared from fresh pale-barley malt by the method described by O'Sullivan.* According to Brown and Escombe , f diastase acts best in very dilute acid solutions and they recommend 0*006-per-cent .
formic acid .
The diastase used was therefore dissolved in formic acid of this strength .
One lot was heated up in a water bath at 62-65 ' C. for about 20 minutes in order to kill off any cytase which might be present .
Two solutions of diastase were thus obtained , one heated and the other unheated .
Hanging-drop cultures were made and the excysting Colpoda killed with osmic vapour .
One or two platinum loops of the diastase solutions were added and then the cover-slips were waxed down again and the culture put into the incubator at 40 ' C. Twenty-four hours after the addition of the diastase no endocysts could be found even after careful search ; they had all been digested , both by the heated and the unheated diastase .
Similar results were obtained by repeating the experiment on other occasions .
Ptyalin.\#151 ; Saliva was collected and diluted slightly with distilled water .
It was then filtered and a small crystal or two of thymol added to prevent putrefaction .
A platinum loop or two of the filtered liquid was added to hanging-drop cultures , which were then allowed to incubate at 40 ' C. When perfectly fresh saliva was used the endocysts were digested somewhat slowly , i.e. in 48 hours .
Some of the cultures made did not show the digestive action , whilst others did .
It is possible that a certain amount of change must first be effected by the enzyme secreted by the Colpoda within , before ptyalin can act on the endocyst .
The digestive powers of this ferment on the endocyst are therefore uncertain .
From these experiments it is evident that the endocyst consists of a substance which is not digested by pepsin or trypsin , but which is * O'Sullivan , C. , 4 Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1884 , vol. 45 , p. 2 .
t Brown and Escombe , 44 On the Depletion of Hordeum vulgar during Germination , " 4 Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' 1898 , vol. 63 .
Mr. T. Goodey .
The Excystation of [ Feb. 28 , completely digested by diastase and in some cases by ptyalin .
It is therefore highly probable that this endocyst material is of a carbohydrate nature .
This raises a point of considerable interest , for the endocyst was digested by the heated as well as by the unheated diastase , thus showing that the seat of the enzymic activity was not confined to any cytase which might have been present in the diastase as an impurity.* Diastase is generally considered to act only upon starch and glycogen .
The substance under consideration is certainly neither starch nor glycogen and yet it is digested by diastase .
In this respect also it differs from paramylum , which is untouched by diastase .
Paraglycogen is soluble in hot water , and the solution is hydrolysed into dextrin and a trace of reducing sugar , thus differing from glycogen , which yields dextrin and plenty of reducing sugar when hydrolysed with the salivary ferment .
It is because of this difference that Biitschlif called it paraglycogen .
Since diastase digested the endocyst , chemical tests for carbohydrates were sought .
Attempts were made to obtain an osazone from the liquid in which Colpoda had been caused to excyst , after proper treatment with sodium acetate and phenyl-hydrazine hydrochloride solutions , but only negative results were obtained .
It was concluded that the carbohydrate produced by the digestion of the endocyst was present in far too small a quantity to be detected by this method .
Colour Reactions for the Detection of Carbohydrates.\#151 ; A method^ was found by which dextrose , lactose , saccharose , starch , and cellulose , when heated up with strong hydrochloric acid and scatole , yield a violet coloration , the reaction still showing at a dilution of 1 : 300,000 .
Fifteen grains of scatole were obtained , and tests were made with dextrose , starch , lactose , saccharose , cellulose , and hay-infusion , by heating them in test-tubes with strong hydrochloric acid and small quantities of scatole .
In all cases a violet coloration of the liquid resulted , even when dextrose diluted 1 : 300,000 was used .
Hay-infusion could not , therefore , be used for the excystation of Colpoda from cysts in this experiment .
Cultures were therefore made in distilled water containing OOl-per-cent , caustic soda , this being the percentage of alkali in the hay-infusion commonly * Occasionally one or two fibres of cellulose from the filter paper on which the cysts had been collected were introduced into the hanging drops along with the cysts .
These fibres never showed signs of corrosion or solution , thus showing the freedom of the diastase from cytase .
t Loc .
cit. , p. 1484 .
f 'Jour .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1907 , vol. 92 , Pt. 2 , Abst .
, p. 308 ( " Colour Reactions of Carbohydrates with Indole and Scatole " ) .
1913 .
] Colpoda cucullus from its Resting Cysts .
437 used .
The object of the experiment was to obtain a colour reaction for the presence of a carbohydrate in the culture-liquid containing the products of the digestion of the endocysts by the enzyme secreted by the Colpoda .
The cultures wTere made in the hollows of cavity slides , and the cysts of the large variety of Colpoda cucullus were used .
After a large number of organisms had become active , the cultures were unsealed , and the liquid was taken up in a capillary pipette and transferred to a small glass tube .
This liquid was practically free from ectocyst membranes , though it is possible there may have been a few present , for it was impossible to examine the liquid under the microscope .
There may also have been one or two fine threads of cellulose present from the filter paper on which the cysts had been collected from the original culture of Colpoda .
To the liquid was added an equal volume of strong hydrochloric acid , and the mixture was boiled for half an hour on the water-bath , in order to hydrolyse any maltose present to dextrose .
A little scatole was added and a drop or two more of strong hydrochloric acid .
On gently heating this mixture over the Bunsen flame a pale purple coloration resulted , indicating the presence of a carbohydrate in the liquid .
On heating up some of the original culture-liquid , i.e. distilled water containing 0*01 per cent , caustic soda , with strong hydrochloric acid and scatole , no coloration was obtained , nor was any coloration produced when distilled water alone was tested in this way .
The liquid , then , which had been used for the excystation of Colpoda clearly contained a carbohydrate .
That the carbohydrate was there as a product of the digestion of the endocyst of Colpoda cannot be definitely asserted , since there may have been present in the liquid a trace of cellulose , or ectocyst membrane .
Whether this supposed cellulose and ectocyst would be sufficient to account for the coloration produced cannot be stated , but I consider it negligible , and think it does not vitiate the result of the test .
No special emphasis , however , is laid on this test as an indication of the carbohydrate character of the endocyst .
The fact that it is digested by diastase and fails to show any reactions to protein and other tests is sufficient to show that it is a true carbohydrate .
Note on the Endocyst of Gastrostyla steinii .
A few cultures were made with the resting cysts of Gastrostyla steinii , and several active organisms were found after three hours ' incubation at 30 ' C. There appear to be ectocysts and endocysts in the resting cysts of this organism as in Colpoda .
The process of excystation is slower than in Colpoda cucullus , and many Mr. T. Goodey .
The Excystation of [ Feb. 28 , organisms appear to rotate and cause digestion of the endocyst whilst still within the confines of the ectocyst , afterwards making their exit from the latter by forcing their way through a rupture in the wall .
Some free endocysts were tested with iodine in potassium iodide solution but they did not stain , nor was any alteration in colour or shape effected by the addition of 70-per-cent , sulphuric acid to the preparation .
This indicates that the endocyst of Gastrostyla steinii is in all probability of the same nature as that of Colpoda cucullus .
Note on the Initial Stages of Encystation in Colpoda cucullus .
On examining a hanging-drop culture in which Colpoda had been active for two days many organisms were found to be encysting , probably commencing to form resting cysts , since there was not an abundance of food .
An opportunity therefore presented itself for the study of the earliest stages of encystation .
Whilst examining under the oil-immersion a group of three rounded Colpoda which were revolving , each within a limiting membrane , a free-swimming Colpoda came into the field .
It did not move away but began to revolve , the cilia moved very violently , and the organism began to lose its characteristic form and outline and became more rounded .
It appeared as though in this initial stage of encystation some jelly-like substance or mucilage were exuded from the ectoplasm , and that because of this the cilia had great difficulty in moving .
They seemed to move in bunches which gave the appearance of waves on the surface of the organism .
Shortly after this there was a definite limiting membrane within which the organism was revolving , clearly propelled by means of its cilia , which were easily visible under the oil-immersion .
This is in accord with Rhumbler 's observations .
He watched the formation of the cyst membranes in division cysts and resting cysts of Colpoda , and was convinced that rotation within the cyst was due to ciliary activity .
Summary and Conclusions .
1 .
The cyst membranes of Colpoda cucullus consist of the outer ectocyst and the inner endocyst .
The ectocyst is insoluble in strong acids , gives no reaction with iodine and strong sulphuric acid , only stains with haematoxylin , is insoluble in alcohol and ether , and is only dissolved by 20-per-cent , caustic soda .
In all these properties except the absence of any reaction to iodine , it resembles the outer cyst wall of Euglena viridis , investigated by Biitschli , which is composed of a nitrogen-free carbohydrate compound .
2 .
The endocyst is composed of a transparent substance which is insoluble 1913 .
] Colpoda cucullus from its Resting Cysts .
in cold or hot water , strong acids , fat solvents like alcohol and ether .
It is soluble in 4-per-cent , caustic soda at 30 ' C. , and fails to give any reaction with iodine and strong sulphuric acid .
It is not digested by pepsin or trypsin but is completely digested by diastase acting at 40 ' C. , and is sometimes slowly digested by the salivary ferment , ptyalin , also at 40 ' C. It is thus of a carbohydrate nature but differs from all other carbohydrates which have been found in the protoplasm or secreted by the protoplasm of protozoa .
It seems to consist of a substance allied to glycogen , paraglycogen and paramylum .
The name Cystose is proposed for it .
There is evideuce to show that the endocyst of Gastrostyla steinii is composed of a similar substance .
3 .
During the normal process of excystation the endocyst is set free by the rupture of the ectocyst and the Colpoda liberates itself by the rapid digestion of the endocyst by means of a powerful enzyme which it secretes .
This enzyme is put out of action by killing the excysting organisms with formalin or osmic acid vapour , but continues to act on the endocyst when the organisms are killed with toluene , ether , chloroform or carbon bisulphide vapours .
It can act when the medium surrounding the cyst contains 0T9 per cent , of caustic soda on the one hand and 009 per cent , of hydrochloric acid on the other , and may therefore be said to act in alkaline , neutral and acid media .
It cannot act at 40 ' C. , since excystation is inhibited at this temperature , but it appears to act best at 30 ' C. In these respects it is remarkable and differs strikingly from diastase , the activity of which is retained even as high as 68 ' C. , but is entirely checked in the presence of less than 0*04 per cent , of caustic soda .
A further point of difference from diastase is found in the fact that the new enzyme fails to digest soluble starch .
The name Cystase is proposed for it .
General Conclusions.\#151 ; The endocyst membrane of Colpoda , and probably of other ciliated protozoa forming double-walled resting cysts , is composed of a carbohydrate which is different from all carbohydrates previously described .
To this substance the name " Cystose " is given .
During the process of excystation the endocyst is digested by a powerful enzyme secreted by the enclosed Colpoda .
The name " Cystase " is proposed for this ferment .
My best thanks are due to the Laws Agricultural Trust for allowing me to carry on the work at this Laboratory .
I am also indebted to various members of the Laboratory staff and other friends for helpful suggestions , particularly to Mr. W. A. Davis , Organic Chemist here , for suggesting the names " Cystose " and " Cystase .
"

