]\gt ; ' Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
281 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , csidcnt , in the Chair .
The following communicittions were read:\mdash ; I. " " On Lincar Differential Equations.\mdash ; No. Iy By W. II .
F.R.S. Received Novcmbcr 17 , 18 I will now consider some interesting results iu deiinit from the tiou of linear differential cquations .
Let us first consider the linear dilferential eqution lvherc Let where nits a to be detcrmined .
Substituting equation , the usual method , we Now lct we shall have where the limits , by tlIc We have , from the above , 282 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Hence the differential equation becomcs [ Fcb .
2 , The of this equntion will be as follows:\mdash ; where , . . .
, . . .
constants to bc detcrmi11ed ; Now lct be negative , and 7 essenti ] ] positive .
Then , since cannot vays go on incrcasing , ; : the constants , I3 , , . . .
, hcrc one of them is known , ) delerby the cntial etion But they better determined in he .
We may any loss of gen lity , put .
In this case we shall 1 If iu 1871 .
] Linear Differential Equations .
crcutiating t putting ; so moy ) rocced .
The integral is thus ) tcly deft'l1lined .
A proccss will us the more general nhere is cssentially uegative , tialIy The same ] ) OCCSS 1 ill hold good nhen , , , . . . .
fr is anireSt that the integral ; where , simil cxpression for R. Now , increases without , the series ccnvergcs ; for since is arbi , lbe ratio of be as ns please , howerer great becomes .
IIcnce , ) incrcases ithout limit , the series ) chcs zero .
eforc , as we cuppose positive , ill increase ithout limit ; and is posed multiplied by an arbitrnry const must Hcnce the ilue of the tegr where , . . .
ctionnl 1 also be being negave , and the iu $]s befo ] Next , consider the integral nhcre is ) , Ilti less 111 * lt is : herc to cmind the reader tho does not hold good when is ncgative .
284 Mr. W. H. .
Russell on Linear Diferential Equations .
[ Feb. ntially negative .
Then the integral will satisfy the differential equation We hcre suppose fractional , and positive and elitire .
solution of the differential equation will be where and are rational and entire functions of the orders and respcctively , and functions of , which it will be needless to vrite .
The integral will consequently be equal to this } ) ression when the rbitrary constants are properly determined .
The integral cannot go on incrcasing as , supposed negative , increases .
Hence and , an1 the becomes , \amp ; c. are constauts to be determined .
We find , before , \amp ; c. \amp ; c. And the integral is completely known .
I will vow consider the differential equation It is easily seen th this equation is tisfied by the The solution of the differential equation is ; these must be equivalcnt .
If we put for in this eqnation , we easily see that ; hence the integral is unchanged if is put for , and therefore Measuremcrds of Specific Induclive Capacity of Dielectrics .
285 Hence ; putting Integr{ting this equ tion , and choosing ; nbitrnry } so may vanish when is infinite , Hence we shall have ' which last is cxceedingly wcll .
It is that we reduce the intcgrnl ) to this by method of fractions .
In concluding this pnper , I desiro to cxpress the I am undel to , pitzer 's ' Studien .
' II .
" " Measurcments of Specific Inducve apacity of Diclectrics , in the Physical Laboratory of the sity of \ldquo ; By JOHN C. GIBSON , , and municated by TIIOMSON .
Novclnbcl 23 , 1@70 .
( Abstr ) This paper describes the instruments proccsses employed in a serics of experiments on the specific inducve capacity of ) rnffinc , the cffect upon it of variations of .
The instruments descril ) the platymeter and the sliding condenscr .
former of theso , in rudimcntary form , shown to the thematical and PhysicaI Section of British Association at its Glasgow Meeting in , by W. Thomson .
It consists of two equ and similar condensers employed for the count ) rison of electrostatic capacitics .
The sliding nser is a condenser the capacity of which may be varied by known quantities by aItcring the cffective arett of the opposed surfaces .
By mea11s of these two instruments , along the quadrant electrometer , the capacity of condenser bc detcrmined by the sliding condenser to it .
The method of the electrical actions upon which it depends , are described in .
Ill

