III .
A relation of the cutting an Ivory Bodkin out of the Bladder of a young Woman in Dublin , by Mr Proby ; communicated by Dr Thomas Molyneux , F. R. S. DOrcas Blake , a full bodied sanguine Maid , of about twenty years old , whilst in her Fathers house , in Fishamble-street , Dublin , was much troubled with an hoarseness last winter , for which she was desirous to take a Vomit ; but her Friends not consenting to it , she endeavoured to provoke one , by thrusting her finger into her throat on the fifth of January , 1694 .
which not answering her desires , she drew an Ivory Bodkin of four inches long out of her hair , and thrust the small end forward into her Throat , upon which she heaved so often as put her out of breath , and obliged her to stand upright to draw some air , which she did without taking the Bodkin out of her Throat , and at that instant it slipped out of her fingers , and passed into her stomach .
The accident put her into some fright , but that soon went off again , because she found no immediate inconvenience .
However , the reflections she made thereon , kept her awake that night .
The next day which was Sunday , the sixth of January , 1694/ 5 .
about noon , she felt a sharp pricking pain in the right side of her Belly , lower than the Navel .
However , she got out of bed , and walked a little about : Towards Evening she felt the pain nearer her right Groin than before , which hindred her from walking , and obligd her to betake herself again to her bed , where she lay restless all that night , by reason of the excessive pain .
On Monday in the Afternoon one Mrs M ` Guennis , a Midwife , dwelling at the Lamb in Fishamble-street , searched her , and said she felt the end of the Bodkin , but thought it was in a Gut .
The next day one Mrs Taylor another Midwife , living the next door to the Bunch of Keys in St Brides-street , searched her also , who said she felt the Bodkin ; but the poor woman being unsatisfied with the Midwife 's account , sent for me to her that night : In searching her by the Anus I could not find it , but putting my Finger into the Vagina Uteri , I felt the Bodkin ; and because she complained of a difficulty in voiding her Urine , I made use of my Catheter , and felt it , as I conceive , in the Bladder ; but immediately trying a second time , I could not find it , which made me dubious for some time what to do .
Within a fortnight after , in the presence of Doctor John Madden , the very worthy President of the King and Queen 's Royal College of Physicians in Ireland , and Doctor Thomas Molyneux , a Fellow of that Society I did convey a Catheter into her Bladder , where the Bodkin was at that time very plainly to be felt .
She then had as well as all the time , such an excessive pricking pain at voiding her Urine , that she was often constrained to hold it much longer than she would , which made her earnest that the Bodkin should be brought away at any rate ; whereupon I resolved to endeavourto extract it after the same manner , as I doStones fromWomen ; and accordingly ( her Body being duly prepared for the operation ) about ten days after , the aforenam 'd Physicians being present , I did attempt the extraction , having introduced my Forceps into the neck of the Bladder , I very readily took hold of the Bodkin , but could not move it .
I then passed in my Finger thro the dilatation into the Bladder , and tried to bring the whole Bodkin into the Bladder , but could not ; nor could I turn it one way or another , but round like a Spindle .
I often seized it with my Forceps , but found it impossible to remove it by reason of the position , which was the smaller end , resting upon the inside of the 1schium ( as I imagine ) which probably occasioned her halting .
Finding all my attempts to be fruitless , I despaired ever to effect it this way , which made me desist from farther trial for some time : but now the weather being more favourable , and her pains increasing , notwithstanding that she was frequently informed of the danger of the operation , by the Physicians and me , yet by her daily importunity , I was prevailed upon to attempt the extracting of it in the manner of the higher operation for the Stone , which was as follows .
Doctor Madden , Doctor Molyneux , and Doctor Smith , Fellows of the aforesaid College , being present , having placed her in a convenient posture , I put my Finger into the Vagina Uteri , and felt the Bodkin lying close to it on the outside , whilst I held my Finger there I pressed with my left hand above the Os Pubis , where I felt the head or thickest end of the Bodkin .
I then removed my Right hand , and desired Doctor Smith to put his Finger into the Vagina , as I had done before , and press hard against the Bodkin , which he did , and held it very firm and steady , whilst I made an Incision about an inch and a half in length on the outside of the right Musculus Rectus , till I came to the Bladder .
I then passed my Fore-finger and Thumb into the wound , and got hold of the head of the Bodkin , ( the substance of the Bladder only being between ) upon which , with a small crooked Bistore , I cut the Bladder , and by gently pressing my Finger and Thumb the Bodkin slipped out of the Bladder between them , by which I very easily extracted it .
I dressed the wound and put her into Bed , and in less than a month , by Gods great blessing , she was perfectly cured , and as free from any inconvneience , occasioned by swallowing the Bodkin , as ever she was in her life .
Tho. ProbyWE , the Physicians under-named , do hereby certify , that all the particulars of the Chirurgical operation of extracting the Bodkin out of the Bladder of Dorcas Blake , as contained in the foregoing account , are truly and faithfully related , it being performed by Mr Thomas Proby , Master Chiruregon , with great skill and success in our presence , as witness our Hands , this 22d of May , 1695 .
I. Madden Presid .
T. Molyneux .
Wm. Smith .
DOrcas Blake , of Fishamble-street , in the Parish of St John Spinster , came this day before me , and being sworn on the holy Evangelists , saith that the above relation is true in substance , and that she did swallow the Bodkin therein mentioned , and that the Bodkin now showed to her is the same that she formerly swallowed .
her Dorcas Blake .
mark .
Jurat coram me decimo die Junii 1695 .
G. Blackall Major .
Dublin .
The ~ Bodkin was cut out of her Bladder that day nine weeks that she swallowed it .
There was but half of the Bodkin in the Bladder , which was incrustrated with a gravelly calculous matter , as appears in the adjoining figure .
A the head or blunt end of the Bodkin , from A to B the half which was in the Bladder with its Crust : from B to C the part which was out of the Bladder in the Pelvis , the point resting upon the Ischium .
Vid. Fig. 7 .
T e fig : 7 .
b fig : 4 .
eBC c A E LR B amC dMoC b B fig : 6 .
hT nH A KD

