II .
" On the Stability of Domes."-Part II .
By E. WYNDHAM TARN , M.A. , Memb. Roy .
Inst. Brit. Architects .
Communicated by G. GODWIN , Esq. Received October 23 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) In a former paper on this subject which the author presented to the Royal Society , and which is published in the 'Proceedings ' ( vol. xv .
p. 182 ) , he obtained formulae for calculating the thrust of a spherical dome of uniform thickness , by supposing it to consist of a number of thin ribs , each of which is formed by two vertical planes intersecting at the axis of the dome , and making a small angle with each other ; and then treating each rib as forming , with the corresponding one of the opposite side , a complete arch .
In the present paper the author applies the same method to domes of other forms than the spherical .
The following are the kinds for which the formulm are investigated : A. The Gothic dome , of which that of the cathedral at Florence is a splendid example .
This kind has for its section a pointed arch formed by two segments of circles , the centre from which each is struck being on the springing line , but not in the axis of the dome .
The author denotes by a the angle between the vertical and a line drawn from this centre to the point , near the crown of the dome , where its axis is intersected by a circle drawn around that centre with a radius equal to the mean of the radii of the circles which generate the outer and inner surfaces of the dome , and reduces his results to numbers for three different values of the angle a. B. A dome whose inner surface is a paraboloid of revolution , the thickness of the shell being uniform throughout .
C. The dome whose surface is formed by the revolution of an ellipse about its major axis .
In the investigation , the two surfaces are supposed to be generated by the revolution of two concentric elliptic quadrants , whose major axes differ from one another by the same quantity as the minor axes , so that the thickness is very nearly uniform throughout .
D. A form of dome commonly used in eastern countries , sometimes called the ogival dome , the surface of which is generated by the revolution of a curve which has a point of contrary flexure .
In the investigation , the author takes for this curve the curve of sines , the equation of which is y'=r sin- , where x ' , y ' are the vertical and horizontal coordir nates of a point in the generating curve , and supposes the outer and inner surfaces to be generated by the revolution of two such curves , differing only by the value of r , the origin being the same .
The following Table exhibits the principal results obtained from the author 's investigations .
All the domes , except the last , are supposed to be of the uniform thickness throughout of 1 foot .
In the last the thickness is 1 foot at the springing , but gets rather less towards the top .
The domes are supposed to be built of material weighing 125 lbs. to the cubic foot .
The thrust is calculated for the 180th part of the whole dome , being the portion cut out by two planes which make an angle of 2 ?
at the axis .
Table showing the position of the weakest joint in domes of various forms , and the horizontal thrust at that joint .
Greatest horiPosition of the weakest ; ltt h Form of Dome .
Span .
joint , or joint where oal thrust a or thrust at thrust is greatest .
est j weakest joint .
lbs. 1 .
Hemisc~ fact .
~ Malakes with springing line 201 1 .
H emisphere ... ... ... ... . .
2a ... .
i{ angl of 20 9201 Hemispe1 r 20 an angle of 20 ? .
f 2 .
Gothic , a -10 ... ... . .
Makes with springing line 88'7 a20 l an angle of 17 ? .
3 .
gothic , a{22-2 0 .
20 { } Makes with springing lineil 3 .
Gothic , a=22- ... ... ... ... .{^anSTo ?
r^^^^^ 80 ?
418 4 .
Gothic , a=30 ... ... ... ... ... { 77-27 4 .
GoiC , a-o *--30 0.@@@ 20 l Makes with springing line }727 5 .
Parabolic ; height above springing equals th half 2 At springing line 79-6 span .
6 .
Elliptical , major axis verOne-third of semimajor tical ; ratio of major to 0 axis above springing 90-867 minor axis as 6 : 5 .
1 line .
7 .
Ogival ; contour , the " curve J One-sixteenth of the span l 625 of sines .
" 20 above springing line .
I In the preceding cases , except the last , the domes are assumed to be of uniform thickness .
The author finally applies his formulae to the case of the spherical dome in which the thickness at the crown is one-half that at the springing , the inner surface being generated by the revolution of a circular quadrant whose centre is raised above the centre of that which generates the outer surface by half the difference of the radii .
Assuming the outer and inner radii R , r to be respectively 11 feet and 10 feet , he finds that the weakest point on a dome of this form appears to be at a height equal to LR above the springing line ; and with the other numerical values , assumed the same as before , he finds for the horizontal thrust at the weakest joint 55178 lbs. For each kind of dome the author forms what he calls the equation of stability , giving , for an assumed value of the height of the pier , the least thickness t which will permit of stability .
The following are the results for each kind of dome , the height of the pier being taken at 50 feet : Spherical dome ( from former paper ) ... t=2'45 feet .
Gothic dome ( a==22 ) ... ... .
t=2-259 , Parabaloidal domee ... ... .
t-=2244 , , Elliptic dome ... ... ... . .
t244 , , Ogival dome ... ... ... 2 , , Spherical dome ( thinner at crown ) ... .
t= 1'9 The author considers what he has found as the weakest part of a dome to be the position in which an iron belt must be placed to produce the greatest effect in counteracting the thrust of the dome .
If this be done , the thickness of the pier may be considerably diminished , and need not greatly exceed the strength necessary for supporting the superincumbent weight acting vertically downwards .

