421 1874 .
] Dr. A. Gunther on Gigantic Land-Tortoises .
We do not overlook the possibility that the alteration in secretion may be partly due to the direct action of the drug on the secreting elements of the kidneys , and we are still engaged in experiments on this subject .
XI .
" Description of the Living and Extinct Races of Gigantic Land-Tortoises.\#151 ; Parts I. and II .
Introduction , and the Tortoises of the Galapagos Islands/ ' By Dr. Albert Gunther , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The author having had the opportunity of examining a considerable collection of the remains of Tortoises found in the islands of Mauritius and Rodriguez associated with the bones of the Dodo and Solitaire , has arrived at the following conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
These remains clearly indicate the former existence of several species of gigantic Land-Tortoises , the Rodriguez species differing more markedly from those of the Mauritius than these latter among themselves .
All these species appear to have become extinct in modern times .
2 .
These extinct Tortoises of the Mascarenes are distinguished by a flat cranium , truncated beak , and a broad bridge between the foramina obturatoria .
3 .
All the other examples of gigantic Tortoises preserved in our museums , and said to have been brought from the Mascarenes , and likewise the single species which is known still to survive , in a wild state , in the small island of Aldabra , have a convex cranium , truncated beak , and a narrow bridge between the obturator foramina ; and therefore are specifically , if not generically , distinct from the extinct ones .
4 .
On the other hand , there exists the greatest affinity between those contemporaries of the Dodo and Solitaire and the Tortoises still inhabiting the Galapagos archipelago .
These unexpected results induced the author to subject to a detailed examination all the available material of the gigantic Tortoises from the Mascarenes and Galapagos which are still living , or were believed to be living , and are commonly called Testudo and Testiulo , and to collect all the historical evidence referring to them .
Thus , in the first { introductory ' ) part of the paper a selection from the accounts of travellers is given , by which it is clearly shown that the presence of these Tortoises at two so distant stations as the Galapagos and Mascarenes cannot be accounted for by the agency of man , at least not in historical times , and therefore that these animals must be regarded as indigenous .
The second part consists of a description of the Galapagos Tortoises .
The author shows that the opinion of some of the older travellers , viz. 422 Dr. A. Gunther on Gigantic Land-Tortoises .
[ June 18 , that the different islands of the group are inhabited by different races , is perfectly correct ; and he distinguishes four species , the adults of which are characterized as follows :\#151 ; A. Shell broad , with more or less corrugated plates .
Shull with the palatal region concave ; outer pterygoid edge sharp in its entire length or for the greater part of its length ; a deep recess in front of the occipital condyle ; anterior wall of the entrance of the tympanic cavity constricted .
One of the two species is from James Island .
1.Shell depressed , with the upper anterior profile subhorizontal in the male , and with the striae of the plates not deeply sculptured ; sternum truncated behind .
Shull with the facial portion very short , and with an immensely developed and raised occipital crest .
Testudo ( Harlan ) .
2 .
Shell much higher , with the upper anterior profile declivous in the male , and with the striae deeply sculptured ; sternum excised behind .
Shull with the facial portion much longer , and with low occipital crest .
Testudo nigrita ( Dum .
\amp ; Bibr .
) .
B. Shell oblong , smooth .
Shull with the palatal region shallow ; the outer pterygoid edge expanded in its whole length ; no deep recess in front of the occipital condyle ; anterior wall of the tympanic cavity not constricted .
3 .
Shell with some traces of former concentric striae , compressed anteriorly into the form of a " Spanish saddle " in the male ; sternum truncated behind .
Shull with the tympanic cavity much produced backwards .
Testudo ephippium ( Gthr .
) , from Charles Island .
Extinct .
4 .
Shell perfectly smooth , with declivous anterior profile in the male , and with truncated posterior extremity of the sternum .
Shull resembling that of the young of the larger species , with the tympanic case not produced backwards .
The smallest species .
Testudo microphyes ( Gthr .
) , from Hood 's Island .
Part III .
will contain the account of the still existing Tortoises of the Mascarenes , and Part IV .
that of the extinct species .
Received June 9 , 1874 .
PS .
The author has just received from Professor Huxley the carapace and skeleton of another adult male , which evidently belongs to a fifth species of Galapagos Tortoises .
With regard to the form of the carapace , it resembles much that of T. elephantopus , the dorsal shell being depressed , broad , with the upper profile nearly horizontal .
Striae distinct , broad .
However , the skull differs widely from that of T. elephantopus , and has all the characteristics of that of T. ephippium , from which it differs in having a circular tympanic opening .
The form of the sternum is quite peculiar , the gular portion being much constricted and produced forwards , whilst the opposite end is expanded into the large anal scutes and deeply excised .
This species may be named Testudo vicina .

