]\gt ; The Decrease of Velocity of the rticles , etc. not at an identical speed , but with widely different velocities .
The experiments with radium emanation gave similar evidence with respect to the -rays from and Summing up the experiments which , as we have seen , confirm Wilson 's results , we may say that\mdash ; 1 .
-rays , which are absorbed according to an exponential law , are not homogeneous .
2 .
-rays must fall in velocity in traversing matter , for , if not , the absorption coefficient of any mixture of rays would decrease as the rays passed through matter .
In conclusion , I wish to express my thanks to utherford for these experiments and for his advice and lelp d their ress , and also to ) .
Boltwood , who separated and purified the sample of radium employed in these experiments .
Decrease of Velocity the rticles oPassing Matter .
By IVILLIAM WILSO , Hon. ] Fellow of the UniversiC of Manchester .
( Communicated ) Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received May 6 , \mdash ; Read June 9 , 1910 .
) In a previous it was shown that the absorption of homogeneous -rays by matter when determined by the ionisation method does not take place according to an exponential law , as had previously been assutned , but according to a law which is practically linear .
This means that the absolption coefficient of the rays becomes rreater the further the rays penetrate the absorbing medium , and since the absorption coefficient increases decreasing velocity of the -rays it gests that the rays are slowed down on through matter .
Some experiments were which fully confirm this view .
Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 82 , 1909 .
If 6 rays of intensity I fall on a layer of matter of the intensity is decreased by , and is called the absorption coefficient of the rays .
For an exponential law of absorption is constant .
, p. 142 Mr. W. Wilson .
The Decrease of Velocity of the [ May 6 , The following experiments were made in older to determine the manner in which the velocity of the rays decreases as they pass through matter and to test if the actual decrease observed is sufficient to account for the linear law of absorption .
Expcrimental Arrangement .
The eneral idea of the experiment was to separate out a beam of approximately homogeneous rays by means of a field , and to determine the velocity of these rays after passing through various sheets of matter by means of a second field .
The arrangement of apparatus is shown in fig. 1 .
A quantity of radium elnanation corresponding to about 30 milligrammes radium bromide was used as a source of -rays and was contained in a thin glass bulb A. This was placed in a hole cm .
diameter in a lead block in such a manner that the rays from the active deposit could pass into the magnetic field C. The -particles moved through the field in circular paths and passed through a hole in a lead plate into a second magnetic field , where they were further deflected and made to enter an electroscope E. The mean radius of curvature in both fields was cm .
The screens , were inserted in order to prevent complications due to secondary and scattered rays .
The pole-pieces of the two 1nagnets were separated by two lead plates , and Q. In 1 ' the hole was cut , while in there was a slot in which various sheets of aluminium could be inserted to cover the hole O. The whole was securely clamped in order to prevent movements of the apparatus when the current in either eleCt ( was switched on or off .
1910 .
] -Particles Passing through Matter .
The first point to decide in connection with the apparatus is the constancy of the fields between the pole-pieces of the two electromagnets .
For this purpose , readings were taken of the field strength at different points , such as those shown in fig. 1 , by 1 , 2 , 3 , . .
13 , along the line .
The points were 1 cm .
apart .
The results obtained are shown in , the positions in the field being taken as abscissae and the strengths of the field as ordinates .
We see that there is a sudden change in the field as we pass from between the pole-pieces of one magnet to between those of the , and that the fields in each are practically uniform .
FIG. 2 .
The field in each electromagnet is a function of the current in both .
Thus , if the current the was kept constant and that in made to vary , changes took place in both the fields and D. Now , in the present case , it is required that the field in the electromagnet should be kept constant , while that in is made to vary , so that changes in the currents exciting both electromagnets are necessary .
The system was therefore calibrated as follows : current in the electromagnet was kept constant , while that in was varied , and the strengths of the fields in each were 44 Mr. W. Wilson .
The Decrease of Velocity of the [ May determined by means of a Grassot fluxmeter , for each value of the current .
in D. A similar set of readings was taken for about ten different values of the current in C. From the results thus obtained , curves could be drawn from which the values of the currents in and could be adjusted so that .
the field in was kept constant while that in was made to vary .
Method of Experim The method of an experiment was as follows : currents of known strength through the nets C and , approximately eneous radiation was allowed to pass through the hole into the magnetic field D. The field in was varied , while that in was kept .
constant , so that the same bundle of approximately eneous rays .
passed the hole during the whole of an experiment .
The ionis tion in theelectl.oscope was determined for each value of the field in , and the values thus obtained were plotted against the current through D. .
The rays were then made to pass through various sheets of aluminium placed in the slot in before they entered the second netic field , an\amp ; the experiments repeated .
Curves obtained in this manner are shown in , and have well defined maxima If the source of the rays and the FIG. 3 .
1910 .
] -Particles Passing through .
145 :apertmes between the fields and under the electroscope were infin itely small , the rays entering the second field would be quite eneous , and we would ionisation in the electroscope for one definite value of the field in D. Since the conditions of the experiment require that these should have some finite size we get instead a curve which rapidly rises to a maximuu ] , which may be taken as a measure of the mean velocity of the rays .
It will be noticed that these maximum points move to the lo ver fields as sheets of aluminium are interposed in the path , proving conclusively that the velocity of the rays decreases by an appreciable amount they pass matter .
The effects observed cannot be due to heterogeneity of the rays which pass into the second field , for if were the case , and there were no change in the velocity of the rays on ] matter , thhe maximum point would move to the higher instead of the lower fieJds , .owing to the fact that slow rays are More easily absorbed than the ones .
Schmidt*looked for this effect with the rays from dium E were :supposed to be eneous .
He found no in the position of the maximum when various sheets of metal were interposed in the path of the rays before they entered the 1nagnetic field .
These rays to the view put forward in my } ) revious paper , eneous , and this accounts for the fact that the maximum point does not show any appreciable .change of position .
The greater absorption of the slow than of the rapid tends to move maximum point to the higher fields , while the 'decrease in velocity tends to moye it in the opposite direction .
The 'effects are of the same order of crnitude , and no appreciable ]llovement of the n1aximu1n point takes place .
to the present experiments , if screens were placed under the electroscol ) instead of between the two fields , the point was found to llove rhtly to the higher fields , on account of th ' rays being not quite eneous .
This effect was not so strongly rked for the rapid as for the slow rays .
The ( corresponding to the various could ) determined from the calibration curves , and the velocities deduced .
this means , the manner in which the velocity of the falls off thickness of matter traversed can be determined .
When the -particles fall on matter , a certain are sent certain proportion absorbed , and those which pass on do so with diminished speed .
Thus , in the present ) eriments , we have , besides a movement of the nlaximum to the lower fields , a considerable decrease in the ) of Schmidt , ( Phys. , 1907 , p. 361 .
146 Mr. W. Wilson .
The Decrease of Velocity of the [ May 6 , particles reaching the electroscope when sheets of matter are inserted in the path of the rays .
This makes it impossible to continue measurements after the -particles have passed through a small thickness of aluminium .
Experiments were therefore carried out as follows :Particles moving at a speed were started with , and their velocity determined after they had passed through various thicknesses of matter .
Another experiment was then started , with the initial velocity intermediate between the first and last of the former set of readings , and similar measurements made .
This process was repeated until rays of such low velocity were reached , that their rate of absorptlon became altogether too great to admit of any accurate determination of the maxima .
Discussion of Results .
Results obtained in this manner are shown in Table I. The portions into which the table is divided refer to experiments starting with different initial points .
Table I. The velocities are calculated from the formula where is the strength of the field and the radius of the path of the rays .
The value of was determined from the Lorentz-Einstein formula where is the velocity of light .
The value of is taken as E.M.U.* Bucherer , ' Phys. Zeits 9 , 1908 , p. 755 .
1910 .
] -Particles on Passing through Matter .
The corresponding values of the energy are calculated from the equation given by Einstein .
* Now , according to the experiments described in my previous paper , the absorption of the -rays takes place according to a linear law when measured by the ionisation .
That is , the after passing a iven thickness of matter have an iven by , where and are constants .
The absorption coefficient is defined by where , or .
( 1 ) Thus the value of increases as the thickness of matter increases from zero , becoming theoretically infinite when In the previous papel a table was given showing the connection between and the velocity of the -rays , and from it we can find the velocity of rays with any given absorption coefficient .
Now from equation ( 1 ) we can determine the absorption coefficient of rays of any initial velocity after they have passed through iven thickness of matter , and hence can deduce the corresponding velocity .
Results obtained in tlus manner are shown in Table II , where the initial velocity of the rays is cm .
Table II .
*Einstein , ' Ann. der Physik , ' June , 1907 .
148 Mr. W. Wilson .
The Decrease of Velocity of the [ May 6 , The results obtained in this manner were compared with those determined experimentally as follows :Starting with rays of a certain observed velocity , we can calculate what their velocity should be after passing through various thicknesses of matter , and these results can be compared with those actually determined .
Such starting points are shown in Table III in square The values of the velocities after the rays have passed through various sheets of aluminium are shown in Column 4 , and the corresponding velocities calculated as above in Column 5 .
The various sections of the table refer to experiments with different starting points .
The agreement is seen to be , except in the case of some of the low velocities , which are difficult to determine .
Table III .
In the two sections of the table the starting points are not shown , Qince they were different for } different thickness of matter .
The position of the maximum point moved apprcciably to the fields sheets of dilferent thickness were placed under the electro .
scope , and these positions were taken as starting points .
The experiments become very difficult when rays of low velocity are being dealt with , to the fact that they are both very easily scattered very easily absorbed by the screens which are placed in their path .
1910 .
] -Particles on through Matter .
149 The decrease of velocity with thickness of matter traversed is shown graphically in .
The curve is drawn from the results given in Table II , and the points denoted by circles are the experimental values given in a FIG. 4 .
Table 1II .
The values in square brackets are fitted on the curve , and the re1naining points are determined from these starting points .
Now although the total change of velocity observed in these experiments is small it is quite definite , and since we are dealing with rays of high velocity the change in the energy and in the properties of the rays with respect to absorption are quite reat .
Taking the difference between the highest and lowest values of the velocity observed , the change is only from to , i.e. , only 21 per cent. The change of energy corresponding to this is from to ergs , or a difference of 77 per cent. The change in the value of the absorption coefficient is still more marked , for that corresponding to the higher velocity is cm .
that corresponding to the lower is cm .
, which shows that the penetrating power of the rays has been completely altered .
VOL. LXXXIT.\mdash ; A.

