398 Dr. O. Kosenheim .
Chitin Carapace of [ May 27 , luteum is formed and this organ provides a further secretion whose function is essential for the changes taking place during the attachment and development of the embryo in the first stages of pregnancy .
Chitin in the Carapace of Pterygotus osiliensis , from the Silurian Rocks of By Otto Rosenheim , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Professor W. I ) .
Halliburton , F.R.S. From the Physiological Laboratory , King 's College , London .
Received May 27 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) Professor E. Ray Lankester , who has been interested in the constitution of the carapace of certain fossil Eurypterids found in Oesel in rocks of Silurian age , placed the matter in the hands of Mr. Bather , of the Geological Department , Natural History Museum .
In March last Mr. Bather asked Professor Halliburton 's co-operation in the chemical investigation , stating that a preliminary examination , made by himself and Mr. G. T. Prior , led them to believe that the material retained its chitinous nature .
When the small fragments of the carapace , which were all that could be spared from the duplicate specimens in the British Museum , arrived in this laboratory , Professor Halliburton placed them in my hands , and I proceeded to examine them for chitin .
Gamgee , in his ' Text-book of Physiological Chemistry , '* gives a long list of various invertebrate structures , mainly epiblastic , where chitin has been described , but the list is only approximately accurate , as Gamgee points out that , in many cases , a chitinous composition has been ascribed to a structure solely on the ground of its insolubility in caustic alkalis and dilute acids , or even in only one of these two classes of reagents .
In 1884 the list was extended by Halliburton , f who showed that the cartilages occurring in Sepia and Limulus contain a small percentage of chitin ; this was confirmed in the case of Sepia by Krukenberg , j who found the same material in the skeletal structures in that animal .
It has further been found in certain fungi .
S * Vol. 1 , p. 299 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' No. 235 , 1885 ; 'Quart .
Journ. of Micros .
Science , ' vol. 25 , p. 173 1885 .
t ' Ber .
d. deutsch .
Qhem .
Ges .
, ' vol. 18 , p. 993 , 1885 .
S Gilson , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 120 ; Winterstein , ' Ber .
d. deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
, ' vols .
27 and 28 .
1905 .
] Pterygotus osilien sis , / rom the Silurian Rocks 399 In spite of a considerable amount of work on the composition of chitin , there is still some uncertainty as to its exact chemical structure .
It has , however , been definitely removed from the albuminoids with which it was formerly classed .
Its most characteristic decomposition product is the amino-derivative of sugar , known as glucosamine or chitosamine .
Schmiede-berg* regards chitin as an acetyl derivative of glucosamine , whereas Frankel and Kellyf consider it to possess a more complicated composition .
Unfortunately , the amount of material I obtained from the carapace of Pterygotus osiliensis was too small to allow of a complete chemical investigation ; it only weighed 0 0135 gramme .
It consisted of brownish scales .
In order to remove inorganic substances , the scales were boiled with 3 c.c. of 3-per-cent , hydrochloric acid .
Carbon dioxide was evolved during this process , and the amount of material was lessened .
The treatment was repeated three times , and the last traces of hydrochloric acid were removed by boiling with distilled water until the reaction was neutral to Congo paper .
The residue was subjected to consecutive treatment with 2-per-cent , potassium hydroxide ( to remove organic acids ) , water , alcohol , and ether , in order to get rid , as far as possible , of organic substances soluble in those reagents .
After this treatment the substance still showed a brown colour , and an unsuccessful attempt was made to destroy the pigment with a solution of potassium permanganate .
Transparent brownish scales remained .
So far , the behaviour of the material towards reagents and solvents was identical with that of chitin .
In order to obtain more conclusive proof , an attempt was made to hydrolyse the substance , and identify the typical product of hydrolysis , namely , glucosamine .
A control experiment was first made with a similar small fragment of pure chitin .
I was unable , however , with such a small quantity to obtain the glucosamine hydrochloride in crystalline form ; but , after the treatment with hydrochloric acid , evaporation , and finally dissolving the residue in water , its presence was demonstrated by means of its reducing action on Fehling 's solution .
On subjecting the brownish scales obtained from the carapace to the same treatment , it seemed at first that concentrated hydrochloric acid did not attack them .
They were therefore left in contact with the concentrated acid for some weeks , and then the whole was evaporated on the water-bath .
The aqueous solution of the residue showed strong reducing properties with Fehling 's test , from which the formation of glucosamine may be inferred .
The conclusion I draw from my experiments is that the general behaviour * ' Arch. f. exp .
Path .
u. Pharm. , ' vol. 28 .
t ' MonatBhefte f. Chemie , ' vol. 23 .
400 Prof. E. Ray Rankester .
On a Species of [ June 8 of the substance towards acids and solvents is such that it is probably chitin and this is confirmed by the fact that , after such treatment , it yielded , on hydrolysis with concentrated hydrochloric acid , a strongly reducing substance which is presumably glucosamine .
The preliminary resistance noted towards the strong acid does not seem remarkable , when one considers the hardening the material must have undergone during and after fossilisation .
On a New Species of Cephalodiscus ( C. nigrescens ) from the Antarctic Ocean .
By E. Ray Lankester , M.A. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.R.S. , Director of the Natural History Departments of the British Museum .
( Received and Read June 8 , 1905 .
) [ Plate 8 .
] The material here described was dredged by the " Discovery , " on January 13 , 1902 , in 100 fathoms , off Coulman Island , near Victoria Land , in the Antarctic Ocean , and was brought home with the rest of the collections , arriving at the Natural History Museum in September of last year .
It had not been possible for the naturalists on the expedition to examine this organism in the living state , and its nature had not been determined until it came into my hands .
The colony is massive , the test nearly transparent , somewhat opalescent , and with a slight yellowish-brown tint .
The largest piece in the collection measures roughly 190 by 115 mm. and has twelve branches .
This piece is reproduced of natural size in Plate 8 .
The largest single branch is 90 mm. long and 32 mm. across .
The branches are roughly cylindrical in shape , the larger ones are blunt-ended , the smaller ones taper towards their extremities .
Opening at fairly regular intervals over the surface of the colony are the tubes in which polypides dwell , and the substance of the test is sufficiently transparent to enable one to trace the tubes inwards for a moderate distance with the unaided eye , and to recognise the polypides within the tubes .
The margin of the opening of each tube is produced into a blunt lip , and the roughness of the surface of the colony is mainly due to these projecting lips-Each tube contains but one full-grown polypide and its buds , and does not communicate with the other tubes of the colony .
The deep or blind end of the tube shows a number of thin septa , hemispherical or irregular , which

