Further Experiments and Observations on Iodine .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read June 16 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 487 .
] The present set of experiments are , in part , a continuation of the author 's experiments on compounds of iodine and fixed alkalies , which he treats of under the head of triple compounds , because they contain iodine , oxygen , and potassium , or sodium .
But he also treats of various compound salts , which this substance forms in conjunction with other acids , and of the effects produced upon iodine by the action of some compound gases .
When the triple compound of iodine , oxygen , and potassium , is dissolved in nitric acid , the acid may be distilled without any decomposition of the salt ; but when it is dissolved in sulphuric acid orphosphoric acid , the heat which these acids will bear is sufficient to decompose the salt , which then yields oxygen and iodine , and leaves sulphate or phosphate of potash .
When a solution of this salt , in strong mulriatic acid , is heated , there is a smell of chlorine , the fluid becomes yellow , and yields , by distillation , chloriodic acid .
A solution of the triple compound , in sulphurous acid , when distilled , yields iodine , and leaves sulphate of potash ; but the phenomena are variously modified , by a greater or less proportion of either ingredient .
From such experiments as the author has made on the proportional weights of the constituents of this salt , he considers it perfectly analogous to hyperoxymuriate of potash ; and its constitution will be represented by one of potassium 75 , six of oxygen 90 , and one of iodine 165 .
The author also made triple compounds with iodine and alkaline earths , which , like oxyiode of potash , contain a redundance of oxygen , separable by heat , and gave hopes that a compound of iodine and oxygen , similar to euchlorine , might be obtained from some of them ; but these salts are not decomposable by acids ; for even the oxyiode of barytes is not decomposed by sulphuric acid , and hence no compound of iodine and oxygen has yet been obtained in a separate state .
From hydriodic gas , or from the acid formed by union of this gas with water , iodine may be obtained by union with oxygen , by nitric acid , by hyperoxymuriate of potash , or even by absorption of oxygen from the atmosphere .
This acid unites with the alkalies and common earths into compounds very analogous to the corresponding compounds with muriatic acid , but decomposable , in a certain degree , by heat when oxygen is present , which occasions most of these compounds to become alkaline when long heated .
Although chlorine and iodine unite in all proportions , there is one compound nearly colourless that appears to be definite , having strongly acid properties , and the author terms this chloriodic acid .
When any of these compounds are mixed with alkaline solutions , the tendency appears to be , in the first instance , to form oxyiodes with the alkali or earth present ; but the phenomena necessarily vary according to the proportion of the several ingredients present .
In the next set of experiments , which the author made with gases , the results appear to be regulated by the presence of hydrogen , forming hydriodic acid with the iodine , as in the instances of olefiant gas and sulphuretted hydrogen .
No change was produced in nitrous gas , nor in carbonic oxide , to which iodine was exposed in common day-light , nor even when it was sublimed in it ; but it appeared doubtful whether there might not be some tendency to combine when the violet vapour was formed by heat in full sunshine .
In conclusion , the author reports various unsuccessful attempts to obtain iodine from different species of sea-weeds , and from sea-water , on the shores of the Mediterranean ; and he recommends silver as a test of its presence , since water containing only TrTWth part of its weight of any salt of iodine tarnishes polished silver , even after boiling with muriatic acid , although this property is destroyed in sulphurets by similar treatment .
The sea-weeds tried by the author amount to six species .
Fucus cartilagineus , Fucus filamentosus , membranaceus , Ulva pavonia , -rubens , linza .
But he could discover no -traces of it in any of these , nor in certain corallines and sponges which he also tried .

