of the 17th of November 1848 .
" By the Rev. Charles F. Watkins .
Communicated by the Marquis of Northampton , V.P.R.S. The author states that , " About half-past 7 P.M. the sky assumed the appearance which it usually does immediately preceding the action of what are called the Northern Lights .
In the northern half it was quite clear for about forty-five degrees from the meridian , of a pale blue , and covered with a faint light , such as generally ushers in the moon at her rising .
Towards the east and west this light gradually diminished , and south of those cardinal points the dimness as gradually thickened .
" Soon after eight the coruscations began by the usual lambent strokes of a shining filmy matter , like the sudden shooting forth and instantaneous retroceding of a serpent 's tongue .
They commenced in the north-east , and shot upwards in an angle of about 70 degrees of inclination towards the south , and to about 60 degrees in length , more or less , leaving the sky clear to the north , and in a manner gradually chasing the clouds , upon whose receding bounds they glanced further to the south .
' In a short time the same kind of electrical action commenced in the north-west quarter of the heavens , and continued simultaneously with that from the north-east , both increasing in rapidity , intensity and depth of colour ; till at length an entire hemispherical arch of crimson and purple , but with uneven edges , spanned the heavens from east to west , and remained suspended there for several minutes .
By degrees this arch broke up into separate masses of highly and parti-coloured clouds , resembling those which are seen floating about after the setting of an ardent sun .
Meanwhile the lighter coruscations continued , -now glancing upwards on the northern edges of the clouds , which were still slowly receding to the south , and now shooting up beneath them as'they steadily retreated .
At the same time others of a redder hue played now alternately , and now in union with them .
" About a quarter past nine an extraordinary phenomenon occurred , such as I never before witnessed ; the zenith assumed the appearance of a crimson coronary apex to distinct but connected bands of various shades of crimson , green and purple , in which the crimson prevailed , flowing down from thence like a canopy , encircling the upper portion of the heavens , which to me presented the inside view of a ribbed and vaulted cupola .
By degrees this beautiful creation dissolved , and the body of clouds , against which the electrical forces seemed to have been in hostile pursuit , fled away to the south ; the elementary action ceased : a silent calm returned , and nothing but the tranquil light , still shining in the north , remained to indicate the recent scene .
The wind had blown with a fresh but steady breeze from the north-west , during the continuance of the phenomenon .
" Without entering at present into any disquisition upon the causes , I will now state the meteorological results which I immediately anticipated and have seen to follow these atmospheric phenomena .
" I have observed , and have stated my observations for some years past , that the certain result of all meteoric coruscations and iridescences in the sky , is a fall of rain , snow or hail , -on this general principle , that the condensation of the crystalline particles of floating vapours which ensues upon electrical action , must be followed by precipitation ; and these coruscations and iridescences are both the reflected evidences of such condensation of crystalline matter , and therefore the harbingers of such precipitation .
It is the case with solar and lunar rainbows , falling stars , mock-suns , halos , lightning , aurora , and that undefined pearly lustre which sometimes appears in the neighbourhood of the sun .
" Accordingly , on the following morning , Saturday the 18th , I found the barometer had sunk considerably , and the wind had veered round from north-west to south-west , against the course of the sun , both in general , and especially when united , the forerunners of rain .
Accordingly at 2 o'clock P.M. a smart shower came on in Northampton , but was of short duration .
At 9 P.M. a heavier shower was experienced at Brixworth ; and in the course of the night , but I cannot say at what hour , I was awakened to a still heavier shower ; but the quantity of rain that had fallen did not seem to have affected the ground much on the following morning , and therefore I conclude that it was not great .
" Sunday the 19th was fine and bright ; the wind went up to the westward , and the barometer rose rapidly-a general indication of an early change .
Towards morning of Monday the 20th , another shower fell , and the wind went back to the south-west with a falling barometer .
In such cases I generally find that rain ensues about midday , or at least when the wind and sun meet in the south-west .
But on this occasion it continued blowing strong all the day , and for some time in the night with increased violence .
But at last the wind fell , and was succeeded for awhile by heavy rain , thus verifying my anticipations on this particular occasion , and the general theory which I have discussed .
"

