]\gt ; .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, esident , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor William Tenant Gairdner and Professor James William H. Trail were admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read : I. the Elasticity of a Crystal to Boscovich By the LORD , P.B.S. Received June 8 , 1893 .
S 1 .
A crystal in nature is essentially a eneous assemblage of equal and similar molecules , which for evity I shall call crystalline molecules .
The crystalline molecule may be the smallest portion which can be taken from the substance without chemical decomposition , that is to say , it may be the group of atoms kept together by chemical affinity , which constitutes what for brevity I shall call the chemical molecule ; or it may be a group of two , three , or more of these chemical molecules kept together by cohesive force .
In a crystal of tartaric acid the crystalline molecule may be , and it seems to me probably is , the chemical molecule , because if a crystal of tartaric acid is dissolved and recrystallised it always remains dextro-chiral .
In a crystal of chlorate of soda , as has been pointed out to me by Sir George Stokes , the crystalline molecule probably consists of a of two or more of the chemical ] ecules constituting chlorate of soda , because , as found by crystals of the substance some of them dextro-chiral and some of them levo-chiral ; and if a crystal of either chirality is dissolved the solutiou shows no irality in its action on polal.ised light ; but if it is recrystallised the crystals are found to be some of them dextro-chiral and some of them levochiral , as both by their crystalline forms and by their action on arised light .
It is possible , however , that even in chlorate of soda the crystalline molecule may be the chemical molecule , becanse it may be that the chemical molecule in soIution has its atoms relatively mobile enough not to remain persistenIly in any -chiral or levochiral grouping , and that each individual molecule settles .
Ann vol. 91 , pp. .
Ann. , pp. 60 Lord Kelvin .
On the into either a ro-chiral levo-chiral configuration in the act of forming a crystal .
S 2 .
Certain it is that the crystalline molecule has a chiral configuration in every crystal which shows chirality in its crystalline form or which produces right- or left-handed rotation of the planc of tion of light passing tlJrough it .
The magnetic rotation has neither right-handed nor left-handed quality that is to say , no chirality ) .
This was perfectly understood by Faraday and made clear in his writings , yet even to the present day we frequently find the chiral rotation and the magnetic rotation of the plane of poJal.ised light classed together in a manner against which Faraday 's original description of his discovery of the polarisation contains ample warning .
S ; 3 .
These questions , however , of chirality and magnetic rotation do not belong to my present subjecb , which is ] the forcive* required to keep a crystal homogeneously strained to any infinibesimal extent from the condition in which it rests when no force acts upon it from without .
In the elements of he mathematical theory of we find that this forcive constibutes what is called a homogeneous stress , and is specified completely by six generalised force-components , , . . . .
, , which are related to six corresponding ] ised components of strain , , by the following formulas :\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) , where denotes the work required per unit to alter any portion of the crystal from its natural unstressed and unstrained condition to any condition of infinitesimal homogeneous stress or strain : , . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 2 ) , where denote ferential coefficiellbs on the suppositiou that is expressed a homogeneous quadratic function of , . . . .
, : , where ' . . . .
, denote diffe-ential coefficients on the supposilion that is expressed as homogeneous quadratic functio$l of , . . . .
, is word introcluced by my there , tho late Professor Tholuso]l , to designate any systenl of 'Phil .
TraIlS Apri124 , inted in vol. iii , ' .
and Phys. ' ( Sir W. Thomson ) , pp. 1893 .
] Elasticit.a stal accordin9 to Boscovich .
S4 .
Each crystalline molecule in reality certainly experiences forcive from some of its nearest neighbours on two sides , and probably also next nearest neighbours and others .
Whatever the ltual forcive between two mutually acting crystalline molecules is in l.eality , and however it is produced , whether by continttous pressure in some medium , or by action at a distance , we may ideally reduce it , according to elementary statical principles , to two forces , or to ons single force and a couple in a plane perpendicular to that force .
Boscovich 's theory , a purely mathematical idealism , makes each crystalline molecule a single point , or a group of points , and assumes that there is a mntual force between each of one crystalline molecule and each point of neighbouring crystalline molecuIes , in the linejoining the two points .
The very simplest idea of a crystal is a homogeneous group of single points .
The next simplest idea is a homogeneous group of double points .
S 5 .
In the present communication , I that , if we take the very simplest Boscovichian idea of a crystal , a homogeneous roup of single points , we find essentially six relations between the -one coefficients in the quadratic function expressing whether in terms of , . . . .
, or of , . . . .
, .
These six relations are such that infinite resistance to change of bulk involves infinite rigidity .
In the particular case of equilateral* homogeneous assemblage with such a law of force as to give equal rigidities for all directions of , these six relations give 3 , which is the relation found by Navier and Poisson in t , heir Boscovichian theory for isotropic elasticity in a solid .
This ] ation was shown by Stokes to be violated by many real homogeneous opic subsbances , such , for example , as jelly and india-rubber , which oppose so great resistnnce to compression and so small resistance to of shape , that we may , with but little practical error , consider them as incompressible elastic solids .
S 6 .
I next demonstrate that if we take the next simplest Boscovichian idea for a crystal , a homogeneous of double points , we can assign very simple laws of variation of the forces between the points which shall give any arbitrarily value to each of the twenty-one coefficients in either of the quadratic expressions for S 7 .
1 consider particularly the problem of assigning such values to twenty-one cocfficients of either of the quadratic formulas as shall ronder the solid incompressible .
This is most easily done by taking as a quadratic function of , and by taking one of these is to say , an in the frolt to bours nrcst to it and to one to these at eqUtll dnccs f it .
lnplics that ) tnnt ncurcst :round it , and that on of four rest nbours 1 its fonr faccs fonr c Lord Kelvin .
On the [ June 15 , generalised stress components , say , as uniform positive or negative pressure in all directions .
This makes uniform compression or extension in all directions , and makes , . . . .
, five distortional components with no change of bulk .
The condition that the solid shall be incompressible is then simply that the coefficients of the six terms involving are each of them zero .
Thus , the expression for becomes merely a quadratic function of the five distortional stresscomponents , , with fifteen independent coefficients : and equations ( 3 ) of S3 above express the five distortional components as linear functions of the five stress-components with these fifleen independent coefficients .
Added July 18 , 1893 .
S 8 .
To demonstrate tlJe propositions of S 5 , let OX , , OZ be three mutually perpendicular lines through an point of a homo .
geneous assemblage , and let be the coordinates of any other point of the assemblage , in its unstrained condition .
As it is a homogeneous assemblage of single points that we are now considering , there must be another point , whose coordinates are Let be the coordinates of the altered position of in any condition of intinitesimal strain , specified by the six symbols , according to the notation of Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy , ' Vol. , Pt. II , S 669 .
In this notation , denote simple infinitesimal elongations parallel to OX , OY , respectively ; and infinitesimal changes from the right angles between three pairs of planes of the substance , which , in the unstrained condition , are parallel to , , respectively ( all angles being measured in terms of the adiau ) .
The definition of may be given , in other words , as follows , with taken as example : denotes the difference of component motions parallel to OY of two planes of the substance at unit distance asunder , kept parallel to during the displacement ; or , which is the same thing , the diiference of component motions parallel to OZ of two planes at unit disfance asunder kept parallel to ZOX during the displacement .
To avoid the unnecessary consideration of rotational displacement , we shall supposc the acement corresponding to the strain-component to consist of elongation perpendicular to OX in the plane through OX bisecting , and perpendicular to OX in the plane through OX perpendicular to that bisecting plane .
This displacement no contribution to , and contributes to and respectively and .
Hence , and dealsimilarly with and , and into account the contributions of , we find 1893 .
] Elasticity of a stal ording to Boscorich .
S 9 .
In our dynamical trcatment below , the following formulas , in hich powers higher than or products of the infinitesimal atios ( denoting OP ) are neglected , will be found nseful .
by ( 4 ) have . . . .
( 6 ) , ( 7 ) .
Using ( b ) and ( 7 ) in ( 5 ) , find , !
7 , .
( 8 ) , where denotes a quadratic function of , \amp ; c. , with Cocfficient of is \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; . . . . . . . . . .
( 9 ) , Lord Kelvin .
On the [ June 15 , and corresponding symmetrical expressions for the other fifteen coefficients .
S 10 .
Going back uow to S3 , let us find , the work per unit volume , required to alter our homogeneous assemblage from its unstrained condition to the infinitesimally strained condition specified by .
Let the work required to bring two points of the system from an infinitely great distance asunder to distancs This is what I shall call the mutual potential energy of two points at distance .
What I shall now call .
the potential energy of the whole system , and denote by , is the fotal work which must be done to bring all the points of it from infinite mutual distances to their actual positions in the system ; so that we have ( 10 ) , where denotes the sum of the values of for the distances between any one point , and all the others ; and denotes the sum of these sums with the point taken essively at every point of the system .
In this double summation is taken twice over , whence the factor in the formula ( 10 ) .
S 11 .
Suppose now the law of force to be such that vanishes for every of greater than , where denotes the distance between any one point and its nearest neighbour , and any small or large numeric exceeding unity , and limited only by the condition that is small in comparison with the linear dimensions of the whole assemblage .
This , and the eneousness of our assemblage , imply that , except through a very thin surface layer of thickness , exceedingly small in comparison with diameters of the assemblao.eo , every point experiences the same set of balancing forces from neighbours as every other point , whether the system be in what we have called its unstrained condition or in amy condition whatever of homogeneous strain .
This strain is not of necessity an infinitely small strain , so far as concerns the proposition just stated , although in our mathematical work we limit ourselves to ains which are infinitely small .
S 12 .
Remark also that if the whole system be given as a homogeneous assemblage of any specified description , and if all points in the surface-layer be held by externally applied forces in their posltions as constituents of a finite eneons assemblage , the whole assemblage will be in equilibrium under the intluence of mutual forces between the points ; because the force exerted on any point by any point is anced ) the equal and opposite exerted by the point at equal tance on the opposite side of O. S 13 .
now all points in the thin surface layer , let denote the wholc number of points in the homogeneous assemblage 1893 .
] Elasticity of according to Boscorich .
within it .
have , in S 10 , by reason of the of the assemblage , .
( 11 ) , and equation ( 10 ) becomes ( 12 ) .
Hence , by Taylor 's theorem , .
( 13 ) ; and using ( 8 ) in this , and remarking that if ( as in S 14 below ) we take the volume of our as urlity , so that is the numbel of points por unit volume , becomes the of S 3 ; we { ind . . . .
( 14 ) .
S 14 .
Let us now suppose , for simplicity , the whole assemblage , in its unstrained condition , to be a cube of unit edge , and let be the sum of the normal components of the forces applied to the points of the surface-layer in one of the faces of the cube .
The equilibrium of the cube , as a whole , requix.es an equal and opposite component in the opposite face of the cube .
Similarly , let and denote the sums of the components of extraneous force on two othe ] pairs of of the cube .
Let be the sum of tangential components , parallel to OZ , of the extraneous forces 011 cither of the faces .
The equilibrium of the cube as a who1 requires four such forces on the four faces parallel to OY , FIG. 1 .
VOL. Lord Kelvin .
On the [ June 15 , two couples , as shown in the accompanying diagram .
Similarly , we must have four balancing tangential forces on the foul faces parallel to OX , and four tangential forces on the four faces parallel to OZ .
S 15 .
Considering now an infinitely small change of strain in the cube from to ; the work required to produce it , as we see by considering the definitions of the displacements above in S 8 , is as follows , . . . . . .
( 15 ) .
Hence we have ; ; ( 16 ) .
; ; Hence , by ( 14 ) , and to denote linear functions , we find .
( 17 ) , .
expressions for , U. S 16 .
Let now our condition of zero strain be one*in which.no extraneous force is required to the assemblage from leavlng it .
We must have , when .
Hence , by ( 17 ) , and the other symmetrical formulae , we see that .
Hence , in the summation ' all the points , between which the point there is force , we see that the first term of the summed coefficients in , given by ( 9 ) above , shes in every case , except those of and , in each of which thel.e is only a single thus from ( 9 ) and ( 14 ) we find conRidcr$tio]l the cquilibrium of hin layer , in , under the influence nlerely propcr mutual forces , is intercsting , both in its to 's theory of capillary attrlction , and to lition of the of of surfaces of irregular it bc 1893 .
] Elasticity of a stal according to Boscovich .
, where .
( 20 ) .
The term.s given explicitly in ( 19 ) suffice to show by symmetry all the remaInlng terms represented by the \amp ; c S 17 .
Thus we see that with no limitation whatever to the number of neigbbours ' with sensible force on any one poinb , and with no simplifying assumption as to the law of force , we have in the quadratic for equal values for the coefficients of and and and and ; ca and ; and and .
These equalities the six relations promised for demonstration in S 5 .
S18 .
In the particular case of an equilateral assemblage , with axes OX , OY , OZ parallel to the three pairs of opposite edges of a tetrahedron of four nearest neighbours , the coefficients which we have found for all the products exccpt clearly vanish ; because in the complete sum a single homogeneous equilateral assemblage we have in the symnletrical terms .
Hence , and because for this case ( 21 ) , ( 19 ) becomes . .
( 22 ) , .
( 23 ) .
S19 . .
to Thomson and Taib 's 'Natural Philosophy , ' S695(7 ) , *w see that in our formula ( 22 ) denotes the rigidity-modulus elative to shearings parallel to the planes ; and that if we denote by the rigidity-modulus relative to shear1ng parallel to planes through OX , , OZ , and cutting , ( OZ , OX ) , at a1lgles of , and if denote the compressibility-modulus , we have ; . . . . . . . . .
( 24 ) ; * This formula is given for the of a body } is opic in respect to elasticity moduluses ; but from estigation in SS 681 , we see that our prescnt formula , ( 22 ) or , exprcsses the elastic enel.gy for the case of an elastic solid possessing cubic isotropy with unequal rigidities in respect to these two sets of shearings .
Lord Kelvin .
On the [ June 15 , and our expression ( 22 ) , for the elastic energy of the strained solid , becomes . . . .
S 20 .
Using in ( 24 ) the equality shown in ( 23 ) , we fiud ( 26 ) .
This remarkable relation between the two rigidities and the compressibility of an equilateral homogeneous assemblage of Boscovich at , oms was announced without proof in S27 of my paper on the " " Molecular Constiution of Matter * In it denotes what I called the facial rigidity , being rigidity relative to shearings parallel to the faces of the principal cube : and tfJe diagonal idity , being rigidity relative to parallel to any of the six diagonal planes through pairs of mutually remotest parallel edges of the same cube .
By ( 24 ) and ( 23 ) we see that if the law of force be such that . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 27 ) , we have , and the body constituted by the assemblage is wholly opic in its elastic ality .
this case ( 26 ) becomes as found by Navier and Poisson ; and thus we complete the demonstration of the statements of S5 above .
S 21 .
A case which is not uninkresting in to Boscovichian theory , and which is very interesting indeed in respect to mechanical engineering ( of which the relationship with Boscovich 's theory has been pointed oat and beautifully illustrated by M. Brillouin ) , the case of an equilateral homogeneous assemblage with forces only between each point and its twelve equidistant nearest neighbours .
The annexed ( fig. 2 ) represents the point and thrce of ils twelve nearest neighbours ( their distances ) , being in the middles of the near faces of the incipal cube shown in the ; and { ibree of its six next-nenrest hbours ( their distances ) , at X , , tho of the cube nearest to it ; and , at other corners of the cube , three other hbours , which are nextnext-next-neal.est tances 2 .
The points in the middles of the three remote sides of the cube , not seen in the diagram , are nextnext-nearest neighbours ( their distances ) .
* ' R. S. E. Proc July , 1889 ; CVII of my 'Math .
and Phys. Papcrs , ' vol. iu .
is to say , a cube to the pairs of opposite edgcs of edron of four ) bours .
'Conforences Scien titi et AlIocutions ' Lord elvin ) , traauites et ; P. Lugol et M. Brillouin : ) , lS93 , 1893 .
] Elasticity of a sfal according to Boscovich .
S 22 .
Confining our attention now to 's nearest bbours , we sce that the nine not shown in the in the middles of obtained by producing the lines , XO to equal distances beyond and completing the squares on all the of lines so obtained .
To see this more equal placed together , with faces in contact and each with one corncr at O. The pairs of faces in contact iLre four squares in each of the three planes cutting one another at ; and the centres of these twelve squares the twelve nearest neighbours of O. If we denote by the distance of ench of them from , we have for the coordinates of these twelve points as follows:\mdash ; , , , , , , . . . .
( 28 ) .
S 23 .
Suppose now to experience only from its twelve nearest : the summations of S18 will include just these twelve points with equal values of for yield cight terms to , and four to the aluc of in these sums is .
Thus we that , and .
( 29 ) .
and by ( 24 ) , we see that . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 30 ) .
Lord Kelvin .
On the [ June 15 , Thus we have the remarkable result that , relatively to the principal cube , the diagonal rigidity is half the facial rigidity when each point experiences force only from its twelve nearest neighbours .
This proposition was announced without proof in S ( 28 ) of " " Molecular Constitution of Matter * S 24 .
Suppose now the points in the middles of the faces of the cubes which in the equilateral assemblage are 's twelve equidistant nearest neighbours to be removed , and the assemblage to consist of points in simplest cubic ; that is to say , of Boscovichian points at the points of intersection of three sets of equidistant parallel planes dividing space into cubes .
Fig. 2 shows ; and , at X , , three of the six equidistant nearest neighbours which it has in the simple cubic arrangement .
Keeping with the same signification in respect to fig. 2 as before , we have now for the coordinates of 's six nearest neighbours : , .
Hence , and denoting by the value of for this case , we find , by S , and .
( 31 ) .
The explanation of ( facial rigidity zero ) is obvious when we consider that a cube for its edges twelve equal straight bars , with their ends jointed by threes at the eight corJlers , fords no resistance to change of the right angles of its faces to acute and obtuse angles .
S 25 .
Replacing now the Boscovich points in the middles of the faces of the cubes , from which we supposed them temporarily annulled S 24 , and putting the results of S 23 and S 24 together , we find for our equilateral homogeneous assemblage ibs elasticity moduluses as follows : ( S2 ) .
where , as we see by S 16 ( 20 ) above , ( 33 ) , being now taken to denote repulsion between any two of the points at any distance , which , lvith defined as S 10 , is the * ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. iii , p. 403 .
1893 .
] of a Crystal accordi , to .
71 meaning of .
To l.ender the solid , constituted of our homogeneous assemblage , elastically isotropic , we must , by S 19 ( 24 ) , have , and therefore , by ( 32 ) , .
S 26 .
The last of the six equilibrium equations S 16 ( 18 ) are fulfilled in virtue of symmetry in the case of an equilateral asof single points whatever be the law of force between them , and whatever be the distance between any point and its nearest neighbours .
The three of them requirs in the case of S 23 that ; and the case of ( 24 ) that , resuIts of which the interpretation is obvious and impoltant .
S27 .
The first three of the six equilibrium equations , S 16 ( 18 ) , applied to the case of S 25 , yield the equation:\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
; that is to say , if is repulsion or attraction between each point and its twelve nearest neighbours , there is attraction or repulsion of of its amount between each point and its six next-nearest , unless there are forces betweell more distant points .
This resuIt is easily verified by simple synthetical and geomet ] considerations of the equilibrium between a point and its twelve nearest and six nextnearest neighbours in an equilatersJ homogeneous assemblage .
The consideration of it is exceedingly interesting and important in respect to , and in illustration of , the .
of structures with redundant links or the-struts .
S28 .
Leaving , now , the case of an equilateral homogeneouf$ i1R- selnblage , let us COIlsider what we may call a scalenc assemblags , that is to say , an assemblage in which are three sets of pal.allsl rows of points , determinatcly fixed as follows , according to the Stcm first taught by avais : I. Just one set of rowf ; of points at consecutively test distances II .
Just one set of rows of points at consecutively -shortest distances III .
Just one set of rows of points at consecuti distances shorter than those of all other rows not in the plane of I and II .
the condition we may add the condition no1le of the angles between the three sets of rows is a right , in order that our assemblage may be whab we may call wholly scalene .
Jourual dc colc 1niquc , ' tomc .
xxxiii , pp. 1\mdash ; 128 : Lord Kelvin .
On the [ June 15 , S29 .
Let be the primary rows thus deterately found having any chosen point , , in common ; we have .
Thus and A are 's nearest bbours ; and and 's next-nearest neighbours ; and and 's nearest neighbours not in the plane AOB .
( It should be understood thav there may be in the plane AOB points which , tbough at greater distances from than and nearer to than are and S30 .
Supposing , now , BOC , , \amp ; c. , to be the acute between the three lines meeting in ; we have two equal and dichirally tetrahedrons of each ] of which each of the four faces is a scalene triangle .
That every angle and between the faces is acute we readily see , by remembering that OC and OC ' are shorter than the distances of from any otlJer of the points on the two sides of the plane AOB .
S31 .
As a preliminary to he ineering of an incompressible elastic solid according to , it is convenient now to consider a spec.ial case of scalene tetrahedron , in which from the four corners to the four opposite faces intersect in one point .
I do not know if the species of tetrahedron fulfils this condition has found a place in geometrical treatises , I am informed by Dr. Forsyth that it has appeared in Cambridge examination papers .
For my present purpose ib occurred to me thus : , QC be four lines of given lengths drawn from one point , Q. It is requ to draw them in such relative directions that the volume of the tetrahedron OABC is a maximum .
Whatever be the four given this problem clearly has one reaI solution and only : and if is such that the four planes BOC , COA , AOB , ABC cut ilarly by the lines , OQ , respectively , each produced ough Q. Thus we see that the special tetrahedron is defilled by four and conclude thal two equations among the six edges of the tetrahedron in general are required to makc it special tetl.ahedron .
S32 .
Hence we see the simple way of a special tetrahedron .
Choose as data three sides of one face and the length *Eilher of these may bc turned round so as to coillcide with ] image of the other in any plane mirror .
Either may be a pervel.t of the other ; as , according to usage of some writers , an object is called ) of another if one of them can bc to coinciclc with the ima , of the olher in a plane mirl.or example , right hanl lcft .
See " " Moleculal .
Constitution of Mutter S ( 45 ) , , ( i ) , .
and Phys. Papers , ' vol. iu , pp. 412\mdash ; 413 .
1893 .
] Elasticity of a C'rystal according to Boscovich .
perpendicular to it from the opposite angle .
The planes through this , and the angles of the , contain the perpenthese to the opposite faces of the tetrahedron , and thel.efore cut the opposito sides of triangle perpendicularIy .
, parenthetically , we have a proof of the known theorem o elementary geometry that the perpendiculars from the three of a triangle to the opposite sides intel.sect in one point .
) Let ABC FIG. 3 .
the chosen triangle and the point in which it cut by the perpendicular from , the opposite corner of the tetrahedron .
AS , BS , CS , produced through , cut the opposite sides ] , and we find the point by drawing two of these perpendiculars and taking their point of intersection .
The tetrahedroll is then found by drawing a line SO of the given perpendiculal to the plane of ABC .
( We have , parenthetically , an interesting geometrical .
The perpendiculars from to the planes of OBC , OCA , OAB cut OS the samo point ; SO being of any arbitl'arily chosen length .
) S33 .
I wish now to show how an incompressible homogeneous solid of wholly uration can be constructed without beyond Boscovich for material .
Consider , in scaleDe assemblage , the plane of the line A'OA any point and its nearest neighbours , and the line B'OB through the same point and its next-nearest neighbours .
To fix the idcas , and avoid circumlocutioIIS , we shall suppose this plane to be horizontal .
Con- cider the two planes of points nearest to the plane above it and below it .
of the acute-angled tetrahedron OABC , which we have been , is one of the points iu one of the nearest plaues , that above AOB we ] suppose .
And the corner of the equal and dichirally similar ] is one of points in tbc nearest pal.allel plane below .
All tho in the through corners of equal ally similar to OABC , and standing on tho horizontal glcs oriented Elasticity of a Crystat to Boscovich .
[ June 15 , as BOA .
All the points in the nearest plane below are corners of ahedrons chirally similar to OA'B'C ' placed downwards the triangles as B'OA ' .
The volume the tetrahedron OABC is of the volume of the parallelepiped , of which OA , OB , OC are conterminous edges .
Hence the sum of the volumes of all the upward tetrahedrons having their bases in one plane is of the volume of the space between large areas of these planes : and , therefore , the sum of all the ally similar tetrahedrons , such as OABC , is of the whole volume of the assemblage through any larger space .
Hence ftny homogeneous of the assemblage which does llot alter the volume of the tetrahedrons does not alter the of the solid .
Let the-struts OQ , , BQ , CQ be placed between any point within the tetrahedron and its four corners , and let these lie-struts be mechanically jointed together at , so that they may either push or pull at this point .
This is merely a mechanical way of stating the Boscovichian idea of a secondhomogeneous assemblage , equa , and similarly oriented to the first assemblage placed with one of its points at , and the others in the other corresponding positions relatively to the primary assemblage .
When it is done for all the tetrahedrons chirally similar to OABC , we find four the-strut ends at every point , or , or , or , for example , of the primary assemblage .
Let each set of these four ends be mechanically jointed together , so as to allow either push or pull .
A model of the curions structure thus formed was shown at the conversazione of the Royal Society of June 7 , 1893 .
It is for three dimensions of space what ordinary hexagonal netting is in a plane .
S34 .
Having thus constructed our model , alter its shape until we find its volume a maximum .
This brings the tetrahedron , OABC , be of the special kind defined in S 30 .
Suppose for the present the the-struts to be absolutely resistant against push and pull , that is to , to be each of constant length .
This secures that the volume of the whole assemblage is unaltered by any change of shape possible to it ; so that we have , in fact , the skeleton of an incompresibls and inextensible solid .
* Let now any forces whatever , subject to the law of uniformity in the assemblage , between the points of our primary assemblage : and , if we please , also between all the points of our second assemblage ; and between all the points of the two assemblages .
Let these forces fulfil the conditions of equilibrium ; of which the is described in S 16 and applied to find the eqnations of equilibrium for the simpler case of a single homogeneous assemblage there considered .
Thus we have an incompressible lastic *This result was given for an equilateral tetrahedronal asselnbla.ge in S67 of ' ' Molecular Constitution of latter ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 1893 .
] Ingnetic Qualities of lron .
solid ; and , as in S 17 above , we see that there are fifteen independent coefficients in the quadratic function of the strain-components expressing the work equired to produce an infinitesimal strain .
Thus we realise the result described in S 7 above .
S 35 .
Suppose now each of the four the-struts to be not infinitcly resistant againsb change of length , and to have a given modulus of longitudinal rigidity , which , for brevity , we shall call its stiffness .
By assigning alues to these four stiffnesses , and by supposing the ahedron to be freed from the two conditions making it our special tetrahedron , we have six quantities arbitraril assignable , by which , adding these six to the former fifteen , we maygive arbitrary values to each of the twenty-one coefficients in the quadratic function of the six with which we have to deal when change of bulk is allowed .
Thus , in strictest Boscovichian doctrine , we providefor twenty-one independent coefficients in Green 's energy-function .
The dynamical details of the consideration of he equilibrium of two homogeneous assemblages with mutual attraction between them , of the extension of SS 9\mdash ; 17 to the larger problem now before us , full of purely scientific and engineering interest , but must be reserved for what I hope is a future communication .
II .
" " lIagnetic ] ities of Iron By J. A. EWING , , F.R.S. , Professor of Mechanism and Applied Mechanics in the University of Cambridge , and liss HELEN G. Lecturcr in Physics , Newnham College .
Received June 7 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The paper desclibes a series of observations of magnetic in valious specimons of sheet iron and iron .
A principal object was to determine the amount of energy lost in consequence of magnetic hysteresis when the iron under ation was through cyclic magnetising processes between assigned limits of the netic induction B. For this purpose observations of the relation of the induction to the magnetic force were made , from curves were drawn , and the area enclosed by the curves in cyclic magnetising processes was measured .
Many such cycles were gone through in the of each of the specimens , the limits between which versed being varied step by step in succesve cycles , to alIow t relation of the encrgy expended or of I to to be determiued .
The curves of and in these graded cycles are drawn in the paper , as well , curves showing the relation of to and to H. Most of these experiments were made by the ballistic method , the specimens

