182 The Healing of Incisions in Vegetable Tissues .
[ Dec. 12 , but represent a true structural peculiarity of this tissue .
That these varicosities , which often continue in an uninterrupted lice across large fields of view , correspond with the course of set of fibres .
The varicosities may , therefore , be caused by the presence of this set of cross fibres .
The only alternative explanation which has occurred to me is that there may be a rhythmic , simultaneous action of all the ameloblasts concerned in the deposit of the material for enamel building .
The last theory seems to be less reasonable than the first.* 7th .
The Retzius bands are often as distinctly marked in forming as in mature teeth , and in teeth which have been kept constantly moist as they are in dried specimens .
The enamel rods are often seen to pass without break a , cross several of these bands .
The bands are principally due to a deposit of pigment , and not to imprisoned air or gas as claimed by von Ebner .
V. " The Healing of Incisions in Vegetable Tissues .
" By Samuel G. Shattock .
Communicated by Sir James Paget , Bart. , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) The five methods of wound repair in man and the higher animals :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Immediate union .
( 2 ) Primary adhesion .
( 3 ) Granulation .
( 4 ) Secondary adhesion .
( 5 ) Beneath a scab .
The third and fifth concern the healing of open wounds , and are referred to only incidentally .
Immediate Union , i.e. , union of the cells actually divided.\#151 ; Never observed .
Experiments made on the planule of Faba vulgaris .
Primary Adhesion.\#151 ; All growing parenchyma readily heals after incision .
Mode of experiment .
( a ) Healing by primary adhesion without separation of surfaces .
( 1 ) Without sclerosis of the , scar-tissue .
In the shoots of Aucuba .
Stages : Cell division on either side of the incision ; absence of suberisation ; interruption of the line of the adpressed remains of the opened cells by the interpolation of new .
The absence of cork formation not due to inability to form it .
( 2 ) With sclerosis of the scar-tissue .
In kohl-rabi .
The line of scar-tissue broken by the growth of indifferent parenchyma .
* Since the above was written , I have demonstrated that there is a simultaneous deposit of the spherical bodies over the entire surface of forming enamel.\#151 ; J. L. W. 1895 .
] Presents .
Fate of starch sheet into an incision .
Removed from slowly dying parts .
( b ) Healing by primary adhesion with partial separation of the faces of the incision from tension .
( 1 ) Without sclerosis .
In Faba vulgaris , without cork formation exposure , the incentive to production of cork .
Effusion of coagulable latex m petioles of Rheum , a hindrance to union .
( 2 ) With sclerosis of the callus cells .
Secondary Adhesion.\#151 ; The process that may be compared with that so named in animal pathology , viz. , union occurring between two surfaces previously healed by cork from exposure .
Two varieties : ( 1 ) Union betw'een the living cork-cells .
( 2 ) Union by indifferent perenchyma after disruption of the cork .
The first observed in the aerial roots of Philodendron .
_ The second in Echinocactus ; not the final stage of union in the callus formed from the cambium after stripping of bark or amputation in exogenous shrubs and trees .
Callus growth observed in rare cases from the medullary rays after exposure of wood .
Union by secondary adhesion in grafting .
The healing of incisions in plants corresponds , therefore , in general with that by primary and secondary adhesion in animal textures .
The analogy with secondai-y adhesion in the latter is not exact , however , because the two surfaces which coalesce are first healed by cork-tissue ; in animals they remain granulating* till brought together .
Presents , December 12 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Acireale:\#151 ; Accademia di Scienze , Lettere e Arti .
Atti e Rendi-conti .
Yol .
YI .
8vo .
Acireale 1895 .
The Academy .
Bucharest:\#151 ; Societafea de Sciinfe Fizice .
Buletinul .
Anul IY .
Nos. 9\#151 ; 10 .
8vo .
Bucuresci1895 .
The Society .
Buitenzorg:\#151 ; Jardin Botanique .
Annals .
Vol. XII .
Party 2 .
8vo .
Leide 1895 .
The Garden .
Frankfort-on the-Oder :\#151 ; Naturwissenschaftlicher Yerein .
Helios .
Jahrg .
XIII .
Xos .
1\#151 ; 6 .
8vo .
0 .
1895 ; Societatum Litterte .
Jahrg .
IX .
Nos. 4\#151 ; 9 .
8vo .
Frankfurt a. 0 .
1895 .
The Society .
Heidelberg:\#151 ; Universitiit .
Akademische Schriften .
1894-95 .
8vo .
The University .

