380 On some of the Subaxial Arches in [ Mar. 16 II .
" On the formation of some of the Subaxial Arches in Man/ By George W. Callender , Assistant Surgeon to , and Lee-turer on Anatomy at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by J. Paget , F.R.S. Received February 17,1871 .
( Abstract .
) In the term subaxial arches is included all those which grow out in front of the notochord .
The first forms the nasal passages , the second forms chiefly the superior maxilla , the third is the mandibular , the fourth the lingual , the fifth the hyoid , the sixth the laryngeal , whilst the seventh , which is distinguished as the exoccipital arch , forms the shoulder-girdle and the thoracic extremity of either side .
The consideration of the connexion of the first four with the cranial cartilages is for the present deferred ; and this communication relates to those arches which grow into the cervical region , and to that period of their growth which lies between the fifth and twelfth weeks of foetal life .
The fourth subaxial arch , the lingual , grows out below the mandibular , and bears upon its anterior extremity the tissue which developes into the tongue .
Its connexion with this anterior portion ceases to be recognized at an early period , and about the eleventh week it consists of five portions , ( 1 ) cartilage from the base of the skull , ( 2 ) a short piece of membrane , ( 3 ) a second very small rod of cartilage , these forming about one-half of its length , ( 4 ) a long strip of membrane , and ( 5 ) a nodule of cartilage within the lesser or anterior horn of the hyoid bone .
The fifth subaxial arch , the hyoid , grows in common with the sixth as a layer of membrane from the basioccipital region .
The posterior portion of it forms the middle constrictor muscle ; the remainder is cartilaginous , and grows into the greater or posterior horn and the body of the hyoid bone .
The sixth subaxial arch , the laryngeal , begins in membrane which forms the inferior constrictor .
Rising up and thickening in the front of the neck , it encloses the pharynx ; and its inner layer developes a septum , which separates this tube from the larynx .
In front , and between this inner layer and that in which the constrictor is formed , a mass of thick granular tissue becomes cartilage , and here the chief cartilages of the larynx are formed .
The details of their formation are referred to .
The thyroid body is developed in this arch , and it serves as a girdle to surround and keep in place the continuation of the air-tube towards the thorax .
Its relation to the branchial arches is also referred to .
After mentioning the reason for calling the seventh arch the exoccipital , its growth from the basioccipital and exoccipital cartilage regions is described , with its ending in two processes which grow out as the clavicle and the scapula .
The relations of the clavicle to the sternum and first rib are related , as also its change in direction from a nearly vertical to a hori- tr ~Wh^outsbom Proc. Roy .
Soc. Vot .i WWset* C ' imp .
WB'.WealeyliJtk 1871 .
] On the Successive Polarization of Light .
381 zontal position .
The curling round of the scapula-rod is described , and the outgrowth from the rod of plates of bone bounded by the acromial , glenoid , and coracoid borders .
The relations of the sterno-mastoid , trapezius , and levator anguli scapulae muscles are referred to .
The growth of the glenoid cavity outwards from the acromion and coracoid is noticed at about the eleventh week , at which period the scapula has acquired its chief permanent characters .
March 23 , 1871 .
General Sir EDWARD SABINE , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. " Experiments on the Successive Polarization of Light ; with the description of a new Polarizing Apparatus .
" By Sir Charles Wheatstone , E.R.S. Received Feb. 2 , 1871 .
I. The term successive polarization was applied by Biot to denote the effects produced when a ray of polarized light is transmitted through a plate of reck\#151 ; crystal cut perpendicularly to the axis , or through limited depths of certain liquids .
In these cases the plane of polarization is found to be changed on emergence , and differently for each homogeneous ray ; so that , when white light is employed , on turning the analyzer round continuously in one direction different colours successively appear , rising or falling in the scale according to the nature of the substance .
If , while the analyzer is turned from left to right , the tints ascend ( i. e. follow the order B , O , Y , G , B , P , Y ) , the substance is said to exhibit right-handed successive polarization , but if the tints descend , the successive polarization is said to be left-handed .
These phenomena were satisfactorily explained by Fresnel in the following way .
The incident polarized ray , instead of resolving itself into two plane-polarized rays at right angles to each other , as in the ordinary cases of dipolarization , resolves itself in these instances into two circularly polarized rays , one right-handed the other left-handed , which are transmitted with different velocities ; each homogeneous ray , thus resolved into two opposite circularly polarized pencils , on emergence composes a ray polarized in a single plane , the deviation of which from the primitive plane of polarization depends on the difference of phase of the two circularly polarized rays on emergence .
The rotation of the planes of polarization is from left to right , or from right to left , according to whether the right-handed or left-handed circular rays are transmitted with the greater velocity .
II .
The term dipolarization , proposed by Dr. Whewell to express the VOL. XIX .
2 G

