V. Analysis Geometrica , sive nova &amp; vera Methodus Resolvendi , tam Problemata Geometrica , quam Arithmeticas Quaestiones .
Pars prima , de Planis ; Authore D. Antonio Hugone de Omerique Sanlucarense .
Sold by Sam .
Smith and Benj .
Wlaford at the Prince 's in St. Paul 's Church-yard London .
THE Author of this Book being of opinion that the Method of deducing Geometric Demonstrations from an Algebraic Calculation , is forced and unnatural , has studied how to find an Analysis purely Geometrical , from which a Synthesis might easily be derived , according to the Method of the Ancients .
He begins with an Introduction consisting of about twenty Geometric Propositions ; which are so many Lemmas , in order to make his Analysis the more easy ; the chief Proposition of his Introduction , and which he has occasion to use most , is this : To find two lines whose sum or difference is given , that shall be reciprocal to two given lines ; this comprehending the Construction of Quadratic Equations .
He divides the rest of his Book into Four Parts .
In the First he considers those Problems that are solved by simple Proportions .
In the 2d .
he considers those that are solved by using Compound Ratio .
In the 3d .
he resolves those wherein it is necessary to consider Quantities connected by the Signs ~ and - , And in the 4th .
he considers Indeterminate Problems .
He prefixes to his First Part some General Rules how to proceed in a Geometric Investigation ; and because these Rules contain what is most material his Method , we think it not improper to relate 'em as he has laid 'em down himself .
10 .
An unknown Line is always terminated in an unknown Point ~ hence to avoid confusion , the unknown Points ought to be Denoted with the last Letters of the Alphabet v , z , y , x , &amp;c. to distinguish 'em from the known Points a , b , c , d , &amp;c. and if there is occasion , one and the same Point may be denoted with two Letters , when a known and unknown Line concur in it .
First Definition .
Additive Ratio is that whose Terms are disposed to Addition , that is , to Composition .
Substractive Ratio is that whose Terms are disposed to Subtraction , that is , to Division .
abxc Let the Line a c , be divided in the Points b , and x , the Ratio between ab , and bx , is Additive ; because the Terms ab , and bx , compose the whole ax ; but the Ratio between ax and bx is Subtractive , because the Terms ax , and bx , differ by the Line ab .
20 .
The same order of the Letters which is in the Figure , ought to be kept in your Analysis , that so by mere Inspection you may know whether the Ratio is Additive or Subtractive ; and consequently whether you ought to Compose or Divide .
30 .
When you are to argue by Proportions , and the Proportion lies in a Right Line , you have no other way to proceed on but by Composition or Division : Therefore if both Ratios are Additive , you must argue by Composition ; if both Subtractive , by Division ; so as always to use that way of arguing which is the fittest for the preservation of those Terms that are known ; but when one Ratio is Additive and th'other Subtractive , the Additive must either be made Subtractive , or the Subtractive Additive ; Now this change it wrought by repeating either Term .
abed For if we design to change the Additive Ratio of ab to bd , into Subtractive , let bc be made equal to ab , and thus the Ratio of bc to bd , that is , of ab to bd , will be Subtractive ; and likewise , if the Subtractive Ratio of bd to bc was to be made Additive , it is but making ab equal to bc .
40 .
This is always to be observed , when the Terms of the Ratio which is to be reduced , are known ; but if they are unknown , and their Sum or Difference is known , it is often convenient to use the 7th .
and 8th .
Proposition of the Introduction by means of which the difference of the Terms of an Additive Ratio , or the sum of the Terms of a Subtractive one , may be expressed , whence you may argue by Division or Composition .
Now the 7th .
Proposition of the Introduction is this ; If a Right Line is Divided into two equal Parts , and into two unequal Parts , the middle part is the half difference of the unequal parts .
The 8th .
Proposition is this ; If a Right Line is Divided into two equal parts , and a Right Line is added to it , that which is compounded of the half and of the Line added , is the half sum of the Line that is added , and of that which is compounded of the whole and the Line added .
Second Definition .
That Ratio we call Common which is Common to two Proportions whether it be Direct or Reciprocal ; Let there be two Proportions a b : : d , e , and b , c : , : e , l , having the same Terms b and e , and constituting a Direct Ratio , this Ratio we call Common , because it is Common to both Proportions : In like manner let there be two Proportions a , b : : e , l and b , c : : d , e , each having the same Terms b and e which constitute a Reciprocal Ratio , this Ratio we call Common , because it is Common to both Proportions .
50 .
Therefore if two Proportions have a Common Ratio , we may argue by Equality ; but if a Common Ratio is wanting , it must be introduced , that we may proceed farther , which will be done by the Reduction of some Ratio into another equal to it .
Likewise if a Proportion lies in a Triangle or any other Figure , you must use a new Proportion by repeating some Angle , that is , by changing its Position , that so you may have two equal Terms in two different Proportions , and so may argue by Equality : Hence it is evident that , that Angle ought to be transposed , which together with the other Angles and Sides of the Figure , shows the most convenient similitude of Triangles .
60 .
Now what is sought being assumed as granted , all our endeavours must be to retain in arguing those magnitudes which are already known , and to extinguish as much as we can the unknown Point , and the Analyst understanding where to use Additive or Subtractive Ratio in one Proportion , and how to Introduce a Common Ratio in two Proportions , if it be wanting , will come to the end of thisResolution by necessary consequences : Now this end is obtained when the unknown Magnitude is found equal to some known Magnitude , or the unknown Point is in one Term , which is a 4th .
Proportional , or in two Terms either Means or Extremes whose sum or difference is known , for a 4th .
Proportional , or two Reciprocals will do it .
70 .
The Analysis being ended , the order of the Construction and Demonstration is evident , for nothing else is required for the Construction , but what has , or is supposed to have been done in the Analysis , and for the Demonstration , nothing but to begin from the end of the Analysis and proceed to the beginning of it , observing that where the Analysis argues by Alternate or Inverted Propositions , the Synthesis argues by the same , and that where the Analysis Compounds , the Synthesis Divides , and vice versa .
But to make those Rules more useful , it wo n't be amiss to show the applications he has made of 'em in the solution of some Problems , and because there is a great variety of 'em in his Book , we will chuse a few of the most remarkable as Rules in cases of the like nature .
PROBLE M. ahxcq The Line ac being divided at pleasure in b to divide it again in x between b and c so that ax xc , bx be proportional .
Analysis .
Let therefore ax , xc : : xc , bx. and Componendo ac , xc : : bc , bx. and Alternando ac , bc : : xc , bx. Let cq be made = bc , cq and Componendo aq , cq : : bc , bx. Therefore the Problem is solved .
Construction .
Let the Construction be made as before .
Demonstration .
For since , by the Construction , aq is to cq as bc to bx. Therefore Dividendo ac is to cq that is to bc , as xc to bx and Alternando ac is to xc , as be to bx. Therefore Dividendo ax , is to xc as xc to bx , which was to be done .
amxbpc PROBLEM The Line ac being Divided in b to Divide it again in x between a and b so that ax , xc , xb be Proportional .
Now because in the Proportion ax , xc : : ax , xb , the first Ratio is Additive and the second Subtractive it is evident that the Additive must either be made Subtractive , or the Substractive Additive .
But because the Terms are unknown , let ac be bisected in m , and 2mx will be the Difference of the Parts ax , xc ; likewise let bc be bisected in p , and 2xp .
will be the sum of the Parts xc and xb ; whence one may proceed by Composition or Division .
Analysis .
Let ax , xc : : xc , xb Theref .
Componendo ac xc : : 2xp , xb and half .
the Antecedents mc , xc : : xp , xb and Convertendo mc mx : : xp , bp Therefore the Problem is solved .
Because the Point x being only in the middle Terms , we can proceed no farther .
And because there is nothing from whence we may infer which of the two mx and xp is the greatest , it will be in our choice to take mx either for the greatest or the least part , and there will be two Solutions for which there is one Demonstration .
Construction and Demonstration .
Let ac be bisected in m and bc in p , and to mc and bp or pc let two Reciprocals mx and xp be found whose sum be mp , I say the thing is done .
For by the Construction mc , mx : : xp , bp , Therefore Convertendo mc , xc : : xp , xb and doubling the Antecedents ac , xc : : 2xp , xb , but 2xp is the sum of the Terms xc and xb ; therefore Dividendo ac , xc : : xc , xb , which was to be done .
PROBLE M. axbycq To Divide the given Lines ab bc in x and y so that ay be to xc as f to g and xb to yc as h to k. Conditions .
ay xc : : f , g and xb yc : : h , k. Analysis .
Let therefore ay , xc : : f , g. and also xb yc : : hc , k. or bc , cq .
And as the sum of the Antecedents to the sum of the Consequents , so one Antecedent to its Consequent .
Therefore xc , yq : : h k. or g l. Therefore by Equality ay , yq : : f , l. Construction and Demonstration .
Let h be to k , as bc to cq , and so g to l , Let aq be be Divided in y in the Ratio of f to l , and let ay be to xc as f to g. I say that xb , yc : : h , k. for since by the Construction ay yq : : f , l ; and ay to xc as f to g : by Equality xc will be to yq , as g to l that is as bc to cq and because the difference of the Antecedents is to the difference of the Consequents , as one Antecedent to its Consequent , xb will be to yc as bc to cq , that is , as b to k , which was to be done .
PROBLE M. A Square or Rhombus abed being given to draw from the Angle d to the opposite side produced ab a right line dxy , and to make xy equal to a right Line given m. z aby x dc Let therefore xy be equal to m. by the 2d .
of the 6th .
Book of Euclid ab , die : : dx , xy .
Let the Angle dxz be = dby .
and because the Triangles dxz , dby are Similar , db , by : : dx , xz .
Therefore by Equality db , ab : : xy , xz .
But the Angle xbz = dby or dxz .
Therefore the Triangles dxz , xbx are Similar Therefore dz , xz : : xz , bz .
Construction and Demonstration .
Let db be to ab , as m to g , and let dz , bz whose difference is db be found reciprocal to g. Set off from the point z the Line zx equal to g , and through x draw dxy , I say that xy is equal to the given line m. For since by the Construction dz is to g as g to bz , that is dz is to xz as xz to bz : , The Triangles dzx , bzx will be Similar , Therefore the Angle dxz will be equal to the Angle xbz , that is , to the Angle dby ( for the Angles dby and xbz are equal , because dbc in a Square or Rhombus is equal to the Angle abd , or its equal ybz , hence adding the common Angle xby , the Angles dby xbz will be equal .
) Therefore since the Triangles dzx , dby have the Angles dxz and dby equal , and the Angle bdx common , they will be similar , and therefore db will be to by as dx to xz that is to g ; but because ad , bx are paralle , ab will be to by as dx to xy .
Therefore by Equality ab is to db as g to xy .
But by the Construction ab is to db as g to m , Therefore xy is equal to m. Which was to be done .
PROBLE M. A Circle xyz being given by Position , and two Points in it a and b being given , to draw the Lines ax , xb so that yz shall be Parallel to ab .
x d b a c ~ z y ANALYSI S. Let therefore yz be parallel to ab Therefore the Angle abx = yzx Let the Angle ayv be made = abx Therefore the Angle ayv = yzx Therefore x , v , y , b , are in a Circle Therefore the Rectangle vay = xay But the Rectangle xay = any Rectangle through a Theref .
the Rectangle vab = any Rectangle through a. Construction and Demonstration .
Let the Rectangle vab be made equal to any Rectangle through ~ such as cad , let the Tangent vi be drawn through a let the line yx , and through b the line xz be drawn , let yz be joined , I say that yz is parallel to ab .
For since the Rectangle vab has been made equal to cad , and xay is equal to the same , the Rectangles vab xay will be equal : Therefore the points x , v , y , b , will be in a Circle , and the Angles ayv , abx upon the same Line xv will be equal , but because vi touches the Circle xyz and xy cuts it , the Angle ayv is equal to yzx .
Therefore the Angles yzv abx will be equal , Therefore the Lines yz ab will be paralle , which was to be done .
The following Problem is taken out of the second Book .
PROBLE M. The Line ad between b and c being Divided in b and a , to Divide it again in x so that the Rectangle axb be to the Rectangle dxc as mp to gp .
abxcdfk mgpy ANALYSI S. Let therefore axb dxc : : mp , gp Therefore if you make ax , xd : : mp , pie And also bx , xc : : pie gp The Problem will be solved , for the products of the Analogous Terms will restitute the Proportion .
Let therefore ax , xd : : mp , pie and Componendo ax , ad : : mp , my Let mg , mp , ad , ak be proportional ak mg Let also bx , xc : : pie , gp and componends bc , xc : : gy , gp Let bc , cf , mg , gp be proportional cf mg Therefore Componendo xf , xc : : my , mg and by equality xf , xc : : ak , ax and ~ xs , cf : : ak , xk The following Problem is taken out of the third Book .
PROBLE M. The Line ac being divided any where in b , to divide it again in x between b and c so that the Rectangle axb shall be equal to the Rectangle bxc together with the double square of xc .
abxcds ANALYSI S. Let therefore axb = bxc + 2xcx But by 3 .
2 .
El .
bcx = bxc + xcx Therefore axb = bcx + xcx Let cd be made = bc , theref .
bcx = dcx Therefore axb = dcx =+ xcx that is by 3 .
2 .
El .
axb = dxc Therefore ax , xc : : xd , bx and Componendo ax , xc : : db , bx Let cf be made = bd cf and as the sum of the Antecedents , to the sum of the Consequents .
So one Antecedent to its Consequent .
Therefore af , bc : : cf , bx. Therefore the Problem is solved .
Construction and Demonstration .
Let cd and df be made equal to bc , and let af , bc , cf , bx , be proportional , I say the thing is done .
For since af , bc : : cf , bx , and the difference of the Antecedents to the difference of the Consequences as one Antecedent is to its Consequent , ac will be to xc , as cf or bc to bx , and the Rectangle axb will be equal to the Rectangle dxc , that is , to the Rectangle dcx together with the Square of ~ or ( because bc and cd are equal ) to the Rectangle bcx with the Square of xc ; But the Rectangle bcx is equal to the Rectangle bxc and the Square of xc : Therefore the Rectangle axb is equal to the Rectangle bxc , and the double Square of xc .
Which was to be done .
The following Proposition is taken out of the 4th .
Book .
PROBLE M. Two Points a and b being given , to draw the two Lines ax xb , whose Squares together shall be equal to the Square given gg .
x pambyd Le axb whose height is xy be the Triangle required .
Bisect ab in m and draw mx. ANALYSI S. Let therefore axa + xbx = gg But by the 13th.of the Introd .
axa + xbx = 2ama + 2mxm Therefore gg = 2ama ~ 2mxm or gg-2ama = 2mxm Therefore the Problem is solved , but the Length of mx being given and not its Position , it is evident that it may be the Semidiameter of a Circle whose Circumference shall be the Locus of the point x. Construction and Demonstration .
From the Square given gg Subtract the double Square of am , the Square root of half the remainder shall be the line mx , with the Center m and distance mx , describe the Circle pxd , I say that any point x taken in its Circumference re-solves the Problem .
For since the double of the Squares of am and xm is equal to the Square gg , by the Construction , and by the 13th .
Proposition of the Introduction to the Squares ax and xb : The two Squares ax and xb together will be equal to the Square gg .
Which was to be done .

