PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
1839 .
No. 40 .
Nov. 21 , 1839 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
The following gentlemen were , by ballot , elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts , on the part of the Society , viz. Thomas Bell , Esq. , Bryan Donkin , Esq. , Edward Forster , Esq. , Major Edward Sabine , R.A. , and John Taylor , Esq. No paper read .
November 30 , 1839 .
At the Anniversary Meeting , The MARQUIS of NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair , Mr. Forster , on the part of the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Ac ?
counts , reported that the total receipts during the last year , inclusive of a balance of ?
1463 14* .
5d .
, carried from the account of the preceding year , amounted to ?
4349 11* .
4d .
: that the total payments in the same period amounted to ?
2541 1* .
9d .
, leaving a balance in the hands of the Treasurer of ?
1808 9* .
ld .
The thanks of the meeting were given to the Auditors for the trouble they have taken in examining the Treasurer 's accounts .
The Secretary read the following list of deceased Fellows of the Royal Society since the last anniversary in 1838 ; of those who have ceased to be Fellows in default of their annual payments ; and of Fellows admitted into the Royal Society since the last anniversary .
List of deceased Fellows of the Royal Society since the last Anni ?
versary ( 1838 ) .
On the Home List , viz. The Rev. Archibald Alison .
j Wiliiam Beetham , Esq. Robert Bree , M.D. Edward Coleman , Esq. The Rev. John Corrie .
The Rev. Martin Davy , D.D. Richard Gregory , Esq. Edmund H. Lushington , Esq. , M.A. Wiliiam Macmichael , M.D. The Earl of Mount-Edgecumbe , D.C.L. Whitlock Nicholl , M.D. The Lord Bishop of Peterborough ( Herbert Marsli ) .
Stephen Peter Rigaud , Esq. , M.A. Isaac Robinson , Esq. Sir Wiliiam Russell , Bart. , M.D. Sir John St. Aubyn , Bart. The Rev. Thomas Sampson , D.D. George Saunders , Esq. Charles Short , Esq. John Storer , M.D. On the Foreign List , viz. Picrre Prevost , of Geneva .
Le Baron de Prony , of Paris .
Ceased to be Fellows in default of their annual payments , viz. Colonel Sir Andrew Leith Hay .
John Augustus Lloyd , Esq. Charles Henry Oaks , Esq. , M.A. List of Admissions into the Royal Society since the last Anniversary ( 1838 ) .
On the Home List , viz. Sir Thomas Dykc Acland , Bart. .
M.P. George Barker , Esq. Bcriah Botfield , Esq. Lord Carrington .
Arthur Conolly , Esq. ( Captain , Bengal Service .
) Charles Darwin , Esq. , M.A. Edward Davies Davenport , Esq. i Henry Mangles Denham ( Commander , R.N. ) .
Richard Drew , Esq. Arthur Far , M.B. Thomas William Fletcher , Esq. William James Frodsham , Esq. The Rev. Thomas Gaskin , M.A. George Godwin , jun .
, Esq. John Thomas Graves , Esq. , M.A. Edwin Guest , Esq. George Gulliver , Esq. James Orchard Halliwell , Esq. Peter Hardy , Esq. James Heywood , Esq. John Hilton , Esq. John Hog , Esq. , M.A. The Rev. Philip Kelland , M.A. Gilbert Wakefield Mackmurdo , Esq. The Rev. Samuel Roffy Maitland .
The Rev. Henry Mosely , M.A. H. Alexander Ormsby ( Lieute ?
nant , Indian Navy ) .
Lieut.-Col. Wiliiam Reid , R.E. Robert Rigg ' , Esq. Wiliiam Sharpey , M.D. Clement Swanston , Esq. James Joseph Sylvester , Esq. The Venerable Charles Thorp , D.D. The Rev. Charles Turnor , M.A. John Wesley Williams , Esq. James Yates , Esq. , M.A. On the Foreign List , viz Louis Agassiz .
Christopher Hansteen .
Carl .
Fried .
Philip von Martius .
Macedoine Melloni .
Lambert Adolphe Jacques Quetelet .
Felix Savart .
The President then addressed the meeting as follows : Gentlemen , A year having now elapsed since you conferred upon me the highly honourable office of your President , it becomes my duty , in accord ?
ance with the example of my predecessors , to address you .
The first and most agreeable part of my task is to express my feelings of gratitude to those Gentlemen whom you were pleased to select as my Council .
I am most highly indebted to them for the zealous co-operation and hearty assistance which I have ever reecived at their hands .
It is to them that I have looked to aid my inexperience , and to supply my manifold deficiencies , and I have not been disappointed .
To those who are the more permanent officers of the Society , the Treasurer and the Secretaries , my obligations are particularly great , and I will venture to add , that to them , as well as to the other mem ?
bers of the Council , your thanks are due as well as mine .
The past year has indeed been to that portion of the Royal Society which takes an active part in its affairs , one of more than usual labour and exertion , ?
of labour and exertion , destined , as I hope , to produce rich and ample fruit .
The great and marking peculiarity which has attended it , has been the sailing of the Antarctic Expe ?
dition .
The importance of following up in the southern regions of the globe the magnetic inquiries so interesting to men of science in Europe , was strongly felt by one of our distinguished Fellows , Ma ?
jor Sabine , and by him brought before the notice of the British As ?
sociation at their meeting at Newcastle , as he had also previously done at Dublin .
That great assemblage of men of science , concurring in the views of Major Sabine , resolved to suggest to Her Majesty 's Government the propriety of sending out a scientific ex ?
pedition ; and the Royal Society lost no time in warmly and zealously seconding the recommendation .
It would , Gentlemen , be an idle inquiry to ask whether the success of the application be owing to the British Association or to the Royal Society .
It would seem , indeed , probable , that , eonsidering the financial difficulties of the time , the Government might have hardly considered itself justified in yielding to the prayers of either body separately on this occasion ; and if to the British Association be the glory of the first proposal of this Expedition , to the Royal Society belongs the praise of perse ?
verance in seconding the recommendation , and of laborious and earnest endeavours to aid in rendering it in every respect as efficient as possible .
It is my duty as your President to return my thanks and yours to Lord Melbourne , Lord Minto , Lord Monteagle , Sir Hussy Vivian , and Sir Richard Jenkins , the Chairman of the Ho ?
nourable Court of Directors of the East India Company , for tho urbanity and kindness with which they have received and acted on the suggestion of your Council , and for the confidence which the Government reposed in us , when they asked for our assistance in instructing the officers to whom the Expedition has been entrusted .
In compliance with the request conveyed to us by the First Lord of the Admiralty , the Council transmitted to the Government a body of hints and instructions in different branches of science , which I trust are likely to be of material use both to the principal and to the subsidiary objects of tho Antarctic Expedition .
These hints and instructions would have been far less extensive and efficient if the Council had not been able to have recourse to the several Scientific Committees , of whose formation the Society is already aware .
The Expedition has now sailed , amply provided with the best scientific instruments and furnished with ample scien ?
tific instructions : it is commanded by one well acquainted both with magnetic inquiry and nautical research .
We may therefore hope that , with the blessing of Providence , it will return with a store of knowledge valuable to the geographer , to the geologist , to the meteorologist , and to him also who studies the marvels of vegetable and animal life .
In addition to all this we may hope , that the main object of the Expedition will be accomplished by additional light thrown on the obscure problems which still attend the magnetism of the earth , and that by such discoveries Captain James Clark Ross may not only add to his own reputation and his country 's glory , but also give to the adventurous mariner increased facility and security in traversing the pathways of the ocean .
The Antarctic Expedition was not the only measure recommended by the Royal Society and the British Association to Her Majesty 's Government .
Another important recommendation , which had pre ?
viously been brought forward by Baron Humboldt , was the establish ?
meant of fixed magnetic observatories for the purpose of making si ?
multaneous observations in different parts of our colonial possessions .
These recommendations have been readily acceded to , both by the Government and by the Court of Directors of the East India Com ?
pany , and probably , ere many months shall have elapsed , the observatories will be in full activity .
This ready acquiescence in the wishes of men of science appears to me highly creditable to our statesmen ; and I feel confident , that while science belongs to no party , on the other hand , every party in this country is fully aware of the importance of science , and of the numerous benefits conferred by it on the human race .
I have stated , Gentlemen , that your Council had recourse to the Seientific Committees for assistance in drawing up instructions for the Expedition in different branches of knowledge ; those com ?
mittees , who were nained only two years ago , were at first appareutly more a matter of form than substance ; they have now been found capable of doing excellent service .
Not only has your Coun ?
cil eonsulted them on the questions already alluded to , but also , observing that the several Committees are composed of the most competent judges of the merits of the memoirs in the respective departments of science communicated to the Society , they have , in general , referred the papers to them to report upon , previousty to coming to a decision regarding their publication .
The Royal Society , from its character of pursuing every branch of physical science , is evidently in a different position from other societies professing some one science alone .
It may be reasonably expected , that in the Botanical or Geological Society , for instance , the whole Council should possess a certain degree of botanical or geological knowledge .
This , however , cannot be the case with us .
Our Council will comprise a few astronoiners , a few zoologists , a few botanists , and a few persons well acquainted with geology and medicine ; but no single science can monopolize a large number of its members .
In difncult questions we have therefore felt that it is more satisfactory to ourselves , and we think probably more so to the general body of the society , and to those who have favoured us with papers , that we should ask the opinion of a larger number of men conversant with the immediate sciences in question .
At the same time , the Council retains its responsibility for its acts , and the chief officers of the society are officially members of each of the scientific committees .
The Council have derived a further assistance from these Com ?
mittees in the adjudication of our medals .
In naming these Com ?
mittees , the Council has had both a difficult and a delicate task .
Convinced that bodies , when too numerous , are little adapted for business , they have also felt that the power of giving their attendance might be more important than absolute superiority of scien ?
tific attainments .
Some members have , however , been selected , though really non-resident , because it was believed that their collcagues might wish to consult them by letter .
With these objects and views , the Council have done their best ; but they have little doubt that some gentlemen have been overlooked and omitted , whose presence in the Committees might have been very desirable .
The Society must consider this as in some degree a new system , to be perfected and improved by experience alone .
Another question has occupied a share of the time of the Coun ?
cil during the last year .
We have felt that the testimonial of re ?
commendation for new Fellows has scarcely been sufficiently defi ?
nite and precise in stating the grounds on which the candidate was recommended to the body of the Society .
We have therefore thought it desirable to draw up forms of testimonial , some one of which may be adopted as most fit for each individual so recom ?
mended .
We have thought this more fair , at the same time , to the meritorious candidate and to those electors who are otherwise left in the dark with respect to his claims for their suffrages .
We hope and trust that this new regulation will not stand in the way of any candidate who would be a desirable addition to our number .
The labours of our tried and valuable officer , Mr. Roberton , ha ?
ving materially increased , partly in consequence of the establish ?
meant of Scientific Committees , and partly from other causes , and those labours having also become more valuable from the lengthened experience of many years spent in our service , it has appeared to us an act of mere justice to augment his salary from ?
160 to ?
200 per annum .
The Society are doubtless aware , that , at the time of the last An ?
niversary , no final settlement had taken place of the pecuniary claim of Mr. Panizzi , who had commenced the Catalogue of our Library , though that gentleman had received a considerable sum on account .
Feeling that it was very desirable to bring this question to a termination , we agreed to a reference ; and Mr. Drinkwater Bethune having been proposed by Mr. Panizzi , and agreed to by us , that gentleman has decided that a balance of ?
328 is still due by us .
The vacancies in the list of our Foreign Members have been supplied by the election of M. Savart of Paris , Signor Melloni of Parma , M. Quetelet of Brussels , M. Hansteen of Christiana , Prof. Agassiz of Neufchatel , and M. von Martius of Munich , as those Fellows who were present at their election will remember .
I have to announce to you , Gentlemen , with great regret , the retirement of Captain Smyth from the office of Foreign Secretary , in consequence of his leaving his present residence for one at an inconvenient distance from London .
I shall not detain you by any observations of the finances of the Royal Society , as you will shortly hear the report of the Treasurer on that subject .
I have the honour , Gentlemen , to inform you that the Council have , by an unanimous decision , awarded the Royal Medals to Dr. Martin Barry and Mr. Ivory , and the Copley Medal for the year to Mr. Robert Brown ; and I shall now beg leave to address myself to those three Gentlemen .
Dr. Barry ?
it gives mesincerc pleasure to bestow this medal on a gentleman who has so well deserved it , by researches in a difficult and important portion of animal physiology* .
Your merits have been appreciated by men much more capable of understanding the subject than I can pretend to be ?
by men selected by the Council of the Royal Society for their physiological science , who have felt the great value of the discoveries you have made by accurate and diligent research , aided by the skilful use of the microscope .
1 trust that the award of this medal will encourage you to persevere in the same course , and that future discoveries may add to your reputation and to that of the important profession to which you belong .
Mr. Ivory ?
it is not the first time that you have been addressed from this chair , and it gives me great satisfaction to follow the steps of my predecessors , Sir Joseph Banks and Sir H. Davy , by again bestowing a medal on one who is an honour to the Royal Society and pre-eminently distinguished for his mathematical attainments .
The labours of your life are too well known to the scientific world to require any eulogium from me , and I consider that in this tribute to your paper on astronomical refraction , we are rather doing an honour to ourselves than to you .
Mr. Brown ?
in conferring the Copley Medal on you for your valuable discoveries in vegetable impregnation* , I am quite sure that the voice of scientific Europe will respond to the decision of the Council of the Royal Society .
The Academy des Sciences has already pronounced on your merits , as also on those of Mr. Ivory , by electing you as well as that gentleman to a seat among their foreign members ; and the University of Oxford has also , by an honorary degree , given you a similar testimonial .
That you are one of our fellows is to myself a circumstance peculiarly agreeable , as it must be to the whole body over whom I have the honour to preside .
Your discoveries in the particular botanical question , for which I have to give you the Copley Medal , are so important , not only in a botanical , but also in a general scientific point of view , by showing the close analogies of animal and vegetable life , that the Committee of Zoology have felt it as much their province as that of the Committee of Botany , to recommend that the Copley Medal should be bestowed upon you ; and the Council have come to an unanimous resolution to give it , though at the same time other gen ?
tlemen were recommended by other scientific committees , with whom even an unsuccessful rivalry would bc no mean praise .
I hope , Mr. Brown , that you may long enjoy life and leisure to pursue researches so valuable to science and so honourable to the country of which you are a native .
In drawing up the following notice of the losses which the Royal Society has sustained during the last year , in conformity with the practice of my predecessors , I have availed myself of the assistance of one of the Fellows , whose acquaintance with the labours of men of science peculiarly qualified him for the execution of a task which I could not myself have ventured to undertake .
I therefore will not longer occupy your time by any further remarks of my own , but will conclude by the expression of my present wishes for the prosperity of the Royal Society , and for its success in furthering the noble ends for which it was instituted .
The Rev. Martin Davy was originally a member of the me ?
dical profession , which he followed , during a great part of his life , with no inconsiderable reputation .
He became a medical student of Caius College in 1787 , and was elected to a fellowship in 1793 and to the mastership in 1803 , the late illustrious Dr. Wollaston being one of his competitors .
One of the first acts of his administration was to open his College to a more large and liberal competition , by the abolition of some mischievous and unstatutable restrictions , which had been sanctioned bylong custom , and also by making acade ?
mical merit and honours the sole avenue to college preferment : and he lived to witness the complete success of this wise and liberal measure , in the rapid increase of the number of high academical honours which were gained by members of his College , and by the subsequent advancement of many of them to the highest professional rank and eminence .
Some years after his accession to the mastership , he took holy orders and commuted the degree of Doctor in Medicine for that of Theology , and in later life he was collated to some considerable ecclesiastical preferments .
Dr. Davy had no great acquaintance with the details of accurate science , but he was remarkable for the extent and variety of his attainments in classical and general literature ; his conversation was eminently lively and original , and not less agreeable from its occasional tendency to somewhat paradoxical , though generally harmless speculations .
He died in May last , after a long illness , deeply lamented by a large circle of friends , to whom he was endeared by his many social and other virtues .
Dr. Herbert Marsii , Bishop of Peterborough , and one of the most acute and learned theologians of his age , became a member of St. John 's College in the University of Cambridge in the year 1775 and took his B.A. degree in 1779 , being second in the list ofWranglers , which was headed by his friend and relation Mr. Thomas Jones , a man whose intellectual powers were of the highest order , and who for many years filled the office of tutor of Trinity College with unequalled success and reputation .
Soon after his election to a fellow ?
ship , he went to Germany , where he devoted himself during many years to theological and general studies , and first became known to the public as the translator and learned commentator of Michaelis 's Introduction to the New Testament .
It was during his residence abroad that he published in the Gcrman language various tracts in defence of the policy of his own country in the continental wars , and more particularly a very elaborate " History of the Politics of Great Britain and France , from the time of the Conference at Pilnitz to the Declaration of War , " a work which produced a marked impression on the state of public opinion in Germany , and for which he received a very considerable pension on the recommendation of Mr. Pitt .
In 1807 , he was elected Lady Margaret 's Professor of Divinity in the University of Cambridge , an appointment of great value and importance , which he retained for the remainder of his life .
On the resumption of his residence in the University , he devoted himself with great diligence to the preparation of his lectures on various important branches of Divinity , interposing a great number of occasional publications on the Catholic Question , the Bible Society , and various other subjects of political and theological controversy .
In 1816 he was appointed Bishop of Llandaff ; and three years afterwards he was translated to the see of Peterborough .
In the course of a few years from this time , his health , which had been already undermined by his sedentary habits and severe studies , be ?
gan rapidly to decline , and he was compelled to abstain from the active duties of his professorship and from the exciting labours of controversy ; and though his infirinities continued to increase both in number and severity , yet his life was prolonged to a mature old age by the vigilant and anxious care and nursing of one of the most exemplary and affectionate of wives .
Dr. Marsh was a man of great learning and very uncommon vigour of mind , and as a writer , remarkable for the great preeision of his language and his singular clearness in the statement of his argument .
His lectures on Divinity are a most valuable contribution to the theological student , and his " Comparative View of the Churches of England and Romc " presents one of the most masterly views of the great principles which distinguish those churches , which has ever appeared from the pen of a Protestant writer .
His controversial writings , though generally full of acuteness and ability , must be ex ?
pected to share the fate of all productions which are not kept from perishing by the permanent existence of the interests , of whatever nature , which gave rise to them : and we may justly lament that learning and powers of reasoning of so extraordinary a character , were not more exclusively and steadily devoted to the completion of more durable and systematic theological labours .
The father of the late Professor Rigaud had the care of the King 's Observatory at Kcw , an appointment which probably influenced the early tastes and predilections of his son .
He was ad ?
mitted a member of Exeter College , Oxford , in 1791 , at the early age of sixteen , and continued to reside there as fellow and tutor until 1810 , when he was appointed Savilian Professor of Geometry .
He afterwards succeeded to the care of the Radcliffe Observatory , and the noble suite of instruments by Bird , with which it is furnished , was augmented , on his recommendation , by a new transit and circle , so as to fit it for the most refined purposes of modern practical astronomy : and we venture to express a hope that it will shortly become equally efficient and useful with the similar esta ?
blishment which exists in the sister university .
Professor Rigaud published , in 1831 , the miscellaneous works and correspondence of Bradley , to which he afterwards added a very interesting supplement on the astronomical papers of Harriott .
In 1838 , he published some curious notices of the first publication of the Principia of Newton ; and hc had also projected a life of Halley , with a view of rescuing the memory of that great man from much of the obloquy to Avhich it has been exposed ; he had made exten ?
sive collections for a new edition of the mathematical collections of Pappus ; and he ?
was the author of many valuable communications to the Transactions of the Royal Astronomical Society , and to other scientific journals , on various subjects connected with physical and astronomical science .
There was probably no other person of 17fi his age who was equally learned on all subjects connected with the history and literature of astronomy .
Professor Rigaud was a man of most amiable character , and of singularly pleasing manners and person .
The warmth of his affections , his modesty , gentleness , and love of truth , as well as the great variety of his acquirements and aecomplishments , had secured him the love and the respect of a large circle of friends , not merely in his own university , but amongst men of science generally .
He died in London in March last , after a short but painful illness , which he bore with a fortitude and resignation which might have been expected from his gentle , patient , and truly Christian character .
Mr. Wilkins , Professor of Architecture to the Royal Academy , became a member of Caius College , Cambridge , in 1796 , and took the degree of B.A. in 1800 , his name standing sixth on the mathe ?
matical Tripos .
He was soon afterwards nominated one of Wort 's Travelling Bachelors , and also a fellow of his college , and passed four years in Greece and Italy , studying the architectural remains and monuments of those countries with great diligence , preparatory to the practice of his profession as an architect , which his father had followed with crcdit , and for which his great skill as a draftsman particularly qualified him .
The study of those matchless ercations of ancient art would appear to have exercised a powerful influence on his taste , and to have led him to prefer the purer forms of Grecian architecture to the more varied iniitations and adaptations of them which appeared in the works of the Romans or in those of the great masters of modern Italy and more particularly of Palladio ; ?and the influence of these predilections was sufficiently visible in his designs for the East India College at Haileybury , and for Downing College , Cambridge , and is more or less easily traceable in most of his subsequent works .
In 1807 , be published his " Antiquities of Magna Graecia , " a magnificent work , containing descriptions , views , measurements , and restorations of the chief remains of Syracuse , Agrigentum , TEgcsta , and Psestum .
At a subsequent period he published " Athcniensia , " or Remarks on the Buildings of Athens , in which he expressed opinions unfavourable to those commonly entertained re ?
specting the rank which the Elgin marbles , which had been only recently purchased by the nation , should be considered to hold when viewed as works of art : he was likewise the author of a trans ?
lation of the Civil Architecture of Vitruvius , including those books which relate to the public and private edifices of the Ancients , which was preceded by a learned introduction on the history of the Rise and Progress of Grecian Architecture , ?
a work which was chiefly designed to show that the precepts of Vitruvius referred to Grecian and not to Roman buildings .
The publication of these works and of some essays in the Archaaologia , which showed a profound knowledge of the principles both of Grecian and Gothic architecture , led to very extensive professional engagements , particularly in the University of Cambridge , where he rebuilt Corpus Christi and King 's colleges , and made extensive additions to Trinity College : he was likewise the author of the magnificcnt portico of London University College , the National Gallery , and of other important edifices in London .
Fle was latterly compelled by the declining state of his health and by repeated attacks of the gout , to retire from his professional engagcments , though hedicl not abandon those studies which had formed his delight and occupation from his earliest years .
In 1837 , he published his " Prolusiones Architectonicae , or Essays on subjects connected with Grecian and Roman Architecture , " which were designed , in some degree , as a substitute for those lectures , which , under other circumstances , he would have been called upon to deliver , as Professor of Architecture , to the students of the Royal Academy .
During the last year of his life , though constantly confined to his bed , and extremely weakened and emaciated by dis ?
ease , he still continued his favourite pursuits until within a few days of his death , which took place on the last day of August last .
The Rev. ArchibaldAlison , senior Minister ofSLPaul'sChapel , Edinburgh , was born in 1757 , became a member of the University of Glasgow in 1772 , and of Baliol College , Oxford , in 1775 , and took the degree of B.C.L. in 1784 : he soon afterwards took holy orders in the English Church , and was presented to several ecclesiastical preferments by Sir Wiliiam Pulteney , Lord Chancellor Loughborough , and Bishop Douglas of Salisbury .
In 1784 he married the daughter of the celebrated Dr. John Gregory of Edinburgh , with whom he lived in uninterrupted happiness for forty years of his life .
His celebrated Essay " on the Nature and Principles of Taste " was first published in 1790 , and speedily became incorporated into the standard literature of Great Britain .
Towards the close of the last century , he became a permanent resident in his native city as minister of the Episcopal chapel , Cowgate , and afterwards of St. Paul 's , where he was connected by congenial tastes and pursuits with Dugald Stewart , Playfair , Henry Mackenzie , Dr. Gregory , and the many other distinguished men who , during so many years , made that beautiful and picturesque city the metropolis of British lite ?
rature .
In 1814 , he published two volumes of sermons ; and at a later period , a very interesting memoir of his accoinplished friend the Hon. Fraser Tytlcr Lord Woodhouslee .
Mr. Alison was a man of very pleasing and refined manners , of great cheerfulness and equanimity of temper , of a clear and temperate judgment , and possessing a very extensive knowledge of maiikind .
He was habitually pious and humble-minded , exhibiting , in the whole tenor of his life , the blessed influence of that Gospel of which he was the ordained minister .
All his writings are characterized by that pure and cor ?
rect taste , the principles of which he had illustrated with so much elegance and beauty .
Edmund Law Lusiiington was born in 1766 , at the lodge of St. Peter 's College , Cambridge , of which his grandfather , Bishop Law , was master .
He became a student , and afterwards a fellow of Queen 's College in that University , and attained the fourth place on the mathematical tripos in 1787 .
After practising for some years at the bar , he was appointed Chief Justice of Ceylon , a station which he filled for several years with great advantage to that colony .
On his return from the East , he was made Auditor of the Exchcquer , and also received from his uncle Lord Ellenborough the appointment of Master of the Crown Office .
He was an intimate friend of Wollaston and Tenant ; and though withdrawn by his pursuits from the active cultivation of science , he continued throughout his life to feel a deep interest in its progress .
His acquaintance with classical and general literature was unusually extensive and varied , and he had the happiness of witnessing in his sons the successful cultivation of those studies which other and more absorbing duties had compelled him to abandon .
Mr. Lushington was a man of a chcerful temper , of very courteous and pleasing manners , temperate and tolerant in all his opinions , and exemplary in the discharge both of his public and private duties : few persons have ever been more sincerely beloved either by their friends or by the members of their families .
Mr. George Saundkus was formerly architect to the British Mu ?
seum , where he built the Townley Gallery : he was also a diligent and learned antiquary , and the author of a very interesting and va ?
luable paper in the twenty-sixth volume of the Areha &gt; ologia , containing the results of an inquiry concerning the condition and extent of the city of Westminster at various periods of our history .
The only foreign members whom the Royal Society has lost during the last year are the Baron de Prony , one of the most distinguished engineers and mathematicians of the age ; and the venerable Pierre Prevost , formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Geneva .
Gaspard ClairFrancois Mart Rich de Prony was born in the department of the llhone in 1755 , and became a pupil , at an early age , of the Eeole des Ponts et Chaussees , where he pursued his mathematical and other studies with great application , and with more than common success .
He was subsequently employed , as an adjunct of M. Perronet , the chief of that school , in many important works , and particularly in the restoration of the Port of Dunkirk ; and in 1786 , he drew up the engineering plan for the erection of the Pont Louis XVI .
, and was employed in superintending its exe ?
cution .
M. de Prony had already appeared before the public , first as the translator of General Roy 's " Account of the Methods employed for the Measurement of the Base on Hounslow Heath , " which was the basis of the most considerable geodesical operation which had at that time been undertaken ; and subsequently , as the author of an essay of considerable merit , " On the Construction of Indeter ?
minate Equations of the Second Degree .
" In 1790 and 1797 , appeared his great work , in two large volumes , entitled Nouvelle Are ?
chitecture Hydraulique , which is a very complete and systematic treatise on Mechanics , Hydrostatics and Hydraulics , and more particularly on the principles of the steam-engine and hydraulical en ?
gineering .
In 1792 he was appointed to superintend the execution of the Cadastre , or great territorial and numerical survey of France , ?
a gigantic undertaking , the subsequent execution of which , during the revolutionary government , combined with the establishment of the bases of the decimal metrical system , gave employment and developement to so many and such important scientific labours and discoveries : among many other laborious duties , the formation of the extensive tables devolved upon M. de Prony , who , in the course of two years , organized and instructed a numerous body of calculators , and completed the immense Tables du Cadastre , which are still preserved in MSS .
at the library of the Observatory in seventeen enormous folio volumes .
M. de Prony became Directeur-General des Ponts et Chaussees in 1794 , and was nominated the first Professor of Mechanics to the Ecole Polytechnique ; ?an appointment , which led to the publication of many very important memoirs on mechanical and hydraulical subjects , and on various problems of engineering , which appeared in the Journal of that celebrated school .
He declined the invitation of Napoleon to become a member of the Institute of Egypt , ?
a refusal which was never entirely forgotten or pardoned .
In the beginning of the present century he was engaged in the execution .
of very exten ?
sive works connected with the embankments toAvards the embouchure of the Po , and in the ports of Genoa , Ancona , Pola , Venice , and the Gulf of Spezzia ; and in 1810 , he was appointed , in con junction with the celebrated Count Fossombroni of Florence , the head of the Cornmissione de VAgro Romano , for the more effectual drainage and im ?
provement of the Pontine Marshes .
The result of his labours in this very important task , which he prosecuted with extraordinary zeal and success , was embodied in his Description Hydrographique et Historique des Marais Pontins , which appeared in 1822 , which contains a very detailed description of the past , present and prospective condition of these pestilcntial regions , and a very elaborate scientific discussion of the general principles which should guide us , in this and all similar cases , in effecting their permanent restoration to healthiness and fertility .
After the return of the Bourbons , M. de Prony continued to be employed in various important works , and more particularly in the formation of some extensive embankments towards the mouth of the Rhone .
In 1817 ?
he was made a member of the Bureau des Longi ?
tudes , and in the following year he was elected one of the fifty fo ?
reign members of the Royal Society : in 1828 , he was created a Baron by Charles X. , and was made a peer of France in 1835 .
He died in great tranquillity at Aonieres near Paris , in July last , in the 84th year of his age .
The Baron de Prony was a man of singularly pleasing manners , of very lively conversation , and of great evenness of temper .
He was one of the most voluminous writers of his age , generally upon mathematical and other subjects connected with his professional pur ?
suits ; and though we should not be justified in placing him on the same level with some of the great men with whom he was associated for so many years of his life , yet he is one of those of whom his country may justly be proud , whether we consider the extent and character of his scientific attainments , or the great variety of important practical and useful labours in which his life was spent .
Pierre Prevost was born in 1751 , and was originally destined to follow the profession of his father , who was one of the pastors of Geneva : at the age of twenty , however , he abandoned the study of theology for that of law , the steady pursuit of which , in time , gave way to his ardent passion for literature and philosophy : at the age of twenty-two , he became private tutor in a Duteh family , and afterwards acccpted a similar situation in the family of M. Delcssert , first at Lyons , and afterwards at Paris .
It was in this latter city that he commenced the publication of his translation of Euripides , beginning with the tragedy of Orestes ; ?a work which made him advantageously known to some of the leading men in that great metropolis of literature , and led to his appointment , in 1780 , to the professorship of philosophy in the college of Nobles , and also to a place in the Academy of Berlin , on the invitation of Frederick the Great .
Being thus established in a position where the cultiva ?
tion of literature and philosophy became as much a professional duty as the natural accomplishment of his own wishes and tastes , he commenced a life of more than ordinary literary activity and productiveness .
In the course of the four years which he passed at Berlin , he published Observations sir les methodes employees pour enseigner la morale ; sir la theory des gains fortuits ; sir le mouve ?
meant progressif du centre dc gravite de tout le systeme solairc ; sir Vorigine des vitesses projcctiles ; sir Veconomie des anciens gouvernements ; sir Vetat des jinaves dAngleterrc ; and he also completed the three first volumes of his translation of Euripides .
There were , in fact , few departments of literature or philosophy which were not comprehended in the extensive range of his studies and publications .
In the year 1784 , he returned to Geneva to attend the death-bed of his father , when he was induced to accept the chair of belles lettres in the University , ?
an appointment , which he found on trial little suited to his taste .
and which he shortly afterwards resigned .
For some years after this period , he was compelled more by circum ?
stances than by inclination to partake largely in those political dis ?
cussions , which , for some years , agitated his native city , and which afterwards , resumed upon a wider theatre , shook to its centre the whole framework of European society ; but lie gradually withdrew himself from political life on his appointment to the chair of na ?
tural philosophy in 1792 , and devoted himself from thenceforth , with renewed activity and ardour , to pursuits which were most congenial to his tastes .
In 1790 M. Prevost published his Memoir sir Vequilibre dufeu , and in the following year his liechcrches sir la chaleur : these important memoirs were followed by many others on the same subject in various seientific journals ; and the general results of all his researches and discoveries were exhibited , in a systematic form , in his well-known work Sir le calorique rayonnant , which was pub ?
lished in 1809 , and in which he fully developed his Theory of Exchanges , and was enabled to give a consistent explanation of the principal facts which were at that time known respecting the nature and propagation of heat .
It would be impossible , in the very short compass within which this notice is necessarily confined , to enumerate even a small part of the publications of an author whose pursuits were so various and whose labours were so unremitting .
He contributed papers to our Transactions in 1797 and 1803 ; the first containing an explanation of some optical experiments of Lord Brougham , and the second , some remarks on heat and on the action of bodies which intercept it , with reference to a paper by Dr. Herschel ; and in 1806 , he became one of the foreign members of our body .
In 1799 , he obtained the first accessit for an essay Sir Vinfluence des signs relativement d la formation des idees , which was written for a prize , adjudged to the celebrated Degerando , proposed by the Institute of France ; and he was shortly afterwards elected a corresponding member of that body .
His Essais de philosophie , et Hudes de I'esprit humcdn , appeared in 1804 , to which were appended some very remarkable Essays of his friend and ancient preceptor Le Sage , of whom he published a most interesting life in the following year .
He likewise published , in very rapid succession , translations of the Rhetoric of Blair , the Essays and posthumous works of Adam Smith , the Elements of Philosophy of Dugald Stewart , the essay on Population by Malthus , Salt 's Travels in Abyssinia , the Conversations on Political Economy , of his wife 's sister-in-law , Mrs. Marcet , and many other works of less importance and interest .
In 1823 , at the age of 72 , though still vigorous and active both in body and mind , he resigned the professorship of natural philo ?
sophy , in wise anticipation of the approach of that period of life when men naturally feel reluctant to acknowledge the decline of their faculties , or incompetent to perceive it .
From this time , though still consulted by his colleagues and fellow-citizcns on every important subject connected with the Academy or the state , he retired into the bosom of his family , which contained within itself , in a very uncommon degree , every element of tranquillity , contentment and happiness .
His own temper was singularly equable and tranquil ; and his tastes and pursuits , which rarely left his time unoccupied , saved him from that tcedium vitre which sometimes renders old age qucrulous and discontented .
Thus happily disposed and happily circumstanced , it is not wonderful that his life should have been prolonged beyond the ordinary limits of humanity .
He died on the 8th of April , in the 88th year of his age , surrounded by his family , and deeply regretted by all who knew him .
The philosophical character of M. Prevost had been greatly influenced by that of his master Le Sage , a man of great originality and profundity of thought , but whose speculations , particularly those which attempted the explanation of the cause of gravity , trespassed somewhat beyond the proper limits of philosophy .
We consequently find him disposed to explain the laws of the propagation of heat and light on the most simple mechanical principles , and to trace their origin and progress much farther than the experiments or facts will properly warrant ; thus giving to his conclusions , in many cases , a much more hypothetical character than would otherwise have attached to them .
M. Prcvost had little acquaintance with the more refined resources of modern analysis ; and his researches on many important branches of experimental and philosophical inquiry were consequently limited to reasonings which could be carried on by the most simple algebraical or geometrical processes .
But notwithstanding the restrictions which were thus imposed on his progress , the range of his philosophical researches was unusually extensive and various , and his discoveries on heat must always be considered as constituting a most important epoch in a branch of science which has recently received so extraordinary a developement in the hands of Fourier , Forbes , Melloni , and other philosophers .
The Treasurer read the following statement relative to the fmances of the Society : The Disbursements of the Society may be classed under two heads : 1 .
Those which are ordinary ; and 2 .
Those which are extraordinary , and not likely to recur .
1 .
The ordinary disbursements may be stated in the following manner : ?
Salaries . ?
525 Lighting .
40 Coals .
30 Taxes and Parish Rates .
50 Charwoman .
30 Postage .
20 Fire Insurance .
22 Miscellaneous .
200 ?
917 The annual expense of printing the Philosophical Transactions has been , on an average of the last five years , ?
850 , without including the charge for stitching and for advertisements ; viz. For Printing . ?
466* For Paper .
142 For Engraving .
242 ?
850 The expenses attending their publication vary , of course , very much according to the number of pages , the quantity of Engravings , and the nature of the Papers included in each volume .
2 .
Besides the ordinary disbursements , the Society has recently borne the expenses of the Catalogue , for which Mr. Panizzi has alPrinting .
Paper .
Engraving .
ready received ?
475 ( including ?
28 paid to Mr. Roberton ) , which with ?
328 awarded by Mr. Drinkwater Bethune , to whom this matter was referred , is ?
803 , and the expense of printing the same has been ?
657 : 10 .
The legal expenses in the present year have been greater than usual , in consequence of the costs in the above reference , amounting to ?
48 : 10 : 6 , and those in the matter of the Royal Society v. Loscombe , amounting to ?
114:12 : 10 , which have been incurred in prosecuting , under the advice of Counsel , the claim of the Society to ?
1200 3 per cent. consols bequeathed to the Royal Society by the late Sir Clifton Wintringham , payable on the death of his widow .
The expenses of defending the suit in respect of the Mablethorpe tithes have been considerable ; and in consequence of the decision of Lord Abinger in the Court of Exchequer in July last , the income which the Society derives from that estate will be materially di ?
minished , unless that decision can be reversed by appeai to the House of Lords .
The Society derives Income from the rent of an estate at Mable ?
thorpe in Lincolnshire ; from a fee-farm rent issuing out of the Barony of Lewes , in Sussex ; from the rent of an estate at Acton ; and one fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lambeth Hill , from the Royal College of Physicians , in pursuance of Lady Sadleir 's Will .
These rents are as follows : Estate at Mablethorpe . ?
107 00 Lands at Acton .
60 00 Fee-farm rent of lands in Sussex. .
19 40 Estate at Lambeth Hill .
30 0 ?
189 40 The estate at Mablethorpe consists of 55 a. 2 r. 2 p. of pasture land , and is let to Mr. Cross , at ?
107 per annum , who is tenant at will .
The lands at Acton appear to consist now of 33 a. 3 r. 36 p. , and are let to Mr. Essex , at ?
60 per annum , who is tenant at will .
The property at Acton was purchased by the Society , with other lands since sold , in August 1732 .
The lands at Mablethorpe were bequeathed to the Society by Francis Aston , Esq. in 1713 .
The fee-farm rent in Sussex issuing out of the Barony of Lewes was purchased by the Society with ?
400 bequeathed to the Society by the Bishop of Chester in June 1674 , and is now payable by the Earl of Abergavenny .
The Society also derives income from Dividends in Stock . ?
529 11 2* Quarterly and Weekly Contributions about 667 00 Sale of Philosophical Transactions about. .
350 00 also whatever may be received for the Admission Fees , or Compo ?
sition of new members , which is fluctuating .
The Admission3 have been on an average of the last five years thirty-four , which would give ?
340 per annum for Admission Fees of ?
10 each ; and the average sums received from members who have compounded for annual contributions during the same period is ?
500 , making a total of ?
840 per annum for Admission Fees and Compositions* .
Besides these sources of income , there are other sums invested in the funds , namely , The Fairchild fund. . ? ?
100 00 New South Sea Stock .
The Rumford fund. .
2292 11 71 Consols The Donation fund. .
4150 0 0/ of which the dividends are not applicable to the general expenses of the Society , but must be disposed of according to the intention of the respective donors .
The clear annual income , therefore , which may for some time be expected , without taking into consideration the sums arising from the Fairchild Fund , the Rumford Fund , and the Donation Fund , is about ?
2386 , or without the Admission Fees and Compositions ?
1546 , and the probable amount of ordinary expenses ?
1767 .
J. W. LUBBOCK , Treasurer .
The statutes relating to elections were then read by the Secretary , Joseph Smith , Esq. and E. H. Locker , Esq. were appointed Scru ?
tators to assist the Secretaries in examining the balloting lists .
The ballot was then taken , and Dr. Roget , on the part of the Scrutators , reported the following gentlemen as being duly elected Officers and Council for the ensuing year : ?
President . ?
The Marquis of Northampton .
Treasurer . ?
John Wiliiam Lubbock , Esq. , M.A. Secretaries . ?
Peter Mark Roget , M.D. ; Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. , M.A. Foreign Secretary . ?
John Frederic Daniell , Esq. Other Members of the Council ?
Francis Bailey , Esq. ; Sir John Bar ?
row , Bart. ; Thomas Bell , Esq. ; John Davy , M.D. ; Bryan Donkin , Esq. ; Edward Forster , Esq. ; Thomas Galloway , Esq. , M.A. , Thomas Graham , Esq. ; Sir John F. W. Herschel , Bart. , M.A. ; Francis Kiernan , Esq. ; John Lindley , Esq. , Phil. D. ; Pichard Owen , Esq. ; Richard Phillips , Esq. ; Major Edward Sabine , R.A. ; John Taylor , Esq. ; Robert Bentley f odd , M.D. The thanks of the meeting were given to the Scrutators for their trouble in examining the list .
The President having quitted the Chair , it was taken by the Rev. W. Whewell , and it was unanimously resolved that the thanks of the meeting be given to the Marquis of Northampton for the zeal he has displayed in promoting the interest of the Royal Society .
The following is the statement with respect to the Receipts and Pay ?
ments of the Society during the preceding year , which was laid on the table by the Treasurer : ?
Statement of the Receipts and Payments of the Royal Society between Nov. 29 , 1838 , and Nov. 28 , 1839 .
Receipts : ? ? .
5 .
d. Balance in the hands of the Treasurer at the last Audit. .
1463 14 5 28 Weekly Contributions , at one shilling .
72 16 0 159 Quarterly Contributions , at ?
1 : ? ?
141 Annual Contributions at ?
4 .
564 00 One Reinstated ( Two Annual Payments). .
800 Six elected before the last Anniversary ... .
600 Two elected before March 25th , 1839 ... .
800 Eight elected after March 25th , 1839 _80 0 ?
-594 00 36 Admission Fees .
360 001 Composition for Annual Payment at ?
40 .
40 00 10 Compositions for Annual Payments at ?
60 .
600 00 Rents : ?
One year 's rent of estate at Mablethorpe : due ? .
5 .
d. at Michaelmas , ( less the expenses of defending the Tithe suit , ?
55 .
13 .
3 ) .
51 69 One year 's rent of lands at Acton : due at Michaelmas , 1839 .
60 00 One year 's fee-farm rent of lands in Sussex ; land-taxdeducted : due at Michaelmas , 1839 19 40 One fifth of the clear rent of an estate at Lam ?
beth Hill , from the Royal College of Physicians , in pursuance ot'Lady Sadleir 's will : due at Midsummer , 1839 .
300 133 10 9 Dividends on Stock : ?
One year 's dividendon ?
14,000 Reduced 3 per cent. Annuities .
420 00 Dividend on ?
3452 .
1 .
1 Consols , the produce of the sale of the premises in Colemanstreet .
103 11 2 One year 's dividend on ?
200 Consols ... .
600 Donation Fund .
One year 's dividendon ?
4150 .
0 .
0 Consols 124 10 0 Rumford Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
2161.0 .
10 Consols 64 16 6 One half year 's dividend on ?
131 .
10 .
9 ... .
1 19 6 Fairchild Fund .
One year 's dividend on ?
100 New South Sea Annuities .
300 723 17 2 Miscellaneous Receipts : ?
Sale of Philosophical Transactions , Abstracts of Papers , and Catalogue of the Royal Society 's Library ... .
^ .
286 13 0 Sale of Catalogue to Subscribers .
75 qq Total Receipts. . ?
4349 11 4 Payments : ? ? .
s. d. F*airchild Lecture . ?
The Rev. J. J. Ellis , for delivering the Fairchild Lecture for 1839 .
300 Bakerian Lecture . ?
Wiliiam Snow Harris , Esq. , for the Bakerian Lecture for 1839 .
400 Rumford Fund . ?
James D. Forbes , Esq. , Two years ' dividend on the Rum ?
ford Augmentation Fund , January 9 , 1839 .
73 13 0 Cost of ?
131 .
10 .
9 Annuities .
121 13 6 Mr. Wyon , for Gold and Silver Rumford Medal _ 64 00 British Museum Fund .
For Books .
38 26 Salaries : ? ? .
s. d. Dr. Roget , one year , as Secretary .
105 00 S. H. Christie , Esq. , one year , as Secretary..105 00 Ditto for Index to Phil. Trans. 550 Capt. Smyth , one year , as Foreign Secretary .
20 00 Mr. Roberton , oneyear , as Assistant-Secretary 200 00 Mr. W. E. Shuckard , one year , as Librarian.5000 Mr. Holtzer , one year , as Porter .
30 00 Ditto , for extra Porterage .
10 00 525 50 Fire Insurance , on the Society 's Property 22 11 6 Mrs. Coppard : Gratuity .
10 00 Bills : ?
Taylor : Printing the Phil. Trans. , 1838 , part 2. .
212 16 Ditto , 1839 , part 1 ; Proceedings , Nos. 34 ? ?
39 ; Circulars , Lists of Fellows , Ballotlists , Statement of Payments , and Mi ?
nutes of Council ; &amp;c. &amp;c. 254 00 Ditto , for the completion of the Catalogue 257 10 0 Bowles and Gardiner : For Paper for the Phil. Trans. , 1838 , part 2 , and 1839 , part 1 .
170 00 Basire : For Engraving and Copper-plate Printing for Phil. Trans. , 1838 , part 2 .
109 Ditto , 1839 , part 1 , &amp;c. 134 Gyde : Boarding and Sewing 800 Parts of Phil. Trans. 1838 , part 2 , and 323 Catalogues 42 Ditto , 1839 , partl , and 75 Catalogues. .
31 1211 10 Chapel : For Stationery .
13 16 Saunderson : For Shipping Expenses .
75 Carried forward. .
21 18 1232 11 10 ? .
s. d. ? .
s. d. Brought forward. .
21 18 1232 11 10 Brecknell and Turner : Wax Lights , Candles , and Lamp Oil ... .
37 40 Cubitt : For Repairing Windows , Carpets , &amp;c. 12 18 4 Exchequer Fee for paying dividend .
0 13 0 Arnold : For Coals .
17 2 11 Murray : For taking Meteorological Observations , .
700 Tuckett : Bookbinding .
21 03 Silvester : For New Diploma Plate .
1111 0 Snell : For Repairs in the Libraryin 1835 and 1836 33 18 3 Wood : For Coals ( Porter 's yearly allowance ) ... .
640 Few , Hamilton and Few , Solicitors : Law Expenses .
178 52 Taxes and Parish Rates : Land and Assessed Taxes .
469 Poor Rate .
22 13 4 Church Rate .
942 Rcctor 's Rate .
226 Petty Charges : Sewer 's Rate .
0 15 0 Hartnup : for Barometrical Tables_ 220 Silvester : for 12 Copies of Diploma. .
2 12 0 Arnold and Dent : Attending Clocks. .
18 6 Gwillim : Mats , Brushes , Fire wood , &amp;c. 3 12 3 Parker : for Packing Cases .
151 Cobbett : for Glazing .
106 Charwoman 's Wages .
27 60 Ditto , Extra work .
200 Stamps .
0 14 6 Postage and Carriage .
15 14 1 Expenses on Foreign Packets , &amp;c. 5 19 4 Window-cleaning , &amp;c. 2 11 0 Miscellaneous expenses .
15 06 346 18 7 38 69 82 09 Total Payments_ ?
2541 19 Total Receipts_ 4349 11 4 Balance in the hands of the Treasurer . ?
1808 97 November 28th , 1839 .
JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Treasurer .
The Balances in hand , now belonging to the several trusts , are as under : viz : ? ? .
s. d. British Museum Fund .
165 11 10 Donation Fund .
358 64 Rumford Fund .
66 16 0 The following table shows the progress and present state of the Society , with respect to the number of Fellows : ?

