366 On Endophytic Adaptation shown by Erysiphe Graminis Dq under Cultural Conditions .
By Ernest S. Salmon , E.L.S. ( Communicated by Professor H. Marshall Ward , F.E.S. Received February 24 , Read April 6 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) In recent papers by the author the fact has been pointed out that certain species of the Erysiphacece are able , under cultural conditions , to infect their host-plants vigorously when their conidia or ascospores are sown on the cells of the internal tissues exposed by means of a wound , although the fungi in question are confined normally to the external surface of the epidermal cells .
The present paper gives the results of investigations carried out in the laboratory of Professor Marshall Ward at Cambridge , with the object of ascertaining the details of growth of the fungus under these abnormal conditions , and of discovering to what extent the hyphse penetrated into the intercellular spaces of the internal tissues , and whether haustoria ( normal or otherwise ) were produced by these hyphse .
A rapid survey is first made of our present knowledge of the mycelial characteristics of the Erysiphacece in relation to their parasitic habit .
The species of the Erysiphacece were regarded since De Bary 's time as strict ectoparasites , until in 1899 Palla discovered the semi-endophytic habit of the genus Phyllactinia .
With this exception the species of the Erysiphacece , so far as they have been investigated , have been found to be strictly ectoparasitic in habit , the hyphse of the mycelium being confined to the external surface of the epidermal cells ( never gaining access to the intercellular spaces of the internal tissues ) , and merely sending haustoria either into the epidermal cells alone , or , in the case of one species , into the sub-epidermal cells as well .
The experiments carried out , and the methods employed in the present investigations are then described .
The fungus used was the conidial stage of Erysiphe Graminis DC .
, a strict ectoparasite under normal circumstances .
Young leaves of oats and barley were cut off from seedling plants , and a minute piece of tissue was cut out with a sharp razor from the upper surface of the leaf .
In this operation the upper epidermis was removed , and often a considerable amount of the mesophyll also , so that in inoculation Endophytic Adaptation shown hy Erysiphe Graminis DC .
367 the conidia were sown on the sub-epidermal or deeper layers of the exposed mesophyll , or even on the internal surface of the lower epidermis .
After inoculation , the leaves were placed on damp blotting-paper in a Petri dish .
By the sixth to eighth day vigorous infection had nearly always resulted , the surface of the wound bearing patches of clustered conidiophores .
The leaves were then fixed in Flemming 's fluid or in chromacetic , and subsequently embedded in paraffin , microtomed , and stained with Diamant fuchsin and Lichtgriin .
It was found on examining such wounded leaves that the fungus had invaded the internal tissues to a remarkable extent .
Where the mesophy 11-cells remaining uninjured were several layers deep , the hyphse had penetrated inwards , winding through the intercellular spaces as far as the internal surface of the lower epidermis .
Haustoria were sent into the cells of the superficial layer of the mesophyll by the hyphae creeping on the surface of the wound , and into all the deeper layers of the mesophyll by the hyphae running in the intercellular spaces .
The cells of the lower epidermis were also attacked , the internal wall having been penetrated .
The sheath-cells of the vascular bundles were much invaded by very vigorous haustoria .
The haustoria formed in the cells of the internal tissues resemble in every way those which occur normally in the epidermal cells .
The hyphae enclosed in intercellular spaces , either just below the surface of the wound or deep down in the internal tissues , struggle to produce conidiophores .
The respiratory cavities over the stomata of the lower epidermis were in a great number of cases full of vigorous hyphae producing young conidiophores .
When the intercellular space , where the young conidiophore was produced , was shut off from the open air by only a thin membrane consisting of the walls of collapsed mesophyll-cells , the young conidiophore growing upwards , sometimes proved able to break through it and continue its growth .
The direction of growth of the young conidiophores produced in the respiratory cavities and other intercellular spaces was usually vertical , and towards the surface of the wound .
Examples were observed , however , of young conidiophores growing horizontally in intercellular spaces between the oaesophyll-cells , or , in a few cases , vertically , with the apex of the conidiophore directed away from the surface of the wound .
In several cases hyphae had penetrated laterally , in a direction parallel to the surface of the leaf , from the edge of the wound , and occurred in the intercellular spaces in the middle of the mesophyll , at places where all the tissues , including the epidermis above and below , were uninjured .
In such places both haustcria and young conidiophores were produced .
Figures are given illustrating the details of the growth of the hyphse in 368 .
Mr. W. S. Perrin .
On the [ May 1 the interior of the leaf , and the production of haustoria and intercellular eonidiophores .
The author , reviewing the results of the investigations , points out that they afford proof that E. Graminis is not , as perhaps might have been expected , so highly specialised as an ectoparasite as to be necessarily restricted for its food-supply to cells of the epidermis ; but shows itself capable of immediate adaptation to conditions closely resembling those obtaining in endophytism .
This fact suggests the possibility that under some circumstances the mycelial hyphse of species of the .
Erysvphacece which are normally ectoparasites may penetrate into the internal tissues of their host-plants exposed through wounds caused in nature by the attacks of animals or by physical agency It is pointed out , however , that the successful entry of the hyphse might be prevented , either by the drying up of the superficial layers of cells , or by the healing processes shown by many actively growing leaves .
A Preliminary Communication on the Life History of Trypanosoma balbianii .
By W. S. Perrin , B.A. , Shuttleworth Research Student of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by A. Sedgwick , F.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read June 8 , 1905 .
) Trypanosoma balbianii , Certes , is a primitive member of the family of the Trypanosomidae , and occurs in great numbers as a parasite in the gut of the oyster , where it may be present , either swimming freely in the fluid contents or enclosed within the crystalline style , when this structure is present .
The species has been worked at by Certes* and Lustrae , f the latter of whom describes the presence of an undulating membrane and the external features of the process of division .
The nucleus is , however , described by neither author .
The material used in prosecuting this research was obtained from oysters fished from the Adriatic Sea , off the coast of Rovigno , but the parasite also occurs in the oysters of Schleswig-Holstein and the north coast of France .
The distribution is thus a wide one .
The research has been carried out under * Certea , ' Bulletin Soc. Zool. France/ vol. 7 , 1882 , p. 347 ; ebenda , vol. 16 , 1891 , p- 95-T Lustrae , ' Acts d. 1 .
Soc. Linn. Bordeaux/ vol. 50 , 1896 , p. 265 .

