]\gt ; [ 161 ] VI .
The Lunar Diurnal Magnetic Variation , and its Change with Lunar Distance .
By S. CHAPMAN , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Fellow nd Lecturer of Trinity College , Cmbridge , lately Chief at the Gr.eenwich .
Cornmunicated by the Astronomer Royal , F.R. Received January 27 , \mdash ; Read February 18 , 1915 .
CONTENTS .
Page .
Introduction . . . . .
161 The variation of amplitude with lunar distance .
163 The variation of phase with lunar distance 166 Discussion . . . . .
Tables . . . . .
171 Additionnl note . . . . .
175 Introduction .
IN his illuminating article on Magnetism in the Encyclopaedia Britannica ' ( 9th ed. , , BALFOUR STEWART discussed the origin and mechanism of the magnetic variations , concluding that the only tenable hypothesis was that which attributed them to currents flowing in the upper atmosphere , under the impulse of electromotive forces caused by the motion of the conducting atmosphere across the permanent terrestrial magnetic field .
At several stages in the discussion use was made of the phenomena of the lunar diurnal magnetic variation , as disclosed by BROUN'S fine study of the subject ; to these phenomena BALFOUR STEWART evide1ltly attributed considerable theoretical importance , and an origin as regards situation to that of the solar diurnal variations .
In 1889 proved , by the Gaussian potential method , that the solar diurnal magnetic variations arise mainly from causes acting above the earth 's surface , a demonstration which added much weight to BALFOUR STEWART'S tentative theory .
SCHUSTER also suggested a connection betwee.n the magnetic and barometric variations , an idea which he elaborated and discussed with great cogency eighteen years later The barometric changes are mainly of thermal origin , and possible differences between the character of the atmospheric motions at the earth 's surface and in the upper regions may have an important bearing on the theory .
In *BROUN , ' Trevandrum Magnetical Observations , ' vol. 1 , p. 113 , 1874 .
SCHUSTER , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 180 , p. 467 , 1889 .
SCHUSTER , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 208 , p. 163 , 1907 .
VOL. CCXV .
[ Published Apri17 , 1915 .
his later paper , SCHUSTER suggested that the lunar magnetic variations might throw light on these questions : " " It is much to be desired that some systematic attempt should be made to investigate the lunar influence on the magnetic changes , for we possess atpresent only the vaguest information as to how the different components are affected .
It is quite possible that the effects may depend on a tidal disturbance of the upper regions of the atmosphere .
If so , we may expect to get a valuable test of our theory by their investigation\ldquo ; ( loc. cit. , p. 181 ) .
BALFOUR STEWART also has said that " " it is impossible to refrain from associating he lunar diurnal magnetic variations either directly or indirectly with something having the type of tidal action , but in what way this influence operates we cannot tell\ldquo ; ( loc. cit. , S146 ) .
These references to tidal action seem to have been suggested largely by a discovery of BROUN'S , that the amplitude of the lunar magnetic variation is greater at perigee than at apogee in the inverse cube ratio of the moon 's distance at these epochs , " " as in the theory of the tides as he briefly concluded .
The semi-diurnal character of the lunar magnetic variation agrees with this tidal hypothesis .
In 1912 VAN BEMMELE an important paper on the lunar magnetic variations , referred them ( by methods similar to those used by SCHUSTER in the two papers cited ) to the lunar atmospheric tide as computed from the Batavian barometric records ; he showed that the electrical conductivity of the atmospheric layers in which circulate the currents responsible for the production of the lunar magnetic variations is of the same order as that calculated by SCHUSTER from the solar diurnal variations .
Since the lunar barometric variation is clearly a tidal effect , the hypothesis of a tidal origin of the lunar magnetic variations is thus supported .
The most direct confirmation of this hypothesis , however , would naturally be obtained from evidence such as that adduced by BROUN , concerning the influence of lunar distance upon the amplitude of the lunar magnetic variations .
BROUN'S result coincided remarkably closely with the theoretical value , but further examination indicates that this was due to a happy accident ; the ratio of the moon 's mean distance in the half lunations centred at perigee and apogee respectively is and the inverse cube of this is ; the observed values of the ratio of the mean amplitudes of the lunar magnetic variation during these epochs varied between and , with a mean value of FIGEE , making a similar investigation from the Batavian magnetic records , dissented from BROUN'S conclusion that the amplitudes vary as the tidal theory would predict .
If a result contrary to that of BROUN could be definitely established , the above theory of the lunar magnetic variations , which is so attractive in many ways , would become almost untenable .
The matter being of some importance , and BROUN'S and VAN BEMMELEN , ' Meteorologische Zeitschrift , ' vol. 5 , p. 218 , 1912 .
'Batavian Magnetical and Moteorological Observations , ' vol. 26 , Appendix , 1903 .
AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
FIGEE'S data alone bein insufficient to resolve the doubt , I have made an attempt in the present paper to decide the question , with the aid of newly computed data .
The result is not so decisive as could be desired , owing to the considerable accidental errors affecting the determinations of the minute quantities concerned ; but the evidence , on the whole , is confirmatory of the tidal hypothesis .
It can certainly be stated that , if the amplitude of the lunar magnetic variation is inversely proportional to an integral power of the lunar distance , this power is the cube and not the square or the fourth power .
This conclusion , while important , cannot be called surprising .
The invest ) very clearly revealed , however , another phenomenon of a remarkable and quite unexpected nature , , that the phase of the lunar magnetic variation at perigee is considerably in advance of that at ( i.e. , by about 30 degrees ) .
On referring back to BROUN'S and FIGEE'S papers , it appeared that their data confirmed this result , though BROUN , not unnaturally , made no remark on what seemed to .
more , than an accidental feature of the observations .
FIGEE , on the other hand , noticed and commented on it , but on account of variations in its amount , as determined from different portions of his material , he expressed doubt as to its reality .
He appears to have gone no further with it , not even examining BROUN'S data for confirmation or otherwise .
The body of evidence in its support , which is here brought forward , establishes this remarkable phenomenon beyond question .
The Change with of the Amplitude of the gnetic Variation .
If the amplitude of the lunar magnetic variation varies continuously between a maximum value at perigee and a minimum at apogee , the ratio of the mean amplitudes during two periods centred at these epochs must obviously depend on the length of the periods .
The mean eccentricity of the lunar orbit being , the extreme ratio of the amphtudes ( at exact perigee and apogee ) on the tidal theory should be which is the cube of : for periods of four days centred at perigee and apogee the ratio should be , while if the periods each extend over half a lunation the ratio is BROUN divided his material into the perigee and apogee half lunations , thus utilizing all his material , but diminishing the magnitude of the quantity to be determined .
His data were ten years ' hourly observations of declination at Trevandrum , in India , and he treated the summer and winter half years separately .
The mean inequalities derived from the four groups of data ( summer and winter , perigee and apogee ) were compared according to their mean ranges , mean areas , and harmonic amplitude coefficients .
The perigee-apo gee ratios so obtained varied between and , with a mean value of from the whole material .
BROUN summed up his result thus : ' ' The ratio of the moon 's mean distance from the earth in the half orbit about apogee is to that in the half orbit about perigee nearly as to 1 ; as the cube of nearly , we see that the mean ranges of the curves , as well as the mean areas , for the two distances are in the approximate ratios of the inverse cubes of the moon 's distance from the earth , as in the theory of the tides\ldquo ; ( loc. cit. , S405 ) .
FIGEE did not determine the ratio of the mean amplitudes over half lunations , but only over periods of three days centred at apogee.and perigee ; hence his results should be compared with and not with .
This point seems to have been overlooked by him , for on comparing his figures with BROUN'S , he remarked that BROUN'S value of the perigee-apogee amplitude ratio " " is much smaller than that found for Batavia , , and therefore the conclusion drawn by BROUN is not allowed here ' that the mean ranges of the curves , as well as the mean areas , for the two distances , are in the approximate ratios of the inverse cubes of the moon 's distance from the earth , as in the theory of the tides\ldquo ; ' ( loc. cit. , S23 ) .
The figure , here referred to , is ratio of the areas of the variation curves at perigee and apogee for declination ( winter ) , the element affected by the moon at Batavia .
The ratios for the other elements and seasons were also determined , .however , though in some cases ( especially that of vertical force ) the whole lunar variation is so small that any effect of the kind sought for would be liable to be masked by accidental error .
But in the case of horizontal force the total amplitudes , while smaller than that of declination in winter , seem to be sufficiently large to entitle the perigee-apogee ratios derived from them to some weight .
The three values of this ratio which appear to be the most reliable , amongst FIGEE'S results , are consequently : Declination ( winter ) Horizontal force ( summer ) Horizontal force ( winter ) The mean of these results*is , which is very nearly equal to the theoretical ratio ; hence , we may conclude that , while it is subject to ccidental rror , the mean result from Batavia tends , like that from Trevandrum , to the support of bhe tidal hypothesis as to the origin of the lunar magnetic variations .
The newly computed results , next to be described , are derived from the hourly values of the magnetic elements at five observatories , Pavlovsk , Pola , Zi-Ka-Wei , Manila , and Batavia ( in each case for seven magnetically " " quiet\ldquo ; years ) , treated in the manner explained in a recent paper on the lunar magnetic variations at Pavlovsk and Pola .
The amplitude ratio has been determined both from short periods of three * The other results obtained by FIGEE are as follows : declination ( summer ) , vertical force ( summer ) , vertical force ( winter ) .
The mean of these values is , but on account of the smaller amplitude of these tions , not much weight can be given to this mean value .
CHAPMAN , 'Phil .
Trans , 214 , pp. 295-317 .
For the purpose of the perigee-apogee investigation the work described in that paper is useful up to the end of S4 .
The seven years dealt with are 1897-1903 , except in the case of Batavia , where on account of interruptions in the observations the years 1899-1901 wore replaced by the correspondingly quiet years of the previous sunspot cycle , 1888-1890 .
AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
or four days centred at apogee and perigee , and also from half lunations , as in BROUN'S investigation .
In order not to waste labour on computations which were not likely to afford an accurate result , owing to the relative magnitude of the amplitude change and the accidental errors , only those elements have been dealt with ( and during those seasons* ) for which the range of the semi-diurnal lunar magnetic variation approximated to at least .
The results as regards amplitude are given in Tables I. and II .
, the former applying to the shorter periods about apogee and perigee , and the latter to the half lunations .
Ths number of days contributing to each individual value of the semi-amplitude in Table I. was approximately 100 , and in Table II .
, approximately 400 .
The theoretical value of the amplitude ratio in the former case is , and in the latter , .
The means of the observed values are as follows:\mdash ; Theoretical value .
Short periods force ( five determinations ) Half lunations force ( eterminations ) The individual results in Tables I. and II .
, on which these means are based , show considerable discordances , and better data are much to be desired .
The accidental errors in the determination of the minute lunar magnetic variations , especially from a comparatively small number of days , are considerable ; in one or two cases , indeed , some of the computed semi-amplitudes are palpably erroneous , and have been discarded in taking the means from the tables .
The discordance ( including even the rather surprising discordance of the second horizontal force mean value , ) must , I think , be attributed to the fortuitous effect of magnetic disturbances , and this can be eliminated only by determining the lunar variation over the average of a considerably longer period of time .
It would be well if observatories would undertake such a reduction of their own observations , but meanwhile the only available data are those here communicated .
Apart , then , from the fifth mean value tabulated above , the present results , taken in conjunction with BROUN'S and FIGEE'S data as previously discussed , may be said to confirm with reasonable probability the hypothesis of tidal action .
The material is certainly not sufficient to determine the magnitude of the ratio of amplitudes at perigee and apogee to within a few per cent. , as is desirable .
It would The year was divided up into parts , summer , , and equinox , comprising May-August , , and the intervening months , respectively .
It does not sesm probable that the smallness of this resuIt for horizontal force represents a real phenomenon , especially as the second of the above mean values ( 1 43 ) would tend to the opposite conclusion .
1.66 .
S. CHAPMAN ON THE LUNAR DIURNAL MAGNETIC VARIATION , not be unreasonable to conclude from the present data that the effect of lunar distance may be a little less than the tidal theory would indicate ; but , at any rate , it seems clear that we may conclude that if the amplitude of the lunar magnetic variation is inversely proportional to the power of the moon 's distance , where is integral then can have no other value than three .
with .
Distance of the Phase of the Magnetic In computations by which the lunar magnetic variation data , discussed here and in a luer paper , were determined , the hourly values of the magnetic elements , after being freed from the solar diurnal variation , were written out in rows of twentyfive , the first value on each row corresponding to the civil hour nearest to the moon 's mel.idian transit on that day .
Hence the origin of lunar time is , in the mean , at the hour of lunar transit and is independent of the longitude of the moon in its orbit .
We shall represent the lunar magnetic variation by , where , measured from the origin just mentioned , increases by in a lunar day : then is the phase of the variation , which is found to vary with the longitude of the moon .
We shall denote its values at perigee and apogee by and , and its mean values during the half lunatio1ls centred at these epochs by and .
The differences and corresponding to the various observatories , elements , and seasons dealt with in Tables I. and II .
are given in Tables III .
and IV .
respectively ; in practically every case they are positive , indicating an acceleration of phase at perigee .
As a slight guide to the probable reliability of the determined phase angles , the mean of the amplitudes given in Tables I. and II .
are tabulated in Tables III .
and .
respectively .
The mean values of from Tables III .
, ( b ) , and , which , being derived from short periods , should show practically the whole phase change between these epochs , are Degrees .
Declination ( six determinations ) . . . . .
force ( five determinations ) . . . .
Vertical force ( four determinations ) . . . . .
Similarly the mean value of are , from Table IV .
, Degrees .
Declination ( six determinations ) Horizontal force ( six determinations ) Vertical force ( four determinations ) * A possible explanation of such a conclusion , if it were tantiated , might be framed along the lines indicated on p. 168 , paragraph .
The amplitude ratios for " " short periods\ldquo ; if had the values 2 , 4 would be respectively , and for half lunations , 1 14 and 1 31 respectively , which seem to be outside the probable limits of error of the observed resuIts .
Cf .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 214 , S3 .
AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
These mean results may be compared with individual results from the quoted memoirs by BROUN and FIGEE .
The values from BROUN'S paper are Degrees .
Trevandrum declination These differences ( on which BROUN made no remark ) confirm the phase change indicated in Table , though the amount is larger than the value there determined .
FIGEE gives the phase angles at perigee and apogee only for ation ( winter ) , dividing his sixteen years ' data into various groups as follows:\mdash ; Degrees .
Nine maximum sunspot years Seven minimum sunspot years 33 Eight odd years of the series 54 ight even years of the series 11 Whole sixteen years . . . .
37 He remarked : " " The first formulae reveal the remarkable property that occurrence of the maximum of the semi-diurnal wave was accelerated by the increasing magnetic force exercised by the moon from apogee to perigee , the amount of the acceleration being more than one hour , with a striking accordance in the two periods chosen ( maximum and minimum ) .
It was to be expected that a subdivision in two other series ( odd and even years ) should show a similar accordance , which unfortunately was not the case , as may be seen from the above figures .
By this the reality of an acceleration of the occurrence of the maximum with decreasing distance of the moon from the earth is made less probable , though certainly suggested by the above figures Discussion .
The whole body of evidence here collected makes clear the reality of this remarkable phase change , so that the differences between FIGEE'S various results would seem to be only accidental , large though some of them are .
The magnitude of the phase change is not very exactly determined , but it appears to be approximately 30 degrees between perigee and apogee .
The value of , if accurately known , should afford information as to how the varies between these epochs .
If the phase angle is harmonically periodic during a lunation , so that the formula for the lunar variation is ( where is the number of days in a lunation ) , then the mean phase angle during a half lunation should be times the phase angle at the middle point of this period , DR. S. CHAPMAN ON THE LUNAR DIURNAL MAGNETIC yARIATION , at whatever epoch this middle point may be .
Hence the value of should , on this hypothesis , be also ; in the present case , if the mean results from Tables IIL and IV .
be taken , its value is less than 2/ \mdash ; BROUS value of would satisfy the relation more exactly .
Without much more accurate data , however , it would be very unwise to conclude nitely that the phase angle does not vary harmonically throughout the lunation .
According to the theory of the lunar magnetic variations which was outlined in the Introduction to this paper , they are primarily due to a lunar atmospheric tide , which produces the electric currents responsible for the magnetic variations .
It is a question of ascertainable fact whether or not the changes in phase angle ( with change of lunar distance ) which are found in the lunar magnetic variations are already present in the lunar atmospheric tide , as revealed by the barometric records .
The computations necessary to determine this point have not , however , yet been made , and therefore in the present discussion it is advisable to consider what information in the matter may be derived from general theory .
Tn the case of the atmospheric tides , the tidal theory appropriate to a uniform ocean is presumably applicable .
A change of phase in the tide appears possible only if frictional forces are acting , and these would produce a retardation of phase , the nitude of which depends only on the period and not on the amplitude of the tidal oscillation .
In the case of the lunar atmospheric tide it is chiefly the amplitude which alters ( over a total range of 40 per cent while the period changes only by about 31 per cent. , being shorter at perigee than at apogee ; this ] result in a retardation of phase at perigee , though of negligible amount .
The matter may be regarded otherwise , as follows : the main lunar semi-diurnal tides are analysed into , an invariable semi-diurnal tide A , and the principal lunar elliptic tide ( see DARWIN'S 'Collected Papers , ' vol. 1 , p. 20 ) , the amplitude of which is approximately one-fifth of , and which may be described as semi-diurnal , but with a slowly changing phase angle which increases through during each lunation\mdash ; it may be written .
For convenience we may suppose the origin of chosen so that .
Theory does not definitely predict what , in the actual case , will be the value of , the difference in phase between and at ( say ) perigee , but it would be expected to be quite small .
The combination of and results in a semi-diurnal oscillation , the amplitude of which changes through a total range of 40 per cent. , while the phase varies through approximately 23 degrees , degrees on either side of the mean .
The maximum and minimum amplitudes occur at the epochs of mean phase .
If at perigee , the amplitude change would coincide with that observed in the lunar magnetic variation , but there would be no corresponding phase variation ; if , there would be no change of amplitude between perigee and apogee , but there would be a phase change of 23 degrees between apogee and perigee , in the direction observed in the lunar magnetic AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
variation .
For ermediate values of intermediate states would prevail\mdash ; e.g. , if , the amplitude change is reduced to a ratio , and there is a phase change of 17 degrees between perigee and apo , .
The observed amplitude change in the lunar magnetic variation might be a little less than , though hardly so much below this as ; this would be compatible , on the above view , with a change of phase of something less than 17 degrees .
Possibly in this way a part of the observed phase change in the lunar netic variation might be explained ( a more accurate determination of the amplitude change would decide this point more definitely ) , but in no circumstances could the whole of it be thus accounted for .
Probably the explanation which must be sought elsewhere will account for the whole of the phenomenon under discussion .
Before leaving the consideration of the atmospheric tide , its actually observed phase , as determined from forty years ' barometric observations at Batavia , may be adverted to .
The lunar diurnal variation of barometric pressure was found to be , being reckoned from the local time of the moon 's transit .
The fact that the tide is in advance of the moon is difficult to understand , and it is co1lceivable that the unknown cause which thus accelerates the tide also has some connection with the perigee-apogee phase change in the lunar magnetic variations .
So far no real light on the origin of this phase change has been found , since theoretical reasoning indicates no such change in the atmospheric tide which is supposed to produce the lunar magnetic variations .
Whether the phase of the tide does or does not so change is , as already stated , unknown ; if it is found to vary correspondingly with the magnetic variations , the tidal theory of the latter would be strengthened , though the phase change in the tides themselves would offer*problem demanding solution .
In the present state of ignorance , however , it is natural to consider whether , if the phase of the atmospheric tide is independent of lunar distance , the phase change in the magnetic variations could be accounted for in any electromagnetic way .
Self-induction is the only possible cause which suggests itself , and this , unfortunately , seems as incapable of offering an explanation as tidal friction was found to be ; ths effect of self-induction is to produce a phase retardation which is ndent of the amplitude of a periodic variation , but which diminishes with the period .
In the present case the variation of period would not account in this way for more than 1 degree change of phase .
What has been said as to the failure of tidal friction to explain the phase change in the lunar magnetic variation applies also to tides in the substance of the earth , so that even if ( as VAN supposed in his memoir already cited ) such body tides have a part in the production of the lunar etic v , they do not aid in the explanation of the phase change under discussion .
BEMMELEN in an CCXV .
amending paper ( ' Met .
Zeitschr .
, ' 12 , p. 589 , 1913 ) withdrew his earlier suggestion of a primary internal magnetic field concerned in the lunar variations ; it may be remarked incidentally that such a field is rendered unlikely by the magnitude of the components other than semi-diurnal in the magnetic variations .
* These appear to be excited by the -diurnal atmospheric tide in conjunction with a variable electrical co1lductivity of the atmosphere , depending on the solar hour angle ; their phases by multiples of in the course of a lunatio1l , according to ascertained laws .
While only secondary phenomena , they are comparable in magnitude with the main ( semi-diurnal ) component of the lunar variation , so much so , in fact , that it is hardly possible for more than a very small fraction of the latter to be due to internal causes , since this portion would not account for any part of the secondary components .
Since perigee and apogee occur at all phases of the moon during a sufficiently long period of time , no explanation of the perigee-apogee phase change in the netic variations can be looked for in any direct solar action .
Thus far , therefore , the attempt to assign a known cause to this remarkable phenomena has been unsuccessful .
It remains to make one more suggestion , which is at once very tentative and far from definite .
We should naturally suppose that the tidal efFect of the moon is to produce a lunar magnetic variation A , the amplitude ( A ) of which undergoes a regular variation of the kind observed , but which shows no change of phase ; the observed phase change might be produced if in some other way the moon produced a semi-diurnal magnetic variation of type , where exceeds by about 90 degrees , provided that is fairly small and that increases more quickly than A as the moon 's distance diminishes .
The combination would slightly increase the theoretical variation of amplitude , but this need only be by a small amount .
Not much importance can be attached to this suggestion , however , since it is very difficult to conceive of any way , other than tidal , in which the moon could produce a semi-diurnal variation of terrestrial magnetism .
Certainly no appreciable direct magnetic effect of the moon is at all likely , nor would it , in any case , supply the desired variation in the present instance , since its effect would be diurnal and not semi-diurnal .
The matter must therefore remain a mystery for the present , but it is a mystery whose solution may be the clue to some important new fact relating to magnetism of the atmospheric tides ; it is with this hope that I venture to publish the preceding very inconclusive discussion .
In conclusion it is a pleasure to acknowledge the assistance which has been placed at my disposal , in the execution of the computations involved in this paper , by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society . .
' Phil. Trans , vol. 213 , p. 279 , 1913 .
AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
TABLE I. atio of Mean Semi-alnplitudes of the Lunar Semi-diurnal Variation of Terrestrial Magnetism , during a number of periods of three or four days centred at igee and Apogee respectively .
Declination West .
tory .
Seas. . . .
orce u lVoi . .
SummecEquinoxSummer. . . . . .
Summer Batavia . . . . . .
( b ) Horizontal Force .
( c ) Vertical Force . .
S. CHAPMAN ON THE LUNAR DIURNAL MAGNETIC yARIATION , TABLE II.\mdash ; Ratio of Mean Semi-amplitudes of the Lunar Semi-diurnal Variation of Terrestrial Magiletism , during a number of half months centred at Perigee and Apogee respectively .
Declination West .
( b ) Horizontal Force .
( c ) Vertical Force .
AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
TABLE III.\mdash ; Differences in Phase Angle in the Formula for the Lunar Semi-diurnal Magnetic Variation at Perigee and Apogee , as determined from number of short periods centred at these epochs .
Declination West .
( b ) Horizontal Force .
rvatory .
VinterSummerSummcr sMean amplitudeom T Mean . .
( b ) Horizontal Force .
rvatory .
VinterSummerSummcr sMean amplitudeom T Mean . .
Phase difference , ( 27 ) ( c ) Vertical Force .
Phase differencc , 7 .
9 .
S. CHAPMAN ON THE LUNAR DI[IRNAL IsIAGNETIC VARIATION , IV.\mdash ; Differences in the Phase Angle in the Formula for the Lunar Semi-diurnal Magnetic Variation , at Perigee and Apogee , as determined from a number of half-lunations centred at these epochs .
( a ) Declination West .
( b ) Horizontal Force .
Phase differencs , Mean . . .
( c ) Vertical Force .
servatory .
eason.orce u Zi-Ka-Wci .
Ianila Mean . . .
AND ITS CHANGE WITH LUNAR DISTANCE .
( 1 ) The Seasonal Changes of If the values of from Tables III .
, ( b ) and IV .
, ( b ) be grouped together according to their season , it will be found that the mean value at the equinoxes is about double that at the other seasons , the difference being quite noticeable ; this was kindly pointed out to me by Prof. H. H. TURNEB , F.R.S. order to examine this point a little further ( since the result mentioned rests on material which is much more scanty for the equinox than for the other seasons ) , I caused the results given in Tables I. to IV .
( c ) ( for vertical force ) , to be computed .
These were not in the paper as originally communicated to the Royal Society , as I did not then kno that the amplitudes of the variations for this element and these seasons reached the value If now all the values of in Tables III .
and IV .
are grouped together according to season , and the means taken , we obtain the following results:\mdash ; Values of } III .
short .
Degrcos .
Summer from determinations . . . . . .
, , five Equinox . . . . .
, , five of from Table IV .
( long periods ) .
Degrccs .
' . . . . .
from six determinations .
Winter , , Equinox , , five Both groups of mean values show a progression in the phase change from summer to winter , with maxima at the equinoxes .
If this is really the case , the phenomenon should make success in the search for the cause of the phase change much more probable ; at present , however , the magnitude of the probable errors are such as to cast doubt on the reality of the seasonal change , and , until it is more definitely established , any attempt at its explanation would be premature .
( 2 ) The Atmospheric Tide .
Further information concerning this is contained in a memoir by WAGNER , who has discussed the barometric observations for the years 1903-8 made at Samoa .
The mean result for the semi-diurnal tide is , in millimetres , ( degrees ) .
*Omitting the negative value for Pola force .
G. GNER , 'Gottingen Abh IX .
, 4 ( 1913 ) .
The seasonal and synodic changes in this variation are discussed , and also the change during the anomalistic month ( from apogee to perigee ) .
But the result in the latter case is ( in the words of the author ) disappointing , as no clear progression is made out , presumably owing to the somewhat small amount of material used for discussion .
Such apparent change as the data show is a from apogee to perigee , but this cannot be relied on .
This first attempt to settle the point mentioned on p. 168 is therefore inconclusive , and further work on it is desirable .
The effect of lunar declination on the tide is also dealt with by WAGNER , without any decided result .
Since a tidal effect may be regarded as due to a moon and antimoon , one of which will be in Northerly declination when the other is Southerly , and , it does not seem probable that any explanation of the perigee-apogee magnetic phase change is to be found in the variation of lunar declination .

