II .
" On the Cause and Theoretic Value of the 1Resistance of Flexure in Beams .
" By W ... BARLOW , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The author refers to his previous papers , read in 1855 and 1857 , wherein he described experiments showing the existence of an element of strength in beams , which varied with the degree of flexure , and acts in addition to the resistance of tension and compression of the longitudinal fibres .
It was pointed out that the ratio of the actual strength of solid rectangular beams to the strength as computed by the theory of Liebnitz is , In cast iron , as about 2to 1 .
In wrought iron as 1 3 , and 13to 1 .
And in steel , as 1-4 and 1 to 1 .
The theory of Liebnitz assumes a beam to be composed of longitudinal fibres only , contiguous , but unconnected , and exercising no mutual lateral action .
But it is remarked that a beam so constituted would possess no power to resist transverse , stress , and would only have the properties of a rope .
Cast iron and steel contain no actual fibre , and wrought iron ( although some qualities are fibrous ) is able to resist strain nearly equally in any direction .
The idea of fibre is convenient as facilitating investigation ; but the word fibre , as applied to a homogenous elastic solid , must not be understood as meaning filaments of the material .
In effect it represents lines of direction , in which the action of forces can be ascertained and measured ; for in torsion-shearing andr " angular deformation " the fibres are treated by former writers as being at the angle of 450 , because it has been shown that the diagonal resistances have their greatest manifestation at that angle .
Elastic solids being admitted to possess powers of resistance in the direction of the diagonals , attention is called to omission of the effect of resistance in the theory of beams .
The author then states , as the result of his investigation , that compression and extension of the diagonal fibres constitute an element of strength equal to that of the longitudinal fibres , and that flexure is the consequence of the relative extensions and compressions in the direct and diagonal fibres , arising out of the amount , position , and direction of applied forces .
Pursuing the subject , it is shown that certain normal relations subsist between the strains of direct fibres and their relative diagonals , evenly distributed strain being that in which the strain in the direct fibres is accompanied by half the amount of strain in the relative diagonal fibres .
Any disturbance of this relation indicates the presence of another force .
Thus tensile forces applied at right angles to compressive forces of equal amount , produce no strain in the diagonals .
But if forces applied at right angles to each other are both tensile , or both compressive , the strain in the diagonal is as great as that in the direct fibres .
It is also pointed out that in a given fibre ab c , the point b may be moved with regard to a and c , thus producing plus and minus strains in the same fibre .
Treating a solid as being made up of a series of laminae , and showing that every change of figure can be represented by the variation in length of the diagonals , taken in connexion with those of the direct fibres , the author proceeds to trace the effects of the application of tensile and compressive forces acting longitudinally on either side of the neutral plane , and shows that curvature is the result of the relation between the strains in direct fibres and those in the diagonals .
The operation of a single tensile force applied along one side of the plate and a transverse stress are likewise traced out , and the conditions of " elastic equilibrium " referred to .
The amount of resistance offered by the diagonal fibres is shown as follows:d represents a portion of a beam strained by transverse es a ?
- , ca abCd repiesents a portion of a beam strained by traiisverse forces into the circular curve a e. Two resistances arise .
1 .
That due to the extension and compression of the longitudinal fibres produced by the rotation of bd about the neutral axis , which is the resistance considered in the theory of Leibnitz .
2 .
That due to the extension and compression of the diagonal fibres , caused by the deformation of the square abed into the figure aho c , which is the resistance of flexure .
It is then shown that in a solid rectangular beam , the second resistance is equal to the first , and that both resistances act independently , and consequently that the true theoretic resistance of a solid rectangular beam is exactly twice that arrived at by the theory of Leibnitz , The strength so computed is in general accordance with the results of experiments in cast iron , wrought iron , steel , and other materials , the maximum strength being found in cast iron , which is one-eighth above , and the minimum in glass , which is one-fourth below the calculated strength .
The author considers this treatment of the subject as arising necessarily out of Dr. Hook 's law " ut tensio sic vis , " and that it is in effect completing the application of those principles which were only partially applied by Leibnitz .
The paper concludes with some practical illustrations ( accompanied by photographs ) of the effect of diagonal action .
The appendix contains the results of experiments on the tensile , compressive , and transverse resistances of steel .

