IX .
Observations intended to show that the prgressive Motion of Snakes is partly performed by means of the Ribs .
By Everard Home , Esq. F. R. S. Read February 27 , 181x .
ON a former occasion I laid before the Society a description of the mechanism of the hood of the cobra de capello snake of the East Indies , the coluber naja of Linnaeus , in which the ribs of the neck are shown to be formed in a particular manner ; so that when they are raised , the skin becomes stretched out , and puts on the appearance of a hood .
The ribs so employed have several peculiarities , which , I took for granted , were confined to those of the neck , for I was not in possession of the bodies of the snakes , and therefore could not examine the others ; but have since found that many of these peculiarities are not only common to all the ribs of this snake , but to those of the whole tribe .
This fact , as it escaped my observation at that time , would have still done so , had it not been for the following circumstances .
A coluber of unusual size , lately brought to London to be exhibited , was shown to Sir JosEPHBANKS ; the animal was lively , and moved along the carpet briskly : while it was doing so , Sir JOSEPII thought he saw the ribs come forward in succession like the feet of a caterpillar .
This remark he immediately cormmunicated to me , and gave me an opportunity of.4 , 'inogr the snake and making my own observations .
Y2 tIsul , The fact was readily established , and I could feel the ribs with my fingers as they were brought forward ; when a hand was laid flat under the snake , the ends of the ribs were dis .
tinctly felt upon the palm , as the anitial passed over it .
This becomes a more interesting discovery , as it constitutes a new species of progressive motion , and one widely different from those already known .
In the draco volans the ribs form the skeleton of the wings , by means of which the animal flies , the five posterior ribs being bent backwards and elongated for that purpose , so that in that instance the progressive motion is performed by the ribs , but those particular ribs are superadded for this purpose , and make no part of the organs of respiration ; whereas in the snake the ribs are so constructed , as to perform their office with respect to the lungs as well as progressive motion .
That ribs are not essential to the breathing of all animals , whose lungs are situated in the same manner as in snakes , is proved by the siren having no ribs ; but as this animal has also gills , and can breathe in water as well as in air , the lungs are not so constantly employed , and probably a less perfect supply of air to them may suffice .
In animals in general , the ribs are articulated to the back bone by means of a convex surface , which moves upon a slightly concave one formed upon two of the vertebrae , partly on the one and partly on the other , so that their is a rib situated between every two vertebra of the back ; but in the snake tribe , the head of the rib has two slightly concave surfaces which move upon a convex protuberance belonging to each vertebra , so th a there is a rib to each of the vertebra .
One advantage of this peculiarity is , that it prevents the ribs from interfering with the motion of the vertebrae on one 164 another .
The vertebrae are articulated together by ball and socket joints ( the ball being formed upon the lower end and the socket on the upper one ) , and have therefore:uch more extensive motion than in other animals .
The muscles , which bring the ribs forward , consist of five sets , one from the transverse process of each vertebra to the rib immediately behind it , which rib is attached to the next vertebra .
The next set goes from the rib a little way from the spine just beyond where the former teriinates , it passes over two ribs , sending a slip to each , and is inserted into the third : there is a slip also connecting it with the next muscle in succession .
Under this is the third set , which arises from the posterior side of each rib , passes over two ribs , sending a lateral slip to the next muscle , and is inserted into the third rib behind it .
The fourth set passes from one rib over the next , and is inserted into the second rib .
The fifth set goes from rib to rib .
On the inside of the chest there is a strong set of muscles attached to the anterior surface of the vertebrae , and passing obliquely forwards over four ribs to be inserted into the fifth rib , nearly at the middle part between the two extremities .
From this part of each rib a strong flat muscle comes forward on each side over the viscera , forming the abdominal muscles , and uniting in a beautiful middle tindon , so that the lower half of each rib , which is beyond the origin of this muscle , and which is only laterally connected to it by loose cellular membrane , is external to the belly of the animal for the purpose of progressive motion ; and that half of each rib next the spine , as far as the lungs extend , is employed in respiration .
At the termination of each rib is a small cartilage in shape corresponding to the rib , only tapering to the point .
Those of the opposite ribs have no connection , and when the ribs are drawn outwards by the muscles , are separated to some distance , and rest through tleir whole length on the inner surface of the abdominal scuta , to which they are connected by a set of short muscles : they have also a connection with those of the neighbouring ribs by a set of short straight muscles .
These observations apply to snakes in generail ; but they have been particularly examined in a boa constrictor , three feet nine inches long , preserved in the Hunterian Museum .
In all snakes , the ribs are continued to the anus , while the lungs , seldom occupy more than one-half of the extent of the cavity covered by the ribs .
These lower ribs can only be employed for the purpose of progressive motion , and therefore correspond in that respect with the ribs in the draco volans superadded to form the wings .
The parts of which a description has been attempted , will be better understood by an inspection of Plates IV .
and V. than by any explanation that words can convey .
In Plate VI .
the joints between the vertebrma and ribs are represented of the natural size from the skeleton of a large boa , sent from the East Indies by the late Sir WILLIAM JONES a~d ddeposited in the Hunterian Museum .
On the under surface of the vertebra is a protuberance for the attachlment of muscles pectlar to ths genus , it varies in size in the different species , and explains the power attributed to tlre boa constricor .
When the snake is going to put itself in motion , the ribs of the opposie sides are drawn vFart from each other , and the small cartilages at the eids of threm are bent upon the upper surfaces of the abdominal scula , upon which the ends of the i66 ribs rest ; and as the ribs move in pairs , the scutum under each pair is carried along with it .
This scutum , by its posterior edge , lays hold of the ground and becomes a fixed point from whence to set out anew .
This motion is beautifully seen when ' a snake is climbing over an angle to get upon a flat surface .
When the animal is moving , it alters its shape from a circular or oval form , to something approaching to a triangle , of which the surface on the ground forms the base .
The coluber and boa having large abdominal scuta , which may be considered as hoofs or shoes , are the best fitted for this kind of progressive motion ; there is , however , a similar structure of ribs and muscles in the anguis and amphisbaena .
In the anguis the ribs are proportionally weaker , and as these have nothing to correspond with the scuta , it is probable this mode of progressive motion is less necessary to them .
The rings of the amphisbana are a near approach to the large scuta .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE IV .
A lateral view of the muscles of the boa constrictor .
A A. The straight muscles of the back .
B B. The first set of muscles which arises from the transverse process of each vertebra , and is inserted into the rib behind it close to its head .
C C. The second set .
D D. The third set .
E E. The fourth set .
F F. The fifth set .
G G. Short muscles which pass from cartilage to cartilage .
167 H H. A set of oblique muscles which passes from the anterior side of the bony extremity of each rib to the posterior edge of each scutum .
I I. Muscles which pass from the ribs near their heads ob .
liquely backwards , to be inserted into the skin at the edge of each scutum .
K. Muscles of the scuta .
PLATE V. An internal view of the abdominal muscles of the boa constrictor .
A A. The muscles which pass from cartilage to cartilage of the different ribs .
B B. A set of muscles which passes from the point of each rib over two ribs to the middle of the third .
C C. A similar set of muscles continued from the opposite side of the rib , passing over three ribs to the body of the vertebra , D D. The abdominal muscles which arise from the anterior edge of each rib , and pass to the linea alba .
E E. The linea alba .
F F. The termination of the set of oblique muscles which passes from the bony extremities of the ribs to the edges of the scuta .
G G. The muscles of the scuta consisting of two sets which decussate each other .
PLATE VI .
Represents two vertebra and portions of ribs of the large boa to show their articulating surfaces .
a a. The process peculiar to the vertebra of the boa .
s68 j7i , dos ' .
7t/ zl _9 .
M)lCCC(XIL a uztc ?
y. 16 .
F/ / I 77 ) / 7 / 1f / 1/ / ~ / 1 ; . ?
IIIHIi f. --11 t/ .0 efg2 ai v. / iIIIIiiiII(I i ?
f j ii:i : i:ii j i Z________ , o. 64'uray .
MDC CCXILIC/ 7-$r L p. z '8.A " ... .
i1ii !
; a/ = --= vE -L=-== i =D --=-L== -E-=-= LM -:== =:-----L -LDX -= =----X 43 e 1( ( lJ1 , SI .
/ -3 A.1_6 }XHR ; -

