]\gt ; 8 Dr. G. more fundamental cause .
It is possible that the daily range of the potential-gradient is dependenton latitude .
Our observations on the sea were all obtained within about of the Equator , and they show in common with land observations within the same latitudes a predominant minimum at about mid-day ; in higly latitudes land observations show the predominant minimum at 4 , while between these two extremes we have the two minima occurring ether , but with varying relative intensities .
May not therefore the afternoon minimum be of equal importance with the morning one , instead of being a disturbanoe caused by dust-changed convection currents ?
If this found to be the case , then the 4 .
minimum may be considered the polal minimum and the mid-day one the equatorial minimum .
Non-periodic Changes.\mdash ; With regard to minor fluctuations of the gradient it may be remarked that just as is the case over the land the .
potential over the sea undergoes changes from minute to minute .
As .
an example , the following readinga taken at minute intervals from 14 .
to 14 .
on , have been extracted haphazard from our notebook ; at the time the sky was cloudless except for a few small cumulus clouds on the horizon : , 30 , 40 , 47 , 43 , 57 , 50 , , 31 , 35 , 47 , 30 , , 35 .
The effect of rain was found to be the same on the sea as on the land .
As the rain approached the potential-gradient generally decreased , and during one period of steady rain , negative potential-gradient was noted .
When , however , the rain was associated with a squall the potential-gradient took large values , which changed rapidly from one sign to the other just as it doea during a thunderstorm on land .
It will be noticed that over the Atlantic in both hemispheres the emanation increases from latitude towards the Equator , but in the equatorial itself , i.e. within of the Equator , the emanation has a low .
The explanation of this interesting observation may probably be as follows:\mdash ; Between and in both hemispheres a belt of high pressure is situated in which air descends to feed the trade winds blowing towards the low pressure near the Equator .
The air descending from above must be almost free from emanation owing to the short life of the latter ; this no doubt accounts for the low values of A measured between and .
As the air travels towards the Equator over the sea , it takes up emanation from the sea-water , so that the emanation content will inclease in amount as the air gets further away from the place where it descended .
As soon , however , as the air reaches the Doldrums it.becomes thoroughly washed by the frequent heavy showers of rain , and in consequence smanation decreases long and cm .
in diameter , and fits directly on to a Wulf electrometer .
The aspirator is of the usual form supplied by this firm .
When working , litres of air pass the condenser in a minute , the electrical capacity of the condenser being cm .
According to the makers it is my necessary for the instrument to run for 5S minutes in order to get a satisfaotory determination of the ionisation .
Experience showed , however , that a really satisfactory observation could not be made under 33 minutes , and most of our observations extended to 44 minutes .
Our usual method was to charge the instrument with positive electricity and leave it for half am hour or so without the aspirator running in order to determine the insulation , leak .
The aspirator was then set in motion and when the bell attached to the revolution counter rang a reading was taken .
After each 2500 turns of the fan the bell rang again , and the instrument was wound up .
After the bell had rung six times ( about 11 minutes after starting ) a reading of the electroscope was taken .
The observation was continued for another similar interval and then again for a third .
Ifjthe three readings were in good agreement , the instrument was discharged and recharged with negative electricity .
If , however , the readings did not agree well the observation was continued for a fourth intervaL In the same way a measurement was made with a negative charge on the condenser , and afterwards the observation with positive charge was repeated .
Thus each complete observation ( leaving out the period of insulation test ) extended over a period of between 1 .
and 2 .
Only those observations have been used in the following discussion in which the complete sequence as just sketched was carried out .
With the Wulf electroscope good observations were possible even when the ship was rolling to a considerable. .
extent .
Owing to unforeseen difficulties , satisfactory determinations of the 2 ) the large amount of spray and salt might decrease the total ionisatiou , just as fog and dust have been proved to do .
A division of the : acoording to wind strength indicates the latter effect , for , as the following table shows , both the ionisation and ths ratio are less with high wind ' than with light winds:\mdash ; The value of the ionisation measured on this voyage agrees fairly well with the only two other sets of observations made over the ocean .
Eve , in a journey from Canada to England , *ffiuud I and .
Boltzmann found over the Atlantic Ocean The ionisation over the land is so dependent on meteorological conditions that it is difficult to choose data to compare with our results .
Perhaps the most suitable are those of one of us observed in Karasjok , in Lapland .
At that place the ionisation was found to depend very largely on temperature and the results of observations at temperatures comparable with those encountered on the " " Terra Nova\ldquo ; are shown in the following table:\mdash ; Karasjok ( Lapland ) .
of the ionisation current .
As the rate of decrease during the second hour was always appreciably the same as during the no correction has been applied for defective insulation .
FIG. 2 .
}

