]\gt ; Experiments to test whether the -Rays are polarised .
By R. D. KLEEMAN , D.Sc .
, B.A. , Research Student of Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received June 19 , \mdash ; Read June 24 , 1909 .
) When an electron is given an accelerated motion along a straight line , a spherical pulse of electric and magnetic force is sent out , and the maximum force lies in a plane at right angles to the direction of acceleration .
The want of symmetry in the distribution of the force with respect to the direction of acceleration of the electron gave rise to the term polarisation .
Barkla*has shown that the primary -rays from an -ray tube are partially polarised , that is to say , that the maximum radiation proceeds in a plane at angles to the direction of ation of the cathode rays .
If the secondary -rays are produced by electrons set in motion by the primary pulses we should expect that , under certain conditions , the secondary rays would also be polarised .
This has also been shown to be the case by Barkla .
Since there is a considerable body of evidence to show that -rays and -rays are similar in kind , it was thought by the writer that it would be of importance to make some experiments in order to discover whether secondary -rays are polarised .
According to the aether-pulse theory of Bontgen-and -rays , when a pulse passes over an electron in an atom , the electron , being negatively charged , is accelerated in a direction opposite to that of the electric intensity in the pulse .
During the passage of an unpolarised primary beam of rays , these accelerations are uniformly distributed in direction in a plane perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the beam .
If is the charge , the acceleration of the electron , its distance from iven point , and the angle between and , then the electric force at is , where is the velocity of light .
If is on the line of propagation of the primary beam , and the electric force is ; while if is in the plane passing through the electron and perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the primary beam , varies uniformly from to .
The intensities of the radiation in the two directions are therefore proportional to the average values of and respectively .
But when the primary beam is unpolarised the average value of , consequently the intensity of the ' Phil. Trans , vol. 214 , 1905 , p. 467 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 76 , 1906 , p. 247 .
Experiments to test whether -Rays .
41 secondary radiation in the direction of propagation of the primary beam is twice the intensity in a direction at right angles to the direction of propagation .
Barkla* measured the amount of secondary radiation from different materials exposed to -rays in two directions at right angles , one of these directions being parallel to the primary beam .
Using a carbon radiator , he found that with soft X-rays the intensities of the radiation in the two directions were in the ratio 2 : 1 as indicated by theory .
But when the penetrating power of the -rays was increased he found that the ratio decreased .
For example , in a particular case , using a very penetrating beam of -rays , the ratio dropped to He found , further , that with substances of much higher atomic weight than carbon , for instance copper , iron , tin , the intensities of the radiation in the two directions were practically equal , or at any rate there were only very slight variations .
The extent of polarisation must obviously be affected by the secondary radiation being to a certain extent absorbed and thus giving rise to tertiary radiation , etc. This would have the effect , as a moment 's reflection will show , of lowering the ratio .
The lowering of the ratio observed in the case of radiators consisting of elemerlGs of high atomic weight is probably due to this cause .
The ratio will also be lowered if the primary and secondary beams do not consist of parallel rays .
For consider the case of two electrons A and under the action of a primary beam diverging from a point in the line OC isecting AB at angles .
Let us compare the intensities of the radiation at the points , in the line OC , and in the line AB .
We take say .
Let OC and the angle AOC APC The acceleration of A is along a line in the plane perpendicular to OA , FIO .
1 .
making an angle with the plane of the paper .
The angle between AP and this line is where and 'Phil .
Mag February , 1908 , p. 288 .
Dr. R. D. Kleeman .
to test [ June 19 , The value of this expression for all values of is , and the tensity at due to A and is proportional to Similarly , the intensity at is to and the is ) .
( 1 ) The ratio is 2 : 1 , and are , as it should be , and is viously less than this if and finite values .
If the point L ) on the ) to the plane of the ) aper t the ratio of the intensity to at b is .
( 2 ) This ) ession also is 2 : 1 if zero and less thau 2 : 1 if and have any finite values .
If be in the planc throug A to the plane of the paper , it is evident that the of the ratio is always intermediate between the values given by essions ( , and is therefore always less than 2 : 1 if and are finite .
Any body synnnetrical about line OC be divided up into pairs of points such as A and and for such pair of points the ratio of the intensities at any } points and is less than 2 : 1 .
It follows by fration that for the whole body the atio of the intensities at any two points I ) and is less than 2 : 1 .
This is a point to be noticed in connection yith the experiments on the polarisation of ry -rays .
FIG. 2 .
1909 .
] the Consider a circular disc of radius Let be the the erin of the prinlftl'y radiation , the point at which the intensity of the secondar ) radiation is measured .
Let be auy point of the disc , Then the intensity at is , absorption , to OC the value of this , as , is The of the intensitieks for a section of he in these expel i A an electr( scope 1aced between two lead blocks 1 ) and , the FIG. .
long , 10 ) .
deep , while .
broad , and 10 cm .
deep .
The system ested on a lead slab long , 20 cm .
broad , and 5 cm .
thick .
Anothel .
nilar slab rested on } of this arrangement , being by the blocks , and C. The electroscope thus contained in a sort of tunnel which shielded it from external radiations except through the ends .
The electroscope ] consisted of box 10 .
by 10 cm .
by cm . .
The side of the electroscope the radiator consisted of zinc .
thick , the other walls , of zinc 2 mm. thick , covered by1 mm. of lead .
The window of the electroscope radiator was of glass 6 .
thick .
The leaf of the electroscope was of Dutch metal fastened to a copper wire , suspended Dr. R. D. Kleeman .
Experiments to test [ June sulphur bead in the usual way .
It was charged through the wire by rotating this wire till it made contact with , charging the whole by means .
of an electrified ebonite rod , and then breaking the contact .
The motion of the leaf was observed by a telescope through a window in the side of theelectroscope remote from the radiator .
Fig. 4 shows a vertical section of the apparatus .
FJO .
4 .
The radiator consisted of a cylindel of wood with a hole through it .
along the axis .
It was supported on the pin is an arm firmly attached to the rod , which was contained in the tube , so that it could be rotated in a horizontal plane .
is a piece of wood with a metal } which fitted loosely on the arm , so that it could be moved along and fixed at any point by means of wedges inserted in the ring .
The radium was fixed at on top of the piece of wood Readings of the leak in the electroscope were taken with the radiator on the pin , and with the radiator removed to a distance .
The difference of the two readings ives the leak due to the secondary radiation from the radiator .
This was done for different values of the angle , fig. 3 , between the lines to the radimn and the electroscope .
The natural leak of the electroscope was small , about division per minute .
If the same amount of secondary radiation is produced in every element of volume of the cylindrical radiator , then the theoretical values of the radiation for different values of the angle are given by the expression ( 3 ) .
The condition was approximately fulfilled by the radiators used .
For example , in one experiment the radiator consisted of a wooden cylinder , cm .
long and 11 cm .
in diameter .
The density of the wood 1909 .
] whether the are polarised .
was about .
Now if denotes the absorption coefficient for rays , and the density , for light materials is about .
Thus for the radiator used .
that the amount of secondary radiation produced is proportional to the intensity of the incident radiation , the difference in the amounts of secondary radiation produced at opposite ends of the diameter parallel to the direction of propagation of the incident radiation is 15 per cent. of that produced at the nearer end .
In the experiments the centre of the radiator was about 26 cm .
from the centre of the electroscope .
When the angle was charged from to \mdash ; the extreme values of the angle for which measurements of the inntensity were made\mdash ; the distance of the point of the radiator nearest the radium from the electroscope increased by cm .
Thus the error introduced by absorption is certainly less than 7 .
, that is less than per cent. , and is probably much less .
Readings were first taken with the wooden radiator described above , the distance of from the radium being 21 cm .
, and from the centre of electroscope 26 cm .
; 34 milligrammes of radium were used .
The difference between the leaks obtained with and without the radiator was about 20 per cent. of either , and was aboutl diyision per minute .
When 90 rammes of radium were used , the difference of the leaks , that is the leak due to secondary radiation , was , of course , three times as large , and was more than 50 per cent. of the total leak .
The duration of each reading was about four minutes .
The observer usually walked away a reading so as not to introduce the radiation from his own body .
The time of leak was so arranged that at the end the leaf was always at the same part of the scale , so as to avoid any error due to variation in sensitiyeness of the electroscope for different positions of the leaf .
In curve , fig. 5 , the leaks per minute are plotted ainst the earl It will be observed that the curve has a sharp bend at to the ordinary theory , the radiation curve ought to show a decided minimum at , and rise to about an equal extent on either side of this value of Taking the radiation at as unity , the expression ( 3 ) gives for the radiation at and for that at The correction for absorption will possibly increase the radiation at Dr. R. D. Kleeman .
Experiments to test [ June 19 , and diminish that at by ) cent. Making this alteration , the values become for and for The OlNections for want of parallelism and for absorption are thus coml)aratively unimportant .
But the experimental values , as shown by the curve , are widely different .
They are about for for The secondary radiation in the direction of propagation of the primary radiation is much greater than that in the opposite direction .
lt is , indeed , three times as great .
When the distances between radiat ' and electroscope and radium were creased , a curve similar to A was obtained .
In order to make sure that some of the given off by the radiator did not penetrate into the electroscope , readings were taken with a plate of glass 6 .
thick placed over the end of the lead tunnel the radium .
It found that the leaks were only decreased , that the radiation entering the chamber was of more penetrating character than -rays .
curve 1 } obtained was of the form before .
eadings were next taken with the radiator in the same position as in the fi1st experiu } , and instead of the 34 ranlmes of radium , emanation corresI ) to 90 .
of radium used as a source of -rays .
The 1909 .
] .
-liays Ci.e 47 secondary radiation was now about three times .
A set of carried out in the same way as before gave a curve to A. The between the centre of the radiator and the centlB of the electroscope was next increased to 32 cm .
The emanation and the 34 millirammes of radium were used as a source of -rays , and were placed at a distance of 24 .
from the centre of the radiator .
The curve obtained is of the same type as before .
The in the distances between radiator , electroscope has thns produced no in the of the curve .
A diator of smaller ionH but ) somewhat vood next nsed .
lt cm .
diameter and 11 cm .
long .
distance of ittt centre centre of the electroscope was ] distance the adium 2 cm .
Curve ) obtained with this .
It is similar to the curves obtained previously .
That secondary radiation proceeding dircction the primary Dr. R. D. Kleeman .
Experiments to test [ June 19 , by Madsen .
* These experiments further show that the radiation in a plane containing the prima1y rays and the radiator passes through a minimum at right angles to the primary rays .
We have seen that the ratio of the two streams of returned radiation making an angle of and respectively with the primary rays is considerably smaller than it would be if complete polarisation of the rays existed according to the aether-pulse theory .
Since imperfect polarisation is obtained with hard -rays , we should expect that if polarisation of the secondary -rays does exist it would not be so marked as obtained with soft -rays .
The effect of polarisation is to produce initially two streams of secondary rays parallel to the primary , a forward and a backward stream .
Consequently the returned radiation in comparison with that moving onwards is much than would be case if the secondary radiation consisted initially of a single forward stream which could undergo scattering o1lly .
This would explain the greater want of symmetry between the secondary radiations in the two directions which occurs with -rays .
has recently npared the returned secondary -radiation with that onwards , produced by -rays falling on thin metal foil .
He finds the stream of rays much larger in comparison with the returned than occurs in the case of and -rays according to his own and Prof. experiments .
Since the experiments with and X-rays show that the want of symmetry increases with the hardness of the rays , and the and X-rays are much more penetrating than the -rays , we would expect that just the opposite should be the case .
In the case of -rays , we have seen , this discrepancy can be explained by the existence of polarisation ; and it seems not unreasonable to suppose that the same explanation holds for the -rays .
The writer intends to make further tests for the polarisation of secondary -rays by a different method .
Some were next taken with flat rectangular radiators .
The radiator was fixed in position , and the angle between its surface and the line joining its centre , fig. 7 , to the electroscope was a known angle .
Let ON be the normal to the radiator .
Readings were taken with the radium at , and with the radium at .
The aIlgles AON and A'ON were equal , each being , say .
It will be observed that the absorption by the block is the same in the two cases .
In the actual ement A was a right angle and AOE was .
It follows that .
The radiation on the aether-pulse theory ought to be greater when the radium is at A than when it is at .
The same ' Trans. Roy .
Soc. of S. Australia , ' vol. 31 , 1908 .
' Trans. Boy .
Soc. of S. Australia , ' vol. 33 , 1909 .
1909 .
] prhether the Second would be true if we supposed there were only a backward stream of secondary radiation ; while if there were only a forward stream the radiation should be much greater when the radium is at than when it is at A. As a 1natter of fact they were found to be nearly equal .
The two positions A and correspond to and in the previous experiments , and this result therefore agrees with those previonsly obtained .
When a brick measuring .
was used as radiator , the radiation responding to the position A was greater than that to With two tiles , each cm .
, placed the radiations were approximately the same .
When a wooden slab cm .
was used the adiation corresponding to the position A was , while that corresponding to was in arbitrary units .
In .
experiment , when a lar , quantity of radium was used , the values were and The results obtained with the slab radiators , it will be seen , fit in with those obtained with the cylindrical radiators .
If -rays instead of -rays had been allowed to fall on the slabs in the above experiments , the radiation corresponding to the position woul have been considerably larger than that corresponding to , according to the results that have been obtained on the distribution of the secondary -radiation from plates , showing that the distribution of the secondary -radiation round a radiator differs considerably from that obtained in the case of secondary -rays .
The experiments described in this paper were carried out in the ] atory of the University of Manchester .
I now take the opportunity of expressing my sincere thanks to Prof. ntherford for his kind interest and advice during the experiments .
VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A.

