A NACCOMPT Concerning the Baths of Austria and Hungary ; as also some Stone-Quarries , Talcum rocks , &amp;c. in those parts : By the same hand .
IN order to answer some of the other queries ; I here present you with this Account concerning Baths , and some other subjects , contained therein .
Baden is a little City in Austria , four German miles Southward from Vienna , seated on a plain , but nigh unto a ridge of hills , which are the excursions of Mount Cetius .
It is much resorted unto by reason of the Natural Baths of that place , wherein the Springs are so numerous , as to afford convenient Baths ; two within the Town , five without the Wall , and 2 beyond a rivolet called Swechet .
The Dukes-Bath is the largest , about 20 feet square , in the middle of an house of the same figure , built over it .
The Vapour passes , through a tunnel of wood , at the top : and the Water is conveyed into the bottom of the Bath , at one corner , through woodden pipes and trees , under the Town-wall , from the Spring head , which rises at a little distance West-ward .
The Springs of the rest of the Baths rise under them , and are let in through holes of the Plancher , for all the Baths are wainscoted , the seats , sides and bottoms being made of Fur .
The Water for the most part is clear and transparent , yet somewhat bluish , and makes the skin appear pale in it , as doth the smoke of Brimstone .
It coloreth Metals ( except Gold , whose colour it also heightens ) turning them black in a few minutes .
The Coin of this Country , mixed of Copper and Silver , ( having 7/ 15 of Silver , and 8/ 15 of Copper .
) is in a minutes time turned from a white into a dark yellow , and soon after becomes black .
To the Moss and Plants , which it washes , it gives a fine green colour , and leaves often a scum upon them of a Purple mixed with white .
As it runs from the Spring-head , it somewhat resembles the Sulphur-river in the way from Tivoli to Rome , but is not so strong or stinking , nor doth it incrustate its banks .
The Spring-head is also considerable , in regard that it rises under a rocky hill at some distance from the entrance into it : For , I passed to it , about the length of 40 .
yards , through an Arched passage cut in the rock , which is also a natural stove , ( as that of Tritola and Bajae ) made by the hot Bath water running under it .
Most part of this Cave is incrustated with a white substance , by them called Salt-peter , whereof I have sent you some .
At the mouth of the Cave it becomes harder and stony .
I caused some of the pipes , through which the Bath-water runs , to be opened , and from the upper part of the pipe , I took some quantity of fine Sulphur in powder , somewhat like Flowers of Brimstone ; this being as 'twere , sublimed from the water , and not deposed , being found in the upper part of the pipe .
Oleum Sulph .
per campanam dropped into this water , is received into it quietly .
Oleumtart .
per deliquium causes an ebullstion , as in the making of Tartarum Vitriolatum .
The second Bath within the Wall is that of our Lady , about 12 foot broad , and 24 long .
One end of it is under a Church of the same name .
This is fuller of Sulphur than the rest , and more blew , and leaves a yellow Flower upon the boards , as the others doe a white .
The third is the New Bath , out of the Town nigh the Gate : which when I saw was full of people singing .
The fourth , the Jews-Bath , which hath a partition in the middle to separate the men from the Women .
The fifth , St. Johns Bath , of a Triangular form .
The sixth , the Beggars Bath , always shallow , so as they lie down in it .
The Seventh , the Bath of the Holy-Cross , about two fathoms square , chiefly for the Clergy .
The eighth , Saint Peters Bath , greener than the rest .
The nin h , the Sower Bath , set about with Stone-balastres , and covered with an handsome Cupola and Lanthorn .
The water is very clear ; In the Steam of this Bath I have often coloured money black without touching the Water ; and staying only in the room , where the Bath is , the buttons of my clothes , and whatelse of Silver the Vapour could come at , were colored yellow or guilded ; and yet the water itself , once cold , changes not the colour of Metals , though boiled in it .
The hottest of these Baths have not the heat of the Queens Bath at Bath in England .
They use no Guides , as with us , but direct themselves with a short turned staff .
Manners-dorss , seated under an Hill on the East-side of the river Leyta hath only one Bath .
It rises under a Church , built over the Spring-head .
The water of it is luke-warm , and therefore they boil it in great Coppers , when they desire it hotter , and bath in Tubbs , filled with this boiled water .
From the substance , which sticks to the Coppers in boiling , it is collected , that it is impregnated with Sulphur , Salt-peter and Chalk .
This water colours the stones in it of a fair green like a Turkois ; and the Steam of it , which sticks to the Moss under the Church , turns into drops of Gold or Amber .
Dotis , 2 Hungarian miles from Comora in Hungary , famous for being watered with great numbers of Springs , hath also Sulphureous Baths , said to be warm in Winter .
I was there in March and October , and both times found their warmth very remiss , scarce perceiveable .
In colour they are bluish , and to taste acid .
The Queens-bath and the Great-Bath rise in a Marsh , North-ward of the Cattle .
There is another Bath in the Governors garden within the Town .
They are used as those of Manners dorf , by being boiled , and powered into Bathing tubbs .
At Banka , two Hungar .
miles from Freistat , in a Meadow , I took notice of 15 .
Baths : And there h ve been more , but the river Waag eats away the banks , and swallows up the Baths , and into three of these 15 .
it hath also broke in .
The Water of these is like to that of Baden in Austria ; it leaves a white Sediment meant upon the Moss and places it washes , and tinctureth metals black : which I experimented by putting money into it ; and sticking some into the ground over which the water passes , that part , which was in the ground , retained its own colour , and the other part in the Bath-water acquired a Coal-black .
These Bathes are open , and very hot .
The Baths of Boinitz nigh the river Nitra in Hungary , are of a moderat gentle heat , delightful to bath in , much beautified by Count Palfi Palatine of Hungary : And all of them covered under one large roof .
The first is the Noblemens Bath , built of stone descended into on all sides by stone-stayres .
Four more there are of Wood , but very handsomely and well built .
At Stub'n , 3 Hungarian miles from Newsol , and 2 from Chremnitz , near to a rivolet , are divers Baths of great esteem , and much frequented ; the water whereof is clear , and smells of Sulphur ; the sediment green .
It colours the wood over it green and black , but does not change the colour of metals so soon as most others .
I left money in it a whole night , which was yet but faintly coloured .
The Springs arise under-neath , and pass thorough the holes in the plancher of the Baths .
The heat thereof is answerable to the Kings-Bath in England .
These Baths are 7 .
The first , is the Noblemans Bath .
The second , the Gentlemans .
The third , the Country-mans , The fourth , the Country-womans .
The fifth , the Beggars-bath .
The sixt , for such as are infected with the Lues Venerea .
The seventh , the Bath of the Gypsies ; of whom there are many in those parts .
These Baths are in a plain , encompassed on all sides with hills .
The nighest unto them are towards the East ; and it is the same ridge of hills , which on the other side are so rich in Metals .
Glas-Hitten , an Hungarian mile , or about 7 .
English-miles from Schemnitz , hath five Baths ; two of which are large .
It deposes a red sediment , and incrustates the wood and seats of the Bath under water with a stony substance ; and it guilds Silver .
But the most remarkable of these Baths is that , which is called the Sweating Bath , whose hot Springs drain thorough an hill , and fall into a Bath , built to receive them ; at one end of which , by ascending , I went into a Cave , which is made a noble Stove by the heat of these Thermae , and so ordered with Seats , that every one who fits in it , either by chusing an higher or lower seat , may regulate his sweating , or enjoy what degree of heat he desires .
This Cave , as also the sides of the Bath , are covered , by the continual dropping of these hot springs , with a red , white and green substance : the red and green make the best show , but the white is used against the Stone , and cures Ulcers and sore backs of horses .
Eisen-bach , about 4 English miles from Glas-Hitten , and 5 or 6 .
from Schemniz , hath also hot Baths ; which I suppose are those inquired after in your last Question .
Here are sent you divers pieces of that sediment and stone , taken out of these Baths ; and one , which I took from the end of a Spout , through which these Thermae had formerly passed .
The wood still sticks to the bottom of it , but is not turned into stone ( as you may see : ) Yet I have seen great trees , placed at the top or superficies of the water in the Bath , which have suffered petrifaction .
Here are two convenient Baths , much frequented ; and a third , which is made by the water let out of the former , called the Snakes-bath , from the number of Snakes coming into and delighting in it , when it is filled with these warm waters .
The natural Baths of Buda are esteemed the noblest of Europe , not only in respect of the large and hot springs , but the magnificence of there Buildings .
For the Turks bath very much , and , though little curious in most of their private houses , yet are they very sumptuous in their Public Buildings , as their Chans or Caravansara 's , Mosches , Bridges and Baths declare .
There are 8 Baths , whereof I had opportunity to take notice during my stay at Buda ; 3 towards the East and South-Eastpart of the City , in the way leading towards Constantinople ; and 5 , towards the West-end of the Town in the way towards Old Offen , and Strigonium .
The first , is a large open Bath at the foot of an high rocky hill , formerly called Purgatorium , whereof the people have some odd and scruplous apprehensions .
The second is covered with a Cupola , and stands nigh the same Hill , but more into the Town , and near a place where they use Tanning .
The third is called the Bath of the Green Pillars , though at present they be of a red colour ; and it stands over against the Caravansara .
The water is hot , but tolerable , without addition of cold water .
It is impregnated with a Petrifying juice , which discovers it self on the sides of the Bath upon the Spouts and other places , and makes a gray stone : And the Exhalation from the Bath , reverberated by the Cupola , by the Irons extended from one Column to another , and by the Capitals of the Pillars , forms long stones like Ice-icles , which hang to all the said places ; such as may be observed in many subterraneous Grotto 's , and particularly in England in Okey-hole in Somerset-Shire , and Pooles-hole in Darby-shire .
The water is let out at night , when the women have done bathing who often stay late .
The Bath is round set about with large Pillars supporting a Cupola , which hath openings to let out the steam thereof ; and yet the whole room continues to be an hotstove .
The Baths of the West-end of the Town are 1 .
Tactalli or the Bath of the Table ; a small Bath covered : the Water white , and of a Sulphureous smell .
They drink of this as well as bath in it .
What they drink , they receive from a Spout , bringing the Water into this place .
I delivered a fivesols-piece to a Turk , bathing in it , to guild for me , which he did in about a minute , by rubbing it between his fingers , while the hot water fell from the spout upon it .
2 .
Barut Degrimene , or the Bath of the Powder-mill .
It rises in an open pond near the high way , and mixes with the fresh Springs , so that the pond is of a whitish colour in one part and clear in the other , as also cold and hot in several parts .
This conveyed cross the high way into a Powder-mill , becomes useful in making of Gun-powder .
They conceive here , that this Bath communicates with the Sulphureous Springs at Dotis , many miles distant .
3 .
Cuzzoculige , the little Bath or the Bath of the Saint ; for which name the Turks give a superstitious reason .
Tis kept by Turkish Monks .
The Bath , where the Springs arise , is so hot as scarce to be endured ; but being let out into another bathing place at some distance , it becomes tolerable and fit for use .
This water hath neither colour , smell , nor taste different from Common water , and deposes no sediment ; only the sides of the Bath are green , and have a fungous substance all over .
4 .
Kaplih , a very noble Bath , but part of the buildings was consumed this year ( 1669 ) by a great fire which happened in Buda ; but is by this time repaired by the Turks .
The water is very hot , not without a petrifying juice in it .
The Building about is eight square , with a noble Bath in the middle ; with a circle of a Trench of water about it for the better ornament .
On every side it has a Nichio , wherein is a fountain .
In the middle of the Antechamber ( where they leave their cloaths ) there is also a fair Stone bason and a fountain .
5 .
The Bath of Velibey ; which hath a strong Sulphureous smell , and a petrifying juice in it ; and is so hot , that to make it tolerable , it requires the addition of cold water .
This is the noblest Bath of any .
The Anti-chamber very large , the Bath-room capacious , and high-arched , and adorned with 5 .
Cupola 's one a very fair one , over the great round Bath in the middle ; and one lesser , over each of the 4 corners ; where are either Baths or Bathstoves for more private use : In these the Turks take off the hair of their Bodies by a psilothrum mixed with soap ; it being not their custom , to have any hair , except on their beards , and a lock on the crown of their heads .
Twelve Pillars support the great Cupola , between 8 whereof are fountains of the hot water , and between the other are places to sit down , where the Barbers and Bath-men attend .
And each of these places have 2 cisterns of free-stone , into which are let in hot Bath-water and also cold water , to be mixed and tempered as every one pleases .
Men bathe in the morning , and Women in the afternoon .
When any man intends to bathe , having entered the first rooms , he finds there divers servants attending , and furnishing him with a cloth and apron .
Then he puts off his apparel , and having put on the apron , he entreth the 2d room , wherein the great Bath is , and sits on the side of the Bath , or between the Pillars nigh a fountain ; where the Barber strongly rubs him with his hand opened , stretching out his arms , and listing them up , after which the party batheth .
Then , if he be a subject of the G. Signors , or , it be the custom of his Country , he hath his head shaved , and if a young man , his beard , except the upper-lip .
Next , the Barber rubs his breast , back , arms and legs , with an hair-cloth , while he either sits , or lies with his face downward ; then washes his head with soap , and after throws cold water upon him all over his Body ; and so the party walks about in the steam of the Bath for a time .
These Baths are made use of two ways , either by entring into the water , or sitting about the Bath in the steam .
For the vapour of the Bath makes the whole room a stove ; and most sweat as long as they stay in it ; and some enter not the water at all , but have it powered upon them or else only continue in the steam of the Bath ; which sufficiently provokes sweat .
So much of the Baths .
Upon the side of Mount Calenberg , towards the North are Stones marked with Trees and Leaves .
In the Hermitage of the Camaldulenses , seated upon a Peak of this hill , I saw fair ones , with which they paved the walk in their Gardens .
This place is 2 German miles from Vienna .
Not far from Manners-dorf is the Emperor 's Quarry of Stone , out of which are made the best Buildings in Vienna : In which , where-soever there is a cleft or separation of one stone from another , the water falling betwixt them , leaves a petrification , thereby , as 'twere , healing the wound , by making a stony callus , not exactly like the parts , which it joins together .
An English mile from Freistat in Hungary North-ward , is a Quarry of Stone , out of which many great Stones are digged , transparent and resembling Sugarcandy .
At Banca , two Hungar .
miles from Freistat North-ward , is a Quarry of white stone , nigh the Hot Baths of that place ; over which is a lay of Chalk of about a yard thick , very beautiful to the Eye , as being of all colors , except green ; so finely mixed , streaked , and shaded , that it surpasses Marble-paper ; and the water dropping upon it , doth as twere varnish it .
At Schemnitz in Hungary , famous for Silver-Mines , is an high perpendicular Rock , part of which , from the top to the bottom , is naturally tinctured with a shining fair blew and green : And I have heard from a Spaniard , who lived long in the West-Indies , that there is also a rock , like this nigh to the Silver-mines in Peru .
The Mountain of Clissura , being a part of Mount Haemus , as also Mount Pyrlipe ( both which I passed over travelling from Belgrade towards Larissa in Thessaly ) doe shine like Silver , and day and night , either by the light of the Sun or Moon , afford a glittering pleasant show , caused by the great quantity of Muscovy glass , wherewith these Hills abound .
There are also Talcum-rocks nigh Spitall in upper Carinthia , as I have been informed by M. Donellan , who lives there .
I am unwilling to omit an Hill nigh Sarvizza , two days journey on this side Larissa , which consists of an earth of a fine red colour , out of which the red Earthen Vessels of that Country are made ; as also the great number of Acidulae nigh Transchin in Hungary , there being 32 plentiful springs of them ; likewise an Hot Bath nigh Bellacherqua in Bulgaria , it being scituated far from any habitation , yet well built by the Turks , and very refreshing to Travellours .
It hath a red sediment , and makes a gray stone .
Being at Larissa in Thessaly , where the Gr .
Segnor hath long resided , I understood , that he had passed a good part of the hot Summer of 1669 .
upon the neighbouring mount Olympus ; and by the Interpreters to the Emperors Resident , the Illustriss~ Signor di Casa nova , ( who were obliged to attend the Sultan upon the mountain ) I was informed that there was a Spring of a whitish water upon that Hill , which was drank of by many persons in their great heat and thirst , contracted by ascending the mountain , but proved very destructive unto them in 3 days , they then complaining of an heaviness and coldness of their Stomacks till they

