]\gt ; The 'ing .
Soumd by Frothy 39 ] convection , even when the ordinary hutter of the balance case is lifted .
An additional is gained by a differential bolometer within the inner or beam case ; for we are then enabled to ascertain , at any time , whether the temperature of the two arms is uniform or not .
iome few of the numerous results are represented graphically rather in tabular form .
In this way the facts to which it is desired to attention are brought out more clearly and prominently .
The dispositions and forms of tlJe apparatus used are shown in diagrams ; the efficiencies of the various of knife-edges employed in balances also discussed .
The by By A. LLOCK , F.R.S. Received Eead June The fact that a tumbler containing a frothy liqnid gives a dull sound when struck is familiar to every one , but 1 cannot find that any ) of the rapid of the vibrations , which is indicated by the of the sonnd , has been published .
The co yerse case , namely , that of waves propagated in which small solid or liquid spheres are disseminated , ] attention , and the lesults deduced , which agree with observation , are to the effect that although the presence of small cles does cause solle ( lanlping , it is very in amount .
I think there can be little doubt that the excessive dampin in the where the obstacles are aseous , intervening filled with liquid , is due to the augmentacion of the distortion of the latter the variation of pressure acting mainly on the volume of the When no ( bubbles are present in a liquid ) tions , distortion accompanies changes of pressure , but the rate which shear takes place is of the mplitude , and in liquids the velocity of qsion is large , and also the in cases the frequency is that of an audible note .
On the other , if bless of gas are present the variation of pressure acts almost entirely on the volume of the gas , and scarcely at all on relatively incompressible liquid .
Thus , if , be part of the surface of 392 .
A. Mallock .
[ May 26 , a bubble at the mean pressure , which under the variation of pressure its radius from OS to OS ' and OS ' ' , the liquid in the element whose mean position is AB changes from to , and the difference of and is a measure of the distortion caused by the For a criven variation of volume the distortion riation of as the radius of the bubble diminishes .
It must be assumed that is never large to make the pressure or radius of the he much from their mean values .
The nature of the stress to which a non-viscous liquid in a vibrating cylindrical vessel is exposed depends on the ratio of the wave-length in the iquid to the transverse dimensions of the vessel .
If this ratio is the stress in the liquid is one of shear only , the compression and dilation at all points being neutralised by the symmetry of the motions of the vibrating walls .
If , however , the velocity of propagation is so slow that the diameter ot the vessel is a considerable fraction of a wave-length , there will be pressure in the liquid as well as distortion , and it is only variation of which will the ping action of gas bubbles effective in the way supposed .
It may be remarked that the velocity of transmission of a wave in mixed fluid , such as a liquid containing bubbles , is the same as it would be in a homogeneous fluid of the same density and mean e.lasticity .
Thus , and being the mean density and elasticity of the mixture , if the volume , density , and elasticity of the liquid and are respectlvely , and , and if , the velocity of transmission is , and , if is the variation of stress .
Hence , in terms of E2 , Also so that 1910 .
] The of Sd Frothy Liqu ids .
Thus , if the is air , mi-xture This has a minimum when , which makes very nearly unity in the case of a water and air mixture .
The form of the velocity curve is shown in , in which the abscissa ; the value of It will be seen that a very small quantity of liquid , when distributed as in froth , lowers the velocity of transmission enormously , and that the velocity rises to that of sound in .
when the volume of air is about 1/ 800 of the hole .
When is less than 2 , the mixture begins to take the nature of a froth .
The velocity rises actually as the quantity of air diminishes , , of course , ultimately ( and sensibly when ] million ) the velocity of ation in water .
As before mentioned , it is only altel.ations in the volume of the n1ixture which produce excessive dissipation of the of the vibrations , and the haracter of the action may be examined by the dissipation for the case of a spherical bubble of gas surrounded by a sphere of viscous , but The Dampimg of by Liquids .
incompressible fluid , subjected over its outer surface to a harmonic radial displacement of given amplitude .
Let and be the radii of the sphere and enclosed bubble respectively , and let be the amplitude of the vibration at ; also let be the period of vibration and Since the liquid is incompressible , the amplitude at is , and if is the thickness of a spherical shell of mean radius when the liquid is at rest ; and its thickness at time when vibration is going on , , and this quantity differentiated with respect to time is proportional to the rate of shear .
The rate of shear is therefore to \ldquo ; and for a shell of thickness , the speed with which the spherical faces approach or recede one another is ; and the force required ( over the whole shell ) to cause shear at this rate is proportional to The work done ( as far as it depends on viscosity ) in time is proportional to , and substituting , and taking account of the tangential , as well as the radial , ariations in the dimensions of the shell , it will be found* that the dissipation in .
the work done in overcoming the viscous reaction , is dr .
, t.herefore , from to , and to the dissipation hout the whole sphere one complete period is .
The whole of vibration in the liquid and bubble is Hence the ratio of the work dissipated in time to the hole energy in the liquid is 3 , or ( since and ; also , for vity , putting for ) , we Thus the efficiency of the bubbles in damping vibrations increases rapidly , as their diameter and the distance between them ( measured by ) uinish .
The damping viblation is proportional to the period but for a constant time is indepelldent of , the reduction for all periods bein ; in the atio of when .
The increased * See Lamb 's 'Hydrodynamics , ' S Determination ofof effect when the bubbles are small is borne out observation , but it is difficult to make quantitative periments in these cases .
When the proportion of air to water is large the mixture becomes a froth that is a ) of bubbles separated ] thin films of liquid .
The problem of ting the viscous reaction in such a mixtul.e is one I not attempted to solve .
iment , however , that froth is a most efficient agent in This may be shown in a simple and stliking } as follows : prepared a sufficient quantity of fine grained froth in a flat dish soap and water , take a wine lass or tnnlblelhich gives a clear lnusical note when uck .
Dip the month of the glass into the froth ' about a quartel of an inch and withdla it .
A thin .
of froth will be left lound , perhaps , 1 or 2 .
Small as this quantity of froth is be found suflicient to damp the ibration so as to depl i the sound of an .
musical character .
the ) ) of ) ) By ( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O. I. , F.B.S. Received , \mdash ; , 1910 .
As addition to my ) aper , pnblished in the ' on the determination of the of } , I to set the ving remarks the ) of the value of tension it formed water-surface , tances 1 of ) the determination of Prof. P. Lenard has , in a } ) ) telv published : deterrnined of a recently ) wRter-hurface } of tion o falling drops , and has this tension found vahles n hich are greater than those found by other methods .
this , as vell ils the results of experiments blished in former he concludes recently formed -surface very tension , hich , ever ' Phil. Trans , 1909 , vol. 209 , p. 281 .
Sitzun gsber .
Heidelbel.ger Akacl .
lVis .-nat .
Kl . .
1910 , Ann. 188 vol. 30 , p.

