]\gt ; tion oconstant fnown f opposite direction .
When the conductor is symmetrical about the zero ) .
When we apply Maxwell 's artifice , the corresponding timetaotor is , where is the angular velocity of the rotation ; and we easily find that the system of nduced currents of any normal ngletype iixed in space , but is displaced rela ively to the field though zimuth , irection ootationover tipsoid ihich heenI tdistribution ourrentindicated baxwell ' Electricity , ' S 675 ) as glVlng a uniform magnetic field throughout the interior .
For instance , the axes of coordinates being along the principal axes , , we may have , . . . .
and the corresponding persistency is where denoting the specific resistance of the material , and the small constant ratio of the thickness of the shell to the perpendicular on the tangent plane .
There is a difference of electric potential over the shell , , we have , . . . . .
( 4 .
) where being obtained by interchanging and , or and respectively .
This implies a certain distribution of electricity over the outer surface of the shell .
Some special forms of the ellipsoid ( e.g. , a sphere , or an elliptio cylinder ) are considered , and the formula ( 2 ) shown to agree with the results obtainable , in these cases , in other ways .
The problem of induced currents due to simple harmonic variation In the most persistent type of free currents we have and therefore This result is of some interest , as showing that the electrical timeccnstant for a disk of uniform resistance must at all events be considerably less than I find by methods similar to those employed by Lord Rayleigh for the approximate determination of various acoustical constants , that the true value lies between and .
For a disk of oopper , whose radius is a decimetre and thickness a millimetre , the lower gives sec. For disks of other dimensions the result the radius and the thickness oonjointly .
I hope shortly to publish the detoils of investigation on whioh these estimates lnded .
nduced ciscussed , ' attaching to the question , it old be interesting to have a solution uniform dbsence o pninstructive .
As in all our calculations to ellipsoids of revolution , we employ elliptio coordinates ; , seeking the origin at the centre of the disk , and the axis of perpendicuiar to its plane , we write where may range from 1 to , and from zero ( its value at the disk ) to .
The magnetic potential due to the field may be supposed expanded , for the space near ths disk , a series of terms of the form , ( 9 .
) where is the zonal harmonic , and a similar function in which all the terms are , instead of alternately The terms for which are symmetrical about the axis , and produce no currents , but only a certain superficial electrification .
density of this is calculated for the particular case , i.e. , for the case of a disk lotating iu a uniform field about an axis parallel to the lines of force .
The only terms of the expansion ( 9 ) which produce sensible currents in a rotating disk are those tessaral solid harmonics for which is odd .
The iuduced current-function is found to be ( taking , say , sw in ( 9 ) where arc having the value The most important type of induced currents is when ; in which case $ @ee Ferrers , ' Spherical ohap .

