OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Sir John Eric Erichsen , Bart. , Surgeon Extraordinary to the Queen , who died on September 23 , 1896 , will , without doubt , take rank amongst the most distinguished surgeons of the century .
There must be very few of the present generation of practitioners of surgery in English-speaking countries who have not come under his influence , at any rate indirectly ; for his book on the Science and Art of Surgery , which made its first appearance in 1853 , at once took a foremost place as the principal text-book of that subject , a place which in successive editions , to the number of ten , it has maintained ever since .
Nor has it failed to be translated into most European languages , and even , it is said , into Chinese .
Erichsen was descended , on the father 's side , from a Danish family , whose importance is still testified in Copenhagen by the palace which bears the same name .
On his mother 's side he sprang from a Somersetshire stock\#151 ; the Glovetts .
He was born on July 19 , 1818 , in Copenhagen , but was educated in England .
After the termination of his school career , he entered as a student at University College , where Liston was then the chief surgeon , and where also he came under the strong personal influence of William Sharpey , who , as in so many other cases , early discovered the scientific bent in young Erichsen 's character , and was instrumental in directing it into a useful field .
Having , like many other professional men , more leisure in the early period of his career than he ever had in the later , Erichsen devoted himself to the study of physiology , and for a time taught the subject at the Westminster Hospital Medical School .
He acted in 1844 as Secretary to the Section of Physiology of the British Association , and was the working member of a small committee appointed by the Association to undertake an experimental enquiry into the mechanism and effects of asphyxia , and the prevention and treatment of that condition .
His researches on this subject were published in 1815 , and his labours were recognised by his being awarded a gold medal , of the value of 50 guineas , by the Royal Humane Society .
In those days , no education in medicine and surgery was considered complete unless it had been supplemented by residence in Paris , and attendance upon the cliniques of the great French physicians and surgeons .
Accordingly we find Erichsen pursuing his studies in that capital , and , amongst other things , present on the first occasion of the performance of a colotomy , by Amussat .
VOL. lxi .
b Erichsen had not for long leisure to devote to scientific pursuits , for , owing partly to his exceptional ability , partly to extraneous circumstances , his advancement in the profession of surgery was very rapid .
Liston had died suddenly , from aneurism , m 1847 , and his place was filled for a short period by Syme , who soon , however , returned to Edinburgh .
Mr. Richard Quain then became surgeon to the hospital , and with him was associated as Professor of Surgery , Mr. Arnott , at that time senior surgeon to the Middlesex Hospita .
The position of assistant surgeon , which was rendered vacant by Quain 's advancement , was filled by the appointment of Erichsen .
This position he only held for two years , for at the end of that time Arnott resigned his chair and the surgeoncy to University Co leg Hospital , and Erichsen was appointed by the Council of t e o ege to succeed him .
This was in 1850 , and at the early age of thirty-two .
How abundantly the choice of the Council was justified is shown by the brilliant success which attended his teaching .
It is not , too much to say that the reputation of the School of Medicine at Umvei-sity College , as a training place for practical and scientific surgery , is due in no small measure to his influence .
Erichsen held the Professorship of Surgery for sixteen years , and then exchanged it for the Chair of Clinical Snrgery , which he held for another nine years , so that he was for a quarter of a century occupying a leading position in the teaching of surgery in one of the first medical schools in the kingdom .
Apart , therefore from the indirect influence exerted by his writings , the direct influence he exerted in the training of students for the medical profession was considerable .
And it must be recorded of him that , nnlike many a brilliant surgeon of his time , he regarded , and taught his pupils to regard , surgery as a science to be studied rather than simply as an art to be displayed-a line of thought which has been pursued with eonspicnons success by the most eminent of those pupils , the present President of this Society .
Although essentially an all-round surgeon , and one whose opinion in any branch of surgery was regarded , and rightly so , as o more than average weight , there were one or two branches to which Erichsen more esnecially devoted his attention .
Early m h , s career he took up the subject of anenrism-always one of great m erest to him-and contributed several articles dealing with its pathology and treatment .
Later , he turned his attention to the important , and a the time ill-understood , subject of the results of railway mj\#171 ; ies , a subject upon which he was for many years the acknowledged " Erichsen possessed a singularly attractive personality with a courteous and winning manner , which reflected the kindly nature within , and a dignified presence , without a tinge of pomposi y. language , whether in public or private utterance , was always well chosen , his manner of speaking clear and to the point , his material well arranged .
These qualities , although he possessed no particular gift of eloquence , made it always a pleasure to listen to him .
A prominent characteristic of the man was his tact in dealing with difficult situations , and , it may be added , with difficult people .
He was always ready , when appealed to , to afford assistance by advice , or even in a more material way , to his friends and professional brethren who might stand in need of such assistance , and many a young man has bene-fitted by his thoughtful liberality .
Small wmnder that he was highly regarded in the profession of which he was so distinguished an ornament , and by the colleagues and pupils with whom he was so long and so honourably associated .
His eminence in surgery was acknowledged by the Royal College of Surgeons , in 1880 , in electing him to occupy the presidential chair , and at the International Medical Congress , in 1881 .
in his selection to preside over the section of surgery at the meeting in London .
He was also President for three years of the Royal Medical and Cbirurgical Society .
He was a member of the Royal Commission on Vivisection , which sat in 1875 , and was the first Inspector for England and Scotland under the Act which resulted from the sittings of that Commission .
He was elected a Fellow of this Society in 1876 .
He contested the Universities of Edinburgh and St. Andrews , in 1885 , in the Liberal interest , but without success .
He received the honorary degree of LL. D. from the University of Edinburgh , on the occasion of the tercentenary celebration , and was besides the recipient of numerous honours , culminating in the somewhat tardy recognition of his merits by the Government in creating him a baronet , in 1895 .
But the honour which he , perhaps , chiefly prized was that which his Alma Matter did him and herself in electing him , in 1887 , to the important and dignified position of President of the Council of University College , a position which he occupied until his death , to the manifest advantage of both the College and the Hospital , with which his whole career had been so closely interwoven .
Erichsen was married , in 1842 , to Mary Elizabeth , daughter of Captain Thomas Cole , R.N. They had no children .
His wife died in 1893 , and was buried at Hampstead Cemetery , and he was himself laid to rest in the same grave , on September 26 , 1896 .
E. A. S. Samuel James Augustus Salter , or James Salter , as he always called himself , came from a medical , family at Poole , various members of which achieved distinction in medicine or in science .
He was born in 1825 , and received his medical education at Kings College .
How well he spent his pupil days may be gleaned from iv the fact that he graduated as M.B. at the London University , and acted as one of Fergnsson 's house-surgeons .
His uncle Mr. Thomas Bell , the eminent zoologist , was one of the few highly trained dental surgeons of his day , and induced his nephew to join him m partnership , as also in the conduct of the dental department of Guy s Hospital .
The foundations of his fortunes were thus laid , to the detriment , it must be feared , of his work in science .
Immersed as he was in practice he still found time to interest himself m scientific pursuits , and was an active member of several societies , medical and 0t He was also the author of a paper in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' on the " Structure and Growth of the Tooth in Echinus , an in 1863 became a Fellow of the Royal Society .
He had become a Fellow of the Linnean Society in 1853 .
, His work'Dental Pathology and Surgery , 18/ 4 , at once secured him a leading place , but the time expended in its preparation had been so great that it is to be feared that the wort was hardly issued before it was out of date* .
, .
Salter had a good general knowledge of botany , and it is to him that we owe the discovery of a fact the full significance of which is not worked out yet .
This consisted in the discovery of per.ectly formed pollen grains within the tissue of the nucellus of the ovule , as recorded and figured in the 'Transactions of the Linnean Society , ' vol. 24,186f , p. 143 , pi .
24 .
Whether the megasporange was developed or not , we do not know , nor what were the precise cells pnuaued in forming pollen grains in this extraordinary position .
It is to be hoped that some future investigator may be able t0 *aP !
\gt ; 'y information on these points .
That the condition is not confined to passion flowers we know from having seen a like state of affairs in ^ OnTuMng his profession , Salter retired also from London life into the country , where he occupied himself with rural pursuits and horticulture , and amused himself with heraldry and archeology .
Personally , he was most amiable , and so stocked wit gener many of the scientific writers of that day , he so Pthe right side ; yet his as such is still frequently quoted in the texl-books of yY The death of Dr. George Harley , F.R.S. ( on October 27 , 1896 ) , has removed in the midst of active labour a distinguished physician , a true lover of science , a devoted husband and father , and , to the writer of the present biography , an old and valued friend .
The subject of this notice was born at Haddington , on February 12 , 1829 , and came from a race of famed ecclesiastical and literary men .
The Harleys of Haddington played an important part in the old Roman Catholic times , the Rev. Dr. John Harley , of Magdalen College , Oxford , becoming , in 1553 , the first Protestant Bishop of Hereford , and his cousin , the Rev. William Harley , the first legally inducted Protestant clergyman in Scotland ; both were pupils and friends of John Knox .
After this time the Harleys of Haddington took to the law , and for a number of generations were lawyers of considerable local repute .
George Harley 's grandfather , Patrick Harley , born in 1717 , was a lawyer , though better known locally as a poet and antiquarian .
His father , born in 1766 , lived as a country gentleman , at Haddington , but died when George was only three years old , leaving his education to his mother , who was a very talented woman , and her son inherited her abilities and oi iginality .
George Harley was educated at the Haddington Burgh Schools , and at the age of 17 matriculated as a medical student at the University of Edinburgh .
While at Edinburgh Harley had every opportunity of acquiring the rudimentary knowledge of his profession , of which he duly availed himself .
The Edinburgh University was then distinguished as a school of medicine by an unrivalled staff of Professors .
John Goodsir was not only an accomplished human anatomist , but also learned in comparative anatomy , on which he frequently lectured , and the writer of this notice , who attended his lectures , together with George Harley , can testify to Goodsir 's brilliant and fascinating delivery .
Rather narrow-chested , thin , tall , and with intellectual features , Goodsir , speaking in a broad Scotch accent , would hold a large class in breathless interest on the history of the Medusae , a subject on which he delighted to lecture .
Allen Thomson lectured on physiology , in which he excelled .
The microscope was not , however , at that time so intimately connected with the study of physiology as it was destined to become under Hughes Bennett , who succeeded Allen Thomson .
In materia medica Dr. Christison , afterwards Sir Robert Christison , lectured to a large class , captivating students by his extensive knowledge of the subject lie dealt with , and by his flowing and easy delivery .
George Harley 's eldest daughter afterwards married the nephew of Sir Robert Christison .
In the Botanical Gardens , in spring and summer , Balfour would meet his class three or four times a week , and address his students with the impression that everybody ought to be a botanist , and VOL. lxi .
c vi that a love of botany should be innate in every one of his audience .
Alison , brother of the distinguished historian , was Professor of Medicine , a fine , rather stout and imposing gentleman , kindness itself to all the students , and painstaking in hospital work .
It was reserved , however , to Hughes Bennett to introduce into clinical teaching the admirable method of examining patients which came into general use in the infirmary , and found its way by degrees into private practice .
The chair of pathology was held by Dr. Henderson , while Dr. W. Gairdner , of Glasgow , perhaps the last of the survivors of the Edinburgh lecturers towards the end of the forties , held an extra-academical class of pathology , and delivered a set of well prepared and interesting lectures .
In surgery Professor Symes and Professor Miller occupied the highest positions , Symes as an admirable operator , and Miller as an excellent lecturer , while Dr. James Simpson ( afterwards Sir James ) addressed several times a week a crowded audience on midwifery and gyntecology , subjects which particularly attracted George Harley 's attention , as we find him acting as house surgeon to the Maternity Hospital ; and it was through Sir James Simpson that Harley obtained his first appointment in London .
Such were the eminent professors under whose tuition George Harley acquired his earliest professional knowledge .
But this was not all : the society at Edinburgh into which Harley and other students of medicine were admitted with true Scotch hospitality , contributed in no little degree to the development of his social and intellectual powers .
Lord Jeffrey , the distinguished author of " Essays and Reviews , " and other Judges , such as Lord Murray , Lord Ivory , and Lord Fullerton extended a friendly hand to many of the medical students , and asked them to dinner and evening parties .
While at Edinburgh , Harley became acquainted and made friends with many students , who were destined to become distinguished in after-life .
Most of them have now departed from this world , amongst whom I might recall the names of Dr. Charles Muichison , who died at an early age\#151 ; had he lived , he would undoubtedly have ranked amongst the most distinguished physicians of the time and Dr. Spencer Cobbold , F.R.S. , well known for his labours on Entozoa .
George Harley graduated at Edinburgh in 1850 , at the same time as the writer of this notice , and was duly capped before a large audience .
There were that year about 80 students who obtained their doctor 's degree , while at the present time more than twice that number are yearly added to the roll of the Edinburgh graduates .
Before dismissing George Harley 's career as a student , an indication of his promptitude and determination of character may be gathered from the circumstance that while acting as House Surgeon vii to the Royal Maternity Hospital , he successfully performed the Caesarean section on a woman who had just died , and extracted a living child , now grown up to be a father of a family .
The case was read " by Professor Simpson , at the Medico-Chirurgical Society ot Edinburgh , and published in the 'Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science ' for July , 1850 .
After graduating , Dr. George Harley went to Pans , and there be-an his scientific studies .
He entered the laboratory of Messrs. Wurtz and Yerdeil , Rue Garanciere , and for a winter worked there , together with the author of the present notice .
This laboratory had been opened by Professor Ad .
Wurtz , the distinguished chemist .
He had rented a spacious apartment on the ground floor of a house , Rue Garanciere , and at great expense and .
no little trouble , had turned 1 into a chemical laboratory , most complete in its fittings , where he was then joined by two other chemists , Dr. Verdeil , a Swiss gentleman , and Monsieur Charles Dollfus Galline , who was part owner o large dyeing works in Alsace , and had made a special study oi e chemistry of colouring matters .
Wurtz taught chemistry proper , Verdeil chemistry applied to physiology and pathology , an 01 as chemistry in its application to technology .
The building enclosed a spacious courtyard , and on the rude opposite to the laboratory , Charles Robin , who , with Claude Bernard and Majendie , was at the head of physiological science in Prance , opened a laboratory of experimental physiology , where a few Englishmen obtained instruction which in some instances matured into high distinction . .
Georo-e Harley worked under Verdeil , and they soon became friends .
Here he prepared all the constituents of the human body which can be obtained in the crystalline form , such as creatine , creatinine , sarco-lactates , urea , uric acid , hippuric acid , sodium taurocholate and glvcocholate , fatty acids , \amp ; c. ; he analysed biliary and vesical calculi , and indeed went through a complete course of physiological chemistry , but at that time he was mostly interested with the composition of urine . .
, That there was great activity in the Laboratory Rue Garanciere may be gathered from the circumstance that one of the students wishing to prepare creatine on a large scale , purchased an old horse , and walked the poor dilapidated beast into the laboratory , and it was shot then and there .
What little flesh there was on it was cut off as quickly as possible , and submitted to the various opeiations requue for the preparation of creatine ; but little of the substance , however , was obtained .
, , Shortly after the author of this notice had left Paris lie received from Harley a letter , which contained the following passage ( the letter is dated 46 , Rue Vaugirard , Paris , 26th June , 1652 ) : viii " lam still working away atVerdeil 's ; lie is at present making observations on the fats of the blood and fasces while I am working at urine .
I have made a most important discovery , namely : that the colouring matter of the urine is haematin , which appears to have all the properties of that in the blood , and I have clearly shown the presence of iron combined with the colouring matter , and seemingly in the same manner as it is combined in the blood .
I have found this substance in the urine of many pigs , horses , cows , \amp ; c. , and can get it by three or four different processes .
" Harley was in Paris at the time of the provoked by Louis Napoleon .
The writer of this notice sallied forth on the morning of that memorable day with George Harley and E. Risler , a gentleman also at work in the Rue Garanciere , and who subsequently rose to a high position in Prance ; he is now " Directeur de l'lnstitut Agronomique " in Paris .
Paris was in a state of feverish excitement , the Place du Carrousel was so crowded that it was impossible to walk across it , when suddenly a lane opened in the crowd , and Louis Napoleon appeared on horseback , walking leisurely at the head of his staff .
Thus it was that he rode round Paris , and the courage he exhibited won the day for him .
Along the boulevards the cavalry was drawn up apparently from the Madeleine to the Bastille , and there was firing on the people .
After the firing had ceased the party , which had been joined by Verdeil , thought of visiting the Boulevards .
At* the corner of the Rue Vivienne they came across a dead body on the pavement ; a little further on there were two more ; then a poor man who had been killed still grasping with his contracted fingers a coloured handkerchief , containing apparently clothes for the wash .
The cavalry looked ominously threatening , drawn up on the opposite side of the street ; one of them riding up enquired the object of the party on the boulevard , and then enjoined it to leave as soon as possible , as orders had been given to fire on anybody walking about the street .
Of course his injunction was strictly complied with .
Harley 's next paper after the publication of that on the presence of iron in the blood , was entitled " Recherches sir la physiologie du Diabete\#151 ; nouvelle methode pour produire artificiellement le diabete sir les animaux , " ' Count .
Rend .
Soc. Biol. , ' 1853 .
In this year he was elected President of the Parisian Medical Society .
While in Paris Harley worked also under Majendie and Claude Bernard .
Majendie was then giving up work , after having earned a deservedly great reputation , and was succeeded at the College de Prance by Claude Bernard , who delivered an admirable course of lectures on physiology which was attended by many English visitors and by Harley amongst others .
After two years ' residence in Paris , Harley went to Germany , and ix studied at the universities of Wurzburg , Berlin , Vienna , and Heidelberg .
A paper he published in German obtained for him the corresponding membership of the Physico-medical Society of the Wurzburg University .
He returned to London at the end of 1855 , and through the influence of Professor Sharpey , obtained the post of Curator to the Anatomical Museum of University College .
In 1859 he was appointed to the Professorship of Medical Jurisprudence , and not long afterwards joined the Medical Staff of University College Hospital .
George Harley married , in 1861 , Emma Jessie , the youngest daughter of James Muspratt , of Seaforth Hall , Liverpool .
Among his children are Ethel , now Mrs. A. Tweedie , the known writer , and Vaughan Harley who , following in his father s footsteps , is now Professor of Pathological Chemistry at University College .
In 1861 Harley received the triennial prize of the Royal College of Surgeons for an Essay on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Supra-Renal Bodies , and the College also granted him the John Hunter Gold Medal , of which there has only been one awarded since 1858 .
In 1864 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London , and in the year following , a Fellow of the Royal Society , having previously been made a Corresponding Member of the Academy of Science of Bavaria , and of the Academy of Medicine of Madrid .
Harley 's career was nearly cut short in 1864 , while working with a powerfully illuminated small-lens microscope , when a blood-vessel burst in his left eye , ending in retinitis , which was so severe that he was confined to complete darkness for a period of nine months , ending , however , in a pei'fect cure .
He had to wear dark-tinted glasses for a considerable time before he could use his sight freely , and remarked to the writer of this notice , that while wearing " goggles , " as could not see well\gt ; he became accustomed to look at things more carefully than he had done before , and that when subsequently he dropped his glasses , could actually see better than before , as from training he had improved his powers of observation .
Other men under similar circumstances would probably have retired into a quiet private life , but the fact that Harley had sufh\#187 ; cient self-possession to accept a complete privation of light for nine months shows the dogged resolution and perseverance which was , perhaps , the main trait of his character , and carried him through so much good and useful work .
Harley loved to roam over a variety of subjects ; he would ponder over any matter of interest to him and then record his ideas in print .
Claude Bernard 's lectures , which dealt with the physiological VOL. lxi .
^ action of poisons and the functions of the liver , were apparently the origin of Harley 's scientific bent of mind , and we find him early in his career investigating the action of " atropine " in dilating the pupil , of strychnine on the spinal cord , and of the " Calabar bean .
Then he took to the special study of the liver , and in 1883 wrote his elaborate treatise on diseases of the liver , a book which was very favourably received and had a great circulation , being translated into several languages .
He communicated many papers to the Royal Society\#151 ; one of them even as early as 1856-7 , and in 1865 was the author of a paper in the ' Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ' " On the Influence of Physical agents on the Blood , with Special Reference to the Mutual Action of the Blood on the Respiratory Gases .
" He also wrote in the ' Transactions ' of the Microscopical , Zoological , and Anthropological Societies , in the ' Comptes Rendus de l'Academie , ' and was the author of a number of contributions to the medical papers .
It would be too long to give an enumeration of all George Harley 's writings scientific and medical ; he was never at rest ; and when he died he must have felt conscious that he had done his duty and completed his work .
W. M. Augustus Wollaston Franks was the elder son of Captain Frederick Franks , R.N. , and Frederica , daughter of Sir John Sebright Bart. , of Beechwood , Herts .
He was born on March 20 , 1826 , at Geneva , and his second name records the fact that the celebrated Dr. Wollaston , F.R.S. , was one of his godfathers .
At Geneva and at Rome his parents resided during his boyhood , when he became wel versed in French and Italian .
His school education was , however , at Eton , whence in due course he proceeded to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he took his B.A. degree in 1849 , and his M.A. m 1852 .
While still at college he exhibited a strong attachment to mediaeval antiquities , and in 1849 published a volume on ' Ornamental Glazing Quarries , ' many of the illustrations in which were drawn by himself .
He subsequently published a treatise on ' Vitreous Art m the Art Treasures of the Manchester Exhibition .
' It was , however , as one of the editors of Kemble 's ' Horae Ferales , which was published m 1863 , that he established his position as a scientific archaeologist , for it was in that work that he first brought before the world his views on a phase of civilization corresponding in the mam with what on the Continent is known as " the Early Iron Age , " the remains of which are perhaps more characteristically present m the British Isles than in any other part of Europe .
For the term " late-Celtic Period , " by which this stage in human progress is now generally known , we are indebted to Sir Wbllaston Fianks .
He also took a warm interest in prehistoric archaeology , and at xi the time when Lartet and Christy were carrying on their investigations in the early caverns of the Dordogne he materially aided them in their researches , and also afforded valuable assistance in the publication of the ' Reliquicse Aquitaine\#174 ; .
' It was mainly through his friendship with Mr. Henry Christy that the latter resolved to bequeath his fine ethnological collections , together with an endowment fund , to trustees , of whom Mr. Franks was one .
_ Through his exertions , and aided by his own liberality , the Christy collection has attained its present extreme importance , and has been incorporated with the national collections at the British Museum , where the whole have been arranged under the immediate superintendence ot Sir Wollaston Franks . .
His connexion with that Museum extended over a period ot more than forty-six years .
In 1850 an Exhibition of Medieval Art was held at the rooms of the Society of Arts , for which he acted as honorary secretary , and it would seem that the acquaintance that he then showed with all that related to mediaeval antiquity induced Mr. Hawkins , the keeper of the Department of Antiquities at the British Museum , to offer to him the post of an assistant in that Department .
On the 1st of March , 1851 , he received the appointment , and during his long connexion with the Museum witnessed an immense development in its archaeological collections , towards which he in no small decree contributed , and also a subdivision of the old Department of Antiquities into four departments , each charged with some\gt ; specia .
branch of archaeology , of one of which , that of British and Mediaeva Antiquities and Ethnography , he became keeper m 1866 .
To any one looking back to what the collections were at that date , and comparing them with what they are at the present time , the advance in extent value , interest , and importance seems almost incredible .
Muc o this has been due to Mr. Franks ' great personal influence with collectors , several of whom , actuated in no small degree by the conti-deuce they reposed in him , have bequeathed their whole collections to the nation , while others have presented choice and valuable specimens .
Of such liberality , he was himself the most conspicuous example .
During the whole time that he was connected with the Museum it may be said that not a year passed without his presenting to the collections some objects for which the trustees had to return their special thanks , and when from want of funds some desiraole purchase could not be made by the Museum , his private liberality was sure to come to the rescue .
Nor was this liberality check y the grave , for lie lias bequeathed to the Museum collections of rings , jewellery , drinking cups , and other objects , valued at a sum o \#163 ; 50,000 .
, , In connexion with his work at the Museum may be mentioned the ' Medallic Illustrations of the History of Great Britain and xii Ireland/ which was published in two volumes by the trustees in 1885 .
This book , which was based on a catalogue compiled by the late Mr. Edward Hawkins , was completed and in a great measure re-written by Mr. Franks , though the work was in reality outside his own department .
In carrying out his object he was much aided by Mr. H. A. Grueber , and the ' Illustrations ' will long remain the standard authority on the subject of British medals struck before the death of George II .
His connexion with the Society of Antiquaries was almost as long as that with the British Museum , he having been elected a Fellow in 1853 .
He did much to improve its library and its publications , and for upwards of twenty years he was Director of the Society .
His communications , both to its Proceedings and to the Archseologia , were numerous and important .
In 1892 he was elected President , thus becoming an ex officio trustee of the British Museum , and on his retirement from the post of Keeper of British and Mediaeval Antiquities and Ethnography in 1896 he was elected a member of the Standing Committee of Trustees .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1874 , and was an Honorary Member of the Royal Irish Academy and of numerous Foreign Societies .
He also for some years before his death held the post of Antiquary to the Royal Academy .
The University of Oxford conferred upon him the honorary degree of D.C.L. , and that of Cambridge of Litt .
D. , and in 1894 he was promoted by Her Majesty to the rank of K.C.B. Among British archaeologists there was no one who had a wider or more accurate knowledge in nearly every department than Sir Wollaston Franks , and he was ever ready to communicate all that he knew with characteristic liberality .
It is , however , sad to think what an amount of incommunicable knowledge has perished with him .
His kindly nature led to the formation of numerous and enduring friendships , and his death leaves in the hearts of many a void that can never be refilled .
J. E.

