OBITUARY NOTICES FELLOWS DECEASED .
VOL. XCVII.\#151 ; A. cc CONTENTS .
Page William Watson ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..T ... ... ... ... ... ... .
i James Emerson Reynolds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
iii A. G. Vernon Harcourt ( with portrait ) ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
vii Ettrick William Creak ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
xi Charles Edward Groves ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xvii Lt.-Col .
William Watson , C.M.G. , D.Sc .
, A.R.C.S. , Professor of Physics at the Imperial College of Science , London , Director of the Central Laboratory of the British Expeditionary Force in France , from its foundation in 1915 to the end of the war , died in hospital from the results of gas-poisoning on March 3 , 1919 .
Watson was born in 1868 , and educated at King 's College School .
He received his training in the accurate and delicate physical manipulation which distinguished all his work , at the Eoyal College of Science under Sir Arthur Rucker and Prof. C. Y. Boys , and took his B.Sc. degree in 1890 , securing first place on the list of honours in physics .
He obtained an immediate appointment as Demonstrator in the Physics Department of the Royal College of Science , and afterwards succeeded to the Assistant Professorship of Physics in 1897 .
He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1901 , and became in due course one of the Professors of Physics at the Imperial College of Science .
His first scientific work was as assistant in the great magnetic survey of the British Isles under the direction of Profs .
Rucker and Thorpe , 1890-95 , in which he did the lion 's share of the observations , and appears in the record as the most accurate of the assistants .
He also had the advantage of assisting Prof. Boys in his delicate experiments with the radio-micrometer , in timing the periodicity of the electric discharge , and in photographing the flight of bullets .
In the meantime , he was occupied with J. W. Rodger on an elaborate investigation of the magnetic rotation of the plane of polarisation of light in liquids ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1895 ) , which has not yet been surpassed .
He next undertook a research by an original method on the determination of the earth 's magnetic field ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1902 , pp. 431-462 ) , which threw light on some important sources of error in most absolute magnetic measurements .
He continued to take a great interest in terrestrial magnetism , and designed an ingenious and original set of self-recording magnetographs , which have been employed at Kew , Eskdalemuir , and other observatories , and have proved to be most accurate instruments for recording small variations , especially of the vertical force .
While engaged in these researches , and taking a full share of the teaching work , Watson yet succeeded in finding time to write his well-known * Textbook of Physics , ' which has passed through many editions , and was followed later by his ' Intermediate Physics , ' and ' Practical Physics .
' These books have made his name familiar to a large circle of students , and have become deservedly popular in other countries .
He took a large share in the design and equipment of the new laboratory to which the Physics Department of the Royal College of Science was transferred in 1905 , especially in regard to the magnetic laboratory , and to the building designed for motor testing , in which he had become greatly VOL. xcvii.\#151 ; A. ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
interested .
He was one of the first and most indefatigable members of the Expert and Technical Committee of the Royal Automobile Club , and of the Committee of the British Association on gaseous explosions .
In pursuance of this work he designed a modification of the diaphragm type of optical indicator , by introducing a separate mirror for the piston motion , which converted the device into an instrument of accurate scientific research , affording a notable advance on previous methods , especially at high speeds .
With the aid of these intruments , and other specially designed equipment , he was able to investigate the performance of a high-speed motor with a precision previously unattainable , and made many valuable contributions to the scientific development of the petrol motor , which have since found a place in most standard treatises on the subject .
Watson assisted Sir W. de W. Abney for many years in his experiments on colour vision , and made useful contributions of his own to the theory and methods of measurement .
A characteristic example will be found in his paper on luminosity curves ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 88a , p. 404 , 1913 ) .
He was busily engaged on some promising developments of this work at the time when war was declared .
Soon after the ou tbreak of the war , the Physics Department of the Imperial College was asked to assist in solving a great variety of problems presented by new methods of scientific warfare .
This became so acute with the advent of poison-gas in April , 1915 , that Watson was despatched to France to experiment with defensive measures in the trenches .
The first experiments by any of the Allied Armies on a gas-cloud in the field were made under Watson 's direction in May , 1915 .
The Central Laboratory was definitely established , with Watson as director , in June , 1915 , and played a very important part in the practical evolution of protective devices , which finally made the British Army the best protected from gas among all the belligerents .
The defensive measures against poison-gas soon entailed the systematic collection and examination of all kinds of German shell and fuses .
The Germans naturally made this work as difficult and dangerous as they could , and Watson took the keenest delight in the manipulative skill with which he succeeded in circumventing their devices .
In cases of exceptional danger , he always insisted on taking the risk himself .
According to an American eyewitness , he went out on one occasion into " no man 's land to dig up a " dud " shell under fire , when it was urgently necessary to find out what kind of gas the Germans were using .
From the intimate practical knowledge thus acquired at great personal risk , he soon became the leading expert on German ammunition , of which he collected a unique museum for instructional purposes .
Owing to his sound judgment and wide practical experience , his advice was eagerly sought by all branches of the service on all kinds of other scientific problems too numerous to mention .
This work was of great value , but the examination of gas-shell and the testing of protective devices remained the most hazardous and exacting of his duties .
In spite of I James Emerson Reynolds .
iii all reasonable precautions , he was frequently " gassed " with a variety of poisons , under the combined effects of which his health ultimately broke down .
He might have recovered if he had been willing to stay a few more days in hospital under medical advice at a critical juncture .
In the last great gas attack , when the Germans so nearly succeeded in reaching the coveted coast of Calais , who can say that Watson 's utter devotion to duty may not have been one of the straws that turned the scale .
H. L. C. JAMES EMERSON REYNOLDS , 1844-1920 .
James Emerson Reynolds was born at Booterstown , co .
Dublin , on January 8 , 1844 .
He was the son of Dr. James Reynolds , a medical practitioner at Booterstown , a man of some literary ability and the author of one or two plays which had a certain measure of success .
His mother , originally a Miss Campbell , was English .
He was named after his great uncle , a Captain Emerson , of the Royal Navy .
Emerson Reynolds , as he was usually called , was intended for the medical profession , and in early youth became an assistant to his father .
In 1865 he qualified as a licentiate of the Edinburgh College of Physicians and Surgeons , and afterwards practised for a short time in Dublin ; but on his father 's death he definitely abandoned medicine , and following a strong inclination , devoted himself solely to chemistry .
At Booterstown he had fitted up a small laboratory , and tried his hand at research work from the outset .
He was not a student of Trinity College , and never attended a systematic course of instruction either in theoretical or practical chemistry .
In fact , he was wholly self-taught .
His first paper , " On the Oleaginous Matter formed on dissolving different kinds of Iron in Dilute Acids , " appeared in the 'Chemical News ' for 1861 , when its author was , presumably , only 17 years of age .
In the same year , and in the same volume , appeared a second paper , " On a New Process for Photographic Printing .
" These were followed , next year , by a communication to the same journal on the " Oxalates of Iron ; " and in 1863 by no fewer than five contributions , partly to the 4 Chemical News ' and partly to the ' Journal of the Royal Dublin Society .
' Their various subjects\#151 ; " On the Economical Preparation of Sulphocyanide of Ammonium " ( ' Chem. News , ' vol. 8 , p. 14 , 1863 ) ; " On the Numerical Nomenclature of Spectral Lines " { idem , p. 59 ) , " On the Detection of Hyposulphite of Soda " { idem , p.283 ) ; " Wood Spirit and its Detection " Dublin Roy .
Soc , ' vol. 4 , p. 126 , 1863 ) ; " Note on Pure Methylic Alcohol " { idem , p. 131)\#151 ; if of no special merit or great originality , are , at least , remarkable as the work of a self-taught youth , wholly unguided , and with very limited means .
They serve to show the range of his activities , and the iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
assiduity with which he followed the developments of contemporary science .
Spectrum analysis was only in its infancy in 1863 .
Reynolds ' practical interest in the subject was probably quickened by the popular lectures of the late Sir Henry Roscoe and Sir William Huggins to the Royal Dublin Society , and , as subsequent papers show , he maintained this interest to the end of his days .
His early work was carried on under considerable difficulties , and as it was probably regarded as an interruption to his medical studies , it is doubtful if it received much encouragement at home .
It was not until 1867 , when he became keeper of minerals at the National Museum in Dublin , that he had access to a fairly equipped chemical laboratory .
The subject-matter of many of his papers from 1868 onwards\#151 ; e.g. , formation of dendrites , manganese ores , phosphoric acid in minerals , classification of silicates , notes on Irish rutile and the felspars , boron minerals , mineralogical tables , etc. , etc.\#151 ; may be said to have had their origin in this appointment ; and it was probably due to the interest thus created in the chemistry of silicon , which he laboured to show was conceivably co-extensive with that of carbon , that we .
owe his many papers on the silicic acids , silicon haloids , and on silico-organic compounds , which he continued to publish , from time to time , down to his last paper in 1913 .
To this early work belongs his discovery of the colloidal derivative of mercury and acetone ( 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 19 , p. 431 ( 1871 ) ) , which originated from his experiments on wood-spirit .
It was the first colloidal derivative of mercury to be made known .
The neutral solution of the compound ( C3H602 ) .
3HgO , prepared by dialysis , was used with success by the late Sir Charles Ball as an antiseptic dressing in surgery , where no ordinary mercurial solution could be used .
In 1868 he became analyst to the Royal Dublin Society , and two years , later was appointed Professor of Chemistry at the Royal College of Surgeons , Dublin .
He held both these positions until his election , in 1875 , to the Chair of Chemistry at Trinity College , Dublin , as successor to Dr. James Apjohn .
At this period Reynolds had a considerable practice as a consultant and public analyst .
He was interested in subjects relating to .
medical chemisty and hygiene , and had collaborated in the production of a " Manual of Public Health for Ireland .
" He was responsible for the analytical examination of the Yartry water as supplied to Dublin , and had laboured , like many before and since , at the perenuial question of the utilisation of Irish peat .
On his appointment to Trinity College , Reynolds devoted himself , almost exclusively , to the duties of his chair .
He was a good lecturer and an excellent teacher , somewhat precise in manner and diction , and too strict a disciplinarian to be generally popular with the type of student he had to-teach .
But he always commanded the respect of his pupils , who could appreciate the care and thought he spent on his lectures .
They were always admirably illustrated by experiments , for he spared no pains in acquiring or devising suitable and striking demonstrations .
If an experiment failed , i James Emerson Reynolds .
v which rarely happened , he insisted on its successful repetition on the next occasion .
He was scrupulously careful that his teaching should be abreast of contemporary knowledge .
He early perceived the significance and value of the doctrine of Periodicity , and his course of instruction was arranged in conformity with it .
His theoretical conceptions of the basic principle of the Law , afterwards expanded by Sir William Crookes , and his graphic and glyptic representations of it are well known to teachers of chemistry .
He was among the first to attempt to settle the true position of the element glucinum in the periodic series , and to establish its valency and atomic weight .
It is true that the experimental proof he was able to adduce was not wholly convincing , as the metal which he had himself prepared was far from pure , and the foreign matter present introduced a very uncertain correction .
It was only subsequently established that the specific heat of glucinum , as in the case of other elements of low atomic weight , varied very rapidly with the temperature , and that it was only at comparatively high temperatures that the value of its atomic heat approximated to that demanded by Dulong and Petit 's law\#151 ; a fact which accounted for the discrepant conclusions of previous and subsequent workers .
Nevertheless , Reynold 's prevision of the true place of glucinum in the periodic series turned out to be correct , and there is no further doubt on the subject .
Reynolds was one of the first to introduce quantitative work into the early training of the student of chemistry , thereby familiarising him experimentally with the relation between atomic weights , equivalents , valency , etc. His 'Experimental Chemistry for Junior Students/ in which he developed this system , was a distinctly original work , and has had a considerable measure of success in school teaching .
As his own staff was very limited , much of his time during the session was spent in doing demonstrator 's work in the laboratory .
In this way he acquired practical experience of the working of his system , which he incorporated in subsequent editions of his book .
Indeed , he gave so much of his time and energies to his professorial duties that steady uninterrupted research work had to be relegated to the vacations .
Probably the best known of Reynold 's contributions to organic chemistry is his discovery of thiourea .
As already stated , one of his earliest contributions from the little laboratory he had established when a boy in his father 's house at Booterstown was concerned with ammonium sulphocyanide .
On heating this salt to a few degrees above its melting point , dissolving the product in water , and allowing the concentrated solution to stand , he obtained a substance crystallising in silky needles , the true nature of which for a time escaped him , but which he eventually characterised as an isomeride of sulphocyanogen , under which title he communicated a short paper to the ' Journal of the Royal Dublin Society .
' A further account appeared in the 'Journal of the Chemical Society ' for 1869 , and was quickly republished in various continental periodicals .
It is not often that a young man of twenty-three hits upon so remarkable a discovery , and particularly one which had batfled the skill of men like Liebig and Hofmann .
It at once established vi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Reynolds ' position as one of the most promising of the younger Irish chemists , and no doubt contributed greatly to his subsequent professional success .
Thiourea , or thioearbamide , as it was indifferently termed for a time , proved to he an exceedingly reactive substance , and the preparation of its derivatives and congeners , and the elucidation of their constitution , have been pre-eminently associated with the chemical laboratory of Trinity College , Dublin .
Reynolds vacated his chair in Dublin in 1903 , and took up his residence in London .
He continued to pursue his experimental work at the Davy-Faraday laboratory , and ultimately fitted up a small laboratory in his house .
His last published communication " On the Synthesis of a Silicalcyanide and of a Felspar , " appeared in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' in 1913 .
In previous papers he had given descriptions of organic compounds containing the silicocyanogen group , SiN , proving the marked affinity of silicon for tervalent nitrogen .
In his last paper he gave an account of the synthesis of a silicon compound of aluminium and calcium\#151 ; a calcium silicalcyanide , CaSi2Al2 , analogous to CaC2N2 , yielding on oxidation a substance of the composition of anorthite , CaAl2Si208 , with the properties of the naturally occurring mineral .
The keeper of the minerals of 1867 was , up to the last , faithful to the conceptions which had dominated nearly half a century 's intellectual activity .
Reynolds joined the Chemical Society in 1873 , and became a VicePresident in 1881-4 , in 1889-92 , and again in 1897-1900 .
In 1901-1903 he served as President .
In the first of his presidential addresses he discussed , with his characteristic lucidity of exposition , the development of a subject to which he had given much thought , and with which he had been associated since the early eighties , viz. , the Periodic Law .
In the following year he deal t with some pressing questions of inorganic research\#151 ; inorganic isomerism and the so-called inorganic ferments , in which he gave a highly suggestive summary of many problems which have since occupied the attention of many workers , and some of which have proved to be of great technical importance .
He was elected into the Royal Society in 1880 , served on the Council , 1900-1902 , and was a Vice-President in 1901-1902 .
He was an original member of the Society of Chemical Industry , of which he became President in 1891 , presiding over the only Annual Meeting of the Society held in Ireland .
He presided over the chemical section of the British Association at the Nottingham meeting in 1893 .
In 1875 he married Janet Elizabeth , the daughter of Prebendary Finlayson , of Christchurch Cathedral , Dublin , who survives him .
During his later years his eyesight , never very good , gradually failed , but his mental power was active to the last .
He had a serious accident in the autumn of 1919 , fracturing a rib ; this was followed by a slight stroke , from which he never wholly recovered .
He died very suddenly on February 17 , 1920 , at his residence in Kensington .
T. E. T. Q If Vll A. G. VERNON HARCOURT , 1834-1919 .
By the death of A. G. Vernon Harcourt in his eighty-fifth year , there passed away a chemical teacher endeared to many generations of Oxford students , a singularly skilful experimenter , and a pioneer in the new domain of physical chemistry .
He was one of the first who planned experiments to follow the course of a chemical change , to measure the velocity of a reaction , and to study the conditions that determine it ; he rebelled against the idea that chemists had to concern themselves only with the preparation of new substances and the elucidation of their properties\#151 ; for him the interesting thing was how the change happened , not what was the result .
Augustus George Vernon Harcourt was the elder son of Admiral E. E. Vernon Harcourt and of Marcia , sister of the first Lord Tollemache , and grandson of the Archbishop of York .
He was born December 24 , 1834 , and died August 23 , 1919 .
He was educated on the old classical lines at Cheam and at Harrow , and entered Balliol College , Oxford , in 1854 .
It was at Balliol , under Henry Smith , that he laid the foundation of his chemical career .
Harcourt , in his reminiscences of the Oxford Museum and its Founders , has told us how , when Salvin 's buildings at Balliol were constructed early in the " fifties , " two cellars were appropriated to the study of chemistry ; and to provide a teacher , Henry Smith , ablest of Oxford men , was deputed by the College to take some lessons in the subject .
He went for a few months to Dr. Hofmann at the College of Chemistry .
Montgomerie , Hertford Scholar in 1854 , and Harcourt were his first pupils .
The classical atmosphere of the College cellar is brought out in one of Harcourt 's reminiscences : " Once a stick of phosphorus took fire on the bench ; Montgomerie was for pouring water over it , which might have caused a dangerous scattering of the fiercely burning liquid ; Henry Smith stopped him , and extinguished the blaze by pouring over it a little sand , remarking in his soft tones\#151 ; ' Pulveris exigui jactu compressa qwiescet .
' When Brodie , a pupil of Bunsen , came to Oxford as Professor of Chemistry , the Balliol cellars were placed at his disposal , and Harcourt became first his pupil and then his assistant .
At Balliol , Brodie began working on the peroxides of the acid radicals , and afterwards on the oxidation of graphite , and then turned to the systematic study of the alkaline peroxides , whose reducing action he was the first to explain\#151 ; incidentally supplying a strong chemical argument in favour of the diatomic nature of oxygen gas .
In 1858 , Brodie migrated to the chemical department of the New Museum , and took Harcourt\#151 ; still an undergraduate\#151 ; with him as lecture assistant .
A year later , after gaining a First Class in the School of Natural Science , Harcourt was appointed Demonstrator in the Students ' laboratory , known from its prototype as the " Glastonbury Kitchen " \#151 ; and among his first pupils was the Prince of Wales , afterwards King Edward VII .
vol. xcvii.\#151 ; A. c viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Under Brodie , at the New Museum , Harcourt began his researches with the exact determination of the oxygen absorbed by the metals potassium and sodium\#151 ; allowing air to enter slowly into a flask containing the pure liquid metal heated in an atmosphere of nitrogen .
In this first paper one can see that it is the initiation and progress of the oxidation that interest him .
" Soon after the dry air has begun to mix with the nitrogen , the grey film which covers the molten metal changes to a deep blue ; the surface gradually becomes roughened by little wrinkles and projections , and a moment arrives when a single spluttering spark appears at one point and a dust of white oxide rises ... At the point where the spark appears the blue crust becomes white , and this change passes in a moment over its whole extent .
" In 1859 Harcourt was elected Lee 's reader in chemistry and a senior student of Christ Church , but it was not until some years after his appointment that he began his work in the Lee 's Laboratory .
Meanwhile he had started those researches on the rate of chemical change which\#151 ; in conjunction with those of Berthelot in France and those of Guldberg in Norway\#151 ; were to establish on a quantitative basis Berthollet 's law of mass action .
In the interpretation of his results Harcourt was associated with William Esson , whose special mission in Oxford seemed to be\#151 ; as the writer knew him\#151 ; to illuminate mathematically the obscure records of chemical velocities .
Harcourt and Esson first studied the reaction between oxalic acid and potassium permanganate in acid solution .
They found that the rate of change varied with the amount of manganous sulphate formed , and that the reaction was probably nil in the complete absence of manganous salt ; but , once started , the velocity would increase to a maximum and then fall off\#151 ; the curve representing the course of the change having a point of contrary flexure .
They liken their curves to those obtained by Bunsen and Roscoe in the course of photo-chemical induction\#151 ; thus suggesting that the " inductive period " in the union of hydrogen and chlorine was due to the action of another substance , a suggestion which finally was proved to be correct .
Seeking for a less complicated reaction , Harcourt found that in dilute solutions hydrogen peroxide decomposed hydrogen iodide with velocities that could be easily followed , and the amount of change could be accurately ascertained .
The method of carrying out the experiment in a stream of carbon dioxide , and the device by which the iodine liberated was reconverted into iodide by the successive additions of exactly equal drops of concentrated thiosulphate , show Harcourt at his best as an experimenter .
The time-intervals between the successive appearances of the iodine proved that the velocity of the change varied directly with the quantities of each of the reacting substances\#151 ; when the other conditions were kept constant .
The rates found , however , do not prove that the change is necessarily a tri-molecular one as Harcourt supposed :\#151 ; H202 + 2HI = 2H20 + I2 .
i A. G. Vernon Harcourt .
IX The change most probably takes place in two stages , each of which is di-molecular ; but , one stage being much faster than the other , the observed rates follow the simple law .
In studying the effect of temperature on the rate of this reaction Harcourt and Esson arrived at a zero of chemical action in wonderful agreement with the absolute zero calculated from physical data .
Harcourt was so strongly convinced that chemical change followed mechanical laws that his laboratory became a centre where the experiments of Bunsen and his school on " chemical induction " and " sprungweise " explosions were repeated and criticised .
Though one of the pioneers of physical chemistry Harcourt remained a sceptic towards the new theories of solution and ionisation , and the word " dissociation " was anathema to him .
In his last address as President of the Chemical Society in 1897 he maintained that the distinction between dissociation and decomposition was absurd .
" A journey " he declared " is the same journey , whether I go with a return ticket , or whether I cannot return by the same route .
" Of the painstaking character of Harcourt 's demonstrations , of his insistence on neatness and cleanliness , of the patience and personal trouble he took with each beginner , generations of old Christ Church men can speak with grateful appreciation .
The minutiae of manipulation appealed to him , but they were only means to attack the largest problems ; for him no defect was too small1 to remedy , no authority was too great to question .
Through the inspiration of his example and teaching Oxford , no less than English chemistry , has been intellectually quickened .
In applied chemistry Harcourt was chiefly drawn to questions dealing with the purification and testing of coal-gas , he having been appointed in 1872 one of the three Metropolitan Gas Referees whose duty it is to prescribe the mode of testing the London gas and , subject to the various Acts of Parliament , to fix the limits of impurity allowed .
One of his early researches on coal-gas was his attempt to purify the gas from sulphur compounds by means which he devised for converting the carbon disulphide into hydrogen sulphide .
Harcourt 's " sulphur test " came into wide use , but its application on a large scale for the purification of coal-gas has only recently been carried out successfully by Dr. Charles Carpenter at the South Metropolitan Gas Works .
Perhaps the most signal improvement in the testing of gas effected by Harcourt was the introduction of the Pentane Lamp as the official standard of light in place of the variable spermaceti candle .
His original one-candle lamp has been replaced by the more convenient 10-candle Pentane lamp , and this has been largely adopted as the measure of illuminating power not only for gas but for other illuminants .
Another very useful investigation which occupied much of his time between 1899 and 1911 was concerned with the administration of chloroform as an anaesthetic .
Already in the former year he had devised a ready means for determining the percentage of chloroform vapour , mixed with air , by converting the chloroform into carbon dioxide and hydrogen chloride in x Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
contact with a red-hot platinum wire in presence of steam and of water to absorb the hydrogen chloride:\#151 ; 2 CHCI3 .+ .
2 H20 + 02 = 2COa + 6HCl .
When the Council of the British Medical Association in 1901 appointed an expert committee to investigate the methods in use for administering chloroform , to study its quantitative determination , and " to determine if possible what is the minimum dose which would secure anaesthesia for operations and at the same time not endanger life , " they gave their committee power to co-opt two outside members\#151 ; of whom Harcourt was their first choice .
After much patient labour he devised an " Inhaler " which his colleagues described as " possessing the advantages of simplicity , exactness and portability .
" The Committee adopted it in their experiments , and in their final Report state that it appears to be well adapted for universal employment .
Of recognition by learned societies and of devoted service rendered to them Harcourt could claim a large share .
Elected to the Royal Society in 1863 , he served on the Council 1878\#151 ; 80 .
In conjunction with Esson , he published four memoirs in the ' Philosophical Transactions , ' in the third of which , the Bakerian Lecture for 1895 , the observations are given indicating that all chemical action would cease at \#151 ; 272-6 ' C. Admitted to the Chemical Society in 1859 , he served as one of its Secretaries for eight years 1865\#151 ; 73 , and was elected President in 1895 .
In 1910 he was one of the five Past-Presidents whose jubilee as Fellows was celebrated by the Society .
As became the nephew of one of the founders of the British Association \#151 ; Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt\#151 ; he early took an interest in its meetings and made many contributions to the Chemical Section , of which he was President in 1875 .
A few years later he was elected one of the General Secretaries of the Association , an office he held for fourteen years with conspicuous tact .
He was an honorary Doctor of Oxford , McGill , and Durham Universities .
In 1872 Harcourt married Rachel Mary , daughter of Mr. H. A. Bruce , at that time Home Secretary in Mr. Gladstone 's first administration and afterwards Lord Aberdare .
Of his happy family life at Cowley Grange , the home he built for himself on the banks of the Cherwell , many of his old Oxford pupils and friends can tell ; and perhaps no more picturesque spot could have been chosen for the evening of his days than St. Clare , near Ride , the property he inherited , with its fine cedars and beautiful lawns , falling from terrace to terrace down to the waters of Spithead .
Even in the sunny Isle of Wight people spoke of the roses of St. Clare\#151 ; that pleasantest corner of the world of which he would quote when bidding one to an Easter or an autumn visit : " Ver ubi longwn tepidasque praebet Juppitcr brumas .
" Both at Oxford and St. Clare , Harcourt displayed extraordinary activity in ) Ettrick William Creak .
xi games .
Without being an athlete , he was naturally fond of all sports and outdoor exercises , and , once interested in a game , he took infinite trouble to improve .
Many of his pupils found , to their surprise , that their white-haired tutor could give them lessons in other things besides chemistry .
His knowledge of the classics , especially of poetry , and a memory which remained excellent till quite late in life , made him apt at quotation and ready in rejoinder .
He was a really good critic of style .
Singularly lucid as a writer , he set his pupils an example of precision and clearness , which some , it must be admitted sorrowfully , could not reach , though they tried to follow it .
His life was a full and happy one ; he followed the path he had chosen , with never a thought for profit or self-advancement .
If he had an ambition , it was the desire to serve others , and to feel that he was loved by his friends .
Few men have been so completely happy in their work , or lived so much in the lives of their students .
The writer , whose good fortune it was to fall und\amp ; r his influence at Oxford , gratefully acknowledges that he owes his career to Harcourt 's affectionate interest and to his example .
H. B. D. ETTRICK WILLIAM CREAK , 1835-1920 .
Captain Ettrick William Creak was born on the 28th May , 1835 , and died in his sleep in his eighty-fifth year on the 3rd April , 1920 .
He was the son of the late Commander William Creak , Royal Navy , of Norfolk , and a nephew of Sir H. Havelock , of Lucknow fame .
Following his father 's profession , he joined the navigating branch of the Navy about the year 1849 , and was appointed to a ship on the Australian station , where he was a messmate of the late Admiral of the Fleet , Sir Frederick Richards .
His service afloat as navigating lieutenant was distinguished by his nautical acquirements , and the remarks he sent from time to time to the hydrographer , for which he was specially thanked in 1866 .
His knowledge of French and music were accomplishments more rare in those days than in these . .
During his service on board H.M.S. " Esk " from 1863-1867 he added to our knowledge of various unsurveyed localities on the Australian station , amongst which a plan of Ngaloa Bay , in the Fiji Islands , may be particularly mentioned .
The great range of magnetic latitude traversed by H.M.S. " Esk " turned Lieutenant Creak 's attention at this time to an investigation of the errors of the compass arising from this cause , which enquiry was embodied in a report to the Admiralty and published by the Board of Trade .
Later , an elaborate xii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
discussion by him of the same subject appeared in the ' Philosophical Transactions of the Eoyal Society , ' 1883 , part 2 .
* This was the beginning of Creak 's researches in the science of magnetism , and marked him out as a suitable officer to be employed in the investigation of compass errors in H.M. ships , which were being increasingly constructed of iron and steel .
He was accordingly selected , in 1868 , to serve as assistant in the Compass Department of the Admiralty .
In connection with the famous " Challenger " Expedition , 1872-76 , Lieutenant Creak took an active part in the determination and control of the constants required for the reduction of the magnetic observations that were to be made during the voyage .
The results of the " Challenger " observations are published in vol. 11 of the official narrative of the voyage , and in vol. 11 of the report on the physics and chemistry of the expedition , where plans , constructed by Creak , are given of the magnetism observed at the Bermuda Islands , 'and also charts of the variation , inclination , horizontal force , and vertical force for the epoch 1880 , constructed mainly from the " Challenger " observations , combined with all other observations available to the date of publication .
The instruction of officers engaged in the Arctic Expedition of 1875-76 under Captain G. S. Hares , K.N. , was entrusted to Commander Creak .
He also prepared the directions and magnetic charts for the 'Arctic Manual , ' 1875 .
Many years later , Captain Creak drew up the magnetic instructions for the Antarctic Expedition of 1901 , besides settling the details in connection with the fitting of the magnetic observatory on board the " Discovery .
" The appointment of Superintendent of the Compass Branch of the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty falling vacant in 1887 , Staff-Commander Creak was selected for it .
The Admiralty compass of that period was excellent in some respects , but complaints were received of its excessive vibration , amounting to almost a revolution when in heavy weather the rolling of the ship synchronised with the swing of the card .
Having a heavy and comparatively small card with long needles , it did not lend itself to the correction of quadrantal and healing errors , with the result that , in the types of ships then building , uncorrected errors were necessarily large and liable to great changes , consequent on change of geographical position with varying magnetic elements .
The inconvenience inherent in such a form of compass was very irksome , besides being a source of danger .
Sir William Thomson ( Lord Kelvin ) had already introduced his well-known compass , fulfilling all the requirements that a compass should , except the one essential to ships of war , viz. , ability to withstand the shock of heavy gun fire in large ships , and the effects of vibration and rapid motion in small vessels , such as torpedo-boats and destroyers .
The new compass was extensively fitted in ships of the Mercantile Marine , for which it was admirably designed , and a strong desire was manifested by naval officers to be supplied with it .
I Ettrick William Creak .
Xlll The defects of the Admiralty compass were fully realised by Captain Creak , and the advantages of the new compass were not less appreciated by him , but he also recognised the fact that a compass that would fail in battle was not one that should be fitted on board H.M. ships if it were possible to devise a compass free from that fatal defect , and at the same time be equally good as Sir William Thomson 's compass in other respects .
With this object in view , Creak set himself to develop the existing liquid compass , feeling confident that in the principles of that compass lay the solution of the problem .
The existing liquid compasses , which had up to that time been looked upon only as subsidiary types for use in rough weather and during gun firing , were , owing to defects in the general principles of construction , far from being reliable instruments under ordinary seagoing conditions .
The cards were floatless , with large moments of inertia and the weight resting upon the pivot was excessive , necessitating powerful needles with large magnetic moments in order to overcome the sluggishness resulting from the inertia , skin friction of the liquid , and the friction between the cap and pivot .
He introduced cards mounted on a float , with two thin and relatively short needles , fitted with their poles at the scientifically correct angular distances , and with the centre of gravity , centre of buoyancy and the point of suspension in correct relation to each other .
The flotation and the total weight were so adjusted to one another as to reduce the weight resting on the pivot to a reasonable amount , being considerably less than the Thomson dry cards , and at the same time sufficient to prevent the card from " pumping " when subjected to vertical shocks or vibration .
He was thus able to use iridium pointed pivots instead of the relatively blunt ruby pointed pivots which had hitherto been necessary owing to the excessive weight which they had to carry .
An improved form of azimuth circle was at the same time introduced .
The compass thus designed rectified the defects of the Admiralty Standard compass , referred to above , with the additional advantage of considerable steadiness under heavy gun-fire and in a seaway , but Creak had to patiently face great and ignorant obstruction\#151 ; official and other\#151 ; before he succeeded in getting this compass installed .
Certain modifications have been introduced at various dates , but the main features of practically all these improvements still obtain in liquid compasses at the present time .
Meanwhile , the demand in the Naval Service for Lord Kelvin 's compass was growing strongly , and in 1892 the Board of Admiralty decided that the change should be made without waiting longer for the further developments that Captain Creak hoped to be able to effect .
The liquid compass in the stage it had then reached fulfilled all essential conditions , and particularly steadiness under gun-fire and in a heavy seaway ; but it had to be admitted that for manoeuvring purposes it was inferior to Lord Kelvin 's compass , owing to comparative sluggishness on a large alteration of course through the drag on the card by the liquid in which it floated .
xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Superintendent of Compasses was strongly supported by the Hydrographer in his view as to the possibilities of the liquid compass , and time and opportunity were pressed for to remove its one admitted defect before taking the momentous step of changing the compass equipment for the whole Navy .
Unfortunately , the Hydrographer was unable to impress his views on the Board , and the change was made .
The Kelvin compass was at that time by no means such a perfect instrument , within its limitations , as it became later on , and when its adoption by the Admiralty was decided upon , Captain Creak dropped further development of the liquid compass , and devoted himself whole-heartedly to the improvement of the Kelvin .
As subsequent events proved , the decision taken by the Admiralty was unfortunate , because it not only took away from the Compass Department the incentive to further effort , but also lost the advantage of securing the co-operation of navigating officers afloat in seeking a remedy for its single defect , all attention and interest being now concentrated on the Kelvin compass .
The liquid compass was , however , retained for use on board small craft , for which the other was manifestly altogether unsuitable .
Sixteen -years later Creak 's views were justified .
As .the size of guns increased and the development of modern battle practice progressed , the need of an efficient-compass in such conditions could no longer be ignored , and the Kelvin compass was found to be quite unsuitable for naval purposes in war .
The neglected merits of the liquid compass gradually became recognised , and numerous requests for auxiliary liquid compasses were received at the Admiralty .
Early in this century , Mr. D. Buckney , of Messrs. E. Dent and Co. , when designing a liquid compass for the use of submarines , conceived the idea of slightly diminishing the diameter of the card , associated with a projecting lubber point .
During the trials , the effect of this slight modification was found to be equally unexpected as it was extraordinary .
It was apparent that the drag on the card system was thereby reduced to a minimum , and its defect as a manoeuvring compass was practically cured .
Further improvements rapidly followed , the result being patented under the name of the " Chetwynd " compass , and in 1908 the triumph of the liquid compass was complete , and it was introduced generally throughout the Navy .
The foundation of this great success was laid by Captain Creak , and credit for the years of experiment and research that he spent on developing the principle of the liquid compass must be his , no less than the tenacity with which he held to his opinions , based as they were on a correct appreciation of the requirements of the Navy as distinct from those of the Mercantile Marine .
The merit of hitting on the remedy that had baffled him belongs , however , to another , and no one rejoiced more heartily at his success than Captain Creak .
A simple form of instrument for the correction of the heeling error by magnets was devised by Captain Creak , and he also invented the Lloyd-Creak dip and intensity apparatus , originally meant for observations afloat , i Ettrick William Creak .
xv but which has been found very useful also on shore .
The heeling error instrument haa other applications besides that for which it was originally designed , and is extremely useful for the determination of vertical force both afloat and ashore .
The Lloyd-Creak instrument was fully described in ' Terrestrial Magnetism ' for October , 1901 .
For his various contributions to the science of magnetism , Captain Creak was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society in 1885 , and served on the Council from 1898 to 1900 .
From time to time , papers were read by him at the Eoyal Society on subjects connected with magnetism on board H.M. ships and the discussion of the results of magnetic observations , made in the course of voyages by H.M. surveying vessels and expeditions such as those of the " Challenger " and the Arctic Expedition , 1875-76 , which papers appeared in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' and the ' Proceedings9 of the Eoyal Society .
Of Captain Creak 's other writings , he assisted the late Sir F. Evans and Mr. Archibald Smith in preparing and publishing the " Elementary Manual for the Deviation of the Compass in Iron Ships " in 1870 , and , after the death of Sir F. Evans , later editions of that manual were entirely prepared and published by Captain Creak .
In the ninth edition , prepared by him in 1895 , the question of heeling error and its correction were specially discussed , and tables were given to assist in the correction of quadrantal deviation and the application of the Flinders ' bar .
He also assisted in writing the article on " Terrestrial Magnetism " in the 4 Admiralty Manual of Scientific Inquiry , ' and was the author of the article in the 'Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' 10th edition , on " Compasses .
" Other of his works published included " The Mariners ' Compass in Ships of War , " " Compass Correction in Iron Ships , " and discussion of the subject from the time of Flinders ( early Nineteenth Century ) and containing a comparison of the Thomson and Peichl methods .
It was pointed out by Captain Creak that at certain positions in the world magnetic areas exist which affect the compasses of vessels sailing over those areas , and he deduced a law which appears to hold good governing the deflection of the needle in relation to the magnetic axis of the disturbed area in the two hemispheres .
One striking instance of large deflection occurs in an area near Cossack , in North Australia , which on being crossed by H.M. Surveying Vessel " Meda 99 in a depth of 8 fathoms , with two shore objects in transit , deflected the compass needle 30 ' for about one mile .
The magnetic conditions over this area were carefully observed by Commander ( later Vice-Admiral ) W. U. Moore , in H.M.S. " Penguin , " and they were discussed by Captain Creak in a paper read at the Eoyal Society .
At Funafuti , a coral atoll in the Pacific , in lat. 8 ' 30 ' S. , long .
179 ' 12 ' E. , another magnetic field exists where the variation differs nearly 2 ' and the dip 1 ' in different localities , as shown by the magnetic survey of the atoll made by Captain ( now Admiral ) Sir A. M. Field , K.C.B. , in H.M.S. " Penguin " xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
in 1896 , the results being investigated by Captain Creak and published by the Eoyal Society in 1904 .
When , owing to his having reached the age of 55 , he had to retire from the active list of the Navy in 1891 , not having served the number of years to entitle him to be retired with the rank of Captain , a Special Order in Council was issued giving him that rank , so that his important services in the Compass Department should not deprive him of the honour he would have received had he served the requisite number of years at sea .
He was made a C.B. in 1901 , in which year he was retired from the Compass Department , at the age of 66 .
In 1903 , he was President of the Geographical Section of the British Association , and in his Presidential Address at Southport in that year gave an interesting account of the progress of our knowledge of Magnetism , both afloat and ashore up to that time .
This was published in the Eeport of the British Association , and also in the * Geographical Journal , ' vol. 22 , 1903 .
Captain Creak married in 1867 Grace Mary , daughter of W. B. Bradie , Esq. , who pre-deceased him , and he leaves two sons and one daughter .
He was the most modest and unselfish of men , a staunch friend , broad-minded , and full of charity to all .
For many years he was a member of the Council of the Eoyal Naval Benevolent Society , in which he took an active part up to the time of his death .
His whole heart and soul was in the service and his Department , with not a thought of reward or benefit to himself .
High-minded and straightforward and true to the core , he died regretted by all who knew him .
A. M. F. XVII CHARLES EDWARD GROVES .
1841-1920 .
Though during the last twenty years of his life the figure of C. E. Groves was less familiar than formerly in scientific circles , no one was better known and esteemed during the long period in which he held office as Editor of the * Journal of the Chemical Society/ Groves was born at Highgate on March 4 , 1841 , but while still a young child his parents removed to Kennington , and in that neighbourhood he remained until the end of his life .
He was educated at Brixton College School , and subsequently entered the Royal College of Chemistry under Hofmann , the first professor .
In October , 1862 , he became chief private assistant to Dr. John Stenhouse , F.R.S. , who had a laboratory for research in Rodney Street , Pentonville .
This was an almost unique establishment .
Stenhouse had been for some years lecturer on chemistry at St. Bartholomew 's Medical School , but about the year 1856 he had been disabled by a paralytic stroke , from which he partly , but never wholly , recovered .
His interest in chemical investigation prompted him , notwithstanding his crippled condition , to resume his researches into the nature of the crystalline constituents of lichens and other vegetable materials , and he found premises to suit his purpose in an old house to which was attached the outbuildings of an abandoned artificial flower factory .
Here , early in 1860 , he established himself with E. J. Mills ( afterwards professor in Glasgow ) as his scientific assistant .
Mills was succeeded in Stenhouse 's laboratory by C. E. Groves , together with W. A. Tilden as junior .
When the latter left , for a post at the Pharmaceutical Society , he was succeeded by R. Meldola ( afterwards President of the Chemical Society ) and T. Bolas .
The little laboratory was always busy , and Groves remained in command until the death of Stenhouse in 1880 .
During the later years of this association the papers resulting from the work done were published in the joint names of Stenhouse and Groves , and related almost entirely to products from the lichens and their derivatives .
Both were men of earnest religious convictions , and the " Doctor , " who could only sit and watch operations , was much disposed to talk during work , which was not unfrequently interrupted by controversy on subjects connected with their respective religious views , Stenhouse being a Presbyterian and great admirer of the famous preacher , Charles Spurgeon , while Groves , as a high churchman , stood up for the episcopal establishment .
The most notable piece of work done by Groves independently was the discovery of the action of zinc chloride in the production of ethyl chloride and its homologues ( ' Chem. Soc. Journ./ vol. 12 , pp. 636-641 ( 1874 ) ) .
In 1865 Stenhouse succeeded Hofmann as one of the external Assayers to the Royal Mint , and held the office until it was abolished by Mr. Robert xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Lowe in 1870 .
Stenhouse , of course , was incapable of any sort of manipulation , and the work was done by Groves with the aid of a technical assistant .
In 1877 , when the Institute of Chemistry was founded , Groves took an active part in the movement and was appointed Secretary ; from 1887 to 1892 he was also Registrar .
He was connected with the 'Journal of the Chemical Society ' from 1878 , first as Sub-Editor , and in 1884 as Editor , in succession to Mr. Henry Watts .
This office he resigned in 1899 .
Groves was a good manipulator and skilful analyst .
His familiarity with several languages and his extensive knowledge of physical and chemical science were valuable qualifications for the post of Editor , though he may perhaps be remembered for certain peculiarities of phraseology in English on which he insisted and which sometimes brought him into conflict with less scrupulous writers .
Soon after Dr. Stenhouse 's death in 1880 Groves was appointed Lecturer on Chemistry and Dental Metallurgy in the Medical School at Guy 's Hospital , retiring in 1901 .
Eor more than twenty years he was also consulting chemist to the Thames Conservancy Board , and gave up this work in 1909 .
Eor only a few years later he was able to sustain his interest in scientific work , but failing health compelled him to retire from active life or study , and he died at his house on Kennington Green , February 1 , 1920 .
Groves became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1883 .
In early life he was a good walker , and though in frame very spare , he was both muscular and active .
Though not addicted to games , he found his recreation in mountaineering , and for many years his summer vacations were spent in Switzerland .
He will be remembered by many among the older members of the Alpine Club .
W. A. T. i

