Of some Books lately publish't .
RELATIONS OF DIVERS CURIOUS VOTAGES , by Mons. Thevenot ; the third Tome , in French .
This Book contains chiefly , the Embassy of the Dutch into China , translated out of the Dutch manuscript : A Geographical description of China , translated out of a Chinese Author by Martinius : And the Account , which the Directors of the Dutch East-India Company made to the States General , touching the state of affairs in the East-Indies , when their late Fleet parted from thence .
To touch some things of a Geographical and Philosophical nature , contained therein , we shall take notice ; 1 .
How the Kingdom of China is peopled ; there being according to the best computation ( which is there made with singular care ) above 58 millions of Men , not counting Magistrates , Soldiers ; Priests , Eunuchs , Women and Children ; so that it may not be altogether strange , if one should affirm , there were 200 millions of people , of all sorts , in that Kingdom .
2 .
That Catay is nothing else , but the Six Northern Provinces of China , separated from the other Nine , by the great River KIAN G ; and that the City Cambalu is the same with that of Peking : the Tartars , who carry every three years their Tribute to the Emperor of China , constantly calling the said Provinces and City by those names of Catay , and Cambalu .
3 .
That China is so well furnished with Rivers , and cut Channels , that men may go from the most Southern to the most Northern part thereof by water , except one days journey ; as the Dutch Ambassadors did , embarking at Canton , which is 23 d. 48 m. Northern Latitude , and landing at Peking , which is about 40 d ; having only travelled one days journey over some Mountains of the Province Kiamsi .
4 .
That the people of China are exceeding industrious Husband .
bandmen , making , among other ways of improving their soil , great use of Flouding .
5 .
That the Physicians of China do cure Sicknesses with much ease , and in a short time : That they have very ancient Books of the nature and virtues of Herbs , Trees and Stones : That their Modern Physicians ( as well as their Ancient ones did ) write of the Prognosticks , Causes , Effects , &amp;c. of Diseases .
That their Remedies consist for the most part of Simples and Decoctions , Cauteries , Frictions ; without the use of Bloud-letting : That they have such an excellent skill and method in feeling the Pulse , that by the means thereof they discover even the most latent causes of Diseases ; taking a good halfhour , when they visit a Patient , in feeling and examining his Pulse : That they prescribe much the use of The ; and the drinking always warm , whatever they drink : To the custom of both which it 's imputed , that the inhabitants of China do spit very little , nor are subject to the Stone or Gout : That they prise highly the Root Ginseng , as an extraordinary Restorative and Cordial , recovering frequently with it agonizing persons ; one pound of it being paid with 3 pounds of silver .
As for their Chymists , ( of which they have also good store ) they go beyond ours , promising not only to make Gold , but to give Immortality .
6 .
That their Nobility is raised from Learning and Knowledge , without regard to Blood or Parentage , excepting the Royal Family .
7 .
That in CHEKIAN , a maritime Province , whence is the shortest cut of China to Japan , is the best and plentifullest Silktrade in the world : And that there every year the Mulberries are cut , and kept down , that they grow not into Trees , for the easier gathering of the Leaves , there being a double Silk-harvest in that Country , as there is in several other parts of the East-indies ; ( both which there is hope , will shortly be imitated in Virginia .
) 8 .
That the way of making Porcelane is this : ( Which is the rather inserted here , because it agrees so well with an Account , we received a while since from a very Curious and intelligent Person of Amsterdam .
) There is in the Province of Nankin a Town , called Goesisol ; whence they draw the Earth for Porcelaine , which is found between the Rocks of Mountains .
This Earth they beat very small , and stamp it to a very fine Powder , and then put it into Tubs filled with water ; where the finest part sinks to the bottom .
Afterwards it is kneaded in the form of small Cubes , of the weight of about 3.Catti(a Catti being 20 Ounces .
) These pieces thus wrought sold to the people , that commonly in great numbers fetch them , coming from the Town Sintesimo ( otherwise Jontiou ) in the Province of Kiansy , being about 50 miles distant from Wotsing , near the City KIANS Y ; which people transport them to their homes , and there bake them in this manner : They heat their Ovens well , for the space of 15 days successively , and then keep them so close , that no Air may get in ; and after 15 other days are passed , they open the Oven in the presence of an Officer , who takes every fifth vessel of each fashion for the service of the Emperor : Which done , the rest is fold to those of Ucienien , whence it is transported all over the Country .
So that the Earth is not prepared , in Nankin , where it is found , beaucause the people of that Province have not the skill of working it , as the other above-mention 'd ; who also alone have the Art of coloring it , which they keep as a great Secret , not teaching it to any , but their Children and next Kindred .
9 .
That Musk is nothing else , but the Testicles of a Beast like a Dear , found in the Province of Honan ; and that , when tis good and unmixt , as it comes from the Animali , they sell it even in Nankin and Pekin , for 30 .
or 35 .
Teyls ( that is , about so many Crowns ) the Catti , or 20.ounces .
Many other curious informations might be borrowed from this Author , concerning the Customs , Studies , Exercises of the Chinese ; of the number of the people of each Province ; of the Natural productions of the Earth and Rivers there ; of the Structure and Antiquity of their Wall ; of the Magnificence of their Porcelain Tower &amp; c ; but , remitting for these things to the Book it self , we shal only add a piece of Oeconomy , used by the Holland-Merchants in their Commerce with China ; which is , that they dry abundance of Sage-leaves , role them up , and prepare them like The , and carrying it to China , as a rare drogue , get for one pound of it , fourtimes as much The .
A DISCOURSE ABOUT THE CAUSES OF THE INUNDATION OF THE NILE , in French .
The Author of this Book is Monsieur dela Chambre , who being persuaded from several Circumstances , that accompany the Overflowing of this River , that it cannot proceed from Rain , ventures to assign for a Cause of it , and of all the other effects that happen at the time of its swelling , the Niter , wherewith that water abounds .
The discourse having six parts , the Author endeavours to show in the First , that the Waters of the Nile are Nitrous , explicating the Nature of Salt , and Saltpeter , and imputing the fertility of the Earth , as well as the fecundity of Animals , to Salt .
Where he shows , that all things , that serve to improve Land , are full of Salt ; and that it is observed , that grain steeped in Urine , before sowing , rises sooner , and becomes fuller and stronger , than else .
Adding , that that , which renders the Seed of Animals prolific , is , that one of the Spermatick veins hath its Origin from the Emulgent , through which the Nitrous and Saline Serosities , that discharge themselves into the Kidneys and Bladder , do pass .
In the Second , he examins , what is Fermentation , and how it is performed ; affirming , that , what thrusts forth Plants in the Spring , is , that the Earth being fermented by the Niter , it harbours , the Nitrous spirits insinuate themselves into their Pores .
In the Third he treats of all the Circumstances , observable in the Inundation of the Nile .
It is affirmed , that 3 or 4 days before that River begins to overflow , all its water is troubled : that then there falls a certain Dew , which hath a fermenting virtue , and leavens a Paste exposed to the Air : that the Mud , which has been drawn out of the water , grows heavier , when the overflowing begins , then it was before , and that by the increase of the weight of that Mud , they Judge of the greatness of the approaching inundation .
The Author pretends , that the Niter , which the Nile is stored with , is the cause of all these strange effects , and of many others , by him alleged .
For , saith he , when the Nitre is heated by the heat of the Sun , it ferments , and mingling with the water , troubles it , and swells it , and makes it pass beyond its banks ; after the same manner , as the Spirits in new Wine render it troubled , and make it boyle in the vessel .
And it seems not likely to him , that the Mud , found in the Nile , should come a far off ; for then it would at last so raise the banks of this River , that it would not be able to overflow them any longer .
Whereas it is more than 2000 years , that the banks thereof are not grown higher , there being now requisite but 16 .
cubits for overflowing the Land , no more than there was in the time of Herodotus .
Which shows , saith he , that this Mud is nothing but a volatil Niter , which exhaling , doth not increase the Earth .
As for the Egyptian Dew , and the increase of the weight of the Mud , he adscribes them to the same Cause .
For , the spirits of Nitre abounding in the Nile , when raised into the Air with the vapors , that exhale continually from this River , there is made out of their mixture , a Dew , that refreshes the Air , makes sickness to cease , and produces all those admirable effects , that make the Egyptians wish for it so passionately .
And the same spirits of Niter , being joined to the Paste , and to the Mud , raise the one , and augment the weight of the other .
That , which Mr. Buratini observes , that at the time of this inundation , the Niter-pits of the neighbouring places vomit out liquid Niter , and that one may see issue out of the Earth abundance of Chrystals of Nitre , is alleged to fortify this conjecture ; Which is yet more confirmed by the Fertility , communicated to the Earth by the Mud of this River .
For , plants do grow there in such abundance , that they would choke one another , if it were not remedied by throwing Sand upon the Fields ; insomuch that the Egyptians must take as much pains to spread Sand to lessen the fatness of their Land , as other Nations do , to spread dung or other manure upon theirs to increase the fatness .
In the Fourth and Fifth , the Author undertakes to prove , that all those strange effects cannot be attributed to Rain or Snow , and that the overflowing of the Nilq always happens at a certain day .
In the Last , he alleges some Relations , serving to confirm his Opinion : Which are too long here to insist upon .
DE PRINCIPIIS ET RATIOCINATIONE GEOMETRARUM ; Contra Fastum Professorum Geometriae ; Authore Thomas Hobbes .
It seems , that this Author : is angry with all Geometricians , but himself ; yea he planly saith in the dedication of his Book , that he invades the whole Nation of them ; and unwilling , it seems , to be called to an accountfor doing so , He will acknowledge no judge of this Age , but is full of hopes , that posterity will pronounce for him .
Mean while he ventures to advance this Dilemma ; Eorum qui de iisdem rebus mecum aliquid eaiderunt , aut solus in sanio Ego , aut solus non insanio ; tertium enim non est , nisi ( quod dicet forte aliquis ) insaniamus omnes .
Doubtless , one of these will be granted him .
As to the Book it self , he professes , that he doth not write it against Geometry , but Geometers ; and that his design in it is , to show , That there is no less uncertainty and falsity in the writings of Mathematicians , than there is in those of Naturalists , Moralists , &amp;c. though he judges , that Physicks , Ethicks , Politicks , if they were well demonstrated , would be as certain as the Mathematicks .
Attacking the Mathematical Principles as they are found in Books , and withal some Demonstrations , he takes to task Euclid himself , instead of all , as the Master of all Geometricians , and with him his best interpreter , Clavius , examining in the First place , the Principles of Euclid : Secondly , Declaring false , what is superstructed upon them , whether by Euclid , or Clavius , or any Geometer whatsoever that hath made use of those or other ( as he is pleased to entitle them ) false Principles .
Thirdly , Pretending , that he means so to combat all , both Principles and Demonstrations , undertaken by him , as that he will substitute better in their room , least he should seem to undermine the Science it-selfe .
The particulars , which he undertakes to reform , are , Punctum : Linea .
Terminus .
Linea Recta .
Superficies .
Superficiei Termini .
Superficies Plana , Angulus(Where he is large upon the Angulus Contractus .
) Petitio prima Elem .
I. Euclidis .
Ratio .
Radix &amp; Latus .
Prop. 16 .
El.3 .
Dimensio Circuli .
Magnitudo Circuli Hugeniana , Sectio Anguli .
Ratio , quam habet recta composita ex Radio &amp; Tangente 30.grad , ad Radium ipsum , Propos .
47 ae .
Elem .
I. Demonstratio .
Addita est Appendix de Mediis proportionalibus in genere .
KING SALOMONS PORTRAITURE OF OLD AGE ; by John Smith , M.D. This Treatise being a Philosophical Discourse , though upon a Sacred Theme , may certainly claim a place among Philosophical Transactions .
Not here to mention the many other learned Notes , this Worthy Author gives upon that Hieroglyphical Description of Old Age , made by that Royal Pen-man of Ecclesiastes , cap. 12 .
We shall only take notice of that surprisingly Ingenious one , there to be met with , concerning the Antiquity of the Doctrine of the Blood 's Circulation : King Salomon , who lived near 2700 years ago , using such expressions , as may , to a considering Reader , very probably denote the same Doctrine , which the Sagacious Dr. Harvey has of late years so happily brought to light , and introduced into all the most Ingenuous Societies of Learned men : The Pitcher , mentioned in the quoted place , being Interpreted for the Veins , and the Fountain , for the Right Ventricle of the Heart , as the Cistern for the Left ; the Wheel , there spoken off , manifestly importing a Circulation , made by the Great Artery with its Branches , the principal Instrument thereof .
Printed with Licence for John Martyn , and James Allestry , Printers to the Royal Society .
1666 .

