]\gt ; 3.54 Mr. L. F. Richardson .
The Supply of sodium hydrate .
Acids were also used for dissolving the metallic splash , with negative results .
If the xenon is present as a metallic compound , it must therefore go into solution as a compound on dissolution .
Silicon hydrides , when treated with hydrate , gives sodium silicate ; it may be that xenon behaves in a himilar manner , and that a xenate of sodium is formed .
The Supply of En from to Atmospheric Eddies .
By LEwls F. RICHARDSON .
( Communicated by Sir Napier Shaw , F.R.S. Received March 9 , 1920 .
) Introduction .
This paper extends Osborne Reynold 's theory of the Criterion of Turbulence , to make it apply to the case in which work is done by the eddies , acting as thermodynamic engines in a gravitating atmosphere .
For simplicity , the air is supposed to be dry .
The gist of the solution is contained in equations and beJow .
Some a1lal to thermodynamics are then introduced , including the conception of an eddy-heat-per-mass , and its diminution when the air expands .
conceptions are helpful in discussing the manner in which eddies diffuse .
I am indebted to Mr. W. H. Dines , , for his valuable advice at many stages of this work .
While it was being finished off , a treatment of the Criterion of Turbulence , by Wilhelm Schmidt , of Vienn come to hand .
For the supply of energy from the wind , he gives much fuller observational data than I have done .
But , for the modynalnic loss , he concludes that the activity per voluule has the average value where is the gas constant in erg units , is the absolute temperature , and the height .
This is incompatible with the result arrived at in equation below , and is , oreover , difficult to reconcile with observation .
I am inclined to think that Prof. Schmidt has accidentally nitted a factor , , in the diffusion equation .
On rating ptially , and taking account of boundary conditions , change would explain the discrepancy , if the turbulence were independent of height , as he assumes .
* .
der Hydrog . .
Mar. Meteorol November-December , 1918 .
Energy from and to Atmospheric Eddies .
[ Added May 25 , 1920.\mdash ; At the meeting at which this paper was discussed Mr. G. I. Taylor mentioned some studies of stability which formed part of his Adams Prize Essay in 1914 .
The oscillations of superposed laminae of different density became unstable when a criterion was reached which resembled below , except that the numerical coefficient contained a factor of 2 or of 4 depending on the number of the laminae .
By a energymethod he had arrived at a numerical coefficient reeing with that of .
It is to be hoped that these investigations will appear in print .
] I. Tloe Forms of Since energy is conserved , we might find the supply to eddies by counting up the losses from ] all the other forms .
In order to relieve ourselves of the trouble of considering effects at vertical walls , let us consider a large volume of atmosphere , say that standing on a land area measurin .
km .
km .
or larger .
Let this area be A cm.2 .
Let be the mean pressure at the earth 's surface .
Then the mass standing upon A is , say .
Let be an element of this mass .
The changes of the energy present in mass may be ssified as ( i ) Change of intrinsic thermal energy where is the therlual capacity per at constant volume , and is the temperature .
( ii ) Change of gravitational energy whele is the height of and is the acceleration of gravity .
( iii ) Imagine the wind velocity to be snloothed , so as to remove the usts .
Let be the actual winds ; let be the means of the same .
The means may be supposed to be taken over a time-interval , long compared with gusts , but short compared with the passage of barometric depressions .
Denote deviations from the mean by dashes , so that ; ; Square , add and multiply by half the density , and again take the mean , denoted by a bar , over a similar interval of time .
Then , as is well known , the terms taining products of means and deviations vanish , leaving so that the kinetic energy may be divided into that associated with the mean and that associated with the deviations .
Denote these parts , lor our Mr. L. F. ichardson .
The Supply of large atmospheric block , by and respectively , and their increases.by and object of this paper is to study By the continuity of energy where is the rate at which heat-energy is flowing into the large port of atmosphere from the vegetation and or from the sea .
And is the excess of the radiation flowing in over that flowing out .
And is the rate at which work is being transnlitted across the vertical walls in the form of ( pressure)(velocity ) .
As the size of the area increases , dwindles relatively to the other terms .
Let us W. The immediate effect of the radiation is to alter the temperature of th9 air , vegetation , land or sea .
Afterwards , these temperature-changes may cause eddies .
But in this paper we suppose that the temperature distribu- tion is known .
Therefore we may ignore radiation , provided that we also the changes of temperature which it is at the instant producing .
Let be the change in the intrinsic energy not due to radiation .
Accordingly , becomes This equation may be further simplified , for Mr. W. H. Dines has shown that there is a connection between the changes of gravitational and intrinsic energy .
* On inserting the appropriate constants , the thermal capacity per mass at constant volume , and the " " gas constant\ldquo ; defined by the characteristic equation where is density , Mr. Dines ' theorem takes the following form : " " In a column of dear .
bounded by vertical walls , and exjtending from the ground pwards to a height at the pressure is negligible , the in total energy , reckoned from the ground , is times the corresponding change in the total intrinsienergy Now , , where is the capacity per mass constant pressure .
The theorem may therefore be interpreted thus : a column of air , of unit mass , in cooling , gives out energy as if it had a specific heat Of this , a part , , is due to the sinking of the column .
So equation simplifies to .
( 1.10 ) The whole energy is sometimes correctly classified in ways involving the 'Q .
J. Roy .
Met .
Soc p. 188 , July , 1913 .
Energy from to Eddies .
pressure .
Margnle instance , calculates the energy associated with local irregularities of pressure .
In the present scheme this energy conles in ( i ) and ( ii ) , and , to include pressural energy in addition , would be to count some of the energy twice over .
It seems to be most natural to regard pressure only as concerned in the transfer across surfaces .
Once across , energy appears in some other form\mdash ; gravitational , intrinsic , or molar kinetic .
II .
The Supply from the Mean Osborne Reynolds showed that the kinetic energy of eddying was increased by the work done by the eddy-stresses upon the corresponding rates of mean strain .
In the atmosphere , above trees and houses , many of the rates of mean strain are yible , and the activity may be abbreviaCed to activity per volume where , are the shearing stress on planes where h is the upward co-ordinate .
If be the " " eddy viscosity\ldquo ; defined as .
( 2.2 ) Then equation may be activity per volume ' , ( 2 .
) ) where and are not equal- , as by the author , expressing the rate at which the mean-wind ives up its energy to eddies .
Numerical data , based on observation , collected by H. U. III .
The Loss by Jlolecular balances ) gain of energy ainst the energy converted into heat at a rate per volume equal to " " The Mechanical Equivalent of Pressure 'Abbe 's Translations , ' series , Smithsonian Publications .
Lamb , 'Hydrodynamics , ' 4th ed. , S369 .
' Phil. , p. 1 ( 1920 ) .
S 'Geo .
Inst. , Leipzig , ) 2nd Her .
, Band II , Heft 4 .
Lamb , ' Hydrodynamics , ' 4th ed. , Mr. L. F. Richardson .
The Supply of where is ) molecular viscosity and dashes denote deviations from the mean .
This rate of loss will vanish if the eddying energy vanishes , for then will be zero everywhere .
Further , it is clear that the loss by molecular viscosity with the eddying velocities and with the mallness of the eddies .
The expression when rated over the volume standing on the large area A will be denoted The suffix is necessary because it is not the only part of To gain some idea of the numerical value of the dissipation , let us that the complicated irregular motion is analysed into a series of regular motions superposed upon one another according to the method of Fourier .
In other words , let each component of the instantaneous veIocity be expanded in sines and cosines of each of the co-ordinates .
Let us pick out for examination the terms which signifies a motion up into rularo cells , so that the eddies would look rather like papers curled up in the pigeonholes of an office desk .
The size of the cell is ?
by centimetres in the plane of the motion , and at angles to the motion .
The mean kinetic associated with this distribution is got squaring the terms and integrating over a volume of atmosphere very large compared with the size of the cell .
Taking the mean with respect to any one co-ordin ate replaces the square of a sine or cosine by So the three successive operations introduce the factor , and the mean kinetic is therefore !
, ( large vohlme ) .
( 3.3 ) Next to find the rate of dissipation we have to insert in the dissipation function quoted above .
The differentiations introduce factors .
The term conveuiently Qhes .
SquarinaIld t the llean over a large volunle introduces the factor .
So that the mean rate of dissipation comes to .
( 3.4 ) Energy from and to Atmospheric Eddies .
The quantity is a measure of the smallness of the eddy .
I , et us denote it by , so that we may speak of as the linear size of an eddy .
If the cell which encloses the eddy were cubical , then would be of the edge of the cube .
If the cube were drawn out into a very long square prism , then would be of the side of the square .
If the prisnn were stretched into a plate , would be the thickness of the plate .
Then from and Now for air at A. So if be say 10 metres So that after 24 honrs the eddying energy would have fallen to of its initial value .
The changes which we observe near the ground are much more rapid , @o that either the eddies must be smaller than the size represented by metres , or else other causes than molecular viscosity must cooperate to destroy the eddying energy .
We will not now stop to inquire what would be the interaction on the average between eddies of different sizes and positions Jpresented by the diffel'ent terms of the Fourier expansion .
The equation is to be understood as a type , not a complete formulation .
IV .
Convection .
The rising of cumuli during the daytime and the diminution of turbulence in the surface wind on clear nights both shows us that conveclion has.an important influence .
The eddies are themselves the engines by which the available heat is converted into their visible motion , so that the rate of conversion must depend somehow upon the rate of eddying .
Let us explore this question .
But the eddies are imperfect engines , for they lead to mixing of portions of air at different temperatures , and mixing is an irreversible process .
If , however , we can by any means find the diminution of the intrinsic heat energy of the atmosphere , we shall be able to find the energy supplied to eddies , at least if the air be dry , by the aid of the theoren1 of Section 1 given by Mr. W. H. Dines .
* Now we can find the rate of of intrinsic energy in terms of the ' Q. J. Roy .
Met .
Soc p. 188 , July , 1913 , Mr. .
F. Richardson .
The Supply of rate of eddying , by means of the equation for the diffusion of potential temperature , denoted by , ( 4.1 ) where is pressure used as a measure of depth , and where is a measure of turbulence , for which I have the name " " turbulivity In this equation from a previous paper it is necessary to make clear three points which I left coufused .
For we are now examining small effects , and precision in details is essential to success .
( i ) When there are no eddies we are accustomed to compute the flow of heat or of water vapour across a plane fro1n the flow of mass across the plane .
As the effect of eddies is to } ) treated additional , we should not include in it flow due to the mean motion of mass across a plane , and accordingly is here a differentiator which follows the mean motion of the fluid , in the sense that the effect of eddies is to cause equal masses to cross the co-ordinate surface from opposite sides .
In the case in which there is no convergence of air in the general circulation , refers to a surface of fixed pressure , not to one of fixed height .
Therefore , as is the other independent , may be replaced by curly , indicating differentiation at constant pressure .
( ii ) Secondly , the equation would not hold if entropy per mass , , were substituted in place of , because entropy is increased by mixing .
In fact , as for dry air , ( 4.2 ) the equation for the diffusion of takes the different form .
( iii ) The eddy motion produces an atmosphere with an intricate structure ; but as the diyersity is smoothed out by molecular diffusion at constant pressure , the mean value of for a secluded portion of air remains unchanged .
Therefore in equation we may regard as a mean value over a portion of an isobaric surface .
With this explanation let us return to , and deduce from it the rate of change of temperature .
For dry air ( 4.4 ) where is the standard pressure adopted in defining 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , London , vol. 96 , p. 10 1919 ) .
Energy from and to Atmospheric Eddies .
So , at constant pressure Insert this in , transfer the factor in to the other side of the equation , multiply by and integrate from the top to the bottom of the atmosphere , with respect to the element of mass per unit horizontal area .
( 4.6 ) Integrate the second nlember by parts ( 4.7 ) The two terlns on the right are both activities due to convection ) unit horizontal area .
They may be distinguished as the " " \ldquo ; the " " body activity\ldquo ; respectively .
The boundary activity must vanish at top of the atmosphere .
The sign of the second integral iu determines whether , in the body of the atmosphere , heat is transformed to eddying versed .
Now is essentially positive and so is , since the integration is made downwards .
Therefore implies that heat becomes eddying if the potential temperature increases downwards .
That is what we should expect .
If there were no eddying , would vanish and equation would colTectly indicate no activity .
The atmosphere uight then be mstable , but if so , it would be at rest in equilibrium\mdash ; a hypothetical case nlerely .
Consider the boundary activity in equation .
Now , in referred to it is shown that is the amount of across surface per area per time , when is defined by the statement that is amount of per unit mass of atmosphere , and the surface ought to have been specified as one crossed by equal masses from opposite sides .
Thus equation ( 47 ) shows that the boundary conveclive activity is simply the rate ac which eddies remove heat energy from the ground , etation , or sea per horizontal square centimetre .
To correspond with the equation of continuity of energy in the form of Section I , we must integrate over the large horizontal area A. When so integrated , the boundary activity per area becomes what we have formerly denoted by G. And the first member is times the whole rate of increase in intrinsic energy , not arising from radiation , nor from dissipation of eddying * .
Soc. Proc , London , vol. 96 , p. 11 ( 1919 ) equation ( 16 ) .
Mr. L. F. Richardson .
The Supply of kinetic energy by molocular viscosity .
So we obtain for the of the body activity , the following expression:\mdash ; .
( 4.8 ) This expression can be much siml ) Iilied by using the relations , where is eddy conductivity ( gas equation ) , ( hydrostatic equation ) , ( definition of potential tenlp The stages by which the transformation takes place may be as follows:\mdash ; last is tho simplest .
When inserted in the latter becomes In words this may be stated as rate at which ntrinsic ravitional energyjointly being transformed the energy of is per to , that is to to the product of the eddy coninto the acceleration of into the gradient of entropy per mass , divided by the th capacity mass at constant pressure .
Now there exist observations of and of .
So let us divide the activity per volume into the factors and and make a table of the latter under average conditions .
computing from observations , a convenient formula is , ( 4.16 ) it applies accurately to dry , and with quitc small errors to clear moist air when has its value for dry air .
So I have taken data for clear days where such were available .
It is not worth considering cloudy days until the theory can be arranged throughout for that purpose , and that would very greatly add to its complexity .
Energy from to Atmospheric Eddies .
Table I. ( Computed from Josef 's Aualysis of the Observations , * clear days only .
) Table II .
England , days both clear ) Doubtful , owing to formula for having been used .
These Tables show that on clear days in the troposphere / is of the order of sec. on the average .
Now the eddy conductivity at the height of a kilometre has besll found by numerous observers to be of the order of 100 grnl .
sec. aking these numbers it follows that is the convective activity per volume lost by the eddies . .
Joint Effects of the Various Supplies .
In the equation of continuity in the form let us now insert the convective activity given by together with Reynold 's expression for the supply of energy from the mean wind .
The result is Vieweg und Sohn , Braunschweig , 'Arbeiten des K. P. Aeronautischen Observatoriums bei Lind } ' vol. 8 , p. 247 ( 1912 ) .
* Computed from ' Characteristics of the Free Atmosphere , ' by W. H. Dines , p. 62 .
Mr. L. F. Richardson .
The Supply of In reckoning the change of temperature due to convection , we took no account of the heat produced by the dissipation of eddy motion by molecular viscosity .
So that , as just given , ought to be decreased by the quantity and a completer formulation is therefore:\mdash ; E\fnof ; m ( 5.2 ) Now G. I. Taylor*put forward the hypothesis that the eddy viscosity eddy conductivity , and observation has so far tended to confirm this .
Let us make this simplification .
Then becomes This is a very equation .
To take a special application of it , suppose that the piece of atmosphere , throughout which the integral is taken , is initiadly at .
Suppose next that an depression sets it in motion .
Will the winds be turbuJent or not ?
Suppose that they very slightly turbulent , so that and are just not zero , but so that is very small .
The question is : will increase ?
It will tend to increase if .
( 5.4 ) If the atmosphere has the ordinary value of equal to say , then the wind will become turbulent if the change of velocity with height exceeds .
That is to say , a change of about 1 metre sec. in 100 metres of height would be the critical value on an average clear day in the osphere .
Now pilot balloon ascents show such rades generally in the first 100 nlebres above ground and frequently up to a kilometre .
But above a kilometre such up-grades are rather uncomlnon until the base of the stratosphere is reached , where again there is a rapid change .
But at this height , as Table II shows , has increased considerably , so that a more rapid variation of wind , say 18 metres sec. per kilometre of height , would be required to produce turbulence .
The stability of the stratosphere is well shown by the large value of. .
We conclude then that the usual source of atmospheric eddies is in the first few hundred metres , and that they may sometimes be formed at the base of the stratosphere .
The limit to will be set by the dissipation term * Phil. Trans , 1914 .
' Manual of Meteorology , ' by Sir Napier Shaw , Part IV , Ch. VI . .
M. B. Dobson , ' Q. J. Met .
Soc Jan. , 1920 .
Energyfrom and to Atmospheric Eddies .
361- ) * a dry atmosphere tends to bring the entropy-gradient , towards zero .
So if the atmosphere is originally stable , equation indicates that the more it is stirred the easier does it become to stir .
The dying away of the surface wind at night has for some time been explained as an effect of radiation , which by increasing makes the lower layers too stable for eddies to exist in them .
Equation conforms to this explanation and gives to it an expression which is quantitative .
Equation also shows that , when the day wind is sufficiently strong will overpower the term in , so that eddies will continue to exist and to supply momentum to the surface air , even on a clear night .
That fits with observation .
At Benson , for example , where the anemometer head is 26 metres above the plain , the day wind usually dies away on a clear winter night if it is 5 .
but not if it is 11 metres/ sec. , provided that eyenings on which the barometric gradient is changing rapidly are excluded .
A theory like this one , which supposes the mean velocities to be in horizontal straight lines , .
can only fit with observation at a height above the rrround which is large compared with the ularities of the surface .
To make a proper test of equation the following installation would be suitable : Two anemometers , one above the other , to determine ; the lower should be at a height large compared with the local irregularities on the ground ; a differential thermometer to read the difference of temperature between these two anemometer heads ; and a pressure tube VOL XCVIL\mdash ; A. 366 Mr. L. F. Richardson .
Supply of anemometer xced at anintern ) level to record the range of the gusts .
I am not aware of the cxisbence of such an installation .
Choosing an occasion at Benson , when trees interfered as little as possible with the wind currents , I obtained the results shown in the figure .
The alul eeadings were taken with an aspirated thermometer .
It is seen that the proacib of for and coinxides at 16 of the .
A fecl agreement could not be expected because was measured over the interval 1 .
to 26 , while only over the interval 1 .
to 16 .
Again it would have been better if gustiness could have been measured at the average height , but trees prevented this .
On this night the wind did not die away after sunset , but the current from 19 .
to 23 .
is probably the katabatic wind from the Chiltern Hills described by Mr. E. Newhaul in M. O. Professional Notes No. 2 .
VI .
Tl , eIrrevcrsibility of Convection .
We ma think of this by aid of the resulting increase of the total entropy in an atmosphcric colunrn standing ) a horizontal unit area .
Since is the mass in tho short length of the column .
( 6.1 ) But with ives i an ernative f of .
( 6.2 ) this in integrating by .
( 6.3 ) The integrated term is ] the rate at which entropy is the from the earth 's surface .
Bemembel i that the remaining integral may be written in alternative forms as follows:\mdash ; This quantity is essentially positive as ) hold expect , since entropy cannot decrease .
shows that the rate of increase of entropy depends upon the square of , whereas the rate at which eddying energy is converted into heat depends upon the first power of the same , see .
Thus the nearer the gradient of entropy approaches to zero the Energy from to Eddies .
more nearly will the eddies approach to perfectly reversible engines .
If the eddy conductivity were confined to a range of height which were constant , so that we might remove the integral signs , then dividing the last form of by the last of it would follow that Multiplying by the temperuture of the layer we find .
( 6.6 ) fraction is a } ) number , which has an average of one-third in the troposphere .
We se from that in isothornlal atmosphore it would have the value unity .
In an adiabatic abnlosphere it is zero .
VII .
Bddy Bevlsed ) The direct eddy stresses , according Go O. ; ; when tractions are reckoned positive , and bars denoLo luean values , and dashes denote deviations from the Following custom in tho theory of viscous fluids , we could define " " pressure , as the negative mean of direct tractions .
( 7.2 ) From and it follows that .
This resembles tho " " gas equation\ldquo ; and ests hab we might tentatively introduce the idea of ' eddy-heat per mass defined thus " " eddy-heat per mass\ldquo ; say , so that Next taking a estiou from the adiabatic cooling of gases , whether the ( jddy-heat-per-mass would ninish if air the eddies were suddenly expanded .
In this connection we must note that the energy per mass , with which we are concerned , is Ilot acoustical , and so moves with , not through , the fluid ( Helmholtz , Kelvin ) .
It is true that as defined by would include some tical energy , but let us Mr. L. F. Richardson .
The Supply supl ) that sufficient time has elapsed to allow this to disperse itself with the speed of sound .
To obtain some light on the question , let us imagine a region containing a lively eddy motion accompanied by a mean-expansion .
Reynolds ' investigalion relates to an incompressible fluid , so we must make a fresh start .
Consider a plane moving so that on the average as much mass crosses it from one side as from the other .
For simplicity 1eG the plane be set at angles to .
The molar kinetic in the fluid at any point is per volume .
And not being acoustical , it is with the velocity of the fluid plane is moving at the speed , ths volume of fluid crossing an area of the plane in unit time is So the mean rate at which molar kinetic energy crosses the plane is Now introduce dashes for variations from the mean so that ; ; and the like .
Then becomes , on squaring out , Now the mean values of the rapidly varying quantities , which are indicated by dashcs , will approximately vanish when taken over a sufficiently large area .
So also will vanish the mean of any dashed into any barred quantity , since the barred quantities vary slowly from point to point .
Thus we may pick out from the following terms which vanish:\mdash ; Again , since an increase of is as likely to be accompanied by a poSitiye as by a negative , So the following terms in vanish : which is equivalent to assuming the absence of convection of mass .
In order to divide our difficulties , let us at this stage assume that This assumption implies that the eddying kiuetic per volume is not correllated with , so that portions of are not moving specially to either side of the plane .
is to say , we have assumed no diffusion of eddying energy , from where it is intense to where it is feeble .
We shall return to the question of diffusion in the next section .
from and to Atmospheric Eddies .
Let , ( 7.10 ) , ( 7.11 ) be assumed , then simplifies to Now , in conformity with nolds ' statement of the eddy stresses , when the bar replaces as an averaging operator , put to connplete .
; ; Then the mean rate which ] molnr kinetic energy is crossing unit area of a plane set at angles to and with the fluid at its centre , becomes from Now , if we added to the plane , which we may imagine as square , ve other plaries , also moving with the fluid to form at one instant a unit cube ; then we see that the rate of increase of molar kinetic in the distorting , cube will nneously be .
Since the mass of the cube is and does not as the cube swells , the expression must be equal to , ( 7.1C ) where denotes a differenliation mean mol , ion .
This.ives the decrease in the molar kinetic energy .
We want the part of it associated with the eddies , separated from that associated with the mean wind .
But the changes which we have been considering between the and fluid touching it , so that they concern only the relative velocity of the cube and itfi surroundings .
Therefore without loss of generality , may take as vanishing at the centre of the cube .
Then the associated with the mean otion vanishes , ] only part in .
So when equated to yields Mr. L. F. Richardson .
The Supply of The first member is Reynolds ' Activity , formed the products of the eddystresses into the corresponding components of mean strain .
We have arrived it proof which differs from Reynolds ' in that we have : ( i ) Supposed the fluid to be compressible .
( ii ) away with the envelope at which he made all the velocities to vanish , and have replaced it by certain assumptions as to the approximate vanishing of various means .
Just as ordinary thermodynamics is correct because the number of molecules is enormous , hermodynamics is an approximation which improves as the number of eddies increases .
far as Activity depends upon distortion , we have already dealt with it in Sections and above .
Let us now suppose that the are zero , and let us exanline the remaining part due to the expansion .
will be limited here to Now tions by G. I. Taylor and by the author*have shown that , except in the first few metres above the surface , , at least other words , there tendency artition of energy between the three components of velocity .
For simplicity , le us this to be the case , so that from Then from But by the continuity of mass therefore from or , using and transposing or is constant following the mean motion .
That is exactly like the adiabatic equation for a gas having a tem ' Phil. , 1920 .
Energy .
from to At Eddies .
perature and a ratio of specific heats equal to \mdash ; like mercury vapour , krypton , and other monatomic gases .
One is tempted to call the " " eddy-temperature , \ldquo ; but it is perhaps best to avoid this term , for has different dimensions , and so cannot be expressed in degrees on a thermometer .
It is correctly called " " eddy-heat-per-mass.\ldquo ; We are thus led to the conception of a " " potential eddy-heat-per-mass , \ldquo ; defined as where is some standard density .
In arriving at , we ignored the fact that the molecules do not all move with the velocity , which we attribute to fluid at a point .
But these molecular motions are the cause of the ordinary pressure .
By a method , closely to that by which and are obtained , it can .
be shown that should be increased by and by terms depending on molecular viscosity .
These in turn lead to the of the orclinary temperature at a point .
But all that is well understood , and our simplest plan is to leave out from all the equations , and to expect no result relating to ordinary cooling .
Similarly , with to gravity .
That has been left out .
If it had been included , we should have had to consider the mean flux of gravitational energy over a plane moving with the mean motion .
The flux will vanish if that is to say , if convection can be ected .
But having already dealt with convection in Sections and , we may omit it here .
Thus the increase of molar-kinetic and of gravitational energy in the cube is still given by .
But , in place of ) , we Shall have where is the ravity potential .
It is not now permissible to suppose zero at the centre of the moving cube , since must be relative to the attracting earth .
So the first member of mnst be increased by while the second member of the same equation is increased by Mr. L. .
Richardson .
The Supply of But these two increases balance one another , account of the dynamical equation .
Therefore is correct also when gravity is The foregoing theory , which states that the eddy-heat-per-mass is diminished by a mean expansion , my be expected to have some application to the following natural phenomena : ( i ) turbulent winds up mountain sides ; ( ii ) numerous small eddies carried together upwards in some larger circulation , such as that made visible by cumulus or thunder cloud .
But on account of the assumption the theory does not apply to the case in which the small eddies wander individually from crowded to roomy regions .
VIII .
DiffusioJb of Eddying Energy .
( Revised May 11 , 1920 .
) ieut.-Col .
A. describes flying over the Nile in a wind of 13 metres/ sec. : " " towards 10 o'clock or so the river appeared like a sheet of glass , but a little later , when the sun began to heat the ground , one saw ripples coursing over the surface of the river and after half-an-hour or so the gusts reached the aviators at a of about 2/ 3 km .
Capt. C. K. M. also writes of " " rising turbulence\ldquo ; as of something commonly experienced .
hese observations fit in with the theory of Section to the effect that turbulence usually originates near the ground .
According to what law then does it diffuse ?
Two different processes may go on at the same time .
Eddies may wander individually from places where they are crowded to places where they are rare .
We may speak of this as a true diffusion of eddy-heat-per-mass .
Or large whirls , such as those indicated by cumuli , may lift several cubic kilometres of air thousands of smaller eddies .
This be called a large-eddy-diffusion of small-eddyheat-per-mass .
Let us cuss this first .
Small-heat Can it , for instance , be fitted into the following form of diffusion equation ?
' where is some unknown quantity which is not zero when .
For this to be a possible form must satisfy the following conditions .
1 .
must be carried along with the moving air .
2 .
must be unaltered by the expansion or contraction of the air with which it moves .
'Aeronautical ' p. 415 , July , 1919 .
' J. Scott .
Met .
Soc vol. 17 .
J. Taken with revision from ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 96 , pp. 10 , 11 ( 1919 ) .
Energy to Eddies .
And if be an element of mass and be taken over a portion of air , then 3 .
be unchanged by internal rearrangement of the portion at constant pressure .
( 84 ) 4 .
must be unchanged by delay .
May we put for the " " potential-eddy-heat-per-mass\ldquo ; discussed in Section That would satisfy , , .
Condition is not at all satisfied unless we treat the diffusion-process as supplemental to the changes indicated in but with this un derstanding , and therefore , would be satisfied if mass where is the " " eddy-heat-per-mass\ldquo ; is the standard density adopted for the purposes of definition .
The of -heat bears the same kind of relation to the convection of small eddies with cumuli as molecular conduction of leat bears to eddy-conduction of the same .
We have already encountered an expression giving the mean rate at which energy diffnses unit area of plane perpendicular to the -axis , in the forll but it is required to transforlu this into another applical ) to vations .

