300 Dr. J. C. Bose .
On the Influence In the next series of observations , the rays were refracted from air into glass .
The electric beam was rendered parallel with tht help of a glass lens ( f = 4cm .
) .
The beam was incident on th\lt ; plane face of the semi-cylinder .
As the cylinder itself focussed the refracted beam , the objective hitherto used in conjunction with tht receiver was dispensed with .
1 i. r. Mean value of r. / * .
40 ' 18 ' 19 18 18 ' 20 ' 2-04 50 ' 22 ' 23 22 ' 30 ' 22 ' 30 ' 2 00 65 ' 23 ' 30 ' 26 ' 27 2G ' 10 ' 2-05 Mean value of = 2 03 ... ... . .
( 1 ) .
The different values of fi obtained are given below:\#151 ; From total reflection from a single semi-cylinder , 2,08 ... .
( 1 ) , , , , , , two semi-cylinders. .
2-04 ... .
( 2 ) From refraction from glass into air ... ... ... ... . .
2'04 ... .
( 3 ) , , , , air into glass ... ... ... . .
203 ... .
( 4 ) The frequency of vibration was of the order 1010 .
The value of the optical index of the glass determined by the total reflection method was found to be / \lt ; x ) \#151 ; 1'53 .
" On the Influence of the Thickness of Air-space on Total Reflection of Electric Radiation .
" By Jagadis Chgnder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor ot Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received November 15 , \#151 ; Read November 25 , 1897 .
In my preliminary experiments on the determination of the index of refraction of various substances for electric radiation , I used a Air-space on Total Reflection of Electric Radiation .
301 single serai-cylinder of the given substance ; the electric ray was refracted from the denser medium into air , and at the critical angle of incidence it underwent total reflection .
The experiment was repeated with two semi-cylinders separated by a parallel air-space .
With light waves an extremely thin air-film is effective in producing* total reflection .
But a question might arise whether waves a hundred thousand times as long would be totally reflected by films of air , and , if so , it would be interesting to find out the minimum thickness of air-space which would be effective in producing this result .
This point was raised by Professor Lodge , at the discussion on my paper " On a Complete Apparatus for the Study of the Properties of Electric Waves , " read before the Liverpool meeting of the British Association last year .
I have for some time past been engaged in an investigation on this subject .
The factors which are likely to determine the effective thickness of air-space for total reflection are : ( 1 ) the index of refraction of the refracting substance ; ( 2 ) the angle of incidence ; ( 3 ) the wave-length of the incident electric radiation .
In the following investigation , I have studied the influence of the angle of incidence and of the wave-length in modifying the thickness of the effective air-space .
The refracting substance used was glass .
I. Influence of the Angle of Incidence .
The great experimental difficulty in these investigations lies in the fact , that there is at present no receiver for electric radiation which is very sensitive , and at the same time strictly metrical in its indications .
This difficulty is further complicated by the fact that the intensity of the electric radiation cannot be maintained absolutely constant .
For these reasons , it is extremely difficult to compare the results obtained from different sets of observations .
Attempts have been made in the following experiments to remove , to a certain extent , some of these difficulties .
Two semi-cylinders of glass , with a radius of 12*5 cm .
, were placed on the spectrometer circle .
The plane faces were separated by a parallel air-space .
The radiator was placed at the principal focus of one of the semi-cylinders ; the rays emerged into the air-space as a parallel beam , and were focussed by the second semi-cylinder on the receiver placed opposite the radiator .
Electric radiation was produced by oscillatory discharge between two small circular plates 1'2 cm .
in diameter and an interposed platinnm ball 0'97 cm .
in diameter .
The two semi-cylinders were separated by an air-space 2 cm .
in thickness ; this thickness was found to be more than sufficient for total reflection .
The critical angle for glass I found to be 29 ' .
I commenced my experiments with an angle of incidence of 30 ' 302 Dr. J. C. Bose .
On the Influence of the Thickness of ( slightly greater than the critical angle ) .
The receiver , which wa placed opposite the radiator , remained unaffected as long as the ray were totally reflected .
But on gradually diminishing the thickness of air space by bringing the second semi-cylinder nearer the firs ( always maintaining the plane surfaces of the semi-cylinders parallel ' a critical thickness was reached when a small portion of the radia tion began to be transmitted , the air-space just failing to produc total reflection .
The beginning of transmission could easily b detected and the critical thickness of air determined with tolerabl accuracy .
The slight discrepancy in the different determination was due to the unavoidable variation of the sensitiveness of th receiver .
When the thickness of air was reduced to 14 mm. , th receiver began occasionally to be affected , though rather feebly But when the thickness was reduced to 13 mm. there was no uncer tainty ; a measurable , though small , portion of the radiation wa now found to be always transmitted .
I now increased the angle of incidence to 45 ' , and observed thal the minimum thickness , which at 30 ' just allowed a small portioi of radiation to be transmitted , was not sufficiently small to allov transmission at the increased angle of incidence .
The thickness ha( to be reduced to something between 103 mm. and 09 mm. for th\lt ; beginning of transmission .
With an angle of incidence of 60 ' , the minimum thickness for tota reflection was found to be between 7'6 mm. and 7'2 mm. Angle of incidence .
Minimum thickness of air for total reflection .
30 ' Between 14 and 13 mm. 45 " 10*3 and 9*9 mm. 60 " 7*6 and 7*2 mm. The minimum effective thickness is thus seen to undergo a diminution with the increase of the angle of incidence .
II .
The influence of the .
In the following experiments I kept the angle of incidence constant , and varied the wave-length .
I used three different radiators .
A , B , and C ; of these A emitted the longest , and C the shortes The following method of experimenting was adopted as ottering some special advantages .
If a cube of glass be interposed between the radiator and the receiver placed opposite to each other , Air-space on Total Reflection of Electric Radiation .
303 radiation striking one face perpendicularly would be transmitted across the opposite face without deviation and cause a response in the receiver .
If the cube be now cut across a diagonal , two right-angled isosceles prisms will be obtained .
If these two prisms were now separated slightly , keeping the two hypotenuses parallel , the incident radiation would be divided into two portions , of which one portion is transmitted , while the other portion is reflected by the air film in a direction ( see fig. 1 ) at right angles to that of the Fio .
1.\#151 ; Section of the two prisms .
incident ray , the angle of incidence at the air-space being always 45 ' .
The transmitted and the reflected portions would be complementary to each other .
When the receiver is placed opposite to the radiator , in the A position , the action on the receiver will be due to the transmitted portion ; but when the receiver is placed at 90 ' , or in the B position , the action on the receiver will be due to the reflected portion .
The advantage of this method is that the two obseiwations for transmission and reflection can be successively taken in a very short time , during which the sensitiveness of the receiver is not likely to undergo any great change .
In practice three readings are taken in succession , the first and the third being taken , say , for transmission and the second for reflection .
I shall now give a general account of the results of the experiments .
When the prisms are separated by a thickness of air-space greater than the minimum thickness for total reflection , the rays are wholly reflected , there being no response of the receiver in position A , but strong action in position B. As the thickness is gradually decreased below the critical thickness , the rays begin to be transmitted .
The transmitted portion goes on increasing with the diminution of the thickness of air-space , there being a corresponding diminution of the reflected component of the radiation .
When the thickness of the air-space is reduced to about 0'3 mm. , no reflected portion can be detected even when the receiver is made extremely sensitive .
The reflected component is thus practically reduced to zero , the radiation being now entirely transmitted ; the two prisms , in spite of the breach due to the air-space , are electro-opticaliy con- 304 Dr. J. C. Bose .
On the Influence of the Thickness of Fig. 2.\#151 ; L is the lens to rentier the incident beam parallel ; P , P ' , are the right angled isosceles prisms ; A and B are the two positions of the receiver .
Th receiver-tube is not shown in the diagram .
tinuous .
This is the case only when the two prisms are made of tin same substance .
If the second prism be made of sulphur , or of an ; other substance which has either a lower or a higher refractive index there is always found a reflected portion even when the two prism , ' are in contact .
Another interesting observation can be made by separating the prisms for total reflection .
There would now be no transmitted portion .
But if a thin piece of cardboard or any other refracting sub stance be now interposed in the air-space , a portion of the radiatior will be found to be transmitted , and it will be found necessary tc separate the prisms further to reduce the transmitted portion tc zero .
Having given a general account of the experiments , I shall now describe the method of procedure .
The radiator tube was provided with an ordinary lens whose focal distance for electric radiation is about 4 cm .
The beam thus rendered approximately parallel fell perpendicularlv on the face of the glass prism , dhe two prisms were made by cutting a cube of glass an ordinary paper weight across a diagonal .
The size of the cube was 4'5 cm .
on each side .
One prism was fixed on the spectrometer circle ; the other could be moved so as to vary the thickness of the interposed aii-space between the two sections very gradually .
The separation was simply effected by means of ordinary cards .
The cards used were of unifoim thickness , each card being 045 mm. in thickness .
A certain number of cards were taken and placed between the prisms with their surfaces in contact with the hypotenuses .
dhe caids were then carefully withdrawn , leaving the prisms separated by a thickness of air equal to the thickness of the given number of cards , it would , of course , be an improvement to have a micrometer screw J which the thickness may be gradually increased .
* Larger prisms would have been preferred , had they been available .
The prisms after cutting were found to be approximately isosceles , the angles g 90 ' , 46 ' , and 44 ' .
Air-space on Total Reflection of Electric Radiation .
305 Observations were now taken to determine the mini mom thickness 5f air for total reflection for different wave-lengths , the angle of inci-lence being in all cases kept at 45 ' .
Three radiators , Rlf R2 , R3 , , vere used .
I have not yet made determinations of the lengths of svave emitted by these radiators , but it will be seen from the dimensions of the radiators that the waves emitted by R !
are the longest and those emitted by R3 the shortest .
The oscillatory discharge in Rj took place between two circular plates T2 cm .
in diameter and an interposed ball of platinum 097 cm .
in diameter .
The radiators were enclosed in a tube 3-8 cm .
in diameter .
In the radiator R2 , the discharge took place between twro beads of platinum and an interposed sphere the same as in Rt. The distance between the sparking surfaces was T01 cm .
In the radiator R3 , sparking took place between two beads and an interposed sphere 061 cm .
in diameter .
The distance between the sparking surfaces was 0 76 cm .
One prism was fixed on the spectrometer circle , and the other was at first placed somewhat apart from it ; the distance was now gradually reduced till the air-space just ceased to reflect totally , when a small portion of radiation began to be transmitted .
The beginning of transmission was detected by the receiver , which was placed in the A position .
The detection of the beginning of transmission is , as has been said before , somewhat dependent on the sensitiveness of the receiver .
Radiator .
Distance between sparking surfaces in mm. Minimum thickness for total reflection .
Ri Between 10*3 and 9 9 mm ( a ) r2 10 -1 7*6 and 7*2 mm ( b ) r3 7-6 " 5*9 and 5*4 mm ( c ) From the above results it is seen that the effective thickness of the totally reflecting air-space increases with the wave-length .
If the wave-lengths are proportional to the distance between the sparking surfaces which give rise to the oscillatory discharge , the wave-lengths in ( b ) and ( c ) are in the ratio of 101 : 76 .
This is not very different from the ratio of the corresponding minimum thicknesses of the totally reflecting air-space .
III .
On the Relation betioeen the Reflected and the Transmitted Components of Radiation when the Thickness of Air-space undergoes Variation .
In the genei'al account of the experiments , I have said that as the thickness of air-space is gradually reduced the intensity of the 306 Di .
J. G. Bosg .
Oh the Influence of the Tliichness of transmitted portion cf radiation is increased , while there is a corresponding diminution of the intensity of the reflected portion .
This I have been able to verify qualitatively from numerous observations .
But in making quantitative measurements many serious difficulties are encountered , owing to the difficulty of maintaining the intensity of radiation , as well as the sensitiveness of the receiver , absolutely constant .
As regards the first , the intensity of the emitted radiation depends on the efficiency of the secondary spark , and the nature of the sparking surface .
Keeping the primary current that flows through the Ruhmkorff coil constant , the efficacy of the secondary spark is very much affected by the manner in which the contact is broken in the primary circuit .
If a vibrating interrupter is used , the break is apt to become irregular ; the torrent of the secondary sparks also spoils the sparking surface of the radiator .
For merely qualitative experiments the use of a vibrating interrupter is not so very prejudicial , as along with the ineffective discharges there are present some which are oscillatory .
But where successive discharges are to give rise to radiation of equal intensity , it becomes necessary to avoid all sources of uncertainty .
For these reasons I prefer a single break for the production of a flash of radiation .
With some practice it is possible to produce a number of breaks , each of which is effective .
If the surface at the break is kept clean , and the break is properly effected , successive flashes of radiation up to a certain number are about equally intense .
When the sparking has been taking place for too long a time , the surface no doubt undergoes a deterioration .
But twenty or thirty successive sparks are equally efficacious when sparking takes place between platinum surfaces .
The use of a single flash of radiation is preferable on another account .
The receiver at each adjustment responds to the very first flash , but becomes less sensitive to the subsequent flashes .
The conditions of the different experiments are maintained similar , when the action on the receiver is due to a single flash of radiation , instead of the accumulated effect of an unknown number of flashes .
I give below the deflections of the galvanometer produced by four successive flashes of radiation .
( 1 ) ... ... ... .
115 divisions .
( 2 ) ... ... ... .
122 ( 3 ) ... ... ... .
113 ( 4 ) ... ... . .
108 When very careful adjustments are made , the successive deflections are approximately equal .
There are .
however , occasional failures , owing either to the fault of the break , or loss of sensitiveness of the receiver .
Air-space on Total Reflection of Electric Radiation .
307 More serious is the difficulty in connection with the receiver , fith the improvements adopted there is no difficulty , under any ircumstances , to make the receiver very highly sensitive ; but it is xtremely difficult to maintain the sensitiveness absolutely uniform , have in my previous papers explained how the sensitiveness of the aceiver depended on the pressure to which the spirals were subjected , nd on the E.M.F. acting on the circuit ; and how the loss of sensitive-ess due to fatigue was counteracted by slightly increasing the E.M.F. 1or each receiver there is a certain pressure , and a corresponding I.M.F. , at which for a given radiation the receiver is sensitive , laving obtained these conditions , the sensitiveness can be in-reased or decreased to almost any extent by a slight variation f either the pressure or the E.M.F. An increase of pressure pro-luced by the advance of the micrometer press screw through a raction of a millimetre would sometimes double the sensitiveness ; imilarly an increase of E.M.F. of even volt increases the sen-itiveness to a considerable extent .
The nature of the difficulties in maintaining the sensitiveness of he receiver uniform will be understood from what has been said hove .
These difficulties are indeed great , and appear at first to be nsuperable .
But by very careful and tedious adjustments I vas able on several occasions to obtain fairly satisfactory results , md was in hopes of ultimately obtaining symmetrical values from the galvanometer deflections .
The setting-in of the rainy weather has infortunately introduced other conditions unfavourable to the maintenance of uniformity of the sensitiveness of the receiver .
Owing to the excessive damp and heat the spirals get rusty in a short time , and variation in the sensibility is produced by the altered ; ondition of the surface of the sensitive layer .
The results of certain experiments I have carried out lead me to hope that this lifficulty will , to a certain extent , be removed by covering the sensitive surface with a less oxidisable coating .
he deflections produced in the galvanometer can only be taken approximately pi'oportional to the intensity of the absorbed radiation .
It would be better to observe the diminution of the resistance produced by the incident radiation .
This may be done with the help of a differential galvanometer and a balancing resistance .
G is a high resistance differential galvanometer , with two sets of electrodes , A , B ; C , D ; one pair of electrodes is in series with the receiver , and the other with a resistance box .
When the receiver is adjusted to respond to the electric radiation , a weak current flows through it .
The same E.M.F. acts on both the circuits .
The compensating current , produced by a proper adjustment of the resistance of the box , brings the spot of light back to zero .
The resistance of the box is equal or proportional to the resistance of the receiver .
308 Dr. J. C. Bo so .
On the In of the of When radiation is absorbed by the receiver the resistance is decreased and this diminution of the resistance is found from the new balancino resistance .
FiO .
3.\#151 ; G- , the differential galvanometer ; B , the receiver ; r , the resistance box .
All observations agreed in showing that as the thickness of air-space was gradually decreased , the transmitted component was increased , with a corresponding decrease of the reflected portion .
I give below two sets of observations , in which the receiver acted better than usual .
The results are to be taken more as qualitative , as no reliance can be placed on the sensibility of the receiver being absolutely uniform .
Radiator R3 ; distance between the sparking surfaces = 101 mm. Thickness of airspace in terms of number of cards .
Thickness in mm. Galvanometer deflection due to the reflected portion .
Galvanometer deflection due to the transmitted portion .
i 0-45 0 or very slight .
Against the stop .
2 0-90 Slight \gt ; \gt ; 4 1-8 80 160 8 3-6 145 150 10 4 5 150 120 12 5*4 160 100 16 7-2 Against the stop 30 18 8'1 \#187 ; \gt ; \gt ; 0 A ir-space on dotal Reflection of Electric Radiation .
30 ?
It is seen from the above , that as the thickness of the air-space ras gradually increased , the reflected component increased , while he transmitted portion decreased .
The minimum thickness for Dial reflection was found to be about 8 mm. When the thickness of ir-spaee was reduced to about half this thickness ( slightly less than alf ) the reflected and the transmitted portions seemed to be about qual .
With the radiator R ] the minimum thickness for total reflection ?
as found to be about equal to the thickness of 22 cards ( 9-9 mm. ) .
Vlien the thickness of air-space was reduced to the thickness of 10 ards ( 4'omra , j the reflected and the transmitted portions seemed to be bout equal .
As two experiments immediately following each other are nor likely to be comparable , the experiments were so arranged that he observation of deflection for transmission with a certain thickness \gt ; f air followed the observation for reflection with a different thickness , he corresponding deflections being about equal .
As stated above , he reflected and the transmitted portions were approximately equal when the thickness of air was equal to the thickness of 10 cards .
Ceeping 10 as the mean , pairs of readings were taken with different hicknesses .
For example , the reflection reading with a thickness of ir equal to the thickness of 4 cards was followed by taking a reading or transmission , with a thickness of air equal to the thickness of .6 cards ; the deflections produced in the two cases were about equal , .e .
, sixty-six divisions of the scale .
I append below a table showing the corresponding thicknesses of tir ( in terms of number of cards ) which gave approximately equal ieflections , the deflection in one case being due to the reflected com-(onent , and in the other case to the transmitted component .
The eceiver was made moderately sensitive , so that the deflections lay within the scale .
Thickness of air for Thickness of air Deflection produced .
reflection .
for transmission .
4 16 66 6 14 1 70 8 ii 90 1 10 10 120 When the thickness of air was reduced to 0'45 mm. , a deflection of VOL. LX I. Z Dr. F. Galton .
An Examination into the two divisions was obtained for the reflection reading .
From this an approximate idea of the intensity of the reflected component may be obtained .
Half the total radiation gave a deflection of 120 divisions .
The intensity of the reflected component , with a thickness of 0 45 mm. , is therefore l/ 120th part of the total amount of incident radiation , on the assumption , which is only approximate , that the galvanometer deflections were symmetrical .
When the thickness was reduced to 0'3 mm. , no reflected component could be detected , though the receiver was made extremely sensitive .
4 ' An Examination into the Registered Speeds of American Trotting Horses , with Remarks on their value as Hereditary Data,5 ' By Francis Galton , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received November 29 , \#151 ; Read December 16 , 1897 .
It is strange that the huge sums spent on the breeding of pedigree stock , whether of horses , cattle , or other animals , should not give rise to systematic publications of authentic records in a form suitable for scientific inquiry into the laws of heredity .
An almost solitary exception to the disregard , shown by breeders and owners , of exact measurements for publication in stud books , exists in the United States with respect to the measured speed of " trotters " and " pacers under defined conditions .
The performance of 1 mile by a trotter , harnessed to a two-wheeled vehicle , carrying a weight of not less than 150 lbs. inclusive of the driver , in 2 minutes 30 seconds qualifies him for entry in the Trotting Register , giving him , as it were , a pass-degree into a class of horses whose several utmost speeds or " records " are there published .
To avoid prolixity I will not speak particularly of pacers ( pace = amble ) , since what will be said of the trotters applies in general principle to them also .
The great importance attached to high speed , and the watchfulness of competitors , have resulted in evolving a method of timing trotters which is generally accepted as authoritative .
The length of the track is scrupulously measured , and numerous other conditions are attended to , that shall ensure the record being correct , with an attempted exactitude to the nearest quarter of a second .
A race against time , even if exact to the nearest quarter of 8 second , is by no means so close a measure of the speed of a horse relatively to his competitors , as the differential method of ordinary races .
The speed of 1 mile in 2 ' 30 " , or of 1760 yards m 150 seconds , is equivalent to about 12 yards in 1 second .
Now , t e length of a horse when extended at full trot is half as long again a8 his'height at the withers\#151 ; as I gather from the instantaneous photographs of Muybridge\#151 ; and consequently is hardly ever as much afi

