166 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On a Self-recovering Coherer and the " On a Self-recovering Coherer and the Study of the Cohering Action of different Metals .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received March 6 , \#151 ; Read April 27 , 1899 .
In working with coherers , made of iron or steel , some special difficulties are encountered in the warm and damp climate of Bengal .
The surface of the metals soon gets oxidised , and this is attended with variation of sensitiveness of coherer .
The sensitiveness , it is true , does not altogether disappear , but it undergoes a considerable diminution .
The presence of excessive moisture in the atmosphere introduces another difficulty .
Substances to be experimented on become more or less opaque by absorption of water vapour .
As fairly dry weather lasts in Bengal only for a few weeks in winter , the difficulties alluded to above are* for the greater part of the year serious drawbacks in carrying out delicate experiments .
To avoid as far as possible the partial loss of sensibility of the receiver due to oxidation , I tried to use metals less oxidisable than iron for the construction of the coherer .
In my earlier experiments I derived considerable advantage by coating the steel spirals with deposits of various metals .
Finding that the sensitiveness depends on the coating metal and not on the substratum , I used in my later experiments fine silver threads wound in narrow spirals .
They were then coated with cobalt in an electrolytic bath .
The coating of cobalt was at first apt to strip off , but with a suitable modification of the electrolyte and a proper adjustment of the current , a deposit was obtained which was very coherent .
The contact surface of cobalt was found to be highly sensitive to electric radiation , and the surface is not liable to such chemical changes as are experienced in the case of steel .
I next proceeded to make a systematic study of the action of different metals as regards their cohering properties .
In a previous paper* I enumerated the conditions which are favourable for making the coherer sensitive to electric radiation .
These are the proper adjustment of the E.M.F. and pressure of contact suitable for each particular receiver .
The E.M.F. is adjusted by a potentiometer slide .
For very delicate adjustments of pressure I used in some of the following experiments an U-tube filled with mercury , with a plunger in one of the limbs ; various substances were adjusted to touch barely the mercury in the other limb .
A thin rod , acting as a plunger , was made to dip to a more or less extent in the mercury by a slide arrangement .
In this way the mercury displaced was made to make contact with the * " On Polarisation of Electric Ray , " 'Journal of Asiatic Society of Bengal/ May , 1895 .
Study of the Cohering Action of different Metals .
167 given metal with gradually increasing pressure , this increase of pressure being capable of the finest adjustments .
The circuit was completed through the metal and mercury .
Sometimes the variation of pressure was produced by a pressure bulb .
In the arrangement described above the contact is between different metals and mercury-metals which were even amalgamated by mercury still exhibited sensitiveness to electric radiation when the amalgamation did not pro-peed too far .
In this way I was able to detect the cohering action of many conductors , including carbon .
For studying the contact-sensitiveness of similar metals I made an iron float on which was soldered a split-tube in which the given metal could be fixed , a similar piece of metal being adjusted above the float , so that by working the plunger or the pressure bulb the two metals could be brought into contact with graduated pressure .
The other arrangements adopted were the contact of spirals compressed by micrometer screw , and filings similarly compressed between two electrodes .
With the arrangement described above the action of radiation on metallic contacts was studied , a brief account of which will be given under their respective groupings .
It may here be mentioned that certain metals which do not usually show any contact-sensitiveness can be made to exhibit it by very careful manipulation .
The nature of the response of a coherer is to a certain extent modified by its condition and particular adjustment .
A coherer freshly made is more difficult to adjust , but at the same time far more sensitive .
The action is more easily under control and more consistent after a few days rest , but the sensitiveness is not so abnormally great .
The contacts of bright and clear surfaces are difficult to adjust , but such contacts are more sensitive than those made by tarnished surfaces .
Pressure and E.M.F. , as previously stated , also modify the reaction .
For example , a freshly made and very delicately adjusted coherer subjected to slight pressure and small E.M.F. showed an increase of resistance by the action of radiation .
The galvanometer spot , after a short interval , resumed its former position , exhibiting a recovery from the effect of radiation .
The coherer continued to exhibit this effect for some time , then it relapsed into the more stable condition in which a diminution of resistance is produced by the action of radiation .
Another coherer was found apparently irresponsive to radiation , there being the merest throb ( sometimes even this was wanting ) in the galvanometer spot , when a flash of radiation fell on the receiver .
Thinking that this apparent immobility of the galvanometer spot may be due to response , followed by instantaneous recovery , the galvanometer needle being subjected to opposite impulses in rapid succession , I interposed a telephone in the circuit ; each time a flash of radiation fell on the receiver the telephone sounded , no tapping being necessary to restore the sensitiveness .
The recovery was here automatic and rapid .
After twenty 168 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On a Self-recovering Coherer and the or thirty flashes , however , the receiver lost its power of automatic recovery , and the sensitiveness had then to be restored by tapping .
An interesting observation was made to the effect that on the last occasion the receiver responded without previous tapping , a rumbling noise was heard in the telephone which lasted for a short time , evidently due to the re-arrangement of the surface molecules to a more stable condition , after which the power of self-recovery was lost .
The state of sensibility described above is .
more or less transitory , and is induced , generally speaking , by a somewhat unstable contact-and low E.M.F. acting in the circuit .
In the majority of metals , the normal tendency is towards a diminution of contact resistance by the action of electric waves .
The occasional increase of resistance , in general , disappears when the pressure and E.M.F. are increased .
But in the case to be presently described we have an interesting exception , where the normal state of things is just the reverse of what prevails in the majority of metals .
Alkali Metals ' .
In the following investigations the radiator is a platinum sphere 9-7 mm. in diameter .
The coherer was placed at a short distance , so that the intensity of incident radiation was fairly strong .
Potassium.\#151 ; In working with this metal , the exceptional nature of the reaction became at once evident .
The effect of radiation was to produce an increase of resistance .
The pressure of contact was adjusted till a current flowed through the galvanometer , the galvanometer spot of light being at one end of the scale .
On subjecting the receiver to radiation the spot of light was deflected to the opposite end , exhibiting a great increase of resistance .
When the pressure and E.M.F. were suitably adjusted a condition was soon attained , when a flash of radiation made the spot of light swing energetically in one direction , indicating an increase of resistance : the receiver , however , recovered instantaneously with the cessation of radiation , and the spot violently swung back to the opposite end , indicating the normal current that flows in the circuit .
This condition was found to persist , the receiver uniformly responding with an increase of resistance followed by automatic and instantaneous recovery .
To prevent oxidation , the receiver was kept immersed in kerosene .
When the receiver was lifted from the protecting bath , it still continued to respond with an increase of resistance , but with a gradual loss of power of automatic recovery .
This power was again restored on again immersing the coherer in kerosene .
The receiver in vacuo , or under reduced hydrogen pressure , would have been preferred , had the necessary appliances been available Sodium.\#151 ; As we pass from potassium to the neighbouring , metals , there is a gradual transition of property as regards the nature of response to electric waves .
With sodium the adjustment is a little Study of the Cohering Action of different Metals .
169 more difficult than with potassium , but the response is somewhat similar to that of potassium .
Though in general there is an increase \gt ; of resistance produced by electric radiation , there are occasional exceptions when a diminution of resistance is produced .
With some trouble the adjustment could be made so that the recovery is also automatic , but it is not so energetic as in the case of potassium .
Lithium.\#151 ; Specimens of this metal not being available , I obtained a deposit of it on iron electrodes by electrolysis of the fused chloride .
The action produced by electric radiation was sometimes an increase and sometimes a diminution of resistance , the increase of resistance being the more frequent .
With some difficulty it was possible to adjust the sensitiveness so that the recovery was automatic , but it was not energetic nor did this power persist for a long time .
Metals of the Alkaline Earth .
Pure metals of this group being not available , I had to rely on the deposit obtained by electrolysis .
Chloride of calcium was fused in a crucible , and deposits were produced on iron cathodes , the anode being a carbon rod .
The deposit was not very even .
One of the iron rods with the deposit was tested by immersion under water , when hydrogen was evolved .
I did not succeed in getting deposits of either barium or strontium , the temperature available not being sufficiently high .
On making a coherer with calcium , and keeping it immersed in kerosene , an action similar to that produced by sodium was observed .
The tendency of self-recovery was , however , very slight .
Magnesium , Zinc , and Cadmium .
In these metals and in the succeeding groups there is a pronounced tendency towards a diminution of resistance by the action of electric radiation .
Magnesium being easily oxidisable , there is a thin coating of oxide on the surface .
When this is scraped , the metal makes a very highly sensitive receiver .
The adjustment is not difficult , the metal allowing a considerable latitude of pressure and E.M.F. It has already been stated that the metals which are slightly tarnished can be more easily adjusted .
Though there is in this metal a decided tendency towards a reduction of contact resistance , yet it is possible by careful adjustment to obtain an increase of resistance .
Indeed it is sometimes possible to so adjust matters that one flash of radiation produces a diminution of resistance , and the very next flash an increase of resistance .
Thus a series of flashes may be made to produce alternate throws of the galvanometer needle .
The more stable adjustment , however , gives a diminution of resistance , and receivers made with this metal could be made extremely .sensitive .
The tendency towards recovery is almost wanting .
170 Prof. J. G. Bose .
On a Self-recovering Coherer and the Zinc.\#151 ; This metal also exhibits moderate sensitiveness ; it , however , requires a more careful adjustment .
Cadmium.\#151 ; The action of this metal is somewhat similar to that of zinc , but the sensitiveness is very much less .
Bismuth and Antimony .
Both bismuth and antimony make very sensitive receivers .
Moderately small E.M.F. with slight pressure is best suited for these metals .
Iron and the Allied Metals .
Iron.\#151 ; The action of this metal is well known .
In one of my experiments I used it in connection with mercury .
When the contact is very lightly made , there is a tendency towards an increase of resistance by the action of radiation .
But after a time the action became normal , that is to say , there was a diminution of resistance .
Nickel and Cohalt.\#151 ; These are also very sensitive .
The surface being ; bright , the E.M.F. and pressure are to be adjusted with some care .
Manganese and Chromium.\#151 ; These were obtained in the form of powder .
Their action is similar to the other metals of this group .
Aluminium.\#151 ; This also makes a sensitive receiver .
Tin , Lead , and Thallium .
It is somewhat difficult to adjust tin , but when this is done the metal exhibits fair sensitiveness .
Lead is also sensitive .
The sensitiveness , of thallium is only moderate .
Molybdenum and Uranium .
The specimen obtained was in the form of powder , and very tarnished in appearance .
The sensitiveness exhibited was slight .
Metals of the Platinum Group .
Platinum exhibited a moderate amount of sensitiveness .
Spongy platinum also showed the same action .
The absorption of hydrogen made the action slightly better , but the improvement was not very marked .
Palladium.-\#151 ; This made a more sensitive coherer than platinum .
The adjustment is , however , more troublesome .
Osmium.\#151 ; The specimen was in the form of powder .
It requires a. higher E.M.F. to bring it to a sensitive condition .
The sensitiveness , was moderate .
Rhodium was found to be more sensitive than osmium .
Study of the Cohering Action of different Metals .
171 Copper , Gold , and Silver .
Copper required a much smaller E.M.F. The sensitiveness was only moderate .
Gold was more difficult to adjust , but the action is a little stronger .
Silver.\#151 ; The receiver was extremely unstable .
It exhibited sometimes a diminution and at other times an increase of resistance .
It will be seen from the above that all metals exhibit contact sensitiveness to electric radiation , the general tendency being towards a diminution of resistance .
The most interesting and typically exceptional case , however , is the receiver made with potassium , which not only exhibits an increase of resistance by the action of radiation , but also a remarkable power of self-recovery .
In the accidental instances of increase of resistance exhibited by other metals , an increase of pressure or E.M.F. generally brought the coherer to the normal condition , which showed a diminution of contact resistance by the action of electric waves .
With potassium I gradually increased the pressure till the receiver grew insensitive .
All along it indicated an increase of resistance , even when one piece was partially flattened against the other .
I increased the E.M.F. many times the normal value ; this increase ( till the limit of sensitiveness was reached ) rather augmented the sensibility and power of automatic recovery .
I allowed the receiver a period of rest , the nature of response remaining the same .
As far as I have tried , potassium receivers always gave an increase of resistance , a property which seems to be characteristic of this metal , and to a less extent , of the allied metals .
It will thus be seen that the action of potassium receiver is not , strictly speaking , a cohering one .
For it is difficult to see how a cohering action and consequent better contact could produce an increase of resistance .
It may be thought that the sudden increase of current may , by something like a Trevelyan rocker action , produce an interruption of contact .
But such a supposition does not explain the instantaneous action , and the equally instantaneous recovery .
In arranging the metals according to their property of change of contact resistance , I was struck by the similarity of action of electric radiation on potassium in increasing the contact resistance , and the checking action of visible radiation on the spark discharge .
In the latter case too potasium is also photo-electrically the most sensitive .
But the action is confined to visible radiation , and is most efficient in the ultra-violet region .
I was indeed apprehensive that the action on potassium receiver which I observed might be in some way due to the ultra-violet radiation of the oscillatory spark .
But this misgiving was put to rest from the consideration that the receiver was placed in a 172 Prof. J. A. Ewing and Mr. W. Rosenhain .
glass vessel filled with kerosene , through which no ultra-violet light could have been transmitted .
To put the matter to final test , I lighted a magnesium wire in close proximity to the receiver without producing any effect .
Thick blocks of wood of ebonite and of pitch were interposed without checking the action .
I then used polarised electric radiation , and interposed a book analyzer , 6 cm .
in thickness ; when the analyzer was held parallel , there was a vigorous action , but when it was held in a crossed position all action was stopped .
No visible or heat radiation could " have been transmitted through such a structure and there can be no doubt that the action was entirely due to electric radiation .
It would be interesting to investigate whether the observed action of electric radiation on a potassium receiver is in any way analogous to the photo-electric action of visible light .
I have commenced an investigation on this subject , the results of which I hope to communicate on another occasion .
Bakerian Lecture.\#151 ; " The Crystalline Structure of Metals .
" By J. A. Ewing , E.R.S. , Professor of Mechanism and Applied Mechanics in the University of Cambridge , and W. Eosenhain , 18ol Exhibition Research Scholar , Melbourne University .
Delivered May 18 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous communication , read to the Society on March 16 , a pi eliminary account was given of some of the results the authors had arrived at in studying metals by the microscopic methods initiated by Sorby , and pursued by Andrews , Arnold , Behrens , Charpy , Osmond , Eoberts-Austen , Stead , and others .
The present paper deals with a development and extension of the same work .
It relates chiefly , though not exclusively , to the effects of strain , and the relation of plasticity to crystalline structure .
It is well known that the etching of a polished surface of metal reveals , in general , a structure consisting of irregularly shaped grains , with clearly marked boundaries .
Each grain is a crystal , the growth of which has been arrested by its meeting with neighbouring grains .
This view , as Mr. Stead has pointed out , is strongly supported by the appearance of the etched surface under oblique illumination , when the several grains are seen to reflect light in a way which is consistent only with the idea that on each there is a multitude of facets with a definite orientation , constant over any one grain , but different from grain to grain .
The formation of such a structure is well exhibited , on a relatively enormous scale on the inner surface of a cake of solidifying

