III .
" On certain Points in the Theory of the Magneto-electric Machines of Wilde , Wheatstone , and Siemens .
" By C. F.VARLEY , E.sq .
In a Letter to Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received February 26 , 1867 .
Fleetwood House , Beckenham , S.E. , February 23 , 1867 .
MY DEAR SIR , -Professor Wheatstone showed that a shunt put into the circuit of the electromagnet increased the power greatly , but the explanation that it increased the power by equalizing the resistance of the armature and that of the electromagnet is either wholly incorrect , or very nearly so .
Yesterday I had an opportunity afforded me by Mr. C. Siemens of experimenting with his machine , in which the electromagnets have each a resistance of about 250 Ohms 500 Ohms , the armature 400 Ohms .
On adding a shunt to the electromagnet the flame was greatly increased .
The two electromagnets when connected in series had a resistance of about 500 Ohms .
I then connected them in a double circuit , the resistance in this case being about 125 Ohms .
By this means the same result as regards resistance could be obtained as by a shunt , with the difference that the power expended in the shunt is lost in heat ; while reducing the resistance by the double circuit caused the whole force to be expended on the electromagnet .
The results of the experiment were 1st .
The shunt invariably increased the power .
2ndly .
When the magnets were joined in double circuit the power was greatly reduced .
The explanation is to me obvious .
In a Ruhmkorff 's coil , where the iron core is divided into fine wire , so that the dying magnetism cannot set up currents in the iron core to prolong its existence , the magnetism is very rapidly lost , and the make-and-break hammer works very rapidly , sometimes as fast as sixty beats per second .
If the secondary circuit be closed so that the currents can flow , the makeand-break hammer works very slowly , indeed one or two beats per second ; and in 1856 I published a description of electromagnets whose action was very slow , and which were rendered sluggish by a copper cylinder around them .
Wilde 's armature , when revolving , sends intermittent currents around the electromagnet , whose circuit is broken at every half revolution of the armature .
Were the magnets composed of fine iron wire , the magnetism would die away rapidly , producing a violent current by its efforts to maintain itself , as in the Ruhmkorff 's coils .
( This current is called by foreigners the extra-current .
) The shunt which Wheatstone inserted carries this current across , and so uaaintains the magnetism of the electromagnets until the armature gives a 403 second impulse .
The current in this shunt will be found to travel in alternate directions ; not so that on the electromagnet .
When the armature is discharging its current into the electromagnets , the current in the shunt is in the direction it would have if the shunt were in circuit solely with the armature .
When the armature is changing poles and is disconnected , the secondary current is in full play , and the current in the shunt is in the direction of the current prolonged in the electromagnet , that is , of the extra current .
The force expended in the shunt is wasted in heat ; but a secondary wire on the electromagnet or a copper cylinder would very greatly add to the power by maintaining the magnetism , and not consume uselessly the force now wasted in the shunt .
The overlapping of the armature and the solid mass of the electromagnets tends to maintain imperfectly the magnetism during the intervals of no current from the armature ; and but for this the machines , whether they be Wilde 's , Wheatstone 's , or Siemens 's , would none of them work .
In 1860 I published a description of two machines I had constructed , and in 1862 , at the Universal Exhibition , I exhibited a machine for adding mechanical force to static electricity without friction .
A machine similar in principle , but a little different in construction , has been exhibited recently under the name of HIoltz .
One of my machines bears to the other precisely the same relation that Siemens 's or Wheatstone 's does to Wilde 's .
If these be of sufficient interest to the Royal Society , I shall be happy to exhibit them .
I am , my dear Sir , Very truly yours , C. F. VARLEY .

