December 7 , 1848 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
The Rev. James Challis , George Bishop , Esq. , Captain Clerk , R.A. were admitted into the Society .
The Marquis of Northampton gave notice that 1His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury would be proposed at the next Meeting for election and for immediate ballot , to which , as a Spiritual Peer of the Realm , His Grace is entitled .
Dr. Faraday then delivered the Bakerian Lecture , illustrative of his paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity .
Twentysecond Series .
ยง 28 .
On the Crystalline Polarity of Bismuth and other bodies , and on its relation to the magnetic form of force .
" In this paper the author states that in preparing small cylinders of bismuth by casting them in glass tubes , he had often been embarrassed by the anomalous magnetic results which they gave , and that having determined to investigate the matter closely , it ended in a reference of the effects to the crystalline condition of the bismuth , which may be thus briefly stated .
If bismuth be crystallized in the ordinary way , and then a crystal , or a group of symmetric crystals , be selected and suspended in the magnetic field between horizontal poles , it immediately either points in a given direction , or vibrates about a given position , as a small magnetic needle would do , and if disturbed from this position it returns to it .
On re-suspending the crystal so that the horizontal line which is transverse to the magnetic axis shall become the vertical line , the crystal then points with its maximum degree of force .
If it be again re-suspended so that the line parallel to the magnetic axis be rendered vertical , the crystal loses all directive force .
This line of direction , therefore , which tends to place itself parallel to the magnetic axis , the author calls the Magnecrystallic axis of the crystal .
It is perpendicular , or nearly so , to the brightest and most perfect of the four cleavage planes of the crystal .
It is the same for all crystals of bismuth .
Whether this magnecrystallic axis is parallel or transverse to the magnetic axis , the bismuth is in both cases repelled from a single , or the stronger of two poles ; its diamagnetic relations being in no way affected .
If the crystal be broken up , or if it be fused and resolidified , and the metal then subjected to the action of the magnet , the diamagnetic phenomena remain , but the magnecrystallic results disappear , because of the confused and opposing crystalline condition of the various parts .
If an ingot of bismuth be broken up and fragmentary plates selected which are crystallized uniformly throughout , these also point ; the magnecrystallic axis being , as before , perpendicular to the chief plane of cleavage , and the external form , in this respect , of no consequence .
The effect takes place when the crystal is surrounded by masses of bismuth , or when it is immersed in water , or in a solution of sulphate of iron , and with as much force , apparently , as if nothing intervened .
The position of the crystal in the magnetic field is affected by the approximation of extra magnets , or of soft iron ; but the author does not believe that this results from any attractive or repulsive force exerted on the bismuth , but only from the disturbance of the lines of force or resultants of magnetic action , by which they acquire as it were new directions ; and , as the law of action which he gives , is , that the line or axis of magnecrystallic force tends to place itself parallel , or as a tangent , to the magnetic curve or line of magnetic force , passing through the place where the crystal is situated , so the crystal changes its position with any change of direction in these lines .
A common horse-shoe magnet exhibits these phenomena very well : the author worked much with one lifting 301bs .
by the keeper ; but one that can raise a pound or two only , is sufficient for many of the actions .
When using the electro-magnet , the advantage of employing poles with large plane opposed faces is mentioned as being considerable , for then diamagnetic phenomena are almost or entirely avoided and the peculiar magnecrystallic relations then appear .
The peculiar force exerted in these phenomena is not either attractive or repulsive , but has for its distinctive character the tendency to place the crystal in a definite position or direction .
The author further distinguishes it from that described by M. Plficker in his interesting memoir upon the repulsion of the optic axes of crystals by the poles of a magnet % , in that , that is an equatorial force , whereas this is an axial force .
Crystals of antimony were then submitted to a similar magnetic examination , and with the same results .
But there were also certain other effects produced of arrest and revulsion , the same in kind as those described in a former series of the 'Experimental Researches ' ( par .
2309 , &amp;c. ) ; these are wrought out and eliminated , and the re .
sults described .
Arsenic also proved to be a body capable of pointing in the magnetic field , like bismuth and antimony .
The paper describing the foregoing results is dated 23rd of September , 1848 .
In a later paper of the date of 20th October , 1848 , the author continues his researches .
Native crystals of iridium and osmium , and also crystallized titanium and tellurium , appeared to be magnecrystallic : crystals of zinc , copper , tin , lead , gold , gave no signs of this condition .
Crystals of sulphate of iron are very strongly affected by the magnet according to this new condition , and the magnecrystallic axis is perpendicular to two of the planes of the rhomboidal prism ; so that when a long crystal is employed , it will not , as a mass , point between the poles , but across the line joining them .
On the other hand , the sulphate of nickel has its magnecrystallic axis parallel , or nearly so , to the length of the ordinary prism .
Hence bodies , both magnetic and diamagnetic , are , by their crystalline condition , subject to the magnetic force , according to the law already laid down .
Diamond , rock-salt , fluor spar , boracite , red X Poggendorff 's Annalen , lxxii .
Oct. 1847 ; or Taylor 's Scientific Memoirs , vol. v. p. 353 .
oxide of copper , oxide of tin , cinnabar , galena , and many other bodies , presented no evidence of the magnecrystallic condition .
The author then enters upon a consideration of the nature of the magnecrystallic force .
In the first place he examines closely whether a crystal of bismuth has exactly the same amount of repulsion , diamagnetic or other , when presenting its magnecrystallic axis parallel or transverse to the lines of magnetic force acting on it .
For this purpose the crystal was suspended either from a torsion balance , or as a pendulum thirty feet in length ; but whatever the position of the magnecrystallic axis , the amount of repulsion was the same .
In other experiments a vertical axis was constructed of cocoon silk , and the body to be examined was attached at right angles to it as radius ; a prismatic crystal of sulphate of iron , for instance , whose length was four times its breadth , was fixed on the axis with its length as radius and its magnecrystallic axis horizontal , and therefore as tangent ; then , when this crystal was at rest under the torsion force of the silken axis , an electro-magnetic pole was so placed , that the axial line of magnetic force should be , when exerted , oblique to both the length and the magnecrystallic axis of the crystal ; and the consequence was , that , when the electric current circulated round the magnet , the crystal actually receded from the magnet under the influence of the force , which tended to place the magnecrystallic axis and the magnetic axis parallel .
Employing a crystal or plate of bismuth , that body could be made to approach the magnetic pole under the influence of the magnecrystallic force ; and this force is so strong as to counteract either the tendency of the magnetic body to approach , or of the diamagnetic body to retreat , when it is exerted in the contrary direction .
Hence the author concludes that it is neither attraction nor repulsion which causes the set , or determines the final position of a magnecrystallic body .
He next considers it as a force dependent upon the crystalline condition of the body , and therefore associated with the original molecular forces of the matter .
He shows experimentally , that , as the magnet can move a crystal , 'so also a crystal can move a magnet .
Also , that heat takes away this power just before the crystal fuses , and that cooling restores it in its original direction .
He next considers whether the effects are due to a force altogether original and inherent in the crystal , or whether that which appears in it , is not partly induced by the magnetic and electric forces ; and he concludes , that the force manifested in the magnetic field , which appears by external actions and causes the motion of the mass , is chiefly , and almost entirely induced , in a manner subject indeed to the crystalline force and additive to it , but at the same time exalting the force and the effects to a degree which they could not have approached without the induction .
To this part of the force he applies the word magneto-crystallic , in contradistinction to the word magnecrystallic , which is employed to express the condition , or quality , or power , which belongs essentially to the crystal .
The author then remarks upon the extraordinary character of the power , which he cannot refer to polarity ; and gives expression to certain considerations and views which will be best learned from the paper itself .
After this , he resumes the consideration of Pliicker 's results " upon the repulsion of the optic axes of crystals " already referred to , and arrives at the conclusion that his results and those now described have one common origin and cause .
He then considers Pliicker 's results in relation to those which he formerly obtained with heavy optical glass and many other bodies .
In conclusion he remarks , " How rapidly the knowledge of molecular forces grows upon us , and how strikingly every investigation tends to develope more and more their importance and their extreme attraction as an object of study !
A few years ago magnetism was to us an occult power affecting only a few bodies ; now it is found to influence all bodies , and to possess the most intimate relations with electricity , heat , chemical action , light , crystallization , and , through it , with the forces concerned in cohesion ; and we may , in the present state of things , well feel urged to continue in our labours , encouraged by the hope of bringing it into a bond of union with gravity itself .
"

