On a new detonating Compound : in a Letter from Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read November 5 , 1812 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 1 .
] The present account is intended as a caution to others against the dangerous effects of the very explosive detonation , by which the author has himself been a sufferer .
His attention was first directed to the subject by a letter received from France , mentioning that about twelve months since , a compound had been discovered of azote with chlorine , which appears in the form of an oil heavier than water , and which explodes , by a gentle heat , with all the violence of the fulminating metals .
The letter adds , that this discovery cost the operator an eye and a finger .
Since the letter contained no account of the mode of preparing the compound , and as none could be found in any of the French journals , Sir Humphry Davy pursued a hint given him by Mr. Children , who informed him that his friend Mr. Burton had , in the month of July last , observed the formation of a volatile oily substance in a solution of nitrate of ammonia , exposed to chlorine in the state of gas .
In repeating the experiment , the author perceived first an oily film on the surface of the fluid , which gradually collected into small globules , and fell to the bottom .
One of these globules being taken out while floating on the surface of the water , and slightly warmed , exploded with brilliant light , but without any violence of detonation .
In a series of experiments carried on jointly with Mr. Children and Mr. Warburton , other ammoniacal solutions were substituted , and it was found that the same product was obtained by means of oxalate of ammonia , or by a weak solution of pure ammonia .
The first instance that occurred of violent explosion , was in their endeavours to form larger quantities in a Wolfe 's apparatus , by a series of bottles containing the different solutions .
Ihe heat generated by the union of ammoniacal vapour and chlosdine , caused the destruction of the whole apparatus by an instantaneous explosion .
From this time their attempts to form the oil were confined to small phials of the gas , and their trials of its properties were limited to a quantity not greater than a grain of mustard-seed ; but still the results were attended with danger .
In attempting to collect the gas produced in its explosion , by heating a very small quantity under water in a curved tube , the tube was shattered with great violence , and the author received a wound in the transparent cornea of one eye , from which he has not yet recovered .
Explosions equally violent were afterwards witnessed by Mr. Children and Mr. Warburton , even without confinement : when a small globule of the oil was thrown into a glass of olive oil , oil of turpentine , or naphtha , the glass , though strong , was in each instance shivered to pieces .
When a globule larger than a grain of mustard-seed was touched under water by phosphorus , the explosion was so violent as to break any glass vessel in which the experiment was made .
But when smaller quantities were employed , a gas could be collected which , by the experiments hitherto made , contains no oxygen and no inflammable gas .
When thrown into the solutions of phosphorus , in ether , or alcohol , it detonates most violently ; but neither ether nor alcohol alone exhibit any violence in their action upon it .
In muriatic acid it gives off gas rapidly , and disappears without explosion .
Various experiments were also instituted with other substances , as sulphur and resin , among others , but without any remarkable effects .
From the general tenor of these experiments , the author thinks it probable that the substance here examined is a compolnd of azote and chlorine , formed by the decomposition of ammonia ; while the hydrogen of the ammonia unites with another portion of chlorine , aLnd forms muriatic acid .
The heat and light produced during the expansion of this oil into gaseous matter , is considered by the author to be without a parallel in our present collection of chemical facts ; and the suddenness of the explosion more instantaneous than that of any compound hitherto known .

