A paper was read , entitled , " On a General Method in Dynamics , by which the Study of the Motions of all free Systems of attracting or repelling Points is reduced to the Search antl Differenciation of one central Relation , or characteristic Function .
" By Wiliiam Rowan Ha ?
milton , Esq. , Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin , and Royal Astronomer of Ireland .
Communicated by Cap ?
tain Beaufort , R.N. , F.R.S. After some introductory remarks illustrative of the scope and de ?
sign of this paper , the object of which is sufficiently pointed out in its title , the author considers , 1st , the integration of the equations of motion of a system , the characteristic function of such motion , and the law of varying action ; 2nd , the verification of the foregoing integrals ; 3rd , the introduction of relative or polar co-ordinates , or other marks of position of a system ; 4th , the separation of the relative motion of a system from the motion of its centre of gravity , the characteristic function for such relative motion , and the law of its variation ; 5th , the systems of two points in general , and the characteristic function of the motion of any binary system ; Cth , the undisturbed motion of a planet or comet about the sun , and the dependence of the character ?
istic function of elliptic or parabolic motion on the chord and the sum of the radii ; 7th , the systems of three points in general , and their characteristic functions ยง 8th , a general method of improving an approximate expression for the characteristic function of motion of a system , in any dynamical problem ; 9th , the application of the fore ?
going method to the case of a ternary or multiple system , with any laws of attraction or repulsion , and with one predominant mass 5 10th , the rigorous transition from the theory of binary to that of mul ?
tiple systems , by means of the disturbing part of the whole charac ?
teristic function , and approximate expressions for the perturbations .

