500 Mr. C. Creighton the Suprarenal [ Dec. 6 , a minute or two fallen with a well-marked " water-hammer " click .
No gauge was attached to the pump .
We do not , of course , regard such a vacuum as perfect ; but it was sufficient for our purpose , and , as regards the Pasteur solution , proved fatal to the contained organisms .
In the experiment of which Obs. 3 is here given as an example we observe , on the one hand , the prevention of bacterial development and consequent growth of mycelial forms ( the quantity of light being insufficient for the destruction of these ) in those tubes which were insolated in the presence of ordinary atmospheric air .
On the other hand we see specimens of the same urine insolated to precisely the same degree as the former , but , in the absence of an atmosphere , becoming turbid , even in vacuo , with Bacteria as early as their encased congeners .
This remarkable fact , then , appears to follow as a deduction , that a vacuum ( or approximation to such ) which of itself is a condition antagonistic to the development of Bacteria , nevertheless shields these organisms from the germicidal effect of light * .
It is not our present purpose to speculate on the interpretation of the phenomena here presented , nor should we be justified in so doing until we have further extended our observations , and more fully confirmed the curious results here provisionally detailed .
IY .
" Points of Resemblance between the Suprarenal Bodies of the Horse and Dog , and certain occasional Structures in the OvaryBy Charles Creighton , M.B. , Demonstrator of Anatomy , Cambridge University .
Communicated by Professor Humphry , F.R.S. Received October 18 ( Abstract .
) The object of this communication is to prove , with the aid of accurate drawings , that there exists an essential resemblance between the constituent parts of the suprarenal bodies of mammals and certain structures in the mammalian ovary that are of occasional but normal occurrence .
The appearances on which the comparison is based are best seen in the suprarenals of the dog and horse , and in the ovaries of the bitch .
The suprarenals of the horse and dog are known to have , immediately under the fibrous tunic , a zone of follicles of singular though well-defined structure .
The first point in the communication is one of criticism , and has reference to the division of parts within the suprarenal .
It is held that the outer zone of follicles , as they are seen in the horse and dog , are quite unique among the structures composing the suprarenal , and are broadly contrasted with the rest of the organ lying internal to them .
The contrast is unmistakable in these two animals , and it is equally * We wish , however , to make it clear that we by no means insist on this explanation ; the facts , indeed , admit of other explanations .
1877 .
] Bodies of the Horse and Dog .
501 well-marked in the foetal state of the organ in other mammals .
In opposition , therefore , to the usual subdivision of parts , it is proposed to limit the term \#163 ; \lt ; cortex to the extreme outer zone consisting of the peculiar structures above-mentioned , and to apply the term " medulla " to the general mass or parenchyma of the organ which the outer zone covers , including in the medulla the extreme central and generally pigmented part to which the term " medulles " has been hitherto limited .
This proposed rearrangement of terms is based upon the fact that the outer zone has no continuity of structure with the zones next to it ; whereas the extreme central part differs from the neighbouring parenchyma in unessential particulars , and chiefly in the character of the blood-vessels or blood-spaces within it .
\#166 ; The comparison with structures in the ovary is based upon the above radical distinction of cortex and general parenchyma in the suprarenals , and is worked out in two sections dealing with the two parts respectively .
The structures in the ovary to which the cortical follicles are compared are here described for the first time , and the discovery of them , and of their nature , has been the starting-point of the present investigation .
They are the remains of Graafian follicles within which the ovum , after reaching a degree of ripeness , has shrivelled up and disappeared .
The appearances in question are numerous in the ovaries of the bitch , especially towards old age .
Their structure is perfectly definite and their occurrence tolerably uniform .
They are spoken of as obsolete Graafian follicles , and are to be carefully distinguished from those Graafian follicles from which a ripe ovum has been successfully discharged .
The ovarian structures to which the general parenchymatous mass of the suprarenal is compared are persistent corpora , entirely solid and cellular .
This part of the comparison occupies the second section of the paper , and the details of it are referred to at the end of the abstract .
Coming to the details of his comparison , the author first states the facts relating to the cortical suprarenal structures .
Their form , especially in the horse , appears different in the surface section and in the perpendicular section .
But , premising that the same differences of shape occur among the corresponding appearances in the ovary , they may be taken to be essentially elongated closed cylinders , straight , or curved , or tortuous , or doubled up .
The cylinders are completely filled with long and narrow epithelial-like cells arranged in close order across their lumen , i. e. at right angles to their long axis .
Each cell stretches across , generally speaking , the whole width of the cylindrical space ; the nucleus of a cell is generally towards one end , and the other end is often pointed .
Cells appear alternately to arise from opposite sides of the space , their pointed or relatively free extremities interlocking among the nuclear or basal ends of the cells opposite .
VOL. XXVI .
2 N 502 Mr. C. Creighton on the Suprarenal [ Dec. 6 , The same appearances are produced in the ovary in the following way .
The Graafian follicle may be in a more or less advanced stage of ripeness .
Either the membrana granulosa may closely invest the ovum , or it may be separated from the ovum ( within its cumulus by the cavity for the liquor folliculi .
In the former class of cases , the membrana granulosa has a short circuit , in the latter it has a very much longer circumference .
Within a follicle of either class the ovum decays , and the remains of it are expelled or absorbed .
The circuit of the membrana granulosa has been broken , and the circular belt of cells is found either to have straightened itself out , if it were of small extent , or to have become folded or thrown into sinuosities if it belonged to one of the more distended or riper class of follicles .
What remains of the aborted Graafian follicle is the membrana gran , in the form of a longer or shorter cylindrical body , straight , or slightly curved , or sinuous , or doubled up .
These long , narrow , and variously curved cylinders , as they are found , in their ultimate state of quiescence , in the substance of the ovary , have the most remarkable superficial resemblance to the cortical cylinders of the suprarenal .
But the resemblance in minute structure is still more remarkable .
While the ovum was shrivelling up or decaying , .the round and nuclear cells of the membrana granulosa were taking the shape of long and narrow columnar epithelial cells , stretching from one side of the belt to the other .
These cells have their nucleus towards one end , and the cell is seated by that end either upon the outer or concave circumference of the belt , or upon the opposite convex or inner circumference , the two sets of cells interlocking with their free ends across the space .
Comparing a given length of such ovarian cylinder with a corresponding length of cylinder in the suprarenal , the minute points of resemblance are as follows:\#151 ; Both cylinders are completely filled with cells packed in close order across their long axisthe cells have precisely the same length and breadth , the same relation of attached ends and free ends , the former uniformly broad and containing the nucleus , and the latter pointed and interlocking with the attached end opposite .
As regards cell-substance , and size and shape of nucleus , no differences are discernible .
The structures from two different organs , that are here brought into comparison , not only resemble one another closely , but they are each of them unlike any thing else in the body .
The origin of the structures in the ovary can be traced in the clearest manner ; they are the remains of Graafian follicles within which the ovum has aborted or decayed .
The conclusion is that the cortical structures of the suprarenal are the obsolete condition of follicles that , in their active period , resembled the existing Graafian follicles ; and that conclusion is so far in accordance with the hypothesis , based upon independent evidence , that the suprarenal body as a whole ( and in its several parts ) is an obsolete organ .
In the suprarenals of other mammals besides the dog and horse , the 1877 .
] Bodies of the Horse and .
503 structure of the cortical zone is not of a kind to suggest or to bear out the above comparison .
But , according to Henle , the peculiar structures of the horse and dog are occasionally found in other mammals .
An occasional reappearance is what might be looked for in an obsolete structure .
But , exact similarity apart , there is in the suprarenals of all mammals a zona glomemlosa , which corresponds to the cortical zone above described ; and the zona glomerulos , being subject only to laws of heredity , and not to laws of function , may be considered in most mammals to have lost those distinctive features which survive , for unexplained reasons , in the dog and horse .
Again , as regards the parallel structures in the ovary , they are seen clearly in the bitch , are indistinctly seen in the cat , and are not to be distinguished in the mare .
But those differences are not fatal to the generalization , and explanations are offered of them .
In the second section of the paper the author describes the resemblance of the general intracortical mass of the suprarenal to another class of ovarian structures , viz. corpora lutea .
The corpora lutea here spoken of are large cellular masses of very definite and stable structure , occurring at various points in the ovary , and in some cases of so great extent as to transform the ovary into an organ of altogether new appearance .
Instances are referred to of ovaries from the mare and bitch in which corpora lutea seemed to have greater persistence than is usually attributed to them , and it is held that the prevalent theory of the circumstances of their formation and decay is not comprehensive enough .
Taking , however , the corpora lutea as they are found , and directing attention to their minute structure , they have the following points of resemblance to the intracortical mass of the suprarenal .
Both structures are cellular throughout , and the individual cells are the same .
The eells are epithelial-like and polyhedric , with a central nucleus and a wide zone of cell-substance .
The cell-substance in both cases is so coarsely granular as often to resemble the vitellus of the mammalian ovum , and in both cases the granular protoplasm is sometimes replaced or occupied by a vacuole .
The one point of difference is that the cells of the corpus luteum are half as large again as those of the suprarenal paren-| chyma .
The second point is that the cells in both cases are set in a fine meshwork of fibres connected with the walls of the capillaries .
Thirdly , I there is , in both , the same radial arrangement of blood-vessels ( capil-j , laries ) from centre to circumference .
Fourthly , the central vein or | system of venous lacunae of the suprarenal has its counterpart in the \#166 ; corpus luteum .
Lastly , there are points of resemblance relating to the | pigmentation of the respective structures .
Although it is not essential to the justice of the comparison that the m obsolete Graafian follicles should have the same position round the cir-1 cumference of corpora lutea which the cortical suprarenal follicles have 2k 2 504 Dr* E. J. Mills on Electrostriction .
[ Dec. 13 , round the parenchyma of that organ , yet there is to be seen in many preparations a curious similarity in that respect also .
The present communication does not go beyond a statement of points of resemblance .
The corpus luteum , which enters so largely into the comparison , is itself as much an unsolved problem as the suprarenal .
It may be said , however , to afford better opportunities of study ; and if the resemblance above outlined be a resemblance in essentials , a sound theory of the suprarenal as a whole will probably be found to depend upon a sound theory of the corpus luteum .
December 13 , 1877 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Among the Presents was a transparent positive photograph of the sun on glass , taken at Meudon by M. Janssen , For .
Mem. R.S. , and presented by him to the Society .
Pursuant to notice given at the last Meeting , Marcellin Berthelot , Joseph Decaisne , Emil Du Bois-Reymond , Adolph Wilhelm Hermann Kolbe , Rudolph Leuckart , Simon Newcomb , and Pafnutij Tschebytschew were balloted for and elected Foreign Members of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Electrostriction .
" By Edmund J. Mills , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , " Young " Professor of Technical Chemistry in Anderson 's College , Glasgow .
Received August 7 , 1877 .
If the bulb of an ordinary thermometer be coated chemically with silver , and then electrically with a metallic deposit , the mercury will traverse some portion of the scale , and finally take up a definite position , independently of temperature .
To this phenomenon I have given the name electrostriction .
Of the metals hitherto worked with , copper , silver , iron , and nickel constrict the bulb ; zinc and cadmium distend it .
The general conditions under which the experiments were made were as follow:\#151 ; A thermometer coated with silver by immersion in a solution of ammoniacal argentic tartrate was placed vertically near a bare thermometer at one side of a depositing cell ; the anode stood at a distance of 11 centimetres .
The bulbs of the thermometers were about their own depth below the surface of the electrolyte ; the covered one was turned half round at every comparison .
The source of electricity was a pint

