2 .
" On the Respiratory Organs of the Common Leech ( Hirudo qfficinalis , Linn. ) , and their Connexions with the Circulatory System .
" By George Newport , Esq. Communicated by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The stomach of the leech has been hitherto described as a large elongated sac , simply divided into ten compartments by perforated membranous partitions : but the author , by a more accurate exami ?
nation , finds that each portion of that organ is expanded into two lateral caeca , which increase both in size and in length as they are traced along the canal towards the pylorus .
The caeca belonging to the tenth cavity are the longest , extending as far as the anus , and have themselves four constrictions : the cavity itself terminates in a funnel-shaped pylorus .
When the posterior end of the animal is cut off , the caecal portions of the stomach are laid open , and the blood which it receives flows out freely , as fast as it is swallowed ; and hence the leech , under these circumstances , continues to suck for an indefinite time .
The respiratory organs consist of two series of pulmonary sacs , are ?
ranged along the under side of the body , on each side of the nervous cords and ganglia .
They each open upon the surface of the body by a very minute but distinctly valvular orifice .
The membrane which lines them appears to be continuous with the cuticle , and is exceedingly delicate and highly vascular , receiving the blood , for the purpose of its being aerated , from the veins of the system .
The blood is re ?
turned from these sacs into the lateral serpentine vessels by vessels of a peculiar construction , passing transversely , and forming loops , which are situated between the caeca of the stomach , and which are studded by an immense number of small rounded bodies closely congregated together , and bearing a great resemblance to the structure of the venae cavae of the cephalopodous Mollusca .
The purpose answered by this structure is involved in much obscurity : the author offers a conjecture that they may be analogous in their office to the mesenteric glands of the higher animals .
With a view to determine some circumstances relating to the mode of the respiration of the leech , the author made some experiments , by confining the animal in water deprived of air by boiling .
After some time the leech was observed to give out bubbles of air ; **nd the watet of the vessel , when tested by lime-water , indicated the presence of carbonic acid . ?
The paper is accompanied by drawings of the structures described .

