On the necessary Truth of certain Conclusions obtained by Means of Imaginary Quantities .
By Robert Woodhouse , A.M. Fellow of Caius College .
Communicated by the Rev. S. Vince , A.M. Plumian Professor of Astronomy in the University of Cambridge .
Read January 8 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 89 .
] The object of this paper is to show , that we may be assured of the justness and accuracy of conclusions obtained by means of imaginary quantities , without verifying such conclusions by separate investigations , or without inferring their truth from analogy .
In the first part the author premises at some length certain arguments , to show that the operations with impossible quantities must have a logic equally strict and certain with the logic that appertains to real quantities , and that the aid obtained by these quantities would be perfectly useless if such conclusions rested only on the frail basis of analogy .
The author proceeds next to show that operations with imaginary quantities are by no means mechanical , but that they are conducted according to the rules of strict and rigorous logic ; and that , although strictly speaking no proposition concerning them can be true or false , yet , after the demonstrations of certain formulae for real quantities , demonstrations with impossible quantities may be legitimately and logically conducted .
The series , for instance , for the development of an exponential , when the exponent is an impossible quantity , can never , independently of certain arbitrary assumptions , be duly established ; and yet , when the exponent is the sign of a real quantity , the formula for the development may be rigorously proved .
With regard to demonstration , it is shown , as in the case of real quantities , it actually proceeds by a series of transformation , each proved to be the same as the foregoing , not by any arguments grounded on the properties of real quantities , but by reference to the forms certain abridged symbols are made to represent , and to the nature of the operations directed to be performed with certain signs .
After thus establishing the principle by which operations with imaginary characters are regulated , the author shows its efficacy and the use of imaginary characters in the summation of series , proceeding according to the powers of the series and cosines of arcs in arithmetical progression .
He likewise shows , that according to his mode of explanation , certain ambiguous expressions that occur in analysis are perfectly intelligible , and that in the controversy concerning the logarithms of negative quantities , carried on formerly between Leibnitz , Bernoulli , Euler , and Dalembert , all paradox and ambiguity may be made to disappear , by referring to the origin and real import of the impossible exponential quantities .
Although the principal object of this paper is to vindicate the indubitable justness of the operation conducted with imaginary characters , yet in the latter part some arguments are likewise offered in favour of the commodiousness of imaginary expressions for facilitating calculations .
And , lastly , it is contended , that in the present state of analysis , these expressions are particularly useful in deducing certain conclusions , which without their aid could not be obtained without much difficulty .

