On the Office of the Heart Wood of Trees..By T. A. Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to the Right Ilon .
Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read February 5 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1818 , p. 137 .
] As all trees that afford timber live many years before their alburnum becomes converted into heart wood , it does not seem probable that that substance should execute any important office in the vegetable .
Mr. Knight , however , is not disposed to coincide in opinion with some writers , who consider the heart wood as a wholly lifeless substance ; and he now thinks that , in common with the alburnum and bark , it becomes a winter reservoir of that organizable matter which the tree expends in its vernal germination ; that every species of tree and perennial plant contains within itself during winter all the matter employed in forming its early foliage and shoots ; and that it is owing to the presence or absence of such reservoir that the lives of plants become annual , biennial , and perennial .
The annual wholly exhausts itself in feeding its flowers and seeds , it forms no reservoir , and therefore perishes .
A biennial fills its reservoir in one season , and exhausts it in the following .
In the tree , as in the biennial , part of the sap descends in the spring to form roots , and part ascends to produce buds , but it also forms a new layer of bark upon the whole surface of its alburnum .
The alburnum and bark of trees not appearing to Mr. Knight to contain as much organizable matter as appeared thus expended , and observing much soluble matter in the heart wood , he was led to examine the relative quantity of fluid in them .
He found that in a vigorous oak , 40 years old , 1000 parts of alburnum gave , in December , 469 , and of the heart wood 500 .
The experiment was repeated upon similar pieces of the same tree in April , and 1000 of alburnum lost 532 , and 1000 of heart wood 507 .
In a poplar 80 years old , 1000 of alburnum in December lost 535 , and heart wood 626 : in March the loss was 557 , and 684 .
This abundance of fluid in the heart wood was first observed by M. Coulomb , who regarded it as ascending from the earth ; and concluded that the sap of trees chiefly passes up near the medulla , through the heart wood .
Mr. Knight considers this conclusion erroneous ; for when he divided the alburnum of an oak tree in winter , there was no life in the part above the wound in the ensuing spring ; and in June the leaves faded rapidly after a similar experiment .
These and other considerations induce Mr. Knight to reject the hypotheses which assume the ascent of the sap through the heart wood , and lead him to believe that the fluid which affords the organizable matter required for the annual conversion of alburnum into heart wood is derived from the bark , and that it passes inwards during the latter part of the summer and autumn through the convergent cellular processes , to return in part through the same passages , when a new layer of bark is to be formed in the spring .

