]\gt ; [ 307 ] istril)ofLight in the Solar Corona on Augu .
as .
from Photographs taken af -es-Senam , Tunisia .
L. BECKER , Ph. D. , Professor of Astronomy in the University of by the JOINT PERMANENT cLIPSE COMMITTEE .
Received November 27 , 1906 , \mdash ; Read June 6 , \mdash ; Revised August , 1907 .
[ PLATE 1 .
] ONTENTS .
Section : .
Page 1 .
The apparatus . . . . . . . . .
307 2 .
The photographs . . . . .
311 3 .
The measureme1lts . . . . .
312 4 .
Reductions . . . . .
313 5 .
Correlative distances . . . . .
316 6 .
Photographs .
and . . . . . .
319 7 .
Intensity formula . . . . . .
321 8 .
Formula and position-angle . . . . .
328 9 .
Number of particles and intensity of light 329 10 .
Plea for repetition of observations . . .
331 Appendix I.\mdash ; Diffraction due to screcns . . .
332 II.\mdash ; Comparison of corona moon 336 Tables V. . . .
337 Table I. , S4 SS7 and 8 contain the results derived from the measurements made on the photographs , viz. , equal-intensity cnrves of the corona and a formula ( D ) expressing the intensity of the orona as function of the distance from the solar limb of an equal-intensity curve .
S1 .
The Apparatus .
The object of my expedition to Kalaa-es-Senam , Tunisia , was to obtain a series of photographs from which might be determined the distribution of light in the corona .
In designing my apparatus , I was led by two considerations : ( 1 ) the photographs had to be taken automatically , as I had to work without assistance , ( 2 ) standardising of the photographs was to be avoided .
All the photographs were therefore taken on the two halves of a whole plate placed end to end and developed in the same tray during the same time .
The automatic apparatus gives 10 exposures , and it is governed electrically by a pendulum clock .
I employed two camel.as , one with a ( 420 .
) 19.12.07 LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA UST 30 , 1905 .
glasses , and when the armature is released the shutter again 45 ) far as one of the stops , and shuts off the light .
The contacts are made by a pendulum clock , and they are so devised that make or break can occur only when the pendulum is at or near its position of rest .
I arranged for five exposures each of 1 second duration , and five exposures respectively 3 , 9 , 20 , 46 and 89 seconds .
Their actual durations are and seconds , as determined automatically on the chronograph at the Observatory after my return from the eclipse expedition .
I have deducted second from the figures recorded on the chronograph to allow for the peculiar motion of the shutter .
At the first four exposures of 1 second , different screens , each with 13 holes , are in front of the object-glass .
The diameters of the openings are respectively inch .
At the first exposure the screen leaves of the object-glass free , at the second , at the third , and at the fourth .
These screens are geared to the clockwork which rotates the shutter and fall out of gear after the fourth exposure .
The illustration shows them out of gear .
The plate-holder ( C ) of the Cooke camera is 17 inches ; it slides lengthways inside a metal box 32 inches .
It is moved by rack and pinion , the rack attached to the plate-holder , and the bearings of the axle of the pinion to the of the box .
Spring-driven clockwork ( B ) communicates its motion by means of a shaft to the pinion .
The clockwork is governed ( at b ) by the armature of an electro-magnet ( the armature and the revolving stop with its axle appear white in fig. 1 ) .
When the armature is attracted , the plate-holder moves 1 inch onwards , when it is released it moves another inch .
The necessary contacts are made by the pendulum clock .
I arranged the contacts in such a way that for the first four exposures the plate moves one step onwards , for all the others two steps , and when the plate has been pushed along , 2 seconds are allowed for the camera to settle before the next exposure is made .
Of the 206 seconds for which I made provision , 173 seconds are occupied by the exposures , 15 seconds are taken up by changing of plates , and 18 seconds are lost .
The pendulum clock is shown at A. It is provided with four circular steel-sheet discs , into which notches are cut .
axle which carries the discs has a period of 240 seconds , , about half a minute more than totality lasted .
Two of the discs are represented in the diagram , fig. 2 , which also shows the contact levers .
The diagram gives the position immediately before making ofcontact .
At the next second will fall on , making contact at , and after another second will fall away from , thus breaking the contact .
The duration of contacts depends slightly on the position of the notches , as will be seen from the figures given above for a second 's contact , which show a range of second .
BLUE-VIOLET IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
S2 .
( Plate 1 ) .
The ldulum was started about a secolld after Mr. H. MAVOB , who watched the contact , gave the signal that totality had begun .
Before the last ] ) osure was finished sunlight appeared , but I shut it off by stepping in front of object-glass , and it was about 3 seconds before the shutter automatically clossd .
That is to say , totality lasted about 1207-3 seconds , as compared with the calculated time of 210 seconds .
Accordingly , the tenth exposure lasted about 43 seconds .
The plates ( two halves of a whole plate ) were developed together in the same tray by a strong developer ( Imperial standard ) for 7 minutes .
I developed at the opeIl window at star-light , keeping the plates covered most of the time .
The photographs stlow a great deal of contrast , and this has proved an advantage in measuring them .
The background of he long-exposed negatives is dense , due to the brightness of the sky .
This diffused light , whose intensity I had underrated in the design of the apparatus , producsd an impression even for the shortest exposures , darkening a square on the plate equal in size to the opening in the plate-holder .
I find , from measurements , that the intensity of the diffused light equals that of the corona at a distance of solar diameter from the sun 's limb , in unit of the intensity of the corona at a point 1 solar diameter distant from the limb as found from the formula S7 .
In the preliminary report I have said that the plate-holder failed to move in the designed manner , due to some parts of the apparatus having been damaged in transit .
Owing to this accident , there is a multiplication of images in the sixth and seventh pictures , and not only the first five photographs are an inch ( 2 solar diameters ) apart , but also the next two , which were meant to be at twice that distance .
In consequence , the successive exposures to the diffused light overlap ou the plate , with the effect that on one half of each of Photographs I. to VII .
the1e is the same duration of exposure to the diffused light as on the .joining half of the neighbouring photograph .
This has enabled me to separate the intensity of the corona from that of the sky .
There is no apping on ' VIII .
and IX .
, and though they did not , on that account , furnish data for the intensity formula , they supplied a series of equal-intensity curves of the corona , which are equired for the reduction of the other pictures .
Fig. 3 explains the conditions .
nn Fig. 3 .
photographs are numbered I. , II .
, \amp ; c. , and the exposures ( see S 1 ) , 1 , 2 , \amp ; c. The lines at the top give the extent of the area illuminated at each exposure by the OR L. CKER ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF diffused light .
The right halves of a photograph will be ttnated by and .
Photographs I. to VII .
occupy the first half-plate , and VIII .
and IX .
of the second half-plate .
Photographs VI .
and VII .
are , from an ideal point of view , marred by defects\mdash ; No. VI .
by some instantaneous pictures of the protuberances which appear on the lunal disc , and No. VII .
two short exposure pictures which are eccentrically superposed on it .
These defects are of no consequence ( see S6 .
Owing to the failure of the automatic apparatus , the exposures of Nos. VI .
and VII .
are uncertain to about a second , but the sum of the two exposures , equals the sum of the sixth , seventh and eigbth exposures , is accurately known .
To get the negatives , from which the PIate was prepared , I first made enlarged positives , copying those pictures together whose background have the same density on the original .
I have attempted to make the coronas of .
and .
extend equally far , and in the attempt the coronas of pictures Vu .
and VIII .
have come out too small .
I should say that on the original negative the corona of VIII .
covers the whole breadth of the plate , which towards the top is three-quarters of a solar diameter broadel than shown in the reproduction .
The is 3 .
The surements .
The observations made on the photographs , and utilised 11 this paper , consist in the selection of points on the sevel.al corona pictures at which the photographic film shows the same degree of blackness , and in the measurement of their distance the lunar disc .
The measurements were actually made on positives , and not one but twentyfour points of an equal-b ] ackness curve , 15 degrees apart , were measured .
The positives are contact prints on slow plates obtained at a distance of 10 feet from a gas jet .
The twelve sets which I prepared belong to different exposul.es , and were developed for contrast .
I copied the negatives I. to .
and .
and VII .
separately on account of the differences .
in density of the background .
Sixteen sets of measurements of equal-density curves were made on these twelve sets of positives .
The measurements were easy to make , and proved to be consistent .
The positives show a perfectly transparent ring round the lunar disc , the diameter of which depends on exposure and development .
Seen against black paper , this ring furnishes a well-defined outline to set upon .
Some of the curves at great distance the sun , where intensity changes little with the distance , were measured on enlargements ( 10 diameters ) on bromide paper , in which the contrasts are much increased .
I further made twenty copies of each of Photographs VIII .
and IX .
at all kinds of exposures .
These negatives are very dense , and , apparently , evenly dense up to about half a diameter from the sun 's limb , and show no detail to the eye when inspected against a strong light .
On the other hand , the positives contain detail as near as diameter , and as distinctly as if they were replicas of the first six LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
negatiyes .
The measurements furnished 79 curves of equal density , which belong to mean distances between and 1 solar diameter .
As each of the two photographs has a background of equal density all round , these curves will be employed in reducing measured distances on other photographs as described in S 4 ( c ) and S 4 ( d ) .
The apparatus which I employed in measuring the photographs consists of a lowpower microscope mounted on a slide whose position can be read by vernier to of an inch .
The slide is mounted on a circular plate which turns in a ring , so that measurements can be made at any position-angle .
The measurements were made at position-angles degree , 15 degrees , \amp ; c. The position-angles refer to the north pole of the sun .
I obtained the zero of the positionangles from the calculated position-angles referred to the north pole of the sun and the positions of the second and third contacts on the first and last photographs .
The position-angles of the contacts referred to the celestial pole were found from the data given in the 'Nautical Almanac ' ( 124 degrees and 287 degrees ) , and the positionangle of the north pole of the sun is degrees .
On the ' published with this paper the lin joining the centres of the lunar discs has a position-angle of degrees , 59 degrees being to the left and 149 degrees at the top .
I observed the following rule in measuring :After clamping the microscope at a certain position-angle , I set the wire successively on the moon 's limb , then on a point of the corona where the blackness had a certain density and , without turning the microscope , made similar measurements 180 degrees from the first position .
Keepin the of blackness in my mind , I repeated the operation on the other photo , and then for the other position-angles .
S4 .
Reductions .
The object of the reductions is to find ( 1 ) the mean distance from the solar limb of , ch equal-density curve , and ( 2 ) the position of each equal-intensity curve with reference to its mean circular-intensity curve .
The steps are as follow:\mdash ; There is a slight difference amounting to a few thousandths of an inch between the diameters of the moon as obtained from negatives and from positives .
On the negatives the lunar diameter is of an inch , and I reduced all the measured distances to this diameter by correcting them by half the difference between this and the diameter to each measured distance .
( b ) Reduction of the Distunces Lunar Limb to Limb .
( fig. 4 ) is the centre of the moon , and respectively centres of the sun at second and third contacts and seconds after the second contact .
The duration of totaJit is about 205 seconds .
diameter of the moon is of an inch , and that of the sun is of an inch .
The angle between the second and third contacts , deoreesb , is given by the first and last photographs ; it equals the angle VOL. CCVIJ.\mdash ; A. 2 subtended by BA at M. The position angle , counted from the north pole of the sun of the second contact is 104 degrees .
is designated by A measured distance , at position-angle , is reduced to distance from the limb by the following formula , small quantities being neglected , The maximum of is inch .
The correction of the position-angles inappreciable for our purpose .
( c ) Curves of Equal Intensity of the define the mean distance of equal-intensity curve of the corona as the mean of the distances of twenty-four points of the curve , 15 degrees apart .
Equal-blackness curves coincide with equal-intensity curves on Photographs VIII .
and IX .
, and also on Photograph I. The measured distances were first corrected for corrections and ( b ) , and then each Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .
distances belonging to an equal-intensity ( or blackness ) curve were combined to a mean ; the differences , Sh , ( mean minus reduced distance ) define the equal-intensity ( or blackness ) curve with reference to the circular mean curve .
Finally curves were interpolated from the observed 95 curves at regular intervals of the mean distance .
An extract of the results is contained in Table I. ( p. 337 ) , and graphs of some of the curves are shown in fig. 5 .
( d ) Reduction of the Dnstances of Portions of qual-blackness to the Mean Distance of that Curve.\mdash ; Though equal-blackness curves were measured on all pictures at all position angles , only portions of these curves can be used together , because the equal-blackness curves do not everywhere coincide with the equalintensity curves of the corona .
In next section it will be shown ( 1 ) that in the case of Photographs V. , VI , and VII .
, owing to luminosity of the sky , the left and right BLUE-VIOLET LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
halves of an equal-blackness curve coincide each with an equal-intensity curve of the corona , though not with the same curve of the corona , and that on the two halves of Photographs I. to IV .
an equal-blackness curve differs inappreciably from an equalintensity curve ; ( 2 ) that on account of the overlapping of the coronas belonging to neighbouring pictures the in and blackness curves do not coincide at certain position-angles .
Therefore , if the mean distance of each equal-blackness curve be derived separately for each half of Photographs V. , VI .
and , and all measure- ments be excluded which belong to position-angles where there is appreciable overlappin of coronas , the mean distance will also be the mean distance of an equal- intensity curve .
Each measurement belonging to a position-angle , and reduced in accordance with and ( b ) , plus the correction Sh derived above , gives a mean distance of the equal-blackness curve , and there are as many values of this mean distance as there are measurements .
Their average value is the final value , and its error can be determined from the differences from the mean .
Table III .
contains its error and the number of measurements which contribute to the mean value .
indicates that all the points of the curve , position-angles to 345 , were used .
For , the points at position-angles 225 , 240 , 255 degrees are excluded and for those at 210 and 270 degrees are omitted in addition .
For Photographs .
to VII .
the points omitted lie symmetrically round position-angles 60 degrees and 240 degrees .
The quantities are given in unit of solar diameter , those derived in inches being multiplied by ( diameter of moon on photograph of an inch , diameters of moon and sun and seconds ) .
I designate by " " corresponding distances\ldquo ; the distances from the sun 's limb of two points on two different pictures of the corona at which there is equal blackness .
In Table III .
the mean corresponding distances stand on the same line .
I shall show in the next section that at these tabulated distances the ratio of the intensities of the corona is a constant for each wo photographs .
S5 .
Distances on Corona .
see under I employ the following notation .
I or is an intensity of light acting on a photographic plate , and they are the quantities ) light falling on unit area of the plate , which is the area cut out in the focal plane of the camera by unit of spherical angle at the centre of the object-glass .
or is an intensity of a luminous object , i.e. , a quantity of light fallin from unit area of object ( area cut out by unit of spherical angle ) on unit area of the object-glass , which unit area equals that for the plate .
designates the exposed area of the object-glass and the time during which the plate is illuminated .
Then and For the pattern of screens by which I reduced the aperture of the lens the loss of light due to the object-glass will be about proportional to the aperture , and it need not be taken into account , but the effects of diffraction require special investigation ( see Appendix I ( b ) Intensity and Time for Equal Blackness.\mdash ; Experiments have proved that for the same photographic plate and development the intensities of light and the durations of exposure necessary to produce the same blackness on the film bear a certain relation to each other .
According to MICHALKE this relation is independent of the degree of blackness .
I have represented MICHALKE'S observations by the formula constant , where , and further mined for the plates employed by me ( Imperial special rapid ) .
I used as a source of light a disc of opal glass ( 2 inches in diameter ) , illuminated from behind by an electric lamp , and I exposed directly to the light of the disc successively different portions of the same plate at distances varying from 1 to 15 metres .
A Thornton-Pickard shutter recorded the duration of exposure automatically on a chronograph .
My value of is ( c ) The ratio of two intensities , , which illuminate , through apertures of a lens during times , a photographic plate placed in the focus of the same camera is a constant if they produce equal blackness on the film .
By and ( b ) can be calculated for the eclipse photographs .
The individual exposures of Photographs VI .
and VII .
are uncertain to about a second ( see S 6 ) , but their sum is accurately known .
I take here , and hence .
The other data are given in S 1 .
The numerical value of is of no importance for the first five photographs . .
( d ) Correlative Distances the Corona.\mdash ; If the pictures of the corona had not been overlapping , and the sky been dark , an equal-blackness curve would have coincided with an equal-intensity curve of the corona , and the ratio of the intensities of the corona belonging to two such curves on Photographs and would equal a constant [ see ] .
I shall call " " correlative distances on corona the distances of points of the corona at which the ratio of the intensities equals ( e ) Simultaneous and Successive xposures.\mdash ; I make the following two assumptions:\mdash ; ( l ) the degree of blackness on the film is independent of the order in which two or more exposures are made ; ( 2 ) if two intensities give the same blackness for certain exposures , they do so , too , when these exposures are made on an otherwise exposed film .
I have checked ( 1 ) , but not ( 2 ) , by experiment .
Let two intensities I and illuminate the film together during the same time By ( b ) for equal blackness , BLUE-VIOLET LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
where can be determined from the equation .
The formula expresses that acting on the film during gives the same blackness as acting during and being , of course , after ( or before ) .
Hence the positive stands for " " the one exposure after the other Each of the terms may be replaced by a term of the form , which equals it in value [ see ( 2 ) ] , and expresses the intensity , the time .
The terms may be written in any order [ see ( 1 ) ] .
( f ) Eliraination of the Diffused Light of the Sky.\mdash ; Let and I belong to the corona , and to the sky .
On the second half of the photograph illuminates the film during , and thereafter during the first half of the photograph illuminates the.film during , and thereafter during .
Let both produce equal blackness .
By ( e ) constant The last two terms disappear , and therein lies the advantage introduced for Photographs V. to VIII .
by the failure of the mechallism during the eclipse ; , where I ' Substitute and [ see ] and introduce by ; therefore , where Equal blackness was observed at the distances and , hence and are corresponding distances ; they are , however , not correlative distances on the corona , because the ratio of and , the intensities of the corona at and , does not equal .
On the other hand , the distances , at which the intensities of the corona equal and , are , by definition ( d ) , correlative distances on the corona .
Hence we have I calculate and the differential quotient by the formula derived in this paper , which gives as a function of ; further , for , and thence .
The values are : for for for , and for .
The measured corresponding distances are correlative distances on the corona with an error .
These systematic errors are insignificant compared with the accidental elTors of measurement ( see Table III .
) up to , and even for the most distant parts of the corona they do not reach these accidental errors .
The correlative distances determine the intensity formula ( see S7 ) , and in the equations the residuals appear under the form .
I observed on 31S PROFESSOR L. BECKER ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF pictures VIb .
and VII .
the corresponding distances , and ; hence equals for , and for , while the accidental errors are about 45 and 75 , that is to say , four times as great as the systematic errors .
Compared with the actual residuals left by the equations , the systematic errors are still smaller .
The result , then , is this : Let there be equal blackness on the two adjoining halves of two neighbouring pictures ( Nos. and ) of the corona at distances and , then and are also correlative distances on the corona at which the ratio of the intensities equals The result would have been different if the backgrounds of the two neighbouring pictures had not been overlapping .
would have been found instead of , and could not have been separated from ( g ) The intensity of the diffused light of the sky can be disregarded on the first five photographs .
To prove this , I start from the equations [ see ( f ) ] constant for equal blackness .
The lower sign belongs to the first half of the photograph , and the upper sign to the second half For the first five photographs is small compared with , hence by , ( b ) , and ( c ) constant , where , where is the intensity which produces at aperture and exposure the same blackness as the two superposed exposures to the diffused light .
The distances belongmg to the intensities and are , by definition , correlative distances on the corona .
We obtain , then , in the same manner as explained in ( f ) , and is calculated by the above formula and , except for the first photograph and the first half of the second .
The values range between and A minute before the beginning of totality the cap was removed from the objectglass and during that time light must have been reflected into the camera by the shutter , which was placed about an inch from the object-glass , and illuminated the plate at the place where Photographs I. and .
were taken .
The blackness of the background lies between that of IV .
and V. , and I estimate and The calculated values of do not amount to a third of the accidental errors of measurement ( Table III It is , therefore , permissible to regard the corresponding BLUE-YIOLET LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
distances measured on pictures I. to .
as correlative distances on the corona , just as if no diffused light had been illuminating the plate .
After the experience gained at this eclipse I should again place the pictures as they appear in the diagram , i.e. make the opening of the plate-holder twice as long on a side as the distance between the pictures .
This arrangement entails no disadvantage for the short exposures , and for the long exposures the intensity of the diffused light can be eliminated .
( See S 1 , last section .
) ( h ) Overlapping of Coronas of Neighbouring Pictures.\mdash ; At a point A of the picture the intensity of the corona is at distance , and the intensity of the light which illuminates A for a time is .
The same point is illuminated for a time , also by light of intensity belonging to a different part of the corona in the photograph , where the corona has an intensity and .
Point A lies on an equal-blackness curve of picture , and this curve coincides with an equal-intensity curve of the corona ( intensity ) at all points where there no overlapping .
By ( c ) or very nearly The equal intensity curve ( intensity ) cuts the radial line belonging to ( distance ) at , and AA ' is the distance of the two curves at A. Hence I measured on a diagram the distances of a point A from the solar limbs of the following and preceding pictures , calculated by the formula and thence .
In deriving the meau distance of an equal-blackness curve [ preceding section ( d ) ] I used only those measured distances for which the average value of ( including is less than a half of the calculated error of the average distance .
The number of values is given in Table III .
under heading [ see preceding section ( d ) ] .
The average values of increase with the accidental error , but they have always the same sign , so that the systematic residuals become very small compared with the accidental errors .
It would of course have been better if all the images had been further apart .
( See S 1 , last section .
) The outcome of the discussion given in this section is , that the mean corresponding distances given in Table III .
are also mean correlative distances on the corona .
S6 .
VII .
Duration of Exposure.\mdash ; Owing to the failure in the driving of the plateholder only two pictures ( VI .
and VII .
) belong to the three exposures secon.ds .
The sum of the durations of exposure of these pictures is thus given .
It is of some ) orfance to know the upper limit , if not the accurate durations , of the exposure belonging to Photograph VI .
On Photograph No. VII .
three images are eccentrically superposed see .
The order of magnitude of the time for which they illuminated can be found from the degree of blackness of the background which belongs to each image .
In this way I find that circle ( b ) is due to a short exposure of the order of a second , the faint circle ( c ) ( dotted in fig. 6 ) which is faintly visible within the corona is the lunar disc during a very long exposure , and semicircle must belong to an exposure of about 10 seconds .
Now ( b ) is exactly at the position on the plate , as determined by its distance from other pictures , at which the plate-holder was locked by the of the propelling mechanism .
The contacts made by the clock for unlocking and locking Fig. 6 .
the plate-holder are between the contacts for exposures , and hence no part of the exposure which produced ( c ) can have contributed to ( b ) .
As ( c ) belongs to the longest exposure , ( b ) must be due to some portion of the -seconds exposure .
The first part of this exposure must have contributed to picture VI .
, because the plate moved ( see the instantaneous photographs of the protuberances on the lunar disc of picture VI .
and in the coronas of VI .
and VII .
) while an exposure was going on .
The exposure given to No. VI .
is erefore 9 , and the combined exposure for abc of No. VII .
is , less the exposure of No. may lie between and 1 second ( see above ) , I should add that the lunar disc on Photograph .
is exactly round and not blurred in the least .
Apart from the instantaneous pictures and trails of prominences on the lunar disc , the picture VI .
is perfect .
( b ) surement of Curve of ckness on .\mdash ; I shall now investigate whether the three eccentrically superposed images on this photograph can be utilised in this research .
Let the curves of equal intensity of the corona be circles , and let us consider the curves at some distance from the sun .
Let and ( fig. 6 ) be the centres of two photographs of the sun moon , supposed and MM ' and NN ' be circles of radius along which the corona has an intensity To centre belongs the exposure and to A the exposure .
Along circle MM ' , has been exposed during and on this is superposed an exposure to during , i.e. , has been exposed during and during .
This additional radiation has the same value with opposite signs at two opposite points of circle MM ' .
In the same way along circle NN ' intensity has acted during , and during .
Hence the radiation was exposed during along a curve which lies between the two circles MM ' and NN ' and in such a way that the mean of the distances ( and ) from of two opposite points of this curve is equal to . .
Along IN SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
i321 this curve there is equal blackness on the photograph and the samq blackness occurs on Photograph .
at a point at distance , which was illuminated by during Hence constant The mean distance of the equal-blackness curve is the average value of which is .
But is , by assumption , the distance of the point on the COl.ona at which the intensity is .
Hence the mean distance of the equal-blackness curve and are correlative distances on the corona .
The same result holds good for the three eccentrically superposed pictures of VI photograph , and constant , 7 is equal to .
Photograph VII .
may therefore be measured and reduced in the same way as the other phot ) ographs , provided that always two opposite points of an equal-blackness curve be measured .
Terms of the second order have been neglected in this derivation ; they amount to only a fraction of the distance AC ( diameter ) and are small quantities compared with the errors of measurement .
S7 .
The which gives the Intensity of the Corona a of the Distance I first tried whether the observed distances satisfied Professor TURNER'S formula ( intensity inversely proportional to the sixth power of the distances from the sun 's centre ) , but find inadmissible residuals .
Another formula has therefore to be derived .
If the distances in columns I. to , Table III .
, be plotted as ordinates , and the corresponding distances standing in the first column as abscissae , the points belonging to the same column lie as nearly in a straight line as can be expected from the accuracy of the obseryations , and all these five lines can be made to intersect in a point Hence , to 5 , a constant .
The intensity being a function of the distances , which are counted from the sun 's limb , I write .
Hence and , constant ] ' as and are correlative distances on the corona .
This relation is satisfied by .
Hence and .
The formula is the same as Professor TURNER'S , with this difference , however , that need ot be the radius of the sun .
Approximate values of and are found in this way .
I assume , 40 , \amp ; c. , to 320 ( solar diameter ) and calculate from , and .
The residuals are VOL. CCVII .
\mdash ; A. 2 .
I take the sum of the residuals irrespective of sign for to 5 .
For each value of the sum of the residuals is a minimum for between 80 and 120 , and the sum for all values of together is a minimum for .
The sum of the residuals is 50 per cent. greater for and ( radius of ; un leaves inadmissible residuals .
The obseryed values of and belonging to give for for for for In the same way , if the distances obtained from Photograph No. .
be plotted as ordinates and those on Photograph yb .
as abscissa , a straight line represents the observations as well as any smooth curve that can be drawn , and the same remark refers to the distances obtained from raphs V .
and VII .
The sum of the residuals is again small for values of near 110 , though the range of possible values of is larger .
The resulting value of lies near 4 .
I think this is sufficient proof that the function represents very nearly the obseryations , Let us assume it to be exactly correct .
The method explains that and the constants are determined independently of the times of exposure from the condition , and that there are equations for the unknown .
These equations will be rigorously satisfied , provided the correct values of be introduced , and hence values or values of the time of exposure can be determined from the equations along with I prefer to determine and together by the Method of Least Squares .
Let be the true values of and , and be the accidental error of measurement of , and the correction of an approximate value , which need not necessarily be the calculated value .
The observations must rigorously satisfy the equations or .
The sum of the squares of the left side which contains the accidental errors is a minimum for the most probable values of , and values .
The solution gives these unknowns as functions of one of the , or if all the be introduced as unknowns one of them must come out indeterminate .
Instead of , I in corrections of the adopted times of exposure .
For the first five photographs will be found as functions of and , and for Photographs Vb .
, VI .
, and VII .
, as functions of and .
Finally , all the time records can be used in determining the corrections .
It will be seen that the uncertainty of the exposure of Photograph VI .
is not such a serious deficiency as might be expected at first sight .
LIGHT IN SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
To determine by the Method of Least Squares only and would mean the discarding of the condition and must lead to erroneous results .
I calculate , and from equations which result from logarithmic differentiation of the equation given above .
Let to 6 , ( see S6 ) , , where are assumed to equal the observed values and is arbitrarily chosen equal to ( see S6 ) .
The values are those appearing in S5 , and they sufficiently approach their true values .
I start from , the result of a first solution .
The equations of condition are where \mdash ; Mod Mod , and similarly for suffix but Mod in equations for and The weight of an equation is calculated with and as given in Table III .
, being the error of an equation of unit weight .
The calculated weights served merely as a guide .
The adopted weights appear in Table IV .
The numerical equations Photographs .
I. II .
I. III .
I. Iy .
I. ya. .
VIa .
VIb .
Photographs .
I. II .
I. III .
I. Iy .
I. ya. .
VIa .
Photographs .
I. II .
I. III .
I. Iy .
I. ya. .
VIa .
is entel.ed in Table IV .
The brackets indicate logarithms , being omitted .
On account of the defects of Photograph VII .
and the uncertainty of the exposure of VI .
, I have solved the equations appertaining to Photographs I. to Va. separately from those belonging to Photographs .
to VI1 .
, and finally have discussed the whole material .
Photogrcxphs I. to .\mdash ; These mine the intensity curve from distance 60 to 520 .
In accordance with the above , two of the are indetertninate .
I choose PROFESSOR L. BECKER ON THE DISTRIBUTION and and express the other unknowns as functions of them .
The result of the solution is The errors are mean errors .
The mean elror of an equation of unit weight is , as compared with the adopted value So far the time records have not been used ( except in the calculations of the differential quotients , which is merely a matter of convenience ) .
I determine and from all the time records , the condition that the values of differ from a mean value by accidental errors .
The equations are The result is .
The equations do not determine with any degree of accuracy .
unknowns then become The value of is irrelevant for our purpose , it cannot be more than a fraction of a second and such a value changes and only by a small fraction of its error .
We may change by a small quantity of the order of its error and by a corresponding quantity without altering the residuals .
The equations give .
I assume and throw its error on .
The result is ( A ) ( b ) , VI .
and VII.\mdash ; The photographs furnish material for the intensity-curve from to about 1700 ( solar diameter ) .
BLUE-VIOLET LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
Again two of the remain indeterminate .
I take , which is permissible , as any reasonable error has a small effeot on and , see , and express the unknowns as functions of .
The result is ll The error of an equation of unit weight is The time records except have not yet been used .
can be determined from the last equation .
The upper limit of see is and it gives and the lower limit of is , which gives , both with an error of .
The large value of belonging to the lower limit of is out of the question , because the pendulum of the contact clock could not possibly have been placed so much out of beat .
Neyertheless , I both values , 3 10 8 4 I again reduce .
The normal equation gives , hence B 10.8 The second result is 1lot possible , as already mentioned .
( c ) All the I. to .\mdash ; In this solution I have included the unknown in order to see what effect the error of has on and .
Fiye corrections can be found or five of the , leaving two , say and , besides , indeterminate .
The result 4 00\mdash ; 0 PROFESSOR L. BECKER ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF The mean error of an equation of unit weight is found as compared with the adopted value of .
Any possible error cannot alter the value of the variables by more than a small fraction of their errors , and was deduced from experiments with an error of .
So far the time records have not been used ; I determine as under ( a ) from the recorded times to , neglecting and The result is .
I substitute this value and calculate the errors on the supposition that , which certainly exceed the true errors .
The result is becomes , which lies between the limits derived for in S6 .
In this solution no use has been made of the time of exposure assigned to the sixth photograph .
The error of may be combined with that of ( see above ) .
( C ) The results ( A ) , ( B ) , ( C ) agree very well ; the good agreement of ( A ) and ( B ) , which rest on different material , is remarkable .
Considering that all the material contributed to ( C ) , I might adopt it as final .
I change by a unit to round off the figure .
Hence ( D ) is counted from the sun 's limb in unit of solar diameter and expresses the intensity in unit of the intensity of the corona at .
The residuals left by ( D ) and calculated with the corrected values of appear in Table IV .
under heading ( v ) .
I employ them to derive the errors of the distances .
I divide the residuals in each column in three groups and regard the mean of the residuals in each group as the error of , where and are the mean distances each group .
The errors of measurement will be about the same on the first two photographs and they can therefore be calculated .
The calculations of the errors of is sufficiently evident .
The result .
100 .
200 .
400 .
600 .
800 .
1000 .
1200 .
1400 .
Errors .
15 27 47 70 100 130 These errors are almost twice as great as those in Table III .
The excess must , I thin , be mainly set down to systematic errors of measurement which are different for the several positives .
Fig. 7 shows a comparison of the intensity curve with the observations .
As the observations do not give absolute intensities , but the ratio of the intensities at two correlative distances , I adopt at distances , and the intensities as calculated from the formula ( D ) and calculate the intensities at the correlative distances , from the latter and the known ratios F. The left side can be developed into a power series of ( 3 ) therefore and must also be power series of : ( 4 ) ( 5 ) , where Let ( 6 ) These substituted in ( 2 ) give ( 7 ) or ( I ) The second integral in ( 2 ) gives the polarised light , while the left side equals the total light .
Their ratio was designated by ; hence ( II ) Provided be observed as a function of , i.e. of can be calculated by ( II ) , and by ( 1 ) , i.e. and become known functions .
Their values are , if ( III ) Substitute , and and find and .
The problem can therefore be solved if were known .
I am unable to say whether the measurements of the polarised light made at the last eclipse suffice to determine this function .
With reference to ( I ) , very nearly equal the coefficients of a binomial series , and it is not difficult to prove that The exponent , of formula ( D ) , is derived from the observations with an error of ( assuming to be correct ) , hence the errors of the exponents in the BLUE-VIOLET LIGHT IN THE CORONA ON , 1905 .
above inequality are about ten times as much as the range of the exponents , and we may write ( I ) , ( 4 ) , and ( 5 ) give then , if which stands for the light .
radiated and scattered at right angles to the radial direction by the particles in unit volume at distance from the sun 's centre .
Considering that the second term is a fraction of the polarised light and the latter a fraction of the total light , nearly equals the first term , If there were no light scattered by the particles but only radiated , the number of particles per unit volume , , would , by ( 1 ) , be proportional to .
This result differs from that derived by ARRHENIUS , who based his calculations on constant .
10 .
for Repetition of such Observations in this and for vations of the Polarised at Various For wave-lengths to the radiation of a particle at is 355 times as great as that at , while for wave-lengths to this ratio is only 70 .
Blue-violet radiation is almost inversely proportional to the sixth power of the distance of the particle from the sun 's centre ( see S 9 , 5 ) , and for red-yellow radiation the power is only Hence if in addition to photographs on ordinary plates a series of photographs be taken with a colour screen on a plate sensitized for red-yellow rays another formula would be found which should lead ( see last section ) to the same number of particles per unit volume as that belonging to blue-violet radiation .
Two such series of photographs , together with observations of the light polarised at various distances , would thus decide the debated question whether the luminosity is actually caused by minute particles which are heated to luminescence by solar radiation and which scatter sunlight .
( b ) Though it is a fact that the brightness of the corona undergoes changes , we are ignorant whether the intensity of the corona at a certain distance in terms of that at unit distance is a constant or not .
Inferences might be drawn from data such as contained in this paper and belonging to a series of eclipses which would advance our knowledge of the constitution of the corona and give us some idea of the causes which produce it .
It is , of course , necessary that the plates have on all occasions the same relative sensitiveness in the different regions of the spectrum .
( I employed Imperial special rapid plates .
) I cannot finish this paper without expressing my indebtedness to the University Court of Glasgow for a grant of XI00 towards the expenses of the expedition ; to my companion , Mr. JOHN FRANKLIN ADAMS , who presented half of this sum to the Court and superintended the arrangements for the transport of the instruments ; to Mr. ANDREW , Glasgow , for his hospitality at his comfortable house at Kalaa and the help the employees of his firm extended to the expedition en route ; to the Council of the Royal Dublin Society for the loan of a siderostat , and to my companion , Mr. HENRY A. MAVOR , M.Inst .
C.E. , Glasgow , who , in the capacity of physician , engineer , and adviser , took upon himself much of that work which is not mentioned , but is so important to the success of an expedition .
' APPENDIX action due to the Screens .
For the first four exposures , each of about a second , the aperture of the lens is reduced by a perforated screen which has thirteen equal circular openings .
The arrangement of these openings will be seen in fig. 1 : there are six holes in the corners of a regular hexagon , one in the centre , and six others are equidistant from each two of them .
The diffraction pattern of a star does not consist , as might be thought , of a series of detached images which lie on lines intersecting in a centre , but , as raphs of Lyrae have proved , shows , apart from a central region , luminous rings at the same distances at which one opening produces them .
On the photograph of Lyrae rings are visible as far as ( linear value of ) for the first screen , and on the eclipse photographs the prominences have certainly made no impression beyond .
Faint though the intensity of the rings be , it requires investigation whether a distant ring belonging to a point of the corona near the sun has sn intensity comparable to that of a distant poinf ) on whose image the ring is superposed , or rather whether all the diffracted light together is not a negligible quantity .
I shall show that it is small .
The result would have been different if the exposures had bee1i longer and more distant parts of the corona had been photographed with the screens .
Let be a point in the focal plane and the position of its central image .
I introduce a rectangular system of co-ordinates in the plane of the screen , origin in centre of the central opening , and -axis parallel to Let there be only two holes which lie diametrically opposite and whose centres have the x-co-ordinates , then the state of oscillation at is given by * Postscript , added at the request of one of the Referees .
The photographic experiments were subsequent to and contirmatory of the matbematical analysis .
BLUE-VIOLET LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
where designates the radius of the opening , the angular distance of CP at the .
centre of the object-glass , the wave-length , sm , and BESSEL'S function of order 1 .
Let there be thirteen holes arl.anged as defined above nd the distance between each two be equal to , and let a diagonal of the hexagon and the -axis enclose angle , then the state of oscillation at is given by The intensity at is the square of the coefficient of .
The position of point is determined with reference to by its linear distance -length and its position-angle counted from a line parallel to one of the diagonals of the hexagon of the screen .
For same values of the intensity is the same for and it is periodical with reference to , with a period of .
Hence the intensity can be developed into a cosine-series progressing by multiples of To find the quantity oflight falling on a ring round limited by radii and I multiply the intensity by the element of the area in the focal plane and integrate from to and from to .
The integration with reference to can be carried out .
The result is , if be introduced instead of designates BESSEL'S function of order zero .
I transform the second integral .
The values of and are with sufficient accuracy for values of larger than The terms in have , for the first screen , respectively the periods , and owing to these short periodic terms the quantity to be integrated changes sign at small intervals of .
To a given value of , say , , a limit near can be found which makes the second integral zero .
have convinced myself by quadrature that this deduction is correct even for , , .
For our purpose it is unnecessary to take the second part into account .
Therefore , if all the light falling on the ring be considered PROFESSOR L. BECKER ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF together the distribution is almost exactly the same as if all the light had passed through only one of the openings ; and in accordance with the above , if the ring be divided into 12 parts by 6 diameters , beginning at , each segment contains a twelfth.of the light falling on the whole ring .
The quantity of light falling on such a twelfth of a zone between and is given by , where designates the intensity outside the object-glass .
I next consider the light falling on unit area at a point of the image of a luminous area .
Draw circles , radii , round , and divide each ring by 6 diameters into 12 equal parts .
Project from centre of object-glass this system of circles and lines on the luminous area .
Let the intensity of the source be constant within an area of the source corresponding to part of rin ; then , if there were units in one of these parts , each unit would send for divided by to unit at i.e. the units send to unit at C. The total quantity of light falling on unit at is therefore given by or , where , because .
Parts 1 and 7 , 2 and 8 , \amp ; c. , lie diametrically opposite with reference to C. Hence the quantity of light at is not changed by diffraction if the source be everywhere equally intense , or if the intensity uniformly increase along the lines drawn through C. In the case of the corona the second condition is very nearly satisfied in the neighbourhood of a point , and thus the most luminous diffraction rings hardly affect the quantity of light at , there being almost as much light lost as gained .
Let be known for each of the four screens , and at each distance Equal blackness was observed on two photographs exposed equally long with screens and , at two points and ; hence , and or [ , see S 5 ( ] .
BLUE-VIOLET LIGHT IN THE SOLAR CORONA ON AUGUST 30 , 1905 .
The distances at which the corona has the intensities are correlative .
distances on corona [ compare S5 ( d ) and ( f ) ] , where The intensity formula for the corona ought to have been derived from the observed values of corrected by As to the calculation of , I obtained the intensities of the corona from a diagram .
I drew six lines through at intervals of and marked off points at distances from C. I assume that the intensity of the corona belonging to a point thus marked equals the mean intensity at all the points within a ring limited by circles ?
and and up to from it .
The intensity at the points was read off the diagram and multiphed by .
The linear value of is , in unit of solar diameter , for screen 1 , for screen 2 , for screen 3 , for screen 4 , for full aperture .
For screens 3 and 4 several rings were treated together .
In some directions the calculation had to extend as far as ring .
I calculated by the following formulae , , for large For small values of I interpolated the value of the integral from the table given in MUELLER'S ' Photometrie der Gestirne , ' p. 166 .
The result of the calculation is\mdash ; The systematic errors due to diffraction , and still more their functions [ see S 5 , are so small compared with the accidental errors of measurement , as calculated from the residuals , that they can be neglected , and hence formula ( D ) , S7 , gives the relative intensities of the corona .
APPENDIX II .
of Corona Moon .
The results contained in this section are not to be considered as an attempt to standardise my eclipse plates , but they originated in a desire to give future observers some ideas of the intensities with which they have to deal .

