On the hater-Barometer erected in the Hall of the Royal Society .
By J. F. DANIELL Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Chemistry in Kis llee , London .
Read June 21 , 1832 .
I HAVE for some time entertained an opinion , in common with some others who have turned their attention to the subject , that a good series of observations with a Water-Barometer , accurately constructed , might throw some light upon several important points of physical science : amongst others , upon the tides of the atmosphere ; the horary oscillations of the counterpoising column ; the ascending and descending rate of its greater oscillations ; and the tension of vapour at different atmospheric temperatures .
I have sought in vain in various scientific works , and in the Transactions of Philosophical Societies , for the record of any such observations , or for a description of an instrument calculated to afford the required information with anything approaching to precision .
In the first volume of the History of the French Academy of Sciences , a cursory reference is made , in the following words , to some experiments of M. MARIOTTE upon the subject , of which no particulars appear to have been preserved .
" Le meme M. MARIOTTE fit aussi A l'observatoire des experiences sir le barometre ordinaire h mercure compar6 au barom &amp; A eau .
Dans l'un le mercure s'elva A 28 pouces , et dans l'autre leau fut i 31 pieds | .
Cequi donne le rapport du mercure l'eau de 13| A 1 .
" -Histoire de rAcad6mie , tom .
i. p. 234 .
It also appears that Orro GURICKE constructed a philosophical toy* for the amusement of himself and friends , upon the principle of the water-barometer ; but the column of water probably in this , as in all the other instances which I have met with , was raised by the imperfect rarefaction of the air in the tube above it , or by filling with water a metallic tube , of sufficient length , cemented to a glass one at its upper extremity , and fitted with a stop-cock at each end ; so that when full the upper one might be closed and the lower opened , when the water would fall till it afforded an equipoise to the pressure of the atinosphere .
The imperfections of such an instrument , it is quite clear , would render it totally unfit for the delicate investigations required in the present state of science ; as , to render the observations of any value , it is absolutely necessary that the water should be thoroughly purged of air , by boiling , and its insinuation or reabsorption effectually guarded against .
I was convinced that the only chance of securing these two necessary ends , was to form the whole length of tube of one piece of glass , and to boil the water in it , as is done with mercury in the common barometer .
The practical difficulties which opposed themselves to such a construction long appeared to me insurmountable ; but I at length contrived a plan for the purpose , which , having been honoured with the approval of the late Meteorological Committee of this Society , was ordered to be carried into execution by the President and Council .
The first object was to procure a glass tube of the proper diameter , and of sufficient length for the purpose .
Messrs. PELLATT and Co. , of the Falcon Glass Iouse , very obligingly consented , upon application , to permit the trial to be made at their works ; such an undertaking never having been before attempted .
Accordingly , a very strong packing-case was prepared of one inch-and a-half deal , forty feet long , five inches wide , and four inches deep , inside measure ; with a cover of the same thickness to screw down upon it .
This was carried to the glass-house , and being laid in the yard with its cover off , small pieces of wood were placed across its bottom , at about one-foot intervals .
The only instructions given to the workman were to make a tube of the length of the box , which should not be less than half an inch internal diameter , and as equal throughout its length as possible ; and the manual dexterlity with which he proceeded to effect this was well worthy of admiration .
Having collected the glass at the end of his tube , and blown the cavity , a boy attached another iron with a small lump of hot glass to the opposite extremity of the mass , and drew the tube out by walking away to the required distance .
lThe curve of the hot glass was so great that the workmen could scarcely prevent it from touching the pavement , ( which of course woiuld have caused its instant destruction , ) by holding its extremities above their heads .
While it was still red-hot and pliant , it was carefully laid upon the transverse pieces in the box , and rolled backwards and forwards till cool ; by which a perfectly cylindrical form was secured .
While the drawing process was going on , others of the workmen fanned with their hats , for the purpose of cooling , the parts which appeared to be extending too fast ; and by such simple means a tube was perfected without a flaw , and of the greatest regularity ; varying only from one inch diameter at its lower extremity to 0'8 inch at its upper .
The facility with which this process was conducted was so much greater than had been anticipated , that I immediately determined to have another tube made ; that in case of any accident happening to the first , during the after operations , all the preliminary labour might not be thrown away .
This was accordingly effected by rolling it upon the steps of a ladder placed horizontally upon the ground for that purpose .
After it was cool it was lifted into the box by six men standing at equal intervals apart , and carefully placed by the side of the first .
The box was then packed with hay , the cover screwed down , and carried upon men 's shoulders to a convenient place for the further operations .
As it was not intended that the tubes should ever be removed from the case in which they had been originally deposited , the first step was to prepare the means of fixing them in their proper places when raised to the perpendicular position .
For this purpose pieces of wood were provided of half the depth of the box , upon the upper edge of each of which a semicircle was hollowed out of the exact dimensions of half the cylinder of the tube .
These were placed under the tube at equal intervals ; and other similar pieces prepared for screwing down upon the upper side of the tube ; in such a way that the two semicircles mneeting , formed collars , which tightly embraced it , and fixed it in the centre of the box .
The corners of the lower pieces were also cut away so as to enclose the spare tube ( e , f ) , Plate XIX .
which was placed in one of the angles of the case , and thus tightly fixed .
The next object was to prepare the tube ( a , b ) itself for its final fixture ; and for this purpose , as it was longer than was necessary , three feet were cut off from its upper extremity with a file ; a small thermometer ( c , d ) which had been made for the purpose , with a platinum scale carrying a spring of the same metal upon its back , was pushed down into the tube to a situation where it had been calculated it would always be immersed in the water , notwithstanding its oscillations ; and where a slight tapering of the tube insured its being fixed by the action of the spring .
By a careful application of the blow-pipe the glass was now softened , and an external collar ( g ) pushed up upon it , about eight inches from its upper extremity .
This was deemed necessary to give it additional support , and to prevent its slipping in its proper position .
The upper extremity was then contracted and drawn out into a small tube six inches long and of about one quarter of an inch diameter .
These preparations having been successfully completed , a small stop-cock was fitted to the upper end of the contracted tube by very careful grinding , and secured in its place by a little white lead .
The tubes were then again packed in their case , and the cover screwed down .
A small copper steam-boiler ( h , i ) was now constructed of what is called the waggon shape , and which was intended to form the cistern of the barometer .
Without the cylindrical cover ( k , 1 ) it is eighteen inches long , eleven inches wide , and ten inches deep .
Its bottom is slightly arched ; and towards one extremity on the inside is fixed a small cylinder ( mn , n ) six inches high and three inches diameter ; the object of which is to form a receptacle into which , the lower end of the tube being made to dip , the great body of the water might at any time be drawn out of the cistern , if required , without , for a short time , disturbing the water in the tube , or allowing any air to ascend into the vacuum , A small hole ( o ) was afterwards drilled in this cylinder , which is six inches from the crown of the arch , and four inches and a half from the bottom ; so that the water might be more completely withdrawn .
At the other extremity is a cock ( p ) for drawing it off , if at any time it should be necessary to change it .
The cover ( k , 1 ) is an arch of the height of six inches .
Immediately over the cylinder above described , a length of five inches ( k , q ) is fixed and fitted with a stuffing-box for the glass tube to pass through .
Beyond this it is made to take off , but may be fixed down by means of screws : on the summit of this moveable end a cock ( s ) is placed .
The whole of the interior has been strongly tinned .
Everything being now prepared , the steam-boiler was set with brick-work .in a proper position over a small fire-place , with a temporary flue ( t , u ) at the foot of the well-staircase conducting to the apartments of the Society .
With considerable difficulty and contrivance , the case with the glass tubes was introduced , by permission of the Antiquarian Society , through their library , and fixed against the stairs in a perpendicular direction , immediately over the stuffing-box ; and the front of the box being removed , the tube was unpacked and suspended from above over the aperture .
It was then very carefully lowered into its proper position in the boiler , and the wooden stays being screwed into their places , it was firmly adjusted .
The stuffing-box ( m , n ) , through which it passed into the boiler , was then packed with tow , and intended to be perfectly steam-tight .
Part of the upper end of the deal-case was removed with a saw , so as to leave about six feet of the glass tubes exposed .
The object of the whole arrangement was as follows : first to boil the water in the cistern thoroughly , suffering the stearn to escape by the cock ( s ) , and then , by closing the latter , to raise the water in the tube , by the elastic force of the vapour acting upon its surface , till it issued in a jet from the small stopcock upon its summit .
When a sufficient current had thus been forced up , to secure the thorough wetting of the tube , and the total extrication of all particles of air , it was intended to close the stop-cock at the top while the water was still flowing , and at the same moment to relieve the pressure below by opening the cock upon the boiler , and again suffering the steam to escape .
It was conceived that when the whole apparatus was cool , the column of water would subside , till it afforded a balance to the pressure of the atmosphere ; when the small tube might be sealed by a dextrous application of the blowpipe , and the stop-cock removed .
Everything being ready for the experiment , a preliminary trial was made of the apparatus on the 10th of June .
The boiler was carefully washed with boiling distilled water , and the cover being screwed down , it was filled with distilled water to within five inches and a half of the top .
The fire was then lighted in the grate , and in about two hours and a half a powerful current of pure steam issued from the cock ( s ) .
When this had continued for about half an hour , the cock was gradually closed , and the water rose very slowly in the tube .
During its rise it oscillated backwards and forwards two or three 4A2 543 inches , but the column was perfectly unbroken and clear .
On this occasion it was found impossible to raise it higher than thirteen feet , owing to the stuffing-box and cover not being sufficiently close .
The cock upon the boiler was therefore gradually opened , and the column of water slowly subsided , the steam rushing out with considerable violence .
Several practical points were determined by this experiment , which it was of importance to be acquainted with .
The apparatus was found perfectly manageable ; the pressure could be regulated with great precision by the cock , and the elasticity of the steam increased by very slow degrees , even when quite shut off .
The temperature of the rising column was very moderate , and felt but just warm to the hand at the upper part .
Several little alterations were made in the fire-place , and the part ( v , w ) which was immediately under the tube was bricked up , so that the flame was cut off from the front of the boiler , that the steam might be raised from the back part only , and the possibility of any bubble passing up into the tube precluded .
The stuffing-box was repacked , and the top screwed down with greater care .
The water was drawn off , and fresh distilled water poured in .
It was now determined to prove the apparatus , by raising the column of water by condensed air ; and for this purpose the pump of a soda-water machine was connected , by means of a flexible pipe and screw , with a collar ( x ) fixed for the purpose upon the arch of the boiler .
As the condensation pro.ceeded , the column of water rose steadily , till it issued with considerable force from the aperture of a small glass tube fixed into the stop-cock on the summit , and bent to an angle to prevent the waste water trickling down the apparatus .
When the force of the jet began to decrease , the stop-cock was closed , and the cock on the boiler at the same moment opened .
After a short interval the column of water began slowly to decline , and appeared to boil violently from the extrication of air from its surface .
This effervescence continued for more than an hour , with decreasing force ; and the formation of air bubbles could be perceived nearly half way down the column .
After eighteen hours , the water stood in the tube at about thirty feet eight inches from the level of the water in the cistern .
Advantage was taken of this opportunity to ascertain the relative capacities of the tube and cistern ; and it was found , by careful measurement , that the fall of this quantity in the tube occasioned a rise in the level of that in the cistern of one inch and a half , affording a correction of very nearly 0-04 inch for ten inches .
Everything having been thus prepared for the final experiment , a fire was lighted under the boiler at 11 A.M. of the 13th of June , and at half-past one pure steam issued with force from the cock ( s ) on the top of the boiler .
When this was closed , the water began to rise slowly and steadily in the tube , oscillating at times about one inch and a half .
More than an hour elapsed before the column of liquid reached the thermometer ( c , d ) at the upper end , when its temperature was found to vary from 85 ?
to 90 ? .
It still continued to rise very gently , till it issued with some force in an unbroken jet from the small tube which had been adjusted to the stop-cock .
Three pints of water were thus drawn off , and the thermometer rose to 110 ? .
The stop-cock on the top of the tube was then closed , and the cock on the top of the boiler simultaneously opened .
The steam rushed forth from the latter with great violence , and after a considerable interval the columtn began very gently to fall from the top , without any boiling , or the slightest indication of air-bubbles .
When it appeared to be stationary , the sealing was attempted ; the small part of the tube , to which the stop-cock was attached , was successfully drawn off and closed without the slightest disturbance of the column of water ; but in cooling it unfortunately cracked .
The fissure thus occasioned was very minute , but rendered the resumption of the whole process necessary .
The most difficult part of this to effect , was the drawing off and contraction of the tube to fit it again for sealing .
It was determined , upon consideration , not to replace the stop-cock , but to rely upon the pressure of the operator 's thumb to cut off the communication with the external air during the sealing .
As it was necessary to the operation that the tube should be turned upon its axis , it was unpacked from the stuffing-box of the boiler , and loosened from its different supports ; and everything was again successfully adjusted with great dexterity by Mr. N1 !
EWMAN , who overcame the difficulties of these various proocesses with the greatest skill .
It would be tedious to repeat the further steps of the progress ; the boilirfg was condtucted precisely in the manner which I have just described , and the tube was finally and permanently closed on the 18th of June .
Not the slightest speck or air-bubble has from that moment been detected in the column of water .
5 45 While the water in the boiler , which now constitutes the cistern of the barometer , was still warm , a quantity of the purest castor oil ( Oleum Ricini ) , was poured into it till the surface was covered to the depth of half an inch ; this was done for the purpose of cutting off the communication of the mnc atmosphere with the water , and with the view of preventing the absorption of the air .
Some of the same oil was poured upon the surface of some distilled water in a wide-mouthed glass vessel , and being lightly covered with paper was set by in a closet , that any change might be detected to which it might be liable under such circumstances .
The adjustment of a scale was the next object of importance .
For this purpose a hollow brass rod ( 1 , 2 ) was prepared of 3ths of an inch diameter , and adjusted by means of a screw at the upper end to a flat ruler of brass ( 2 , 3 ) divided into inches , and cairrying a vernier ( 4 ) by which the hundredth part of an inch is easily read off , and which is moveable from the outside of the case of the instrument by means of a rack and screw ( 5 ) .
The same rack and screw also moves a brass screen ( 6 , 7 ) , which rises and falls with the vernier and protects the tube from the heating influence of the breath or hand ; a small thermometer is inserted into tbhis screen .
The rod was measured from a scale formerly belonging to the late Mr. CAVENDISH , and now the property of Mr. NEWMAN , by marking it with a beam-compass at intervals of two feet , and afterwards repeating the process at intervals of sixteen inches .
The two measures corresponded to the one twentieth of an inch ; the difference being found to depend upon the multiplication of a small error in laying down the sixteen inches , and corrected accordingly .
The rod was next placed in the case of the barometer by the side of the tube , being made to pass through the wooden stays of the tube , in which it can freely move .
At its lower end an ivory point of known length was fixed by which it was very carefully brought into exact contact with the surface of the oil in the cistern ; the flat scale was then carefully adjusted to its upper end , and it was fixed at the lower end by screws to the top of the copper cistern .
The columni of water was thus found to stand exactly thirty-three feet four inches , or four hundred inches above the level of the fluid in the cistern .
This , then , is the neutral point of the instrument , above or below which a correction of ?
'02 inch must be made for every ascent or descent of five 546 inches in the tube .
The whole instrument has been enclosed in an exterior ornamental case resembling an architectural column .
The pedestal ( A , B ) conceals the boiler with its brick-work , and upon the capital ( C , D ) stands a glass-case including that part of the tube to which the oscillations are confined , and the apparatus for measuring them .
As much interest will attach to the accurate comparison of the water-barometer with the mercurial barometer , it is of great importance that several corrections should be attended to in the first reading of their respective heights , to reduce the columns to the same invariable circumstances under which alone such comparison can be properly made ; for this purpose the variations of the density of the liquids , and the expansion of the scales , from variations of temperature , together with the capillary action of the tubes , must be taken into account .
To facilitate this object , I have constructed the two following Tables of double entry ; by which the observations may be reduced to the temperature of 40 ?
( 39 ?
'38 ) or that of the maximum density of water , in which the expansion of the brass scales is also allowed for ; which is a correction of considerable amount in the long scale of the water-barometer .
The data upon which these Tables have been calculated are as follows : 1st , The specific gravity of water at different temperature , as determined by the experiments of HALLSTROM , taken from Dr. THOMSON'S late work upon Heat and Electricity , p. 28 .
2nd , The determination of the linear expansion of brass at '0000104 per degree of FAHRENHEIT .
The height of the column is assumed to be in inverse proportion to the specific gravity ; and the correction to the maximum density at 40 ?
( or more correctly 39 ?
'38 ) is calculated accordingly .
From this correction is deducted , or to it is added , the expansion or contraction of the brass scale on either side of 600 , calculated on the preceding datum .
547 Table of Corrections for Temperature for the Water-Barometer .
Standard Temperature of Scale 60 ? .
Maximum Density of Water 40 ? .
Temperature .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
Exact .
Approx .
350 360 370 380 390 400 410 35-6 35 --101 --103 -106 --108 -*112 ---115 --118 39-38 40 --072 --074 --077 -*079 -*081 --083 -*085 44'6 45 -*073 -'075 -*077 -*079 -081 --'083 --085 50 50 -*113 -*115 -118 -122 --124 -*128 -*132 55'4 55 --191 -*195 --201 --206 --211 -*217 -*223 59 60 --258 --264 --272 --279 --286 --294 -*302 64-4 65 --398 --409 -*420 --431 --443 --454 --466 69-5 70 -*575 -*590 -*606 --623 --639 -*656 -*673 75'2 75 --786 --808 -'831 --853 -*876 -898 --921 With regard to the capillary action of the tube , which of course is in the opposite direction to that of the mercurial barometer , Dr. YOUNG has calculated * that the central elevation for water in a tube of which the diameter is '49964 inch ( which is almost exactly the diameter of the tube within the range of the oscillations , ) is '035 , and the marginal elevation '172 .
In my first use of the instrument I conceived that the observation was made with most certainty by bringing the vernier to coincide with the marginal elevation of the water ; and in the following observations the correction of --*17 has been applied accordingly .
Mr. HuDsoN has since shown me , that by reflecting the light upon the column from behind , the observation from the centre is made with the greatest priecision ; and in some observations which have been kindly furnished by that gentleman , the correction of --03 only has been applied .
The difference of the two corrections deduced from the calculation of Dr. YOUING as above , agrees very nearly with the difference of the two readings upon the barometer when carefully observed .
As the usual Tables for the thermomettic correction of the mercurial barometer are calculated for 32 ?
, I considered it necessary to calculate a fresh Table for the temperature of 40 ?
; that both the water and the mercury might be reduced to the same standard temperature .
The dilatation in volume of mercury per degree of FAHRENHEIT has been taken , on the authority of MM .
DULONG and PETIT , at '0001001 of the volume at 32 ? .
And the height of the column has been assumed to be in the ratio of the volume at 400 to the volume at the observed temperature .
To the correction thus obtained has been added , or from it has been deductedj the expansion or contraction of the brass scale on either side of the standard temperature 60 ? .
Table of Corrections for Temperature for the Mercurial Barometer .
Standard Temperature of Scale 60 ? .
Volume of Mercury at 40 ?
Standard .
TempeInches .
Inches .
Inches .
Incies .
Inches .
Inches .
rature .
28 .
28'5 29 .
29.5 30 .
30'5 35 +-007 + 00 008 + ' 008 +'008 +*008008 40 --005 --006 -006 -*006 -'006 -006 45 --018 -'018 --018 --018 -'019 -*019 50 -*030 -*031 --032 -*032 -033 -033 55 --043 --043 -'044 -045 -*046 -*046 60 --056 --057 --058 -*059 -*060 --061 65 --069 -*070 --071 -*072 -*074 -*075 70 1 -*008 -08 -084 -*085 --087 --088 75 --094 --096 -*097 --099 -*101 --102 i~~~~~~~ iliii Il i - ' ... i ii ii The mercurial barometer , with which the following comparison has been made , is of a portable construction , and has been fully described on a former occasion* .
It is the first to which a platinum guard was ever applied , and it still remains perfectly free from air .
The correction of +'044 for capillary action has been experimentally verified , upon more than one occasion , by comparison with a barometer of half an inch bore , in which no such correction is necessary .
I have not hitherto had it in my power to institute such a series of observations as I think the interest of the subject would have justified ; as I have been obliged to depend upon my own exertions , or of those who from pure love of science have been willing to assist me in this laborious drudgery , at such intervals as the pressure of other engagements would permit .
Of these by far the most important are the hourly observations of Mr. HIUDSON , which , with the assistance of some members of his family , he had the resolution to persevere in for fifteen days , and which he has communicated to the Society .
Prior to these , were the following observations made at my request by Mr. ROBERTON in the months of August and September 1830 , at different hours of the day ; but generally at 9 A.M. and 3 P.M. They include a very considerable range of temperature ( from 570 to 740 ) , and serve to test the accuracy of the instruments brought into comparison shortly after the completion of the water-barometer , and that of the different corrections which have been applied to them .
The first column of the following Table records the date , and the second the hour of the observations .
The third column contains the temperature of the internal thermometer ( c , d ) , and the fourth that of the external thermometer ( 6 , 7 ) .
The fifth shows the corrected height of the water-barometer ; te sixth the temperature of the of ththermometer attached to the mercurial barometer .
This , it will be observed , sometimes differs several degrees from the former ; and , when this is the case , the mean has been taken as the temperature by which to correct the length of the scale ; as standing at the bottom of the column , it most probably indicated the temperature of the lower extremity .
The seventh column contains the corrected height of the mercurial barometer .
In the eighth column I have placed the height of the column of water reduced to the corresponding height in mercury .
As the basis of this calculation , I have taken the specific gravity of mercury at 400 ?
, 13*624 , as determined , at my request , by Mr. FARADAY at the time when I fitted up the large mercurial barometer belonging to the Society .
The ninth column exhibits the differences of the two columns , or the amount of the depression of the column of water by the included vapour , expressed in parts of an inch of mercury .
By the side of these differences I have placed , in the tenth column , the elasticity of aqueous vapour due to the temperature of the surface water in the barometer , calculated from the data of Dr. UR .
The eleventh column exhibits the differences of the two preceding .
The mean results of every ten observations are also added to the register .
The most striking result of this comparison is , the almost exact coincidence in the first ten observations of the elasticity of the aqueous vapour , derived from the experiment , with the amount as determined from calculation in a range of temperature from 58 ?
to 74 ?
; the differences in the eleventh column being much less than I should have anticipated , even from the necessary uncertainty in ascertaining the temperature by the thermometers .
The remaining series exhibit larger and rather increasing differences , but such only as might fairly be supposed to come within the limits of errors of observation .
It must also be observed that they were taken at greater intervals apart , a circumstance which I shall presently show may have had a considerable influence upon the results .
The differences in the last column are , however , all , except the first , marked with the positive sign + , denoting that the depression from observation is invariably greater than that which would have resulted from the calculated elasticity of the vapour .
This would rather indicate some constant error in some of the data of the calculation than the necessarily fluctuating errors of observation ; and we should only have to assume the specific gravity of mercury as 13*590 instead of 13,624 , and the mean difference would disappear .
There can , therefore , I think , be no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that , considering the difficulty and conmplexity of the several adjustments , and the variety of the necessary corrections applied to the observations , the whole arrangement was even more perfect than could have been expected , up to the time of this first register .
It was a principal object with me , as soon as possible to obtain a good and uninterrupted series of observations during a long period , taken at least once a day at some fixed hour ; and for this purpose I engaged a careful workman of Mr. NEWMAN'S , who had been instructed in the reading of the different instruments , to keep a register of their indications at 7 A.M. in the summer months , and 7 , A.M. in the winter .
By a careful comparison of his readings with those of others , he was found to be fully competent to the task .
The following register contains these observations for one year and a half , commencing in October 1830 , and ending in March 1832 .
They have been corrected in the same way as the last , and the same kind of comparison instituted .
The depression of the water-barometer has been worked out daily for the first two and the last months ; but for the intermediate months I have satisfied myself with making the calculation for the mnonthly mnean results .
It will be observed how very gradually the differences , recorded in the last columns of the months , increase ; till , in the month of March 1832 , they average e551 ; more than half an inch of mercury , indicating a mean depression of the water-barometer of more than seven inches .
This result is further confirmed by a comparison of the monthly mean heights of the two instruments , and by observing that in the month of March 1832 , when the differences for each day are exhibited , the greatest differences occur with the highest barometer , as would happen from the greater compression of included air under such circumstances .
The regularity of this secondary effect is indeed very remarkable .
This unfortunate result not being doubtful , I determined to open the boiler for the purpose of throwing some light , if possible , upon the cause .
Dr. PROUT , to whose valuable advice I have been greatly indebted in all the previous arrangements , did me the favour of assisting at this examination .
Upon removing the cover , we found that a portion of the liquid had by some means escaped , as , although the column of water stood considerably below the neutral point , the ivory point was not in contact with it .
We carefully measured its distance , and found it to be 03 inch , to which , as the barometer stood at 385*94 inches , must be added 0 05 inch for the difference from the neutral point ; and the amount 035 inch will be the quantity of the fluid deficient .
Upon examining the oil upon the surface , we found that it had undergone a very remarkable change .
It was nearly covered with large clots of a mucilaginous-looking substance , which , in places , reached quite through to the water beneath ; so that upon moving them aside the latter was uncovered .
Upon the top of this , in various parts , were drops of an aqueous fluid , of a tenacious consistence , which had a very decided sweet taste , and resembled the substance which is formed during the process of saponification , to which the name of Glycerine has been given .
There was also some carbonaceous matter , but not more than might probably be accounted for from depositions from the atmosphere .
All these matters , with a great portion of the remaining oil , were carefully skimmed off , and the water beneath was folnd perfectly bright and transparent ; there were no signs of metallic corrosion in any part , and every portion of the boiler , with its cover and brass-work , was as bright as on the day when they were put together .
571 We next examined the portion of oil and water which had been set by in a glass vessel for the purpose of watching any changes which it might undergo .
This we found in a very different state .
The stratum of oil upon the surface was rather more than an inch thick , and in this it differed from that in the boiler , which was not more than half an inch .
The great body of it was perfectly bright and pure , and did not seem , from its taste , to have undergone any change , or to have acquired any rancidity .
At the point of contact with the water it appeared to have undergone change , and to be separated from it by a tough film of the same mucilaginous-looking substance which we had found in the boiler .
Upon agitating the glass , this film could be bent upwards without breaking ; and a kind of fold was made in it of so tenacious a quality as to be some time before it again accommodated itself to the level of the liquid .
Upon examination with a lens , it appeared to contain minute air-bubbles .
These air-bubbles may have originated from some decomposition of the oil or water ; but they were by no means numerous , and it is not at all improbable that they were the remains of a thin stratum of air included between the oil and the water ; as there would be no perfect contact between the two liquids near the surface of the water .
We next placed the glass , with its contents , under the receiver of an air-pump , and upon exhaustion of the air these little bubbles expanded and seemed to lift the film in parts and to escape with some difficulty through the oil .
No air-bubbles , however , were formed in the mass of the subjacent water ; proving that the water had been , in this instance , protected by the oil .
Upon pushing the exhaustion to the utmost , a few insignificant bubbles were indeed extricated from a small flock of dust which had fallen to the bottom of the glass .
A little of the water was then taken out of the boiler in a glass vessel , which still retained a thin stratum of oil upon its surface .
Upon exposing this to the action of the pump , air-bubbles in abundance were extricated from the whole mass , and it swelled up so as nearly to overflow the vessel in which it was contained ; presenting a very marked contrast to the result of the previous experiment , and proving that the water in the boiler must have been strongly impregnated with gaseous matter .
This examination took place on the 13th June , almost exactly two years from the completion of the water-barometer .
Upon consideration of all the circumstances , we were of opinion that the formation of the mucilaginous-looking matter had opened a permeable coinmunication between the water in the boiler and the atmosphere ; by which not only the water was carried off by evaporation , which would account for the deficiency , but the air passed in and was absorbed : and we have little doubt that if the stratum of oil had been thicker , the change would have been confined to the lower surface , and the water would have been perfectly protected , as was the portion set aside in the glass .
I shall now proceed to notice two or three more circumstances of interest , which I remarked during my observation of the water-barometer .
It is extremely curious to watch its action in windy weather ; the column of water appears to be in a perpetual motion , resembling the slow action of respiration .
During a heavy gale of wind on the 16th of November 1830 , I made the following observations : Thermometers .
Trime~ .
WaterMercurial i ntern .
Extern .
Barometer .
Barometer .
Intern .
Extern .
hm Inches .
Inches .
2 30 56 55-5 387-87 29-092 2 45 ... ... . .
387 59 29-090 3 0 ... ... . .
387-44 29-090 3 15 ... ... .
387-28 29-090 4 0 ... ... 387-64 29-090 4 15 ... ... .
387-85 29-090 About half-past two , the maximum range of the oscillations was a about 0b28 inch ; about half an hour later , one gust of wind caused an oscillation of 0m43 inch , and the minor oscillations were generally nearer the lower than the higher extreme .
At four o'clock the movement became sensibly less in extent , and the mean point of the oscillations began to rise , and , as I ventured to predict , the wind very soon began to abate .
It became very suddenly calm , and the next day was very fine .
The time of this change , as indicated by the instrument , was certain within five minutes .
On the subjoined scale ( Plate XX .
) I have laid down the hourly observations of Mr. HUDSON of the water and mercurial barometers obligingly communicated to me by that gentleman .
They have not been corrected ; but the corrections would be of little importance in the rough comparison which I at present design to institute .
A very slight examination will show that there DANIELLb ON THE WATER-BAROMETER .
are many considerable oscillations of the aqueous column which are totally lost in the mercurial , and will prove that much curious information with regard to atmospheric changes might be derived from a long-continued series of such observations .
The most important result , however , and that which alone would have amply repaid all the labour expended upon the subject , is the fact pointed out by the observations of Mr. IHUDSON , that the water-barometer precedes by one hour the barometer of half-inch bore , and the latter the mountain barometer of 0*15-inch bore by the same interval , in their indications of the 1horary oscillations ; showing that wXhile philosophers arle disputing about the hours of the maxirna and minima , much depends upon the construction of the instruments observed ; and proving the necessity , which I long ago pointed out , of making these delicate observations with instrumtents which have been compared with accurate and kinown standards .
This comparative sluggishness of the mercurial barometer , when compared with the water , also proves that the difference between the two , when reduced by calculation of their specific gravities to the same expression , can only at times approximatively determine the elasticity of the included vapour ; and that such determination must always be liable to a small error from this circumstance .
Should the Council of the Societybhereafter come to the conclusion that there is enough of interest in the subject to induce them to prosecute it further , I am of opinion that the water-barometer might be reboiled and resealed without much risk ; and I think that if a stratum of oil of four or five inches depth were afterwards poured upon the surface of the water , there would be little irisk of the air again insinuating itself within it .
574

