]\gt ; Profs .
Reinold and Rucker on the [ June Fig. 4 .
' ' giant cell\ldquo ; fro1ll the ascending convolution in man .
obtain from recent brain by menns of tho new freezing microtome .
meters .
Fig. 6 .
from the scellding fronffi convolution in a of senile atropl ined , means of the new freezing microtome , from fresh brain .
tion of connective cells of the upper cortical layers is seen invadi the vascular tracts nervous elements .
Fig. C ) .
ofmoeboid connective cells from the of the ascendi fronffi convolution , in a case of enile n ) .
Section obtained frc brain } itnd te sing .
III .
On the Thickness of Soap \ldquo ; By A. W. REINOL : M.A. , Professor of Physics in the Royal Naval Colleg .
W. Professor of in the Yorkshirc College of Lccds .
by R. B. , F.R.S. , Professor of Experimental Ph losophy in the Univcrsity of Oxford .
Rcceived June 13 , Attempts ve from time to time been by 1 physicists obtain from the phenomena of rity , or from iollS on liqui films , an tion of the magnitude of the radius of tion .
The atlfhors this note hnve , rith t stllne object iu viev tely made a eries of GXerimcts to detcrmine the ' the resistance offered to the electric ctlrrent by a ly thickhom genous body ) aries i the section is or not obeyed by liquid films , as any apparent rture from migl bo to indicate of homogeneity , ' that the thicl-ness of tb film comparable with the nitude of the dius of moleculn attraction .
investigatious on this point not Jlced fc ; but course of their vork t made some obser iollS on the forms of soap films , which th venture to lay before th Itoyal in note .
A ilIn , iIlclined fo the ontd so ils to become ) duaJl thillncr by the descent of the liqnid , ] ] , con ditions , ) , as in the central portion of it is only possible to a supel'ior limit to the thick css of the portion of such film ; but there is no doubt that tho bdarv of the of the ffim increases } rapidity .
a rule trncc the bluc of first ordel .
be ' hen lh colour ncet the ) hite of firs of : is if th of of Thickness of Soap Films .
335 which it is viewed , the position of the boundary of the black remains iIed , though that of each of the other colours is every notion .
More frequentlv , ever , presenco of colours of ths order , and some of those of the order , can be dected by means of a roscope , and to the ppear to be wantiug eell the blaek and the } hich immediately ucoeeAs it .
The constant recurrence of the phenomenoll a mentioned , the very rapid change in the ] lless of iilm in ]leigh)ourhood of the an veen the JJickness of the latter and the llnr constitution of tbo liquid .
Any nvestigation as to lvhether such oxion e must , it nppears , be jommenced by seeking the to the ving ( stions : 1 .
Do very all in ness occtlr in the films ?
2 .
Is the black pol.tion of the uniform in kness ?
3 .
If so , is the thickness the saule for films with the iquid ?
The atlthors have , with a single and ith the form of npparatus mployed , obtained resuIts hich , sulliciently numerous to nable them to give geJleral n to , as they believe , a hitlJerto unsuspected ) ) ifed by liquid thinnimg ]ldel .
the iniluence of , and seem to llerit furthel study .
The method employed to sure sOLlsly t of the films , and the breadths he bmds colour they displayed .
The liquid used was JM .
Plateau 's " " lnido g ] dissolvin by veight of oleate adding3 volumes of this to of .
To improve the , 3 pnrts ] ] dissolved in every 100 of along tlto of The films which submilted to } shape , and vs el.e formed two of nnetcr placed one vertically ovel .
the other .
itnd making the electricffi coullexio]/ s ] vessel , bout 1 centims. high ) an ebonite of the , if placed on the top of the vessol , ) could be ) ated or depressed , passed through the larger porliou bit on , in the CeIlt labS with to ) 1 the of as solder ) cylinder .
tter ) of @36 Profs .
Reinold and Rucker on the [ June foreign metal which might give riss to local galvanic action when current passed through the film .
At the bottom of the glass vesselw , a small porcelain dish containing mercury , in which was plnced a ] atinu .
crucible , the lower part of which was amalgamated to ensure good tact with the mercury .
The diameter of the mouth of the crucible as nearly as possible the same as that of the platinum cylinder abol mentioned .
To obviate the possibility of the film thinning by porat , ion from its surfac6 , a little of the liquid used was placed in } bottom of the glass vessel , and the platinum crucible was also filled the liquid to within about 1 millim. of its upper edge .
The cylindric{ films were produced in the following manner .
A plane film was forme on the platinum cylinder , which , when the cover was on vessel , was blown out into a bubble through the in -rubbaer tubing .
Th. bubble , when large enough , adhered to the edge of the platinum and both the quantity of air within it and the position of the crucibJ were then so regulated as to make it as accurately cylindrical as The edge of the platinum cylinder was levelled by altering the positio of the whole apparatus until all points on its edge were , as wfl determined by the help of a cathetometer , in the same horizontal plan With this arrangement it was easy to measure the resistance of th film .
A binding-screw on the smaller portion of the ebonite cove was connected by a platinum with the mercury on which platinum crucible rested , while another binding-screw on the brass tub formed the point of connexion with the upper electrode .
The resistano was measured by means of a Wheatstone 's Bridge ( of the Post-Oflic pattern ) , and as it continually changed , and nearly slowly bu steadily increaoed , the known resistance was made up to a certai ] amount , and the moment when the unknown resistance reached amount noted .
As the resistances to be sured wers very large , a box of resistance coils was introducedinto one arm of the bridge containing ten resistance coils oabout 100,000 ohms each .
Tfie actual resistance available fo purposes of measurement was thus greater than 1,000,000 ohme and by the multiplying power of the instrument resistances up to times this amount could be measured .
The vanometer used was ' refiecting instrument of 5000 ohms resistance .
In the arm of the which contained the film-resistance a commutatol ' was , and time the key was depressed the direction of the current was chmged .
this means error due to polarization was reduced to a minimum .
battery consisted of three Grove 's cells .
The electrical observations were made in a room adjoiniJlg th in which the film under experiment was placed , at the same time second observer measured with a cathetometer the breadths of the band , of colour exhibited by the film .
This operation was repeated at leasl ice , and the time of each observation was noted , so the rate 01 I Thickness of Soap Films .
837 cent of the line of separation veen each pair of colours could be termined and its position calculated at the moment when any particular ctrical oation made .
In this the velocity of the motion of each colour supto be uniform een ions .
This supposition as to a certain extent jnstilied by the fact several measureents were , the alculated for intervals of me differed but little for th thinner of the films .
In the thicker a irregularity was , but the determination of position of the dary b ) een colours as also of less im)rtance .
In making these ations iscreell was behind the , and the telescope of the cathetometer 11 as direcled to a porhon of le film illummated by means of a mirror so placed that the ection of le incident light vns perpendicular to the optic of the telescope .
he film ) thus by incident , and the refractivs of the liquid bein the ness corresponding to any olour be deduced by meaus of the table of ton 's rings given in Vatts 's ' Dictionary of Chemistry .
' The inde.x as found to be for menn rays. .
was determined , from the liquid used , hich made a week efore the experiments but from allother freshly made solution of recisely the same composition .
This course rendered necessary the fact that such solutions pidly become rbid , to the forma[on of precipitate hich cannot be sufficiently removed to enable the quid to be used such a purpose .
Reading for the top of the liquid linder ) bottom , .
Profs .
Reinold and Rucker on the [ June Table I. is an example of the way in which the results required ' deduced from the experiments .
Column I. gives the cathetometer rea .
ings in millims. for the positions of the colours whose names are plao opposite .
The orders of the colours are indicated by the numbers placed them .
The readings for a particular colour were obtained by placing point of iJltersection of the cross wires of the telescope in the centre the band of that colour .
In some cases more definite readings could obtained by taIring the line of division between two colours , and such a by writin the names of the two colours ome above the otb with a line between them .
The last colour named is that of the of the film extending to the bottom from the point at which the la ding given was taken .
Column II .
gives a similar set of readings taken a little later .
Column III .
ths differences between corresponding numbers in are II .
, or the distances through which the colours had moved .
Columns .
and , the number of minutes which elapsed between tl first reading given in Column I. and the others given in Columns and II .
Column .
gives the differences between corresponding numbers and , or the number of minutes which elapsed between two observe } tions of the same colour .
Column .
gives the quotients of the numbers in III .
by the sponding numbers in , or the velocity of motion of each colour millims. per minute .
Column VIII .
gives the positions of all the colours ten minutes after first observation ( at which time an electrical obs rvation as made deduced from the previous Columns .
Column IX .
gives the gths of the sections of the .
comprise between the colours named .
hese are obtained by subtractin the to number in Column VIII .
from the reading for the top of the cylinde1 viz. , each of other llumbers from that above it , and by subtrae ting from the last number the leading for the bottom of the cylinder , Column X. gives in millionths of a millim. the for cor responding to arious c 's named .
These data were sufficient to enable the uthors to represent cnlly the shapes of the ] , and they annex a number curves drawn for this , of that numbered .
is obtaiue from the set of experiments given in Table I. Since the length of the liquid cylinder ] lims .
, it is neoessar !
to represent the thickness on a much larger scale thau that used for th length .
No lculation is needed to allow for the refrac.tive index or the { lgle of incideYlcG } ] , since , by ) these tomc 1 befol the of film be calcu Thickness of Soap Films .
389 M ) , the ratios of the numbers given in Column X. old not be ; the only change vould be in the on which the thickness is presented .
The topmost ttnd lowest points of the curves refer to the ffiS of the films contact with the uppel ftnd er cylinders , and the icknesses at these ctnd all intermediate are represented by the orizontal ctnces between the points on the and the vertical nes near them .
For the reasons given , lines le thicknesses of the cylinders are magnified 5000 times more than those presenting their lengths . .
I. to .
( p. 340 ) represent the forms ssumed by a film the hours named ou them .
They to the phenomena geneally namely , that after the of the the colours of he portion of the film in contact ith it so to Tease in thicl-ness , and arc , as it , absorbed by those ] elow them , although in no cnse does of film become han any other part situated a loner than itself .
At the same ime , ever , the lowel .
of the film to become thi1mer , that at last the hole one miform tint , which changes slon lie , and sometimes 1ts to that the whole fihu become thicker .
This ] lomcIlon is prob , ably caused by nbsorption of noisture from the air , though of the upper part of the bove refel.red to be due , in , to the fact that the t'ormation of the black of the film mnst the rapid removal of the superfluous liquid from that tiou i immediate it .
Fig. .
represents a film the of the was , at the time of the ation , rising iustend of The last four figures represent films hich ]lot ] thin to exhibit the black ; the upper part of fig. X. the time of the observation , becolning An inspection of these is sullic.ient to prove that , as a rule , the films did not increase ] in to , but that regions of tively rapid incre of thickness alternated .
The inclination of ' of the to seems often suddenly to become much or bout a ickness corresponding to 20 small divisions on the or to the ] ) of the second order , as seen througl ] of but none the changes in thiclcness so ) as phce at the lower edge of the .
One of ll ) ( ono of those drawn ) displayed of ] ) ] ) hile the rest of the film appeal.ed to of the { I ) IS we suppose the upper rt of he ) is ) ently with its scllt by denoe , the film nlusf in ) Profs .
Reinold and Rucker on the [ June 2 : Thickness of Soap Films .
Profs .
Reinold and Rucker on the [ June that thickness so suddenly that the colours between the black and go of the third order were quite invisible .
The forms of the coloured portions of the films having been thus mined , the authors were now to calculate their resistances .
of a ring of the of length , radius , and of unifo1 thickness , might be taken to be , where is the specific sistance of the liquid , which determined to be 222 ohms at temperature which the experiments were conducted .
The radii , both of the tinum ring and crucible , were determined means of the thetomefer .
were found to be very nearly circul and their mean diameters were millims. and millin respectively .
The mean of theso , or millims. , taken to be the value of .
Since the thickness of each little l.ing not uniform , the value taken for was the mean value of the thickness of its upper and lower edges .
It can easily be shown that the resistamc so calculated would be a little less than the true resistance , and a tion factor was introduced , the value of which is where and itre the numbers above referred to as those the mean which was taken to be the thickness of the film .
The valus of factor , which depends only on the ratio of to , was calculated for sever values of ratio , and the numbers required were obtained by interpol , tion .
The values of for the cass considered are given in Colun XI .
of Table I. , and Column XII .
contains the values of the correctit factor .
Hence , introducing the corrections for the oblique incidence of tl light and for the refractive index , the resistance of the cylinder given by the xpression The resistance so calculated was subtracted from the total observe resistance of the film , and the number thus obtained was assumsd give the of the black portion .
Table II .
gives the resuIts of the experiments .
Column I. gives the time at which the observations of the electrical sistance were made .
Column II .
the breadth of the band of black .
Column III .
the names and orders of the colours ding to tb thinnest and thickest portions of the coloured parts of the cylind ' when seen by light incident at hickness of Soap Films .
848 Oolumn .
gives the obseryed resistance of the cylindrical film exessed iu megohms .
TABLE II .
Columu .
the of the ) I described , and in cgol ) Profs .
Reinold and Rucker on the [ June 1 Column .
is obtained by subtracting the numbers in .
from tl corresponding numbers in .
and dividing by the correspondin numb in II .
, and thus gives in megohms the resistance of a rin of the portion of the film 1 millim. in breadth .
The numbers in Column II .
are bracketed when they were obtained 1 means of the same two series of measurements with the cathetometer , are thus dependent on the same observations .
Numbers not were obtained by totally independent optical and electrical surement It will be seen from this Table that five different films were study upon five different days ; and that , in ] , 36 determinations of the resis of the black portions of the films were made .
The highest and the lowest values obtained from individual experiment differ from one another by about 11 per cent. of the mean value ; but tb means of the results of each day 's observations display a closeragreement Thus mean of the values obtained from Cylinder I. is , deduced from 19 observations .
II .
, , , , , 1 , , III .
, , , , , 4 \ldquo ; , The maximum discrepancy is about 5 per cent. of the mean betweel the greatest and least values .
The figures , however , give results when grouped in ferent ways .
Thus , taking the means of the obtained when th ' gths of the black part of the film lay between certain limits , it found that when the black part was and millims. , the mean value was Again , the results according to the thiclmess of the coloured portion of the film hich appeared to be in immediate with the black , it was found that when the colour of that portion , as viewed through the telescope , was the blue of the second order , the mean value was green , , , , , , , , orange , , , , , , , , red , , , , , , , , green of third order , , , , , [ @n ] Thickness of Soap Films .
345 The first of these numbers is considerably larger than the others , as it blmost entirely deduced from the high values obtained dnring the early eriments on the first cylinder .
hese eXperimentS are , vever , prived of the significance they might seemed to possess the fact that the only other ations taken with the blue of ] order in contact with the gave for the resistance of the tter the normal value , while , on the other , high values were one or two occnsions obtained when the part of the film the black was sufficiently thick to show the orange of the second rder .
It is not easy to decide whether the different values obtained at various imes correspond to real differences in the esses of the black porions of the films or are due to errors of experiment .
The resistances measured were , as has been seen .
very high ; but ex)eriments made for the purpose proved that the galvanometer ' ensitive to at least 1 per cent. of the total resisfance sured .
The most probable cause of error is the fact the edge of the black loes not vays lie in horizontal plane .
Thus on one occasion one end the boundary veen the black and the coloured of the film as )bserved to sink no less millim. in a few seconds .
In one or two ; ases where this fact was noted , the number en for length of ths is a mean of readings taken in parts ; but it difficult determine whether the edge furthest from the as or below that nearest to him .
This source of el.rorw old , of course , bo greater importance as the of the of the film liminished ; but the nitude of these devi fttiollS from horizontality xppeared to become greater as that breadth incrcased .
Without , however , making any ances for { hese uses of , the certainly , for the used , \mdash ; .
That the variations in of the bl portion of the films were but a small fraction of hickness . .
That the thicknless is of the breadth of blnck ring . .
That it is also indepdt of the of thnt portion of the film which appears to the eye to be in immcdiate contact with it .
The last question on hich the { tlthors } ) to touch is that of the absolute ness o the black portion of the ]leir experiments only enable them to lculnte tJless o the ] ) } that Ohm 's law holds good , l.esult be sling .
The meall of all their experiments es for the of of the black film 1 millim. broad , 1 , ohnlB ; hence , ) of the cylinder is miJlims .
, it is to , if law holds , the thickness of the film must be 12 of a nlilli m , or about one third of the thickness corresponding to the begiuning of the black for liquid submitfed to experiment .

