10 .
" Researches into the Identity of the Existences or Forces , Light , Heat , Electricity and Magnetism .
" By John Goodman , M.D. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. Received March 7 , 1851 .
In this communication the author describes the effects that were produced on a moderately sensitive galvanometer by exposure to the sun 's rays , and which were observed by him during a period of four months , commencing on the 14th of November , 1850 .
The instrument is described as consisting of forty-six turns of covered copper wire , 23th of an inch in diameter .
The helix is blackened with ink at its southern extremity , and has a single magnetized sewingneedle suspended by about sixteen inches of silken fibre in its centre .
The dial , which-is of card-board , and divided into the usual number of degrees , rests upon the upper surface of the helix , and shades it from the ordinary light or sun 's rays , except at its extremities , and occasionally some portions of the lower bundle of wires ; and when the sun is very low the rays may be seen also to illumine to some extent the surface of the upper bundle .
The indicator is formed of a slender filament of light wood in the usual manner , and the whole is enclosed in a glass:shade .
This instrument was placed for experiment in a window having a southern aspect ; and whilst the sun was strongly shining upon it , it was frequently observed that there could not be obtained , either on account of vibrations or the erroneous condition of the instrument , any true indications .
On shading the instrument from the sun 's rays by a screen , the vibrations ceased , and the needle again adjusted itself north and south .
On removing the screen the needle began again to vibrate , and was soon discovered to become stationary at some distance from zero , indicating the transmission of a current in the helix .
This deflection of the needle was soon found to be always , under the same circumstances , in the same direction , and to give indications of a current corresponding to the brightness of the sun .
This action appeared to depend upon the incidence of the sun 's rays upon the south extremity , and some of the lower or upper bundle of wires only of the helix ; for when they began to illumine the opposite extremity , either very slight indications , or a neutral result , constant vibrations , or the movement of the needle some degrees in the opposite direction , were always observed .
The maximum deflection , at any time attainable by the galvanometer , when the sun was quite unclouded , was about 120 , generally only 10 ? .
It may be observed that in all these experiments the power of the rays was probably somewhat diminished , by passing though the glass pane of the window , and through the glass shade of the instrument itself .
In order to show that the effect was not thermo-electric action , the extremities of the helix were removed from their mercury cups and wrapped in paper , so as to exclude the mercurialized portion of the copper from the action of the sun 's rays ; but no alteration occurred in the ordinary results of the experiments .
There is , more .
over , the author considers , no evidence on record of any thermoelectric action ensuing from the application of heat to copper wire alone , nor without the formation of a complete electrical circuit .
But in these experiments hitherto the completion of the circuit had not been attempted .
During the course of the experiments the circuit was established by means of a connecting wire between the mercury cups , and the circuit was again and again completed , and as frequently broken , without any deviation occurring in any of the results , either during the progression , stationary condition , or decline of the needle .
That these phenomena were the result of the action of the sun 's rays upon the helix itself , was further shown , from the circumstance that when the sun remained clouded for days together , there was no deflection of the needle ; that when the helix was partly shaded by a pillar , or the window-frame , the instrument indicated an amount of current corresponding to the number of coils of wire illumined ; and that the illumination of the whole bundle of wires at the southern extremity of the helix was necessary to produce the usual results , for when a burning lens of high power was employed to condense the rays and throw them in a focus upon one or two wires only , no deflection of the needle was observed .
It was also further shown that the action of the rays upon the helix was attributable to that portion situate chiefly at the southern extremity , for the whole instrument was in a variety of ways and at different periods shaded from the solar rays ; bet its results were unaffected , unless the south end was obscured , when the needle immediately declined ; or the north end was illumined when the deflections were lessened , or the motion of the needle took place in the opposite direction .
A pile of red-hot burning embers held in the vicinity of one extremity of the helix caused a slight deflection of I ?
, and when held at the opposite extremity , caused a deflection in the opposite direction .
The author states a remarkable circumstance , viz. that vibrations and neutral action were observed during bright sunshine about the 11th of : December , and again on the 23rd of January ; that previous to the former period the deflections of the needle were to the lefthand ; between these two periods they were to the right-hand ; and after the latter period always to the left .
after a given hour of day During the early sun , however , they were to the ight had , and as the sun approached a given altitude , they were invariably to the left-hand .
Deflections observed during the summer season were also to the left-hand ; but those of the early sen were not submitted to the test .
On testing the instrument with a voltaic pair , it was shown that the current passed from south to north above theneedle with the early sun , or when the indicator deflected to the right-h &amp; and , and beneath the needle with the rays which proceeded from a considerable eeva* tion , or when the needle deflected to the left-hand .
In conclusion , the author states that the results of these experii ments evince to his mind more than : ever the unity of force ; and that experimental evidence appears to justify the conclusion at which he has long since arrived , that there is one only , universalforce in not re , which is modified by the accidental and varied conditions to which it Zs subjected , but that its essential nature and characteristics are at all times unchangeably the same .

