IV .
" On the Action of Chloride of Iodine on Iodide of Ethylene and Propylene Gas."-Second , Notice .
By , MAXWELL SIMPSON , M.B. , P.R.S. Received October 23 , 1862 .
In my last communication to the Society* I announced that a body having the composition expressed by the formula C4 H1 I Cl was formed when iodide of ethylene was subjected to the action of chloride of iodine .
I have since ascertained that the same body may be obtained by the direct action of ethylene gas on the latter reagent .
-By this process it can be prepared in large quantity with great facility .
It is only necessary to pass the gas into a watery solution of the chloride of iodine , wash the reddish oil which collects at the bottom of the solution with dilute potash , and distil .
The portion which passes over at about 145 ?
Cent. is pure chloriodide of ethylene .
The specific gravity of the chloriodide at zero is 2'151 .
Heated with an alcoholic solution of potash , it suffers decomposition , iodide of potassium being formed , and a gas given off which burns with a green flame .
This is no doubt chloride of aldehydene ( C/ H13 C1 ) .
This reaction goes far to prove that the true constitution of this body is represented by the formula C , H3 C1 , HI , and not by the formula C H3 I , HI C1 , proposed in my former paper .
Propylene gas derived from glycerine also yields an oil when passed into a solution of chloride of iodine , as I have already stated .
In order to purify this , I found it necessary to distil it in vacuo , rejecting what came over at the beginning and towards the end of the process .
The numbers I obtained on analysing this body prove its composition to be C6 H6 IC1 .
Chloriodide of propylene , as I may call this compound , is when freshly prepared a colourless oil , having an ethereal odour and a sweet taste .
Its specific gravity at zero is 1'932 .
When an effort is made to distil it under atmospheric pressure , it suffers decomposition , hydriodic acid being evolved in large quantity .
Mixed with an alcoholic solution of potash and distilled , it yields iodide of potassium and an oily liquid ( contained in the distillate and separable from it by water ) which is very volatile and burns with a green flame .
This is doubtless chloride of allyle ( C , 1H C1 ) .
The oil formed by the action of chloride of iodine on propylene gas obtained from amylic alcohol , I have not been able to obtain in a fit state for analysis .
The application of the foregoing process to other hydrocarbons would no doubt place in our hands many similar compounds .

