3 .
A paper was also in part read , entitled " On the minute structure of the Skeletons or hard parts of the Invertebrata .
" By W. B. Carpenter , M.D. Communicated by the President .
January 19 , 1843 .
GEORGE RENNIE , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
John Gould , Esq. , Sir Benjamin Heywood , Bart. , and Edward Solly , jun .
, Esq. , were balloted for and duly elected Fellows of the Society .
Captain Edward Belcher , R.N. , was balloted for , but not elected a Fellow of the Society .
The following papers were read : ยง 1 .
" Variation de la Declinaison et Intensite Horizontale observees a Milan pendant vingt-quatre heures consecutives le 25 et 26 Novembre , et le 21 et 22 Decembre 1842 .
" Par Prof. Carlini , For .
Mem. R.S. 2 .
The reading of a paper , entitled " On the minute structure of the Skeletons or hard parts of Invertebrata , " by W. B. Carpenter , M.D. , was resumed and concluded .
The present memoir is the first of a series which the author intends to communicate to the Society , and reiates only to the Mol ?
lusca ; and he proposes , hereafter , to extend his inquiries to the skeletons of the Echinodermata , and the various classes of artieulated animals .
After adverting to the classifications of shells proposed by Mr. Hatchett and Mr. Gray , from the propriety of which he finds reason to dissent , he proceeds to state the results of his microscopic examination of the texture of shells under the several following heads .
First , shells having a prismatic cellular structure , as the Pinna , and which are composed of a multitude of flattened hcxagonal calcareous prisms , originally deposited in continuous layers of hcxagonal cells , and thus constituting a calcified epithelium , analogous with the enamel of the teeth .
Secondly , those con ?
sisting of membranous shell-substance , the basis of which , after the removal of its calcareous portion , presents nothing but a membra ?
nous film , of greater or less consistence , composed of several layers , but without the appearance of any cellular tissue : this membrane the author regards as being derived from the mantle , of which it was originally a constituent part , by the development of nucleolated cells ; and the various corrugations and foldings of which it is sus ?
ceptible in different species , introducing many diversities into the structure of the shells of this class .
Thirdly , shells having a nacreous structure , and exhibiting the phenomena of iridescence ; a property which the author ascribes to the plicated form of the membrane of the shell , combined with a secondary series of transverse corruga ?
tions .
Fourthly , shells exhibiting a tubular structure , formed by cylindrical perforations occurring among the several layers , and varying in diameter from about the 20,000th to the 3500th part of an inch ; but measuring on an average about the 6000th part of an inch , and presenting a striking analogy with the dentine or ivory of the teeth .
The last sections of the paper relate to the epidermis and the colouring matter of shells .
References are made , in many parts of the paper , to illustrative drawings ; which , however , the author has not yet supplied .

