VIII .
Extract of a Letter from Monsr de L'Isle to Mr. Nettleton , containing the actual Mensuration of the Basis proposed p. 42 .
Translated from the French by T. S. M. D. F. R. S. Petersbourg , May 14 , 1737 .
SIR , ***SINCE my last to you , I undertook to measure the Basis which I speak of in Page 42 of this Transaction , and had the good Fortune to measure very exactly on the Ice , by taking the precise Distance between her Imperial Majesty 's Castle at Peterhoff , and the Castle of Doubki , situate opposite to it , on the Coast of Finland .
I found the Distance between the opposite Walls of these Castles to be 74,250 Feet English .
This Basis , being much greater than any of those employed hitherto for this Purpose , gives room to expect great Exactness in the whole Work , when it shall be carried on in the same Manner .
It will at once serve to make a very exact Map of the Bottom of the Gulf of Finland .
It is for the same Design , and for better ordering the Charts of the Coasts of the Baltic , that I intend ( as soon as my Project shall be approved here in its full Extent ) to begin to measure my Triangles along the Coasts of Ingria and Livonia , to the Islands of Dagho , Oesel , &amp;c. And to the end that the Charts of the Places taken in by these Triangles may be finished at the same time , I shall take with me all the Charts of these Parts , which can be had , in order to verify and correct them in my Way .
According as these Charts are thus finished in the best Manner , they may be engraved .
I likewise intend to publish , as soon as possible , all the Operations and Observations I shall have made in my Expedition ; that thus early Benefit may be reaped from them , and that the Public , at the same time the Charts come out , may be acquainted with the Foundation on which they are constructed .
I once thought to have by this time printed the whole Detail of my Operations in taking the Basis , that is , of the Precautions I used in ascertaining it ; but as it was measured in English Feet , which I have a Desire to reduce to this Country Measure , and that it is requisite to consult the original Standards here on this Head , which I have not as yet been able to procure ; for these Reasons , I am obliged to delay the Publication of these first Observations .
***

