510 ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
Coleoptera.\#151 ; By C. O. Waterhouse , Assistant in the Zoological Department , British Museum .
( Plate MIL ) The collection of Coleoptera contained in all 265 specimens .
The number of species obtained is only sixty , and is probably only a small proportion of what could have been discovered had the naturalists been able to devote more time specially to them , and had remained longer in the Island .
All the large groups are represented , and in the following proportions :\#151 ; Geodephaga Mydradephaga Drachelytra Necrophaga Balpicornia Longicornia -JPhytophaga -Pseudo trimera Erotylidce Endomy chides .
1 Lamellicornia - 4 4 Serricomia - 2 8 Malacodermata 7 14 Eeteromera - 2 3 Bhynchophora - 11 A detailed account of the species is given below , it may therefore be sufficient to state here that none of the species are apterous , that the number described as new to science is thirty-three , for eight of which new genera had to be established .
Of the twenty-seven previously described species eight appear to be cosmopolitan or to have a wide distribution .
The following list of species will best show the localities in which each has been met with:\#151 ; Island of Rodriguez only .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas- car .
Other Localities .
Chlaenius olivaceus , C. X Copelatus pulchellus , Sturm .
X Senegal .
Hydatieus signatipennis , Lap .
Senegal , E. Indies .
Rhantus socialis , C. W. - X * Dineutes picipes , C. TV.- X Aleochara parvula , C. X Homalota destituta , C. TV .
X Lithocharis occulta , C. TV .
X Carpophilus mutilatus , Er .
Cosmopolitan .
Carpophilus auropilosus , Woll .
- Madeira .
Carpophilus humeralis , Fab .
X X Natal , China , Java , \amp ; c. Microporum ( n. g. ) nitens , X Prohaenus ( n. g. ) longicornis , C. TV .
X Epursea ophthalmica , C. TV .
X Ascomma ( n. g. ) horrida , - X COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
Island of Rodriguez only .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas- car .
Other Localities .
Endocoxelus ( n. g. ) variegatus , C. * X JEschyntelus ( n. g. ) ater , - - X Murmidius segregates , W. - X Cryptamorpha desjardinsii , - X N. Zealand , Madeira , St. Helena , Japan , N. Amer .
Lsemophlceus palpalis , C. - X Dermestes vulpinus , - Cosmopolitan .
Trogoderma , sp. - - X Berosus mixtus , C. W. - - X Philhydrus melanocephalus , 01 .
- - Europe , \amp ; c. Dactylosternum abdominale , Fabr .
- X W. Indies , W. Africa , Natal , Ceylon , Andamans .
Rhyssemus tarsalis , C. TV .
- X Ancylonycha gradaria , C. TV .
- X , , rodriguezi , C. TV .
- - X Oryetes minor , C. TV .
- X Sponsor desjardinsii , Guer .
- X Adelocera modesta , Boisd .
- X Aden , China , Java , Senegal , Gua- temala , Oceania .
Malthacodes ( n. g. ) pictus , C. TV .
- X Tarsostenus univittatus , Spin .
- - Europe , Venezuela , Natal , India , Australia .
Xylodes ( n. g. ) albovarius , C. TV .
- X Lyctus rugicollis , Walker - Ceylon , China .
" brunneus , Step - .
Europe , Australia , \amp ; c. Cis insularis , C. W. - X " sexcarinatus , C. W - X Opatrum csesum , Stev .
- - X Cistela brunnea , C. W. - - X Balanodes ( n. g. ) tomentosus , C. W. - X Caranistes annufipes , C. W. - X CratOpus inornatus , C. W. - X " virescens , C. W. - X " magnifica , C. W. - X Sitophilus linearis , Hbst .
- \#166 ; \#166 ; : ^ W. Indies , India , \amp ; c. oryzae , Linn. - X Cosmopolitan .
Phlseophagosoma proximum , Woll .
- Malay Archipelago .
Pentarthrum rodriguezi , C.W.- - X Cossonus marginalis , Schonb .
' - - X Tomicus ferrugineus , Fabr .
- Rio Janeiro , Ceylon , Penang , Celebes .
Macrotoma simplex , C. W. - X Xystrocera globosa , 01 .
- - X X Round Is .
Stromatium barbatum , F. - X India , Penang .
Phoracantha semipunctata , F. - Australia .
Coptops bidens , Fabr .
- X India , Natal , W. Africa .
Micracantha dentata , 01 .
- , - X Cryptonychus limbatus , C. W. - X Euxestus parkii , Woll .
- - Madeira .
Trochoideus desjardinsii , Guer .
- .
* X X Siam , Java , Phil. Is .
GEODEPHAGA .
Carabidse .
Chlceniu olivaceus .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 106 .
C. capite thoraceque obscure viridi-seneis ; capite obsolete subtiliter punctulato .
thorace sat crebre fortiter punctato ; elytris obscure olivaceis , striatis , interstitiis sat crebre distinct punctatis ; antennis articulis tribus basalibus pedibusque flayo-ferrugineis , tarsis obscurioribus .
\lt ; ? .
Long. 5J lin. , lat. 2 lin , Somewhat resembles C. nigricornis , Fab .
, in form ; but the thorax is relatively a little narrower , the sides are a little more rounded , the posterior angles more rounded ; the elytra are slightly more attenuated posteriorly .
The antennse are blackish , with the first three joints reddish yellow .
The head is sculptured as in C. nigricornis , but rather more distinctly , the punctures are more distinct towards the eyes and on the neck .
The thorax is one fourth broader than long , gently convex , strongly punctured but not very thickly ; the punctures , however , are closer near the suture and towards the hinder margin ; there is a single well-defined fovea near the posterior margin , slightly nearer to the side than to the sutural line .
Scu-tellum impunctate .
Elytra somewhat broader than the thorax , less parallel at the sides , and more narrowed towards the apex than in C. the pubescence is rather less close , the striae are well marked ( rather more so than in C. , the interstices are thickly and distinctly punctured , but the punctures are not crowded .
The underside is black , shining ; a few strong punctures are scattered over the prosternum and the metasternum .
The legs are reddish yellow ; the apices of the tibiae and the tarsi are pitchy .
Var. Elytra with a reddish-yellow spot near the apex on the third to sixth interstices . ? .
Of this species , which was new to science , only two specimens were brought , HYDRADEPHAGA .
Dytiscidse .
Copelatus , Sturm .
Seven specimens of this species were captured .
Hydaticus , Lap .
Two examples only .
Colymbetes ( ) socialis .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 106 .
C. elongato-ovalis , supra obscure flavicans , infra niger ; capite postice nigro , vertice transversim flavo notato ; thorace disco guttis parvis duabus approximates COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
piceis notato ; elytris obscurioribus ( flavo limbatis ) ; prosterno pallido .
Long. 4^ lin. , lat. 2J- lin. Elongate oval , shining .
Head yellow , with an oblique spot on each side on the forehead , and the neck hlack , the black portions uniting at the eyes .
Thorax yellow , with the middle of the anterior and posterior margins and two approximate discoidial spots pitchy ; very shining , with a line of punctures along the front margin ; there is also a line of obscure punctures along the sides and extending a short distance along the posterior margin ; the extreme lateral margins are distinctly incrassate .
Scutellum pitchy .
Elytra shining , with the sutural line and the sides yellowish , the rest closely spotted with small brownish markings as in C. , E. ; each elytron with three rows of rather large punctures , each row containing about eight or ten punctures .
Underside very shining , black , except the prosternum , which is yellow , and the margins of the abdominal segments , which are obscurely pitchy .
Legs pitchy yellow ; intermediate femora and tibiae moderately thickly and finely punctured .
This species most nearly resembles C. n , Eab .
, but is a trifle narrower ; the coloration is nearly the same .
The thorax and elytra are smooth , the sides of the former are not so much impressed above , but the edges are more distinctly incrassate .
The three rows of punctures on the elytra are very distinct .
The under side is very shining and is not frosted as in C. notatus ; the prosternum is a little less sharply keeled ; the intermediate femora and tibiae are distinctly less strongly and more finely * punctured ; the anterior and intermediate tarsi are scarcely dilated in the male .
Eight specimens were taken .
Gyrinidae .
Dmeutes Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 107 .
D. obovalis , depressiusculus , sat latus , supra nigro-olivaceus , vix caeruleo-cupreo micans , nitidulus ; elytris postice rotundatis , pone apicem in mare leviter emargina-tis , in foemina exteme oblique truncatis , ad truncaturse basin dent parvo deflexo et apice dent acuto armatis ; corpore subtus nigro-piceo , ano pedibusque piceis .
\lt ; ?
long .
6f lin. , lat. 4^ lin. ; ?
long .
6 lin. , lat. 3J lin. " Always on the surface of Bivi\amp ; re de l'Est .
" G. G. BRACHELYTRA .
Aleocharidse .
Aleochara parvula .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 107 .
A. statura fere A. moerentis , at parva , nitida , parcius pubescens ; antennis pedibusque obscure testaceis antennarum articulo ultimo tibiarumque basi vix picescentibus ; elytris thorace vix longioribus , cum tborace discrete distinct punctatis .
abdomine discrete distinct punctato , ano piceo-testaceo .
Long , -S lin. Antennae stout , scarcely longer than the head and thorax taken together ; the first , second , and third joints elongate , subequal , the fourth joint a little broader than long ; the fifth to tenth joints becoming gradually broader but not longer ; the eleventh joint as long as the two preceding taken together , bluntly acuminate .
Head rather broad , sparingly and scarcely visibly punctured .
Thorax gently convex , twice as broad as long , narrowed in front , not thickly but distinctly punctured .
Elytra a trifle broader than the thorax , and a little longer , distinctly but not thickly asperate-punctate .
Abdomen distinctly , evenly but not thickly punctured ; the punctuation of the fifth segment is scarcely less distinct than that of the preceding .
The thorax is relatively rather broader than in mcerens ; and the punctuation is less close , as is also that of the elytra .
A single example only .
Homalota destitutes .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 108 .
H. statura et colore H. boletobice , Th. ( , Kz ) , at antennis paulo brevioribus .
Nigra , subnitida , subtiliter punctulata , flavosericea ; antennarum basi , elytris pedibusque luteo-testaceis , elytris regione scutellari angulisque posticis obsolete infus-catis , thorace obscure piceo ; abdomine discrete subtiliter punctulato , segmentis apice piceis .
Long. If lin. Very closely allied to H. boletobiat Th. , but is a trifle more parallel-sided , the antennae are a little shorter and stouter , the elytra are relatively a little shorter ; the punctuation is throughout slightly finer , especially that of the thorax , which is also less close ; that of the abdomen is more even ( being scarcely less close on the fifth and sixth segments than on the previous ones ) .
The three basal joints of the antennae are elongate , subequal , testaceous ; the third more slender ; the fourth joint is twice as broad as long , shining , pitchy testaceous ; the fifth to tenth joints gradually but distinctly broader , transverse ; the eleventh joint nearly as long as the two previous joints taken together , obtusely acuminate .
Head sparingly and scarcely perceptibly punctured .
Thorax pitchy , very nearly as broad as the elytra , not quite twice as broad as long , gently rounded at the sides and base , with a shallow longitudinal impression in front of the scutellum , finely but not thickly punctured .
Elytra a trifle longer than the thorax , finely and not thickly punctured .
Abdomen with the apex of each segment pitchy , very finely but not closely punctulate ; the punctuation is less close and distinctly finer than on the elytra .
This is another of the new species of which a single example was found .
COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
Psederidae .
Lithocharis .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 108 .
L. ferruginea ; antennis , elytris pedibusque flavo-testaceis ; capite thoraceque subopacis , sat crebre fortiter punctatis ; elytris thorace ^ longioribus , nitidis , sat crebre punctatis ; abdomine nitido segmentis 4 basalibus sat parce subtilissime punctulatis , 5 ' laevi .
Long. 1^ lin. Sparingly clothed with pubescence .
Antennae one fourth longer than the head ; first joint elongate , second a little longer than broad , third not longer than the second but narrower , the fourth as broad as long ; fifth to tenth joints transverse and gradually becoming broader ; the eleventh joint ovate , sub-acuminate .
Head quadrate , convex , subopaque , finely rugulose and somewhat thickly and strongly punctured , straight behind , sides parallel , the extreme angles blunt ; the portion of the head behind the eyes is considerable longer than the diameter of the eye .
Thorax at its broadest part scarcely as wide as the head , gently narrowed behind , scarcely as long as broad , subopaque , finely rugulose and moderately thickly and strongly punctured .
Elytra a little broader than the head , one fifth longer than broad , shining , punctured as the thorax ( but not rugulose ) .
The punctuation of the abdomen is very fine and obscure , gradually disappearing towards the apex .
Tarsi long and slender .
The portion of the head in front of the eyes resembles in form that generally seen in Sunius } that is to say , it is somewhat broad , slightly impressed , covering the base of the antennae , with the front margin arcuate ; the general structure , however , of the tarsi and maxillary palpi , so far as I am able to examine them without dissection , appears to be that of Lithocharis .
A unique example of this interesting species was brought by Mr. Slater .
NECROPHAGA .
Nitidulidse .
Carpophilus m , Er .
Eleven specimens of this species were brought ; nine being flavous and two nearly black varieties .
Carpophilus auropi , Woll .
A single specimen which I could not separate from , taken by Mr. Wollaston in Maderia .
Carpophilus hum , Eabr .
Three specimens .
The punctuation ( especially of the thorax ) is very strong , much more so than examples from Natal which are in the National Collection , but 3 t 2 the form is rather that of C. humeralis than C. foveicollis ; the punctuation is also even more strong than in this latter , I therefore prefer considering the specimens from Rodriguez mere varieties of C. humeralis .
Microporumy C. " Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. N. Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 109 .
Mentum tranverse , much narrower in front ; ligula short , the anterior angles produced .
Labial palpi short , the apical joint large .
Lobe of the maxillae elongate , slender , ciliate ; maxillary palpi with penultimate joint quadrate , the apical joint twice as long as the previous joint , slightly attenuated .
Mandibles strongly arched , terminating in a sharp point .
Head transverse , narrowed in front of the eyes , terminating in a short muzzle .
Eyes prominent .
Antennae inserted immediately in front of the eyes , moderately short ; the first joint stout , cylindrical , the rest much more slender ; the second to fifth subequal , elongate ; the sixth and seventh a little shorter , the eighth as broad as long , narrowed at the base ; the ninth to eleventh forming an oblong-ovate club .
Thorax twice as broad as long , gently arched in front , arcuata at the sides , broadest at the posterior angles , which are acute and slightly directed backwards .
Elytra oblong , leaving two segments of the abdomen uncovered , as wide as the thorax , margined at the sides , the apex of each elytron slightly rounded , especially at the outer angle .
Legs moderately stout ; tarsi with the basal joints somewhat dilated , ciliated .
The insect which appears most nearly to approach the one here described is Idocolastus , and I have accordingly placed it next to that genus .
Microporum nitens ( Plate LIII .
, fig. 2 ) .
C. Waterh .
, l.c. , p. 109 .
M. oblongum , leviter convexum , nitidum , piceo-testaceum , crebre evidenter punctatum , elytris pedibusque testaceis ; capite transverso ; oculis prominentibus , nigris ; antennis capite dimidio longioribus ; thorace longitudine duplo latiore , convexo , angulis anticis deflexis rotundatis , lateribus arcuatis , angulis posticis acutis retrorsum directis ; elytris thorace haud angustioribus at duplo longioribus , humeris obtusis , lateribus arcuatis , angulis apicalibus exterioribus bene rotundatis apicibus arcuatis .
Long. 1^ lin. The punctuation although somewhat fine is distinct , especially on the elytra , and the punctures are rather close together .
The eyes ( which are coarsely granular ) are oblique and very prominent , especially behind .
The thorax is very little narrowed in front , the sides are marginal and gently arcuate , the greatest width is at the posterior angles , which are acute and slightly lap over the shoulders of the elytra .
The elytra are very nearly twice as long as the thorax , and their width COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
517 slightly narrowed towards the apex ; on each side of the * suture there is a lightly impressed stria , joining the suture at the apex , but not reaching the scutellum .
The head has on the forehead between the antennae a minute central tubercle , and on the vertex a very shallow ( scarcely perceptible ) fovea ; both these characters are only to be seen in certain lights .
One specimen .
JProbcenm , C. Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. N. Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 110 .
Mentum somewhat transverse , suddenly narrowed in front , the extreme apex truncate ; on either side of the narrow portion ( but on a lower plane ) there is a somewhat triangular projection ; the ligula is not prominent , but its anterior angles are produced into two delicate , subcylindrical , slightly curved projections , nearly as long as the palpi .
Labial palpi short and thick ; the basal joint round , scarcely visible ; the second and third equal , slightly elongate , subcylindrical .
Lobe of the maxillae slender , ciliated , with a distinct sharp tooth nearly on a level with the basal joint of the palpus .
Maxillary palpi with the second joint twice as long as broad , narrowed at its base ; the third joint a little shorter , a little longer than broad , the apical joint one third longer than the previous one , slender , a little narrowed at the apex .
Mandibles very prominent , completely visible from above , impressed , broad at the base , narrow and pointed at the apex .
Head transverse , slightly lobed over the base of the antennae ; eyes prominent .
Antennae very long , basal joint very large ; second joint elongate , cylindrical , inserted near the apex of the basal joint ; the third to eighth joints a little longer than the second , and of the same form ; the ninth rather shorter and broader than the previous joint , the tenth scarcely transverse , the eleventh oblique truncated .
Thorax transverse , broader behind , scarcely narrowed in front .
Elytra oblong .
Pygidium visible from above .
Legs robust ; tarsi short , the basal joints slightly dilated , strongly ciliated .
Pro-and meso-sterna constructed as in My strops .
This genus is closely allied to My strops , from which it differs in the form of the mandibles , the form of the head , the basal joint of the antennae , and in the elytra nearly covering the abdomen .
I am unacquainted with Mystrops dispar from Madagascar , except from description ; but I think it probable that it may have to be transferred to the present genus .
jProbcenuslongicornis ( Plate LIII .
fig* 1)* Ann. \amp ; Mag. N. Hist. , 1876 , xxiii .
, p. 110 .
P. oblongus , leviter convexus , testaceus , nitidus , crebre distinct punctatus ; capite sat magno transverso , leviter convexo , antice impresso , utrinque supra anten-narum basin parum elevato ; oculis prominentibus , nigris ; mandibulis porrectis , leviter curvatis , apice acuminatis , basi supra parum conoayis ; antennarum articulo primo magno , elongato ; thorace capite J latiore , longitudine fere duplo latiore , leviter convexo , antice vix angustato , angulis antieis obtusis , lateribus levissime arcuatis , marginatis , angulis posticis rectis , basi fere recta ; scutello sat magno .
elytris thorace vix angustioribus , at J longioribus , apicem versus parum angustatis lateribus levissime arcuatis , marginatis , apicibus arcuatim truncatis .
Long. 1J lin. , lat. f lin. The punctuation is rather close and distinct , but not very strong , it is rather finer on the head .
The mandibles are nearly as long as the head , not much curved enclosing a space when the points meet .
Antennae long , about twice the length of the thorax , basal joint very long and thick , slightly narrowed at the apex , the second joint elongate , placed near the apex of the first on the hinder side .
One specimen of this singular insect was captured .
From the unusual way in which the second joint of the antennae is articulated with the first , it is difficult to see how the antennae could ever be directed otherwise than backwards .
Epurceaophthalmica .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. N. Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 111 .
E. oblonga , obscure ferruginea , opaca , dense pubescens ; capite lato , transverso , ante oculos angustato , subtilissime coriaceo , sat crebre distinct punctato ; labro transverso , lateribus rotundatis , antice medio anguste profunde triangulariter exciso ; oculis magnis prominentibus , nigris , antennis capite paululo longioribus , clava picea ; thorace capite J latiore , longitudine f latiore , leviter covexo , antice vix angustato , coriaceo , sat crebre evidenter punctato , margin antico leviter emarginato , angulis anticis obtuse rotundatis , lateribus tenuiter marginatis , levissime arcuatis , angulis posticis fere rectis ( summo ipso obtuso ) ; elytris thorace haud angustioribus , vix duplo longioribus , medio vix ampliatis , coriaceis , minus crebre evidenter punctatis , apice truncatis , angulis externis paulo rotundatis ; abdomine supra subtiliter haud crebre punctulato , brevissime flavo-pubescente .
Long. 1-J lin. , lat. S lin. The eyes in this species are unusually prominent ; and there is not the usual impressed line along the inner margin .
The thorax is broadest at the posterior angles , which are rectangles , with the extreme point blunted .
A single example .
Colydiidae .
Ascomma , 0 .
Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 111 .
General build of Endolphlaeus , but with the head not widened in front of the eyes .
Eyes partly clothed with erect scale-like setse .
Mentum square ; lingula very nearly as broad as the mentum and about half the length , sides parallel , front margin gently arcuate , the angles consequently slightly obtuse ; the front margin COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. G. WATERHOUSE .
fringed with dense stiff hair , so dense that it has the appearance of a piece separate from the ligula ; the labial palpi are well separated from each other at the base ; the apical joint is elongate , slightly acuminate at the apex , a little swollen at the base .
The outer lobe of the maxillae rather widened and truncate at the apex ; the palpi are short and thick and do not differ materially from those of Endolphloeus .
Antennae eleven-jointed , the third joint rather elongate ; the tenth and eleventh joints form a distinct broadly ovate club .
Ascomma horrida ( Plate LIIL , fig. 3 ) .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 112 .
A. oblonga , covexiuscula , opaca , ferruginea , nigro varia , breviter echinata ; capite deplanato , antice rotundato , postice angustiore ; oculis nigris , sat promi-nentibus ; antennis capite paulo longioribus , nitidis , piceis , clava fere rotundata ; thorace capite fere duplo latiore , longitudine J latiore , convexo , postice paulo angustato , margin antico utrinque sat fortiter emarginato , medio lobato , angulis anticis acutiusculis , lateribus deplanatis leviter rotundatis , serratis , angulis ante basin fere rectis , basi medio late lobata , disco impressione oblonga ; scutello parvulo , rotundato ; elytris basi thorace haud latioribus , postice vix ampliatis , fere parallelis , apice rotundatis , singulis elytris tricostatis ; tibiis echinatis .
Long. 2J-3 lin. , lat. J\#151 ; 1^ lin. Build of JEndophloens spmulosus , but longer ; the head is scarcely wider in front of the eyes , so that the eyes ( which are furnished with erect black narrow scales ) are the most prominent ; the antennal groove below the eye is very deep .
Antennae with the first joint short ( not visible from above ) , the second nearly globular , the third elongate , the fourth fifth and sixth becoming shorter , the seventh to ninth * nearly globular , the tenth and eleventh forming a somewhat round and distinct club .
The thorax has the sides somewhat expanded and reflexed , the margins serrated , but the teeth are difficult to see on account of the short bristles .
The whole surface of the insect ( with the tibiae and part of the eyes ) is clothed with closely set short erect thick black and ferruginous setae .
The general colour is dull rusty red , the disk of the thorax and a mesial and subapical patch of the elytra are blackish .
Eifteen specimens of this interesting new species were found .
" Under bark , " Gr .
G. Endocoxelus , 0 .
Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 112 .
Mentum slightly transverse , a little narrowed in front ; ligula about half the width of the mentum and of the same length , parallel at the sides rounded and ciliated in front ; labial palpi somewhat elongate and acuminate ; outer lobe of the maxillae short , traingular , truncate and ciliated at the apex ; apical joint of the palpi twice as long as broad , as long as the two preceding joints taken together , truncate at the apex .
Head nearly parallel at the sides , gently sinuate at the eyes and a little narrowed behind ; eyes slightly prominent .
Antennae eleven-jointed as long as the head , the first and second joints stouter than those following , scarcely longer than broad ; the third to fifth a little elongate , sixth to ninth moniliform the tenth and eleventh joints forming a distinct club , the eleventh considerably smaller that the tenth .
Thorax convex , a little broader than long , slightly narrower behind , distinctly margined all round , hut especially at the sides , which are gently arcuate ( microscopically serrate ) all the angles obtuse .
Scutellum very small .
Elytra at the base scarcely broader than the thorax , slightly broader posteriorly , twice as long as broad .
Closely allied to Coxelus , but with the head not wider in front of the eyes , antennae with a more distinct club , thorax narrowly but distinctly margined , \amp ; c. Endocoxelus variegatus ( Plate LIII .
, fig. 4 ) .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 112 .
E. oblongus , antice paulo angustatus , leviter convexus , opacus , niger , squamulis pallidis adspersus ; elytris testaceo-variegatis ; tibiis testaceis .
Long. 1^ lin. , lat. S lin. Hull pitchy black , the clypeus and the middle of the front and posterior margins of the thorax reddish .
Elytra obscure testaceous , each with the scutellar region , a discoidal spot , a subapical patch , and three or four lateral markings blackish brown .
Legs ( especially the tibiae ) testaceous .
The generally decumbent scales which are tolerably thickly scattered over the surface ( and on the tibiae ) are very pale yellow .
Head flattened , thickly rugulose .
Thorax thickly and rugosely punctured , convex , a trifle broader towards the apex , which is not very obtusely rounded , slightly shining , crenate-striate , the interstices scarcely convex , the scales forming rows .
Less convex than Coxelus pictus , and with the elytra less narrowed at the base , \amp ; c. \amp ; c. Twenty-seven specimens : " Under bark , " G.G. JEschyntelus , 0 .
Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 113 .
Resembles Bothrideres except in the form in the head , which is like that of Deretaphrus erichsoni .
Head bent downwards , much arched , broadest behind the eyes , scarcely narrowed and rounded in front ; eyes not prominent , scarcely visible from above .
Antennae as long as the head ; the basal joint large , nearly round ; the second the same form but smaller ; the third , seventh , eighth , and ninth a little longer than broad ; the fourth , fifth , and sixth nearly as long as broad ; the tenth compressed , cup-shaped ; the eleventh much smaller , transverse , truncate and pubescent at the apex .
Anterior coxae very little separated ; anterior tibiae denticulate .
Intermediate coxae moderately separate .
Posterior legs very widely separated .
Basal segment of the abdomen rather longer than the two following taken together .
COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
JEschyntelus ater ( Plate LIII .
, fig. 5 ) .
0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 113 .
JE .
elongatus , ater , dorsim depressiuscnlus ; capite crebre fortiter pnnctato , punctis longitudinaliter confluentibus ; antennis piceis , nitidis ; thorace antice capite fere duplo latiore , latitudine haud longiore , postice angnstato , angulis anticis pro-minulis obtusiusculis , lateribns antice leviter rotundatis , dein ad basin rectis , medio tuberculo yix perspicuo notatis , basi utrinque levissime sinnata ; supra crebre fortiter punctato , medio foveis duabus oyalibus ( altera ante , altera post medium ) notato ; scutello parvo quinquelaterali ; elytris tborace paulo latioribus , parallelis , ante apicem solum angustatis , apice truncatis , fortiter punctato-striatis , interstitiis 2 ' et 3 ' planis , 4 ' , 5 ' , 6 ' , 7 ' angustatis costiformibus ( plerumque 5 ' et 7 ' ) ; pedibus piceis , tibiis anticis quadridenticulatis ; corpore subtus sat crebre fortiter punctato .
Long. 2-3J lin. , lat. -J-l lin. The thorax is more strongly punctured towards the hind margin than in front , the middle of the front margin is rather finely punctured .
The punctures in the striae of the elytra are large and slightly separated , the lateral striae would be better termed grooves .
Three specimens , " Under bark , " G.G. Murmidius s 0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 114 .
M. ovalis , convexus , nitidus , piceo-niger , punctatus ; thorace rufopiceo , antennis pedibusque obscure testaceis ; capite sat crebre subtilissime punctulato ; thorace crebre subtiliter punctato , circa angulos anticos punctis nonnullis magnis , fortiter transverso , antice leviter emarginato , angulis anticis acutis , sub angulis rotundato-exciso , lateribus arcuatis marginatis , basi marginata utrinque oblique bisinuata ; elytris convexis , sat crebre distinct punctatis , postice paulo ampliatis , basi flexuosis , apice rotundatis .
Long. 1^ mill .
Hather more convex than M. ovalis , more rounded at the sides , more narrowed in front , and at once distinguished by the punctures on the elytra not forming lines , but regularly distributed over their surface .
The scutellar region is somewhat impressed .
A single example only .
The genus Murmidius appears to me to be more conveniently placed at the end of the Colydiidce than with the Eisteridce .
The genus does not appear in Lacordaire 's " Genera , " so that we have not that author 's opinion as to its affinities .
Cryptamorpha desjar , Guerin .
Psammoecus desjardinsi , Guerin , Ic .
R\amp ; gn .
Anim .
Ins. 1843 , p. 196 .
A single example " Under bark , " G.G. This insect was originally described from Mauritius by Gu6rin under the name Psammeecus Dejardinsii .
In 1846 Mr. Adam White described the species under the name Dendrophagus suturalis , from New Zealand .
In 1854 Mr. Wollaston met with it in Maderia , and correctly proposed the new genus for its reception , naming it C. musce , not observing that it had already received two specific names in genera to which it could not properly be referred .
More recently , in 1859 , Dr. Leconte seems to have again described the species under the name Pseudopha-nussignatuSf from N. America ; and I think that in all probability the Telephones fasciatus , of Redtenbacher , from Taiti ( 1867 ) , will also prove to be the same insect .
Cucujidae .
Lcemophlceus palp alls .
C. Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 114 .
JO .
Elongatus , convexiusculus , niger , nitidus , palpis tarsisque testaceis , tibiis piceis ; capite sat convexo , crebre fortiter punctato , post oculos sulco transverso leviter impresso ; oculis prominulis ; antennis capite ^ longioribus , sat crassis , articulis duobus basalibus crassioribus , 3 ' minore latitudine paulo longiore , 4 ' quad-rato , 5'-8um moniliformibus , 9 ' et 10 ' latioribus , transversis , 11 ' fere globoso ; thorace capite vix latiore , latitudine paulo longiore , coriaceo , crebre fortiter punctato , antice posticeque truncato , basin versus vix angustato , lateribus fere rectis , margina-tis , dorso utrinque carina longitudinali ; elytris thorace paululo latioribus et fere triplo longioribus , convexiusculis , sat fortiter striatis , humeris obtusis , lateribus vix arcuatis ( fere rectis ) ad apicem arcuatim angustatis , striis parce obsolete punctatis interstitiis parce punctatis .
Long. Tie lin. , lat. \ in .
This very distinct species has somewhat the appearance of a minute JPassandra .
The punctures on the head and thorax are very strong , those on the head being somewhat confluent , those on the thorax moderately close together but leaving a smooth sutural line .
The sides of the thorax are nearly straight , very slightly turned at the angles which are a little obtuse ; on each side of the disk near the sides there is a distinct ridge .
The interstices of the elytra are slightly coriaceous , each with a row of moderately distinct punctures , those on the sides irregular .
The three-jointed club to the antennae is unusually distinct in this species .
One specimen .
Dermestidae .
JDermestes vul , Fabr .
Many examples .
Trogoderma spe.\#151 ; ? .
Oblong-ovate , shining , brown , clothed with ashy pubescence ( which would probably form a pattern , but not bands , on the elytra in a fresh example ) .
Antennae COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
testaceous , with the basal joint large , a little longer than broad , the second joint globular , third a little elongate and somewhat slender , the fourth to eighth transverse , gradually becoming a little wider , the ninth and tenth joints larger , transverse , the eleventh as long as the two previous joints together , flat , rounded at the apex .
Hanks of the thorax beneath excavated to receive the club of the antennae .
Thorax finely and very closely punctured .
Elytra a little more distinctly , hut rather less closely punctured , a trifle longer than together broad , very slightly narrowed towards the apex .
A single specimen apparently belonging to this genus , hut not in sufficiently good condition for me to describe .
The above will , however , help to mark the species .
PALPICORNIA .
Hydrophilid\#174 ; .
Berosus mixtus .
0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 114 .
B. statura fere B. affinisoblongus , convexus , sordide flavo-testaceus , vix nitidus , subtus niger ; capite thoraeeque sat crebre distinct punctatis , clypeo subtil-issime punctulato ; elytris fortiter striatis , striis crebre punctatis , interstitiis planis sat crebre distinct punctatis , apice truncato , angulo extemo breviter unidentato .
Long. 2-J lin. , lat. 1J lin. Eorm of B. affinis but rather broader behind .
Head distinctly and rather closely punctured ; clypeus very finely and delicately punctured , a little more distinctly at the sides .
Thorax relatively broader than in B. affinis and less convex , less deflexed at the sides , the anterior angles much rounded ; punctuation very distinct and moderately close .
Scutellum with a few fine punctures .
Elytra with less prominent shoulders than in B. affinis , the striae are not impressed at the base , but are very deep towards the apex , the interstices are flat ( very narrow at the apex ) , less strongly punctured than in affini , but not more thickly ; the extreme apex of each elytron is truncate , and the external angle is marked by a short sharp tooth .
The elytra present six round obscure blackish spots placed as in B. affinis .
Half-a-dozen specimens were taken .
Bhilhydrus melanocep , Oliv .
A series of specimens of Bhilhydrus taken by Mr. Gulliver appear to belong to this species .
I would note , however , that the average size is rather smaller than that of British examples ( 4 mill .
, the largest 4^ mill .
) , and the punctuation appears a trifle less distinct .
Specimens from the Canaries named " politus , Kiist " by Mr. Wollaston differ from those from Bodriguez in being a little less punctured .
3 u 2 Those from the Cape Verde Group , named " , Sh .
" differ in being less bluntly round at the apex of the elytra , and the punctuation is also a little less distinct than in the examples from Rodriguez .
Dactylosternum abdominale , Eab .
Seven examples of this species were obtained .
LAMELLICORNIA .
Aphodiidse .
JRhyssemus tarsalis .
C. Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 115 .
JR .
fusco-niger , nitidus , front granosa , vert ice subtilius granuloso ; thoraee transversim quadricarinato ; elytris punctato-striatis , interstitiis biseriatim granu-latis .
Long. 1-J lin. , lat. j lin. Extremely close to JR .
germcmus , and only differs in being more shining , in having the projection in front of the eye nearly rectangular ( scarcely obtuse ) , the granulation of the elytra a trifle less fine ; the basal joint of the posterior tarsi is as long as the spur , whereas in JR .
germanus it appears to be always a little shorter .
Two examples .
Melolonthidse .
JLachnosterna gradaria .
C. Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 115 .
L. oblonga , convexa , brunnea , sat nitida ; capite sat magno , collo laevi , front planiuseula crebre distinct punctata ; clypeo confertimfortius punctato , marginato , medio vix sinuato ; thorace longitudine fere duplo latiore , convexo , minus crebre punctato , ante medium paulo angustato , margin antico fere recto , angulis anticis obtusiusculis , posticis obtusis ; scutello laevi ; elytris basi thoracis latitudine postice paulo ampliatis , convexis , ad apicem rotundatis , haud crebre punctatis , marginibus incrassatis piceis ; pectore longe flavo-pubescente ; abdomine amplo , parce punctato ; pygidio sat crebre fortiter punctato .
Long. 9-J lin. , lat. 4J lin. Eight examples .
JLachnosterna rodriguezi ( PI .
LIII .
, fig. 6 ) .
C. Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 115 .
JL .
oblonga , leviter convexa , nitida , pallide brunnea , sat lata ; capite lato , sat crebre fortiter punctato ; clypeo brevi , fortiter transverso , reflexo-marginato , crebre punctato , medio paululo producto , utrinque leviter sinuato ; oculis sat magnis ; thorace longitudine duplo latiore , leviter convexo , sat crebre distinct punctato , COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
margin antico leyiter flexuoso , angulis anticis obtusiusculis , lateribus arcuatis , angulis obtusis , basi utrinque sinuata , medio parum lobata ; scutello laevi ; elytris thoracis latitudine at 3J longioribus , post medium paululo ampliatis dorso depres-siusculis , ad apicem rotundatis , minus crebre punctulatis , sutura parum eleyata .
Long. 10J-12J lin. , lat. 5-6J lin. Two dead specimens ( possibly bleached ) found in a spider 's web .
Dynastidse .
Oryctes .
0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 115 .
O. oblongus , niger , nitidus ; capite antice angustato , rugoso , medio yix nodoso ; thorace longitudine \ latiore , nitido , parce subtiliter punctulato , antice medio im-pressione rotundata rugosa et utrinque plaga parya rugosa notato , lateribus leviter rotundatis ; elytris thorace haud latioribus , postice ampliatis , fortiter lineato-punc-tatis ; pedibus rufo-piceis .
Long. 11^ lin. , lat. 5J lin. The elytra are covered with rather large horseshoe punctures , among which may be traced the usual two pairs of punctured lines ; the surface between the large punctures has small punctures scattered here and there .
A single specimen found by Mr. Gulliver in a spider 's web .
SERRICORNIA .
Buprestidse .
Sponsor desjardinsii , Guerin .
" Lives in holes in dead wood."\#151 ; G. G. Two specimens ( male and female ) taken by Mr. Gulliver .
The head and thorax in both specimens are bright green , the elytra in the female are bright purple , those of the male are more golden , reflecting purple in some lights .
The male measures 6 mill .
, the female 8 mill .
These appear to be the only specimens of this genus which have as yet reached this country .
Elaterid\#174 ; .
Adelocera mode , Boisd .
Nine specimens .
This species has now been found in most of the tropical parts of the world .
MALACODERMATA .
Melyrid\#174 ; .
Malthacodes , 0 .
Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 116 .
Maxillae with two lobes , membranous , the internal smaller and narrower than the external ; apical joint of the maxillary palpi strongly securiform ; mandibles bifid at the apex .
Antennae with the first joint elongate , the second smaller and shorter , the third a little longer than the second hut not so long as the first .
the fourth to tenth about as broad as long , narrowed at their base ; the eleventh oblong .
Eyes prominent .
Thorax transverse , broadest at the base .
Elytra scarcely broader than the thorax and twice and a half as long .
Tarsi with the basal joint a little elongate , second to fourth joints subequal , shorter than the first ; claws with a membranous lobe beneath each .
Body pubescent .
The species upon which this genus is founded resembles , but is of a shorter form , the head is short , and the apical joint of the maxillary palpi is very strongly securiform .
Pelecophorus is described as having the basal joint of the tarsi very short , shorter than the second ; this I cannot apply to the insect here described , or I should have placed it in that genus .
Malthacodes pictus ( PI .
LIII .
, fig. 7 ) .
0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 116 .
M. oblongus , leviter convexus , nigro-seneus , griseo-pubescens ; antennis nigris , articulo basali piceo ; thorace longitudine duplo latiore , sat crebre subtiliter punc-tato , lateribus arcuatis , tenuissime flavo marginatis , basi utrinque leviter sinuato ; elytris thorace vix latioribus at longioribus , crebre sat fortiter punctatis , fasciis duabus flexuosis rufo-testaceis ; femoribus piceis , tibiis tarsisque pallide testaceis .
Long. If lin. , lat. f lin. A single example only was found of this interesting new genus , Cleridae .
Tarsostqnus uni , Spin .
The single specimen found does not differ from the European examples .
Ptinidse .
Xylodes,0 .
Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 116 .
General form nearly that of Hedobia .
Antennae rather thick , not approximate at the base ; the basal joint oblong , the second shorter and smaller , a little narrowed at its base , the third nearly as long as the first , parallel-sided , the fourth to tenth nearly quadrate , scarcely longer than broad , eleventh nearly twice as long as the preceding , rounded at the apex .
Thorax arched in front , as long as broad , slightly narrowed in front and behind .
Scutellum pentagonal .
Elytra nearly twice as broad as the thorax , and twice and a half as long , parallel , rounded at the apex , punctate-striate .
Legs rather short and stout ; tarsi rather short and stout , the COLEOPTERA\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
527 basal joint scarcely elongate , the second to fourth a little shorter , the fifth elongate and slender .
Body velvety .
Xylodes albovaria ( PI .
LIII .
, fig. 8 ) .
0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 117 .
X. niger , velutinus ; thorace supra albo , medio nigro annulato , marginibus nigris ; elytris basi fasciaque post medium dentata albis , humeris nigris .
Long. 1J\#151 ; 2 lin. , lat. S\#151 ; f lin. Six specimens of the pretty new species were found ; they vary much in size .
Cioidae .
Lyctus rugicollis , Walker .
Ditoma rugicollis , Walker , Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1858 , ii .
, p. 206 .
Lyctus rugicollis , 0 .
Waterh .
, L c. 1876 , xviii .
, p. 117 .
This species , which was originally described from Ceylon by Mr. Walker as a Ditoma , is closely allied to L. obsitus , Woll .
A single specimen was found .
Lyctus brunneus , Steph .
Three examples .
Cisinsularis .
C. Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 117 .
C. oblongus , convexus , piceo-niger ; capiter leviter convexo , crebre sat fortiter punctato ; labrum palpisque testaceis ; thorace longitudine paululo latiore , convexo , antice paulo angustato , crebre sat fortiter punctato , margin antico leviter arcuato , supra caput vix superante , angulis anticis omnino rotundatis , lateribus leviter arcuatis , reflexo-marginatis , angulis posticis obtuse rotundatis basi marginata ; elytris thorace vix latioribus , at 2J longioribus , convexis , ad apicem arcuatim attenuatis , sat crebre fortiter punctatis ; antennis pedibusque piceis , tarcis testaceis .
Long. 1^ lin. , lat. \ lin. This species has the elytra rather unusually narrowed at the apex ; the punctuation is very distinct , thick but not crowded ; in the middle of the forehead there is a small , almost imperceptible fovea ; the elytra are covered with a slightly metallic bloom .
A single specimen only .
Cis sexcarinat C. Waterh .
, Ann \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 118 .
C. oblongus , ater , vix nitidus , fortiter confertim rugoso-punctatus ; capite piceo ; antennis testaceis , clava picea ; thorace longitudine J latiore , lateribus fere parallelis ( vix arcuatis ) , angulis obtusis , basi bisinuata ; scutello lsevi ; elytris basi thorace haud latioribus at duplo longioribus , lateribus fere rectis ad apicem obtuse rotun-datis , sutura parnm elevata , singulo elytro ad apicem carinis tribus instructo ; corpore subtus haud crebre fortiter punctato ; pedibus piceis .
Long. 1-|- mill .
, lat. S ' mill .
Thirteen specimens found in fungus .
HETEROMERA .
Opat rinse .
Opatrum cc , Stev .
Eight examples , which agree with the description of this species .
Gistelidse .
Cistela brunnea ( PL LIII .
, fig. 9 ) .
0 .
Waterh .
, Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 118 .
C. ohlongo-ovalis , parum conyexa , sat nitida , brunnea , breyiter aureo-pubescens ; capite triangulari , crebre distinct punctato ; antennis thorace duplo longioribus ; thorace obscuriore , longitudine fere duplo latiore , antice arcuatim parum angustato , confertim fortiter punctato , angulis anticis omnino rotundatis , posticis rectis , basi recto-truncata , medio solum vix lobata ; elytris thorace yix latioribus at 3J longioribus , ad apicem arcuatim attenuatis , irregulariter crebre punctatis .
Long. 4 lin. , lat. 1-| lin. The elytra are punctate-striate at the apex , the stria next the suture extends for a little distance towards the scutellum .
This species , of which four specimens were brought , may eventually have to be separated from Cistela proper .
RHYNCHOPHORA .
Anthribidse .
Balanodes , 0 .
Waterh .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 118 .
Head as long as broad ; rostrum a trifle narrower , very short .
Antennae placed close to the eye , a little longer than the head and thorax together , very slender ; the first and second joints scarcely stouter than the following ; third to seventh a trifle longer than the second , subequal , the eighth rather shorter hut a little elongate ; the ninth to eleventh subequal , forming an elongate , slender , loose club .
Eyes a little prominent , slightly ovate .
Thorax nearly semicircular , truncate in front for the width of the head ; the basal ridge very slight , scarcely separated from the posterior margin , only visible near the shoulders .
Scutellum minute .
Elytra at the base scarcely as broad as the thorax , but a little more than twice as long , gradually narrowed towards the apex , which is rounded , punctate-striate .
Tibiae COLEOPTERA\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
cylindrical , not widened at the apex ; the anterior pair rather long and curved beyond the middle , minutely denticulate beneath the base .
Tarsi moderately broad , the basal joint a little elongate , the second transverse , the third short , bilobed ; claws with a distinct mesial tooth .
Body evenly convex , thickly clothed with pubescence .
Closely allied to Arceocorynus , but , besides the difference of form it differs in having slightly narrower tarsi and the tibiae are not widened at the apex .
Balanodes tomentosus ( PL LIII .
, fig. 10 ) .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 119 .
B. ovalis , convexus , dense breviter flavo-griseo-pubescens , obscure piceus , elytris pedibusque brunneis ; thorace creberrime haud fortiter punctato , angulis anticis obliteratis , posticis rectis , basi utrinque vix sinuata ; elytris fortiter striato-punctatis , interstitiis alternatis vix latioribus , subtilissime coriaceis ; antennis articulis tribus apicalibus piceis , Long. 2| lin. , lat. 1^ lin. The pubescence on the elytra is slightly interrupted by the rows of punctures , which gives them a striped appearance .
Another of the interesting new genera , of which only a single example was found .
Caranistes annulipes .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 119 .
C. oblongus , nigro-piceus , dense piceo-tomentosus , flavo variegatus ; pedibus pallide brunneis nigro annulatis .
Long. 2J-3 lin. , lat. 1J-1| lin. Pront of the head and the rostrum clothed with yellowish pubescence , that on the vertex brown ; eyes rather widely separated above , very slightly emarginate in front .
Antennae obscure testaceous , the club only dark , twice as long as the thorax ; the third to eighth joints very slender and gradually diminishing in length ; the ninth to eleventh elongate , forming a distinct but slight club .
Thorax very finely granular , nearly one-third broader than long , much narrowed in front , the sides nearly straight , rather narrowed behind the basal ridge , which is very distinct , well separated from the base ( especially at the sides ) ; the pubescence is brownish .
Scu-tellum yellowish .
Elytra as broad as the thorax , one-fourth longer than broad , not very convex , rounded at the apex , rather strongly punctate-striate , the interstices very slightly convex ; the pubescence is yellowish , interrupted by small brown square spots ; a few of these spots are larger and darker than the others ; and the yellow pubescence has a tendency to form a sutural spot behind the middle .
The legs are very pale brown ; a ring on the femur , two on the tibia , the apical half of the basal tarsal joint , and nearly all the second joint blackish .
Some large punctures are scattered over the flanks of the prosternum and the metasternum .
Three examples , found under bark by Mr. Gulliver .
Curculionidse .
Cratopus inornatus .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 120 .
C. elongatus , niger ( vel nigro-piceus ) , nitidus , setis albidis brevissimis parce adspersus ; antennis piceis ; rostro basi sat crebre , apice parcius lsevius punctulato , front discrete distinct punctata ; oculis oblongis , haud prominentibus ; thorace longitudine | latiore , antice angustato , vix crebre sat fortiter punctato ; scutello laevi ; elytris thorace paulo latioribus at 3 J longioribus , ad apicem regulariter acuminatis , fortiter striato-punctatis , interstitiis vix irregularibus , punctis parvis adspersis , apice tuberculis parvis obsitis , marginibus dimidio basili distinct carinatis , ad apicem serrulatis ; pectore breviter griseo-pubescente ; femoribus anticis subtus dent parvo armatis .
Long. 5-6^ lin. , lat. 2-2-J lin. Seven specimens .
Cratopus virescens .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 120 .
C. elongatus , piceus , dense virescenti-pubescens ; capitc rostroque crebre sat fortiter punctato ; oculis vix prominulis ; thorace longitudine vix latiore , antice angustato , crebre irregulariter granulato , lateribus arcuatis ; scutello viridi-albo tecto ; elytris thorace paulo latioribus at 3J- longioribus , apice angustatis , sat fortiter striato-punctatis ( punctis rotundatis , medio tuberculo minuto instructis ) , interstitiis haud convexis , parce subtilissime asperato-punctatis , marginibus haud carinatis ; femoribus anticis subtus dent magno armatis .
Long. 5-6 lin. , lat. 2-2f lin. Nine specimens .
Cratopus magnijicus .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 120 .
C. elytris piceo-niger , dense squamulis rotundatis parvis tectis ; squamulis laete viridi vel aurato vel cupreo nitentibus ; sutura laevi .
Long , elytr .
5^ lin. Only two elytra of this most beautiful insect were found by Mr. Gulliver in a spider 's web .
The colours are most brilliant , reflecting bright copper , golden* COLEOPTERA.\#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
emerald green , or pale bluish-green in stripes , according to the position in which the insect is held .
Mr. Gulliver has this note on the species : " I was told that this beetle occurred " very rarely , but is found occasionally concealed in the sheaths of the leaves of xe the maize plant .
" Sitophilus linea , Hbst .
Five examples .
Sitophilus oryzee , Linn. One specimen .
Bhlceophagosoma Woll .
Five specimens , which agreed perfectly with the typical specimen in Mr. Pascoe 's collection from Makian .
Bentar thrum rodriguezi .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 120 .
P. nigro-piceum ( vel .
rufo-piceum ) , convexum , subcylindricum ; capite pone oculos lgevi , front rostroque sat crebre distinct punctatis ; thorace longitudine haud longiore , sat crebre distinct punctato , lateribus bene rotundatis ; elytris thorace paululo latioribus , at 2f longioribus , fere parallelis , fortiter striato-punctatis , interstitiis vix convexiusculis uniseriatim parce punctulatis .
Long. If lin. ( rostr .
inch ) .
The second joint of the funiculus is a little longer than the following .
The rostrum is about two-thirds the length of the thorax , at the apex very finely punctured .
The thorax is a little more narrowed in front than behind .
Five specimens .
Cossonus marginali , Schonh .
A single specimen , which agrees well with the description of this species .
XYLOPHAGA .
Scolytidae .
Tomicus ferrugineus , Fabr .
Three specimens , which I think are without doubt to be referred to this species .
They also agree well with Bostrichus testaceus of Walker from Ceylon .
L0NGIC0RNIA .
Prionidse .
Macrotoma simplex .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 121 . ? .
M. fusca , vix nitida ; capite piceo-nigro , rugoso-punctato ; fchorace longitu3x2 dine duplo latiore , antice paulo angustato , margin antieo flexuoso , angulis anticis obtusiusculis , lateribus haud spinosis ( medio solum irregulariter denticulato ) ante angulos posticos acutos sinuatis , basi utrinque sinuafca , disco crebre fortiter punctato ( medio plaga parya lsevi ) , lateribus fortiter rugosis ; scutello parce subtiliter punc-tulato ; elytris thorace yix latioribus at quintuplo longioribus , basi fortiter punctatis et rugulosis , marginibus plagaque discoidali pallidioribus ruguloso-coriaceis ; pectore longe flavo-pubescente .
Long. 18 lin. , lat. 6^ lin. Two specimens , with a portion of a third .
Cerambycidse .
Xystrocera , Oliy .
The remains of several specimens of this species were found .
Stromatium bar , Fabr .
Three specimens of this widely-distributed species were found .
J ?
horacantTia semipunctata , Fabr .
A single specimen of this strictly Australian species was brought ; doubtlessly introduced .
Lamiidse .
Coptops bid , Fabr .
Six specimens .
Micracantha , Oliv .
Two specimens .
PHYTOPHAGA .
Hispidse .
Cryptonychus Imnbatus ( PI .
LIIX .
, fig. 11 ) .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , 1876 , xviii .
, p. 121 .
C. elongatus , nitidus , depressus , flavo-testaceus ; antennis , thoracis elytro-rumque disco , pectoreque piceo-nigris ; capite sat parvo fere lsevi , medio canaliculato , inter antennas breyiter anguste producto ; oculis nigris ; thorace latitudine haud longiore , antice paululo angustato , post angulos anticos obtusos paulo constricto , margin antico arcuato , angulis posticis vix acutis ; elytris basi thorace vix latioribus post medium paulo ampliatis , sat fortiter.striato-punctatis , interstitiis subtilissime uniseriatim punctulatis , apice declivi , truncato , utrinque carinato .
Long. 3^ lin. , lat. f lin. Five specimens .
COLEOPTERA \#151 ; C. O. WATERHOUSE .
Erotylidae .
Euxestus parkii , Woll .
Pour examples .
I have most carefully compared two of them with the type specimen from Madeira , and I am quite unable to separate them .
The two other examples are black with the head pitchy , but I cannot see any other difference except that the punctuation is seen with a little less difficulty .
Endomychidae .
Trochoidens desjardin Gu6rin .
Seventeen specimens found in wood .
Explanation op Plate LIII .
Fig. 1 .
Probaenus longicornis .
" 2 .
Micraporum nitens .
" 3 .
Ascomma horrida .
" 4 .
Endoeoxelus variegatus .
" 5 .
iEschyntelus ater .
" 6 .
Lachnostema rodriguezi .
" 7 .
Malthacodes pictus .
" 8 .
Xylodes albovaria .
" 9 .
Cistela brunnea .
" 10 .
Balanodes tomentosus .
" 11 .
Cryptonychus limbatus .
Trans , of Venus Exped .
Rodriguez .
Zoology , pi , lIII R. .
Minten cLel , et 11th .
Cole opter a. 'Mintern Bros imp .
*

