VIII Observations on the remarkable Failure of Ilddock-s on the Coasts of Northumberland , Durham , and Yorkshire In two Letters Rom the Rev. Cooper Abbse to lAr .
: lJlagdens MSec .
A. S Read Jurle o4 , 17929 Sundelland .
, May gth , I 79-2* SIR , 1 HE great 105s su$tained -by the counties of Nortllumberland Durham , and Yorkshire , by the almost total failure of Haddocks , during the three last seasons , is a circumstance of seriousconsequence to these maritime counties , and perhaps-not unworthy the notice and attention of the gentleman and philosopher .
As far back as the memory of the oldest man reaches , for about three morlths in the year ( boginning about Martinmas ) , prodigious quantities of haddocks , in fine weatherX were daily caught orl the above !
coasts , which garre employment to great numbers of men , and affiorded a cheap and very acceptable article of food to all ranks of people , high and low .
Besides the consumptnon on and near the coasts , great quantities were constantly carried at least a hundred miles irsto and over the courltry .
Irl the winters 1789 , I a1n very credibly inkrmed and sincerely helieve , that not a tenthousandth part ( I speak much within bounds ) of the usual quantity was taken ; and I can venttlre to sayn the quarltity has been a-otgreatera if not lnuclS lesst for the two last seasonsX to the great astonishment of the 3oor fshermen w..\ I have frequently conversed with the most experienced men in this llrae of business3 to discovern lf possible ) the cause of this extraorctinary failure .
One lman , mtith more teligious subluission than philosophic jutlgment ascribes it to the will and pleasure of the Allnight ; y ; a seconals to the great quantities of ballast cast by the colliers into the sea , at or near the mouths of the rivers tryne and Wear .
But-this seems a very inadequate reason ; for granting this act might in some small degree affict these places for a iw 1niles , yet it could not aiect the coasts at any\#162 ; onsiderable distancea either to the north or stwth .
This last circumstanceo has in solve degree affected the lobsterswithin a fewuliles of the two riversg by fillig up the holes and cavities in or under the rockss where the lobsters used forulerly tv lie and rereat to ln storuly weather ; so that being now irx a great measure deprived of their old abodes of security they are frequentlya in stortms and tempestss throwtl on the sh-ore , shattered and-broken in pieces A third ascribes the failure to the great number of dogfish on the coasts ; lout X suppose the numbe3 : of them to be nearly the samee year by year The dogfish is very voraciouss and a great enelnr ta the fishertnarl and his tackle and therefore never spared when caught : besides , it is well known that dogfish chiefly pur sue the shoals of herrings , which have left these coasts be fore the haddocks come 'n.t A fourth says the ffioal of haddocks has met with beds of copperas at the bottom of the sea , and t31eretoy is poisoned } but svlay should such beds ( supposing the case true ) have worse effects in &lt; 789 , than at ally time before ?
It is an indisputable fact , that rrzany ships , on the retllrn from Archangel , itAl the latter elld of J. 789 , saw immense quantities of haddocks ( no other fish were particularised ) for fifty or sixty leagues ) I believe , Iying dead on the surface of the sea , but\#162 ; old not at that time ascribe any cause for the eventX I believe about tnat time an eruption broke out irs Hecla and wrllaps it may with some degree of probaloility be cvnjectured , that volcanic matter , of noxious quality , may have burst in the sea , and occasioned the above destruction atId fiilure ever since .
^ The few haddocks callght in -789 and -1790 , wtere remark ably large ; these keep nearest the shore : the small ones lie more out to sea ; so that , when fishermell were wont to catcl small hacldocks , they desisted , and came nearer the shore to procure the large ones .
The shoal generally lay about one league from the sIlore was alsout three miles in breallthX and in length extended near the wlaole coasts of the three COU11ties , ita constallt succession , for about three months the b-reed of haddocks seems nearly destroyed !
oll these coas-ts , which is a loss of many thousands of pounds per -annunz to fishermPen and others , besides the loss of a very plentiful and acceptable article vf food to persons of all ranks espectally in the winter season , when the price of provisions bears hard upon te poor .
Mcly I hazard one question .
Is it ; probable that , in the en suing winter } or a few succeeding ones , the Sshery may recover by the return of a shoal of haddocks ?
lFor the two last winters I have waited with ansiety , but in vains for such an evrent to tal &lt; -e place .
I am , &amp;c. : COOPER ABBSG Surldefland May 27 , I 792 .
&gt; SIR , Encouraged by the unexpected and favourable attention paid to my letter by Slr Joseph Banks and yourself9 I have , since the receiptof your favour of the lgth , daily lnounted my horse , to endeavour to gaill further information oll the mysterious subject .
Three days ago , I was fortunate enough to hear of two persons in Northumberland whowere at Archangel in s7Sg , ancS waited upon them yesterday .
As they lived about two miles asunder from each other , the one at North Shields , and the other at a village in the country , I had an opportunity of .
hearing , and asking them questions separatelys --'Their names are , Mr JOHN STOKER , oftlle Ranger , and Mr. JOHN ARMSTRONG , of the Integrity , of North Shields , masters of ships of considerable size and value , men of sober , decetat characters intelligent and respected in their line of profession , from whom I received the following account , which I have every reason to believe true .
That in the latter end of Julyg a789 , on the light passage to Archangel , after doubling the North Cape ( where they joisled eight or ten sail of large ships from various -ports and nations ) , and reducing their latitude from 69 to 685 between Fisher 's Island and Ssveetnose , for about thirty leagues east and south , they , , to their great surprise , for the space of three days , in which they had variable winds , or light airs , fell in with immense quantities of haddocks and coalfish , and no others whaterrer ( the last is an ordinary fish , and perhaps its name may be local here , and unknown to you , but I coniess I do not knowt any other nalne it has ) , lying on the surface of the ocean , and sufficient , from the view they had of them for the three days , to have loaded all the ships therl in company .
That they found them for the space of between twenty and thirty leagues in length , and in breadth , to the east from three to five leaguesX as the ships stood off and on ; but how much farther to the eastX and a few other points , they might extend , these persons cannot pretetld to save , such points being out of their course for the ports they were destitled toO That llSOSt of the fish were dead , though some Brere alive , as appeared by a slight motion of the tail , but in a very weak , feeble state , and 1lklable to sink in the water .
In the above particulars Messrs. STOKER and ARMSTRONG perfectly agree , as to the truth c)f the fact .
Tlle latters through cautious tismidity , prevented l-lis crew from taking up any of the fish ; but the former took on board marly , both deaci and in a dying state , of w}zich he first aze , and thetl suSered his men to do the same : and at Archan ; el gall the remainder to the customhouse officers , without any person reveiving the least injury .
Mr. STOKER having , previous to eating the fish , tried the usual experiment at sea , of ptittin-g sil^7er into the freslln water wherein the fish were boileds the silver was not at all discolouredv Talking with Mr. STOKER ; , in his parlour , I asked hiln how many fish he could take up ill that or any other given spacee EIe arswered3 that in various places : the fish lay so thickX that ir the cosmpass of twelve or fifteen yards a boat load , fironi three to five tcons , might have been taken up : l ; hat he lneasu red several of the haddocks , from two tcs two feet eight inches in leng-th , and six or saven iches deep ; about twice the size of hadeloclrs on our coasts .
That he opetled all the haddocks he took o &lt; board , and in esrery otle of them , both dead and ex pir ; tlg ) he saw the sound mucln inHated or blown up , to which he ascribes the great destruction , but without being able to give any further satisEactory reasorl .
MrZ STOKER\VeI1t frO1n ArChahGe1 0 Onega ; and when Mr ARMSTRONG at the fortner placen related the story to the merchants and inhabitants at the Excilatlge they replied , that they had knowtn and heard of similar accidents ; and that the great cluatltity of thunder and lightning , usual near the Cape , was the reason .
To the above relatlon , which I verily believe to be just and true , I shall not pr.esutne to add a word of my own , but submit the whole to your consideration .
In my excursion along the coast of Northutnberland ?
I found a { isherm-an careening his boats who told mze that , prior to the late:\#163 ; ailure , he had frequentlys with the assistance of two men , taken and sent to Newtcastle , itl otle day , two boat l-oads of haddocksg containing in each from eighty to a hundred score ; but in the last stason he had not , in the whole , taken more than forty or fifty haddocks .
He could give no rea son forth failure but another man attributed the scarcity to the want of 11ard gales of wind f &lt; 3r some yearsX to blow the fish of the Dogger Bank to : these cousts .
the accounts received froxn Messrs. STOKER and RMSTRONG being more autllentic than vzrhat I had heard before , will be a ; sufficient apology , I tr-llst , for the few sligllt variations in my two letters .
I verily believe I cannot trace this subject further , without able instructions from gentlemen well versed in a branch of kllosvledge wherein I am a novice .
Iamj &amp;c. ( SO()PER ABBSa

