II .
" On the Ova and Pseudova of Insects .
" By JOHN LUBBOCK , Esq. , F.R.S. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. Received Nov. 10 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In the 'Philosophical Transactions ' for 1857 , I endeavoured to show that the agamic eggs of Dapknia are formed upon the same type , and consist of the same parts , as any other egg .
My object in undertaking the investigation of which the present paper is the result , was to determine whether the same held good of the agamic eggs or pseudova of Coccus , Cyni_ps , and other insects .
This inquiry was more interesting , because Prof. Huxley had found several differences between the ovarian products of the oviparous and viviparous Aphides ; and because , according to Prof. Leydig , the development of the pseudova in Coccus was extremely peculiar .
My examination of Coccus was concluded , and the results committed to paper , in the early part of June last , but I then found that so little was known , especially in this country , about the development of insect-eggs generally , that I withheld my notes from publication , in order to add to them some account of the process of true egg-formation in the Insecta , which would enable me to point out more satisfactorily the differences between , or the identity of , these two processes .
In all female insects there are two ovaries , each consisting of at least two egg-tubes opening into a common chamber , the uterus .
The egg originates and attains to nearly its full size in the egg-tube , and it is therefore with this portion of the generative organs that we are now mainly concerned .
The egg-tubes differ very much in number and length .
In all the larger orders , except perhaps the Lepidoptera and Heteroptera , some species have very few , while others possess a great many .
Thus in Coleoptera , Lytta vesicatoria has a great many , Lixus has only two ; in Orthoptera , Acheta domestica has a great many , while in a small Locusta I only found six ; in Neuroptera , Libellula has a great many , Psocus only five ; of the Diptera , the majority have many , Melophagus only two ; in Homoptera , Coccus has a great many , while Aphis padi has only three ; in Hymenoptera , Apis mellifica has about 170 , and Chelonus has only two ; and even in so small a group as the Dermaptera , Labidura gigantea has , according to Leon Dufour , only five , while Forficula auricularia has a great number .
The number of egg-germs in each egg-tube differs also very much .
The Lepidoptera , in which the number of egg-tubes is very small , have a great number of egg-germs in each , while the Homoptera , in which the egg-tubes are so numerous , have very few egg-germs in each tube .
On the other hand , in Heteroptera , the number varies very little ; while in Coleoptera , Hymenoptera , and Diptera , it differs greatly , though not so much as that of the egg-tubes .
The number of egg-germs , is , however , by no means so easy to determine as that of the egg-tubes .
It is probable that in each species the number is definite , except perhaps where it is very numerous , as , for instance , in certain Lepidoptera which have more than a hundred .
In most egg-tubes , however , the egg-germs become so " small by degrees , " that it is almost impossible to say exactly how many there are .
Each egg-tube consists generally , if not always , of two membranes .
The outer or muscular one is very evident in Hymenoptera , Geodephaga , Diptera , and indeed in most insects , but in some cases I could not distinguish it .
The inner membrane is delicate and structureless .
On its inner side lies a layer of epithelial cells , which in most parts form a continuous layer ; but in those insects which have a group of vitelligenous cells between each of the egg-germs , they are at these parts more sparingly distributed .
These epithelial cells probably take an active part in the secretion of the yolk in all insects , and are the principal , if not the only organs , which form the yolk in Orthoptera , Pulex , and the Libellulina .
Between each of the egg-germs in Lepidoptera , Diptera , Hymenoptera , Geodephaga , lydradephaga , and Neuroptera ( except the Libellulina ) , is situated a group of large cells .
These were first noticed by Heroldt , who described them as rings ; Stein , however , is no doubt correct in asserting that they are the secretors of the yolk , and I therefore agree with Prof. Huxley in calling them vitelligenous cells .
Hermann Meyer , who was followed in this respect by Dr. Allen Thomson , considered them as aborted eggs , an opinion , however , which is quite untenable .
A cursory examination of anl egg-tube of any Lepidopterous or I-ymenopterous insect , will show that although the vitelligenous cells increase individually in size , as does the yolk mass , yet that the latter constantly grows at the expense of the former* , which become gradually fewer in number , and finally disappear altogether .
Stein has observed , that in Acilius szicctus , in which the yolk is brightly coloured , the vitelligenous cells are of the same hue .
Prof. Iuxley has observed in Aphis , and I have found in certain Hemiptera , as in Nepa for instance , a canal leading down from the terminal chlamber into the egg-tube , and which can be for no other purpose than to convey the yolk matter to the growing eggs .
Finally , if , as Stein also remarks , we press the vitelligenous cells or nuclei out of one of the egg-chambers , we shall generally find some of them in which the cell-wall is almost entirely absorbed , so that on the application of slight pressure , the contents spread in all directions .
In its earliest stage , however , the egg-cell cannot be distinguished from the vitelligenous cells , and at the upper part of the egg-tube of any Heteropterous or Dipterous insect , will be found cells , which are neither vitelligenous cells nor egg-cells , but which are apparently capable , under certain circumstances , of becoming either the one or the other .
Dr. Carpenter has suggested to me that these vitelligenous cells are perhaps analogous to the ' " yolk-segments " of Purpura , and this idea throws , I think , some light on the very remarkable phenomena presented by that genus .
The separation of the egg-germs from the vitelligenous organs , is a condition found in many worms , in some crustacea , as for instance in Cyclops , and probably in the Cirrhipedes .
Our knowledge of the modes of egg-formation in the Insecta , is perhaps hardly sufficient to enable us to generalize upon it as yet with much confidence .
As far , however , as we at present are aware , alternate groups of large vitelligenous cells are found in all Lepidoptera , Diptera , Hymenoptera , Neuroptera ( except Libellulina ) , Geodephaga , and Hydradephaga .
The large vitelligenous cells are contained in a terminal chamber in other Coleoptera , Homoptera , and Heteroptera ; whilst apparently they are absent in Orthoptera , Libellulina , and Pulex .
This curious subdivision of the Insecta is not exactly that which would be given by any other characters .
It is , however , remarkable , that the mode of formation of the thorax would divide the Insecta into two groups very nearly equivalent to those just mentioned , except as far as regards the Geodephaga and Hydradephaga .
In fact , the Coleoptera , Orthoptera , Dermaptera , and Hemiptera have a very large prothorax , while this segment is small in the Lepidoptera , Diptera , H-ymenoptera , and most Neuroptera .
In the Libellulina , however , it is distinct from the rest of the thorax and considerably developed .
In the Orthoptera , Libellulina , and the genus Pulex , we find the simplest type of egg-formation which occurs among the Insecta , the large vitelligenous cells being entirely absent , and their functions probably monopolised , instead of being only shared , by the layer of epithelial cells .
The macula germinativa , which is in fact the nucleus of the germinal vesicle , has in the Orthoptera , as usual , the form of a small round vesicle .
In ( Estrus the germinal vesicle contains several small vesicles , one of which grows much larger than the remainder , and becomes the macula germinativa .
In Pulex the germinal vesicle is dark , and the macula germinativa , which is very distinct in the young egg-germs , soon disappears .
In the Coleoptera ( except the Geodephaga and Hydradephaga ) , the Homoptera , and the Hemiptera , each egg-tube ends in a large terminal chamber , full of round cells , each of which can apparently become either an egg-cell or a vitelligenous cell .
In Nepa and some other forms , I found , as Prof. Huxley first discovered in phtis , a duct or passage leading down from the terminal chamber to the egg-germs .
In one specimen there were four distinct ducts , so that probably each egg-germ has a separate yolk duct .
In Nepa there is a large lateral projection at the anterior end of each egg , and it is always on the same side as the germinal vesicle ; but this latter varies from side to side without any apparent regularity .
In the common earwig , the egg-tubes are short and numerous ; each consists of a large , lower chamber , which is more or less pearshaped , and two or three other chambers , but slightly separated from one another , bent down on the lower chamber , and so short and small as to resemble very closely the stalk to the pear .
Each egg-germ in this insect consists of two parts ; an egg-cell containing the germinal vesicle and the yolk , and a vitelligenous cell .
The vitelligenous cell has no distinct nucleus , and in the small stalk-like part of the egg-tube is double the size of the egg-cell , which at this period contains the germinal vesicle , but not as yet any yolk matter .
In this part of the egg-tube it sometimes appeared as if there were two vitelligenous cells to one egg-cell .
In the large lower egg-germ this is never the case .
In this part of the egg-tube the vitelligenous cell is still larger than the egg-cell , which however grows larger , both absolutely and relatively , until it almost fills the egg-chamber .
The yolk mass in the lower egg-germn consists of dark granules and oil globules surrounding the germinal vesicle , which generally contains two or three minute cell-like vesicles .
The contents of the vitelligenous cell are light brown , granular , and in part arranged in somewhat cylindrical masses , which lie generally rather transversely to the egg-tube , and do not appear to have any firm boundaries .
At least , I was never able to isolate them , except after applying reagents , as , for instance , acetic acid , and then only sometimes , and with difficulty .
They then appeared to be somewhat elliptic in shape .
From M. Leon Dufour 's description , the ovary in Labidura gigantea is entirely unlike that of _Foficzla .
The egg-formation in Forficula is not the least remarkable peculiarity of this extraordinary genus , and does not at all resemble that of either the Coleoptera or the Orthoptera .
The Neuroptera ( except the Libellulina ) offer the next step towards the type which prevails in the Lepidoptera , Hymenoptera , and Diptera .
In these four orders , and in the Geodephaga and Hydradephaga , each egg-chamber contains , at its upper end , a group of large vitelligenous cells , which are generally few in number in the Neuroptera , rather more numerous in the Diptera , and still more so in the Geodephaga , Hydradephaga , and Hymenoptera .
In all these six groups , except the Diptera , each egg-chamber is divided into two parts by a transverse constriction , which separates the vitelligenous cells from the germinal vesicle and the yolk surrounding it .
At first , the lower division of the egg-chamber is quite small , but it grows gradually larger at the expense of the upper part .
In the Diptera the egg-chamber is not divided into two smaller chambers , but has a rounded or oval form , and contains a number of vitelligenous cells , the lowest of which becomes darker from the formation of granular yolk-matter , and thus forms the egg-cell .
Its nucleus becomes the germinal vesicle .
The wall of the egg-cell gradually disappears , and the yolk-mass being enlarged by the yolk secreted by the vitelligenous cells , continues to increase until it occupies the whole egg-chamber .
Between each egg-germ , in the Diptera , the egg-tube becomes extremely narrow , which is not so much the case in other Insecta .
It is remarkable , that Pulex , which is in many respects nearly allied to the Diptera , should differ from them so greatly in the mode of eggformation .
The germinal vesicle in the Carabidae generally contains , besides the macula germinativa , several small vesicles , which indeed are sometimes very numerous .
In Carabus violaceus , the macula itself appeared to consist of many small oval masses , and in one specimen the macula appeared to have broken up , and the constituent bodies were floating about loose in the germinal vesicle .
From these observations , and from what has been mentioned as occurring in Pulex , I am disposed to think that the first embryonic cells , at least in Insecta , appear in this manner .
According to M. Leon Dufour , Chelonus oculator , one of the small Ichneumonidle , possesses no ovary nor eggs , but merely four long tubes leading into as many matrices , containing a great number of living embryos , or perhaps nymphs .
I examined several specimens , and found the female generative organs quite in accordance with his descriptions and figure .
They are , however , undoubtedly true ovaries , though the thickness of the outer membrane gives them a deceptive appearance .
If the egg-tubes are torn asunder , egg-germs will be found in them , as in the corresponding organs of any other Hymenopterous insect , and presenting as usual a transverse constriction with the vitelligenous cells in the upper division .
In the four matrices the eggs are cylindrical and somewhat curved , and under the action of water , one end of each swells up considerably .
In this they present an approach to that form which attains its greatest development in Cynips .
The ovaries of Coccus hesperidum have been rightly described by Prof. Leydig , as consisting of a long tube on each side opening by a very short oviduct into the egg-canal .
The whole surface of the tube is covered with egg-germs in all stages of development .
The collateral glands are very small in C. hesperidmun , but are well developed in C. persicce .
In its earliest stage the egg-follicle is a simple projection of the ovarian wall , which becomes gradually pear-shaped , and may then be seen to consist of a structureless outer membrane , a layer of epithelial cells , and .
three vitelligenous cells , with very delicate walls .
The walls of these cells soon disappear , and even the nuclei are often scarcely distinguishable , but acetic acid will generally make them more visible .
Leuckart has given a correct account of these bodies , and indeed of the whole process ; but Leydig apparently mistook them for germinal vesicles .
The epithelial cells line the membrane constituting the egg-follicle .
As usual , they are columnar in the lower chamber and flattened and scattered in the upper .
They contain a circular nucleus .
The action of water causes them , and indeed the whole upper chamber , to swell considerably .
The columnar epithelial cells of the lower chamber contain generally small greenish globules , apparently identical with the small oil globules which form so large a part of the yolk , which is , I therefore suppose , in part secreted by them .
The germinal vesicle makes its appearance after the vitelligenous cells , and generally after the egg-follicle has lost its original pyriformshape .
It is about *0008 in diameter .
The macula germinativa is single , and somewhat granular in appearance .
About the same time as the germinal vesicle , the oil globules make their appearance , and soon become the most conspicuous part of the egg .
They are at first very small , but in a mature egg the larger ones are as much as '0016 in diameter .
The oil globules may often be seen with their sides much flattened by mutual pressure , and must therefore possess a somewhat compact pellicle .
Very soon after the appearance of the first oil globules , the eggfollicle loses its pear-shaped form , the basal part swells , and is separated from the apical part containing the nuclei of the vitelligenous cells , by a constriction .
It now perfectly resembles the egg-chamber of any ordinary insect , in consisting of an upper chamber containing the vitelligenous cells , and a lower chamber devoted to the germinal vesicle and the yolk .
According to M. Leydig , the constriction gradually disappears , and the egg finally occupies both chambers ; but this is incorrect , and M. Leuckart is right in asserting that the vitelligenous cells disappear , and the upper chamber becomes atrophied , so that the mature egg lies in the lower chamber only .
This process is exactly that which the analogy of other insects would lead us to expect .
The general cavity of the body of the female Coccus always contains an immense number of oval green cells , apparently of a parasitic nature .
They are x-~o in length , and vary in length , but on an average about o-0-oo Coccus persicce contains a number of similar bodies , which however are cylindrical .
Almost always immediately after the disappearance of the vitelligenous cells , two or three masses of these cells may be found at the lower part of the upper chamber , and soon after in the egg itself .
It is difficult to understand why these cells should appear at so definite a period in the history of the eggformation .
Prof. Huxley has pointed out to me that Dr. V. Wittich has already described a Conferva found in hen 's eggs .
It does not , however , seem clear that these eggs would have arrived at maturity , and I believe that the parasites of Coccus are the first which have ever been known to exist in eggs without impeding their development .
The mature egg contains numerous vitelline sphaerules which are from 2 -b to - , in diameter , and offer every appearance of true cells , but that they contain no nucleus .
b21 t The mature egg is a light green , ovate mass about 2-in length and 28-o in breadth , and possesses apparently only one envelope .
It contains a well-formed embryo before it leaves the ovary , and is hatched , I believe , only a few hours after being laid .
According to M. Leydig , the first trace of the embryo arises at the free or cephalic end , but my observations have led me to the opposite conclusion .
C. persicc differs from C. hesperidum in being decidedly oviparous ; that is to say , the eggs , when deposited , do not contain an embryo , and remain under the protection of the mother some time before being hatched .
This difference probably makes tehm require a stronger egg-shell , and accordingly we find the collateral glands more developed .
In most respects , however , the egg-development is very similar in these two species , but the egg-follicles are smaller and neater in C. persicce than in the former species , and the vitelligenous cells are five or seven in number instead of three , spherical and very distinct .
In Cynips lignicola , the ovary consists of a number of egg-tubes which fall into a common oviduct , and each of which contains thirteen eggs .
This species has in the last few years become very common in the South-west of England , but as yet only females have been discovered .
It is fair to assume , therefore , that the eggs are agamic , or adopting Prof. Huxley 's name , pseudova .
Nevertheless , there is absolutely nothing , so far as our knowledge at present extends , to distinguish the egg-formation from that which occurs in any other Hymenopterous insect .
The mature egg of Cynips is indeed of a very remarkable shape , as it consists of a long tube with a small swelling at one end , and a larger one at the other , in which the yolk is situated .
The larger end occupies the usual place of the egg , but as the tube elongates , the smaller end pushes its way up the egg-tube , which elongates considerably ; and , finally , all the large ends are at the lower end , and the small ones at the upper end , of the egg-tube , which gives the ovary a curious appearance .
Even after the egg is fully formed , a slight pressure will bring the germinal vesicle into view .
Many of the Lepidoptera have presented us with cases of Parthenogenesis , and in these instances there is no reason to suppose that the formation of the eggs differs from the usual type .
The same holds good in Solenobia lichenella , in which agamic eggs are the rule , instead of the exception .
In the Hive-bee also , the early development of the ova and of the pseudova must apparently be identical , since it would appear that in an impregnated female , the ovarian product has already left the ovary before it is decided whether it is to become an ovum or a pseudovum , and whether it is to give birth to a male or to a female .
It is , therefore , I think , proved that we must not look in the ovarian egg for differences necessarily depending on sexual influence , but that we shall find them , if anywhere , in the subsequent stages of eggdevelopment .
Prof. Huxley and Leuckart have recently shown , that whereas the vitelligenous cells are well developed in the oviparous Aphides , they are much less apparent in the agamic or viviparous forms ; so much so indeed as to make these naturalists doubt whether they take any part in the secretion of the yolk .
While waiting for the publication of Prof. Huxley 's observations , I have paid but little attention to the Aphides ; but it struck me as a curious coincidence , that , in Coccus also , while the vitelligenous cells are very distinct in the oviparous C. persicce , they are much less apparent in the almost viviparous C. hesperidum .
It would of course be highly unphilosophical to draw any conclusion from four instances , but it will be curious if the same connection between oviparity , and the presence of well-developed vitelligenous cells on the one hand , and viviparity , with less developed vitelligenous cells on the other , is found to prevail in other species .
It has been generally stated that all species of Aphides are , in spring and summer , self-fertile and viviparous , and become in autumn oviparous , while the eggs require impregnation .
I cannot , however , help thinking it probable , that in cold and in mountainous regions , where at any period of the year frosts may occur , we shall find species which are always oviparous ( as indeed is said to be the case with Aphis abietis ) ; while in tropical regions , where frosts are unknown and leaves are less often deciduous , other species may occur which are naturally viviparous all through the year , and whether or not they have undergone impregnation .

