]\gt ; 10- The Influence of the Solvent on the of bsorption B in Solutions .
By T. H. HAVELOCK , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Armstrong College , Newcastle-on-Tyne .
( Communicated by Sir Joseph Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received October 19 , \mdash ; Read November 9 , 1911 .
1 .
The absorption spectra of solutions of the same substance differ according to the nature of the solvent , the absorption bands varying in position and in character .
An attempt wns made by Kundt*to reduce the variations to order by a rule which was based on experiment ; he concluded that the effect of the solvent was to displace the absorption bands further towards the longer wave-lengths , the greater the refraciFive or dispersive power of the solvent .
If this rule had proved sufficient , one have inferred that the molecules of the dissolved substance move about in the solvent without any essential change in constitution .
Further experiments have showu that the problem is by no means so simple ; although Kundt 's rule expresses a true effect , there is also the influence , often more important , of physical or chemical molecular changes such as are expressed by the terms association , dissociation , and solvation .
Even apart from these complications , the matter does not appear to have been considered theoretically to any extent .
It seems desirable to supply a definite formulation of Kundt 's rule , such as can be obtained by using a suitable type of dispersion formula ; one may then attempt in some cases a numerical estimate of the effects which can be ascribed to its operation .
2 .
The Sellmeier type of formula , in which , is not sufficiently elastic to include the effect of the solvent .
For a region of selective absorption , , the maximum occurs near , the upper limit of the range of crths for which is negative ; is also the wave-length of the natural vibrations , and is presumably a molecular quantity independent of the surrounding medium .
The only method with this type of formula would be to assert a direct change in the free molecular periods , a remark which applies also to the effect of change of density as well as of refractive index of the medium .
On the other hand , for a dispersion formula with in place of , a maximum of absorption is near a length , which differs from by an amount involving the constants of the formula ; in other words , the position of maximum absorption is dependent upon the density and optical nature of the medium .
This holds A. Kundt , ' Ann. der Physik , ' , vol. 4 , p. 34 .
Dr. Havelock .
Influence of the Solvent on the [ Oct. 19 , true with any constant value of , provided it is not zero .
We shall find it sufficient here the form with equal to noting t. possibility of further refinements .
We have , estimate the change of position of an absorption band when the absorbing particles mmersed i , differently refracting media .
3 .
Let , be the refractive index , weight , and density of a mixture of weights and of two substances whose indices and densities are , and , respectively .
In regions free from absorption , a simple law of mixtures has been proved capable of expressing the results of experiment , In ions of anomalous dispersion there is not so much evidence , but one instance is the calculation Hurion from a simila formula for a solution of iodine in carbon disulphide ; he deduced values of the refractive inde iodine which agree well with those obtained since by direct measurement .
We assume , then , that the same law of mixtures holds near a region of selective absorption , and we simplify the calculations by supposing that near such a region for the subst the solvent ( n2 ) has normai slight dispersion .
We further that in this region for the salt we have , with accuracy , ( 2 ) .
From this formula , for the undiluted absorbing salt , the wave-length is equal to .
To obtain the actual maximum of absorption one must complete ( 2 ) by including terms denoting true absorption for an ) investigation oloe may refer to a previous paperJ where it is shown that the maximum occurs at a wave-length rather less than , but this difference is only appreciable for strong absorptlon .
For the solution we have from ( 1 ) ( 3 ) It is sufficient for the present purpose to make constant at its value .
in the neighbourhood of .
Equation ( 2 ) oan be reduced to ; ; . .
( 4 ) *Cf .
C. Cheveneau , 'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Ph 1907 , vol. Hurion , ' Ann. de ] ' ] ] ' Norm 1878 , vol. 6 , p. 367 .
Boy .
Soc. Proc , this volume , 1911 .
] Position of Absorption Bands in Solutions .
We have a similar transformation for ( 3 ) , in which for we write , and for we put Writing for ) , we have for the solution under the limitations which have been specified ; .
( 5 ) As a general result we can see that moves further to the longer wave-lengths from , according as the solvent increases the quantity ; further , since the intensity of the absorption depends in part on , it follows that the maximum absorption should be greater in those solvents which the greater displacement of In comparing with experiment we have to distinguish between mixtures with constant volumes of the two constituents and those with constant proportions by weight .
To avoid further complication of formulae , which would not affect materially the general conclusions , we ignore any change in the total volume ; so that if is the total volume , composed of volumes and of the components , we write and For constant proportions by weight , is greater as is less ; that is , increases as decreases .
On the other hand , for constant volumes the denominator in is ; so that increases as decreases , that is , as or the refi.active index increases .
4 .
Th6 simplest way of testing these expressions , qualitatively at least , is to take a sample of Kundt 's original experiments .
For instance , 4 .
of an alcoholic solution of cyanine were mixed with 6 .
of some solvent ; taking the middle of the band for methyl alcohol as zero , the displacements are shown on an arbitrary scale in Table I. There also shown the values of and of for the solvents , calculated from Kundt 's data .
Since constant proportions by volume were used , the order of the displacements should be that of ; one sees that this is practically the case , while there are considerable changes in the last column .
5 .
The index of extinction , , has been measured by Stockl* for solutions of iodine in various solvents .
It is known that molecular condition varies in this case ; for solutions in water and alcohol , the Stockl , ' Messungon uber Dispersion und Absorption , ' Diss .
, Munich , 1900 .
VOL LXXXVI.\mdash ; A. Dr. Havelock .
Influence of the Solvent on the [ Oct. 19 , Table I. molecule is considered to be , while in ether , carbon disulphide , and chloroform , it may be .
Taking Stockl 's results for the last three , we have Iodine in ether maximum of is 59 .
at chloroform , , 120 .
, 5075 , , carbon disulphide , , 147 .
, 5090 This agrees with the statement above , that the greater absorption is associated with the greater displacement .
Also we see from Table I that the order is that of increasing refractive index .
In these experiments constant were taken , that order should that This would alter the order of the last two solvents , but , on the other hand , the numerical magnitudes agree rather better , for chloroform and carbon disulphide have practically the same values , while differing considerably from ether .
6 .
It would be more satisfactory if dispersion formulae were known for some absorbing substance with fair accuracy , without being too complicated .
For instance , such formulae have been elaborated for cyanine , but only by analysing the principal absorption region into seven subordinate maxima .
Konigsbeger and Kilching*have measured the absorption and dispersion of fuchsin , and have given several estimates for dispersion formulae ; one finds that these were selected to agree with the values of , but they do not give correctly .
The simplest plan is to use the following values , which agree approximately with and in the neighbourhood of the maximum of at .
5 .
; ; ( 6 ) ; ; ; * Konigsberger and Kilching , 'Ann .
der Phys 1909 , vol. 28 , p. 889 ; also 1910 , vol. 32 , p. 843 .
1911 .
] Position of Absorption Bands in Solutions .
These values give a maximum of at 521 .
By a calculation based on ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) we find To compare Stockl 's work we form a mixture of parts by weight of fuchsin with one part of alcohol , taking the densities to be and respectively .
We have to transform the formula ( 6 ) to the form in and then use the expressions in ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) .
We find for this solution that is 4594 A.U. If we take from Table I the solvent that would give the greatest change , carbon disulphide , the solution to be possible , we should find .
Thus the change from alcohol to carbon disulphide would mean an inappreciable variation of .
But it mus be noticed that the solutions are very dilute compared with those used Kundt ; if we made the concentration 100 times as great we should have \amp ; displacement of the order of 25 A.U. Using various dilute solutions of fuchsin in alcohol , Stockl deduced from a certain type of dispersion formula the value of in each case , and found an average value of ; he concludes that this is the position of maximum absorption for solid fuchsin .
This value agrees with direct observations on the solid , but the deduction is not correct ; for the undiluted absorbing substance the intensity of absorption is such that the maximum is at 10 or 15 less than .
In addition , for the dilute solutions should agree with the observed maxima , but these lie between 530 and 540 .
One concludes that the maximum of absorption for fuchsin deduced from observations on alcoholic solutions does not agree with that observed directly in the solid substance .
From the calculations above it appears that the former wave-length would be considerably greater than the latter .
In this connection reference may be made to some observations which lead to a similar inference .
It is known that in many solid substances , including fuchsin , rise of temperature causes a displacement of the maximum absorption towards the red ; Betschinksy*has found that a large change also occurs in the same direction when certain salts pass from the solid to the fluid state at constant temperature .
7 .
One must refer , in conclusion , to researches which point more directly to the formation of molecular aggregates as a chief cause of variation in absorption spectra of the same salt in various solvents , in particular to the work of Jones and Anderson and of Jones and Strong .
With solutions of certain ] of neodymium and praesodymium in mixtures of two solvents , say , water and alcohol , it is stated that two sets of bands peculiar to the two solvents co-exist in fixed positions , the intensities being functions of the * T. Retschinksy , ' Ann. der Phys 1908 , , p. 100 .
' Carnegie Inst. , Washington , Publications , ' 110 and 130 , 1909\mdash ; 1910 .
Mr. G. D. West .
On the Resistance to the [ Sept. 18 , relative amounts of the solvents present .
Of course , on any simple theory of Kundt 's rule , such as we have given above , in usinga mixture of two solvents and gradually altering the proportions , there would be a gradual displacement of the bands ; one would merely add to equation ( 3 ) a term in similar to that in .
On this view one pictures each absorbing unit , supplied by the dissolved salt , as surrounded by the same average medium .
On the other hand , the solvation theory indicates a division of the absorbers into two classes , each class composed of units with an immediate atmosphere of one of the solvents .
One could ouly express this formally in ( 3 ) by dividing the term in into two similar terms with slightly altered values of , but this procedure would not lead far .
In the meantime , a definite expression of Kundt 's rule may be of use in leading to an estimate of its effect in simple cases .
On the Resistance to the Motion of a Thread of Mercury in Tube .
By GILBERT D. WEST , B.Sc. , East London College , University of London .
( Communicated by Prof. C. H. Lees , F.R.S. Received September 18 , \mdash ; Read November 23 , 1911 .
) The number of physical measurements which depend on the observation of a short thread of mercury in a glass tube is considerable .
Rankine 's recent determinations of the viscosities of gases , by driving the gases through a tube by the pressure of such a thread , may be mentioned as an example .
Notwithstanding the frequent use of the mercury thread , there does not appear to be any definite knowledge as to the connection between the motion of the thread and the forces which must act in it to produce that motion .
It is the object of the present work to investigate the point .
It is comparatively well known that the upper surface of a drop of clean mercury which is slowly rising in a vertical glass tube , is more convex than when the drop is stationary , whilst the lower surface is less convex .
whole of the resistance the drop offers to motion has been attributed to this change of the angle of contact of mercury and glass .
This is correct for wide bore tubes , but in narrow bore tubes viscous forces come into play .
When the drop is moving upwards with a given speed , let and be the upper and lower angles of contact of the mercury with the glass , then the resistance to the motion due to surface teusion is

