March 7 , 1850 .
LIEUT.-COLONEL REID , R.E. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " &lt; On the application of Carbon deposited in Gas Retorts as the negative plate in the Nitric Acid Voltaic Battery .
" By Christopher Leefe Dresser , Esq. Communicated by Thomas Bell , Esq. , Sec. R.S. &amp;c. In the retorts used for the destructive distillation of coal to obtain the carburetted hydrogen gas for the purposes of illumination , after a certain time a deposition of carbonaceous matter takes place , and which at length accumulates to such an extent as to fill up a portion of the retort with solid substance , and to line the whole with a coating varying from the thickness of paper to several inches .
After describing several forms in which this substance occurs , and which vary consilerably both in density and hardness , the author states that he found one of great hardness , very little , if at all , porous , and of a stony fracture , to be best adapted for the negative conductor of his nitric acid battery .
The most convenient form for the negative conductor is the prismatic , 1inch square on the side and about 7 inches long , which is immersed 4 inches in the acid , and used with round porous cells , the zinc cylinder being 3 inches in diameter and 4A inches high .
The carbon is cut into thin plates or prisms by the machine of the marble cutter , at a cost of about l1d .
each .
The prisms may be easily obtained 12 , 14 , or 18 inches long .
The only precautions necessary in using this form of carbon , are , after using the plates to immerse them for a few moments in boiling water , to take off the adhering acid , and then to dry them before a fire or in a stove .
Having used the same plates and prisms for months , the author detected no deterioration of their conducting power , nor any decomposition or alteration .
The connexion was made by solderingD a strip of sheet copper to the zinc , and pressing this strongly against the carbon with a clamp .
Comparing these plates with plates of platinum , the author could detect little difference in action , but the carbon appeared rather superior .
He states that his battery of 100 plates cost under ?
4 , whilst one of platinum of equal power would have cost ?
60 or ?
70 .
From the cheapness and durability of this substance , he considers that it will make a valuable addition to our voltaic apparatus .
A paper was also in part read , entitled " Experimental Itesearches in Electricity .
" Twenty-third Series .
ยง 29 .
On the Polar or other condition of Diamagnetic Bodies .
By Michael Faraday , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c.

