XII .
" On the Microscopical Structure of Meteorites .
" By H. C. SORBY , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 7 , 1864 .
For some time past I have endeavoured to apply to the study of meteorites the prilnciples I have made use of in the investigation of terrestrial rocks , as described in my various papers , and especially in that on the microscopical structure of crystals ( Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. 1858 , vol. xiv .
p. 453 ) .
I therein showed that the presence in crystals of " fluid- , glass- , stone- , or gas-cavities " enables us to determine in a very satisfactory manner under what conditions the crystals were formed .
There are also other methods of inquiry still requiring much investigation , and a number of experiments must be made which will occupy much time ; yet , not wishing to postpone the publication of certain facts , I purpose now to give a short account of them , to be extended and completed on a subsequent occasion* .
In the first place it is important to remark that the olivine of meteorites contains most excellent " glass-cavities , " similar to those in the olivine of lavas , thus proving that the material was at one time in a state of igneous fusion .
The olivine also contains " gas-cavities , " like those so common in volcanic minerals , thus indicating the presence of some gas or vapour ( Aussun , Parnallee ) .
To see these cavities distinctly , a carefully prepared thin section and a magnifying power of several hundreds are required .
The vitreous substance found in the cavities is also met with outside and amongst the crystals , in such a manner as to show that it is the uncrystalline residue of the material in which they were formed ( Mez6-Madaras , Parnallee ) .
It is of a claret or brownish colour , and possesses the characteristic structure and optical properties of artificial glasses .
Some isolated portions of meteorites have also a structure very similar to that of stony lavas , where the shape and muitual relations of the crystals to each other prove that they were formed in situ , on solidification .
Possibly some entire meteorites should be considered to possess this peculiarity ( Stannern , New Concord ) , but the evidence is by no means conclusive , and what crystalli .
zation has taken place in situ may have been a secondary result ; whilst in others the constituent particles have all the characters of broken fragments ( L'Aigle ) .
This sometimes giv-es rise to a structure remarkably like that of consolidated volcanic ashes , so much , indeed , that I have specimens which , at first sight , might readily be mistaken for sectionis of meteorites .
It would therefore appear that , after the material of the meteorites was miielted , a considerable portionl was broken up ilito small fragmenits , subsequently collected together , and more or less consolidated by mechanical and chemical actions , amongst which must be classed a segregation of iron , either in the metallic state or in combinationi with other substances .
Apparently this breaking up occurred in some cases when the melted matter had become crystallinie , but in others the forms of the particles lead me to conclude that it was broken up inito detached globules whilst still melted ( MezbjMadaras , Parnallee ) .
This seems to have been the origin of some of the round grains met with in meteorites ; for they occasiornally still contain a considerable amount of glass , aldi the crystals which have been formed in it are arranged in groups , radiating from one or more points on the external surface , in such a manner as to inidicate that they were developed after the fragments had acquired their present splheroidal shape ( Aussun , &amp;c. ) .
In this they differ most cliaracteristically from the general type of concretionary globules found in terrestrial rocks , in which they radiate from the centre ; the only case that I know at all analogous being that of certain oolitic grailns in the Kelloways rock at Scarborough , which have undergorne a secondary crystallization .
These facts are all quite independent of the fuised black cruLst .
Some of the minerals in meteorites , usually colnsidered to be the same as those in volcanic rocks , have yet very characteristic differences in structure ( Stannern ) , which I shall describe at greater length on a fiuture occasion .
I will then also give a full account of the microscopical structure of meteoric iron as compared with that produced by various artificial pr ocesses , showing that under certain conditions the latter muay be obtained so as to resemble very closely some valrieties of mneteoric origini ( Newstead , &amp;c. ) .
There are thus certain peculiarities in physical structure which connect meteorites with volcanic rocks , and at the same time others in which they differ most characteristically , -facts which I think must be borne in mind , not only in forming a conclusion as to the origin of meteorites , but also in attempting to explain volcanic action in genleral .
The discussion of suelh questions , however , should , I thinik , be deferred until a more complete account can be given of all the data on which these conclusions are founded .

