253 1885 .
] Agency of Water in Volcanic Eruptions .
is about an inch in length , and a quarter of an inch across the instep , from which it tapers elliptically to a pointed toe , while the heel at the anterior extremity is abruptly truncated and broadly notched .
The slipper is ornamented with eight principal spiny ridges , taking a longitudinal direction , diverging from the toe and terminating separately at the heel .
But the central vertical ridge corresponding iwith the front of the slipper is cut off where a square notch or fissure in the instep receives the muscular attachment of the animal .
The whole scheme of arrangement will be better understood on inspecting the accompanying figure , which is about three times the natural size .
III .
" On the Agency of Water in Volcanic Eruptions ; with some Observations on the Thickness of the Earth 's Crust from a Geological Point of View ; and on the Primary Cause of Volcanic Action .
" By Joseph Prestwich , F.R.S. , Professor of Geology in the University of Oxford .
Received March 26 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) That water plays an important part in volcanic eruptions is a well-established fact , but there is a difference of opinion as to whether it should be regarded as a primary or a secondary agent , and as to the time , place , and mode of its intervention .
The author gives the opinions of Daubeny , Poulett-Scrope , and Mallet , and dismissing the first and last as not meeting the views of geologists , proceeds to examine the grounds of Scrope 's hypothesis \#151 ; the one generally accepted in this country\#151 ; which holds that the rise of lava in a volcanic vent is occasioned by the expansion of volumes of high pressure steam generated in the interior of a mass of liquefied and heated mineral matter within or beneath the eruptive orifice , or that volcanic eruptions are to be attributed to the escape of high pressure steam existing in the interior of the earth .
The way in which the water is introduced and where , is not explained , but as the expulsion of the lava is considered to be due to the force of the imprisoned vapour , it is , of course , necessary that it should extend to the very base of the volcanic foci , just as it is necessary that the powder must be in the breech of the gun to effect the expulsion of the ball .
The author then proceeds to state his objections to this hypothesis .
In the first place , he questions whether it is possible for water to penetrate to a heated or molten magma underlying the solid crust .
The stratigraphical difficulties are not insurmountable , although it is well known that the quantity of water within the depths actually 254 Prof. J. Prestwich .
On [ Apr. 16 j reached in mines , decreases , as a rule , with the depth , and is less in the Palaeozoic than in the Mesozoic and Kainozoic strata .
The main difficulty is thermo-dynamical .
As the elastic vapour of water increases with the rise of temperature , and faster at high than at low temperatures , the pressure , \#151 ; which at a depth of about 7,500 feet and with a temperature ( taking the thermometric gradient at 48 feet per 1 ' F. ) of 212 ' F. , would be equal to that of one atmosphere only , \#151 ; would at a depth of 15,000 feet and a temperature of 362 ' , be equal to 10^ atmospheres , and at 20,000 feet and temperature of 467 ' , would exceed 25 atmospheres .
Beyond this temperature the pressure has only been determined by empirical formul\#174 ; , which , as the increase of pressure is nearly proportional to the fifth power of the excess of temperature , would show that the pressure , in presence of the heat at greater depths , becomes excessive .
Thus , if the formulas hold good to the critical point of water or 773 ' , there would at that temperature be a pressure of about 350 atmospheres .
\#166 ; At temperatures exceeding 1000 ' F. and depth of about 50,000 feet , the experiments of M. H. St. Claire Deville have shown that the vapour of water , under certain conditions , probably undergoes dissociation , and , consequently , a large increase in volume .
It would follow also on this that if the water-vapour had been subject to the long-continued action of the high temperatures of great depths , we might expect to meet with a less amount of steam and a larger proportion of its constituent gases than occurs in the eruptions .
Capillarity will assist the descent , and pressure will cause the water to retain its fluidity to considerable depths , but with the increasing heat , capillarity loses its power .
Taking these various conditions into consideration , the author doubts whether the surface waters can penetrate to depths of more than seven to eight miles , and feels it impossible to accept any hypothesis based upon an assumed percolation to unlimited depths .
That there should be open fissures through which water could penetrate to the volcanic foci , he also considers an impossibility .
But the objection to which the author attaches most weight against the extravasation of the lava being due to the presence of vapour in the volcanic foci , is , that if such were the case , there should be a distinct relation between the discharge of the lava .and of the vapour , whereas the result of an examination of a number of well-recorded eruptions , shows that the two operations are in no relation and are perfectly independent .
Sometimes there has been a large discharge of lava and little or no escape of steam , and at other times there have been paroxysmal explosive eruptions with little discharge of lava .
There are instances in which the lava of Vesuvius has welled out almost with the tranquillity of a water-spring .
A great eruption of Etna commenced with violent explosions and ejection of scori\#174 ; , 1885 .
] Agency of Water in Volcanic Eruptions .
255 which after sixteen days ceased , but the flow of lava continued for four months without further explosions .
In the eruption of Santorin of 1866 , the rock-emission proceeded for days in silence , the protruded mass of lava forming a hill nearly 500 feet long by 200 feet high , which a witness compared with the steady and uninterrupted growth of a soap bubble .
The eruptions of Mauna Loa are remarkable for their magnitude and at the same time for their quiet .
Speaking of the eruptions of 1855 , Dana says there was no earthquake , no internal thunderings , and no premonitions .
A vent or fissure was formed , from which a vast body of liquid lava flowed rapidly but quietly , and without steam explosions , for the space of many months .
On the other hand , paroxysmal eruptions are generally accompanied by earthquakes , and begin with one powerful burst , followed rapidly by a -succession of explosions , and commonly with little extrusion of lava , although it is to be observed that a large quantity must be blown into scoriae and lost in the ejections .
Such was the eruption of Coseguina in 1835 , and of Krakatoa in 1883 .
Sometimes in these paroxysmal eruptions , there is absolutely no escape of lava , scoriae alone being projected .
A common feature in eruptions , and which indicates the termination of the crisis , is the stopping of the lava* though the gaseous explosions continue for some time with scarcely diminished energy .
There is , thus , no definite relation between the quantity of explosive gases and vapours and the quantity of lava .
If the eruption-of lava depended on the occluded vapour , it is not easy to see how there could be great flows without a large escape of vapour , or large volumes of vapour without lava .
The extrusion of lava has-been compared to the boiling over of a viscid substance in a vessel , but the cases are not analogous .
The only logical way in which it would seem possible for water to be present , is on the hypothesis of Sterry Hunt , who supposes the molten magma to be a re-melted mass of the earlier sedimentary strata* which had been originally subject to surface and meteoric action .
But in the end the preceding objections apply equally to this view .
There is the further general objection to the presence of water in the molten magma , in that were the extrusion of lava due to this-cause , the extrusion of granite and other molten rocks ( which do not-as a rule lie so deep as the lava magma ) should have been the first to feel its influence and to show -its presence .
Yet although water is-present , it is in such small quantities , that these rocks never exhibit the scoriaceous character which lava so commonly possesses .
Nor is lava always scoriaceous , as it should be if the hypothesis were correct .
Many lavas are perfectly compact and free from vapour Prof. J. Prestwick .
On the [ Apr. 16 , cavities , and so also are especially most of the great sheets of lava ( basalt ) , which welled out through fissures in late geological times .
These vast fissure eruptions , which in India and America cover thousands of square miles , and are several thousand feet thick , seem conclusive against water agency , for they have welled out evidently in a state of great fluidity , with extremely little explosive accompaniments , and often without a trace of scoriae mounds .
The general presence of non-hydrated rocks and minerals is also incompatible with the permeation of water which the assumption involves .
It has been suggested by some writers that large subterranean cavities may exist at depths in which the vapour of water is stored under high pressure , but the author shows that such natural cavities are highly improbable in any rocks , and impossible in calcareous strata .
The author proceeds to account for the presence of the enormous quantity of the vapour of water , so constantly present in eruptions , and which , in one eruption of Etna , was estimated by Fouque to be equal to about 5,000,000 gallons in the twenty-four hours .
He refers it to the surface-waters gaining access du/ ring the eruptions to the volcanic ducts either in the volcanic mountain itself , or at comparatively moderate depths beneath .
He describes how the springs and wells are influenced by volcanic outbursts .
By some observers , these effects have been referred to the influence of dry and wet seasons , but there are so many recorded instances by competent witnesses , as to leave little doubt of the fact .
This was also the decision of the inquiry by the late Professor Phillips , who asks , why is the drying up of the wells and springs an indication of coming disaster ?
The author then considers the hydro-geological condition of the underground waters .
He points to the well-known fact , that on the surface of volcanoes the whole of the rainfall disappears at once , and shows that when the mountain is at rest , the underground water must behave as in ordinary sedimentary strata .
Therefore , the water will remain stored in the body of the mountain , in the interstices of the rocks and scoriae , and in the many empty lava-tunnels and cavities .
The level of this water will rise with the height of the mountain , and he estimates that it has at times reached in Etna a height of 5,000 to \#166 ; 6,000 feet , while the permanent level of the springs at the base of the mountain seems to be at ; about 2,000 feet .
The water does not , however , form one common reservoir , but is divided into a number of independent levels by the irregular distribution of the scoriae , lava , \amp ; c. These beds are traversed by vertical dykes running radially from the crater , so that , as they generally admit of the passage of water , the dykes serve as conduits to carry the water to the central \#166 ; duct .
Little is known of the sedimentary strata on which volcanoes stand .
Agency of Water in Volcanic Eruptions .
.885 .
] n Naples , however , an artesian well found them under the volcanic aaterials in usual succession , and with several water-bearing beds , irom one of which , at a depth of 1,524 feet , a spring of water rose to he surface with a discharge of 440 gallons per minute .
" When in a state of rest , the surplus underground waters escape in the ordinary Vay by springs on the surface , or when the strata crop out in the lea , they then form submarine springs .
I During an eruption , these conditions are completely changed .
The iscending lava , as it crashes through the solid plug formed during a lengthened period of repose , comes in contact with the water lodged Around or may be in the duct , which is at once flashed into steam , and gives rise to explosions more or less violent .
These explosions rend the mountain , and fresh fissures are formed which further serve to carry the water to the duct from which they proceed ; or they may serve as channels for the sea-water to flood the crater , when , as in the case of Coseguina and Krakatoa , the volcano is near the sea-level .
As the eruption continues , the water stores immediately around the duct Ibecome exhausted , and then the water lodged in the more distant parts of the mountain rushes in to supply the void , and the explosions are violent and prolonged according to the available volume of water in the volcanic beds .
When this store is exhausted , the same process will go on with the underlying water-bearing sedimentary strata traversed by the volcanic duct .
The author gives diagrams showing the position of the water-levels before , during , and after eruption ; and describes the manner in which , if the strata surrounding the duct and below the sea-level become exhausted , the efflux of the fresh water which passed out to sea through the permeable beds , when the inland waters stood at their normal height above the sea-level , these same beds will in their turn serve as channels for the sea water to restore the lowered water-level inland .
Thus , the excurrent channels which carried the land waters into the sea-bed , and there formed , as they often do of the coasts of the Mediterranean , powerful fresh-water springs , now serve as channels for an incurrent stream of sea water , which like the fresh waters it replaces , passes into the volcanic duct .
This agrees with the fact that diatoma-ceous fresh-water remains are common in many eruptions , and marine remains in others ; also , that the products of decomposition of sea water are so abundant during and at the close of eruptions .
With the fall of the water-levels , the available supply of water becomes exhausted , or the channels of communication impeded , and this continues until , with the ceasing of the extravasation of the lava , the eruption comes to an end .
The author then explains the way in which the water may gain access to the lava in the duct , notwithstanding heat and pressure .
Prof. J. Prestwich .
On the [ Apr. 16 , This he considers to he dependent upon the difference between the statical and the kinetical pressure of the column of lava on the sides of the duct .
In the change from the one state to the other , when , the lava begins to flow , and its lateral pressure i3 lessened , the equilibrium with the surrounding elastic high pressure vapour becomes destroyed , and the vapour forces its way into the ascending lava .
As this proceeds , the heated water further from the duct , and held back by the pressure of the vapour , flashes into steam to supply its place .
If that water should be lodged in the joints of the surrounding rock , blocks of it will also be blown off , driven into , and ejected with , the ascending lava , as have been the blocks in Somma and of other volcanoes .
It is the double action thus established between the inland- and sea-waters that has probably prolonged the activity of the existing volcanoes settled in ocean centres , or along coast lines , while the great inland volcanic areas of Auvergne , the Eifel , Central Asia , \amp ; c. , have become dormant or extinct .
But if water only plays a secondary part in volcanic eruptions , to what is the motive power which causes the extravasation of the lava to be attributed ?
This involves questions connected with the solidity of the globe far more hypothetical and difficult of proof .
The author first takes into consideration the probable thickness of the earth 's crust from a geological point of view , and shows , that although the present stability of the earth 's surface renders it evident that the hypothesis of a thin crust resting on a fluid nucleus is untenable , it is equally difficult to reconcile certain geological phenomena with a globe solid throughout , or even with a very thick crust .
The geological phenomena on which he relies in proof of a crust of small thickness , are:\#151 ; 1 .
Its flexibility as exhibited down to the most recent mountain uplifts , and in the elevation of continental areas .
2 .
The increase of temperature with depth .
3 .
The volcanic phenomena of the present day , and the out-welling of the vast sheets of trappean rocks during late geological periods .
He considers that the squeezing and doubling up of the strata in mountain chains'\#151 ; as , for example , the 200 miles of originally horizontal strata in the Alps , crushed into a space of 130 miles ( and in some cases the compression is still greater)\#151 ; can only be accounted for on the assumption of a thin crust resting on a yielding substratum , for the strata have bent as only a free surface plate could to the deformation caused by lateral pressure .
If the globe were solid , or the crust of great thickness , there would have been crushing and fracture , but not corrugations .
Looking at the dimensions of these folds , it is evident also that the plate could not be of any great thickness .
This in connexion with the increase of heat with depth , and the rise of the molten lava through volcanic ducts , which , if too 885 .
] Agency of Water in Volcanic Eruptions .
ong , would allow the lava to consolidate , leads the author to believe that the outer solid crust may be less even than 20 miles thick .
That the crust does possess great mobility is shown by the fact hat since the glacial period , there have been movements of conti-aental upheaval\#151 ; to at least the extent of 1,500 to 1,800 feet\#151 ; that within more recent times they have extended to the height of 300 to 400 feet or more , and they have not yet entirely ceased .
\#166 ; With regard to the suggestion of the late Professor Hopkins that the lava lies in molten lakes at various depths beneath the surface , the author finds it difficult to conceive their isolation as separate and independent local igneous centres , in presence of the large areas occupied by modern and by recently extinct volcanoes .
But the chief objection is , that if such lakes existed they would tend to depletion , and as they could not be replenished from surrounding areas , the surface above would cave in and become depressed , whereas areas of volcanic activity are usually areas of elevation , and the great basaltic out-wellings of Colorado and Utah , instead of being accompanied by depression , form tracts raised 5,000 to 12,000 feet above the sea-level .
These slow secular upheavals and depressions , this domed elevation of great volcanic areas , the author thinks most compatible with the movement of a thin crust on a slowly yielding viscid body or layer , also of no great thickness , and wrapping round a solid nucleus .
The viscid magma is thus compressed between the two solids , and while yielding in places to compression , it , as a consequence of its narrow limits , expands in like proportion in conterminous areas .
As an example , he instances the imposing slow movements of elevation which have so long been going on along almost all the land bordering the shores of the Polar Seas , and to the areas of depression which so often further south subtend the upheaved districts .
With respect to the primary cause of these changes and of the extravasation of lava , the author sees no hypothesis which meets all the conditions of the case so well as the old hypothesis of secular refrigeration and contraction of a heated globe with a solid crust , \#151 ; not as originally held , with a fluid nucleus , but with the modifications which he has named , and with a quasi rigidity compatible with the conclusions of the eminent physicists who have investigated this part of the problem .
Although the loss of terrestrial heat by radiation is now exceedingly small , so also is the contraction needed for the quantity of lava ejected .
Cordier long since calculated that supposing five volcanic eruptions to take place annually , it would require a century to shorten the radius of the earth to the extent of 1 mm. or about inch .
The author , therefore , concludes that while the extravasation of the lava is due to the latter cause , the presence of vapour is due alone to Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
On [ Apr. 16 the surface and underground waters with which it conies into contact as it rises through the volcanic duct , the violence of the eruption being in exact proportion to the quantity which so gains access .
IY .
" On the Fibrin-yielding Constituents of the Blood Plasma .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.B. , D.Sc .
, Demonstrator of Physiology in Guy 's Hospital .
From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received March 26 , 1885 .
There is no doubt that from every variety of blood plasma a proteid body may be 'isolated , which can by appropriate means be converted into fibrin .
This body , which is known as fibrinogen , has been more especially studied by Hammarsten .
This observer has shown that ; fibrinogen possesses characters which clearly distinguish it from the !
other supposed factor in coagulation , viz. , paraglobulin , and also that ; solutions of fibrinogen will , when treated with fibrin ferment , give !
rise to fibrin .
The only objection possible to Hammarsten 's experiments is that the body which he isolated has either previously to or during the process of isolation undergone alteration .
That it is in fact not the same body which is present in the circulating blood , but that it is , so to say , a sort of nascent fibrin .
My observations bear on this point .
Peptone plasma is obtained by injecting a solution of peptone into the veins of an animal , and bleeding it directly afterwards .
The blood does not clot , and by means of the centrifuge the plasma is obtained .
The injection of peptone produces this effect by preventing the interaction of leucocytes and plasma which normally takes place in shed blood.* By repeated centrifugalising , the whole of the corpuscular elements can be removed from this plasma , and the pure plasma thus obtained can be made to clot in the most complete manner , giving rise to a large quantity of fibrin , and this without the addition of any further proteid body , so that the plasma must contain dissolved in it the mother substance or substances of fibrin .
; In a note presented to the Society a few weeks ago , I described a new constituent of the plasma which gives rise to fibrin and to other bodies concerned in coagulation .
I need not refer at length in the present paper to this new substance .
It is separable from the plasma by cooling the latter , and after its removal the plasma still yields a large quantity of fibrin , and from this plasma , by Hammersten 's method , a body can be isolated , agreeing in all particulars with Hammersten's-fibrinogen , and clotting readily with fibrin ferment .
* Wooldridge : " Sir Gerinnung des Blutes , " " Archiv fur Physiol. , " Jahrg .
1883 , p. 389 .

