General Heads for a Natural History of a Country , Great or small , imparted likewise by Mr. Boyle .
It having been already intimated ( Num.8 .
of Phil. Transact. p. 140 .
141 .
) that divers Philosophers aim , among other things , at the Composing of a good Natural History , to superstruct , in time , a Solid and Useful Philosophy upon ; and it being of no slight importance , to be furnished with pertinent Heads , for the direction of Inquirers ; that lately named Benefactour to Experimental Philosophy , has been pleased to communicate , for the ends abovesaid , the following Articles , which ( as himself did signify ) belong to one of his Essays of the unpublisht part of the usefulness of Not .
and Experimen .
Philosophy .
But first he premises , that what follows , is designed only to point at the more General heads of Inquiry , which the proposer ignores not to be Divers of them very comprehensive , in so much , that about some of the Subordinate subjects , perhaps too , not the most fertile , he has drawn up Articles of inquisition about particulars , that take up near as much room , as what is here to be delivered of this matter .
The Heads themselves follow ; The things , to be observed in such a History , may be variously ( and almost at pleasure ) divided : As , into Supraterraneous , Terrestrial , and Subterraneous ; and otherwise : but we will at present distinguish them into those things , that respect the Heavens , or concern the Air , the Water , or the Earth .
1 .
To the First sort of Particulars , belong the Longitude and Latitude of the Place ( that being of moment in reference to the observations about the Air &amp;c. ) and consequently the length of the longest and shortest days and nights , the Climate , parallels etc. what fixed stars are and what not seen there : What Constellations it is said to be subject to ?
Whereunto may be added other Astrological matters , if they be thought worth mentioning .
2 .
About the Air may be observed , its Temperature , as to the first four Qualities ( commonly so called ) and the Measures of them : its Weight , Clearness , Refractive power : its Sublety or Grossness : its abounding with , or wanting an Esurine Salt : its variations according to the seasons of the year , and the times of the day ; What duration the several kinds of Weather usually have : What Meteors it is most or least wont to breed ; and in what order they are generated ; and how long they usually last : Especially , what Winds it is subject to ; whether any of them be stated and ordinary , &amp;c. What diseases are Epidemical , that are supposed to flow from the Air : What other diseases , wherein that hath a share , the Country is subject to ; the Plague and Contagious sicknesses : What is the usual salubrity or insalubrity of the Air ; and with what Constitutions it agrees better or worse , than others .
3 .
About the Water , may be observed , the Sea , its Depth , degree of Saltness , Tides , Currents , &amp;c. Next , Rivers , their Bigness Length , Course , Inundations , Goodness , Levity ( or their Contraries ) of Waters , &amp;c. Then , Lakes , Ponds , Springs , and especially Mineral waters , their Kinds , Qualities , Virtues , and how examined .
To the Waters belong also Fishes , what kinds of them ( whether Salt or Fresh-water fish ) are to be found in the Country ; their Store , Bigness , Goodness , Seasons , Haunts , Peculiarities of any kind , and the ways of taking them , especially those that are not purely Mechanical .
4 .
In the Earth , may be observed , 1 .
It self .
2 .
Its Inhabitants , and its Productions , and these External , and Internal .
First , in the Earth it self , may be observed , its dimensions , scituation , East , West , North , and South : its Figure , its Plains , and Valleys , and their Extents its Hills and Mountains , and the height of the tallest , both in reference to the neighbouring Valleys or Plains , and in reference to the Level of the Sea : As also , whether the Mountains lye scattered , or in ridges , and whether those run North and South , or East and West , &amp;c. What Promontories , fiery or smoaking Hills , &amp;c. the Country has , or hath not : Whether the Country be coherent , or much broken into Ilands .
What the Magnetical Declination is in several places , and the Variations of that Declination in the same place ( and , if either of those be very considerable , then , what circumstances may assist one to guess at the Reason as Subterraneal fires , the Vicinity of Iron-mines , &amp;c. ) what the Nature of the Soil is , whether Clays , Sandy , &amp;c. or good Mould ; and what Grains , Fruits , and other Vegetables , do the most naturally agree with it : As also , by what particular Arts and Industries the Inhabitants improve the Advantages , and remedy the Inconveniences of their Soil : What hidden qualities the Soil may have ( as that of Ireland , against Venomous Beasts , &amp;c. ) Secondly , above the ignobler Productions of the Earth , there must be a careful account given of the Inhabitants themselves , both Natives and Strangers , that have been long settled there : And in particular , their Stature , Shape , Colour , Features , Strength , Agility , Beauty ( or the want of it ) Complexions , Hair , Diet , Inclinations , and Customs that seem not due to Education .
As to their Women ( besides the other things ) may be observed their Fruitfulness or Barrenness ; their hard or easy Labour , &amp;c. And both in Women and Men must be taken notice of what diseases they are subject to , and in these whether there be any symptom , or any other Circumstance , that is unusual and remarkable .
As to the External Productions of the Earth , the Inquiries may be such as these : What Grasses , Grains , Herbs , ( Garden and Wild ) Flowers , Fruit-trees , Timber-trees ( especially any Trees , whose wood is considerable ) Coppices , Groves , Woods , Forests , &amp;c. the Country has or wants : What peculiarities are observable in any of them : What Soils they most like or dislike ; and with what Culture they thrive best .
What Animals the Country has or wants , both as to wild Beasts , Hawks , and other Birds of Prey ; and as to Poultrey , and Cattle of all sorts , and particularly , whether it have any Animals , that are not common , or any thing , that is peculiar in those , that are so .
The Internal Productions or Concealments of the Earth are here understood to be , the riches that lie hid under the Ground , and are not already referred to other Inquiries .
Among these Subterraneal observations may be taken notice of , what sorts of Minerals of any kind they want , as well as what they have ; Then , what Quarries the Country affords , and the particular conditions both of the Quarries and the Stones : As also , how the Beds of Stone lye , in reference to North and South , &amp;c. What Clays and Earths it affords , as Tobacco-pipeclay , Marles , Fullers-earths , Earths for Potters wares , Bolus 's and other medicated Earths : What other Minerals it yields , as Coals , Salt-Mines , or Salt-springs , Allom , Vitrial , Sulphur , &amp;c. What Metals the Country yields , and a description of the Mines , their number , scituation , depth , signs , waters , damps , quantities of ore , goodness of ore , extraneous things and ways of reducing their ores into Metals , &amp;c. To these General Articles of inquiries ( saith their Proposer ) should be added ; I Inquiries about Traditions concerning all particular things , relating to that Country , as either peculiar to it , or at least , uncommon elsewhere .
2 Inquiries , that require Learning or Skill in the Answerer : to which should be subjoyned Proposals of ways , to enable men to give Answers to these more difficult inquiries .
Thus far our Author , who , as he has been pleased to impart these General ( but yet very Comprehensive and greatly Directive ) Articles ; so , it is hoped from his own late intimation , that he will shortly enlarge them with Particular and Subordinate ones .
These , in the mean time , were thought fit to be published , that the Inquisitive and Curious , might , by such an Assistance , be invited not to delay their searches of matters , that are so highly conducive to the improvement of True Philosophy , and the welfare of Mankind .

