II .
" On the part which the Silicates of the Alkalies may play in the Metamorphism of Rocks .
" By T. STERRY HUNT , Esq. , of the Geological Survey of Canada .
Communicated by THOMAs GRAHAM , Esq. , F.R.S. , Master of the Mint .
Received March 30 , 1857 .
In my last communication to the Royal Society on the Metamorphic Silurian Strata of Canada , I endeavoured to show , from the results of analyses of the altered and unaltered rocks , that it is the reaction between the siliceous matters and the carbonates of lime , magnesia , and iron of the sedimentary deposits , which has given rise to the serpentines , talcs , pyroxenites , chlorites , and garnet rocks of the formation .
I then cited the observation of Bischof that silica , even in the form of pulverised quartz , slowly decomposes these carbonates at a temperature of 212 ?
F. , with evolution of carbonic acid ; the same author mentions that a solution of carbonate of soda has the power of dissolving quartz under similar conditions* .
Desiring to verify these observations , I have since made the following experiments .
Colourless crystalline quartz was ignited , finely pulverised , and then boiled for an hour with a solution of its weight of perfectly pure carbonate of soda ; the amount of silica thus dissolved was 1*5 per cent. of the quartz , but on repeating the treatment of the same quartz with a second portion of the carbonate , only -35 per cent. was dissolved .
The object of this process was to remove any soluble silica , and the quartz thus purified was employed for the following experiments , which were performed in a vessel of platinum .
I. 1000 parts of quartz and 200 of carbonate of soda were boiled with water for ten hours , and the mixture was several times evaporated to dryness , and exposed for a few minutes to a temperature of about 300 ?
F. The amount of silica taken into solution was 12 parts .
II .
A hydro-carbonate of magnesia was prepared by mingling boiling solutions of sulphate of magnesia and carbonate of potash , the latter in excess ; the precipitate was washed by boiling with successive portions of water .
1000 parts of quartz were mixed with about as much of this magnesian carbonate and boiled as above for ten hours .
An excess of hydrochloric acid was then added , the whole evaporated to dryness , and the magnesian salt washed out with dilute acid .
The residue was then boiled for a few minutes with carbonate of soda , and gave 33 parts of soluble silica .
III .
A mixture of 1000 parts of quartz , 200 of carbonate of soda with water , and an excess of carbonate of magnesia was boiled for ten hours , and the residue , treated as in the last experiment , gave 148 parts of soluble silica .
The alkaline liquid contained a little magnesia but no silica in solution .
That the soluble silica was really combined with magnesia was shown by boiling the insoluble mixture with sal-ammoniac , which , dissolving the carbonate , left a large amount of magnesia with the silica .
This silicate was readily decomposed by hydrochloric acid , the greater part of the silica separating in a pulverulent form .
The third experiment was suggested by some observations on the reactions of silicate of soda with earthy carbonates .
Kuhlmann has remarked the power of carbonate of lime to abstract the silica from a boiling solution of soluble glass* , and it is known that alumina exerts a similar action .
I have found that when artificial carbonate of magnesia in excess is boiled with a solution of silicate of soda , the latter is completely decomposed with the formation of carbonate of soda , and a silicate of magnesia which gelatinizes with acids ; and I have long since described this reaction in the evaporation of alkaline mineral waters* .
This mutual decomposition of carbonate of magnesia and silicate of soda , conjoined with the power of carbonate of soda to dissolve silica , leads to a curious result .
If we boil for some hours a mixture of ignited silica , obtained from the decomposition of a silicate by an acid ( and consequently readily soluble in an alkaline carbonate ) , with a small portion of carbonate of soda and an excess of hydrocarbonate of magnesia , we obtain a dense powder which contains all the silica united with magnesia , and may be boiled with carbonate of soda and sal-ammoniac without decomposition .
It is obvious from the above experiments that similar results may be obtained with quartz , although the process is much slower ; it would doubtless be accelerated under pressure at a somewhat elevated temperature , which would enhance the solvent power of the alkaline carbonate .
Silicates of potash and soda are everywhere present in sedimentary rocks , where decomposing felspathic materials are seldom wanting , and these salts in the presence of a mixture of quartz and earthy carbonates , aided by a gentle heat , will serve to effect a union of the quartz with the earthy bases , eliminating carbonic acid .
A small amount of alkali may thus , like a leaven , continue its operation indefinitely and change the character of a great mass of sedimentary rock .
Such a process is not only a possible but a necessary result under the circumstances supposed , and we cannot , I think , doubt that alkaline silicates play a very important part in the metamorphism of sedimentary rocks , which are composed for the most part of earthy carbonates , with siliceous , aluminous , and felspathic materialst .
The direct action between the carbonates and silica must necessarily be limited by their mutual insolubility , and by the protecting influence of the first-formed portions of earthy silicate ; but with the solvent action of a small portion of alkali which is changed from silicate to carbonate , and then back again to silicate , the only limit to the process would be the satisfying of the mutual affinities of the silica and the basic oxyds present ,

