350 Mr. E. S. Goodrich .
When there are two or three synangia they may still be separate , but they are crowded together , and in some cases may be more or less fused .
Some cases at least of irregular quinquelocular synangia are due to the fusion of two original synangia , owing doubtless , to the close proximity of their primordia .
But if originally distinct synangia may become fused in their development , we have less difficulty in understanding how the three loculi of the synangium may be due to the fusion of three primitively separate sporangia .
The most important inference from this comparison is that the repeated dichotomy of the sporophylls of the family Psiloteae is an ancient feature .
A real affinity with the Sphenophyllales is thereby rendered more probable .
In determining the affinities of the Phanerogams it is the custom to attach more importance to the characters of the flowers than to the vegetative characters , which are subject to many adaptive modifications .
Bower has recently " urged* the importance of the characters of the reproductive organs , and especially of the sporangia , in determining the affinities of the genera of Ferns .
If we allow that the characters of the sporophylls and sporangia are entitled to more weight than vegetative characters in deciding the affinities of the Psiloteae , the family must be placed in the Sphenophyllales rather than in the Lycopodiales .
The whorled arrangement of the leaves of the typical family Sphenophylleae is the chief objection to this , but phyllotaxis is often a very variable character , and notably so in the Psiloteae , even though it must be admitted that the arrangement in whorls appears to have been a very constant feature in the Sphenophylleae .
It would seem , therefore , that although the character of the sporophylls , and especially the sporangiophores , justifies our including the Psiloteae in the class Sphenophyllales , they yet form a family rather remote from the Sphenophylleae .
" On the Excretory Organs of Amphioxus .
" By Edwin S. Goodeigh , M.A. , Fellow of Merton College , Oxford .
Communicated by E , Bay Lankester , F.E.S. Beceived January 7 , \#151 ; Bead January 23 , 1902 .
Some years ago , in 1890 , Weiss and Boveri discovered excretory tubules in the pharyngeal region of Amphioxus .
f Soon after Boveri * ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , yoI .
192 , 1900 , p. 30 .
t Weiss , E. E. , " Excretory Tubules in Amphioxus lanceolatus , " ' Quart .
Jour* Micr .
Sci. , * yol .
31 , 1890 ; Boveri , Th. , " Ueber die Niere des AInphioxus , , , ' Sitz** Ber .
d. G-es .
f. Morph .
u. Phys. in Munclien/ Jahrg .
6 , 1890 .
On the Excretory Organs 351 published a detailed description and figures of these segmental kidneys.* According to Boveri , each organ consists of a narrow ciliated tubule opening on the one hand into the atrium at the top of a secondary gill-bar , and on the other hand into the dorsal coelom by one or more funnels .
Groups of peculiar cells , called " fadenzellen , " are spread round each funnel , attached to the coelomic wall .
These cells send each a long fine process passing towards the lip of the funnel across its opening .
During a visit to Naples this winter , I determined to re-examine these structures in Amphioxus , with a view to comparing them with the nephridia of certain Polychsete worms ; and I am now able to state that the so-called " fadenzellen " are in reality typical solenocytes , such as I have described in the Glyceridse , Phyllodocidae , Alciopidse , and J^ephthyidse.f Hitherto the excretory cells , named solenocytes , have been known to occur only at the inner extremity of nephridia , which end blindly , having no direct communication with the coelom .
Each solenocyte consists of a cell-body and nucleus situated at the distal free extremity of a delicate tube .
The proximal end of the tube pierces the wall of the nephridial canal , and opens into its lumen .
A single long flagellum , arising from the cell , works in the tube and projects into the canal .
Now I find that the excretory organ of an adult Amphioxus is formed of a ciliated tubule having an external but no internal opening .
It is more or less branched , and the branches bear innumerable solenocytes with narrow thread-like tubes of remarkable length .
At the distal end of each tube is situated the cell-body and nucleus , and inside it vibrates a flagellum which passes into the lumen of the excretory canal .
It may be concluded from these observations that , in their function I segmental arrangement , and detailed histological structure , the excre-r tory organs of Amphioxus are essentially identical with the nephridia of certain Polychsete worms .
* Boveri , fh .
, " Die Nierencanalchen des Amphioxus , " ' Zool. Jahrb .
, ' vol. 5 , 1892 .
f Goodrich , E. S. , " On the Nephridia of the Polychseta , " 'Quart .
Jour .
Micr .
Sci. , ' Part 1 , vol. 40 , 1897 ; Part 2 , vol. 41 , 1898 ; Part 3 , vol. 43 , 1900 .

