78 Proceedings and List of Papers read .
The optical properties are next considered , and the amount of refraction produced by free atoms and molecules calculated .
' The calculations on the free atoms are of interest , inasmuch as it is shown that they accelerate the velocity with which waves are transmitted .
With regard to the molecules , it is shown that the optical control may be regarded as due to w2 , the mean value of o/ 2 for the molecules , where w is the angular velocity of rotation of the two atoms about their common C.G. Dispersion is also accounted for , and depends essentially on the distribution law of velocities .
The effects of radiation from the molecules are also considered in the course of the work .
The rate of rotation of the plane of polarisation in a magnetic field is also calculated , and the sign of the rotation shown to depend on which atom has the larger mass .
If the masses are equal no rotation is produced .
The work borders in some ways with Professor W. Voigt 's investigations .
The formulae obtained are applied to the case of oxygen to obtain estimates of e/ m1 and e/ m-2 , e being the charge and ru\ and the masses of the two atoms .
An estimate of to , and hence of 2r0 , the sum of the radii of the two atoms , is also obtained .
The value of ejm\ agrees closely numerically with this ratio obtained from electrolytic considerations , while the .
value of e/ m2agrees closely with the value obtained from considerations of the Zeeman effect .
February 21 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , followed by The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " An Attempt to Estimate the Vitality of Seeds by an Electrical Method .
" By Dr. A. D. Waller , F.R.S. II .
" On a New Manometer , and on the Law of the Pressure of Gases between 1*5 and O'Ol Millimetres of Mercury .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. III .
11 An Investigation of the Spectra of I lames resulting from Operations in the Opeiishearth and ' Basic Bessemer Processes .
" By Professor W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , and Hugh Ram age .
An Attempt to Estimate the Vitality of Seeds .
IV .
" The Mineral Constituents of Dust and Soot from various Sources .
" By Professor W. N. Hartley , F.R.S. , and Hugh Ramage .
Y. " Notes on the Spark Spectra of Silicon as rendered by Silicates .
" By Professor W. N. Hartley , F.K.S. VL " On the Conductivity of Gases under the Becquerel Rays .
" By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. " An Attempt to Estimate the Vitality of Seeds by an Electrical Method .
" By Augustus D. Waller , M.D. , F.R.S. Received January 28 , \#151 ; Read February 21,1901 .
The present observations form part of an extensive series of experiments by which I am engaged in verifying whether or no " blaze currents " * may be utilised as a sign and measure of vitality .
An inquiry of this scope necessitates superficial examination of many varieties of animal and vegetable matter , and the closer study of certain favourable test-cases .
I have selected as such a test-case , the " vitality " of seeds , and have chosen for my purpose beans ( Phaseoluswhich are anatomically convenient and .
practically easy to obtain of known age .
But before entering upon the results in this particular test-case , I think it advisable to preface those results by a brief indication of the principle involved in all such experiments .
The method of investigation is similar to that adopted in the case of the frog 's eyeball , * the complications of the principle and a tentative explanation of such complications is reserved for future discussion in a more comprehensive memoir .
By " blaze current " ( the term which I was led to adopt by the study of retinal effects ) I mean to denote the galvanometrical token of an explosive change locally excited in living matter .
An unequivocal blaze current electrically excited is in the same direction as the exciting current , i.e. , it cannot be a polarisation counter-current .
( An equivocal blaze current , in the contrary direction to the exciting current , i.e. , not at first sight distinguishable from a polarisation counter-effect , also exists , but is not taken into consideration in this communication .
) * A. D. W.\#151 ; " On the 'Blaze Currents ' of the Frog 's Eyeball , " 'Roy .
Soc Proc. , ' vol. 67 , p. 439 , and ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1901 .
Although the theoretical explanation of these currents is not now in question , it may here be remarked that the unequivocal or lioinodrome blaze current is probably of local post-anodic origin ( the previously anodic spot being now strongly electro-positive to the previously kathodic spot ) , while the equivocal or lietero-drome blaze current is probably of local post-kathodic origin ( the previously kathodic spot being now strongly electro-positive to the previously anodic spot ) .

