364 Hon. R J. Strutt .
same figure magnified five times , O ' , A ' , S'3 , corresponding to 0 , A , S3 .
It is curious to note that a particle takes much longer to make one revolution round 0 than if it circulated directly with its special velocity v. When close in the loops become almost close circles .
For instance , for a distance about 0-09a , each loop is displaced about 1 minute from the preceding one , and its radius is 0*0016a .
It would take 192 times as long .
When very close in it would appear almost stationary , with a sort of ssecular change of position .
Of the particles from outside none can penetrate nearer to 0 than ( f2 \#151 ; 1 ) a. If we take the case of a single magneton M = 1*6 x 10"21 .
For a / 3-particle ejm = 1*73 x 107 and v = 1010 about .
For an a-particle we may take efmv about 2*5 x 10"6 .
Consequently a = 1*6 x 10"12 for a / 3-particle , a = 0*6 x 13"13 for an a-particle .
The nearest approach is consequently of the orders 6 x 10"13 and 2 x 10"14 for penetrating / 3- and a-rays respectively .
When the electrostatic action is taken into account the effect on the a-particle will be to make this minimum distance very much larger , not only on account of the direct action , but .
because the diminution of velocity caused by it will also render it more subservient to the magnetic field .
Luminous Vapours Distilled from the Arc , with Applications to the Study of Spectrum Series and their Origin.\#151 ; I. By the Hon. B. J. Stkutt , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
' ( Received April 28 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1914 .
) .
S 1 .
Introduction .
In a paper entitled " Duration of Luminosity of Electric Discharge in Gases and Vapours/ 5* reference was made to a known phenomenon shown by the mercury arc m xacuo : when mercury is allowed to distil away from a mercury lamp into a lateral tube sealed on to it , the rapidly moving vapour carries its luminosity for a long distance out of the electric field .
It was shown how effects not essentially different might be obtained with mercury , and other metals also , using not the arc , but the leyden jar spark between poles of the metal ; but this method , owing to * 'Roy .
Soc. Soc./ A , vol. 88 , p. 110 ( 1913 ) .
Luminous Vapours Distilled from the Arc. the intermittence of the sparks and the small scale of the effects , is far less satisfactory than the use of the arc .
At the time of writing the paper cited , I thought that it would be very difficult to extend the use of the arc to metals less volatile than mercury , but the problem has proved more tractable than was expected S 2 .
Method of Experimenting\#151 ; Apparatus used .
The vessel in which the arc is confined will be called , for convenience , a lamp , though it is not used directly as a source of light .
The lamp , then , containing the metal under investigation , stands in a large exhausted receiver a ( fig. 1 ) .
It consists of a short length of rough quartz tubing* b , which may conveniently be from 5 to 10 cm .
long and 8 to 20 mm. diameter .
This is covered with asbestos paper , for opacity , ^nd closed at the bottom by an asbestos stopper c. The latter is held Fig. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
* The cheap kind made by the Thermal Syndicate , Newcastle .
'VOL .
XO.\#151 ; A. 2 D Hon. R. J. Strutt .
down by an iron stud and nut with washer .
The stud passes out through a rubber cork d which insulates it from the base plate ee .
On the nut , and in electrical contact with it , is placed a piece of the metal under investigation\#151 ; a rough lump , or , preferably , a short length of rod , of such size as to fit the quartz tube .
In any case enough metal should be used to form a layer 1 cm .
deep over the top of the nut.* In experiments with potassium and sodium a hollow iron cup replaces the nut .
This cup contains the alkali metal , and protects the quartz and asbestos from contact with it .
The pool of metal / at the bottom of the lamp , melted by the heat of the arc , forms the cathode .
In some experiments the lamp is closed at the top by an iron diaphragm g , which serves as anode , and which is pierced with a central hole from which the luminous vapour issues into the space above ; g is held down by the iron cap h fitted tight on to the quartz tube with asbestos paper .
In other experiments a cylindrical iron plug with a hole along the axis is used as anode .
It fits close into the tube ( fig. 2 ) , and becomes hot enough in use to prevent any condensation of metal in the channel .
In either case contact is made with the anode by means of a metal rod/ passing through a rubber cork inserted in a tubulure in the air pump plate .
The wire ligature k facilitates dismounting .
An iron rod l is provided which can be inserted into the lamp through the aperture at the top , making temporary contact between cathode and anode .
On withdrawing it the arc is struck ; l can be manipulated from outside by means of an iron rod passing out through a barometric column .
After the arc has been struck l can be turned aside out of the way .
In the sectional diagram ( fig. 1 ) only two apertures through the base plate are shown , exclusive of that in the middle .
In all , however , there are six , equally spaced on a circle concentric with the plate .
Of the remaining four , the first carries a brass tube of 2 cm .
diameter for connection to the Gaede molecular pump , which maintains a cathode ray vacuum in the apparatus . !
The second carries a discharge tube , with a stopcock opening to the air .
The state of the vacuum in the bell jar can be judged at any time by the appearance of an induction coil discharge in this tube .
The third and fourth c\amp ; rry vertical metal pillars , passing in through rubber * In some experiments with magnesium a charge of as much as 7 grm. of the metal has been distilled away .
+ A short rubber connection is necessary to give flexibility , and easily allows of a high enough exhaustion .
A spiral spring inside keeps it from collapse .
Luminous Vapours Distilled from the Arc. stoppers , with ebonite bushes to support and insulate them in the tubulures passing through the plate .
These serve to carry the supplementary electrodes to be mentioned later , for experimenting on the properties of the glow in an electric field .
In use , the hell jar very soon becomes covered inside with an opaque deposit of volatilised metal , sometimes thick enough to peel off in a coherent film .
This , of course , prevents observation of what is going on inside .
The difficulty has been almost completely overcome by placing a metal tube in the bell jar , pointing at the lamp with one end close up against the glass .
In this way a window corresponding to the cross section of the tube is preserved clear , the tube itself taking the deposit .
The tube used is of rectangular section , 5x1 cm .
, and 5 cm .
long .
The top of the lamp , and the space some centimetres above it , is open to observation through the window .
The current usually passed is from 4 to 10 amperes .
An electro-magnet in the lamp circuit to provide inductance overcomes , to a great extent , the tendency of the arc to go out .
This device has been used by Lord Eayleigh .
In these experiments it was necessary to remove the bell jar , for cleaning it and for recharging the lamp with metal , two or three times in a day 's work , and many scores of times in all .
This has made worth while an improvement in the method of cementing it .
Ordinary soft red wax is used , but it is squeezed mechanically into a thread or wire 2 mm. in diameter , which is laid round the flange of the bell-jar .
The latter is placed on the plate without beat , and the air-pump started .
The atmospheric pressure forces the bell-jar down and flattens out the wax between it and the plate , making a perfect joint .
The arrangement for making the wax thread consists simply of a stopped brass tube , a ( fig. 3 ) , with a brass plunger , b , fitting into it .
It is placed endwise in a large d Fig. 3 .
parallel vice , which serves to force in the plunger .
The wax thread , d , then exudes through a small side hole , c , of appropriate size , near the closed end of the cylinder .
Whether the anode should take the form of a perforated diaphragm or a perforated plug depends on circumstances .
The latter has the advantage in point of durability , but when the metal to be volatilised is one which gives a luminous jet with difficulty , the diaphragm form must be used , as allowing the vapour to issue in the minimum time .
An objection to it is that in some cases there is a tendency for a discharge to pass from the 2 d 2 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
outside face of the anode through the aperture and down to the cathode .
This is , of course , to be avoided , as the object is to examine the luminous vapour outside the region of discharge .
A sheet of mica with a hole corresponding to that in the diaphragm can be placed over it , and successfully cures the trouble .
As might be expected , the shape of the issuing jet of luminous vapour depends on what kind of hole it comes out from .
With a hole in a thin diaphragm , the exuded vapour expands into a bulbous form ( a , fig. 4 ) ; with the plug form of anode , which has a long narrow channel , the shape of the luminous jet is more like that of an ordinary blowpipe flame ( b , fig. 4 ) .
S 3 .
Experiments with the Various Metals .
The first condition necessary for getting a jet of luminous vapour issuing from the lamp is to have a free evaporation of the cathode metal .
Accordingly it is only with the more volatile metals that the result has been achieved .
The list is as follows , roughly in order of volatility\#151 ; mercury , arsenic , potassium , cadmium , sodium , zinc , magnesium , calcium , antimony , thallium , bismuth , lead , silver , copper .
Comparative volatility of the metal is the chief but not the only condition which determines whether the distilled glow will be extensive , and easily maintained .
Thus mercury , cadmium , zinc , and magnesium give magnificent effects without difficulty under almost any conditions .
Using a plug anode , 2'5 cm .
long , perforated with a 4 mm. hole , a bright jet 7 or 8 inches high is easily obtained .
With a long channel like this it is necessary to pass rather large currents , causing copious distillation .
Thick deposits of finely divided metal may be found on the bell jar , and in the case of magnesium these are sometimes spontaneously inflammable .
It is important to let the bell jar get quite cold before admitting air .
With calcium a very brilliant crimson jet is sometimes seen for a moment , but it has not been found possible so far to get it under control .
A skin apparently forms on the surface of the metal and stops evaporation .
It is probably produced by the action of hot calcium on the quartz tube .
Luminous Vapours Distilled from the Arc. Potassium and sodium give brilliant effects , but are often troublesome , sodium especially .
The molten alkali metal froths very badly in the exhausted vessel with evolution of hydrogen , and at times will rise to the anode and well out through the hole .
The lamp is then usually short-circuited by an adherent film of metal inside , and has to be dismounted .
This trouble makes it necessary to limit the quantity of metal put in .
With potassium one of the commercial balls of metal is quite enough , and with sodium rather less is advisable .
Another trouble caused by the frothing is that it frequently makes the arc go out .
Self-induction in the circuit is specially desirable in these cases .
If a long channel is used instead of a diaphragm for the vapour to come out by , it should not be less than 6 mm. diameter for these metals .
Arsenic and antimony are not deficient in volatility , but the jet of vapour from them does not remain visibly luminous far from the orifice , and the glow is not nearly so striking as in the previous cases .
A thin diaphragm must be used with , say , a 3 mm. hole .
The remaining metals on the list , thallium , bismuth , lead , silver , and copper , are not volatile enough for free distillation unless very hot .
In spite of this thallium gave a brilliant and extensive green glow , owing to the great brilliance of the green line , which was the only one visible , or at all events easily visible , in its spectrum .
But the other metals have so far given comparatively poor effects .
Thin iron anode diaphragms were used so as not to obstruct the issuing vapour , but these are not durable enough to stand very heavy currents , such as would freely evaporate these metals .
Anode diaphragms of platinum or tungsten might do better .
Something may be said upon the effect of air pressure on the phenomena .
This is best observed when the lamp has been burning some time , so that a steady temperature has been reached , and free.ebullition is in progress.* If the metal is one of the more volatile ones , air may be admitted up to a pressure of several millimetres without checking ebullition and causing the luminous jet to disappear .
The jet contracts without much change of shape , and becomes intrinsically brighter , but the colour does not usually change .
The less volatile metals cannot easily be made hot enough to give a good vapour pressure , thus the jet is only exuded in a high vacuum .
An exception to the rule that air pressure does not affect the colour is found in the case of magnesium .
In this instance the jet becomes less blue and more green ( increased intensity of the triplet b ) with increasing air * For convenience I include in this term sublimation , at temperatures where the equilibrium vapour pressure of the metal exceeds the air pressure in the bell jar .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
pressure .
The same effect is equally observed when hydrogen is substituted for air , which seems to exclude the idea that it is due to any chemical interaction of magnesium vapour and air .
In the case of many metals there are no marked changes of colour in the jet of glowing vapour as it gets further from the orifice .
For instance , in mercury or cadmium such differences are inconspicuous .
There are many lines in the spectrum of the glow , and most of these , at all events , decay at the same rate .
In other cases there are marked changes .
With sodium , for instance , the outer mantle of the jet is yellow , showing little but the D lines ( principal series ) .
Nearer to the orifice , however , the colour is green , and the lines of the two subordinate series ( sharp and diffuse ) are comparable in intensity with the D lines.* It appears , therefore , that the lines of the subordinate series die out sooner than the D lines .
Potassium gives a very bright green inner cone , showing the lines of the two subordinate series .
The corresponding lines of the sharp and diffuse series are , as is known , so close together as to give , in a pocket spectroscope , the appearance of a single series , and as no extraneous lines appear , the series relation is probably more striking to the eye in this spectrum than in any bright line spectrum hitherto produced .
Nine or ten ( complex ) lines can easily be seen and photographed .
Beyond the end of the series a continuous spectrum is seen .
Prof. Fowler has pointed out to me that something similar is observed in absorption in the hydrogen stars .
Outside the green inner cone shown by potassium vapour there is a faint mantle of a violet colour .
By analogy with sodium it might be expected that this would show the lines of the principal series .
The only representatives of this series in the visual region are in the extreme red and extreme violet and difficult to see .
I have not been able to detect them in the spectrum of either the green cone or the violet mantle , though presumably they are there .
So far as could be seen , the light of the mantle consists chiefly of the continuous spectrum which has been mentioned as occurring beyond the limit of the subordinate series .
It seems , therefore , that this continuous spectrum lasts for a longer time than the series lines .
Zinc is another metal which shows a marked difference in duration between different constituents of the spectrum .
Near the orifice the spectrum is dominated by the green triplet at 4811 .
Further out the light becomes * In a preliminary communication to 4 Nature,5 vol. 93 , p. 32 , it was stated that a third and inner zone of all was again yellow , with D lines dominant .
Further observation , under better conditions , has shown that this was an illusion , produced apparently by the greater brightness near the orifice .
Luminous Vapours Distilled from the Arc. reddish with the line \6363 predominant .
The contrast between the inner cone and outer mantle is conspicuous in any case , but becomes more spectacular if the zinc vapour has to force its way out against 1 or 2 mm. of air pressure .
The luminous jet is then smaller , and the eye does not have to travel so far from the green to the red region .
Moreover the intrinsic brightness is increased .
The same device is useful in observing the rather faint violet mantle of the potassium glow already described .
Magnesium is a fourth case where colour differences are seen .
In the inner part of the jet , the predominant colour is green , and is due to the b triplet group .
The outer part of the jet is dominated by the blue line at \4571 characteristic of the flame of burning magnesium .
In some instances the latter line appears alone in the outer part of the jet , which is then pure blue ; but this result has only been obtained occasionally , under conditions not well understood .
The apparent caprice observed in this case may be connected with the formation of a skin on the cathode surface as with calcium .
As already remarked , air pressure in the bell jar makes the outer part of the magnesium glow green , as the core is in any case .
In all such cases when one spectrum line outlasts another , the lines of different duration do not belong to the same spectrum series .
Cases exist , however , where lines belonging to different series appear to have the same duration .
For instance , the yellow lines of mercury have never been seen to die out either sooner or later than the green line .
Earlier investigations by S. E. Milner* and by myselff have shown that lines characteristic of the spark do not last so long as arc lines .
But the observation that different series of arc lines may have different durations is new .
In most of the cases above referred to , and in most others , the spectrum of the distilled glow is exclusively a line spectrum .
The following exceptions have been noted:\#151 ; Magnesium shows , under favourable conditions , the band spectrum of " magnesium hydride , " and this may even rival the line spectrum in aggregate intensity .
The hydrogen believed to be necessary for its production is presumably occluded in the metal .
Arsenic gives a glow of slaty grey colour , which consists spectroscopically of broad and regular bands , extending with nearly uniform intensity over the whole visual region .
Antimony gives a buff-coloured glow ; the spectrum is of the same general * 4 Phil. Trans.,5 A , vol. 209 , p. 77 ( 1909 ) .
t 4 Boy .
Soc. Proc.,5 A , vol. 88 , p. 110 ( 1913 ) .
372 Luminous Vapours Distilled from the Arc. character as with arsenic , but the bands are much narrower and more numerous .
Finally , the continuous spectrum beyond the limit of the subordinate series in the alkali metals should be added to complete the list .
S 4 .
Summary and Conclusion .
( 1 ) It is known that mercury vapour distilled away from the arc in vacuo remains luminous for some distance away from the region of discharge .
It is now shown how to observe brilliant effects of the same kind from a large number of other metals .
( 2 ) As the luminous vapour moves away from the region of discharge , the rate at which different constituents in the spectrum die out is not always the same .
Thus , for instance , both the subordinate series of lines in the sodium spectrum die out at the same rate , but the principal series dies out more slowly .
The lines belonging to any given series always die out at the same rate , but another series may or may not die out at the same rate as the first .
( 3 ) In some cases the glowing vapour distilled from the arc shows a band spectrum .
The alkali metals show a continuous band beyond the limit of the subordinate series like that seen in absorption in the hydrogen stars .
The present instalment of this investigation deals only with experimental methods of observing the luminous jets of metallic vapour distilled from the arc and their more obvious features .
In the next I hope to discuss the effect of an electric field in quenching the luminosity , and the inferences which can be drawn from the observations generally as to the origin of the radiation and its various spectroscopic constituents .

