I. " On the Effect of Temperature on the Secretion of Urea , as observed on a Voyage to China , and at Hong Kong .
" By EMIL BECHER , M.D. , Assistant-Surgeon , Army Medical Staff .
Communicated by Dr. EDMUND A. PARKS .
Received January 20 , 1863 .
( Abstract .
) With a view to extend our knowledge of the physiological effects of temperature , with especial regard to the influence of tropical heat on the healthy system , Dr. Becher , with the liberal assistance of the Director-General , Army Medical Department , took advantage of a voyage to China ( round the Cape of Good Hope ) in 1857 , and a short residence at Hong Kong , in order to determine on himself the influence of the extreme variations of temperature incidental to that voyage , on the quantity of urine , urea , and chloride of sodium excreted during each twenty-four hours .
During a period of 163 days ( 100 days at sea , 63 days at Hong Kong during the change of monsoon ) , Dr. Becher collected the daily quantity of urine , and determined the amount of urea and NaCl by the volumetric method ( solutions of nitrate of mercury ) , and registered meteorological observations as accurately as circumstances would permit , observing all the time as constant a mode of living ( with regard to food , exercise , &amp;c. ) as was practicable without undue restriction .
The whole of the observations , divided into the two periods indicated , are fully detailed in Tables , and graphically represented in Diagrams .
The results show a most remarkable relation between air-temperature and daily quantity of urea and NaCl , viz. a constant increase with the rising of temperature from 50 ?
-70 ?
, and an equally constant falling off with the further rise of temperature from 70 ?
-90 ? .
The physiological limit of the tropical zone , as marked by the sudden decrease in the quantity of urinary water , is constantly fixed at 76 ? .
Appended is an extract from a manuscript of Dr. Forbes Watson , containing a series of observations on the daily quantity of urine and the amount of solids therein excreted by a number of healthy soldiers in various temperatures during a voyage to India in 1850 .
These observations were made by Dr. Forbes Watson , who most kindly consented to their being added here , as far as they serve to illustrate the influence of temperature under otherwise constant conditions .
They are tabulated and graphically represented as much as possible on the same plan as those of Dr. Becher , and in their results show the most satisfactory harmony with the latter .

