]\gt ; Rate of of a-Pc rticles from its By J. N. BROtVN , ( Communicated by Prof. the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. Received May 24 , \mdash ; Read , 1910 .
) The ob , of this investigation was to find directly how many -particles are emitted per second per granlme of uranium in eqnilibrium with all its products .
The number can be calculated from the rate of emission of the particles from radium , determined by Rutherford , but no direct experiment has previously been performed with anium as it occurs in Nature .
To estimate the number of -particles emitted , their well-known property of producing scintillations when they strike a zinc sulphide screen ( each -particle producing one scintillation ) was employed .
The scintillations were observed through a microscope provided with a special objective .
The uranium ore employed was pitchblende .
This , to its density and the consequent small distance of penetration of into it , had to be prepared in thin layers in order that all the pitchblende used might be effective .
The films of pitchblende used were made as follows:\mdash ; The mineral was first converted into a fine powder by grinding it up with chloroform in an.agate mortar .
A small quantity of the powdered end was then suspended in chloroform in a dish , at the bottom of which was placed a copper disc of known .
As the chloroform cval)orated the pitchblende was deposited on the copper disc in a of suitable thickness .
The copper disc with the film of pitchblende on it was first and then placed on the of a microscope .
Over the film was placed a zinc screen , supported on a small wire tripod , so as to be as near as possible to the pitchblende without actually touching it .
The screen would consequently receive all the -particles emitted by the pitchblende beneath it over a range of , and hence the number observed could be doubled in order to obtain the full emission .
The microscope fitted with a wide-angle objective in order to make the scintillations produced by the -particles as bright possible .
The scintillations had to be counted in a dark room , but it was foumd best to illuminate the field htly , as recommended by Begener , as to make ' Verh . .
D. Phys. Ges vol. 10 , p. 78 , 1908 .
Mr. J. N. Brown .
Rate of Emission of [ May 24 , isure that the eye did not shift from over the top of the microscope .
The n.equired illumination was obtained by connecting a 110-volt lamp to 50-volt terminals , a piece of black paper being fitted over the top of the microscope 410 shut off stray light .
The time required for 100 scintillations*to be produced in the field was now measured by means of a stop-watch , readings being taken for various parts of the film and a mean obtained .
Each scintillation was caused by the impact of one -particle against the screen .
Measurements were made with films of different thicknesses , and a curve finally plotted between weight of film and number of scintillations per minute .
In accordance with the known properties of the -rays , if the -particles had all come out normally to the surface , this curve should have been a straight line through the origin up to a certain point , beyond which the line should have been horizontal .
The curve actually obtained did not change its direction quite so suddenly , the more radual change being doubtless due to the fact that the portion of the film immediately beneath the objective was surrounded by more pitchblende from which -particles , emitted obliquely , could reach the screen .
The result had , of course , to be calculated from a film for which the curve showed the rate of production of scintillations to be proportional to the thickness .
The diameter of the film and also that of the field of the microscope were afterwards measured , the latter being obtained by traversing across the field a small strip of metal on which a fine line was ruled .
This strip was attached to a travelling microscope , and the readings of the latter taken when the line first appeared in the field and when it left it .
The of uranium in the pitchblende had now to be estimated .
The method employed for the analysis depended upon precipitating the uranium as phosphate , , in which the percentage of uranium by weight is .
About gramme of the finely powdered pitchblende was submitted to various processes in order to separate the uranium from silica and other substances present .
To the solution remaining after these substances had been eliminated was added about 3 grammes of microcosmic salt , the solution being made just alkaline with ammonium hydrate .
A few drops of dilute nitric acid and a solution of 10 grammes in water were added , and the whole boiled for half an hour .
The yellow precipitate was collected , washed with hot water , dried in the steam oven , detached from the paper and ignited over the blow-pipe till of constant weight .
The It has been found by Rutherford that the error due to the irregular rate at which cintillation.roduced canRoy .
Proc , .
not be eliminated by observing less than 100 See 1910 .
] -Particles from Uranium its Products .
filter paper was incinerated , and the ash added to the contents of the crucible .
The green mass was completely soluble in strong nitric acid , and therefore consisted entirely of This completed the data from which to calculate the rate of emission of -particles from uranium .
The results were as follows:\mdash ; The curve obtained from these results is as follows:\mdash ; .The diameter of the field of the microscope was cm .
The result of the analysis of the pitchb ] end was\mdash ; Now , considering the film weighing gramme , for which the number of scintillations was per minute , Weight of uranium contained in the film Rate of Emission of ticles from Uranium , etc. Hence Number of scintillations per sec. per crramme of uranium over Doubling this to obtain the total emission over , we Number of -particles emitted per sec. per gramme of uranium Butherford* finds that 1 gramme of radium in equilibrium with radium emanation and , gives -particles per second .
This includes four -ray changes .
There are , in addition , two changes in uranium , one in ionium and one in polonium , making four more , and an effect due to actinium , probably very small .
Neglecting this last , the other bodies will bring up the total to per second gramme of radium , or per second per gramme of uranium ; i.e. which is in fair agreement with the above result .
I am indebted to Prof. Strutt for suggesting the research , and for much valuable advice dunng its ; my thanks are also due to Mr. C. S. Garland , A.R.C.S. , B.Sc. , for kindly estimating the percentage of uranium in the pitchblende .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , p. 156 .

