400 Prof. E. Ray Lankester .
On a Species of [ June 8 of the substance towards acids and solvents is such that it is probably chitin and this is confirmed by the fact that , after such treatment , it yielded , on hydrolysis with concentrated hydrochloric acid , a strongly reducing substance which is presumably glucosamine .
The preliminary resistance noted towards the strong acid does not seem remarkable , when one considers the hardening the material must have undergone during and after fossilisation .
On a New Species ofCephalodiscus ( C. nigrescens ) Antarctic Ocean .
By E. Bay Lankester , M.A. , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , F.B.S. , Director of the Natural History Departments of the British Museum .
( Beceived and Bead June 8 , 1905 .
) [ Plate 8 .
] The material here described was dredged by the " Discovery , " on January 13 , 1902 , in 100 fathoms , off Coulman Island , near Victoria Land , in the Antarctic Ocean , and was brought home with the rest of the collections , arriving at the Natural History Museum in September of last year .
It had not been possible for the naturalists on the expedition to examine this organism in the living state , and its nature had not been determined until it came into my hands .
The colony is massive , the test nearly transparent , somewhat opalescent , and with a slight yellowish-brown tint .
The largest piece in the collection measures roughly 190 by 115 mm. and has twelve branches .
This piece is reproduced of natural size in Plate 8 .
The largest single branch is 90 mm. long and 32 mm. across .
The branches are roughly cylindrical in shape , the larger ones are blunt-ended , the smaller ones taper towards their extremities .
Opening at fairly regular intervals over the surface of the colony are the tubes in which polypides dwell , and the substance of the test is sufficiently transparent to enable one to trace the tubes inwards for a moderate distance with the unaided eye , and to recognise the polypides within the tubes .
The margin of the opening of each tube is produced into a blunt lip , and the roughness of the surface of the colony is mainly due to these projecting lips .
Each tube contains but one full-grown polypide and its buds , and does not communicate with the other tubes of the colony .
The deep or blind end of the tube shows a number of thin septa , hemispherical or irregular , which 1905 .
] Cephalodiscus ( C. nigrescens ) from Antarctic Ocean .
401 being secreted in succession , serve to shorten the tube ; the increase in the length of the tube is effected by additions of " test " to its free margin and over the whole surface of the colony .
The tubes do not branch , and the length of the inhabited part of each is about 10 or 12 mm. , and the width 1-2 or 1*3 mm. The polypides are deeply pigmented and appear black to the naked eye .
The pigmented cells are superficial , and are in reality brownish-yellow cells with one or two black spots of small size .
The brownish-red patches which in C. dodecalophus are found around the oviducts , and the red curved line that passes across the buccal shield , are present also in the new species .
The polypide is about three times as long as that of C. dodecalophus .
The length of the body from the front of the buccal shield to the end of the visceral mass is 4*5 mm. , whereas in dodecalophus the corresponding measurement is 1*5 mm. The body is about 1 mm. wide , and fits fairly closely in the tube .
Each polypide has from two to nine buds of various sizes attached by longer or shorter stalks to the extremity of its stolon .
The stolon is short and stout , and in most of the polypides is directed parallel to the long axis of the body , and away from the plumes .
There are 14 plumes in most of the individuals , but the number varies from 12 to 16 .
The axes of the plumes are broad and massive and of a black colour , and they do not terminate in the nearly spherical swellings that are found in the Challenger species C. dodecalophus .
The pinnules are numerous and closely set , and they are not black , although microscopic examination shows that some of the pigmented cells are present on them .
The stomach is not dilated and globular as it is in C. dodecalophus ; it possesses a pointed caecum which passes up between the pharynx and the intestine and terminates between the gonads .
The gonads consist either of two ovaries , of two testes or of an ovary and a testis .
The three kinds of individuals are not distinguishable by any external features , and are not restricted in their distribution ; the same branch of the colony may have *nale , female , and hermaphrodite individuals , and no distinction can be drawn a8 regards sex between the individuals found in the basal , middle and more terminal portions of the same branch .
The coelom is divided , as in C. dodecalophus , into a pair of large abdominal cavities , a pair of collar cavities opening by collar pores close to the gill Slits , and an unpaired cavity in the buccal shield opening by a pair of " proboscis pores " almost immediately above the stalk of the shield .
This new ' species , of Cephalodiscus is clearly marked off from C. dodecalophus oy the massiveness of the colony , the blackness and the large size of the vol. lxxvi.\#151 ; b. 2 E 402 Dr. F. F. Blackman and Miss G. L. C. Matthaei .
[ Apr. vi , polypides , and the restriction of the polypides and their buds to separate tubes .
I propose for it the name Cephalod EXPLANATION OF PLATE .
Photograph of the Natural Size of a Specimen of Cephcdoducus , Lankester , from the Antarctic Ocean .
Experimental Researches in Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
IV.\#151 ; A Quantitative Study of Carbon-Dioxide Assimilation and Leaf-Temperature in Natural Illumination .
By F. Frost Blackman , D.Sc .
, Fellow of St. John 's College , Reader in Botany in the University of Cambridge , and Gabrielle L. C. Matthaei , B.A. , Fellow of Newnham College .
( Communicated by Francis Darwin , For .
Sec. R.S. Received April 11 , \#151 ; Read April 13 , 1905 .
) CONTENTS .
Page Section I.\#151 ; Introduction .
Apparatus and Procedure ... ... ... ... ... ... .
402 Jf II.\#151 ; On the Internal Temperature of Leaves exposed to Natural Illumination ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
406 " III.\#151 ; Assimilation in Natural Illumination ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
412 " IV.\#151 ; Illumination and Temperature as " Limiting Factors " in Assimilation ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
426 " V.\#151 ; The Photosynthetic Value of Full Insolation ... ... ... ... ... ... 435 " VL\#151 ; The Specific Assimilational Characteristics of Diverse Leaves 444 " VII.\#151 ; The Limitation of Assimilation by the Natural Environment 449 " VIII.\#151 ; Conclusions ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .456 Section I.\#151 ; Introduction .
Apparatus and Procedure .
It has been made evident by the experiments recently published by one of us , * that the amount of carbon-dioxide assimilation which a leaf is actually performing , or is capable of performing , is profoundly affected by the temperature of the assimilating cells .
Neglect of this factor has been a fruitful source of confusion in attempts to estimate the effect of different intensities of light upon the process of assimilation .
* " Experimental Researches on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
III.\#151 ; On the Effect of Temperature on Carbon-dioxide Assimilation , " by G. L. C. Matthaei , ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 197,1904 ; to be referred to as " Assim .
and Resp .
III .
"

