450 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ May 27j VI .
" On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond " By J R Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. Stokes , LL. D. , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received April W 1880 .
p In a preliminary notice , which the Royal Society has done me the honour of publishing in the " Proceedings , " I gave a very ohort sketch of the work I have done which led me to a reaction whereby hard crystalline carbon has been produced .
I have now the honour of laying a detailed account of the methods and results before the Society .
As fa , r back as September , 1879 , I was searching for a solvent for the alkali metals , and tried experiments with many liquids and gases , but invariably found that when the solvent reached the permanently gaseous state chemical action ensued .
This was the case even with hydrocarbons , the metal combining with the hydrogen and setting free the carbon .
Paraffin spirit , boiling at 75 ' , was first used in experimenting , and the spirit contained a considerable amount of olefines ; but even these unsaturated hydrocarbons seemed to be split up in like manner .
The experiments were conducted in thick tubes from 1 to 1 5 millims. internal , and 10 to 15 external , diameter , and made of hard glass .
In some cases when the carbon was set free , a considerable proportion of the hydrogen seemed to have combined with the higher olefines and paraffins , rendering them gaseous , most of the gas , however , being formed by the reaction discovered by Thorpe and Young , where a high paraffin splits up into lower olefines and paraffins .
This reaction , I would remark in passing , is not always the only one to take place , as a mixture of lower paraffins and olefines on being heated under very high pressure sometimes yield a small quantity of a higher or even nearly solid paraffin , as well as gaseous products .
An attempt was made to obtain solid paraffin in quantity by this method , but only traces were obtained , white enongb for use .
^.^e alkali metal which decomposes the hydrocarbon retains a quantity of pure hydrogen , which may be seen by exhausting it by the Sprengel pump .
A piece of sodium was exhausted in the molten state for five hours by the Sprengel pump , and when no more hydrogen had been evolved for an hour , a piece was placed in a tube with paraffin spirit and heated for two hours , and when a considerable quantity of carbon was deposited , as much of it was removed as could be conveniently obtained and again exhausted , when 32 times its volume of hydrogen was extracted from it .
This was repeated several times , and quantities of hydrogen , varying from 17 to 25 times the volume of the sodium , obtained .
The carbon deposited on the tube is of a hard scaly nature ; and when the sodium is slowly oxidized and 1880 .
] On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
451 dissolved in water , some very hard scales of carbon are often obtained .
This was then the reaction on which my work was built .
As potassium is a metal of stronger affinities , I thought that an examination of its action on paraffin would yield somewhat better results , but m this 1 was disappointed .
Sometimes its action was very great , but it seemed to combine with some of the substance in the tube , and formed black compounds , having no hard carbon amongst them .
Some of the experiments did yield a little , but on the whole it was not so good as sodium .
Lithium was next tried and yielded results which were much more hopeful .
When the same paraffin spirit was used the lithium floated on it , but by melting the metal in the bottom of the tube it adhered to the sides , and did not float to the top unless any portion became detached .
The appearance shown by lithium is sometimes very beautiful , a small globule of the metal when it has liquefied showing , before it begins to act energetically upon the hydrocarbon , a very beautiful play of colours .
After this has gone on for a little a more rapid reaction sets in as the temperature rises , and carbon is deposited somewhat more plentifully .
Sometimes a piece of the metal will float until it becomes coated with carbon and it then sinks , ihe carbon so obtained is harder than when sodium is employed , and will often scratch glass easily .
I thought that if I could by increased temperature dissolve the nascent carbon m the metal I might obtain diamond ; but after very many trials I did not succeed m doing so .
Many of my scientific friends who had witnessed my experiments thought that a gaseous solvent for carbon might be found , and as t is was the direction of my general work , I abandoned these metallic experiments and went into a more direct examination of the question of gaseous solution .
As by far the greater number of substances with which we are acquainted are found by the intervention of water an are only soluble in water , I thought that an examination of the solvent effects of water under different circumstances would be likely to yield important results .
I found that hard glass tubes resisted the action o water after it had passed its critical point for a time sufficiently long to enable an observer to see whether any great change had taken place in the solution contained in the tube .
By these means it v as oun that many chlorides , sulphates , and nitrates were as soluble m water-gas as in water , if not more so , and that at least no sudden change o solubility was observable at the critical point .
By such a process , however , only qualitative results could be obtained , and a series o experiments was tried , using various volumes of water with a fix proportion of silica in iron tubes , and the solvent power of the estimated in a more accurate manner .
An account of this work will , I hope , be laid before the Society shortly ; in fact , as soon as I have the necessary time for completing the work and writing it , up .
The general result obtained from these experiments was that the solvent Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ May 27.1 power of water was found to be determined by two conditions-1st .
Temperature or molecular vis viva ; and 2nd .
Closeness of the molecules on pressure , which seems to give penetrative power From these observations it will be seen that if a body has any solvent action on another and does not act upon it chemically , such solvent action may be indefinitely increased by indefinitely increasing the tempera ture and pressure of the solvent .
In nature , the temperature has been at one time higher than we can obtain artificially , and the pressure obtamed by a depth of 200 miles from the surface is greater than can be supported by any of the materials from which we can form vessels .
It will thus be seen that , whereas in nature almost unlimited solvent power could be obtained , we are not as yet able to reproduce these conditions artificially .
Could pressure alone increase solvent power then much might be done , but pressure only acts by keeping the mole-cules close together when they have great vis viva , and this latter is only obtained by high temperature .
As glass tubes were quite out of the question when a red heat and very high pressure were required , iron tubes were resorted to , and a series of attempts made to dissolve carbon by various gaseous solvents .
* The difficulty of closing iron tubes as compared with glass tubes caused me to try various methods , which I shall describe here .
Tubes were made of strong hydraulic tubing , 20 " long , 1 " thick , and A " bore .
These were fitted with a plug , screwed with a strong screw fitting very well .
There was placed in the tube some powdered charcoal from which all the inorganic matter had been removed by immersion in hydrochloric and hydrofluoric acids and washing with water , and then sufficient paraffin spirit to fill the tube two-thirds of its volume .
The plug was screwed in with a lute composed of silicate of soda and manganese dioxide , but after heating the tube in a reverberatory furnace for four hours it was found to be impossible to reihove the plug , so the end had to be bored out .
There was neither liquid nor gas in the tube , the luting having leaked .
Another tube similarly filled was fitted with a plug with a copper washer , the end of the tube , plug , and washer being polished , but this also leaked and no result was arrived at .
Baryta , clay , asbestos , and other substances , wet with silicate of soda , were all tried with the same result\#151 ; leakage .
A silver washer kept comparatively tight , but only on one occasion .
It was thus seen that screw-closing would give no reliable results , so another method was tried .
A ball of iron , fitting the tube tightly , was placed in it after the materials had been introduced .
The end of the tube was then narrowed by compression between rollers and turned smooth inside .
The iron ball was then drawn up by a wire attached and luted by silicate of soda and fine manganese dioxide .
It was expected that t e pressure would only serve to make the closing more secure , but , on eating , the iron yielded and the ball was driven out with a loud 1880 .
] On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
explosion .
After trying1 several other methods of closing\#151 ; outside screwing and filling the mouth with molten metal on the top of a clay plug being amongst them\#151 ; I came to the conclusion that nothing would suffice but welding up the open end .
This has been , when carried out efficiently , invariably successful , and in all my later experiments I have used it alone .
It requires great skill on the part of the workman , and it is only one man in a hundred who can perform the operation with invariable success .
The furnace used in these experiments was a reverberatory one , 6 feet long ( internal measurement ) and 2 feet broad ; fire-place , 15 inches ; bridge , 9 inches ; hearth , 4 feet .
The roof sloped down towards the flue and the spent gases had exit at the level of the hearth , thus carrying the flame down as it receded from the fire , in order to have the hearth of one temperature .
The walls were 13 inches thick , and the roof formed of 4-inch fire-clay covers .
Three tubes , 20 " X1 " x bore , were filled as follows Ho. I. 3 grms. sodium , f full paraffin spirit .
" \gt ; \gt ; \#187 ; T \#187 ; " \gt ; \gt ; HI- \gt ; \#187 ; " -f , , " On heating them in the reverberatory furnace , Ho. I exploded before a visible red-heat had been obtained , so the temperature was not allowed to rise any higher , and Hos .
II and III allowed to lie for four hours and then slowly cooled .
On being bored open next day , Ho. II contained a little scaly carbon , but Ho. Ill contained almost none , and nearly all its liquid had been converted into gas , which rushed out on boring it open .
It was noticed by the workmen that the inside of the tube was harder to bore than the outside , and I thought , as I found out afterwards rightly , that the iron had been carbonised and converted into steel .
It seemed , then , that the free carbon had been taken up by the iron .
The same two tubes were welded up again , rather more than half-fall of liquid , and slowly heated , but before they came to as high a temperature as they had been subjected to formerly , they exploded together .
Two more were filled , welded , and heated , but again they burst simultaneously .
It appeared , then , that those tubes were too weak , so two were made 20 " x 2 " x bore .
On trying to weld them when two-thirds full , the liquid got hot , and gave off enough vapour to carbonise the white-hot plug and made a bad weld , so that they had to be kept cool by trickling water upon them immediately below e hot part .
Several tubes were lost in closing before the workman became deft enough at closing them .
Two were at length obtained we closed , and were heated , but again , before a red-heat was reached , ey exploded simultaneously , smashing the roof of the furnace .
It seemed on examining the tubes that one had gone off first , and struck e o her such a blow as caused it to burst , as one had a mark near the vol. xxx .
0 _ 454 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ May 27 , middle as from a blow withi a hammer , and was bent a little .
It became plain , then , that two should not be heated together , at least where they might strike each other on explosion .
Then , again , as the iron took np the carbon set free , I considered that the reaction might be favoured by adding some Carbon to the liquid in the form of lampblack , so that the liquid would be kept always saturated .
A tube , 20 " x2 " X bore was filled , as before , to about three-fourths of its volume , and about half a gram of lamp-black added .
This was heated to just below a red-heat for six hours and allowed to cool slowly .
On being cut open there was a considerable yield of scaly carbon , and the sodium , on being dissolved , left a few pretty hard scales , along with ferric oxide , spongy iron , \amp ; e. This was encouraging , and another tube was filled in the same way , but it burst on heating .
An experiment was then tried with paraffin spirit and lamp-black alone , only about 2 grms. of lamp-black being added to the tube , three parts filled with hydrocarbon .
This experiment went successfully , and on opening the tube after the outrush of gas it was found that nearly all the lampblack had been absorbed by the iron .
This showed that my conjecture was right about the disappearance of the carbon .
Two divisions were then built upon the furnace-hearth , so as to divide it into three spaces , and three tubes of the above dimensions , and filled as follows , were put in them:\#151 ; No. I. 3 grms. naphtha , \ II .
M grm. lamp-black , ^ full paraffin spirit .
2 , , \#166 ; 77 " On heating , No. II burst with a loud explosion , but did not harm Nos. I and III , but on opening these next day they were found o have leaked , so that there may have been no pressure inside them at the time .
Other two , two-thirds filled with liquid and solids as above , also burst ; but as I was absent I do not know at what temperature th%seemed plain that the tubes were much too frail , and although they were made from " Lowmoor " iron , well hammered , and the tube bored out of the solid , they invariably burst lengthwise , showing a reedy structure .
I determined then to try tubes on the coil principle so two were constructed out of the toughest bar soM , and bored out afterwards .
The dimensions were 20 " X 2* X 2 , and were heated to a just visible red-heat , and contmne _ ^*ms ' ' 1 arm .
lamp-black , and two-thirds full of paraffin spirit .
T kept upright hours , and the tubes allowed to cool m Both kept tight , and yielded some hard scaly carbon , hut n g One was tried vJith lithium , and a better yield of carbon obtained , and it was also harder .
Two more tubes of the same lithium , burst , and so were lost .
It now became evident that much 1880 .
] On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
455 .
stronger tubes were necessary for this reaction , or that some other reaction would require to be found .
_ I would here mention a fact which , although not directly connected with our subject , is of great interest to students of chemical physics .
When introducing the alkali metal into the tube it was often necessary to push it down with a rod , and in one ot two cases when I had mislaid the iron rod for the purpose I used a glass rod , of which the end had not been rounded by fusion .
In consequence , some small particles of glass became detached , and being lead glass they were heated to such a temperature that they were softened , and in some cases completely melted by the heat .
Whenever this had taken place the piece of glass had cavities in it , and these cavities were partially Med with liquid or compressed gas , generally with a portion of each .
In e same piece of glass the bubbles were of different size , and often filled to different heights with liquid , just as we find liquid carbonic acid and water filling in different proportions the cavities in the same quartz |crystal .
How these cavities in the glass are formed , and how the liquid gets into them , I cannot at present determine , but even li e i spheres of glass purposely introduced likewise developed cavities con-f taining liquid on being fused under pressure .
As this is a part ot the subject I am investigating , the results being easily produced , I shall I reserve its full discussion until I have examined it from various points 10f view , and varying the substances employed .
I think it right to I mention it here , however , as I have so little leisure and so many inte- !
resting discoveries just touched upon , and each one more tempting as a I field of labour than the other , that it may be some time before I can I have full data on the subject .
" The iron used in making the tubes is what is kuown as " Lowmoor [ iron , a very pure and strong quality , and a portion removed from the I interior of a tube which has been used gave , on analysis , 2'17 per cent. I of carbon , showing to what an extent carbonisation had gone on .
Having obtained results from this process of a kind which showed I that diamond was unlikely to be formed by its agency , I reverted to I the original idea of solution of carbon in a gaseous menstruum , and I from some experiments I had been carrying on with the view of finding I some commercial use for " bone oil , " I concluded that the distillate I from bone oil containing the nitrogenous bases would be most likel ) I to yield such a solvent .
Bone oil , the nitrogenous distillate obtained I in the manufacture of bone char , and for a plentiful supply of which ; I am indebted to Messrs. John Poynter and Sons , of Glasgow , was l distilled , and the portion boiling between 115 ' and 150 ' was taken and rectified over solid caustic potash , and latterly over sodium .
When i satisfied that it was free from moisture , oxygen , and sulphur , a tube , t 2f " x 20 " X bore , was three parts filled , and some charcoal powder i added , and the whole welded up solid .
I found that the nitrogenous 2 k 2 456 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ May 27 liquid was even worse to work with than the hydrocarbon , as on coming into contact with the hot iron it burnt it away at once , and as the tube was of great diameter it was extremely difficult to keep the lower part cool .
For welding it had to be arranged so that it was standing in a tub of ice , and the top projecting through the bottom of the forge , , and heated until it was at a welding beat , with as little delay as possible .
When a tube was obtained welded up solid it was heated to a dull red-heat for 14 hours , and allowed to cool ; on opening the tube there was a very great out-rush of gas , and the carbon was to a certain extent dissolved , and some minute portions of it very hard .
Still , under the microscope it presented little difference in appearance from the wood charcoal employed , some of the features , however , being ' obliterated , and it had a bright appearance .
Another tube of the same dimensions and contents was closed up in the same manner , but after eight hours ' heating it burst with a loud explosion .
I had noticed that a tube which had been once used and been partially carbonised would not stand a second heating , and for this reason I had no belief in the power of cast-iron or steel to withstand the great ' pressure at a red-heat .
Nevertheless , as many of my friends had urged upon me to try these materials , I had a cast-iron tube made , 3f " x 24 " x f " bore , and filled two-thirds of its volume with bone oil distillate and carbon , and then welded up .
We succeeded after a little trouble in making a good weld , and the tube was then slowly raised to a dull red-heat in the furnace .
It had not been heated for more than an hour when it exploded with a great noise , and knocked down the back and one of the ends of the furnace , leaving the whole structure a wreck .
The tube had broken into small fragments , and was quite unlike the malleable iron tubes which generally tore up .
Thinking that it was perhaps a bad casting , I tried another , but it leaked all over , and emptied itself before the temperature was nearly up .
A third tube of the same material burst like the first , but as I had built up the furnace with .
large blast-furnace blocks , it was not blown down .
Cast-iron being inadmissible , experiments were then made with steel .
I had several tubes made of this material by the best firms in the kingdom\#151 ; made by the three methods , Bessemer , Siemens , and the crucible method\#151 ; but they had the same faults as cast-iron , although to a less degree .
The difficulty in making a good weld in cast-iron and steel tubes makes their employment in such experiments as these a matter of inconvenience .
Out of five tubes made of steel , some of which were made of the very toughest material manufactured by Messrs. Cammell and Co. , only one held in the substance completely .
Three burst in the furnace , and one had leaked by its porosity .
The top of the furnace , , by the continued shocks of explosions , fell in at the bursting of the last of the steel tubes .
The continued strain on the nerves , watching the temperature of the furnace , and in a state of tension in case of an 1880 .
] On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
457 explosion , induces a nervous state which is extremely weakening , and when the explosion occurs it sometimes shakes one so severely that sickness supervenes .
It appeared that as the bone oil had so hardened the carbon , if it acted upon nascent carbon it might harden it so much as to produce diamond .
An experiment was accordingly tried in which bone oil distillate and paraffin spirit were mixed , so that when an alkali metal was made to act upon it the decomposition of the hydrocarbon might yield carbon which would be crystallized by the action of the nitrogenous liquid .
The proportions used were 90 per cent , bone oil , and 10 per cent , paraffin spirit , with lithium as the metal .
The tube used was a coil-tube of Lowmoor iron , 4 inches in external , 4-inch internal diameter , and 24 inches long .
Three grms. of lithium was employed , .and the tube filled three parts of its length with the mixed liquids , a little lamp-black added , and welded up .
It was heated 14 hours to a dull red-heat , and then bored open .
A very high pressure was found to exist inside the tube , and as the material was at the other end of the tube it was removed by a long punch .
It was found to be a mixture of carbon and lithium compounds , with some cyanides .
Some of the carbon was very hard , but could be crushed by agate , and would not scratch it ; but there was mixed with it ( as with many of the other experiments ) a few grains of silica .
This was , perhaps , introduced in the welding , as a little silica had to be employed here , and a little may have been added with the lamp-black , which was never quite free from sand or other accidental impurity .
The silica particles were easily removed by placing the substance on the stage of the microscope , and examining by polarized light , when all the particles which showed rotary power were removed .
The results obtained by the use of the two liquids being so much more satisfactory , further experiments were undertaken in this direction , and a series of four tubes filled with varying proportions .
The tubes had the dimensions 20 " X 3f " X bore , and had 3 grms. of lithium introduced into each and then filled as follows :\#151 ; No. I. 80 per cent , bone oil , 20 per cent , paraffin spirit^ 5 grms. of " II .
40 " " 60 " " l lamp-black " HI- 20 " " 80 " " [ added to " IV .
10 " " 90 " " J each .
These were heated separately in the furnace , with the result that Nos. I and III burst , and Nos. II and IV withstood the pressure .
No. II on being bored open gave off a great volume of gas , but on removing the contents nothing but lithium compounds and soft carbon was obtained .
No. IV also evolved much gas , but the solid matter was very hard and contained some hard particles of carbon , but no .diamond .
It seemed therefore probable that some such proportion of 458 Mr. J. B. Hannay .
[ May 27 , ingredients might yield successful results , and another series of five , ranging from 30 per cent , to 10 per cent , of bone oil distillate , was prepared , hut not one of them gave any results .
One by one the tubes exploded , and the furnace had to be reconstructed at the fourth experiment .
I thought I should either have to abandon the attempt or begin experiments of a very expensive nature , using large tubes and a large furnace , as 20-inch tubes of a greater diameter than 4 inches could not be closed when three parts filled\#151 ; at least by welding .
As some of them , however , seemed to stand , I determined to make some further trials with the apparatus I had at my disposal ; so another tube , 20 " X 4 " X bore was filled , using 4 grms. of lithium and a mixture of bone oil , carefully rectified , 90 per cent. , and paraffin spirit 10 per cent. , using these proportions because I .
had never had any results with a high percentage of bone oil , the tubes so filled having burst .
The tufc\gt ; e was closed with great difficulty , being three-parts full of liquid , and then heated to a visible red-heat for fourteen hours , and allowed to cool slowly .
On opening the tube a great volume of gas was given off , and only a little liquid remained .
In the end of the tube which had been the upper end in the furnace , the tube lying obliquely , there was a hard smooth mass adhering to the sides of the tube , and entirely covering the bottom .
As I had never obtained all the solids in one piece before , I wished to examine it , and so had the other end of the tube cut off , exposing the hard mass .
It was quite black , and-was removed with a chisel , and as it appeared to be composed principally of iron and lithium it was laid aside for analysis .
I was pulverising it in a mortar , when I felt that some parts of the material were extremely hard\#151 ; not resisting a blow , but hard otherwise .
On looking closer , I saw that these were mostly transparent pieces imbedded in the hard matrix , and on triturating them I obtained some free from the black matter .
They turned out to be crystalline carbon , exactly like diamond .
I shall describe further on the analyses , \amp ; c. , but will here go on with the account of my further experiments .
Two tubes were filled in the same manner as the last , but one burst on heating , and the other had leaked so that there was no reaction .
Two more tubes were prepared , but were spoiled on welding , and on cutting off the carbonised portion the remainder was too short to work .
After much trouble three tubes were obtained , well closed , in which the three alkali metals were inclosed with liquid containing 20 per cent , bone oil and 80 per cent , paraffin .
All three stood , and , on opening , only the potassium one had leaked to any extent .
The results were not good , however , the sodium tube containing only soft scaly carbon , and the other two very little better .
The reaction did not seem to have proceeded in the same manner in the lithium tube as before , as the mass was soft and friable .
Still , lithium seemed to yield the best results , so it was adhered to in the1880 .
] On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
459 further experiments .
A list of disasters now awaited me .
Eight tubes failed through bursting and leaking , and one of the explosions , when two were being heated together , destroyed a part of the furnace and injured one of my workmen .
Besides this , two tubes were spoiled in welding .
However , I had four experiments after this , all withstanding the pressure , and in one of these , with 10 per cent , bone oil and 90 per cent , paraffin spirit , a small quantity of diamond was found .
The contents of this tube were different from the other successful one , being much looser and not in the same hard mass as the first .
In another series of six experiments two were at first thought to have been successful , but I afterwards found that one of them was not so , the transparent matter being siliceous , but insoluble in cold hydrofluoric acid , although it dissolved on boiling .
The uncertainty and great expense involved in using these forged coils of iron with tubes bored out of the solid induced me to again try steel , and Messrs. Cammell and Co. having prepared some tubes for me , I tried them , but with the same results\#151 ; they exploded into fragments at a red-heat .
And herein they are much more dangerous than coiled tubes , because the latter seldom fly into fragments , but just tear open a little .
A further unforeseen danger in using steel tubes was discovered .
One which had stood the heating very well was being bored , and when the inner skin was cut so that the gas rushed out , the whole exploded , endangering the life of the workman who was boring , but as he was standing at the end of the tube and the pieces flew laterally he was not hurt .
I have performed over eighty experiments , and have only obtained three results of a successful nature .
The identification of the crystalline pieces as carbon was easy enough , but I have been anxious to find whether they are pure carbon or a compound with some other element , and to that end the following experiments were conducted .
A portion of the substance from the first successful experiment was weighed out after it had been freed from all foreign matter adheing to it , and placed in a very small platinum boat made of a strip of thin foil , the ends of which were wrapped round two stout platinum wires which were sealed into a wide glass tube .
The carbon particles were transferred to this boat after being weighed , and the tube connected by india-rubber stoppers with an oxygen gasometer on the one side and a series of potash bulbs on the other .
The oxygen was dried over solid caustic potash before entering the tube , and again after leaving the potash bulbs .
The carbon ( 14 mgrms .
) having been weighed out , the potash bulbs were weighed , and a current of oxygen passed through the apparatus , and the platinum wires connected with a battery strong enough to heat the foil to a bright red-heat .
After a few minutes the oxygen was stopped and the bulbs weighed , when it was found that they had gained 1 mgrm .
On repeating this operation no gain was found , the moisture having been entirely driven oft by the 460 On the Artificial Formation of the Diamond .
[ May 27 , first treatment .
The carbon was now placed in the boat and a slow current of oxygen started , then the bulbs connected and the current made to pass through the platinum until all the diamond had been burnt , when the current was stopped and the oxygen allowed to pass for fifteen minutes more , when the bulbs , were detached and weighed .
They were then reconnected and the gas passed for other ten minutes to find whether all the carbonic acid had been expelled and reweighed .
They weighed 0'2 mgrm .
less than before .
The numbers were as follow:\#151 ; Potash bulbs before combustion ... ... 43'8308 " " after " ... ... 43'8776 -------- -0468 Drying tube before combustion ... ... 264294 " after " ... ... 264328 -------- -0034 .0502 This gives a composition of 97'85 per cent , of carbon , which is a pretty fair approximation to pure carbon .
However , to determine whether or not this was not the case , some further experiments were tried .
A small quantity of the carbon was placed on the platinum boat and burnt in oxygen without any of the gas being allowed to pass out of the apparatus , and the mixed gases so obtained transferred to a eudiometer , and the carbonic acid and oxygen absorbed .
It was then found that a residue amounting to about 3 per cent , by volume of the carbonic acid was left unabsorbed by alkaline pyrogallate solution .
This proved to be nitrogen .
A blank experiment was done , but it gave only a minute bubble of nitrogen .
Another experiment was performed with the following results :\#151 ; Total volume ... ... ... ... ... . .
183"7 ' After absorption of C03 ... . .
148'5 ' C03= 35'2 After " " O ... ... 1*1 ' O 1474 N 11 This plainly shows that nitrogen was present from some cause or another , and as every precaution was taken in transferring the gas from one vessel to another , and as the blank experiment showed nothing , I am inclined to believe that the carbon , or at least some portions of it , contained nitrogen chemically combined .
The numbers above given are degrees on the eudiometer tube , and are not more than one-third of a cubic centimetre each .
Their exact value was of no consequence in the experiment , and the tube was only calibrated by comparing one part with another , and not with an absolute measure .
From the fact that no diamond was found when nitrogen compounds 1880 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On the Spectrum of Carbon .
461 were absent , and from the fact that the mixed product ( for only a portion of the 14 mgrms .
was clear diamond ) contains nitrogen , I am inclined to believe that it is by the decomposition of a nitrogenous body , and not the hydrocarbon , that the diamond is formed in this reaction .
The experiments are , however , too few , and the evidence too vague , to draw any conclusions , as there are even very few negative experiments from which anything can be learned , most of the results being lost by explosion .
I intend , when my other work\#151 ; which I laid aside for the diamond experiments\#151 ; is finished , to begin a series of experiments on the decompositions of carbon compounds by metals , to find whether a more easily controlled reaction may not be discovered .
VII .
" Further Note on the Spectrum of Carbon .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 11 , 1880 .
The preliminary discussion of a considerable number of photographs of the spectra of various carbon compounds has brought to light a relationship which I think may be worthy of notice in the Proceedings ; it was noticed orally in connexion with the paper read before the Society on April 29th .
A comparison of the photographs of the various carbon compounds .observed under various conditions enabled us to isolate the lines in the blue and ultra-violet portions of the spectrum ( wave-lengths 4300\#151 ; 3800 ) .
Tn this manner the constant lines seen in the photographs of the spectra of CC14 , C10H8 , ON , CHI3 , CS3 , C02 , CO , \amp ; c. , have been mapped , and the coincident lines and flutings thus marked .
The phenomena thus seen with more or less constancy are a blue line , with a wave-length of 4266 ; a set of blue flutings , extending from 4215 to 4151 ; and another set of ultra-violet flutings , which .extend from 3885 to 3843 ( all approximate numbers ) .
Eia .
1 .
Action of three different temperatures on a hypothetical substance , assuming three stages of complete dissociation .
In a photograph of the spectrum of the electric arc ( with a weak

