292 Mr. E. J , " Reed on the Di [ Feb. 9 , III .
" On the Problem of the In- and Circumscribed Triangle .
" By A. CayltsV , F.R.S. Received December 30 , 1870 , ( Abstract .
) - The problem of the in and circumscribed triangle is a particular case of that of the in- and circumscribed polygon ; the last-mentioned problem may be thus stated\#151 ; to find a polygon such that the angles are situate in and the sides touch a given curve or curves .
And we may in the first instance inquire as to the number of such polygons .
In the case where the curves containing the angles and touched by the sides respectively are all of them distinct curves , the number of polygons is obtained very easily and has a simple expression s it is equal to twice the product of the orders of the curves containing the several angles respectively into the product of the classes of the curves touched by the several sides respectively ; or , say , it is equal to twice the product of the orders of the angle-curves into the product of the classes of the side-curves .
But when several of the curves become one and the same curve , and in particular when the angles are all of them situate in and the sides all touch one and the same curve , it is a much more difficult problem to find the number of polygons .
The solution of this problem when the polygon is a triangle , and for all the different relations of identity between the different curves , is the object of the present memoir , which is accordingly entitled " On the Problem of the In- and Circumscribed Triangle ; " the methods and principles , however , are applicable to the case of a polygon of any number of sides , the method chiefly made use of being that furnished by the theory of correspondence , IV .
" On the Unequal Distribution of Weight and Support in Ships , audits Effects in Still Water , in Waves , and in Exceptional Positions on Shore .
" ' By E. X Reed , C.B. , Vice-President of the Institution of Naval Architects .
' Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received December 31 , 1870 .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to bring within the grasp of calculation what the author considers a much neglected division of shipbuilding science and art , by investigating the actual longitudinal bending- and shearing-strains to which the structure is exposed in ships of various forms under the varying conditions to which all ships are more or less liable .
The weakness exhibited by many ships has long pointed to the necessity of further investigation in this direction ; and two modern events ( the use of iron and steel in shipbuilding , and the introduction of armoured ships ) have added much to the urgency of the inquiry .
After glancing briefly at the state of the question as presented in the writings of Bouguer , Bernoulli , Euler , Don Juan D ' Ulloa , Romme , Dupin ,

