]\gt ; General J. T. lValker .
On the Unit of Length [ Feb. 13 , platinum to the centre of the mass , I melted 900 parts of fine gold with 100 parts of pure platinum , and , after repeated meItings , cast this alloy into the same mould used for the experiments recorded above .
The result was , as in the previous cases , liquation of the tinum towards the centre of the sphere , the gold and platinum in 1000 parts being as 900 to 098 on the exterior , against 845 and 146 at the centre of the mass ( see diagram II .
' On the Unit of Length of a Standard Scale Sir George Shuckburgh , appertaining to the Royal Society By General J. T. WALKEII , , F.R.S. Received February 3 , 1890 .
In the determinations of the Iength of the seconds pendulum , which were made in London by Kater and at Greenwich by Sabine , and are described the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1818 , 1829 , and 1831 , the distance between the upper and lower edges of the pendulum was measnred off on a standard scale which had been constructed by Sir George Shuckburgh .
The scale had not been compared with any of the .
modern standard scales , but it had been with much cars with the lments appertaining to the Royal Society .
In the autumn of 1888 , M. le Commandant Defforges , an officer of the French Geodetic Survey , came to England to take a share in operations for the determination of the difference in longitude between Greenwich and , and also to determine the length of a French seconds pendulum at Greenwich .
He kindly undertook to oomply with a suggestion which was made to him by me , to compare the portion of 's scale which had been employed by Kater and Sabine with one of the sfandard metre bars of the International Bureau of Weights and Measures in Paris .
The Council of the Royal Society assented , and the scale was sent across to Paris and brought back again by special messenger .
The details and results of the comparison are given in the following account by Commandant Defforges , from which it will be seen that the scale was compared with the French metrical brass scale , , at the temperature , of F. , at which the distance between Kater and Sabine 's and , of the Shuckburgh scale was found equal to metre .
On reducing to the temperature of F. , which was employed by .
and Sabine , this distance becomes metre , which is equivalent to inches if we adopt the relation 1 metre inches , which was determined by Colonel Clarke , C.B. , of the Ordnance Survey , and is given in his valuable work on the Comparisons of Standards of Length .
Thus 1890 .
] of a Standard Scale by Sir George Shuckburgh .
187 the actual length of the space to on the Shuckburgh scale may be regarded with some probability as fering by not more than about inch , or , say , the 100 , part , from the quantity which the scale indicates .
Comparaison executee au Bureau International des Poids et Mesures entre la Regle en laiton de la Societe Royale dite " " Begle de \ldquo ; et le international .
La regle en laiton de la Societe Royale a ete disposee ] Decembre , 1888 , dans le comparatetlr de Stark et Kammerer pour etre comparee la regle Bureau International des Poids et Mesures .
La regle est un en laiton .
La regle de la Societe Royale etaib posee a plat sir le banc nivele du comparateur ponr se rapprocher le plus possible de sa situation pendant les experiences de Kater .
Les mesures ont ete faites le 5 Decembre , 1888 , a la temperature ambiante de par M. le Docteur Benoit , aujourd'hui Directcllrdu Bnreau Intel.national , et M. le Commandant Defforges , chacun des observateurs executant l'un apres l'autre les points aux deux microscopes du comparateur .
On a compare , pour satisfaire all desire de M. le General J. T. Walker , l'intervalle .
de la de Kater au metre etalon N. En designant par la regle anglaise , on a trouve , par un serie de mesures tres concordantes : \mdash ; Temperature .
Observateur Benolt .
Observateur Defforges . .
Moyenue . .
Donc , en moyenne , a Or , d'apres les determinations anterieures de la regle , l'une des gles les mieux etudiees du Bureau International , on , a Oonc , toujours a la temperature de Donc , en resume : S 188 Unit of Length of a Scale by Sir .
Shuckburgh .
[ Feb. 13 , Les deux observateurs ont en outre mesure la valeur de un dizieme de pouce entre les divisions 39 pouces et 40 pouces , ils ont trouve : de pouce Calcul , en metres , de la Longueur Pendule simple a Londres d'apres D'apres le memoire de Kater , la valeur de la distance emre les couteaux du pendnle convertible mesures a l'aide des contacts , Bb etait egale a l'intervalle pouces ) de l'etalon augmente de lere mesure , divisions du micrometre .
La meme longueur , mesuree directement entre les aretes des couteaux ( couteanx noirs sur fond blanc ) , etait egale a l'intervalle augmente de divisions du micrometre .
Negligeant la correction d'irradiation admise par Kater , et qui n'aurait pas du etre appliquee a cette derniere ure ( voir Deflorges , ' ensit absolue de la Pesanteur , ' page 47 ) , et prenant la moyenne des longueurs obtenues par les deux methodes , on aurait , pour la distance des aretes , d'apres Kater Intervalle , a Fahrenheit .
Or , la comparaison de Breteuil ayant ete faite a C. ou F. , il faut utiliser le coefficient de dilatation du pendnle donne par Kater et qu'il parait supposer a celui de la regle etalon pour ramener les resultats de la comparaison de Breteuil a F. On trouve ainsi:\mdash ; et Appliquant ces valeurs a la distance donnee par Kater , on a : Presents .
1890 .
] et la distancs des aretes serait , a F. , en arrondissant le chiffre ; microns : G. DEFFORGES .
[ Note.\mdash ; Since the above was in type I have been favoured Mr. O. H. Tittmann with a copy of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey 's ' Bulletin , ' No. 9 , dated 15th June , 1889 , on the relation of the yard to metre , in which it sown hown that the valuc 1 inches is somewhat more probable than the th value above adopted from Col. Clarke .
This valuc makes tho distance between divisions and of the Shuckburgh scale iuches , showing an error of instead inches , as above indicated.\mdash ; llarch 24 , 1890 . .
T. W. ] IIL ' Note on the pectrum of the Nebula of \ldquo ; By J. LOCKYER , F.R. .
Received February 13 , 1890 .
Publication deferred .
] IV .
Preliminary Note on aphs of the Spectrum of the Nebula in Orion By J. NORMAN LOCKYER , F.B.S. Received February 13 , 1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presenfs , February 13 , 1890 .
Transactions .
Frankfort-oll-Oder:\mdash ; Naturwissellschaftlicher .
Monatliche Mittheilungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der Naturwissenschaften .
Jahrg . .
Nr .
12 .
Jahrg . .
Nr .
1-2 .
Frcmhfurt .
O. 1888-89 .
The Verein .
Kew:\mdash ; Royal Gardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Informatio ] ] .
No. 38 . .
London 1890 .
The Director .
London :Middlesex Hospital .
Reports of the Medical , Surgical , and Registrars .
1888 . .
London 1889 .
The Hospital .
OdontologicaI Society of Great Britain .
Transactions .
Vol. XXII .
No. 3 . .
London 1890 ; List of Members , 1890 .
The Society .

