" On the Empirical Laws of the Tides in the Port of Liverpool .
" By the Rev. William Whewell , M.A. , F.R.S. The author employs the results of the discussion of sixteen years of tide observations made at Liverpool , published by Mr. Lubbock in the Philosophical Transactions for the present year , in testing and improving the formula ?
, expressing the mathematical laws of the inequa ?
lities of the phenomena of the tides , which had already been deduced by the author from the London tide observations .
He finds that the Liverpool observations have not only eonfirmed , in the most satisfactory manner , these formula ?
, but have furnished the means of greatly improving them .
The corrections for lunar parallax and declination , which , as far as they depended on the former investigation , might be , considered as in some measure doubtful , and only locally applicable , have now been fully verified as to their general form ; the nature of the local differences in the constants of the formula ?
has also , in part , come into view ; and the investigation has , moreover , shown that , notwithstanding the great irregularities to which the tides are subject , the results of the means of large masses of good observations agree with the formula ?
with a precision not far below that of other astrono ?
mical phenomena .
The formula ?
obtained point directly to a very simple theory of the circumstances of tides , namely , that the tide at any place occurs in the same way as if the ocean assumed the form of equilibrium , corresponding to a certain antecedent time , and different place .
The ocean , in its position of equilibrium , would have the form of a spheroid , of which the pole would revolve round the earth , following the moon at a certain distance of terrestrial longitude .
This distance is termed by the author the retroposition of the theoretical tide in longitude , its mean value being what he has termed in other communications , the corrected cstablishment of the place .
If from an original equilibrium tide , a derivative tide were sent off , along any chan nel , in which it is no longer infiuencedby the forces of the moon and sun , it would take a certain time in reaching any place in that chan ?
nel , and the circumstances of the tide at that place would not depend on the positions and distances of the moon and sun at the time when the tide happens , but on the positions and distances of those luminaries at a certain time , anterior to the time of the tide , by the interval occupied in the transmission of the tide along the channel .
This in ?
terval of time , which , in his former papers , the author had called the age of the tide , he here terms the retroposition of the theoretical tide in time .
Adopting this phraseology , the author finds that the phenomena of the Liverpool tides may be expressed as follows .
1 .
The effects which the changes of the moon 's force produce on the tides are the same as the effects which those changes would produce upon a retroposited equilibrium tide .
2 .
The retroposition of the tide in longitude is affected by small changes , which changes are proportional to the variations in the moon 's force .
3 .
The retroposition of the tide in time is also affected by small changes , which changes depend on the variations in the moon 's force .
On the hypothesis that an equilibrium tide give rise to the Liver ?
pool tides , we must suppose that the channel by which they are transmitted occupies in length , from west to east , I lh 6ni of longitude ; or we may suppose the tide spheroid to lie behind the position of equilibrium by a certain space5 and the longitude occupied by the chan ?
nel from end to end , may be supposed to make up the rest of the 11h 6m , the retroposition of the tide in longitude .
The author proceeds to show how the circumstances of the tide may be hypothetically re ?
presented on these suppositions ; although it is not to be imagined that these hypotheses are strictly accordant with the true state of the case .
As the general laws of the tides at other places must resemble those at Liverpool , they will of course be capable of being represented in a similar manner .
The remainder of the paper is occupied by a comparison of the data of observations at London and Liverpool , and by an investigation of the corrections in the formulae thence resulting .

