238 Messrs. Negretti and Zambra [ Mar. 12 , They are closely similar structures ; but there does not appear to be any reason for considering them " serial homologues , " or more closely related than are , say , the hairs on the head of a man with the hairs on his chest .
II .
" On a New Deep-sea Thermometer .
" By Henry Negretti and Joseph Warren Zambra .
Communicated by Dr. Carpenter , F.R.S. Received March 5 , 1874 .
The Fellows of the Royal Society are perfectly aware of the assistance afforded by Her Majesty 's Government ( at the request of the Royal Society ) for the purpose of deep-sea investigations , and have been made acquainted with their results by the Reports of those investigations published in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society ' and by the interesting work of Professor Wyville Thomson .
Among other subjects , that of the temperature of the sea at various depths , and on the bottom itself , is of the greatest importance .
The Fellows are also aware that for this purpose a peculiar thermometer was and is used , having its bulb protected by an outer bulb or casing , in order that its indications may not be vitiated by the pressure of the water at various depths , that pressure being about 1 ton per square inch to every 800 fathoms .
This thermometer , as regards the protection of the bulb and its non-liability to be affected by pressure , is all that can be desired ; but unfortunately the only thermometer available for the purpose of registering temperature and bringing those indications to the surface is that which is commonlv known as the Six 's thermometer\#151 ; an instrument acting by means of alcohol and mercury , and having movable indices with delicate springs of human hair tied to them .
This form of instrument registers both maximum and minimum temperatures , and as an ordinary out-door thermometer it is very useful ; but it is unsatisfactory for scientific purposes , and for the object which it is now used ( viz.^ the determination of deep-sea temperatures ) it leaves much to be desired .
Thus the alcohol and mercury are liable to get mixed in travelling , or even by merely holding the instrument in a horizontal position j the .
indices also are liable either to slip if too free , or to stick if too tight .
A sudden jerk or concussion will also cause the instrument to give erroneous readings by lowering the indices , if the blow be downwards , or by raising them , if the blow be upwards .
Besides these drawbacks , the Six 's thermometer causes the observer additional anxiety on the score of inaccuracy ; for , although we get a minimum temperature , we are by no means sure of the point where this minimum lies .
Thus Pro essor Wyville Thomson says ( ' Depths of the Sea , ' p. 139 ) : " The determma tion of temperature has hitherto rested chiefly upon the registration o minimum thermometers .
It is obvious that the temperature registere 1874 .
] on a New Deep-sea Thermometer .
by minimum thermometers sunk to the bottom of the sea , even if their registration were unaffected by the pressure , would only give the lowest temperature reached somewhere between top and bottom , not necessarily at the bottom itself .
The temperatures at various depths might indeed ( provided they nowhere increased on going deeper ) be determined by a series of minimum thermometers placed at different distances along the line , though this would involve considerable difficulties .
Still , the liability of the index to slip , and the probability that the indication of the thermometers would be affected by the great pressure to which they were exposed , rendered it very desirable to control their indications by an independent method .
" Again , at page 299 , we find :\#151 ; " I ought to mention that in taking the bottom temperature with the Six 's thermometer the instrument simply indicates the lowest temperature to which it has been subjected ; so that if the bottom \yater were warmer than any other stratum through which the thermometer had passed , the observations would be erroneous .
" Undoubtedly this would be the case in extreme latitudes , or in any spot where the temperature of the air is colder than that of the ocean .
Certainly the instrument might be warmed previous to lowering ; but if the coldest water should be on the surface , uo reading , to be depended upon , could be obtained .
It was on reading these passages in the book above referred to that it became a matter of serious consideration with us whether a thermometer could be constructed which could not possibly be put out of order in travelling or by incautious handling , and which should be above suspicion and perfectly trustworthy in its indications .
This was no very easy task .
But the instrument now submitted to the Bellows of the Eoyal Society seems to us to fulfil the above onerous conditions , being constructed on a plan different from that of any other self-registering thermometers , and containing as it does nothing but mercury , neither alcohol , air , nor indices .
Its construction is most novel , and may be said to overthrow our previous ideas of handling delicate instruments , inasmuch as its indications are only given by upsetting the instrument .
Having said this much , it will not be very difficult to guess the action of the thermometer ; for it is by upsetting or throwing out the mercury from the indicating column into a reservoir at a particular moment and in a particular spot that we obtain a correct reading of the temperature at that moment and in that spot .
First of all it must be observed that this instrument has a protected bulb , in order to resist pressure .
This protected bulb is on the principle devised by us some sixteen years since , when we supplied a considerable number of thermometers thus protected to the Meteorological Department of the Board of Trade ; and they are described by the late Admiral FitzRoy in the first Number of the 'Meteorological Papers , ' page 55 , published July 5th , 1857 .
Referring to the erroneous readings of all thermometers , consequent on their delicate bulbs being compressed by the great pressure of the ocean , he So 240 On a New Deep-sea Thermometer .
[ Mar. 12 , gaysWith a view to obviate this failing , Messrs. Negretti and Zambra undertook to make a case for the weak bulbs , which should transmit temperature , but resist pressure .
Accordingly a tube of thick glass is sealed outside the delicate bulb , between which and the casing is a space all round , which is nearly filled with mercury .
The small space not so fiPed is a'vacuum , into which the mercury can be expanded , or forced by heat or mechanical compression , without doing injury to or even compressing the inner or much more delicate The thermometers now in use in the i Challenger Expedition are on this principle , the only difference being that the protecting chamber has been partly filled with alcohol instead of with mercury ; but that has nothing to do with the principle of the invention .
We have therefore a protected bulb thermometer , like a siphon with parallel legs , all in one piece , and having a continuous communication , as in the annexed figure .
The scale of this thermometer is pivoted on a centre , and being attached in a perpendicular position to a simple apparatus ( which will be presently described ) , is lowered to any depth that may be desired .
In its descent the thermometer acts as an ordinary instrument , the mercury rising or falling according to the temperature of the stratum through which it passes ; but so soon as the descent ceases , and a reverse motion is given to the line , so as to pull the thermometer to the surface , the instrument turns once on its centre , first bulb uppermost , and afterwards bulb downwards .
This causes the mercury , which was in the left-hand column , first to pass into the dilated siphon bend at the top , and thence into the right-hand tube , where it remains , indicating on a graduated scale the exact temperature at the time it was turned over .
The wood-cut shows the position of the mercury aft the instrument has been thus turned on its centre .
A is the bulb ; B the outer coating or protecting cylinder ; C is the space of rarefied air , which is reduced if the outer casing be compressed ; D is a small glass plug on the principle of our Patent MuTimnm Thermometer , which cuts off , in the moment of turning , the mercury in the column from that of the bulb in the tube , thereby ensuring that none but the mercury in the tube can be transferred into the indicating column ; E is an enlargement made in the bend so as to enable the mercury to pass quickly from one tube to another in revolving ; and E is the indicating tube , or thermometer proper .
In its action , as soon as V 1874 ] On the Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions .
241 the thermometer is put in motion , and immediately the tube has acquired a slightly oblique position , the mercury breaks off at the point D , runs into the curved and enlarged portion E , and eventually falls into the tube F , when this tube resumes its original perpendicular position .
The contrivance for turning the thermometer over may be described as a short length of wood or metal having attached to it a small rudder or fan ; this fan is placed on a pivot in connexion with a second , and on this second pivot is fixed the thermometer .
The fan or rudder points upwards in its descent through the water , and necessarily reverses its position in ascending .
This simple motion or half turn of the rudder gives a whole turn to the thermometer , and has been found very effective .
Various other methods may be used for turning the thermometer , such as a simple pulley with a weight which might be released on touching the bottom , or a small vertical propeller which would revolve in passing through the water .
March 19 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. Viscount Cardwell was admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. I. " Preliminary Notice of Experiments concerning the Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions .
" By Walter Noel Hartley , F.C.S. , Demonstrator of Chemistry , King 's College , London .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received February 3 , 1874 .
The author has been engaged in investigating the above subject during the last eighteen months , and his experiments being still in progress , he thinks it desirable to place the following observations on record .
In the examination of the absorption-spectra , as seen in wedge-shaped cells , of the principal salts of cerium , cobalt , copper , chromium , didymium , nickel , palladium , and uranium , to the number of nearly sixty different solutions , it was noticed that the properties of the substances in regard to changes of colour could be ascertained by noticing the absorption-curves and bands , so that , provided water be without chemical action , it could be foreseen what change would occur on dilution of a saturated solution .
The effect of Heat on Absorption-spectra .
When saturated solutions of coloured salts are heated to 100 ' C. , 1st ,

