164 Mr. A. Mallock .
point of silver ; and the same is true of silver-platinum .
The silver aluminium curve presents some singularities ; but here , as with other aluminium alloys , we have been troubled by partial oxidation of the aluminium , and we therefore hope to revise our experiments with this metal , before publishing them in full .
" Note of the Radius of Curvature of a Cutting Edge .
" By A. Mallock .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , F.R.S. Received June 9 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
The following note may be of interest , partly as indicating the extreme thinness to which a cutting edge may be brought by the ordinary process of grinding , and partly also as showing how readily the wave-length of light may be used , with only the simplest appliances , as a practical unit for the measurement of small distances .
The object in view was to find , the thickness , or at any rate a superior limit to the thickness , of the cutting edge of a razor , and for this purpose two pieces of thin glass ( such as is used for covering microscope slides ) were prepared about ^ inch long and wide .
These were pressed together by a small steel clip A , and the edge of the razor was inserted between them as shown in fig. ( 1 ) .
Fig. 1 .
The razor with the thin glasses in this position was then placed on the micrometer stage of a microscope and illuminated perpendicularly with light from a soda flame .
With the microscope , interfei'ence bands were of course visible between the thin glasses ; and the number of bands , ( N ) , counting from the spot where the clip pressed the glasses into optical contact Note of the Radius of Curvature of a Cutting .
165 up to the edge of the blade , gives the distance BC in terms of the half wave-length .
The distance , BD , was measured by the micrometer , and the number obtained by dividing BD by the distance between the consecutive bands in the neighbourhood of the edge ( since the thin glasses are hardly at all bent so near their free ends ) gives when added to N the number of half wave-lengths in DE .
After these measures had been made , a piece of flat glass was laid on the blade of the razor as in fig. ( 2 ) and the number of interference Fio .
2 .
bands which appeared between the edge and a line parallel to the edge , but distant BD from it , was counted ; and this observation was repeated with the flat glass on the opposite side of the blade .
The angle H P I , i.e. , the angle between the two positions of the flat glass , was also measured .
If the grinding of the razor was perfect and there was no rounding at the edge , no interference bands would be visible between the blade and the glass , but the two would be in contact up to the actual edge .
Pig .
( 3 ) is a large scale cross-section of the blade in the neighbourhood of the edge .
The thickness of the edge K L is D'E'\#151 ; ( D'P + GE ' ) - ( FK + LG ) ' .
If we put N = number of bands between the clip A and the razor edge ; e = the distance between consecutive bands near the edge ; j- = the number of bands between the flat glass and either side of the blade in a distance DB from the edge ; BD = a and HPI = 0 .
166 Note of the Radius of Curvature of a Cutting Edge .
Fig. 3 .
D'F+GrE ' \#151 ; 2 a sin ^ nearly ; Whence IK-f-EGr \#151 ; -f- gA .
KL = \#151 ; m\#151 ; sin In the case of the razor on which these measures were made N = 85 = 3 n2 = 2 aje = 8a \#151 ; 0-00405 in .
sin = and since for soda light = 0-.00Q0116 in .
nearly KL = 0-0000116 x 88-0-00405 x 0-25 = 0"00102\#151 ; O'OOIOI , nearly .
Thus K L is not greater than 0*00001 , and if it is assumed that the actual edge has the curved crOss-section , indicated by the dotted line in fig. 3 , the radius of curvature cannot be greater than 1/ 200,000 of an inch .
A well sharpened razor will cut a hair , when merely pressed against it at about an eighth of an inch , or rather more , from the place where the hair is held . .
Human hair taken from the head has a circular cross-section , and varies in diameter in different individuals from 0'002 to 0-004 in .
With a hair of 0-0025 in , diameter , fixed at one end and free at the other , it was found that half a grain acting at an eighth of an inch from the fixed end , bent it through an angle of about 30 ' .
On the Determination of Wave-length of Electric Radiation .
1(57 The razor applied at the same distance from the fixed end would sometimes cut through the hair before it had bent it as much as 30 ' ; and this shows that a force of half a grain must make the pressure per unit area at the place of contact sufficient to cause crushing or disruption of the material even when the edge has entered the hair to a distance comparable with the radius of the latter .
If we assume that the thickness of the edge is 1/ 100,000 in .
and that it has entered the hair until the length of the edge engaged is 1/ 1,000 in .
, the area in contact will be about 1/ 100,000,000 of a square inch and the pressure per square inch rather more than 3 tons , if the total force over the area of contact is half a grain .
It is difficult to get any direct measure of the pressure required to destroy by crushing or shearing the material of which hair is composed , but horn which is of the same nature requires a much larger pressure than 3 tons per square inch to crush it .
A rough experiment showed that a cylindrical steel punch with a flat end , began to sink into a block of horn when the pressure was bet ween 12 and 16 tons per square inch .
It would seem , therefore , that although the optical method shows that the thickness at the edge cannot be greater than 1/ 100,000 inch , the real thickness judged by the pressure per unit area necessary to cause the edge to cut in the way it actually does , must be considerably less than this .
" On the Determination of the Wave-length of Electric Radiation by Diffraction Grating .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , D.Sc .
( Lond. ) , Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received June 2 , \#151 ; Read June 18 , 1896 .
While engaged in the determination of the " Indices of Refraction of various Substances for the Electric Ray " ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 59 , p. 160 ) , it seemed to me that the results obtained would be rendered more definite if the wave-length of the radiation could at the same time be specified .
Assuming the reflation between the dielectric constant K and the index / i as indicated by Maxwell , to hold good in all cases , it would follow that the index could be deduced from the dielectric constant and versa .
The values of K found for the same substance by different observers are , however , found not to agree very well with each other .
This may , to a certain extent , be due to the different rates of alternation of the field to which the dielectrics were subjected .
It has been found in general that the value of K is higher for slower rates of alternation

