18 Mr. A. Le Sueur on Observations with the [ June 16 , XVII .
" Observations with the Great Melbourne Telescope , in a Letter to Prof. Stokes ' .
" By A. Le Sueur .
Communicated by Prof. Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received April 18 , 1870 .
Observatory , Feb. 27 .
Dear Sir , \#151 ; I have little more definite to tell you with reference to the star ij Argus ; thinking that a larger dispersion would be of advantage , I have had a supplementary hrrangement added to the spectroscope , by means of which a direct prism may be interposed between the collimator and the usual prism .
" With this increased dispersion , the red line keeps its place ; the yellow one turns out to be slightly more refrangible than D. The green lines , which , with the smaller dispersion , were very difficult , now become almost unmanageable ; this would seem to throw some doubt on their reality , as mere extra dispersion should have little effect on real lines .
The direct prism being a small one , does not take in the whole of the pencil when condensed to the limits bearable by the collimator ; but as the arrangements at my disposal do not in any case admit of utilizing the full condensation , the smallness of the prism has not had any .
material effect .
On the whole , I am now inclined to think that , with respect to the green lines , the appearance of the spectra is due to a character of light somewhat similar to that of a Orionis , \amp ; c\#187 ; ; a spectrum of groups of dark lines , with spaces more or less free between them , producing the effect ( when the light is not sufficient to bear a slit fine enough for dark lines ) of a spectrum crossed by bright lines .
The behaviour of the red line , however ( of the blue one , being less conspicuous , I cannot speak with so much confidence ) , would lead to the already drawn inference that it is a real hydrogen line .
I have examined other stars of about the same magnitude as Argus ; in the majority of these there is not even a suspicion of condensation in any part of the spectrum ; red stars , R Leporis for instance , give a spectrum not dissimilar to that of q Argus ; but the red line on none of the stars examined is so conspicuous as in q. The weather since the beginning of this year has been more favourable , so that I am able , by degrees , to increase the amount of work done , the routine work is the review of figured nebulae ; as might be expected , the 4 feet gives views considerably different from the C. G. H. drawings ; but at present I have nothing worthy of special mention .
The light of the nebulae , as they are taken up for general examination , is analyzed with the prism ; of those which have been examined I have yet found none for which it may be certainly said that the light is not of definite refrangibilities .
# .
In irregular nebulae , the bright knots even , which are so distinctly 1870 .
] Great Melbourne Telescope .
JO mottled as to point to a cluster condition , give out , as far as I have yet seen , light which is monochromatic , or nearly so .
Acknowledged clusters , where discrete stars are plainly discernible , are of course excluded ; of the nebulosity mixed up with such clusters as 47 Toucan , I cannot speak with certainty ; but if the light were monochromatic , I think that ( in the case particularised at least ) the brilliancy would be sufficient to afford a definite impression .
* Would you call Lord Rosse 's attention to 1477-78 ( general catalogue ) , of which I enclose a diagram from measured positions ?
The configuration differs so widely from that given in the Philosophical Transactions , that , with reference to the rotation of the two nebulous stars , it would be interesting to have the evidence of any additional observations made at Parsonstown .
From Mr. Huggins 's observations of the nebulae in Orion , I gather that he has seen only the three usual lines ; with a wide slit , I had lately a very strong suspicion of a fourth line , probably G. I have not specially examined the nebulae since ; but probably Mr. Huggins will be able to give confirmatory evidence .
; On the night of February 1st we had a pretty brilliant , auroral display ; being at work at the time , I missed part of it ; but as soon as I became aware of its existence I applied the spectroscope .
At moments four lines already known were easily visible , the chief line being remarkably brilliant .
A much narrower slit than that used could have been borne at the time of maximum display , which , however , lasted only a few moments .
I liras intent on measuring the lines , as at the time I had no published definite information with reference to other than Angstrom 's special line ; but at moments light was seen at the red end of the spectrum sufficiently bright to leave a distinct impression of colour ; when , however , special attention was devoted to that part of the spectrum the aurora had greatly diminished in brilliancy , so that I was unable to make out whether a red line existed , or whether there was a general spectrum at the red end .
I incline to the latter opinion , and put it down to the rose-coloured arc ; this arc , however , which seemed pretty brilliant after the streamers had disappeared , did not then give a visible spectrum .
Probably this phenomenon has been ob-k served before to better purpose ; but I cannot find mention thereof in published accounts .
Yours truly , A. Le Sueur .

