]\gt ; [ 693 ] XXVI .
Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals ( continued from Phil. Trans. Vol. 146 .
Read Feb. 28 , \mdash ; Part of Stress on Magnetization .
Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. Ileceived and Read May 27 , 178 .
In Parts III .
and .
of my first series of papers under this title ( Transactions of the Royal Society for February 1856 ) , I described experiments .
effects of stress on the thermo-electric quality and the electric resistances of metals .
About the time those experiments were made I also made several nugatory attempts to discovcr the effects of stress on magnetization ; and eightecn years have passed before I have been able to lesume the ation .
Early in the year 1874 I made ements to experiment on the magnetization of iron and steel wires in two different ways\mdash ; one by observing the deflections of a suspended netic needle produced by the magnetization to be tested , the other by observing the throw of a galvanometer-needle , due to the momentary current induced by each sudden change of netism .
The second method , which for brevity I shall call the ballistic method , was invented by WEBER , and has been used with excellent effect by THAL , ROLAND , and others .
It has great in respect of convenience , and the ease with which accurate results may be obtained by it ; but it is not adapted to show slow chances of netism , and is therefore not fit for certain important parts of the investigation .
On this account I am ments for carrying out the first method , although hitherto I have obtained no good results by it .
179 .
On the other hand , I have found the ] istic method very easy and perfectly satisfactory in every respect , except that it does not show the slow changes of netization .
It was by it that all the results which I am now going to describe were obtained .
The apparatus , which is very simple , is represented in the sketch .
A is the wire whose netism is experimented on .
In my first experiments it was a piece of steel pianoforte-wire , No. 22* , , that is , .
about grammes per metre , and therefore of 7644 of a millimetre in diameter .
It is about 5 metres long , and its upper end is firmly fixed to a beam in the of the Physical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow , where all the experiments have been made .
To the lower end is attached a pan bearing , by means of which different amounts of pull may be rapidly applied and removed from the wire when desired .
Over a portion of this wire centimetres , there is Wl.apped *This is the wire nsed in tho American Navy and in British cable-ships for -sea .
Its strength to resist pull is such that it bears about rammcs ) , or the in air o kilo- metres ( or nautical miles ) of its own length .
a piece of thin sheet copper , and on the outside of that there is coiled , in two layers , centimetres of silk-covered copper wire , the copper weighing grammes per metre .
The inner layer contains 326 turns and the outer 321 .
The resistance of this coil when cool is 511 ohm .
Its ends are put in communication by thick electrodes with a reversing-key , , and a battery of three of my " " tray\ldquo ; DANIELLS .
The resistance of each of these cells is about06 of an ohm , giving for the whole battery a resistance ohm .
180 .
Over the coil is wound another coil centimetres long , which contains 538 centimetres of wire , No. 26 of the Birmingham wire-gauge , with 38 centimetres for electrodes .
This wire is also wound on in two layers , the inner containing 147 turns and the outer 146 .
The resistance of this induction-coil is ohm , and its weight per metre gramme .
181 .
The deflections of the galvanometer are read in my usual manner by the image of a fine wire fixed rertically close in front of the edge of a flat paraffine-or gas-flame .
The screen on which the image is thrown is a white paper scale , divided into fortieths of an ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF METALS .
inch , fixed at a distance of inches from the mirror .
The lamp is placed close behind the middle of the scale , and just enough below to allow its light to pass under the scale to the mirror through a small blackened tube .
The galvanometer used is represented in the accompanying sketch ( fig. 2 ) Having been extemporized from alarge Fig. 2 .
SIZE lecture-room instrument , it is not so well adapted for this investigation as I could wish .
It consists of an astatic pair of needles mounted on a light frame of luminium , and carrying a light placed on the frame , with its centre in the line of the suspension a little above the upper needle , and attached by means of clips , so as to admit of its being turned into and fixed in any position relatively to the frame .
The resistance of the galvanometer-coil is 634 ohm .
182 .
On commencing to experiment with this in lS74 , I imme- diately obtained some very startling and interesting results .
I found that when a current was kept flowing through the magnetizing coil , and were alternately placed on the pan at the lower end of the wire and taken off , the effect of the pull always diminished the magnetization , and the effect of removing the pull increased The magnetizing current being then stopped , and the same operation with the weights repeated , I found similar effects\mdash ; that is , the application of a pull diminished the residual magnetization , and the removal of the pull increased it .
But , to my surprise , the effect was greater in this second case when merely residual magnetism was concerned than in the case when the original magnetizing force was still in action .
This greater effect in the second case was surprising , because the whole magnetization concerned in the first case was greater than the magnetization concerned in the second case by the amount of the quasi-elastic magnetization , which goes and comes again every time the magnetizing force is removed and reapplied .
183 .
The amount of the magnetizing force used may be roughly estimated by taking the electromotive force of each of the three cells as one volt , or centimetre-grammesecond units .
Thus , as the Qtance in the circuit was about .
of an ohm , the strength of the current must have been about .
or .
Thiswas distributed in 647 turns of a solenoid whose axis was centimetres long .
The whole strength of current circulating round a length of the solenoid was therefore , and the magnetizing force to which the steel wire was subjected , or 123 .
Hence , as remarked by Professor MAXWELL , who , in reporting on this paper , first made the preceding estimate , we may call the magnetizing force a large one , so large , in fact , that it probably magnetizes the wire nearly to saturation at once .
For the sake of comparison it may be remarked that the horizontal and vertical components of the earth 's magnetic force at Glasgow are about .
; and in first experimenting with the apparatus now described , I made sure that the magnetization of the wire by the vertical component of the earth 's magnetizing force was not essentially concerned in any of the results , by reversing the magnetizing current , then applying and removing weights repeatedly , then stopping the current , and again putting weights on and off repeatedly .
The deflections of the galvanometer observed in this succession of operations were not sensibly different from those observed previously , but in reverse directions ; that is to say , the results still fulfilled the preceding statements .
The fact that the effect of pull to diminish magnetization and of taking off pull to increase it , was found to produce a greater difference when the netization was solely residual than when it was sustained by the continued influence of the magnetizingforce , led me to expect that the effect of making and breaking the cil.cuit of the magnetizing coil and battery should be greater for the wire when pulled than when unpulled .
Subsequent experiments proved this to be the case .
*Since the communication of this paper to the Royal Society I have found in WIBDENANN'S ' Galranismus , ' S499 , that similar results had been obtained by MATTEUCCI ( Annals de Chimie et de Physique , ' 1858 ) , and by VILLARI ( POGG .
'Annalen , ' 1868).\mdash ; [ Added May 1876 .
] ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF MEIALS .
184 .
But , lastly , I found between the quasi-elastic part of the magnetization produced by alternately applying and removing the netizing force , and the initial reverse magnetization produced by the application of a reverse .
force , very surprising difference .
The former , as stated above , is greater when the wire is pulled than when unpulled : the latter is less in the wire when pulled than when free from pull , but not by so great a difference ; and the whole effect of reversing the current suddenly must therefore be greater when the wire is pulled than when unpulled , and is found to be so .
185 .
The following series of experiments , I. . . . .
XXXI .
, performed in November and December 1874 , all on one and the same piece of steel wire , first confirmed the conclusions inferred from the preliminary investigation of the previous March , then reproduced with more regulality the immediate experimental results of that preliminary investigation , and lastly discovered the very remarkable phenomena described in 186 .
The general order of procedure followed was this .
The image on the scale of the ballistic galvanometer was watched by one observer , while a second stood by to make or break circuit of netizing current , or put on and off weights , on word of command from the first .
When the image is seen to be steady on the scale , the number at which it stands is read and recorded as " " \ldquo ; ( zero ) .
The order " " make\ldquo ; or " " break\ldquo ; or " " on\ldquo ; or " " off\ldquo ; is given by the first observer and executed suddenly by the second .
The first observer leads and records the greatest or least number on the scale reached by the image in consequence of the electromagnetic impulse produced by the operation .
Finally , the excess ( positive or negative ) of this reading above the immediately zero is wlitten down and marked " " \ldquo ; or " " or " " On\ldquo ; or " " Off as the case may be .
187 .
The connexions chanced to be so arranged that , with the direction of current invariably used in the " " \ldquo ; of Series I. . . . .
XXIX .
, the effect of was to throw the image to the left , or in the direction of decreasing numbers : thus until Series XXX .
negative number always shows inclease of magnetization in the direction of that produced by M. The numbers actually written down by the observers dul.ing the expeliments are shown in the following extracts from their day-book , for a few of the series , chosen as examples to precede the abridged Tables of results given for all the Series I. .
XXX .
December 2 , 1874 .
-41 ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF METALS .
December 7 , 1874 . .
On and OK Current flowing .
effects here observed were diminutions and augmentations of residual from prel ious operations .
188 .
Each series from I. to XXIX .
was conducted with perfect regularity on one or other of several plans , of which the details are sufficiently exemplified in the preceding unabridged quotations .
Omitting now the actual readings and taking merely the differences from the zeros , we have the following full statement of results showing the amount of the electromagnetic impulse produced by each operation .
[ ADDITION , May 1876.\mdash ; It must not be assumed that the apparent accumulations of magnetization shown in the last columns of the Tables I. . . . .
IX .
, or that the differences of demagnetizations and magnetizations shown at the foot of each of the Tables down to XVII .
, express correctly the whole changes of magnetization of the wire ; for , as remarked above , the ballistic method does not show slow changes of magnetization ; and there certainly were slow changes of magnetization not shown in my ballistic experiments ; because the algebraic sum of all the deflections observed day after day went on sometimes continually increasing and sometimes continually diminishing , when it was certain that there was no corresponding progressive accumulation of magnetization or of demagnetization .
Some of the experiments by the method of deflection promised in were performed in last July and August , soon after the communication of this paper , and gave very remarkable results , which were free from the objection of dropping out of account slow changes of magnetization .
They include effects of torsion as well as.of pull .
I intend to include a statement of them in a paper which I hope soon to be able to to the Royal Society .
] Series I. to IX.\mdash ; Magnetizing Current made and broken .
November 26 , 1875 . .
Weights off .
ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF METALS .
Series I.-IX .
( continued ) .
November 26 , 1875.\mdash ; II . .
on .
November 27 , 1875.\mdash ; III .
Weights off .
November 30 , 1875.\mdash ; IV .
56 lbs. on .
Series I.-IX .
( continued ) .
November 30 , 1875 . .
Weights off .
December 1st , 1875.\mdash ; VI . .
on .
December 1 , 1875.\mdash ; VII .
Weights off .
ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF IETALS .
Series I.-IX .
( continued ) .
December 2 , 1875.\mdash ; VIII . .
on .
December 2 , 1875.\mdash ; IX . .
on .
Series X.-XVII.\mdash ; Weights on and off .
ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF IsIETALS .
Series X.-XVII.\mdash ; Weights on and off ( continued ) .
Series XVIII .
, XIX .
, XX Series XXI .
, XXII .
, XXIII.\mdash ; Cycles On , , Off , B. ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALITIES OF METALS .
Series XXIV .
, XXV .
, XXV I.\mdash ; Cycles , On , Off , B. Series XXVII .
, XXVIII .
, XXIX .
Cycles ( again the same as those of XVIII .
, XIX .
, XX .
) , On , , Off .
SIR WILLIAM THOMSON ON THE 189 .
Series XXX .
and XXXI .
were irregular .
After putting on and off weights several times , and finding as before diminutions and augmentations of residual magnetism , a weight of .
was left on the wire , and the magnetizing circuit was made with current in the same direction as before ; then an additional .
on and off : the current once more made and broken , still in same direction ; then circuit made in reverse direction , and broken ; lastly , .
additional put on and taken off .
The results were as follows , being now used to denote institution of current in one final direction , and in the opposite direction .
Latter part of Series XXX .
December 22 , 1875.\mdash ; 281bs .
permanently hung on wire .
" " On\ldquo ; and ' ' off\ldquo ; means another weight of .
put on and taken off .
Series XXXI .
December 22 , 1875.\mdash ; Weight of .
hung perman.ently on the wire .
On\ldquo ; and ' off\ldquo ; a weight of .
hung on in addition and taken off .
immediately after .
quickly .
On Off On Off On Off -10 Then immediately , without waiting for image coming to rest , On Off On On 190 .
Interpretation of Series XXX .
with help from Series XXXI.\mdash ; From each and following subtract and add respectively , or , say , for induction of coil on coil measured in last two experiments of Series XXXI .
Therefore ELECTRODYNAISIIC QUALITIES OF METALS .
the of Series XXX .
gave 22 of increase to the netization of the steel wire which had remained for six days undisturbed as left at the end of Series XXIX .
After an " " on\ldquo ; and ' ' off\ldquo ; of the current was stopped , and the magnetism of the wire instantly fell .
A second gave 8 of increase to the magnetization , while the current was continued , of which 6 was instantly lost when the current was stopped a minute or two after .
Then without other disturbance produced l of demagnetization and revelse netization , of which 5 was lost when the current was stopped a minute or two after , more in the set of six ons and offs which followed .
The residual leverse gnetization must may judge from subsequent results of Series XXX .
and XXXI .
) have been approximatcly equal to the immediately previous residual netization remaining from all the preyious and other operations to which the wire had been subjected from the time in ovember when it was set up for the experiments .
from 161 we find for the number measuring the from the ious \mdash ; netization to the equal magnetization in the wire at the present stage of its history .
amount of this netization is , say 75 .
With this amount of magnetization in the vire , and constantly on it , the effect of putting on and off another lbs. is to diminish and increase the netism by 6 ; that is to say , to diminish it and incl.case it by about of its mean value ( which , according to these esCimates , is 73 of our arbitlary scale ) .
The remainder of Series XXX .
speaks ibly for itself .
191 .
Interpretation of Series XXXI.\mdash ; The first on gave a diminution 20 in the magnetization , the second ; the first on and the off , on , off on the whole a diminution of , that is to say , shook out of the 75 of the residual netism remaining from Series XXX .
The effect of lepcated ons and ofls on the ) of remaining magnetism would doubt have shaken but little more out , and would have caused alternate diminutions and augmcntations of about 12 ; that is to with .
hung on , in addition to the constant lbs. , the nctization of the wire would have been 53 , and with only the .
it would have been G5 .
The on , off , and which actually followed , added to the gnetization , and so brought it up to about , more than it had at the beginning of Series XXXI .
The subsequent and probably produced little , if any , further in the residual magnetization ; and the on , off , on which followed confirmed the previous result of augmentation 12 and diminution 12 , alternately by off and on , after something considerable shaken out permanently by the first on .
The off , on , ofl after with current still flowing gave about 10 instead of the 12 reviously the current was not flowing .
These in kind and what to be expected from Series .
and , considering that ' .
on\ldquo ; and ' off\ldquo ; in those series was on and off with nothing , only very steadying kept always on ) , now the " " on\ldquo ; and " " off\ldquo ; means change from .
to ) .
and back .
192 .
Interpretation of Series XXXI .
continued.\mdash ; Taking now the effects of Ms and *Another weight of ] on ) wire .
Bs , and subtracting 20 from each number , we see that the effect on the magnetization of the wire producible by repeating and over and over again without other disturbance would be about 16 each way with .
on , and probably between and 9 with .
on .
( This agrees in kind with the conclusion deducible from the compalison between the previous Series II .
and VI .
; but the absolute magnitudes of the results seem smallel , probably because of battery-power in those series than in Series XXXI .
) The whole effects of the after and , and of the after and , were still , as in Series XXX .
, each equal to 1180 or 181 , with only the .
on , and therefore ( subtracting 20 for the induction from coil to coil ) we had160 , say , for the sum of the demagnetization and reverse magnetization produced by a following a and a previous of the opposite direction .
Now came , in the course of a few minutes , a most startling discovery .
With the .
on , the sum of magnetization and demagnetization produced by the after from previous opposite was 130 , or less by with those than with the .
Thus we see that while the neti c effect of stopping the current is greater , the effect of subsequently instituting the current in the reverse direction is less , with the heavy than with the light weight ; and less by about three times as great a difference .
193 .
Consider , lastly , the effect of a sudden reversal of the culrent .
This may be regarded as the sum of the effects of stopping it , and starting it in the reverse direction ; and therefore may be expected to be less with the .
than with the .
by about of the difference between the effects of starting the reverse current with the heavy and with the light weights hung on the wire .
This inference is verified in the concluding thirteen results of the series before removal of the steel wire .
Thus subtracting 40 for the induction of coil on coil in the reversal , we find 140 , , 141 , 136 , 140 , 139 , 139 for magnetic effects of reversals with .
hung on the wire , of which the mean is ; and 159 , 158 , 159 , 160 , 160 , 160 , for the magnetic effects of reversals with 28 lbs. on , of which the mean is 194 .
After the conclusion of these experiments on the steel wire , I made many experiments of the same kind on soft-iron wires of various qualities substituted for it in the same apparatus , and I have obtained results of the same kind , as to the effects of on and off weights , while the magnetizing current is kept flowing .
I have also obtained some very remarkable and perplexing results by putting weights on and off with the current not flowing .
In one of the ir.on wires the effect found was opposite to that in steel ; that is to say , putting on weight augmented and taking off weight diminished the residual magnetism ; in another the same effect as in steel was found , that is , putting on diminished and taking off augmented the residual magnetism .
Neither of these was as soft as some of the other wires tried , and the one bright soft iron wire ) that agreed with steel was remarked on at the time as much , than another that had been previously experimented on black soft iron wire JOHNSTONE'S ) .
This latter seemed utterly destitute of retentive power under the influence of putting the weights on and off .
Like all the others it always experienced a diminution ELECTRODYNAMIC QUALIIIES OF METALS .
of magnetism by weights on and increase by weights off , when the magnetizing current was flowing .
But when the current was stopped large effects ( larger than those when the current was flowing ) were produced by putting on and taking off the weights ; and these effects were always of the same kind , whichever had been the direction of the current .
195 .
I have not yet been able to explain these effects by terrestrial magnetic force* , nor to even guess any other possible cause ; and have in fact , since the of December last , been exceedingly perplexed by seeming anomalies which the various soft-iron wires tried have presented , commencing that day with a leversal of the netic effect of the " " off\ldquo ; and ' ' on which the first of the wires experimented on showed after the magnetizing current had been made for the first time and broken , and a weight of put on and off several times had first shaken out nearly one third of the residual magnetism , and then given altelnate augmentation by\ldquo ; on\ldquo ; and diminution by " " off\ldquo ; of the netism that remained .
A weight of .
was then hung on , and it strctched the wire permanently by about 8 per cent. of its length .
Then immediately I found revelse effects by putting.off and on and off the , and on and off smaller weights\mdash ; the " " on\ldquo ; iving diminution and the " " off\ldquo ; augmentation of what would have been the residual magnetism , if residual magnetism thele was , from the magnetization by the current .
quality remained until an hour or two later , when the current was once more made in the same direction as the first , and broken again .
Then .
put on actually gave augmentation of the residual magnetism ( instead of shaking out a considerable quantity as the first " " on\ldquo ; after the first " " \ldquo ; had done ) , and the offs , ons , and offs following gave alternate diminution ( by the offs ) and augmentation ( by the ons ) ; that is to say , the effects were the same in kind as the effects which had been observed before the stretching by the .
; but they were nearly times as great in amount as they had been then , with the same weight of .
on and off .
Thenceforth the same piece of wire ( expcrimented on several more days up till Jan. 12 , 1875 ) and other pieces of similar wire tried after it , with the current made sometimes in one ection and sometimes in the other , and broken , and different amounts of weight up to 28 lbs. put on and off , always showed increase of the residual magnetism by the " " on\ldquo ; and diminution by the " " off Even the first " " on\ldquo ; after the of the current gave always an increase of the magnetism ; but when the weight was as much as .
the " " shaking out\ldquo ; tendency was remarkably shown by the by the first " " on\ldquo ; being much less than the diminution by the first " " off 196 .
The soft-iron wire experimented on on the of December gave , with hanging on it , smaller effects of successive ' makes in one direction , and breaks of the current ; a greater effect when it was made in the reverse ection ; and a smaller sum added January \mdash ; Nearly six months I asccrtained that these startlingly great effccts actually were due to the vertical component earth 's force , this was only about -u5 tizing force of the currcnts used .
of these two effects ( that is to say , a smaller effect ) on the reversal of the current than when it was un-pulled .
197 .
The investigation is being continued with special arrangements to discover the explanation of the seeming anomalies described above , and with the further object of determining in absolute measure the amounts of all the ascertained effects , at different temperatures up to 10 Cent. It is needless to give in the mean time any minute details of the experiments already made on the soft-iron wires by which the resnlts now described obtained .
ABSTRACT OF THE PRECEDING PAPER .
WEBER'S method , by aid of etic induction and a " " ballistic galvanometer\ldquo ; to measure it , which has been practised with so much success by THALEN , ROLAND , and others , has been used in the investigation of which the results are at present communicated ; but ial trials have been made by the direct magnetometric method ( deflections of a needle ) , and this method is kept in view for testing slow changes of zation which the electromagnetic method fails to detect .
The metals experimented on have been steel pianoforte-wire , of the kind used for deep-sea soundings by the American Navy and British cable-ships ; and soft-iron wires of about the same gauge , but of sevel.al different qualities . .
The steel wire about lbs. per nautical mile , and bears .
Weights of from .
to .
were on it and taken off , and results described shortl as follows were found:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The magnetization is diminished by hanging on weights , and increased by taking the weights off , when the netizino current is kept flowing .
( 2 ) The residual magnetism remaining after the current is stopped is also diminished by hanging on the weights , and increased by taking them off .
( 3 ) The absolute amount of the difference of magnetization produced by putting on or taking off weights is greater with the mere residual netism when the current is stopped than with the whole netism when the magnetizing current is kept flowing .
( 4 ) The changes of magnetization produced by making the magnetizing current in one direction and stopping it are greater with the weights on than off .
( 5 ) After the .
current has been made in either direction and stopped , the effect of making it in the reverse direction is less with the weights on than off .
( 6 ) The difference announced in ( 5 ) is a much greater'difference than that in the posite direction between the effects of stopping the current with weights on and off , announced in ( 4 ) .
( 7 ) When the current is suddenly reversed , the netic effect is less with the weights on than with the off .
ELECTRODYNAMIC TIES OF METALS .
II .
Soft-Iron Wires .
Wires of about the same gauge as the steel were used , but , except one of them , bore only about .
instead of 230 .
All of three or four kinds tried agreed with the steel in ( 1 ) .
The first tried behaved ( except a seeming anomaly , hitherto umexplained ) in the reverse manner to steel in respect to ( 2 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) , and ( 6 ) ; it reed with the steel in respect to ( 7 ) .
Another iron wire* , which , though called ' ' soft was much less soft than the first , reed with steel in respect to ( l ) and ( 2 ) , but [ differing from steel in respect to ( 3 ) ] showed greater effects of weights on and off when the magnetizing current was flowing than when it was stopped .
Other soft-iron wires which were very soft , softer even than the first , agreed with all the steel and iron wires in respect to ( 1 ) , but gave results when tested for ( 2 ) which proved an exceedingly transient character of the residual magnetism , and were otherwise seemingly anomalous .
The investigation is being continued with special ements to find the explanation of these apparent anomalies , and with the further object of ascel t in absolute measure the amounts of all the proved effects at different temperatures up to 10 Cent. [ POSTSCRIPT , Jan. 1877.\mdash ; The proposed continuation of the investigation is still on .
A part of it ( of which an abstract , communicated to the Royal Society at its ordinaly meeting after the communication of the preceding papel , has been published in the 'Proceedings ' for June 1875 ) completely plains the " " anomalies\ldquo ; of , 195 , above .
] * It was tested nctically with htso up to lbs. .
brokc , , wlrcn .
were on .

