A paper was read , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electri ?
city : " Eighteenth Series ; by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Section 25 .
On the Electricity evolved by the Friction of Water and Steam against other bodies .
The object of the experiments related in this paper , is to trace the source of the electricity which accompanies the issue of steam of high pressure from the vessels in which it is contained .
By means of a suitable apparatus , which the author describes and delineates , he found that electricity is never excited by the passage of pure steam , and is manifested only when water is at the same time present ; and hence he concludes that it is altogether the effect of the friction of globules of water against the sides of the opening , or against the substances opposed to its passage , as the water is rapidly moved onwards by the current of steam .
Accordingly it was found to be increased in quantity by increasing the pressure and impelling force of the steam .
The immediate effect of this friction was , in all cases , to render the steam or water positive , and the solids , of whatever nature they might be , negative .
In certain circumstances , however , as when a wire is placed in the current of steam at some distance from the orifice whence it has issued , the solid exhibits the positive electricity already acquired by the steam , and of which it is then merely the recipient and the conductor .
In like manner , the results may be greatly modified by the shape , the nature , and the temperature of the passages through which the steam is forced .
Heat , by preventing the condensation of the steam into water , likewise prevents the evolution of electricity , which again speedily appears by cooling the passages so as to restore the water which is necessary for the production of that effect .
The phenomenon of the evolution of electricity in these circumstances is dependent also on the quality of the fluid in motion , more especially in relation to its conducting power .
WTater will not excite electricity unless it be pure ; the addition to it of any soluble salt or acid , even in minute quantity , is sufficient to destroy this property .
The addition of oil of turpentine , on the other hand , occasions the development of electricity of an opposite kind to that which is excited by water ; and this the author explains by the particles or minute globules of the water having each received a coat ?
ing of oil in the form of a thin film , so that the friction takes place only between that external film and the solids , along the surface of which the globules are carried .
A similar , but a more permanent effect is produced by the presence of olive oil , which is not , like oil of turpentine , subject to rapid dissipation .
Similar results were obtained when a stream of compressed air was substituted for steam in these experiments .
When moisture was present , the solid exhibited negative , and the stream of air po ?
sitive electricity ; but when the air was perfectly dry , no electricity of any kind was apparent .
The author concludes with an account of some experiments in which dry powders of various kinds were placed in the current of air ; the results diflered according to the nature of the substances employed , and other circumstances .

