I. " Note on the Variations of Density produced by Heat in Mineral Substances .
" By Dr. T. L. PIIIPSON , F.C.S. , &amp;c. Communicated by Professor TYNDALL .
Received April 16 , 1864 .
That any mineral substance , whether crystallized or not , should diminish in density by the action of heat might be looked upon as a natural consequence of dilatation being produced in every case and becoming permanent .
Such diminution of density occurs with idocrase , Labradorite , felspar , quartz , amphibole , pyroxene , peridote , Samarskite , porcelain , and glass .
But Gadolinite , zircons , and yellow obsidians augment in density from the same cause .
This again may be explained by assuming that under the influence of a powerful heat these substances undergo some permanent molecular change .
But in this Note I have to show that this molecular change is not permanent but intermittent , at least as regards the species I have examined , and probably with all the others .
Such researches , while tending to elucidate certaini points of chemical geology , may likewise add something to our presenit knowledge of the modes of action of heat .
My experiments were undertaken to prove an interesting fact announced formerly by Magnus , namely , that specimens of idocrase after fusion had diminished considerably in density without undergoing any change of composition : before fusion their specific gravity ranged from 3 349 to 3 45 , and after fusioni only 2-93 to 2 945 .
I-Taving lately received specimens of this and other minerals brought frolml Vesuvius in January last by my friend Henry Rutter , Esq. , I determined upon repeating this experiment of Magnus .
I found , first , that what he stated for idocrase and for a specimen of reddish-brown garnet was also the case with the whole family of garnets as well as the minerals of the idocrase group ; secondly , that it is not necessary to melt the minerals : it is sufficient that they should be heated to redness without fusion , in order to occasion this change of density ; thirdly , that the diminished density thus produced by the action of a red heat is not a permanent state , but that the specimens , in the course of a month or less , resume their original specific gravities .
These curious results were first obtained by me with a species of lime garnet , in small yellowish crystals , exceedingly brilliant and resinous , almost granular , fusing with difficulty to a black enamel , accompanied with very little leucite and traces of grossular , and crystallized in the second system .
Specimens weighing some grammes had their specific gravity taken with great care , and by the method described by me in the ' Chemical News ' for 1862 .
They were then perfectly dried and exposed for about a quarter of an hour to a bright red heat .
When the whole substance of the specimen was observed to have attained this temperature , without trace of fusion , it was allowed to cool , and when it had arrived at the temperature of the atmosphere , its specific gravity was again taken by the same method as before .
The diminution of density being noted , the specimens were carefully dried , enveloped in several folds of filtering paper , and put aside in a box along with other minerals .
In the course of a month it occurred to me that it would be interesting to take the specific gravity again , in order to ascertain whether it had not returned to its original figure , when , to my surprise , I found that each specimen had effectively iniereased in density and had attained its former specific gravity .
Thus : Lime garnet ( from Vesuvius ) .
Density after being heated Density determined in red-hot for a quarter of aii a month after the Original density .
hour and allowed to cool .
experiments .
I. 3-345 ... . .
2-978 .
3344 II .
3 350 .
2980 .
3350 III .
3 349 .
2-977 3.345 The same experiments were made with several other minerals belonging to the idocrase and garnet familv , and always with similar resuLlts .
Now I ask , what becomes of the heat that seems to be thus shut up in a mineral substance for the space of a month ?
The substance of the mineral is dilated , the distance between its molecules is enlarged , but these molecules slowly approach each other again , and in the course of some weeks resume their original positions .
What induces the change ?
or how does it happen that the original specific gravity is not acquired immediately the substance has cooled ?
* Will the same phenomenon show itself with other families of minerals or with the metallic elements ?
Somae minerals like euclase , that become electric by heat , retain that state fora Such are the points which I propose to examine in the next place ; ia the mean time the observations I have just alluded to are a proof that bodies can absorb a certain amount of heat not indicated by the thermometer ( which becomes latent ) , and that this is effected without the body undergoing a change of state ; secondly , that they slowly part with this heat again until they have acquired their original densities ; thirdly , so many different substances being affected by a change of density when melted or simply heated to redness and allowed to cool , it is probable this property will be found to belong , more or less , to all substances without exception .

