IV .
" On the Stability of Loose Earth .
" By W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE , Esq. , C.E. , F.R.SS .
L &amp; E. , Regius Professor of Civil Engineering and Mechanics in the University of Glasgow .
( Abstract .
) The object of this paper is to deduce the mathematical theory of that kind of stability which depends on the mutual friction of the parts of a granular mass devoid of tenacity , from the known laws of friction , unaided by any hypothesis .
The fundamental principle of the internal stability of such a mass has already been published in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for the 6th of March , 1856 , viz. that the ratio of the difference to the sum of the greatest and least pressures at each point of the mass must not exceed the sine of the angle of repose .
The principles of the general theory of the internal equilibrium of a solid mass are expressed in a form suited to the special subject of the paper .
For the purpose of determining the conditions of equilibrium under its own weight , of a solid mass whose upper surface is that generated by the motion of a horizontal straight line along a line of any figure described on a vertical plane at right angles to the generating line , the mass is supposed to be divided into layers of equal horizontal thrust by a series of surfaces , which layers are subdivided into elementary horizontal prisms by vertical planes normal to the vertical plane first mentioned .
For independent variables there are taken the horizontal coordinate in this plane , and the total horizontal thrust from the upper surface down to a given surface of equal thrust .
The condition of equilibrium of any one of the before-mentioned elementary prisms being expressed by a differential equation in terms of those variables , the integration of that equation gives the vertical coordinate of any surface of equal thrust in terms of the total thrust down to that surface and of the horizontal coordinate .
The integral obtained belongs to a class first investigated by Fourier .
An approximation to the forms of the surfaces of equal thrust is obtained by a simple graphic process , first employed by Prof. William Thomson in connexion with the theory of electricity .
It is shown incidentally how the same integral may be applied to determine the intrados from the extrados of any arched rib , loaded only with its own weight .
The pressure on a surface of equal thrust is vertical ; the pressure on a vertical plane at a given point is parallel to the surface of equal thrust traversing that point .
When the upper surface of the mass of earth is one plane , horizontal or inclined , the surfaces of equal thrust are planes parallel to it .
When the upper surface presents elevations and depressions , the surfaces of equal thrust have corresponding elevations and depressions , gradually vanishing as the depth increases .
The principles of the paper are applied to the determination of the pressure of earth against walls , and the power of earth to sustain buildings .
The weight of the building which a horizontal bed of earth will sustain , exceeds the weight of the earth displaced by the foundation , in a ratio which is a function of the angle of repose .

