Some Researches on Flame .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read January 16 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 45 .
] This communication is subdivided into four sections , of which the first treats of the effect of rarefactions of the air , by diminished pressure , upon flame , and explosion .
An inflamed jet of hydrogen was placed in the receiver of an air-pump , and the flame was observed to enlarge during exhaustion , till the gauge indicated a pressure of one fourth or one fifth ; it then diminished in size , but was not extinguished till the pressure was reduced to between one seventh and one eighth .
A somewhat larger jet burned until the rarefaction amounted to one tenth , and rendered the glass tube whence the gas issued white hot .
To this circumstance the author refers the long-continued combustion of the gas , and thinks the conclusion confirmed by the following experiment .
A platinum wire was coiled round the jet tube , so as to reach into and above the flame , and it became white hot during the exhaustion , and continued red hot even when the pressure was only one tenth .
The lower part of the flame was now extinguished , but the upper part in the contact of the wire continued to burn till the pressure was reduced to one thirteenth .
The flame , therefore , of hydrogen is extinguished in rarefied atmospheres , whenever the heat it produces is insufficient to communicate visible redness to platinum wire .
SirHumphry Davy was thus led to infer , that those combustibles which require least heat for combustion would burn in rarer atmospheres than those requiring more heat ; and that bodies which produce much heat in combustion would burn in rarer air than those producing little heat , and experiments are detailed proving this to be the case : thus , an inflamed jet of light carburetted hydrogen , which produces little heat in combustion , and requires a high temperature for its ignition , was extinguished whenever the pressure was below one fourth , even though the tube was furnished with a wire .
Carbonic oxide burned under a pressure of one sixth ; sulphuretted hydrogen of one seventh .
Sulphur , which burns at a lower temperature than any other ordinary combustible , except phosphorus , had its flame maintained in an atmosphere rarefied 15 times , and phosphuretted hydrogen was inflamed when admitted into the best vacuum of an excellent air-pump .
The author next proceeds to consider the influence of rarefaction , produced by heat , upon combustion and explosion .
A volume of air at 2120 is expanded to 2-25 volumes .
At a dull red heat its probable temperature then is 10320 , provided it expand equably for equal increments of heat .
M. Grotthus has concluded that expansion by heat destroys the explosive powers of gases , but Sir H. Davy found that two parts of oxygen and one of hydrogen expanded to 2-5 , its original bulk , detonated at a red heat , and in another experiment , even at a lower temperature ; whence it appears , that detonating gaseous mixtures have their inflammability rather increased than diminished , by expansion by heat .
In prosecuting these inquiries , the author discovered that a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen produced water at a temperature below visible redness , and without explosion or even any luminous appearance ; and at a temperature a little above the boiling point of quicksilver , charcoal converts oxygen into carbonic acid without any of the ordinary phenomenon of combustion .
The third section relates to the effect of the mixture of different gases upon explosion and combustion .
When 1 part of a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen , in the proportions that form water , is mixed with 8 parts of pure hydrogen , the electric spark does not inflame the mixture ; and its combustion is similarly prevented by 9 parts of oxygen , 11 of nitrous oxide , 1 of carburetted hydrogen , 2 of sulphuretted hydrogen , 05 of olefiant gas , 2 of muriatic acid gas , and five sixths of silicated fluoric acid gas .
It therefore appears that other causes , besides density and capacity for heat , interfered in these phenomena ; for nitrous oxide , which is one third denser than oxygen , and which has a greater capacity for heat , has lower powers of preventing explosion ; and hydrogen , though fifteen times lighter than oxygen , has a higher power of preventing explosion ; and olefiant gas , in this respect , precedes the others in an infinitely higher ratio than could have been expected either from its density or capacity .
The author concludes this paper with some general observations , and practical inferences founded upon the previous detail of facts .
Flame may be regarded as gaseous matter , of a temperature above that which is capable of giving to solids a white heat ; for heated air , though not luminous , will communicate that high temperature to solid bodies .
When we attempt to pass flame through fine wire gauze , the metal so far cools the gaseous matter that it is no longer luminous .
The power of metallic and other tissues to prevent the combustion of explosive gaseous mixtures , will depend upon the heat required for their combustion , as compared with that acquired by the tissue ; and the flame of those bodies which are most readily inflammable , and of those which produce most heat in combustion , will pass through a wire gauze capable of intercepting those flames that produce little heat ; so that the flames of different substances will pass through wire gauze at different temperatures .
For instance , a tissue that has 100 apertures in the square inch will intercept the fame of alcohol , but not that of hydrogen ; and a tissue which would not intercept an explosion from olefiant gas , would prevent it with fire-damp .
The combustibility of different gases is , to a certain extent , in direct proportion to the masses of heated matter required to inflame them .
A red-hot wire , one fortieth of an inch in diameter , will not ignite olefiant gas , but it will inflame hydrogen gas ; and the same wire heated white-hot , will inflame olefiant gas , but will not inflame the carburetted hydrogen of the coal-mines , which fortunately is the least combustible of the inflammable gases .
The cooling power of metal , in regard to flame , is well shown by encircling a very small flame with a cold iron wire , which instantly causes its extinction .
The interruption of the flame , therefore , in the author 's safety-lamp , depends upon no recondite cause , but is simply referable to the cooling power of the wire-work tissue .
From the facts contained in the first part of this paper , the author conceives that the light of meteors depends not upon the ignition of inflammable gases , but upon that of solid bodies ; that such is their velocity of motion , las to excite sufficient heat for their ignition by the compression even of rare air ; and that the phenomena of falling stars may be explained by regarding them as small incombustible bodies moving round the earth in very excentric orbits , and becoming ignited only when they pass with immense rapidity through the upper regions of the atmosphere ; while those meteors which throw down stony bodies , are similarly circumstanced , combustible masses .

