professor h. m. ward on the action of light on BACTERIA .
973 I .fl turned out to be the case , and scrutiny of the plate after being incubated for I 48 hours shows an image ( fig. 14 ) , in the form of graduated clearer areas corre-ding with the parts on which the active rays fell .
i fig. 15 the spectral photograph is marked with vertical lines showing the limits e chief colours , * these lines rising from a horizontal one showing the length of the le spectrum , and of the exposed slot .
^ginning at the left-hand , it is clear that the infra-red , the red , orange , and lW are absolutely without effect , for the spores which were exposed to these rays germinated out as well as anywhere on the non-exposed parts of the film .
It 50 seen that at least the less refrangible half of the green is without effect , and action commences somewhere towards the limit between the green and the \#151 ; that is between the Fraunhofer 's lines E and F\#151 ; and increases in intensity as \#187 ; ass up the blue towards the violet , as shown by the relative clearness of the area which the spores have been killed .
issing into the violet itself , we find the action soon becomes feebler , as shown by ) and more spores having germinated out , and ceases about halfway along the \#187 ; le violet .
In this solar spectrum there is no perceptible effect in the more mgible half of the violet , or in the ultra-violet region beyond , the area most cleared of spores is not far from the Fraunhofer s line Gr .
efore discussing further the exact limits of action , and the region of maximum st , I must say a few words about the method of marking the plates .
i the first place , it must be remembered that I cannot touch the film when once e , and covered with its quartz-plate : every possible precaution has to be taken , no foreign spores are allowed to invade and contaminate the agar , consequently lines limiting the various coloured regions of the visible spectrum have to be un by hand , with a pencil , on the paper at the margins of the exposed slot-shaped i , and are therefore some millimetres distant from the surface of the film itself , secondly , it is , as is well known , far from easy to place a pencil point accurately the limiting line dividing the green from the blue , and when we come to examine spectra of the electric arc it will be seen that I have possibly shifted the line a Le too much to the left in fig. 15 .
-he danger of this error is not obviated by the further procedure in marking these \gt ; s. When the plate is removed previous to incubation , I remove the coverings n the back glass\#151 ; i.e. , the glass on which the transparent spore-laden agar-film i\#151 ; and mark as accurately as possible , with Indian ink , the lines corresponding to \gt ; se drawn on the quartz-plate in front ; this , of course , without shifting the ative positions of the two plates , and avoiding errors of parallax as much as I can .
rhen I gum a thin strip of white paper on to the outside of this bottom glass ite , and continue the Indian ink lines on to it , and indicate with letters .
This done , the quartz-plate can be removed and a properly sterilised glass lid * N.B.\#151 ; These vertical lines are not the Fraunhofer 's lines .
substituted , the Indian-ink removed from the glass , and the plate incubated f marking of the negative taken from this is then done by super-position a-measuring off with compasses .
Fig. 14 .
Fig. 15 .
Agar plate of spores of B. antJiracis , exposed to the action of the solar spectrum for 5 hot a August 16th ( 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. ) .
The spectrum was very bright , and nearly , though not quite , The photographs show the condition of the plate after 24 hours ' incubation at 25 0 .
Jig- 14 , S#1 the appearance of tb e film .
Fig. 15 , the same with the limits of the various regions of the visible spe*wi marked on it ( R the red , G the green , B the blue , V the violet ) .
The base line , a-6 , shows the of the slot through which the spectrum shone on the plate .
Mn All parts of the agar plate not exposed are rendered evenly opaque by the colonies germinate0\#174 ; from the spores .
Similarly the spores in the infra-red , red , orange-yellow are unhurt , as are t \lt ; fit the other end of the violet . .
The action of the light begins in the green-blue , and attains its maximum in the blue-violet , no \gt ; Fraunhofer 's line G. It must be confessed that there are several dangers of not getting these to " !
lines quite accurate , but I have not been able to devise a way out of this di 41P PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
975 there is another source of possible error to mentioned .
I cannot do away k certain degree of internal reflection from the inner surfaces of the glass and -plates , and it is quite possible that a slight amount of over-lapping of the occurs at the boundaries .
We shall see that with long exposures to the very e electric-arc spectrum , this internal reflection becomes very marked indeed , ally , although I used as narrow a slit as possible , in working with the solar-um I had to open it to at least 1 millim. , and it is not improbable that this , a slight shifting of the effect towards the red .
n certainly of opinion that in fig. 14 the action appears to extend further into even than is really the case , and that this is due to one or more of the causes sd to , and especially to the fact that the spectrum was not quite pure .
Experiments with the Light of the Electric-arc .
er a number of abortive attempts* to obtain results by exposing plates to the of the spectrum obtained by decomposing the light from a powerful electric by passing the beam through a glass or carbon-bisulphide prism and ordinary , I was fortunate enough to enlist the interest and co-operation of Professor 3R Lodge , and it is to his cordial and sympathetic aid , in having my plates ed to the spectrum in his laboratory , that I owe the remarkable success now Led .
5 began by exposing different parts of an ordinary agar-plate culture of the 3 of Bacillus anthracis , for different periods to the undecomposed light of the , mp .
The plates were prepared by me , exactly as if I were going to expose to the solar light , as in my experiments described on p. 972 .
They were then :\gt ; ff to Professor Lodge , who placed them at a distance of about two feet from a whose nature and working were as described on p. 981 .
3 found at once that when the electric-light from such a lamp was employed , it red a much longer exposure for the rays , passing through glass , to act on the \gt ; s , than when the same plates were exposed to the solar light of a bright day , in the winter or early spring .
ms , an exposure of two to eight hours produced very little appreciable effect on \gt ; s which showed perfectly clear results after three hours ' exposure to the sun on uary 28 ; and even an exposure for ten to twelve hours to the electric light was bss effective than that to three hours ' sunlight on the above date , n exactly similar plate exposed to the arc-light from six to twelve hours , however , give positive results in those parts to which the light had access for more than t hours ; but even where the illumination lasted for twelve hours , the effect was I Have to thank Dr. Woodhead and Dr. Cartwright Wood , of the combined laboratories , for me try their lantern , and also my colleagues Professor Stocker and Mr. Shields , for exposing a 3 f'r me ; unfortunately the results of these attempts were negative .
[ DCCOXOIV.\#151 ; B. 6 I only transient\#151 ; by far the majority of the spores were only slightly retarded scarcely affected at all , for they germinated out later and covered the exposed are as well as those not exposed .
In the above experiments the electric light traversed the relatively thick glassf the Petri's-dish .
In the following experiment the film was protected by a thick ple of quartz over which a thin plate of glass was laid .
Five circular openings were 4 in the black paper covering the quartz , and one of these openings was covered * after 1 hour 's exposure , a second after 2 hours , another after 3 , another after 5 a the last after 8 hours ' exposure .
Nevertheless , even with the longest exposure tte Fig. 16 .
Anthrax spores in agar exposed to the electric light , passing through glass .
The centre circle sow the effect of 8 hours ' exposure ; that to the left , 5 hours ' ; that to the right , 3 hours ' .
Plate incmt\#174 ; nearly two days at 22 ' C. ; on further incubation all the areas disappeared , as two have already d\#169 ; l the present case .
light-effect was very slight , and the numerous spores still alive rapidly covered film thickly where exposed .
We , therefore , for the future employed quartz only , not only for the condense !
\lt ; the lantern , but also to cover the films , and have since always done so\#151 ; in shon^ found that even the thinnest plate of glass is so obstinate a barrier to the baa cidal rays that it is not permissible to use it.* This is readily seen from the results of succeeding experiments .
The plates themselves , also , had to be so prepared that , instead of the light tra\#174 ; 1 ing the glass of the Petri-dish , it must traverse a quartz-plate placed over thedi This was arranged as follows .
* That the highly refrangible rays of the electric arc are absorbed by glass was shown by Sir G\#174 ; Stokes , in 1853 .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
977 s p]a\#163 ; e ig prepared as usual , by the melted agar ( B , fig. 17 ) , infected with spores , poured , at 50 ' C. , and allowed to set as a thin transparent film on the bottom aterilized glass Petri-dish , A. en properly set and cool , the glass lid of the Petri-dish is removed and replaced .late of clear quartz ( C ) , cut flat and polished , and , of course , sterilized by heat , s held in position by sterilized gummed slips .
Then the whole is wrapped r in sterilized dead black paper , D , followed by tinfoil , F , and an outer wrapping te cartridge paper , G. n the suitable windows are cut through the three wrappings , as shown in i at E , and the plate is ready for exposure .
ensure success with these plates several precautions are necessary in order to against certain dangers .
Some of these precautions are those needed for all dates , others are peculiar to the circumstances of this special case .
Fig. 17 .
E F G D EC iulture of spores of Bacillus anthracis , devised for exposure to the light of the electric arc .
A is e glass Petri-dish , in which the agar film B is confined .
G is a plate of clear quartz , so arranged to serve as a lid to the glass dish .
DD , dead black paper , enveloping the whole , except where it through , at EE , which are openings exposing the quartz-plate ( and the underlying film ) to the jht .
Over the black paper comes tinfoil , FF , and a wrapper of thick white paper , GG .
the first place , good sharp results can only be obtained if the spores are vigorous )roperly distributed in the agar film .
If too many , some spores shade the others the action of the rays passing through the windows , and a faint figure only is ned , and rapidly obliterated by the subsequent germination of the protected s ; if too few , the contrast between the exposed and unexposed areas is not \gt ; enough .
condly , the agar film , on cooling , is apt to exude so much water that the ensed fluid accumulating between the glass and the film causes the separation slipping of the latter as soon as the plate is tilted .
I found the best way of enting this is to pour the agar , at about 50 ' C. , into the glass dish when the \gt ; erature of the latter is about 40 ' C. , having cooled to that from a high tempera\gt ; and so to arrange matters that the lid of the dish\#151 ; or the quartz-plate should tbout 10 ' to 15 ' C. cooler than the bottom , and then to allow the whole to cool he ordinary temperature very slowly .
This ensures that the glass bottom is ectly dry , and that the condensation of the moisture from the cooling film shall occur chiefly op the lid .
In some cases it was even necessary to put sterile paper between the lid and the dish , to absorb the large quantities of moisture .
Ia| .
found it advisable to employ agar tubes kept some time , until the greater part oft !
water had evaporated from them .
By these means the agar-film remains in conta with the glass , and does not slip afterwards .
Thirdly , a special objection takes its source in the necessarily appreciable spa , between the surface of the agar-film and the inner surface of the quartz-plate .
IV found that unless the rays of light fall perfectly vertical on the agar-film , we are | to get blurred images ; and even when they are nearly vertical , so much reflection { the rays results from their striking , first the glass bottom of the dish ( through t transparent agar ) , and then the black-backed polished quartz-plate , that second^ effects are produced traceable to the action of these internally reflected rays .
In most cases I reduced this danger to a minimum by using dishes as shallows possible ; but in special instances it was necessary to use sterilised dead black pat on the internal face of the quartz .
The principal objection to this latter device , h(-ever , consists in the danger of the moisture of condensation so damping this bltk paper as to render it limp and loose , and make it fall down on to the agar .
These , then , are some of the principal troubles , and causes of failures which hac\#187 ; be contended with .
But there are others , and when one reflects how difficult it h.o successfully overcome all the obstacles simultaneously in the case of any particn^ plate , it can hardly be matter of surprise that these experiments have consul much time , and often resulted in disappointing failures .
One of the worst troubles was the tendency of the spores to germinate en under the influence of the rising temperature as the weather got warmer , or inw laboratory in Liverpool .
This had to be met by icing the plates , packing them in^ and keeping them on a metal ice-box during exposure .
But this led to jw .
difficulties , for since the plate must be packed off so as to be exposed as soous possible after making , the rapid cooling of the film leads to rapid and copious m traction and condensation of exuded moisture , thus exaggerating the very dange 1 have been discussing .
Over and over again I have had the plates returned m S\#187 ; damp condition that the film has slipped , spores have been washed from the unexp\#174 ; parts on to the exposed ones , and a troublesome and careful experiment , which ai occupied much time on the part both of Professor Lodge and myself , came to nothg Not the least of the great obligations I am under to Professor Lodge is due patience and willingness to repeat such experiments for me .
^ wjl A plate , fig. 18 , prepared as above , and with five circular windows , was e p to the undecomposed light from the arc lamp , on March 21 so that the wind- marked A to E , were blocked out with tin fed , as follows : K after ou ?
] , B , after 4 hours ' ; C , after 6 hours ' ; D , after 5 hours ' , and E , after 2 hours - ^ plate arrived hack on March 22 , and was puWnto the incubator at .
that date .
The temperature of incubation was 25 ' C , professor h. m. ward on the action of light on BACTERIA .
979 Fig. 18 .
FiS- 19- .
77 hours ' incubation .
igs .
18\#151 ; 20 .
Agar plates of anthrax spores , covered with quartz , on which five circular windows were 3sed to the arc light on March 21 .
The windows are A , to the left above ; B , to the right above ; the central one ; D , to the left below ; E , to the right below .
A = 3 hours ' exposure .
B \#151 ; 4 " , , C = 6 " " D = 5 " E = 2 " " he culture-plate was photographed from the front , i.e. , as exposed , with black paper behind .
All circles are just visible , after 19 hours ' incubation , at 25 ' C. At 9 A.M. , on March 23 , the plate was photographed , with the result shown , fig. A very faint* circular image of each window was becoming visible , and in two fiour later differences could be detected between the various circles as regards distinctness After a further day 's incubation the five circular areas were each perfectly sharp , a shown in fig. 19 , and differences were still more observable .
After yet another da the plate was at its best , or , strictly speaking , a little past its best , as seen in fig. % On comparing the figures we notice that the relative sharpness depends on hoi far each circular area is cleared of spores capable of germinating .
As a matter of fa all five areas on the third day had some spores still living on them , but it wt evident that the two top ones , A and B , had fewer than the two bottom one D and E , and even than the centre one C\#151 ; facts brought out more clearly in fl photographs than in the reproductions .
If each area had an equal number of spores on it to begin with , we should expe the order of clearness , i.e. , the sharpness of the figure , to be in the order of length | exposure .
C was exposed 6 hours , D only 5 hours , whence C should be clear than D. Now in the figure this is not the case .
But it the case the day befoi and the only reason that C is not now the clearer is because a large number of spor have germinated on the area C , and are rendering it somewhat obscure .
As a matter of fact , the order of clearness of the areas was just what we shod expect in Stage III .
The " ghosts " or faint secondary circles on this plate are not easy to explain . .
thought they were due to internal reflection , but it is not improbable that they we due to the plate having received a jolt during an advanced stage of exposure , ai the angle of the incident rays to the surface of the agar having been thereby altere .
This experiment shows , then , that 6 hours ' exposure to the rays of the electric a , transmitted vid quartz , results in the death of an enormous number of spores , andfc is very probable that only such spores escaped on D and C as were directly behd ( and therefore screened by ) a number of others .
The film was a dense one , and contingencies were certain to arise .
It may be regarded as extremely probable , ttt had every spore been equally exposed to the rays , an exposure of 6 hours wo* have been quite sufficient to kill every one .
, , * It may be regarded as demonstrated , therefore , that exposure to the light oia powerful electric arc , provided the rays are not kept back by a glass or other scre\#187 ; opaque to the more refrangible rays , results in effects similar to those obtained i exposure to strong sunshine ; and I venture to throw out the suggestion that one the most effective methods of disinfection of hospital wards , cattle sheds , rad f trucks , \amp ; c. , may be found to be practicable along these lines .
This , oo , observed , is quite independent of our knowledge of the modus bactericidal rays on the spores or bacilli .
I mean , it is immaterial impractice whet ^ght rays act on the contents of the spores , \amp ; c ; , or by liberating some vola , * Too sharp in the reproduction .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
981 which , diffuses into and poisons the protoplasm , since my experiments with [ films of spores show that so long as the right rays reach the spores they are 1 by a few hours ' illumination .
I have already given the evidence which leads e conclusion that the bactericidal action is direct on the spore contents , moreover , only put the above proposition in that form to meet any possible objection on \#187 ; art of those who refuse to regard that evidence as conclusive .
However , I shall t to this matter when discussing the question of the action of the various rays of pectrum , to which I now turn .
e now proceeded to expose plates , prepared substantially as above , to the rays of rc-lamp , decomposed by means of a quartz prism so as to form a spectrum , ber several attempts , and some disheartening failures , due to one or other of the s already referred to , the following arrangement was resorted to :\#151 ; The Petri-with its film , as in fig. 17 , was covered with a thin glass plate , in which one or dots , about half an inch wide and two and a half to three inches long , were cut igh .
Then the quartz plate was put over this , with black paper , pierced in dance with the slots , between .
Everything else was as before , e lamp and quartz train were arranged as follows :\#151 ; Fig. 21 .
B P agram of the arrangement for directing the spectrum of the electric arc on the prepared film of agar with spcwes or bacilli in it .
= the electric arc light , passing through the quartz condensing lenses ( 4^ in .
diam. ) at B. C , the B , quartz focussing lens , which directs the beam on to the quartz prism , E. F , the spectrum , g vertically on the quartz plate of the Petri-dish , G , which lies in an iced box .
Distance from B = 4| in .
; from B to G \#151 ; 7^ in .
; from Cto D = 6^ in .
; from D to 9 in .
; and from in .
now proceed to the analysis of one of the most satisfactory and instructive spectra electric light yet obtained .
he plate was made on August 2 , and exposed for 12 hours to a very pure spectrum August 3 , 1893 .
The film of anthrax-spores in agar , was covered by a glass-plate h two slots in it , and dead black paper over all parts of this glass except the 'ced slots .
Over these slots a thin quartz-plate was secured , and , before exposure , ery thin sheet of good glass was placed over the upper slot .
Consequently the spectrum had to traverse a thin sheet of glass before reaching that part of the agu film which lay under the upper slot , while that part under the lower slot received % spectral rays through thin quartz only .
The exposed plate was placed in the incubator at 22 ' C. , at 6 p.m. on August !
and was incubated in all four complete days : it was removed at intervals to* photographed , the camera being so arranged that the image falling on the photograph plate was exactly the size of the original .
The incubated plate to be photograph was so placed that daylight from a north window , after traversing a screen of o\gt ; 4 white tissue-paper , passed through it from back to front ; consequently the photogroh represents the view from the front of the plate , as one would see it on looking to the Petri-dish .
The quartz plate was removed for photographing , after a stancrd copy of the lines dividing the various colours of the spectrum had been made ad fitted to the plate .
After 40 hours incubation , i.e. , at 10 a.m. on August 6 , this plate showed , two Try distinct , though , as yet , faint , clearer areas , corresponding to those parts of the Im which lay beneath the two slots , as shown in fig. 1 , Plate 87 .
In fig. 2 , Plate 87 , I have shown by means of vertical lines the subdivisions of fese areas into the various parts of the spectrum .
In each case the exact length of the slot , and therefore of the portion beneatbhe visible and invisible parts of the spectrum , is marked by the distance A-B .
The line C indicates the beginning of the visible red of the spectrum : consecpidly the area to the left is the infra-red .
Between D and E are the orange and yeow regions .
E to F includes the green ; F to G is the blue ; and G to H thevible violet .
To the right of H is the ultra-violet , of course invisible .
Several facts are obvious at a glance .
In the first place the bactericidal eecfe begins almost exactly on the boundary between the green and the blue , f.e. , att -line F in the photograph* and , in the lower spectrum , extends right away into e ultra-violet .
In the upper spectrum this extension of the effect into the ultra-u is much curtailed , owing to the opacity of the glass for these rays .
Secondly , the maximum effect , as seen by the widening ou o e a ec e is just beyond the violet .
I have already pointed out that I explain this widemg due to the action of the most potent reflected rays bemg still powerful enou^ iTclear from the first that the infra-red , red , orange-yellow , and f\lt ; certain as the incubation proceeded .
F , Plate 87 , shows the plate after 64 hours , and fig. 4 , after 88 hours .
It is o s\#174 ; " ^ the bactericidal action at the margins in the region 'f \#153 ; jX\#153 ; \#153 ; Vhe Xape ofthelot partial , and the spectrum consequently takes on more and more the shape tn * It will , Of course be noticed that these are not the Fua-ds Hues , but the boundaries the visible and other regions .
reea :uu professor h. m. ward on the action of LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
983 0 or three boss-like protuberances on the lower margin of the lower spectrum , 1 in the ultra-violet , are expressions of the shading action of some drops of t-balsam\#151 ; used for cementing the quartz-plate over the slots , and browned by iring sterilization\#151 ; which projected beyond the edge of the slot in the glass They are particularly evident in fig. 4 , and there also we see that the sidal action is not complete at the right hand end of the ultra-violet ; though , e slot been longer , it is pretty evident that the partial action would have ed further .
Nor is the action complete at the line F , for we see many spores v germinating there .
i in the most perfectly clear areas , also , there are still a few spores alive , as is \gt ; re evident in fig. 5 ( 112 hours ) , and fig. 6 ( 136 hours ) .
This , I explain , as an odd spore here and there being so completely sheltered behind others , that s have not reached them , or only to a feeble extent , and consequently they ate out later , and develop isolated colonies .
This is particularly well seen in There is nothing surprising in this latter fact when we reflect how many s of spores were present over the illuminated area ; and it is at the same time dlent reply to those who would regard the agar as in any way rendered an ible pabulum for the spores to germinate on , by the chemical action of the light The action of light on other Bacteria , Yeasts , Fungi , b light , as a whole , exerts a similar destructive effect on bacteria other than \hracis , follows from the researches of most of the previous observers , # from es and Blunt onwards ; but , with the exception of Buchner , t their methods en to all the criticisms already given .
Nevertheless , putting aside all attempts mtitative results , and overlooking their contradictory statements as regards " ays are active , we cannot avoid the conclusion that light exerts some destruction on Typhoid ( Janowsky and Buchner ) , B. coli-commune ( Buchner ) , 'veral non-pathogenic forms of Bacillus and Micrococcus ( Duclatjx , Gaillard , ser , Kotljar , and others ) .
itradictory statements occur , however\#151 ; c.g. , Lubbert^ says light has no action zphylococcus pyogenes aureus , whereas ChmelewskyS concludes that it has .
fving|| and LaurentIF have shown that light has , at any rate , some action on ee my previous papers and the Reports to the Water-Research Committee for the earlier are .
V- ffe,1892 .
-)er Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus und der Osteomyeletes ' Wurtzburg , 1886 , p. 14 .
3entr .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1892 , vol. 12 , p. 174 .
itudien ii .
d. Einwirkung des Lichtes auf die Pilze , ' 1890 .
Ann. de l'lnst .
Pasteur .
, ' 1888 .
XX3CXCIV.\#151 ; B. 6 K moulds , and I have given a resume of the other references in the literature el where , * tending to the same end , as well as of my own experiments .
I now add the results of some experiments which go to show that this injuvh action of light is probably common to all the lower forms of vegetable life whatey and even to all living protoplasm , although , as I showed in the paper referred to , ^ action may be warded off in ordinary cases in nature by means of natural coloi3c[ screens .
Pringsheim 's experiments on algal cellst may , I think , be taken in evidence tote same end , though it has been the custom to somewhat overlook their import^ partly on account of his extreme hypothetical ideas , and partly because he used set intense light focussed on the cells .
The investigations of botanists , showing the inhibitory action of light on growth , !
also come under the same head , and , judging from the little I have learnt of the aeon \lt ; of the blue-violet rays on animal cells , J there seems reason to conclude that the aeon is universal on living protoplasm .
Mr. Norman Lockyer has told me of the damaging effect\#151 ; expressed insympms reminding one of snow-blindness and sun-burn\#151 ; of working with the unguardedre-light , and it is not improbable that much more evidence to the same end coutbe gathered .
S ^ imM The degree of injury will , of course , be different in different cases , and the injuous action of the blue-violet rays in specific cases is by no means contradictory of instates where their general effect is for good.|| The following experiments were made with a remarkable violet bacillus fe\amp ; cthe Thames , the deep violet pigment of which is rapidly destroyed by light , thoug its solution withstands evaporation to dryness over a water-bath without any tra\#171 ; o mJOif March 31 , a bright clear day , the agar-plate was exposed for two hots-12 noon to 2 p.m.\#151 ; with no screen and over a mirror .
A stencil N was placed ver the only exposed part of the plate .
The accompanying figure shows the condition of the plate at 9 A.M. , on P " i.e " after 43 hours ' incubation at 20 ' 0 .
, showing clearly that this bacillus sensitive to sunlight .
* 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , * vol. 53 , 1893 , pp. 37 , 38 .
I 6,1889 , PP .
312-368 .
Siemens ( 'Boy .
Soc. Pro , , ' 187*\#153 ; , in a German electric light works , where the medical men traced the irritation suffered by th|| 40 w\gt ; \gt ; mh Mr. Galton first drew my attentio^^*^ ' i| As erpresse , ^ ^ ^ employed on 80me parts of the Continent , and to " " on has been kindly directed by a member of the Camera Club , I cannot give any oprnio PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
985 Fig. 22 .
ilar results , but showing differences which suggest differences in sensitiveness\#151 ; .
ii I reserve any definite expression of opinion as to what that means at present\#151 ; been obtained with several other Thames bacteria , e.g. , B. s , a pink Bacterium ( probably B. prodigiosus ) , and some others , and with the acillus , the potato Bacillus , and others .
i following illustrates the action on a yeast .
The form used was Saccharomyccs rme , the yeast of the " ginger-beer plant .
" It was exposed for about 8 hours in reflected light , not very bright , on February 7th and 8th .
An excellent graph was obtained , showing the condition of the plate after 48 hours ' incubation \gt ; C. filar results have been got with other yeasts , and with The chief diffiwith these oidiciand fungi is to get the spores properly distributed in the and , since their spores and mycelia are so large and relatively coarse , the photo-is are not so sharp and clear as are those got with bacteria .
t I have also results with screens and with the spectrum , which show that the ralization as to light-action being universal on all lower organisms ( and no doubt ving cells ) is not unwarranted .
her photographs show the effect of the solar spectrum on a plate of the violet ilus already referred to .
It was exposed for 2 hours on August 25th , and i for 2 hours on August 26th , neither of them very good days for the work } still the spectrum had very decided effects .
The plate was incubated 24 houis* milar spectra have been got with B. subtle B. B. , and ^ others .
I reserve the discussion of their peculiarities for the present , merely irking that they agree generally with what has been said .
These results with yeasts and fungi are interesting in connection with a recent publication by 1'inaud ( ' Comptes Rend .
, ' CX1II .
, No. 22 , p. 782 ) , who finds that direct exposure of grapes to the hills the two common fermentation yeasts normally met with on their sui faces .
I am at present concerned with an attempt to photograph the electric spectra simultaneously on two species of bacteria on the same plate .
Unfortunately there delay , owing to an accident to the electric instalment , kindly put at my disposal said , by Professor Lodge ; and it seems better to defer the discussion of what resu1 are already to hand .
For the sake of any who may be inclined to carry on this work , however , I appe the following description of the plates I am employing:\#151 ; / Fig. 23 .
A is an ordinary Petri-dish of glass .
B is a partition of talc , so arranged that m partially split into two flanges , shown in section at C. I cement the flanges tone glass bottom of the dish with Oanada balsam , and sterilize the whole .
1 hen J equal agar-films , each charged with a different organism , into each of the two hats of the plate .
The plate is then covered with a glass plate , D , in which two slots* cut , each slot so arranged that it lies over the middle of each half-film .
Th^pM plate then goes over the slot , and the sterilization wrapping and exposure , \amp ; c , re made as described on p. 977 .
.jH There are difficulties in manipulation , but I find they can be overcome ; and already the results promise to be worth the trouble .
Of course the main object ito compare the effects of the .spectra on the two organisms under like conditions .
[ 961 ] XX .
The Action of Light on Bacteria.\#151 ; III .
f H. Marshall Ward , I).Sc .
, P.jR .
S. , Professor of Botany , Cooper 's Hill .
Received and Read , December 14 , 1893 .
[ Plate 87 .
] 2S and Blunt , # the first who observed the destructive action of light on a , had already raised the question as to which of the various rays of the im are active , and they made some experiments with coloured screens .
The bjection to all their results is that they did not use pure 'cultures .
Arloing , + sky , | Geisler , S and Kotljar|| employed pure tube cultures\#151 ; broth , gelatine , ito\#151 ; and exposed them behind various screens , endeavouring to judge of the of the light by the relative rapidity with which the broth becomes turbid , or sh the masses of colonies spread over the surface of the solid media , \amp ; c. chief objection to these methods is that it is very difficult to compare and it two separate culture-tubes of this kind , though it should be noticed that rSKY employed a very ingenious expedient for ensuring at least that his broth 's should be exactly similar to start with .
b the light of the electric arc also acts bactericidally was first shown , I believe , tboiNGlT in 1887 , and has been more closely studied by Geisler## and LiEWSKY , tt but in addition to the criticism already made on their methods , they to obtain the most satisfactory results , owing to their use of glass instead irtz .
s same criticisms apply to various attempts made by these observers to estimate fects of different regions of the spectrum by putting their separate tubes into * * * S ** * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1877 and 1878 .
t ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1885 .
+ ' Centr .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1890 .
S ' Centr .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1892 .
|| Wratsch , 1892 ( abstract in 'Centr .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1892 ) .
' Comptes Rendus , ' 1887 .
** ' Op. cit. , ' 1892 .
ft ' Centr .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1892 .
9.2.95 9(52 PROFESSOR H. M. WARD 0N THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA the various regions .
Moreover , the conclusion reached by these different observers to which rays are efficacious and which not differ .
Akloing failed to distingui which rays are the more effective ; and Janowsky concluded that the red rays well as the blue-violet , are more effective than the yellow ones .
Santori* conelud that neither the red nor the violet rays are the active ones .
GaillardI conelud that all the rays of the spectrum are active .
During the past year I have made a large series of screen experiments by allow !
the light of the sun to fall on circumscribed areasj on Agar-plates arranged in varn ways and covered by the screens of which the action is to be compared .
The follows are only a few of those I propose to publish in a more detailed form subsequently .
In order to render more intelligible the explanations I have to offer for some of j phenomena to be described , it may be well to examine somewhat closely the behavj of one of these plates during the growth of the colonies which result from the urj posed , or only partly exposed , germs , while incubation is going on .
The following series of photographs were taken from a plate exposed to direct br sunlight for 3 hours , on March 2 from 12.15 to 3.15 p.m. , and covered wi : stencil letter Y* After about 18 hours ' incubation at 20-22 ' C. it is generally possible to make the dim but blurred outlines of the letter , but the contrast between the clearer ; corresponding to the letter and the as yet only slightly more opaque parts of Agar protected from the sun\#151 ; slight , because the colonies have not yet had tm develop far enough to render these parts opaque\#151 ; is , as yet , too slight to enable to photograph the letter .
After 24 to 30 hours , however , a photograph can usually be taken .
Fig. 1 taken after 24 hours , and we see that the letter is not yet quite sharp at thi j and appears too large .
This phenomenon is apparently due to the rays reflect\#169 ; \lt ; |b the plate being still powerful enough to slow , but not to totally prevent the gem tion and development of the spores at the edges .
The next figure ( fig* 2 ) shows the letter sharp and clear after 24 houis^jjjw incubation , time having now been given for these marginal colonies to develop on Now comes in the second phenomenon I wish to call attention to .
After a ff 24 hours ' ( fig. 3 ) incubation we notice small colonies on the otherwise cleared of the letter becoming more and more conspicuous .
These colonies weie^ all present in the earlier figure , and I explain them as developed from germs which * Quoted by Geisler , loc. cit. f * ThSse de Lvon , ' No. 396 .
t The credit of first publishing the application of the principle of determining the ig _ incubating an agar-plate partly exposed to the sun and partly sheltered rom i is ( ' Centr .
f. Bakt .
, ' 1892 ) , but I had not only long employed this method , but had P before seeing Buchner 's paper .
So far as I know no one but myself has used coloured combination with this method .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF RIGHT ON BACTERIA , 963 Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
FiS- 4 ' 72 hours ' incubation .
96 hours incubation .
igs .
1-4 , An agar-plate of anthrax spores exposed behind a stencil-plate Y Irom 12.15 to 3.15 p.ui .
March 27 , and then incubated at 20-22 ' C. and photographed at intervals .
The photographs were en as transparencies , against a N. window .
The two crescentic clear areas are due to the agar-film completely covering the plate in this case .
964 PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTErJI escaped the action of the light .
How ?
There are several possible explanati ( 1 ) The light was not sufficiently intense , or did not act long enough , to kill spores more resistant than the majority ; ( 2 ) The spores from which these colo^ originate were so deeply submerged that the oxidising action set up by the pu could not take place freely ; ( 3 ) These submerged spores lay so exactly behind I number of other spores that the latter partially screen them from the light .
If it were not for the fact that these spores clo eventually germinate out freely anj thus show that the agar is still a fit medium for their growth , it might also |J suggested ( 4 ) that these spores have escaped suffusion by some poisonous substano developed in the medium ; but I have given such excellent evidence of other kina against this position that I cannot accept it as probable .
On the whole , the most rational explanation seems to be the third\#151 ; these lati developing colonies are from spores partly screened by others , living or dead , whij intervened between them and the incident rays .
The following series of photographs illustrates at the same time the comparati action of certain glass screens , and some phenomena already met with when incubatii the plates .
\#171 ; ?
The plate , a large glass one , was covered by a square cardboard screen , in whil five circular holes were pierced .
The corresponding five circular areas are visit in fig. 5 .
The central hole was covered with a piece of ordinary window glass , that to t\gt ; right above was left uncovered ; consequently the light through the latter traversl only the glass of the plate , that through the former passed through two plates J glass .
The hole to the left above was covered with a piece of deep blue glass ; tl| to the right below with a piece of pale blue glass , and that to the left below with piece of a peculiar brownish-purple glass which cut off much of the blue and viol rays\#151 ; all the others let most of the blue-violet pass readily .
The plate thus screened was exposed to direct bright sunshine on April 5th , fri 11 a.m. to 2.30 p.m.\#151 ; i.e. , 3-|- hours , and was then put into the incubator at 20 ' C\#187 ; l After 18^ hours'incubation the photograph fig. 5 was taken , showing that so light action was evident on all the circular areas , As incubation proceeded itbecai evident that ( l ) the action was unequal on the various areas , ( 2 ) that it was lei !
intense on the area covered by the brown-purple glass , and most intense on that ll uncovered , ( 3 ) that a peculiar halation effect is visible at first , rendering the outlie blurred , but disappears later , and the circles become sharp and clear , and ( 4 ) that n all the germs on the areas are killed , for a few colonies appear later ( after three J four days ) even on the clearest area .
( Cf .
the sequence of the photographs .
) The peculiar halation effect I explain as follows .
The light which enters t circular areas is partially reflected from the surfaces inside the plate , and even th !
reflected rays are powerful enough to inhibit the growth of the1 colonies at 1* PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON " THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
965 Fig. 5. .
- .
- ' Fig. 6 .
42 hours'incubation .
4 days'incubation .
js .
5-8 , Plate of agar , with anthrax spores , covered by a square screen with five circular windows coloured glasses ( see p. 964 ) , and exposed for hours on April 5th , and photographed as trans* cies at various stages of incubation as indicated .
margins for a short time ; later on , however , these colonies also develop out normal !
and so sharpen up the edges .
The appearance at a later date of colonies on the apparently cleared areas , I take to be due to the partial protection of some of the spores by others lying serially ove them in the line of the incident rays of light , and so screening them more or W from these rays .
Even this protection does not prevent the light from slowing tb development of these germs , however , though they are able to develop later on .
These phenomena afford additional proof that the action of the light is direct , at that the agar on the illuminated areas is not rendered unfit for the development the colonies .
What precedes , will have made intelligible some of the difficulties to he encounter* in attempting to discover what may be called the quantitative results of the exposur to sunshine .
It occurred to me , however , that more might be done if different par of the same plate were exposed simultaneously behind different screens .
To carry out this idea still further , I made a number of double ebonite cells aft the following pattern .
A solid block of ebonite , about S inch thick , 3 inches lor and 2 inches broad , is cut into the shape of a Roman capital E , and a plate of goo , thin , flat , clear glass cemented to each side as in fig. 9 .
I obtained an excellent gh Fig- .
9 .
from Messrs. Chance , of Birmingham , for this purpose , and after trying many ki of cement , found that , on the whole , gold-size held the best , if the cemented cei placed in a hot oven for a short time , and then , allowed to cool under a weig* whenever one of these cells took to leaking , it was easy to repeat this heating I pressing and make it water-tight again .
Of the two compartments into which tl| cells are thus divided , I filled one with filtered distilled water , and used it ?
standard ; the other was filled with some other solution , and by not allowing j* level to be the same in the two cells , it was easy to ensure that no leakage occur-from one compartment into the other during the experiment .
PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
967 Fig. 10 .
19 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 11 .
43 hours ' incubation .
Fig. 12 .
Ill hours ' incubation .
10-12 .
Exposed 12-4 , March 30 .
B = behind cesculin ; C = behind water , screens equal thickness .
OCCCXCIY.--B .
It should be borne in mind that the depth of water , or watery solution to k traversed , was here considerably more than in previous experiments , a fact significance where such a solution as ammoniacal CuS04 was employed ; the im of the bright sun was scarcely visible through such a screen , whereas the eye coul not bear the light traversing the corresponding screen of K. bichromate .
The following series , one of a large number of such comparative experiments wi serve very well to illustrate the value of this method of examination .
( Figs. 10-12 The photographs are those of a plate exposed for 4 hours \#151 ; from 12 noon to 4 p\gt ; M , on March 80 , to the direct rays of a bright sun .
The plate was covered with tv stencil letters , B and C ; the B behind a strong solution of sesculin , in water , the behind pure water only .
After 19 hours ' incubation the difference in the light-action is already evider The rays passing through the water were so strong , as not only to clear the area the C , but to produce the marked blurring effects already explained , whereas the passing through the sesculin , being poor in violet and blue-violet rays , have or partially cleared the B-shaped area , and the reflected ones had not enough power produce any conspicuous blurring .
After 5 hours ' further incubation the blurring at t edges of the C is already diminishing , but the interval is too short for more mark developments .
After 43 hours ( fig. 11 ) , however , we notice very great progre Not only is the contrast much more pronounced , but the C is evidently ve effectually cleared ; whereas there are so many spores on the B which have escaj the light action , that their developing colonies are rapidly obscuring the led This is still more evident after 111 hours ' incubation .
Later on the B was oblitera ; altogether , and only two small colonies had escaped on the C. The marked effect through the water is unquestionably due to the difference the quality of the blue-violet light which has traversed the screen , and not to i difference in the heating effects , for in this respect the screens are equal , as ei offers the same thickness of water and glass to the light .
I have evidence , deduced from experiments with alum and with rock-salt crysi used as screens , however , which goes .to show that other things being equal , i access of more heat rays enhances the light effect\#151 ; indeed , we should expect tl on almost any hypothesis as to the modus operandi of the rays on the cells .
The following Table summarises at a glance the data and results of a numb\#169 ; these comparative screen experiments : \#151 ; J I Number , \amp ; c. , denoting plate .
Letter or figure used .
Date made .
Nature of screen .
Date exposed .
Time of exposure .
When put to incubate .
Period of incubation at 25 ' C. TT a B Mar. 10 Alum Mar. 10 1.30 to 4 P.M. ) 7 d. 3.30 p.m. Mar. 10 II.6 .
C 99 Water 99 99 99 99 8 a B Mar. 13 Water Mar. 13 1.45 to 4.30 p.m. , 4 d. 4.15 p.m. Mar. 13 8.6 .
C 99 Quinine 99 99 99 99 13 ( 1 ) .
0 Mar. 17 * Glass and Mar. 17 1.45 to 4.30 p.m. , 8 d. glass 4 P.M. Mar. 17 13(2 ) .
0 * 99 99 99 99 , 99 13 ( 3 ) .
0 99 t 99 99 99 99 13 ( 4 ) .
0 99 Quinine 99 99 99 99 13(5 ) .
0 99 Water 99 99 99 99 14.a .
H Mar. 18 CuS04Am Mar. 18 1 to 4.30 p.m. , 95 P.M. Mar. 18 14.6 .
N ' 99 Water 99 99 99 99 A.l. K Mar. 21 Water Mar. 21 11.30 to 3 P.M. , 6 d. 3 P.M. Mar. 21 A.2 .
Z 99 ^Fsculin 99 99 99 99 ( strong ) I.a. H Mar. 24 Quinine Mar. 25 10.30 to 4 P.M. , 3.30 p.m. Mar. 25 1.6 .
N 99 Water 99 99 99 Il.a .
C 99 I iEsculin 99 99 99 ( strong ) II.6 .
B 99 Water 99 99 59 J Time letter , \amp ; c. , visible .
20 h. 20 h. 40 h. 40 k 40| b. Results .
Remarks .
I The C was sharper and | cleaner than the B Good hot sun and bine sky , therefore alnm may be taken to stop a little of the action ?
The B just visible , but C J never appeared Least clear of all at first , then clearest As 13 ( 5 ) at first , then = second clearest A mere blurred area ''I Clearest and sharpest at f first , finally least so Less cleared at first than* ) | 13 ( 4 ) .
Finally = third J clearest ( _ 1 1ST more cleared than H , bnt f \gt ; both have some colonies \lt ; J at last [ _ No distinct letters , only clear areas , roughly in-4 outline of letters Hazy and cloudy , especially after first hour , hence little blue ; therefore quinine inactive , because too feeble to get through * The screen here was the two glass faces of the cell , with f in .
air-space between f This window was partly covered by liquids and partly open Bright bine sky alternating with large silvery clouds : high wind , cool .
The areas exposed were 5 circular holes \ in .
diameter Very bright clear sun , but air cool .
H sharper than N at first , but on 21st reversed Very hot bright sun and blue sky .
Over exposed , and internally reflected rays cleared beyond edges of letters Negative { The inhibition and destruction may have been caused by heating too much when pouring the plates P PROFESSOR- H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
969 Experiments with Double-celled Thick Screens ( continued ) . . .
r Number , \amp ; c. denoting plate .
Letter or figure used .
Date made .
Nature of screen .
Date exposed .
Time of exposure .
When put to incubate .
, Period of incubation at 25 ' C. Time letter , \amp ; c. , visible .
Results .
Remarks .
X.a. X. 6 .
XI .
l. XI.2 .
a.l. a. 2 .
13.1 .
/ 3.2 .
7\#171 ; 1 .
7.2 .
3.1 .
3.2 .
Ill.a .
IH.b .
H N B C T X E W B C M Z P N 1 Mar. 27 99 99 99 99 .
99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 Quinine Water ./ Esculin ( strong ) Water K. bichromate Water K.chromate ( dilute ) Water Dilute fuchsin Water Strong AmCuSO^ Water Quinine HSsculin Mar. 27 99 99 99 9 9 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 12-3 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 3 P.M. , Mar. 27 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 4 d. 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 18 h. 18 h. 26 h. 18 h. 18 h. 18 h. 18 h. 18 h. 18 h. 18 h. 18 h. 26 h. 26 h. The N far sharper and f 1 clearer than H , and J ( former very nearly cleared | J on 29th L " 1 The C was seen as a clear 1 square patch at 18th h. , ( but not out clear till 26th , J when B was obliterating ~j No trace of T. The X \gt ; came out normally and J clear - ] A very faint ghost of B f 1 appeared , , and slowly J ( obliterated after 26 h. j J W sharp and clear t 1 The C far sharper than the f j B after 24 hours \ *J The M came out sharper \gt ; than the Z at first : then J both clear " 1 Both letters come out , but \ the P decidedly the J sharper Very hot sun , hazy first hour , then brilliant .
The H gradually obliterated The chromate was in dilute solution , and allowed a considerable amount of blue to pass The dilute fuchsin allowed a large amount of violet to pass J PROFESSOR H. M. WARD ON THE ACTION OF LIGHT ON BACTERIA .
971 1 evident , from the foregoing experiments that , for Bacillus anthracis in agar , L rate3 the bactericidal action of the various rays of the spectrum is in the [ range , yellow , and true green .
It begins somewhere near the line F , and ds right on into the violet ; whether it goes further\#151 ; into the ultra-violet\#151 ; not be determined by these experiments , since the glass and water-screens are sible barriers to what little ultra-violet there is in the light employed .
3 question next arises : where is the maximum effect ?
I made a special series aparative exposures with the following solutions to try and determine this point , ave here to record my sincere thanks to Sir Gabriel Stokes for the trouble he in giving me valuable information , and suggestions on the matter of choice of icals .
3 solutions employed were msculin , sulphate of quinine , K. chromate , picric acid , plene blue in picric acid , and Prussian blue in oxalic acid , and a solution of 3.\#151 ; this latter kindly prepared for me by Professor McLeod , to whom I also hanks for several suggestions and much information .
e general results were that ( 1 ) in layers of the same thickness , both water and miacal cupric sulphate allow more effective rays to pass , with equal exposures , any of the other solutions .
( 2 .
) All the blue-violet rays are effective to some it , for even methylene blue in- picric acid and picnc \#166 ; acid alone allow some e rays to pass , and these can only be the blue-green , and there is considerable n behind sesoulin , which cuts off all the violet and some blue ( Table , p. 969 ) .
The action is stronger through quinine sulphate and sesculin , especially the er , which cut off the violet end , than through K. .
chromate or any of the ions which cut off* the intense blue near the line G. \gt ; nsequently the bactericidal maximum appears to be somewhere in the neigh-hood of the line G , and , as will be shown later , this is fully confirmed by iriments with the spectrum .
have already stated that some preliminary attempts to obtain a record of the m of the various parts of the spectrum direct on the plates , were made during winter of 1892 .
The spectra tried were those of the sun and of the electric arc , the results were not decisive , beyond convincing me that the solar spectrum does on the plates , and that the blue end shows more effect than the red end .
Beyond the matter seemed discouraging , and at one time I thought I should have to ndon the attempt to obtain records sharp enough to photograph , have since , however , obtained much better results , and now proceed to describe ft\#169 ; experiments .
I do not propose to catalogue all the difficulties and the aerous abortive and time-consuming failures which intervened before I obtained satisfactory records to be referred to , and shall merely remark on such as bear on practical solution of the problems as I proceed .
Everyone who has worked with ishine in our climate knows how often a promising morning ends with an overcast K and all bacteriologists will understand how a plate is spoiled under such circumstances .
Enough , that failures may arise from the slipping of the agar films 0ve under-dosing them with spores , and a number of other points which experience enables one to guard against .
The time of exposure had also to be settled by tr and error , of course .
Taking the solar spectrum first , the method was as follows , 13 : A parallel beam ( A was obtained by means of a heliostat and plane silvered mirror , and thrown , through window into a dark room , on to a large plano-convex lens ( B ) ; the slit , of metal wa Fig. 13 .
placed horizontally so that the focus of the condensed rays fell just beyond it ( C ) , \gt ; that as much light as possible was made to traverse the slit .
These rays were th gathered up and again rendered convergent by a double convex lens ( D ) , and thebea thrown on to a prism ( E ) placed horizontally .
By these means I was able , during several days this summer , to obtain a fairly pie spectrum , which was very brilliant , although the slit was so narrow .
This last ia factor of great importance , because the exposures necessary are considerably lonfr than with undecomposed light .
The prepared film was covered with a glass plate , in which was a slot , about the inches long and half an inch wide , instead of the ordinary glass lid .
Over this st was a plate of thin quartz .
The whole plate , except the exposed slot , was protect !
with sterilised black paper , followed by tin-foil , and finally wrapped in stiff cartri\lt ; k paper .
( F , G : compare fig. 17 , p. 977 .
) The spectrum , after traversing the thin quartz-plate , fell direct on the surface* the film of agar with its embedded spores ( F , G ) .
It is obvious that , provided I could keep all the various rays acting with suIpjiN intensity , for the necessarily longer period of exposure , on the same part of |( prepared film , those which possess no bactericidal effect should leave the spores .
' which they fall unaltered , whereas those rays which kill the spores should regk1 their effect , and similarly for those which only inhibit or weaken the spores .

