148 On the Structure of Sigillaria scutellata , and other EusigillarianStems , in Comparison vnth those of other Palaeozoic Lycopods .
By E. A. Newell .
Arber , M.A. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , Trinity College , Cambridge University Demonstrator in Palreobotany , and Hugh H. Thomas , B.A. , formerly Scholar of Downing College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by D. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received November 8 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) Petrified stems belonging to the genus Sigillaria have hitherto proved to be extremely rare in the Upper Carboniferous rocks .
The present paper contains the first full account of the structure of the Eusigillarite or ribbed Sigillarias of the Rhytidolepis section .
Hitherto our knowledge of the anatomy of such stems has been limited to the account of the bark given by Williamson , and to brief descriptions of specimens , including the vascular cylinder , by Professor Bertrand and Dr. Scott .
The material , which forms the basis of the present study , consists of a petrifaction from the Lower Coal Measures of Shore-Littleborough in Lancashire , containing two well-preserved stems , lying side by side .
The external surfaces of the ribs of both stems have been exposed by Mr. James Lomax , after much difficulty , and our thanks are due to him for his skill in preparing the sections .
The characters of the ribs agree with those of the impressions known as Sigillaria scutellata , Brongn .
In addition , other steins are described in which the ribs are not exposed , and which cannot , therefore , be determined specifically .
Radial and tangential sections through the bark of all these specimens show , however , that they belong to species of the Rhytidolepis section of the Eusigillariae , which , like Sigillaria scutellata , possessed distant leaf scars .
These additional petrifactions agree exactly with Sigillaria scutellata , and have been made use of to illustrate further the anatomy of that species .
The steal has a well-marked pith , a tissue which is not , however , preserved in any of the stems which we have examined .
The medullary cavity is bounded by a continuous ring of scalariform tracheides , \#151 ; the primary wood , \#151 ; the outer margin of which is crenulated .
The protoxylem elements lie at the apices of the blunt , rounded teetli of the corona .
The elements of the protoxylem and primary wood appear to consist entirely of scalariform tracheides .
The elements of the secondary wood are also scalariform , and On the Structure of Sigillaria scutellata , etc. rather smaller than those of the primary xylem , but , unlike them , they are arranged radially .
The outer margin of this zone was crenulated , the ridges and grooves corresponding in position to those of the primary wood .
The medullary rays usually consist of a single row of cells of varying height , of which the walls are sometimes thickened transversely .
The phloem and inner cortex of thin-walled elements are not preserved .
A well developed band of phelloderm is found near the surface of the ribs .
This is regarded as having arisen on the inner side of a meristematic zone .
No definite cambial layer is to be found , and it is suggested that the meristematic activity here took place periodically .
Cells are to be seen in this region which appear to have undergone division shortly before preservation took place , and rings of growth are to be observed in the older portions of the phelloderm .
The secondary tissue consists of prismatic fibres , often chambered .
The ribs are really formed of cortical tissues , and not by fused leaf-bases .
They consist largely of phelloderm , and externally what is probably a small zone of primary cortex , which lay without the region of secondary merister-matic activity , still persists .
The stems were probably ribbed long before the formation of the periderm .
The leaf-bases , consisting of thin-walled parenchymatous elements , merely form bracket-like projections from the ribs ; those of the same vertical series being sufficiently distant from each other to leave a small gap of primary cortex between them .
The ribbing of the stem in the Eusigillariae , being entirely independent of the form and arrangement of the leaf-bases , appears to be a natural feature of importance in classifying the Sigillarke .
No sign of branching has been observed in any specimen .
The presence of a ligule and a ligular pit has been detected for the first time .
The course of the leaf-traces in the leaf-bases and cortical tissues has been followed with important results .
The bundle is collateral , and without secondary wood .
In the leaf-bases the trace consists of a double xylem strand , the two xylem groups being widely separated .
These two strands unite as they pass through the phelloderm .
The structure of the trace is almost identical with the foliar bundle of the leaf described by Scott as sulcata , which is obviously simply the leaf of a Eusigillarian stem .
The parichnos\#151 ; the two strands of thin-walled elements , which accompany the leaf-trace through the leaf-base and cortex\#151 ; increases greatly in size , as we pass from the exterior of the stem to the inner margin of the periderm .
The two strands further unite , first below and then above the trace , so that , at a deep level in the periderm , the trace is completely surrounded by a broad zone of this tissue .
On the Structure of Sigillaria scutellata , etc. The leaf-traces pass through the secondary wood at first at an angle of about 60 ' to the vertical , but their course soon becomes almost horizontal , and this is maintained until near the inner margin of the wood , when they again bend sharply downwards , and eventually unite with the primary wood in one of the grooves of the corona .
The Eusigillarise are compared anatomically with the Subsigillarne , and it is found that there are four points in which they differ .
In the Eusigillarise , the stems are ribbed and the primary xylem always forms a continuous ring .
The leaf-traces are monoxylic throughout their course .
In the periderm , the xylem of the trace divides into two distinct strands , and these persist through the leaf-base , into the leaf , until near its apex , as the xylem of the foliar bundle .
If , however , we regard Decaisnei , Ren .
, as a member of the Subsigillarise , a conclusion which seems inevitable , then this latter characteristic is common to both groups , though in the Subsigillarise it is combined with the diploxylic structure .
The Eusigillarife are next compared with the various types of structure exhibited by Lepidodendron and Lepidophloios , with the conclusion that they correspond most closely to the Lepidodendroid trunks of Arran and Dalmeny .
Anatomically they appear to be remote from Bothrodendron , so far as the structure of that genus is known .
It is found that , in the absence of the cortical tissues , it is not possible to distinguish the steal of a Eusigillarian stem by any definite characters from that of some Lepidodendrese .
The genus Diploxylon is discussed in this connection , and it is shown that it is by no means certain that all the decorticated stems , which have been referred to it , belong to the Sigillarise .
It is more probable that the stems of several distinct genera are here grouped together , if only as a temporary expedient .

