352 Election of Fellows .
[ June 16 , June 9 , 1887 .
The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Dr. J. H. Gladstone and Mr. G. J. Symons were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were then collected , and the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society :\#151 ; Buchanan , John Young , M.A. Cash , John Theodore , M.D. Douglass , Sir James Nicholas , M.I.C.E. Ewing , Prof. James Alfred , B.Sc. Forbes , Prof. George , M.A. Gowers , William Richard , M.D. Kennedy , Prof. Alexander B. W. , M.I.C.E. King , George , M.B. Kirk , Sir John , M.D. Lodge , Prof. Oliver Joseph , D.Sc .
Milne , Prof. John , F.G.S. Pickard-Cambridge , Rev. Octavius , M.A. Snelus , George James , F.C.S. Walsingham , Thomas , Lord .
Whitaker , William , B.A. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 16 , 1887 .
Professor G. G , STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Right Hon. the Earl of Rosebery ( elected 1886 ) , Mr. H. C. Russell ( elected 1886 ) , Mr. John Young Buchanan , Dr. John Theodore Cash , Sir James Nicholas Douglass , Prof. James Alfred Ewing , Prof. George Forbes , Dr. William Richard Gowers , Prof. Alexander B. W. Kennedy , Sir John Kirk , Mr. George James Snelus , and Lord W alsingham , were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read 1887 .
] On the Structure of Mucilage Cells .
I. " On the Structure of the Mucilage Cells of Bleclmum occidental ( L. ) and Osmunda regalia ( L. ) " By ToKUTARO Ito , F.L.S. , and Walter Gardiner , M.A. Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received May 31 , 1887 .
The growing point of many ferns is fonnd to be covered with a slimy mucilage which arises from hairs situated on the palae and the leaves , or where palse are absent on the leaves only .
This mucilaginous secretion serves a most important physiological function , in that it readily takes up and retains water , and thus keeps the young bud moist , and at the same time tends to prevent too excessive transpiration .
The cells which secrete the mucilage are large and swollen , and the secretion escapes by the rupturing of the cell wall .
We investigated two cases of mucilaginous secretion , viz. , occidentals ( L. ) , where in each hair only the terminal cell is glandular , and Osmunda regalis ( L. ) , where usually all the cells of the hair are equally endowed with secretory function .
We find that the mucilage arises from the protoplasm only and not from the cell wall , and that the whole process is distinctly intraprotoplasmic .
The structure of a mature gland is wonderfully like that of the secretory'animal cells investigated by Langley , * and indeed the very words used by him in the description of certain of the secretory cells will quite well apply to the particular glands investigated by us , for we also find that " in the mature cells the cell substance is composed of ( a. ) a framework of living substance or protoplasm connected at the periphery with a thin continuous layer of modified protoplasm " ( our ectoplasm ) , and that " within the meshes of the framework are enclosed two chemical substances at least , viz. ( b ) , a hyaline substance in contact with the framework , and ( c ) spherical granules which are embedded in the hyaline substance .
" In our case we have also to add , that the whole cell is enclosed in a cell wall .
We find , in other words , that in the glandular cells , investigated by us , mucilage is secreted in the form of drops , and that each drop is further differentiated with a ground substance ( gum mucilage ) in which are embedded numerous spherical droplets ( gum ) .
The mature cells which we have described are quite full of the secretion , so that the vacuole containing the cell sap has become completely obliterated .
This is occasioned mainly by the voluminous character of the secretion , which takes up water and becomes very bulky .
The young glands , however , display the usual structure of young cells , each containing a nucleus , plastids ( which in the case of Osmunda form numerous starch grains ) , and a vacuole .
Secretion * Langley , * Cambridge Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 5 , p. 25 .
On the Structure of Mucilage Cells .
[ June 16 commences by the breaking down of a portion of the innermost layers of the endoplasm at a number of contiguous but isolated areas .
The result of these katabolic changes in the protoplasm is the formation of small but rapidly growing mucilage drops .
The first formation occurs just beneath the free surface , and takes place equally around the whole cell cavity , and the phenomenon steadily continues from within outwards , producing new drops basipetally , and immediately beneath those already formed , until the whole of the endoplasm , together with the substance of the plastids ( or starch grains ) , have taken part in the process , and the cell is now full of isolated drops , each enclosed by a portion of the delicate protoplasmic framework which still remains .
A remarkable sequence of changes occurs in the drops themselves .
At their first formation they are watery and by no means well defined .
By the use of osmic acid it can then be shown that they contain no tannin .
They shortly become denser , and at this stage tannin appears equally distributed throughout their structure .
And now in the drops themselves a delicate reticulation may be observed , which finally gives way to the appearance of numerous minute and brightly shining droplets , all separate and distinct , disseminated through the substance of the drop , just as the drops themselves are disseminated through the substance of the protoplasm .
Reactions show that the ground substance of the drops is of the nature of a gummy mucilage , while the drops consist of pure gum .
Our observations make us disposed to believe that during secretion the protoplasm gives rise to a gummy mucilage , and the latter undergoes further differentiation into a ground substance which still retains its mucilaginous character , and into a gummy substance ( a product probably of maximum chemical change ) which is present as a number of isolated spherical droplets .
In the light of these remarks the structure presented by the mature cell becomes more clear .
In the case of many animal glands , serous and mucous salivary glands , Langley concludes that the protoplasm forms the hyaline substance , and then out of this manufactures the granules , which during secretion are turned out of the cell and give rise to the particular substance which the gland secretes .
The state of active secretion is followed by a resting period during which the protoplasm grows , forms new hyaline substance , and this again produces new granules .
We believe that a series of changes essentially similar in character occurs in plant cells also .
Usually speaking , plant cells are incapable of such active and repeated secretion as occurs on those of animals , and in many cases , e.g. , Blechnum and the secretion changes occur in the cell once and for all , and at .their termination the cell dies .
In other instances , however , e.g. , the glands of Dioncea , it appears exceedingly probable that the phenomena which accompany Mr. G. F. Dowdeswell .
On Rabies .
1887 .
] the repeated secretion are quite similar to those which happen in so many animal glands .
The various changes which accompany mucilaginous secretion are not shown by Blechnum occidentals .
In Osmunda the drops are much less defined , and , although more numerous , are smaller .
The changes which occur in the drops were observed in Blechnum occidentals .
In Osmunda we did not succeed in following them ; but since the two glands practically present the same structure in the mature cells , we are led to infer that the various processes are similar in both .
The secretion consisting of the mucilage drops and the disorganised protoplasmic framework escapes by the rupturing of the wall , and the disintegrated nucleus and the endoplasm are the only structures left in the cell .
In Osmunda the transverse walls are callussed on both sides , and the whole system ( wall and callus plate ) is obviously perforated by fine holes , which in the functional cell are filled by delicate strands of protoplasm .
These establish a direct continuity between the protoplasmic contents of the various cells of the hair .
We believe that in their main features the phenomena attending the formation of the secretion are such as are very widespread , and limited neither to the ferns nor to the particular case of secretion of mucilage .
II .
" On Rabies .
" By G. F. Dowdeswell , M.A. Communicated by Prof. Victor Horsley , F.R.S. ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Received May 9 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) In this investigation , commenced early in 1885 during the outbreak of rabies in London , the first experiments , made by subcutaneous inoculations with the saliva of rabid street dogs , all failed to produce infection .
Subsequently , adopting the methods described by M. Pasteur , I found\#151 ; 1 .
That the virus of rabies and hydrophobia resides in the cerebrospinal substance and in the peripheral nerves , and is not confined to the salivary glands , as hitherto supposed .
2 .
That by inoculation of this substance upon the brain of another animal , by trephining , infection follows much more quickly and certainly than by subcutaneous inoculation .
3 .
That rabies , however produced , in both dogs and rabbits , is essentially a paralytic affection , the same disease in both animals , and

