478 Prof. J. B. Haycraft .
On the Action of a [ Apr. 3 , shorter wave-length ; hut as the spark lines of iron seem to be quite as strongly depicted on the plates in regions of the spectrum far above T as they are in the regions below , we think that want of sensitiveness in the plates cannot be the only reason for the absence of higher lines , but that the emissive power of the metals for these lines is feeble at the comparatively low temperature of the flame .
This supposition accords with what we have observed of the lines seen in a carbon tube heated by the electric arc ( " Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soc. , " iv , 263 ) .
The iron lines photographed as reversed against the hot walls of such a tube were at certain stages of temperature the same , speaking generally , as those we have noticed in the flash of the detonating gases ; but as the temperature of the carbon tube rose , more refrangible lines , including all the strong iron lines in the neighbourhood of T , the lines of aluminium near S , and the magnesium line A , 2852 , were reversed in the photographs .
Gouy ( " Comp. R. , " 1877 , p. 232 ) , using a modification of Bunsen 's burner fed with gas mixed with spray of metallic salts , observed at the point of the inner green flame three or four iron lines which we have not observed in the flame of the detonating gas , the lines h- , and of magnesium , two cobalt lines in the blue which we have not seen , one line of zinc , and one of cadmium , and the two strong green rays of silver .
Can the appearance of these rays under these circumstances imply that the temperature of the inner green cone of a Bunsen burner , when the proportion of air to coal-gas is near the exploding point , is higher than that of the explosion of hydrogen and oxygen ?
The interesting theoretical questions which are suggested by the facts recorded in this paper we must leave for future discussion .
1Y .
" On the Action of a Secretion obtained from the Medicinal Leech on the Coagulation of the Blood .
" By John B. Haycraft , M.B. , F.R.S. ( Edin .
) , Professor of Physiology in the Mason and Queen 's Colleges , Birmingham .
Communicated by Dr. Lauder Brunton , F.R.S. Received March 28 , 1884 .
The following is an offshoot from a more extended investigation upon the coagulation of the blood not yet ready for publication .
The blood flowing from a leech-bite is not readily stopped , often flowing for upwards of an hour after the animal has been removed .
The blood within the body of the creature remains fluid for an indefinite time ; and when ejected it is found to have lost its coagulability .
These are facts known to every surgeon , but they have received no explanation .
While endeavouring to solve one very difficult problem , " why the 1884 .
] Secretion obtained from the Medicinal Leech .
479 blood does not coagulate within the living blood-vessels , " the above facts came to my mind and promised to throw some light on the general question .
The explanation which at once suggested itself to me was , that probably the leech secretes some ferment-containing-juice which antagonises the blood ferment , preventing coagulation within its body , enough remaining around the edges of the wound to prevent for some time the outflowing blood from clotting ; the blood remaining fluid , in fact , until the leech ferment is all washed away .
It will be seen that this explanation is in the main correct .
In order to investigate its action on the blood , a salt solution extract of leech was obtained .
In the first experiment the gullets and buccal cavities of two leeches were removed , cut in small pieces , and placed in 5 cub. centims. of 6 per cent , salt solution .
The rest of the alimentary canals were also finely divided and placed in a similar volume of the salt solution .
The extracts obtained were of a faint greenish-yellow tint , and alkaline in reaction .
A leech was then applied to the nose of a young rabbit for a quarter of an hour , then removed , and held in a salted towel until it had disgorged .
Meanwhile the blood flowing from the nose of the rabbit was collected in a test-tube .
o The rabbit was then killed , and 3 cub. centims. of its blood received into each of four vessels A , B , 0 , and D , which were placed under a glass shade , the air within being kept moist with blotting-paper soaked in water .
Vessel A contained nothing but the blood , which coagulated in four minutes .
Vessel B contained in addition 1 cub. centim. of 6 per cent , salt solution , and coagulated in four minutes .
Vessel 0 contained in addition 1 cub. centim. of 6 per cent , salt solution of the alimentary canals ( minus the pharynx ) of the leeches .
The blood faintly coagulated in four minutes , setting completely in half an hour .
Vessel D contained in addition 1 cub. centim. of 6 per cent , salt solution extract of gullet of leeches .
This remained fluid for twenty-four hours , a thick clotted scum forming on the surface when the blood putrefied .
The blood collected from the nose of the rabbit and that from the interior of the leech remained fluid until putrefaction set in , when the same half scum half clot formed on the surface .
It is evident from this experiment that something retarding or preventing coagulation may be extracted with 6 per cent , salt solution from the pharynx or mouth of the leech .
The slight action of the rest of the alimentary canal in retarding coagulation , as this and many subsequent experiments indicate , is due 480 Prof. J. B. Haycraft .
Action of a [ Apr. 3 to some of the secretion diffusing downwards .
Its place of origin within the body of the leech is certainly the pharynx or buccal cavity , decoctions of which are more than ten times as strong as those of the rest of the body .
The next experiment was undertaken to test my supposition that this substance belonged to the class of ferments , the most general character of which is that they are destroyed by boiling .
At the same time solutions of the leech in distilled water were made in order further to test its solubility .
Equal portions of the blood of a sheep were placed in four vessels containing equal volumes of leech extract .
Vessel A contained salt solution extract of gullet of leech ; the blood remained fluid for three hours and was not further observed .
Vessel B contained distilled water extract of gullet ; the blood remained fluid for a like period .
Vessel C contained boiled salt solution extract ; the blood remained fluid for a like period .
Vessel D contained boiled distilled water extract ; the blood remained fluid for a like period .
The blood received in a test-tube from the body of the animal coagulated in five minutes .
This experiment was repeated with similar results .
We have then to do with a substance not a ferment , and soluble in distilled water , as well as in salt solution .
It may be noted that when the leech extracts are added to blood the corpuscles subside to the bottom of the vessel , leaving , in the case of the salt solution extract , a clear plasma , and in the case of the watery extract a plasma coloured by the haemoglobin , which is partly dissolved .
In order to obtain the active principle of the leech extract in a pure form an attempt was made to isolate it by means of the ordinary solvents .
A watery extract of several leeches was evaporated to dryness , and divided into portions which were respectively extracted for twelve hours with chloroform , ether , benzole , and absolute alcohol .
They were then filtered , and the filtrates evaporated to dryness and extracted again with water .
They had no action whatever on blood , except in the case of the chloroform extract , and that was very slight indeed .
The residues after extraction with these fluids were dissolved in water , and proved efficacious when added to blood .
The substance is then insoluble in chloroform , ether , benzole , and alcohol .
Its separation in a pure form being evidently a difficult matter owing to its insolubility in the most useful solvents , the attempts at its isolation were in the meanwhile abandoned .
1884 .
] Secretion obtained from the Medicinal Leech .
481 One useful result of this experiment was the preparation of a much purer solution to be used for experimental purposes .
The gullets of the leeches were placed in absolute alcohol for a day or two , and then extracted with water .
In this way a clear , somewhat coloured alkaline fluid was obtained , almost free from albumen , and giving but a very small residue , this , too , of unimpaired strength .
A solution prepared in this way was henceforth always used .
The next task was to find the exact action of this substance on the blood , and in the first case to see if it destroyed or hindered the action of the ferment .
After trying in vain one or two methods the following suggested itself The blood-coagulating ferment is not very soluble in distilled water , so that if a blood-clot containing it be soaked for some time in the watery leech extract , - this can afterwards be removed by distilled water without dissolving out the ferment .
On adding the latter to hydrocele fluid its activity can be tested ( this fluid coagulates on the addition of active blood ferment ) .
The washed finely divided clot from bullocks ' blood was dried and divided into two equal portions by weight .
One portion was then placed in a watery solution of leech , and the* other in a like volume of distilled water .
After twelve hours the clots were removed , dried with blotting-paper , and carefully washed in distilled water .
The washing lasted for three hours , the wash water being four times renewed , each portion of clot being treated with the same volume of water .
They were then each placed in a few cubic centimetres of 8 per cent , salt solution in which the blood-coagulating ferment is soluble .
Five drops of the salt solution extract of the clots were added to equal quantities ( 5 cub. centims. ) of hydrocele fluid .
The hydrocele fluid to which the extract of clot , treated with leech extract , had been added did not coagulate at all , while the other portion coagulated in ten minutes .
The action of the leech extract is then seen to destroy the blood-coagulating ferment .
The next question is whether the blood corpuscles are in any way affected by the leech extract ?
A couple of drops of blood were obtained from the finger-tip , mixed rapidly with a drop of normal salt solution extract of leech , and a minute drop of the mixture placed on a glass slide .
This was then covered , and a ring of oil was painted round the edge of the cover-glass to fprevent evaporation .
When this was examined on a warm stage , the red corpuscles rapidly formed rouleaux in the ordinary way ; and the white corpuscles exhibited active amaeboid movements which continued for a considerable time\#151 ; the observations lasted for an hour .
In the meanwhile the blood had not coagulated .
It is seen then that the vitality of the 482 Prof. J. B. Haycraft .
On Action of a [ Apr. 3 white corpuscles is not destroyed , and that the formation of rouleaux by the red disks is not necessarily a phenomenon of coagulation .
The coagulation of the perivisceral fluid of the sea urchin is , according to the observations of my friend Mr. Patrick Geddes , not due to the intercellular formation of fibrin in the plasma , but to active amseboid movements of the white corpuscles .
The pseudopodia of neighbouring cells join , become welded together , and contract so that all the cells are massed together into a solid clot .
Professor Schafer maintains that there is also a formation of fibrin in the ordinary way which has been overlooked by Mr. Geddes.* I have not examined this fluid myself , and do not feel qualified to speak upon this subject ; but certainly the blood of crabs , crayfish , and lobsters clots in the way described by the former of these authors , there being no intercellular formation of fibrin .
In this case , then , the leech extract will probably not prevent coagulation .
The blood of a crayfish was mixed with one-third of its volume of leech extract .
A drop was examined microscopically at the ordinary temperature .
The cells exhibited normal amseboid movements , and coagulation was apparently quite normal .
Heretofore we have spoken of the extract of leech gullet and buccal cavity , but it hah not yet been shown which is the source of this excretion .
All that can be said is that it comes from either the gullet or mouth and sucker of the animal .
Careful microscopical preparations were made of the anterior half of the leech , to seek for glandular structures .
The animals were hardened for ten hours in saturated picric acid solution , and longitudinal mesial sections were made with a freezing microtome .
The sections were stained with picrocarmine .
No signs of ordinary glandular structures were to be observed either opening into the sucker , or into the alimentary canal .
Some of the epithelial cells forming the integument of the leech are much elongated , passing down even among the subjacent muscular fibres .
These have been looked upon as unicellular glands ( Ray-Lankester ) , and in the sucker one may see small collections of these .
If the skin lining the sucker be removed , it is found to be active in preventing coagulation .
Not in a less degree however is the anterior part of a leech from which the skin of the sucker has been removed .
Probably then the secretion is derived from the epithelial cells lining the sucker and buccal cavity ; it may be that the unicellular glands of the sucker share in its production .
, The products of the digestion of albumin by pepsin have an important action in retarding coagulation .
Dr. Schmidt-Mulheim , t working under the direction of Professor Ludwig , has shown that blood received from an open vein into a solution of peptone does not * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 34 , p. 370 .
+ " Archiv .
fur Phys. : " Du Bois-Reymond , 1880 , p. 33 .
1884 .
] Secretion obtained from ike Medicinal Leech .
coagulate with its normal rapidity , being retarded for nine or ten minutes .
If the peptone solution be injected into the veins of a dog , and blood withdrawn from the animal at intervals after the injection , it will , if the injection be powerful enough ( *3 grm. peptone to every 1000 grms. body weight of animal ) , materially affect its coagulability .
Dr. Fano* finds that certain products of tryptic digestion also retard coagulation in dogs ; but curiously enough neither digestion products have any action on rabbits .
It may be mentioned that when injected into dogs in larger quantities the blood pressure falls , there being great determination of blood to the abdomen and visceral veins ; convulsions are observed , and the animal dies in a state of coma , the blood found within the body being of course fluid .
The coagulability of the blood produced by certain poisons is altogether a question of great interest ; for instance , most snake bites ( the cobra is an exception ) produce permanent fluidity of the blood , and we know nothing either of the relation of that change to concomitant symptoms , or the specific action of the venom on the blood itself .
Now inasmuch as the extract of leech is much more powerful than the peptone solution in preventing coagulation outside the body , its effects when injected into the system may naturally be expected to lead to striking results .
The difficulties in obtaining a license to perform the experiments in England being very great , I availed myself of an invitation from my friend Professor Schmiedeberg , of Strasburg , who kindly placed his laboratory at my service .
It is with the greatest pleasure that I remember his kindness and courtesy , I wanted nothing that his well-organised laboratory contained , and to him I owe much personal assistance in an attempt to isolate the active principle present in the leech 's pharynx .
This attempt , although not as yet successful on account of the great difficulty of the task , will I hope at some future time be renewed with more fruitful result .
In the following experiments the extract of leech was prepared by placing the anterior part of the animal in absolute alcohol for three days , then evaporating off the alcohol , grinding the leech with broken glass , extracting with water and filtering .
Experiment with a Vog weighing 5000 grms.-\#151 ; Blood withdrawn by means of a cannula placed in the carotid artery coagulated in 3 minutes .
Temperature 39'*3 ( rectum ) .
5.22 p.m. 20 cub. centims. solution of 8 leeches injected into left jugular vein .
5.25 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn .
It remained fluid until the next morning , never completely coagulating .
* " Archiv .
fur Phjs .
, " 1881 , p. 276 .
VOL. XXXVI .
Prof. J. B. Hay craft .
On the Action of a [ Apr. 3 , 5.45 P.M. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn , which remained fluid until morning .
6.5 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn , which remained partly fluid till morning .
6.25 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn , which coagulated in 25 minutes .
7.0 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn , coagulated in 5 minutes .
During this experiment the respirations were somewhat increased in number , and the temperature rose gradually until it reached 40'\1 at 7 o'clock .
In the case of peptone injection a marked difference between its effects on dogs and on rabbits is seen .
A rabbit was therefore next chosen for the subject of an experiment .
A cannula was inserted into the carotid for the purpose of withdrawing blood at intervals .
1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn .
Coagulated in 0'8 minute .
4.40 p.m. 5 cub. centims. of solution from 5 leeches injected into left jugular vein .
4.45 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn from the carotid .
It remained fluid for 12 hours , 4.47 P.M. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn from the carotid .
A moiety coagulated in 2 hours .
5.20 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn .
In 25 minutes almost completely clotted .
5.40 p.m. 1 cub. centim. of blood withdrawn .
In 10 minutes it clotted fast , 6.0 p.m. 1 cub , centim. of blood withdrawn .
In 3 minutes it clotted fast .
In my first experiments when an animal was allowed to live after the operation , the wound in the neck was stitched up in the ordinary way .
When examined next morning a large swelling was always observed in the region of the wound .
On observing these they were found to consist of imperfectly clotted blood which had escaped from the divided capillaries , the fluid unable to clot had continued to collect often in very large amount , passing down under the skin in front of the chest , and often causing death .
Subsequently the wound was carefully painted with perchloride of iron before sewing it up , and no after-bleeding occurred .
These facts are not without interest , as they throw light upon a similar symptom seen in many cases of haemophilia or haemorrhagic diathesis , where the slightest wound gives rise often to very troublesome bleeding .
It was found by experiment that the injection of the leech extract has no immediate action on blood pressure .
After the injection of the substance the animals as a rule appeared somewhat dull , the respira- 1884 .
] Secretion obtained from the Medicinal Leech .
485 tions were somewhat increased and the temperature elevated , hut they soon recovered even after injection of large quantities ; in one case a rabbit weighing only 1080 grms. was hardly disturbed by an injection of an extract of twelve1 leeches .
The action of the leech extract , like that of the digestion products of Dr. Schmidt-Mulheim , is not permanent .
In a few hours the blood is again normal .
This may be from various possible reasons , either that more and more blood ferment is excreted , overpowering as it were the action of the leech extract , or that the latter is oxidised and broken up in the tissues , or finally that it is excreted ( probably with the urine ) .
This latter surmise was from the first held by my accomplished friend ; Dr. Kobert , and the following experiments show it to be true .
The urine was withdrawn from the dog used in the last experiment 1^ hours after the injection of the leech extract .
At the same time urine was obtained from a healthy animal .
Two drops of each fluid were added to two equal portions ( 7 drops ) of frog 's blood .
Whereas the one mixed with healthy urine coagulated imlO minutes , the other remained fluid for more than 12 hours .
The experiment was repeated with a like result .
Before leaving the action of the leech extract on the blood , it may be well to contrast its action with the peptone injection of Schmidt-Mulheim and Fano .
In the first place , I should be inclined to doubt whether the active substance iii these investigations is peptone at all .
It was found that after peptone had ceased to give any reaction in the blood , it was still uncoagulable ; the conclusion of Dr. Fano being that it forms some compound with other blood constituents which prevents the coagulation .
Is it not more natural to suppose that peptone has nothing to do with the question at all , especially as there are many other digestion products difficult to separate from the peptone .
Suppose the same substance formed in the leech were present\#151 ; -which it is not\#151 ; in the digestion products , it would not have been separated from the peptone prepared by these observers .
At any rate , the action of the injection , whatever it is , shows a marked difference in its results from1 the leech extract .
The latter produces far milder constitutional symptoms , is far more powerful in its action on the blood , and has the same action on rabbits as on dogs.* Since my return to my own laboratory I have investigated the * My friend Dr. Wooldridge believes that in the coagulation of the blood one factor , at any rate , is the conversion of the white cells into fibrin by the dead plasma ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 31 , p. 413 ) .
Without discussing the probability of such a view being correct or not , it certainly is not true in the clotting of the hydrocele fluid by an extract of clot ( ferment ) .
In this case my experiments show a special action of the leech extract on the ferment , which , when active , converts large portions of the plasma into fibrin .
2 l 2 486 Prof. J. B. Haycraft .
Action of a [ Apr. 3 action of the leech extract on the coagnlation of milk by rennet and on myosin .
B-ennet mixed with a watery solution of leech has no less power of clotting milk than another portion mixed with water alone .
The leech extract does not hinder in any way the clotting of myosin .
The latter was prepared from frog 's muscle in a somewhat shorter and , I think , a better way than that described by Kfihne .
Two mortars containing pounded glass were placed in a freezing mixture .
One held a few drops of normal salt solution , and the other a like quantity of normal salt solution of leech extract .
The legs of a frog were washed out with normal salt solution , the muscles cut out , dried on blotting-paper , placed in the mortar , and ground with the glass into a frozen pulp .
This was then tied up in a piece of calico , and the myosin expressed and filtered .
Its preparation is most easy , and can be done without fail in the hottest weather .
The myosin obtained from the muscle to which the leech extract had been added coagulated in 10\#151 ; 15 minutes , and the other in from 20\#151 ; 25 minutes .
The experiment was repeated with like results .
It may be remarked that if the clotting of myosin is due to a ferment , this has not yet been isolated .
Inasmuch as during contraction chemical changes occur very similar to those seen in rigor mortis , and inasmuch as in the latter the coagulation of myosin is a prominent fact , some have held that a contraction of a muscle is due also to a partial clotting of the myosin .
This view I have never held to be anything but fanciful , for reasons which cannot be stated here .
Dr. Lauder Brunton , however , suggested to me , that by soaking rog 's muscle in the leech extract , and studying its contractility , some light might be thrown on the subject .
I accordingly cut out from the limbs of a pithed frog some of the principal muscles , i.e. , the sartorii , carefully removing them with as little injury as possible .
Those of one side were placed in normal salt solution , and those of the other in normal salt solution of leech .
Comparisons were of course only made between the corresponding muscles of both sides .
From time to time the irritability was tested by currents from an induction coil .
In all cases the muscles placed in leech extract lost their irritability some time before the corresponding ones placed in salt solution .
In one experiment with two sartorii , the left placed in leech extract died in 35 minutes , the right in 70 minutes .
Two pectoral muscles attached to the bone lived much longer\#151 ; one longer than I had conceived was possible\#151 ; that in leech extract for 12 hours , and the other for 51 hours .
In these experiments those placed in leech extract almost from the first contracted more feebly when stimulated .
On more than one occasion I obtained partial recovery when a muscle was removed from the leech extract and placed in fresh salt solution .
The only conclusion one can draw is , that the leech extract somewhat hastens the 1884 .
] Secretion obtained from the Medicinal Leech .
487 coagulation of myosin removed from muscle , and probably when it causes loss of contractility in a muscle , it is due to the same reason , inducing , in fact , rigor mortis , the essential phenomenon of which is clotting of the myosin .
In conclusion , then , it may be stated that the leech secretes from its mouth a fluid which destroys the blood ferment without producing any other observable change in the blood .
This injected into an animal produces but slight constitutional disturbance , and is eliminated by the kidneys .
The action on the rabbit is the same as on the dog ; on crustacean blood it is inert .
It has no action on the curdling of milk , slightly hastening the clotting of myosin , and hastening rigor mortis .
The Society then adjourned over the Easter Recess to Thursday , April 24th .

