Sep Tab. I. Fig. 3 DC T T W Q R Or .
V NS A O B I ~ E C~ FLD M VI Fig. 1 .
V Mer .
IV III E II Fig. 2 I A0 B AC G NO B E B CB D CDC D D D E Sept. Philo : Trans. No.415 Occ .
V VI VI Fig. 2E AC B CB A ADA I. An Account of some uncommon Anastomoses of the Spermatic Vessels in a Woman , observed by Cromwell Mortimer , M. D. R. S. Secr. &amp; Coll. Med. Lond. Soc. EUSTACHIU S , that most accurate Anatomist , is the only Author I have met with , who has given us any Delineation of an immediate Communication between the Spermatic Arteries and Veins , during their Course along the Cavity of the Abdomen ; which is distinctly laid down in his anatomical Tables ( Romae in Folio 1714 .
) Tab. XII .
Fig. 1 &amp; 3 .
Tab. XIII .
Tab. XXV .
Boerhaave from him makes mention of these Anastomoses in his Institut .
Med. ~ 642 ; and also cites Leal Lealis in his Treatise ~~~ ( Lugd. Bat .
8vo .
1707 ) p. 18 ad 26 ; where he fully refutes de Graaf , who denies these Anastomoses : but even Leal owns , he never saw them , and only argues for them from the Effect , and the close Union of the Spermatic Vein and Artery in one Covering as they run together .
Marchetti in his Anatomy ( Hardevicae 120 .
1656 .
) Chap. of the Parts of Generation in a Man , asserts this Anastomosis , p. 58 , but neither do I find that he ever saw them ; nor have I hitherto conversed with any , even Anatomists , the most celebrated for their Injections , who had hit on a Subject , where these Passages were open enough to transmit the subtle Matter they inject with .
In the Beginning of the Year 1723 , being at Paris , and at the Hotel Dieu having an Opportunity of disE ee secting secting various Bodies , I light on a female Subject~ where these Anastomoses were as large as the spermatic Vessels themselves ; so that the Arteries being injected with a gross Mixture of Wax , Tallow and Vermilion , and the Veins with the same , only tinged with Smalt , the Injection ran out of the Artery into the Vein , and on the other Hand out of the Vein into the Artery , so that where one Vessel entered the other , the Matter injected was tinged purple .
You must observe the Arteries were first injected with the red , and the Veins afterward with the blue Matter .
In this Subject what appeared most remarkable , was , that on the right Side were two spermatic Arteries A and B. One A , arose from the very Angle made by the Emulgent and the Trunk of the Aorta descendens C , which , contrary to the common Course , ran under the Vena Cava , and soon after it was got beyond it , sent out a lateral Branch , or Anastomosis , descending obliquely OF into the Spermatic Vein G , through which the red Matter penetrated into the Vein ; which being afterwards filled with Blue , became Purple allabout the Orifice of this Vessel at F , which seems to confirm Eustachius 's Delineations , and show they are no Fictions .
This Artery A then descended as usual to the right Ovary H. The other right Spermatic Artery B arose as usual out of the Trunk of the Aorta ; but at about half an Inch from its Rise , it sent out an Anastomosis I K , ascending obliquely into the Body of the Vena Cava D , through which a large Quantity of the red Matter passed , so as to tinge a very broad Place at K in the Vena Cava purple .
About an Inch below this Orifice was another Anastomosis L M , through which the blue Matter penetrated out of the Vein , and made the Contents of the Artery purple at L. The right Spermatic Vein had only this one Anastomosis M L , in all other Respects as usual .
Here was something surprising to see the Course of the Channel inverted , if the Blood ran from the Vein M towards L , into the Artery ; but surely this must be from some Accident in the Injection , for it could never be so in the Person 's Life ; only indeed the oblique Rise of this Branch out of the Vein seems to show , that the Blood ascending in the Vein would have its natural Direction into the Orifice of that Channel , or at least the Blood coming from the Artery would meet with a Stop , and so the two Streams retard each other .
On the left Side was but one Spermatic Artery N , and one Spermatic Vein O , which , as usual , enclosed in a common Involucrum , made their Way to the left Ovary P. Only the Artery N took its Rise out of the Body of the Aorta near the Angle made by it , and the left emulgent Artery , then ascending between the emulgent Vein and Artery , turned in an Arch at Q , over the left emulgent Vein , and so joined the left Spermatic Vein as usual , which rose out of the left emulgent Vein , as it often happens .
There was on this Side one Thing very uncommon , and not taken Notice of by Eustachius himself , which was a short Anastomosis RS ( about a quarter of an Inch in Length ) from the left emulgent Artery S , which making an Arch under the left emulgent Vein , was inserted into the anterior Part of it at R. The small Branch arising out of the Aorta on the right Side at T , an Inch above the Emulgent , and its being inserted into the upper Part of the Kidney , is what we have many Varieties of in Eustachius 's Tables to his Book De Structura Renum ( 8vo .
Leid .
1707 ) almost an Infinity of such Variations , and likewise of small Branches inserted into the emulgent Veins , as at V , are daily met with , and have been observed by many Authors .
Explanation of Tab. 1 .
Fig. 1 .
A B , Two Spermatic Arteries on the right Side .
CC C , The Aorta descending , and the two Iliac Arteries .
DD D , The Vena Cava ascending , and the two Iliac Veins .
E F , L M , Anatomoses of the Spermatic Veins and Arteries .
G G , The right Spermatic Vein .
H , The right Ovary .
I K , An Anastomosis of the Spermatic Artery and Vena Cava .
NQ N , the left Spermatic Artery .
O O , The left Spermatic Vein .
P , The left Ovary .
R , S , An Anastomosis of the emulgent Vein and Artery .
T T , ~ Arteries and Veins dispersed on the Fat and V , V , V , Membranes enclosing the Kidneys .

