]\gt ; Major P. A. MacMahon .
A certain Ctass of [ Nov. 23 , Bathurst , Riuer Gambia .
, lat. N. , long .
W. The station on a large piece oopen ground and near the centre of McCarthy Square .
All the observations taken were made Apri120 , 1893 .
eclin{tion .
at 8.16 .
T. W. at 8.44 , , Dip . . . . . . . . . .
at 8.17 , , Needle1 , . . . . . . . . . .
at , , 2 , .
" " A certaiIl Class of Generating Functions in the eory of Numbers By Major P. A. MACMAHON , Received November 3 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The present investigation arose my " " Memoir on the Compoitions of Numbers , ' recently read before the Royal Society and ) course of publication in the ' Philosophical Transactions .
' neorem may be stated as follows:\mdash ; If X , , , . . . .
, be linear lnctioJlS of ities x , . . . .
, by the relation , that tion of the algebraic fraction 1893 .
] ctions m the Theory oj which is a function of the products , , . . . .
, only , is , where putting , . . . . . .
The of this theorem rests upon an idontity , for , is ' ' ' ' ' ' is very ] established .
An instantalleous detion of theg.eIleral theorem is the CStlt the generating the coefficients of \ldquo ; .
in the product The expression olves the seve ] conxi of the deferminant of the linear functions .
Thus theorem is of considernble rilh metical import and of interest in algebraicnl of detcrminants and m vo L. 364 in the Theory Tb product oft appoaxs in arithmetic as a redundant form of generating tion .
The theorem above supplies a condensed or exact form of gell erating function .
Ex. .
It is clear that the number of permtltations of the symboIs in the product which are such that every symbol is displaced is obviously the coeflicient of in the product and thence we easily pass to the true generating function In the paper many examples are given .
Frequently the redundant and condensed generating functions are differently interprebal ) ; we then obtain an al'ithmetical correspondence , two cases of which presented themselves in the " " Memoir on the Compositions of Numbers A more important method of obtaining arithmetical correspon ' dences is developed in the researches which follow the statement and proof of the theorem .
The general form of is such that the equation ives each quantity as a homographic function of the remaining quantities , and it is .
to enquire when ] er , the coefficients of arbitrarily , it is possible to pass to a corresponding redundant generating function .
I find that the cients of must satisfy conditions , and , assuming the satisfaction of these conditions , a redundant form cau be constructed which involves undetermined quantities .
In fact , when a redundant form exists all , it is nccessarily of tuply infinite cter .
1893 .
] On th TVhirling and of Shafts .
We are now able to pass from any particular redundant eneritting unction to an equivalent generating ction which involves undetermined quantities .
Assuming these quantities at pleasure , we obtain a number of different ebraic products , each of which may have its own mealling in ithmetic , and thus the number of arithmetical correspondences obtainable is subject to no tinite limit .
This portion of the theoly is given at in the paper , with illustrative examples .
interesting results are obtsined iu the fields of special and determinant theory .
The special erminant , which itself for exanlination , tel.med " " inversely is that the constituents sylmetrically placed in respect to the ) cipal axis have , each pair , a product unity , whilst the constituents 011 princip axis itself of equal to unity .
The determinaut possesses many which are of importanco to the principal investigation of the theorems conce ] ning the determinant are connected entirely with the -axial I tind that the general determinanb of even order , greater than two , is expl.essible in precisely two ways as an irrational function of its -axial minols , no determinant of uneven order is so expresible at all .
Of order superior to 3 , it is not possible to assume rary values for the determinant itself and all of ils -axial of the assumccL mtlst satisfy conditions , , these conditiolts .
satisfied , the detcrminant coustructed fo antitieS . .
' On the and ) of \ldquo ; By of by It is well ] , { a 1 articular speed bends , and , } amount of defleetion bo , might } ) tho or " " \ldquo ; depellds } tl is and modulus itions , )

