XXII .
" ( On the Thermal Effects of Longitudinal Compression of Solids .
" By J. P. JOULE , Esq. , F.R.S. ; and " On the Alterations of Temperature accompanying Changes of Pressure in Fluids .
" By Prof. W. TroiSoN , F.R.S. Reeived June 18 , 1857 .
In the further prosecution of the experiments of which an outline was given in the 'Proceedings ' for January 29 , 1857 , the author has verified the theory of Professor Thomson , as applied to the thermal effects of laying weights on and taking them off metallic pillars and cylinders of vulcanized india-rubber .
HIeat is evolved by compression , and absorbed on removing the compressing force in every substance yet experimented on .
In the case cf metals , the results agree very closely with the formula in which e , the longitudinal expansion by heat under pressure , is considered the same as the expansion without pressure .
It was observed , however , that all the experimental results were a little in excess of the theoretical , and it became therefore important to inquire whether the force of elasticity in metals is impaired by heat .
In the first arrangements for this purpose , the actual expansion of the bars employed in the experiments was ascertained by a micrometric apparatus , -1 st , when there was no tensile force , and 2nd , when a weight of 700 lbs. was hung to the extremity of the quarter-inch rods .
The results , reliable to less than one-hundredth of their whole value , did not exhibit any notable effect of tensile force on the coefficient of expansion by heat .
An experiment susceptible of greater delicacy was now tried .
Steel wire of -gth of an inch in diameter was wound upon a rod of iron 1 of an inch in diameter .
This was heated to redness .
Then , after plunging in cold water , the spiral was slipped off .
The number of convolutions of the spiral was 420 , and its weight 58 grains .
Its length , when suspended from one end , was 6'35 inches , but on adding to the extremity a weight of 129 grains , it stretched without sensible set to 14'55 inches .
The temperature of the spiral thus stretched was raised or lowered at pleasure by putting it in , or removing it out of an oven .
After several experiments it was found that between the limits of temperature 84 ?
and 280 ?
Fahr. , each degree Centigrade of rising temperature caused the spiral to lengthen as much as '00337 of an inch , and that a contraction of equal amount took place with each degree Centigrade of descending temperature .
Ience , as Mr. James Thomson has shown that the pulling out of a spiral is equivalent to twisting a wire , it follows that the force of torsion in steel wire is decreased '00041 by each degree of temperature .
An equally decisive result was obtained with copper wire , of which an elastic spiral was formed by stretching out a piece of soft wire , and then rolling it on a rod l of an inch in diameter .
The spiral thus formed consisted of 235 turns of wire , ,1 of an inch in diameter , weighing altogether 230 grains .
Unstretched , it measured 6*7 inches , but with a weight of 1251 grains attached to it , it stretched , without set , to 10'05 inches .
Experiments made with it showed an elongation of '00157 of an inch for each degree Centigrade of elevation of temperature , and an equal shortening on lowering the temperature .
The diminution of the force of torsion was in this case -00047 per degree Centigrade* .
Professor Thomson has obligingly furnished me with the following investigation : On the Alterations of Temperature accompanying Changes of Pressure in Fluids .
Let a mass of fluid , given at a temperature t and under a pressure p , be subjected to the following cycle of four operations in order .
( 1 ) The fluid being protected against gain or loss of heat , let the pressure on it be increased from p to p+ w. ( 2 ) Let heat be added , and the pressure of the fluid maintained constant at p + , till its temperature rises by dt .
( 3 ) The fluid being again protected against gain or loss of heat , let its pressure be reduced from p+ to p. ( 4 ) Let heat be abstracted , and the pressure maintained at p , till the temperature sinks to t again .
At the end of this cycle of operations , the fluid is again in the same physical condition as it was at the beginning , but , as is shown by the following considerations , a certain transformation of heat into work or the reverse has been effected by means of it .
In two of these four operations the fluid increases in bulk , and in the other two it contracts to an equal extent .
If the pressure were uniform during them all , there would be neither gain nor loss of work ; but inasmuch as the pressure is greater by w during operation ( 2 ) than during operation ( 4 ) , and rises during ( 1 ) by the same amount as it falls during ( 3 ) , there will , on the whole , be an amount of work equal to r dv , done by the fluid in expanding , over and above that which is spent on it by pressure from without while it is contracting , if dv denote a certain augmentation of volume which , when za and dt are infinitely small , is infinitely nearly equal to the expansion of the fluid during operation ( 2 ) , or its contraction during operation ( 4 ) .
Hence , considering the bulk of the fluid primitively operated on as unity , if we take dv dt =e , to denote an average coefficient of expansion of the fluid under constant pressure of from p to p+ w , or simply its coefficient of expansion at temperature t and pressure p , when we regard r as infinitely small , we have an amount of work equal to we dt gained from the cycle .
The case of a fluid such as water below 39 ?
'1 Fahr. , which contracts under constant pressure , with an elevation of temperature , is of course included by admitting negative values for e , and making the corresponding changes in statement .
Since the fluid is restored to its primitive physical condition at the end of the cycle , the source from which the work thus gained is drawn , must be heat , and since the operations are each perfectly reversible , Carnot 's principle must hold ; that is to say , if 0 denote the excess of temperature of the body while taking in heat above its temperature while giving out heat , and if p denote " Carnot 's function , " the work gained , per unit of heat taken in at the higher temperature , must be equal to 0 .
But while the fluid is giving out heat , that is to say , during operation ( 4 ) , its temperature is sinking from t +dt to t , and may be regarded as being on the average t+ -dt ; and while it is taking in heat , that is , during operation ( 2 ) , its temperature is rising from what it was at the end of operation ( 1 ) to a temperature higher by dt , or on the average exceeds by -dt , the temperature at the end of operation ( 1 ) .
The average temperature while heat is taken in consequently exceeds the average temperature while heat is given out , by just as much as the body rises in temperature during operation ( 1 ) .
If , therefore , this be denoted by 0 , and if K dt denote the quantity of heat taken in during operation ( 2 ) , the gain of work from heat in the whole cycle of operations must be equal to p0K dt , and hence we have 0 .
K dt=z e dt .
From this we find e where , according to the notation that has been introduced , 0 is the elevation of temperature consequent on a sudden augmentation of pressure from p to p+w ; e is the coefficient of expansion of the fluid , and K its capacity for heat , under constant pressure ; and p is Carnot 's function , being , according to the absolute thermodynamic scale of temperature , simply the reciprocal of the temperature , multiplied by the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit .
If then t denote the absolute temperature , which we have shown by experiment* agrees sensibly with temperature by the air-thermometer Cent. with 274 ?
added , and if J denote the mechanical equivalent of the thermal unit Centigrade , we have te This expression agrees in reality , but is somewhat more convenient in form , than that first given , Dynamical Theory of Heat , ? ?
49 , Trans. R.S.E. 1851 .
Thus for water , the value of K , the thermal capacity of a cubic foot under constant pressure , is 63'447 , and e varies from 0 to about 2 ~o o , for temperatures rising from that of maximum density to 50 ?
Cent. , and the elevation of temperature produced by an augmentation of pressure amounting to n times 21171bs .
per square foot ( that is to say , to n atmospheres ) , is teX2117l 1390 X6 ; 447 teX2117 For mercury , we have 139X2868 n. If , as a rough estimate , we take t-278 1e 46 ~ 2200 ' t(t-278 ) this becomes t(t-278 ) 420000 If , for instance , the temperature be 300 ?
on the absolute scale ( that is , 26 ?
of the Centig .
thermometer ) , we have n 636 as the heating effect produced by the sudden compression of water at that temperature : so that ten atmospheres of pressure would give TJ of a degree Cent. , or about five divisions on the scale of the most sensitive of the ether thermometers we have as yet had constructed .
Thus if we take -5--o as the value of e , this becomes t 103600 and at temperature 26 ?
Cent. , the heating effect of ten atmospheres is found to be -4 of a degree Cent. TABLE giving the thermal effects of a pressure of ten atmospheres on water and mercury* .
Increase or decrease of Increase of temperature Temperature .
temperature in water .
in mercury .
0 ?
... ... ... '005 decrease ... ... ... 026 3 ?
095 ... ... -0 ... ... . .
0264 10 ... ... ... 006 increase ... ... ... .
027 20 ?
... ... ... .
015 do ... ... ... 028 30 ?
... ... ... 022 do ... ... ... .
'029 40 ... ... ... 029 do ... ... ... . .
030 50 ?
... ... ... .
035 do ... ... ... .
031 60 ?
... ... 041 do. .
' ... ... . .
032 70 ?
... ... ... .
047 do ... ... ... . .
033 80 ?
... ... ... 055 do ... ... ... .
'034 90 ?
... ... ... 065 do ... ... ... 035 100 ?
... ... ... .
078 do ... ... ... .
036

