OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
In the decease of Professor William Stanley Jevons , science and philosophy , both , have suffered a great loss .
Since the departure of Boole and De Morgan\#151 ; names which are ever on the tongue of philosophical mathematicians\#151 ; no one has taken a more prominent part in the cultivation of symbolical logic than the accomplished man whose untimely death we have now to deplore .
To the general public Professor Jevons was best known , perhaps , by his researches on our coal supply , his works on political economy , and his papers on various social questions of the day .
His text-books for beginners have had an extensive circulation , and have proved highly serviceable to the class for which they were intended .
His essays on currency and finance , on capital and labour , and on questions affecting the social life of the people , are also well known .
But his reputation as a thinker and writer may be permitted to rest on his investigations into the principles of science and his contributions to a calculus of deductive reasoning .
Bringing to his studies and researches not only a well furnished mind , but also a rare faculty for experiment and a taste for mechanical contrivances , he was enabled to embody the results of his intellectual labours in forms at once original and attractive .
The instrument which he invented for the mechanical performance of logical inference , an account of which is given in the Transactions of our Society , could never have been devised by a man who was only a pure mathematician , or a pure logician .
It is the " fruit of the grafting of an experimental genius on a philosophical genius .
" This peculiarity gave to his writings a special interest and value , and secured for them a wide circle of readers .
William Stanley Jevons was born at Liverpool on the 1st of September , 1835 .
His father , Thomas Jevons , was an iron merchant in that city , and his mother who wrote some poems , and edited the " Sacred Offering , " was the eldest daughter of William Roscoe , the author of the well-known biographies of Lorenzo de Medici and Leo X. His earlier education was received at the High School of the Mechanics ' Institution , and at a private school in his native city .
Afterwards he was sent to London , where for twelve months he attended the classes of University College School .
At the age of sixteen he entered University College and commenced the usual course of st udy in arts and sciences , matriculating in 1852 in London University with honours in botany and chemistry .
In 1853 he received , through Mr. Graham , of the Mint , the appointment of Assayer to the Australian VOL. xxxv .
\amp ; Royal Mint , at Sydney .
He had just before won the gold medal in chemistry , at his College , and was working at the time , along with his cousin , Dr. Roscoe , in the Chemical Laboratory of Professor A. W. Williamson .
On receiving the appointment he at once threw himself into the intricate processes of gold and silver assay , and by a diligent course of study in London , under Mr. Graham , and at Paris , under the authorities of the mint there , quickly qualified himself for the duties of an office which he filled with conspicuous ability and success for five years .
His leisure at Sydney was devoted to scientific pursuits , more particularly to the study of the meteorology of the district , a subject which up to that time had been very little cultivated .
The results of his observations , extending over the whole period of his residence in the colony , were embodied in a pamphlet entitled\#151 ; " Some Data concerning the Climate of Australia and New Zealand .
" During this period he published also a paper , " On the Cirrous Forms of Cloud , with remarks on other Forms of Cloud " ( " Phil. Mag. , " 1857 ) , and another " On the Geological Origin of Australia and Earthquakes in New South Wales " ( " Sydney Mag. , " 1858 ) .
But his tastes and powers fitted him for higher pursuits than those which chiefly occupied his time at Sydney , and in 1858 he resolved to relinquish his post there , and to return to England that he might resume and complete his University course .
It was a bold step for him to take , for it involved the surrender of a career full of promise as to material advantages : but Jevons throughout life was animated by a pure and simple-hearted love for scientific labour .
Writing to his cousin in January , 1859 , he says : " I feel an utter distaste for money making , but on the contrary ever become more devoted to my favourite subjects of study .
Perhaps you think I am too varied and desultory in my employments , which is partly true , but you know I am yet in a transition state .
I told you long since that I intended exchanging the physical for the moral and logical sciences , in which my forte will really be found to lie .
I like and respect most of the physical sciences well enough , but they never really had my affections .
I should be glad indeed to follow out my subject of the Clouds and the movements of the atmosphere , because I feel sure I could place it in a new position altogether ; perhaps I may spare time for this in England , but I shall make it a secondary thing .
I have almost determined to spend a year at College before looking out for any employment in England ; it might be worth while to take my B. A. ( If I had had this degree before coming to this colony , I should vastly have improved my position in as well as outside the Mint .
) X wish especially to become a good mathematician , without which nothing , I am convinced , can be thoroughly done .
Most of my theories proceed upon a kind of mathematical basis , but I exceedingly regret being unable to follow them out beyond general arguments .
I daresay it is iii the general opinion of my friends in England that I am inexcusably imprudent in resigning \#163 ; 630 per annum . . . .
But I ask , is everything to be swamped with gold ?
Because I have a surety of an easy well-paid post here , am I to sacrifice everything that I really desire , and that will I think prove a really useful way of spending life ?
" Returning to England , he went on with his studies at University College , won various distinctions in his classes , and in 1860 proceeded to the degree of B.A. at London University .
Two years later he graduated as Master of Arts with the Gold Medal in the branch of Logic , Philosophy , and Political Economy .
Shortly after taking his B.A. degree he began to write for Watts 's Chemical Dictionary .
His articles , eight in number , relate to Clouds , Gold Assay , and Instruments employed in Chemical Analysis ; they occupy altogether nearly sixty closely printed pages of the work .
To the National Review ( 1861 ) he contributed an article on " Light and Sunlight " ; and to the London Quarterly Review ( 1862 ) an article on the " Spectrum .
" Meanwhile his thoughts seem to have been turning from the physical to the mental sciences , and to questions in economics .
At the Cambridge Meeting of the British Association in 1862 , Mr. Jevons communicated to the Statistical Section two papers , abstracts of which were printed in the Report , one entitled " On the Study of Periodical Commercial Fluctuations , " and the other , " Notice of a General Mathematical Theory of Political Economy .
" About the same time he prepared two charts or diagrams published by Stanford , showing\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The weekly accounts of the Bank of England , the quantity of notes in circulation , and the minimum rate of discount since 1844 ; and ( 2 .
) The price of the funds , the price of wheat , and the rate of discount since 1731 .
The diagrams represent to the eye and to the mind all the useful results of tables containing no fewer than 125,000 figures , which Mr. Jevons had compiled with great care and labour .
When engaged on this work he was much struck with the enormous rise of pi'ices about the year 1853 , and was in consequence led to suspect a serious depreciation of the standard of value .
Grappling with the difficulties of the inquiry , he examined with care the various causes of fluctuation in prices , seeking to distinguish between the temporary and the permanent .
His views on the subject were embodied in an essay entitled " A serious Fall in the Value of Gold ascertained , and its social Effects set forth .
" In these papers will be found the germs of ideas and methods more fully developed in some of his later writings .
In 1863 Mr. Jevons received an appointment in connexion with Owens College , Manchester .
That institution was then in its infancy , but full of vigorous life , and growing rapidly in strength and stature .
Increasing demands were made upon the time of the l 2 iv Professors , who had to perform , in addition to their own proper duties , those which are now assigned to lecturers and assistants .
It became necessary , therefore , to extend the teaching powers of the College , and it was resolved as a first step to appoint a college tutor to assist the students in their various studies .
This office Mr. Jevons was prevailed upon to accept .
Pew men could have been found so competent to fill it , his fulness of knowledge and versatility of mind qualifying him for the work in a very remarkable degree .
" The multiplicity of the London University system , " writes one of his colleagues , " had at no time any terrors for him , and I have known very few men so admirably endowed as he was with the continuation of force and elasticity necessary for confronting it .
" Por three years he served the College in this capacity with distinguished ability and success .
In 1866 some changes occurred in the personnel of the teaching staff , and Mr. Jevons was elected to a professorship .
The chairs of Logic and Political Economy being united , were entrusted to him , and in this new position he found employment entirely adapted to his gifts and tastes .
Logic had become his favourite but not exclusive study .
Meteorology and the physical sciences had lost much of their hold upon him ; but the theory of economics and problems connected therewith still continued to engage part of his attention .
The influences that mainly contributed to mould the form and direct the progress of his logical investigations may here be noticed .
While residing in Australia he had read with care Mr. Mill 's great work on Logic , and the interest then awakened in his mind was revived and strengthened on his return to England by listening to the lectures and reading the works of Professor De Morgan , that prince of teachers , to whom he often and warmly acknowledged his great indebtedness , as having inspired him with a deep love for logical method , and taught him to acquire those habits of exact thought and reasoning which are a better mental possession than any amount of mere knowledge .
Prom De Morgan , also , he probably derived his tendency to look at logic on its mathematical side .
But the man whose writings more , perhaps , than any other influenced the course of his logical speculations was Professor Boole .
With the " Investigations of the Laws of Thought " Jevons first became acquainted in 1860 , and from that date , throughout the remainder of his life , the science of logic .
occupied a prominent place in his studies .
The boldness , originality , and beauty of Boole 's system captivated him .
As a generalisation of reasoning , he regarded 'it as vastly superior to anything previously known ; but there were some portions of it that seemed to him dark and mysterious , and these he sought to separate from what he considered clear and unassailable .
The calculus of 0 and 1 , which plays so important a part in Boole 's method , Jevons rejected on the groun that it represents other operations than those of common thought .
He attached to the sign + , as a logical sign , a somewhat different meaning from that which it bears in the works of Boole .
He dis-pensed altogether with the indefinite class symbol n or % , and he imposed such restrictions as served to make the symbolical operations always interpretable in ordinary language .
Thus , in place of the logical equation x=vy , he employed its equivalent a ; and.so on .
By means of these and other minor modifications he succeeded m producing a system by which logical problems may he worked out according to the general laws developed by Boole , but in such a way as to make all intermediate as well as final results mterpretable .
His eailiest work on the subject is entitled " Pure Logic , or the Logic of Quality apart from Quantity : with Remarks on Boole 's System , and on the Relation of Logic and Mathematics " ( 1864 ) .
This was followed ya paper in the " Proceedings of the Literary and Philosopmcal Soci of Manchester " ( vol. v , pp. 161-5 , Session 1865-66 ) giving a brief account of his logical Abacus-a contrivance for reducing the processes of logical inference to a mechanical form .
" The purpose of this contrivance , " he says , " is to show the simple truth , and the pei-fect generality of a new system of pure qualitative logic closely analogous to , and suggested by , the mathematical system o o e late Professor Boole , but strongly distinguished from the .alter by the rejection of all considerations of quantity .
This logical abacus leads naturally to the construction of a simple machine which shal be capable of giving with absolute certainty all possible clusions from any sets of propositions or premises upon the keys of the instrument .
The possibility of such a contrivance is practically ascertained ; when completed , it will f urnish a ~gm proof of the truth of the system of logic embodied m it .
Still , t e more rudimentary contrivance called the Abacus will remain the most convenient for explaining the nature and working offormal and may be usefully employed in the lecture-room for e^biting the complete analysis of arguments and logical conditions and the e. p S7n1"k published in 1869 .
entitled " Substitution of Similars , " Professor Jevons simplified and extended his theory reasoning .
When logical propositions are expressed in th equation ?
, the old distinction of subject and predicate is Aohshed and the dictum .
de omni et nullo of Aristotle ceases to Jevons therefore proposed to modify the ancient Actum ^Jo it by the following:\#151 ; Whatever is known of a term may Us equal or equivalent .
Or , in other words , whatever ss \lt ; \#171 ; e \#171 ; / \#187 ; #* !
is true of Us like .
He held that all reasoning can be reduce to this fundamental principle .
But the novelty in his views \#153 ; s most str k-ingly exhibited in his logical analytical engine , the constiuctiou o which was completed about this time .
vi Boole has shown that " the ultimate laws of logic , those alone upon which it is possible to construct a science of logic , are mathematical in their form and expression , although not belonging to the mathematics of quantity .
" Jevons advanced a step further , and showed that the processes of logic , like those of arithmetic t\gt ; r algebra , are purely mechanical , and can be not only exemplified but performed by a logical engine .
A full description of this curious contrivance is given in a paper read before the Royal Society , in January , 1870 , and printed in the " Philosophical Transactions , " vol. 160 , pp. 497-518 .
Other papers and treatises on Logic proceeded from his pen : " On a General System of Numerically Definite Reasoning " ( Manchester Memoirs , 1872 ) .
" Primer of Logic " ( 1876 ) .
" The Principles of Science " ( first edition , 2 vols .
, 1874 ; second edition , 1 vol. , 1877 ) .
The last-named work is a comprehensive treatise oh Formal Logie and Scientific Method : it contains the matured results of Professor Jevons ' researches on the subject , and is distinguished by great wealth and freshness of illustration .
Almost every department of science is made to contribute examples in support or elucidation of the author 's views on the theory of reasoning and the nature and limits of scientific inquiry .
Perhaps the most original part of the work is that which treats of the " inverse logical problem .
" Jevons held that deductive reasoning gives the true type of all reasoning , and that induction in an inverse process bearing to deduction much the same relation that arithmetical division bears to multiplication , or evolution to involution .
The direct or deductive problem is , Given certain relations among terms or notions , to determine by the application of the fundamental laws of thought , all the possible combinations which are consistent with these relations .
The indirect or inductive problem is , Given the combinations , to determine all the possible relations from which these can be logically inferred .
In other words , induction is a reasoning back from conclusions to possible premises .
Whatever may be thought of this as a theory of induction , there can be no doubt that the inverse problem suggested by it is highly important .
The solution of that problem in all its generality appears to be impracticable on account of the number and variety of combinations involved ; but Jevons succeeded in obtaining a complete solution for two and for three classes ; and the late Professor Clifford made a valuable contribution to the subject by determining the number of types of compound statement involving four classes .
Clifford found the knowledge of the possible groupings of subdivisions of classes which he obtained by his inquiry , of service in some of his researches on hyperelliptic functions ; and Professor Cayley subsequently suggested that this line of investigation should be followed out , owing to the bearing of the theory of compound combinations upon the higher vii geometry .
Those combinations possess an interest for the mathematician apart altogether from their logical significance .
( " Manchester Proceedings , " 1877 , vol. xvi , pp. 89 , 113 .
) ^ _ , In 1867 Professor Jevons married Harriet Ann , daughter ot the late John Edward Taylor , the originator , proprietor , and editor of the " Manchester Guardian .
" Three children were the fruit of the union , a son born in 1875 , and two daughters , one born in 1877 , the other in 1880 .
His domestic happiness , and the composure of mind resulting from it , facilitated largely the execution of his intellectual work .
He confessed to it himself with his usual manly simplicity , and , as one of his friends says , " it was as if his very powers as an observer had derived a fresh and lasting impulse from the new associations which had become part of his life .
" .
The question of the extent and the resources of the British coalfields was brought under public notice by the debates in Parliament on the Commercial Treaty with Prance in 1859-60 .
Attention was called to the importance of effecting a reduction in the National Debt , while coal and iron , the main sources of British wealth , were abundant .
Hence arose the inquiry to what extent we might rely on the future produce of our coalfields .
Professor Hull and others made estimates of the total quantity of accessible coal m the United Kingdom , and Sir William Armstrong , in his address at the British Association in 1863 , gave prominence to the subject , pointing out that the problem to be solved is not how long our coal will endure before there is absolute exhaustion , but how long those particular seams wi last which yield coal of a quality and at a price to enable our country to maintain her supremacy in manufacturing industry .
Jevons attacked this problem with all the advantage gained from long experience in the collection and management of statistical details .
His results were embodied in a treatise , entitled " The Coal Quea , ion^ an Inquiry concerning the Progress of the Nation , and the Probable Exhaustion of our Coal Mines .
" ( First edition , 1865 ; second edition 1866 .
) Written with clearness , tact and vigour , .
n p senting the matter in a now and interesting light the work was largely read ; Jevons ' conclusions were keenly discussed by journa is s and reviewers , and attracted the attention not only of ' Xs t and men of business but of politicians and statesmen of the highest order A Eoyal Commission was appointed to inquire into the who e question , and Mr. Gladstone used Professor Jevons e\#187 ; lculations m support of his suggestion that a certain portion of the national revenue should be set aside as a reserve fund in payment of the ^p'robtems"^ applied economics had for Jevons a Pecu , jar at'\#153 ; ' tiveness , because of their bearing on the material welfare of the com-munity .
His devotion to abstract studies did not destroy Ins in viii in the progress of society , or in questions touching the practical life of men .
While busied with researches on abstract principles , he always kept a window open to the outer world : witness his work on Coals , his papers on Currency and Coinage , Variation of Prices , the frequent Autumnal Pressure on the Money Market , and other kindred subjects , and his articles and addresses on questions of the day , published in the " Contemporary , " the " Fortnightly Review , " and elsewhere .
Several of these scattered papers have lately been collected and republished in a separate volume under the title of " Methods of Social Reform ; " and a glance at some of the headings will suffice to show the width of Jevons ' interest in whatever affects popular progress\#151 ; Amusements of the People , Free Public Libraries , Museums , " Cram , " Trade Societies , Industial Partnerships , Married Women in Factories , Cruelty to Animals , The United Kingdom Alliance , Experimental Legislation and the Drink Traffic , State Parcel Post , \amp ; c. A pamphlet on the Match Tax , which he wrote in 1871 , is memorable as a skilful and courageous defence of a most unpopular measure .
In his view the country had reached a critical point where " one great and true policy bad been nearly if not quite accomplished ; " and he feared that " without any strong guiding principle like that of free trade " before it , the nation was in danger of drifting instead of carefully steering in its financial course .
" If one-half of the doctrines and arguments which were brought against the Match Tax should be accepted as really true and cogent , the balance of our financial system would be in danger of complete derangement .
" He therefore considered it important to subject to calm and impartial investigation the various opinions uttered during the heated discussion on the proposed new impost , and his pamphlet presents an admirable specimen of the way in which the truths of economics should be applied to questions of taxation .
But in his " Theory of Political Economy " ( 1871 , second edition enlarged 1879 ) , Jevons dealt not with particular applications , but with the general principles of the science ; he laboured at the foundations .
Dissatisfied with many of the views of Ricardo and Mill , he sought to construct the science on a new basis .
Observing that " as it deals with quantities it must be a mathematical science in matter if not in language , " he endeavoured to express quantitatively such notices as utility , value , labour , capital , \amp ; c. , and he maintained that the employment of mathematical forms is conducive to clearness and precision of expression .
It is curious to remark , however , that he did not attempt to develope those forms as a working process , and when it was pointed out to him that a little manipulation of the symbols in accordance with the rules of the differential calculus would often have yielded results which he had laboriously argued out , he contented himself with replying that he did not write for mathe- maticians , nor as a mathematician , but as an economist , wishing to convince other economists that their science can only be satisfactorily treated on an explicitly mathematical basis .
One who is both a mathematician and an economist bears the following testimony , as discriminating as appreciative , to the value and importance of Jevons ' work in this branch of knowledge .
" Mr. Jevons , " writes Professor A. Marshall , " was an economist of the highest order .
In his ' Theory of Political Economy ' he explains the nature of economic quantities , and their relation to one another .
Work of this kind involves no startling discovery , but its effect is much greater than appears at first sight .
It makes us master of our thoughts , and founds new empires in science .
A small part of his work , which was warped by his antipathy to Ricardo , will probably die away .
A small part also will lose lustre when Cournot 's applications of mathematics to economics are better known .
Eor indeed Jevons was , as he frankly confessed , not a skilled mathematician .
Truly mathematical as is the tone of his best work , he was not at his ease when using mathematical formulae .
But the great body of his work is unaffected by these blemishes ; the lapse of time will but add to its lustre , and it will probably be found to have more truly constructive force than any , save that of Ricardo , that has been done during the last hundred years .
His contributions to statistics were widely known .
The pure honesty of his mind , combined with his special intellectual fitness for the work , have made them models for all time .
But it is in his essays on the applications of economics to the theory of governmental action that his full greatness is best seen .
There is no other work of the kind which is to be compared to them for originality , for suggestiveness , and for wisdom .
Almost every one of them contains some great new practical truth which the world is beginning to recognise , though but few persons know their obligations to him .
" " Money and the Mechanism of Exchange " made its appearance in 1875 , forming part of the International Scientific Series .
In this work Jevons expounded the nature and functions of money , the principles of circulation , the various forms of credit documents , and the elaborate mechanism by which money exchanges are facilitated , adding some important historical notes and a discussion of certain technical points connected with the subjects treated of in the mam body of the volume . .
Jevons ' connexion with Owens College extended over a period ot thirteen years , during which the Institution steadily advanced m reputation and renown .
Much of its progress was due no doubt to the liberality of its friends , but more perhaps to the genius and labours of its professors , and among these Jevons held a conspicuous place .
In its new buildings and with its new constitution , the College X gave a considerable share of its government to the distinguished men who constituted its teaching body , and largely increased the importance of their corporate deliberation .
Almost from the first Jevons proved himself a valuable member of the Senate , and at a somewhat critical period in the history of the College , he was chosen to serve as a representative on the College Council .
" There were many qualities in him , " writes one of his colleagues , which more than justified the confidence reposed in him , but there was none for which he was more conspicuous than a comprehensive large mindedness which enabled him to look on questions with a view to something more than the immediate future . . . .
Towards one change now actually effected , and in the opinion of many of us , deserving to be called a progress , he at first maintained an attitude of extremely well armed neutrality .
I liked to attribute his coldness towards our University project to his loyalty as a member of the University of London ; but I confess to having spent a very bad half hour when I made a final private attempt to argue him into a change of front .
At the same time it is an instance of the sagacity which has marked his treatment of so many public questions , that he from the first ( or nearly so ) declared that the adoption of a constitution , such as that now actually possessed by the Victoria University , would be the right way towards the desired end .
In 1868 Jevons was appointed an Examiner in Political Economy in the University of London ; in 1870 he was President of the Economic Section at the Meeting of the British Association in Liverpool j in 1872 he was elected a Fellow of this Society ; and in 1874 and 1875 he was an Examiner for the Moral Science Tripos in the University of Cambridge .
In the latter year the Senatus Academicus of the University of Edinburgh conferred upon him the honorary degree of LL. D. , and in the following year he was appointed Examiner of Logie and Moral Philosophy in the University of London .
In 1876 he resigned his connexion with Owens College , and in the same year , on accepting the Professorship of Political Economy in University College , London , he removed to Hampstead , hoping there to have more leisure and greater facilities for the prosecution of his researches .
The duties of his new position were less onerous than those to which he had been accustomed in Manchester ; but academic work had never been very congenial to him , and lecturing , even on his favourite subjects , had become of late years somewhat of an irksome task .
In a letter to the writer about this time , he speaks of the duties of the class-room as a " millstone " upon his health and spirits .
Sometimes he had enjoyed lecturing , especially on logic , but for years past he had " never entered the lecture-room without a feeling , probably , like that of going to the pillory .
" " Now that I have been able to get rid of the burden , " he adds , " I shall probably xi be much better .
I shall never lecture , speechify , or do anything of that sort again if I can possibly help it .
" Apart from special reasons , too , he found that the pressure of literary work left him no spare energy whatever .
Besides the logical exercises which he had just finished and given to the world in a goodly volume , entitled " Studies in Deductive Logic , " he had a large treatise on practical economy in full progress , a bibliography of logic in hand , and the analysis of " Mill 's Philosophy " on his mind .
He was also preparing a student 's edition of the " Wealth of Nations , " a preface to the English translation of Cossa 's " Guide to Political Economy , " and a volume on " The State in Relation to Labour " for Macmillan 's English Citizen Series , besides new editions of some of his earlier treatises and various minor articles for the Reviews .
Much of this work he actually accomplished before the waves closed over his vanished life .
But much also remained unaccomplished .
The " Principles of Economics , " intended as a companion volume to the " Principles of Science , " he did not live to complete .
In the summer of last year ( 1882 ) he went down with his wife and family to spend five or six weeks at Bexhill , a small village on the Sussex coast .
Here he wrote an article on " Reflected Rainbows , " which appeared in the " Field Naturalist .
" This was his last printed production .
He had been accustomed in former years when visiting Bexhill to bathe in the sea , and being a good swimmer and familiar with , the coast , lie seems not to have apprehended any danger .
But this season his wife had dissuaded him from the exercise , for he was not in good bodily health .
The action of his heart was weak , and the close and continued intension of his mind on absorbing studies had much reduced his physical strength .
On the morning of Sunday the 13th of August , he was walking with his wife and children on the beach , not far from the cottage on the cliff where they were staying .
A man of warm domestic affections , lie loved to be with the little ones , watching their innocent ways and participating in their simple pleasures .
At length he turned to leave them , saying nothing of his intention to bathe ; perhaps he formed the intention on his way back to the cottage , or after he had reached it .
Taking a towel out of the house , he descended the cliff on the other side and entered the water .
No one else was bathing at the time , or wi m sight of the place ; and the exact circumstances of his death can on y be conjectured .
It is believed that the sudden shock of the cold water , overstraining a weak heart , caused syncope , and that from the first plunge he was quite powerless .
Some boys passing along the beach saw the body a few yards out , floating on the sea , face downwards , and at once gave the alarm .
Among the persons attracted to the spot was a labourer residing on the hill who , twenty minutes before , had seen Jevons going down to the beach .
When the body xii was brought to land life was extinct .
Within an hour and a-half of his leaving her , Mrs. Jevons ' heard of her husband 's death .
His clothes and the unused towel were found lying on the shore .
Jevons was a man as remarkable for modesty of character and generous appreciation of the labours of others as for unwearied industry , devotion to work of the highest and purest kind , and thorough independence and originality of thought .
The bequest which he has left to the world is not represented solely by the results of his intellectual toil , widely as these are appreciated not only in England but also in America and on the Continent of Europe .
A pure and lofty character is more precious than any achievements in the field of knowledge ; and though its influences are not so easy to trace , it is often more powerful in the inspiration which it breathes than the literary or scientific productions of the man .
" That Professor Jevons will be missed , " writes the editor of the " Spectator , " " as one of the profoundest thinkers of our time on the philosophy of science , no one who knows anything of his writings will doubt .
Yet he had other qualities , not always found in men of science , which made his character as unique as his intellect .
At once shy and genial , and full of the appreciation of the humour of human life , eager as he was in his solitary studies , he enjoyed nothing so much as to find himself thawing in the lively companionship of intimate friends .
Something of a recluse in temperament , his generous and tender nature rebelled against the seclusion into which his studies and his not unfrequent dyspepsia drove him .
His hearty laugh was something unique in itself , and made every one the happier who heard it .
His humble estimate of himself and his doubts of his power of inspiring affection , or even strong friendship , were singularly remarkable , when contrasted with the great courage which he had of his opinions ; nevertheless , his dependence on human ties for his happiness was as complete as the love he felt for his chosen friends was strong and faithful .
Moreover , there was a deep religious feeling at the bottom of his nature , which made the materialistic tone of the day as alien to him as all true science , whether on material , or on intellectual , or on spiritual themes , was unaffectedly dear to him .
" it .
H. Friedrich Wohler was born on July 31 , 1800 , in the village of Escherheim , near Frankfort-on the-Main , in the house of the pastor of that place , a brother-in-law of his mother .
He received his first instruction in reading , writing , and arithmetic from his father ; he went afterwards to the ordinary school , and later on he took private lessons in Latin and French , as well as in music .
Wohler early showed a taste for experimenting and collecting , in which he was helped and encouraged both by his father and by his father 's friend , Hof rath Wlchterich , who took great interest in xiii science .
Wichterich had some chemical and physical apparatus , with which he later on allowed the boy to experiment .
Young Wohler also collected all the stones which struck him as in any way remarkable .
In 1814 he went to the Frankfort Gymnasium , which he continued to attend until he went to the University .
Amongst his teachers at this period were several men who afterwards became distinguished\#151 ; F. Ch. Schlosser , Grotefend , C. Bitter , \amp ; c. He was regular in his attendance at school , and was moved up to higher classes at the usual rates ; but , as he himself used afterwards honestly to admit , he did not distinguish himself either by any marked industry or progress in knowledge .
This may have been partly due to the fact of his having continued to occupy himself zealously with chemical experiments and collecting minerals .
He worked so little at mathematics , for which he had little taste and aptitude , that he was afterwards obliged to get private lessons in it .
He kept up a continual interchange of mineral specimens with several of his schoolfellows , amongst whom were Hermann von Meyer and Menge , who afterwar s became a dealer in minerals , and who is well known for his travels in Iceland and among the Oural mountains .
Wohler m after years too to Menge at Hanover many a bag of hyaliths of his own collecting .
During this period of Wohler 's life Dr. Buch , a highly cultivated and intelligent man who gave private lessons and worked a chemistry , physics , and mineralogy , exercised a considerable influence on his scientific development ; for years Dr. Buch let young Won er associate with him , and he it was who first incited the young man to study nature seriously .
A kitchen in Buch 's house served as a laboratory , in which on specified days they made experiments together Soon after the discovery of selenium , Wohler had noticed e occurrence of this , at that time , rare substance in a sample ot Bo e-mian sulphuric acid , and in consequence he sent for some of the ore from which it had been prepared The occurrence of selenium in this substance was proved , but it was not until 1821 that t e reoii made known to the world by Wohler and Gilbert s Annalen .
Ihe interest of Buch and Wohler was also excited by the newly discovered metal cadmium , and they succeeded in preparing a sma quan ij , which Wohler afterwards , when on a pedestrian excursion to Oassel and Gottingen , took with him to show to Stromeyer , the discoverer of cadmium , and to get it verified by him .
" , , Wohler 's reverence for Blumenbach , whose Handboo - o History " he had studied assiduously , gave him courage o visi Blnmenbach on this occasion , and to take an opportunity o seeing ns " elr : Tire and moTe fannliar with chemical p~ , and whereas in the beginning he had merely had Hagens Experimental Chemistry , " the book from which his father had s u le , xiv consult , he now had access to Dr. Buch 's rich library .
His room was gradually converted into a laboratory , full of glasses , retorts , flasks , stones , \amp ; c. , all in the utmost disorder .
Experiments requiring heat , which he could not carry on in this room , he used to make in the kitchen , where he pressed all the basins into his service .
He likewise built up a small voltaic pile with some large Russian copper coins and zinc plates , and became acquainted with their property of decomposing water and causing shocks .
This pile had not power enough to reduce potassium ; .but his desire to see and possess this remarkable metal , which he only knew from description , was so great that he endeavoured to procure it chemically , according to the method followed by Curandau , an operation which was not easy , but which , to his great satisfaction , succeeded .
By way of a stove he made use of a large old the of graphite , which Bunsen , the Master of the Mint , had given him .
Bunsen had also lent him a pair of bellows , which Wohler 's sister used to blow .
Wohler had many other interests and occupations besides these scientific experiments ; he took regular lessons in drawing , to which his father , who was himself a good draughtsman , attached much importance , and when making excursions in the neighbourhood , in the Taunus , on the Rhine , \amp ; c. , he always had his sketch-book with him .
He also painted in oils .
One of his hobbies was collecting old coins , of which he had a considerable number , as also of Roman urns , lamps , \amp ; c. , which at that time were still frequently found in the old Roman camps at Gaddersheim , Maintz , and Wiesbaden .
He also began a closer study of the German poets , under the guidance of the young painter from whom he learnt drawing .
Wohler was as yet too young to have a clear insight into the great political events of that time , but as a boy he saw the triumphant entrance of Napoleon into Frankfort , and later on the entrance of the allied armies , and of the Cossacks , \amp ; c. His father paid special attention to his physical development , to the strengthening and invigorating of his rather weakly frame by regular physical exercises such as riding , gymnastics , fencing , swimming , \amp ; c. , and by shooting , both in winter and summer .
At Easter , 1820 , he being then nearly twenty years of age , young Wohler was sent to the University as It had been previously settled by a family conclave that he should study medicine , not only because he wished it himself , but also because for several reasons this profession seemed to offer him the best prospects .
He passed his first year of studentship in Marburg , where his father had studied before him , and where there were old family friends residing who could look after and advise the inexperienced student .
He attended Ullmann 's lectures on mineralogy , those on botany by Windewitz , Gerling 's lectures on physics and mathematics , Bunger 's lectures on anatomy , as well as his dissection class .
On chemistry , his favourite subject , there were no lectures during the first term , and in the second term he did not attend them , because Professor Wurzer had wounded his youthful feelings of ambition .
To the very great annoyance of the mistress of the house where he lived , he had again turned his room into a laboratory , and had begun to make experiments on sulpho-cyamides and other compounds .
He discovered iodide of cyanogen , at least it was to him a discovery , as he was not aware that Davy had already found it .
In the joy of his heart he told Professor Wurzer of it , but the latter , instead of studying this substance , as new to him as it ' was to young Wohler , reproached the youth bitterly that he , a student should be on the look-out for discoveries , instead of attending to his medical studies .
Through Dr. Buch these little researches were afterwards published in Gilbert 's " Annalen .
" At the end of a year Wohler went to the University of Heidelberg , full of enthusiasm , even in anticipation , for Leopold Gmelin , who from t , hjs time forth was his favourite teacher as well as kindest friend and counsellor , Wohler wished above all to hear Gmelin 's chemical lectures , but Gmelin thought this would be a waste of time , and thus it came about that Wohler never attended any course of chemica lectures .
He gained , however , all the more by personal intercourse with Gmelin and the opportunity of working in his laboratory .
He devoted to chemistry nearly all the time which his medical studies left him , and even towards the end of these studies , when practical medical work took up nearly the whole of his time , it seemed quite a necessity to him to go daily to the laboratory at least once .
It was here that he had begun his investigation of cyanic acid , of which earliest account had been published in Gilbert 's " Annalen .
It was to him a great gain that at this period Grnelm and Tiedemann we S working at their joint chemical and physiological researches .
Woh ei also enjoyed the special favour of Tiedemann , and owed to this excellent man his lively interest in physiology .
It may have been partly due to the influence of Tiedemann that W5hler undertook to write an essay , in competition for a prize offered by the medical faculty , on the passage of substances into the urine , for which purpose helper-formed numerous experiments , partly on himself , but mos y on g .
He was so fortunate as to gain the prize .
Though he might have made use of this treatise for a dissertation , he preferred that it should be published in Tiedemann 's " Zeitschnft fur Physiologie , 182 .
However , Wohler 's primary object was still to become a medical man , and latterly his inclination to this profession was the closer acquaintance with its practical side which !
be clinical visits .
He was more especially attracted by the " ldw* cases , for which Nagele had a gift of interesting his pup* .
Assuming that they would prefer this branch of practice to all others , Nagele xvi selected Wohler and his friend and fellow-student , G. Spiess , to be present at every birth in the institution he attended during their last year of medical study .
In September Wohler and Spiess went through their sanitate examination and received the degree of Doctor in Medicine , Surgery , and Midwifery .
Wohler was now to begin travelling in order to visit larger hospitals , when Gmelin suddenly gave an entirely new direction to his life by earnestly advising him to give up the practice of medicine and to devote himself entirely to chemistry .
Without taking much time to reflect , and certain of his father 's consent , Wohler gladly agreed to Gmelin 's proposal .
By Gmelin 's advice , and encouraged by the favourable manner in which Berzelius had noticed Wohler 's earliest researches in his " Jahresberichte , " young Wohler applied to Berzelius for permission to work in his laboratory , which application was received in the most flattering manner .
Wohler decided to travel to Stockholm by way of Liibeck .
At Lubeck he took a passage in a small sailing-vessel bound for Stockholm ; but the departure of the vessel was deferred from week to week , and he was actually detained in Lubeck for six weeks .
He did not , however , find this altogether a waste of time , for he got an introduction through Menge , the dealer in minerals , to the scientific apothecary Kind , and in Kind 's laboratory he worked at the preparation of larger quantities of the metal potassium .
At length Wohler sailed for Stockholm .
After a very stormy passage he reached the Swedish coast at Dalaro , and on arriving at Stockholm a few days later received the warmest welcome from Berzelius .
A University laboratory is now a very different thing from what it was in those days .
Wohler was the only student in the laboratory of Berzelius .
The laboratory consisted of two ordinary rooms , in which the chemists worked at deal tables .
In a kitchen close by where their meals were prepared , and where the servant had to clean their chemical apparatus , stood a little furnace and a heated sand-bath .
Here Wohler worked out some experiments on minerals , selecting chiefly those containing elements unknown to him , such as compounds of lithium and tungsten .
Later on he returned to his experiments on cyanic acid .
In these Berzelius took a special interest , as they seemed likely to cast a new light on the constitution of chemical compounds .
Besides working at these experiments , Wohler assisted Berzelius in his beautiful research on hydrofluoric acid , his discovery of silicon , of boron , and of zirconium .
Whilst engaged during the day on these researches Wohler used to work during his evenings at the Swedish language , translating Berzelius ' papers into German for " Poggendorff 's Annalen .
" In after years he used regularly to translate Berzelius ' " Jahresbericht , " as well as his " Lehrbuch .
" XY11 Wohler finished up his stay in the north by a scientific journey through Scandinavia in company with Berzelius and the two Brong-niarts .
The most interesting part of this excursion was a visit paid to the copper and-silver mines of Fahlun , rich in mineral and geological treasures , and remarkable for the deep chasms which were formed centuries ago by the falling in of immense vaults .
During this journey Wohler was fortunate enough to get acquainted with several distinguished men of science , among them Sir Humphry Davy and Hisinger , whose mineralogical geography he afterwards translated into German . .
With much regret Wohler at last parted with his friend and teacher Berzelius and returned to Frankfort .
His idea had been to settle down in Heidelberg as Private Docent , but he was at once appointed lecturer in the newly established Gewerbeschule ( Mechanics ' Institute ) at Berlin , and there he remained from 1825 to 1832 , when family affairs decided him to move to Cassel .
It was in this same year 1825 that Wohler became acquainted with Liebig , who was about his own age , and henceforth they were in constant intercourse .
Liebig had become Professor of Chemistry at Giessen at the age of twenty-one , in the year 1824 , and he followed Wohler 's work with all the greater interest because his own lay very much in the same direction .
, These two investigators had each discovered a substance which according to minute analysis were composed of precisely equal quantities of the same elements .
At that time it seemed like a paradox to say that two such different bodies as cyanic acid discovered by Wohler , and fulminic acid which Liebig had examined , could have the same composition , for identity of composition in conjunction with difference of property was at that time quite unintelligible .
Another research of far greater importance to the theory of organic compounds was an investigation made in the year 1832 of oil of bitter almonds and of benzoic acid .
From these analytical experiments resulted a series o new compounds which were connected together by the fact of t eir a containing one particular group of atoms to which was given the name of benzoyl radical .
Thus by one stroke was the connexion between all the members of this series of compounds made clear .
The impression made by this research on contemporary chemists is plain from a letter written by Berzelius to the two investigators , in which he proposes for benzoyl the fanciful name " prom " ( daybreak ) , or otherwise " dawn , " because with the discovery of this radical a new day seemed to dawn for chemical science .
A new day had indeed dawned for chemistry , and after fifty years the noon of this day shows us a vast number of substances with the most beautiful properties , some with the most brilliant colours , others of great value in medicine and surgery , all of which have been disYOL .
XXXV .
xviii covered by methods of investigation similar to those pursued by Wohler and Liebig .
We must not , however , omit to mention other researches carried out during Wohler 's stay in Berlin and Cassel , and which are no less important than the work he did with Liebig .
His researches extended into every department of chemistry .
In 1826 he succeeded in finding a method for obtaining nickel and cobalt from their ores free from arsenic , and thereby laid the foundation of an extensive industry .
His appointment as teacher of the new manufacturing school gave him opportunities of helping industries connected with chemistry , and he became more conversant with such industries through a visit he paid to France in 1833 , and to England in 1835 .
In inorganic chemistry we owe to him the discovery of three new elements , that of aluminium ( in 1827 ) of beryllium and of yttrium , besides various other beautiful discoveries .
We have mentioned that in 1823 Wohler had gained a prize for a research in physiological chemistry on excretions from animal organisms . .
We must also mention his interesting discoveries in chemical physics .
While examining the crystallisation of arsenious acid and of oxide of antimony , he noticed the remarkable fact that each of these bodies appears in two distinct crystalline forms .
But in organic chemistry we have yet to mention a discovery made by Wohler in the year 1828 , which , were it his only discovery , would entitle him to a place of honour in the history of that branch of the science , namely , the artificial formation of urea .
In the previous century , as chemists became more and more occupied with animal and vegetable compounds , they had begun to classify chemical substances under the three headings of mineral , vegetable , and animal , but on account of the similarity between the two latter categories Lavoisier placed them in one class , which he called organic in contradistinction to the mineral or inorganic bodies .
Rouelle had found when examining urine in 1773 a beautiful crystalline organic substance .
This was more minutely examined in 1779 by Fourcroy and Vauquelin and named urea .
In 1828 Wohler obtained these same long , white , glistening , needle-like crystals without the aid of any animal organism by gently heating the ammonia salt of cyanic acid .
This artificial production of an organic body at once abolished the doctrine of a distinct boundary line between organic and inorganic chemistry , together with the doctrine of vital force .
Shortly after this discovery Wohler was appointed Professor of Chemistry to the Medical Faculty in the University of Gottingen , and about the same time he became Inspector-General of Pharmacies in the Kingdom of Hanover .
Wohler now began a long and useful career of teaching .
The XIX celebrated Gottingen Laboratory was built under bis directions , and here he continued to work assiduously at his science .
Some hundreds of researches testify to the diligence with which he worked during these years .
Up to the year 1862 " PoggendorfE 's Annalen " already contained 225 papers by Wohler .
Students flocked from all parts of the world to study under his guidance .
Wohler 's work " Der Gundriss der Chemie , " of which new editions have appeared from time to time until quite recently , has been translated into English , French , Dutch , Swedish , and Danish .
His book " Mineralanalyse in Beijnelen " also passed through several editions .
From 1838 Wohler was Liebig 's colleague in editing the " Annalen der Chemie und Pharmacie , " and he published in conjunction with Liebig and others the " Handworterbuch der Chemie " ( Dictionary of Chemistry ) .
It is hardly necessary to mention that Wohler received numerous honours and distinctions .
Scientific societies were glad to number him among their members .
The German Chemical Society elected him President .
He was Knight of the Order " Pour le Merit .
" He was elected a foreign member of the Royal Society in 1854 , and received the Copley Medal in 1872 .
On his eightieth birthday his friends , pupils , and colleagues presented to him a beautifully executed relief in marble of himself , together with a gold medal struck in his honour .
Of late years Wohler bad ceased to work at research , although he continued to teach and occasionally to publish short papers .
A letter written in 1878 to Dr. Victor Meyer gives a good idea of the spirit of quiet contemplation in which the old man rested from his labouis .
A few words are necessary to explain the occasion of this letter .
In the'summer of 1878 Victor Meyer bad been giving to his students a somewhat detailed account of the discovery of urea , when it suddenly occurred to him that it was just fifty years since this synthesis had been accomplished by Wohler , which fact he mentioned to his class .
The consequence was that after the lecture the students sent Wohler a telegram of congratulation , to which was appended a large number of signatures .
The following letter came shortly afterwards in reply\#151 ; .
Gottingen , 26 .
Juni 1878 .
Hoch verehrter Herr College !
Sie haben mir die Ehre erwiesen in Ihrer Vorlesung meiner zu gedenken , und haben das Interesse an dem Gegenstande Ihres Vortrages bei Ihren Zuhorern so lebendig zu erregen verstanden , dass dieselben veranlasst wurden durcli ein in liebenswiirdigster Form abgefasstes Telegramm mir ihre Gliickwiinsche zu dem funfzigjahrlichen Jubilaum der kunstlichen Bildung des Harnstoffs darzubringen .
Iehbirte Sie , Ihren Herren Zuhorern fur diese uberaus freundliche Aufmerksamkeit d VOL. XXXV .
XX tneinen warmsten Dank ausdrlicken zu wollen und ihnen zu sagen , dass sie mich doppelt erfreut hat als ein Zeichen , dass \#169 ; in alter Ghemiker , dessen Krafte nicht mehr gestatten , sich an dem weiteren Aufbau der Wissenschaft selbst nocb zu betheiligen , von der jungeren Generation nicbt ganz vergessen ist , deren raschen Fortschritten und wundervollen Erfolgen aber immer noch seine Freude bat , gleieh dem alten Fulirmann , der selbst nicbt mehr fahren kann , aber das lustige Peitscbenknallen der jungeren nocb gerne horen mag .
Mit vorziiglicher Hocbacbtnng , Ihr ganz ergebenster , Wohler .
Wohler passed the eighty-second anniversary of his birth last summer in good health , surrounded by his children , grandchildren , and great grandchildren , and in the course of the day received visits from various friends , colleagues , and pupils .
He kept well through the month of August , and enjoyed sitting out in his garden during the warm summer weather .
On the 18th September he did not go out on account of the coldness of the weather , and in the course of the evening was seized with a shivering fit .
Fever soon came on , and on the 23rd September he breathed his last .
In accordance with his express wish his funeral was simple .
The service was conducted in the house by the University preacher .
A long procession of mourners followed the body to the cemetery .
Wohler was twice married .
His first wife , Franziska , daughter of Staatsrath Wohler , whom he married in 1830 , died in 1832 , leaving him a son and a daughter .
In 1834 he married Julie Pfeiffer , daughter of a banker in Cassel , by whom he had four daughters , and who survives him .
Two daughters remain unmarried\#151 ; one of whom , Fraulein Emilie W^ohler , long acted as her father 's secretary .
A charming account of Wohler 's stay with Berzelius in Sweden , written by himself , is to be found in No. 12 of the " Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesellsohaft , " 1875 , under the title " Jugend-ex*innerungen eines Chemikers .
" Francis Maitland Balfour , the sixth child and third son of James Maitland Balfour , of Whittinghame , Haddingtonshire , and Lady Blanch , daughter of the second Marquis of Salisbury , was born in Edinburgh on the 10th November , 1851 .
His father died of phthisis in 1856 , at the early age of 36 , and his own health was for several years far from being strong , so that at times his friends were not without anxiety lest he too should be attacked with the same malady .
The beginnings of Balfour 's scientific career may be traced to the influence of his mother , who endeavoured to cultivate in all her xxi children some taste for natural science or natural history .
Under her guidance the children early formed a geological collection , beginning with fossils picked from the gravel t in front of the house ; in this collection , little Frank , as yet only seven or eight years old , interested himself greatly , and when offered the choice of a birthday present , begged for a large box , with trays and divisions , for holding fossils .
The love for geology thus started grew strong in him during his boyhood ; and , indeed , this continued to be his favourite study until he went to Cambridge .
At the same time he was also drawn to natural history , making a collection not only of butterflies , as most boys do , but also of birds , having learnt how to prepare and preserve skins .
After spending some little time at Hoddesdon , in Hertfordshire , at the preparatory school of the Rev. C. B. Chittenden , he entered at Harrow in 1865 .
His love of science was daily growing stronger , but the ordinary school studies awakened very little interest in him ; and at Harrow , as at Hoddesdon , he was not very successful in the routine class work .
He was left-handed , and in his early days somewhat awkward in muscular exercises , though later on he overcame his deficiencies in this respect , and not only acquired great skill in anatomical and microscopical manipulation , but became an expert Alpine climber .
A similar inaptitude to learn by mere imitation followed him into his school work ; writing was a trouble to him , and , indeed , spelling no less so ; hence his school career gave no promise of the achievements which were to come .
Happily , even at that time , science was cared for at Harrow , and , in the scientific teaching of Mr. G. Griffith , Balfour found a satisfaction which he failed to get from his class work .
Though these science studies were , so to speak , extra academical , he threw himself into them with great enthusiasm , and his future life was perhaps foreshadowed by the delight he showed when the Rev. A. E. Eaton , on a visit to Harrow , taught him the art of dissecting under water .
Geology still , however , remained his favourite study .
In 1868 , he sent up , in competition for a prize , an essay on the geology and natural history of East Lothian .
This and another essay , by Mr. A. Evans , son of Mr. J. Evans , F.R.S. , were considered to be of such unusual worth that Professor Huxley was specially requested to adjudicate on them ; the two essays received equal prizes .
The substance of his essay , Balfour , in conjunction with his brother , Mr. Gerald Balfour ( afterwards with Francis a Fellow of Trinity College ) , subsequently elaborated into a paper " On some points in the Geology of the East Lothian Coast , " which was published in the " Geological Magazine " for 1872 .
^ .
In 1870 he left Harrow for Cambridge with the reputation of a boy not likely to distinguish himself greatly in ordinary University xxii studies , but still as one who by his great natural abilities , and especially by the force of his strong character , bade fair to make his mark somewhere .
In the October term of that year he went into residence at Trinity College , Cambridge , his college tutor being Mr. J. Prior .
He early placed himself under the private tuition of Mr. Marlborough Pryor ( who had just been elected the first Natural Science Fellow at Trinity College ) , and after passing , at Christmas , the " Previous Examination , " devoted himself entirely to natural science .
In Mr. Marlborough Pryor he found a friend of remarkably wide knowledge and sound judgment , who not only so well directed his pupil 's studies , that at Easter , Balfour was , without hesitation , elected Natural Science Scholar at his college , but carefully matured those higher scientific qualities which are rarely tested in any examination .
After Christmas Balfour attended the lectures of Dr. Michael Foster , who had been called to Trinity College , Cambridge , as Prae-lector , at the same time that Balfour entered as a student .
In a course of lectures on embryology , given by the latter in the following Easter term , Balfour was especially interested , and he soon after definitely made up his mind to devote himself to the study of animal morphology .
Before long he was invited by Dr. Foster to join him in preparing for publication the lectures on embryology , which the latter had given , and with that end in view began original inquiry by attempting to investigate certain obscure points in the history of the chick .
The results of these studies were subsequently published in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science " ( July , 1873 ) , as three papers " On the Development and Growth of the Layers of the Blastoderm , " " On the Disappearance of the Primitive Groove in the Embryo Chick , " and " On the Development of the Blood-vessels of the Chick .
" Some of the views enunciated in these early papers were naturally modified by later experience , but the observations on the primitive streak are interesting as forming the starting point of views which Balfour developed more fully afterwards .
These investigations , and others not recorded in any special papers , but made use of in the little work " Elements of Embryology " ( 1874 ) , by Dr. Foster and himself , occupied so much of Balfour 's time and energy , that he was unable to do much in the way of formal preparation for his degree .
Nevertheless , he nearly succeeded in obtaining the first place in the Natural Sciences Tripos in December , 1873 ; this fell to Mr. H. Newell-Martin , now Professor at Baltimore , United States , America , Balfour being placed second .
Immediately after his degree he started , in company with his friend Mr. A. Dew-Smith , for Naples , to occupy at the Statione Zoologica of Dr. Anton Dohrn one of the tables at the disposal of xxiii the University of Cambridge , and began those researches oh the development of Elasmobranchs with which his name will be ever associated .
Before leaving Naples in the following summer he had not only obtained some striking results as to the development of the layers of the blastoderm , but had in reality solved the difficult problem of the nature and origin of the urogenital system of vertebrates .
The work done in Naples showed talents of so high an order that in the following October ( 1874 ) Balfour was on account of \#171 ; it unhesitatingly elected a Fellow of his College .
The following winter he spent in a visit to South America with his friend Marl- ^ borough Pryor , but returning in the spring of 1875 resumed his / ' investigations at Naples .
/ He had , at the meeting of the British Association at Belfast , in August , 1874 , made a brief statement of his researches , and in October of the same xyear published a preliminary account in the " Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science .
" In the course of 1875 he contributed to the " Journal of Anatomy and Physiology " a paper on the Urogenital Organs of Elasmobranehs , and laid before the Royal Society an account of the development of the spinal nerves in those animals , which was subsequently published in the " Philosophical Transactions .
" He now commenced in the " Journal of Anatomy and Physiology " a series of papers ( the first of which was published in January , 1876 ) , giving a complete account of the development of the Elasmobranchs .
These were afterwards ( 1878 ) republished as a monograph .
In the course of the summer of 1875 , arrangements were made for him to deliver at Cambridge a course of lectures on animal morpho-logy .
These he began in the following October , and soon after his position was secured by his being appointed as lecturer to his College , though his lectures as before continued to be delivered in the University buildings , and to be open to all students of the University .
Beginning with a very small audience , he rapidly drew students to him by the powerful way in which he taught as well as by the interest which he showed in the progress of each individual pupil .
In spite of the time and energy taken up in organising and carrying on -these lectures , he himself always assisting in the accompanying practical exercises , he pursued with unflagging ardour his original investigations .
No sooner had he finished the monograph on the Elasmobranchs , than he set himself to write a complete treatise on Comparative Embryology .
The value of this work , the first volume of which , treating of invertebrates , appeared in 1880 , and the second , of vertebrates , in 1881 , cannot easily be exaggerated .
It is not only a masterly digest , in which the enormous number of observations made during the last quarter of a century , and especially during the last decennium , are marshalled in proper order , and their nature and xxiv significance clearly and acutely explained ; it also contains , one might say in almost every page of the two thick volumes , the record of original , often laborious inquiries , to which the author was stimulated sometimes for the sake of verifying the statements of other observers , but more frequently for the purpose of solving morphological problems which presented themselves to him as the work went on .
Some of the larger results , which thus sprang out of the work , elaborated as inquiries carried out by himself , or through him by his pupils , were published as separate papers ; but even when these are accounted for , there still remains imbedded so to speak in the work , an enormous amount of original work , in the form both of new facts observed by himself and of luminous interpretations of the facts which others had recorded , but whose true meaning others had failed to see .
Parts of his vacations were spent in trips or longer voyages , for the sake of health and amusement .
In this way he twice visited Finland , and spent a Christmas in Greece ; but he always contrived , even in the midst of his pleasures , to make his holidays help in his work .
He paid repeated visits to Naples , and indeed he was from the beginning one of the staunchest and most valuable friends of Dr. Dohrn and of the Stations Zoologica .
He was on a visit to his friend Prof. Kleinenberg , at Messina , in the Christmas of 1881 , buoyant with the feeling of relief at having completed the Comparative Embryology , when , staying at Naples on his way , he found a pupil who had been sent by the University of Cambridge to study at the Statione Zoologica , lying sick of typhoid fever at Capri .
With characteristic unselfish tenderness , Balfour set himself to nurse his pupil until the young man 's friends could arrive .
There can be no doubt that he thus caught the malady , for in January ( 1882 ) , soon after his return to Cambridge , he himself was laid up with an attack of typhoid fever , which threatened to be severe , but happily passed off well .
Some time before this great endeavours had been made to induce him to become a candidate for the chair at Oxford left vacant by the lamented death of Professor G. Rolleston , and afterwards he was even more vigorously urged to accept a nomination to succeed the late Sir Wyville Thomson in the chair of Natural History at Edinburgh , perhaps the best endowed and most conspicuous biological chair in the United Kingdom .
He refused , however , to leave his own University , though his position there was simply that of a college lecturer and he had no post in the University itself .
Moved by the peril of thus losing one of the brightest and most promising of its alumni , the University , at the instigation of Balfour 's friends , took a most unusual step , and the Council , with the approval of the whole University , instituted a new chair for Balfour himself , and in March , 1882 , he was elected Professor of Animal Morphology .
On his return from a visit to Naples in the summer of 1876 , he XXV stayed for some little time in Switzerland , and apparently then was first taken with the love of Alpine climbing , though it was not till the summer of 1880 that he made any difficult ascents .
The fondness for this exercise , the beneficial effects of which on his health were most striking and encouraging , grew upon him in the following years .
In the summer of 1881 he passed some weeks in Switzerland , in company with his brother , Mr. Gerald Balfour , and by his feats on that occasion placed himself at once in the front rank of Alpine climbers .
In the summer of 1882 he thought , and even the most cautious of his friends thought with him , that the Alpine air and mode of life would remove the last traces of weakness which the typhoid fever had left behind , and in June he started , full of spirits , for Switzerland .
After some two or three weeks or so of climbing , during which he felt his strength quite come back , the old remedy acting with its usual charm , he set off from Courmayeur , with his guide , Johann Petrus , on Tuesday , July 18 , to ascend the neighbouring Aiguille Blanch , a hitherto virgin peak .
But he never came back alive .
On the following Sunday an exploring party found his remains and those of his guide lying high up on the mountains at the foot of a couloir .
The exact time and manner of his death will never be known , but it is probable that the fatal fall took place on Wednesday , the 19th ; it is almost certain that death was instantaneous , and it is the opinion of some that in the accident the guide fell first and carried Balfour with him .
The body was brought home to England and buried at Whittinghame .
To describe in a few words Balfour 's contributions to biological science is a difficult or rather an impossible task , for brief as was his life , his active brain had traversed a large and varied area of thought and observation .
The leading idea which guided him in all his work was to use the facts of embryology to explain the development of animal life , to make the evolution of the individual throw light on the evolution of races and kinds .
This idea was of course no new one ; indeed it has guided nearly all morphological inquiries since Darwin 's labours , as , in a way , it did some before .
But it was Balfour 's distinguishing feature and merit that while his lively imagination opened up to him all manner of bold views and stinking hypotheses , a strict logical sense forbade him to confound a mere possible or likely suggestion with a proven truth .
The value of his work lay in this , that when he had conceived an idea he left no means untried to test its worth , and the charm of his writings consists as well in the clear and strong way in which he lays down proofs of the things which he considered proven , as in the frank candour with which he sets forth the difficulties of a probable , but as yet uncertain , opinion .
Perhaps the most striking and complete of his works is that in which in a masterly way he furnished adequate proof of the view ( which had occurred to others as well as himself^ that the urogenital xxvi organs of vertebrates are the derivatives of the segmental organs of Vermes , thus forging a strong link in the chain which holds together all animal life .
Of still wider import , and perhaps still greater value , was his elaboration of views , begun in his apprentice work on the Primitive Streak , and continued even into those last investigations which his sad death left unfinished , on what may be spoken of as the general formation of the complex animal bodies , and especially on the relation of the alimentary canal to other parts .
Balfour early saw that certain vanishing grooves and holes and burrows in the embryos of higher vertebrates were the traces of the ways in which these higher forms had been evolved from lower ones , and all his work through he left no stone unturned , i.e. , no specimen or section unsearched , in his efforts to fill up gaps of evidence , and thus to make the whole story clear .
The same guiding principle , the same logical method , the same clear distinction between the proven and the probable are also seen in his remarkable memoir on the Spinal Nerves of Elasmobranchs ( which threw almost as much light on the genesis of the vertebrate nervous system as his earlier work did on the urogenital organs ) , and , indeed , are conspicuous in every one of his separate papers , including the unfinished fragments on Peripatus , as well as in every page of the incomparable " Comparative Embryology .
" He was unwearied in his labours , sitting for hours together preparing and examining section after section ; but others have been as unwearied as he .
To him belonged that part of genius , which kept him from being buried beneath accumulated facts , and gave him the power to seize at once upon the new salient fact as soon as it appeared , to develope its meaning , and to carry its teaching home to others by solid irrefragable reasoning .
Balfour will be known hereafter as a brilliant morphologist , as one who busied himself with high questions of theoretic import ; but there was also another side to even his biologic character .
Much of the progress of biology has been due to the labours of men to whom perhaps more rightly belongs the title of naturalist ; men who often do not vex themselves with the more abstract problems of morphology , but born with an innate love of living things , quietly gather facts and work out truths , putting together their results in the guise for the most part of some taxonomic inquiry .
Naturalists of this stamp are generally born such , not made , whereas a man of adequate mental strength may become an accomplished morphologist without feeling any real sympathy with concrete animal life ; he may be carried on by the mere interest of purely intellectual questions .
Now Balfour , like his master , Darwin , was a born naturalist ; his knowledge and appreciation of the concrete characters of the individual were as striking as the power which he displayed in-dealing with abstract xxvii theories .
He " knew his British birds " as few others did ; nor was his knowledge of species limited to these ; and , indeed , had he lived to complete the monograph on Thysanoura , for which he had been long collecting materials , this would probably have placed him in the very foremost rank of British taxonomists .
He was , as we have said , a geologist who became a biologist , but his sympathies with all science remained wide and deep .
His knowledge of physics , as far as it went , was singularly clear and sound ; his judgment on intricate physiological questions was often of the greatest use to his friends at Cambridge .
He was an ardent politician , he possessed great sympathy with art , and in the business of his College and University , as well as in other matters , showed administrative abilities of the very highest order .
He had in him all the making of a great man , and his greatness would have been felt whatever had been the things to which he turned his hand ; and no small part of the power with which , even in his few years , he had already begun to influence others , sprang from those qualities which , by a common but misleading analysis , we call moral as distinguished from intellectual .
According to the degree to which their intimacy with him grew , those who got to know him were charmed with his kindly courteousness , fascinated with his brilliant , cheerful , often playful , companionship , held fast by his warmhearted , steadfast friendship .
The feeble found him a patient helper ; meanness , untruthfulness , and conceited stupidity were alone able to provoke him to anger , and to show what powers of scorn and sarcasm lay hidden in him .
Though he died so young , his great merits were already rapidly gaining due recognition .
He became a Fellow of the Society in June , 1878 ; on him , in November , 1881 , was bestowed one of the Royal medals , and at the same time he was elected member of Council .
In the spring of 1881 he received the honorary LL. D. of Glasgow , and at the time of his death he was President of the Cambridge Philosophical Society , having been elected to that position in October , 1881 .
3o JL w'e have already spoken of the eagerness shown both at Oxford and Edinburgh to gain him , and of the steps taken at his own University to keep him .
For one brief term only was he professor , and even during that term , owing to his previous illness , he gave no lectures ; now , instead of his bright presence , there is left at Cambridge ' only his memory and the wish to carry on the work he left undone .
M. F. VOL. XXXV .
e

