" On the Supra-renal , Thymus and Thyroid Bodies .
" By John Goodsir , Esq. Communicated by Richard Owen , Esq. , F.R.S. &amp;c. In this paper , the author enters on the developement of the theory he advanced two years ago with regard to the origin and nature of the supra-renal , thymus and thyroid bodies , and the correctness of which , with certain modifications , he has been enabled to confirm by subsequent observation and reflection .
His hypothesis was that the three organs in question are the remains of the blastoderma ; the thyroid being the developement of a portion of the original cellular substance of the germinal membrane grouped around the two branches of the omphalo-mesenteric vein ; the supra-renal capsules , the developements of other portions grouped around the omphalomesenteric arteries ; and the thymus , the developement of the intermediate portion of the membrane arranged along the sides of the embryonic visceral cavity .
He has since ascertained , however , that the thyroid body derives its origin in a portion of the included membrana intermedia remaining in connexion with anastomosing vessels between the first and second aortic arches , or carotid and subclavian vessels .
He considers these organs as essentially similar in their structure , as well as in their origin in continuous portions of the blastoderma situated along each side of the spine , and extending from the Wolfian bodies to the base of the cranium : the developement of the supra-renal capsules having relation to the omphalomesenteric vessels ; the thymus , to the jugular and cardinal veins and ductus Cuvieri ; and the thyroid gland , to the anastomosing branches of the first and second aortic arches .
The functions of these organs he regards as being analogous to those of the blastoderma ; with this difference , however , that as the blastoderma not only elaborates nourishment for the embryo , but absorbs it also from without , that is , from the yolk , the developed organs only elaborate the matter which has already been absorbed by the other parts , and is now circulating in the vessels of the more perfect individual .

