]\gt ; 97 ] III .
BAKERIAN LECTURE.\mdash ; The of Explosion in Gase HAROLD B. DIXON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Balliol ollege , Oxford ; ssor of in Owens Coltege , Recoived July 8 , 189 \mdash ; Rcad CAP .
THE experiments described this memoir were undeltaken with two objects : in he first place , to obtain information concel.ning the of chemical pursued reacting gases ; and , secondly , to examine the nature of the explosion-wave\ldquo ; in seous m discovered by M. BERTHELOT .
The idea of using the rate of osion as a ; of the COUl.se of a chemical reaction occurred to me in 1877 , when investigating the influence of steam on the union of carbonic oxide and oxyge1 ] .
If steam acts as a of oxygen to the carbonic oxide by a series of alternate reductions and oxidatiolJs , an increase in the tmount of steam , beyond that required to initiate the eactiun , should ) accompanied by an increase in the rate of combination up to a in limit .
Attempts were therefore made to detect such an increase by measuring the velocit ) of the flame in a tube .
* But while the difference in the rate of explosion between the nearly dry and the moist gases was well marked , the attempts to directly measure the rate of the explosion of the moist gases iled , owing to the rapidity of the flame .
In the spring of 1881 I attempted to measure the explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen with varying quantity of steam by pbotographing on a moving plate the flashes at the beginning and end of a closed tube 20 feet long .
The two flashes appeared to be to the eye , but no of the rate was obtained , for the apparatus was broken to pieces by the oi the explosion .
Shortly after was made the first of the o$ papers by MM .
BERTHELOT and VIEILLE , and by MM .
MALLARD aIlcl L was read before the French Academy of Sciences .
The work of these ench chemists has opened a new era in the theory of explosions .
* ' Phi ] .
Trans 1884 , Pt. Il , p. Thirty-five years ago BUNSEN described a method of measuring the rapidity of the flame in gas explosions .
Passing a mixture of explosive gases through an orifice at the end of a tube and igniting the gases as they issued into the air , he determined the rate at which the gases must be driven through the tube to prevent the flame passing back through the opening .
By this method he found that the rate of propagation of the ignition of hydrogen and oxygen was 34 metres per second , while the rate of ignition of carbonic oxide and oxygen was less than 1 metre per second .
BUNSEN appiied these results to the of explosion of in closed vessels : his results were without for four and twenty years .
By 1880 facts began to accumulate which seemed inconsistent with BUNSEN'S conclusions .
For instance , between lS76-80 I had several times observed that the flame produced by igniting a mixture of moist carbonic oxide and oxygen travelled in a long eudiometer too quickly to be followed by the eye .
Again , Mr. A. V. HARCOURT , in his investigation of an explosion of coal-gas and air , which happened in a large gas main near the Tottenham Court Road in 1880 , was led to the concIusion that the flame travelled at a rate exceeding 100 yards per second .
In the winter of 1880-1 I was startled by the rapid increase of velocity and violence as a flame of carbon bisulphide with nitric oxide travelled down a long glass vessel .
In July , 1881 , two papers appeared in the 'Comptes Rendus , ' one by M. BERTHELOT , the other by MM .
MALLARD and LE CHATELIER .
Both papers announced the discovery of the enormous velocity of explosion of gaseous mixtures .
Other papers quickly followed by the same authors .
M. BERTHELOT made the important discovery th the rate of explosion rapidly increases from its point of origin until it reaches a maximum which remains constant , however long the column of gases may be .
Each mixture of gases has a definite ximum velocity of explosion .
The rate of explosion thus forms a new physico-chemical constant , having important theoretical and practical bearings .
The name " " L'Onde Explosive\ldquo ; is given by BERTHELOT to the flame when propagated through an explosive mixture of gases at the maximum velocity .
While BERTHELOT , associated with VIEILLE , was measuring the rate of the " " explosion-wave ' ' for various mixtures of gases , MALLARD and LE CHAT .
ELIER continued the study of the preliminary phenomena of explosion which precede the formation of the " " wave They showed by phocographiog on a revolving cylinder:\mdash ; ( 1 ) that when a mixture such as nitric oxide and carbon bisulphide is ignited at the open end of a tube , the flame traveis a certain distance ( depending on the diameter and length of the tube ) at a uniform velocity ; ( 2 ) that at a certain point in the tube vibrations are set up , which alter the character of the flame , and that these vibrations become more intense , the flame swinging backw.ards and forwards with oscillations of increasing amplitude ; and ( 3 ) that the flame either goes out altogether , or the rest of the detonates with extreme velocity .
Again , when a mixture of gases was fired * Gasometrische Methoden , ' 1857 .
Reporb to the B of Trade .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THH ] ] ] OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
near the closed end of the tube , they found the velocity of the flame regularly increased , as far as their instruments were able to record the rapidly increasing pace .
Mixtures of coal-gas with air , and of fire-damp with air , show phenomena of the first and second kind .
Ignited at the open end of a tube these mixtures burn at a uniform rate for a certain distance , and then the flame begins to vibrate .
The vibrations acquire greater or less velocity according to the nature of the mixture and the conditions of the experiment ; but the third re'gime of uniform maximum velocity is not set up .
In narrow tubes the explosion soon dies out .
CAP .
IT.\mdash ; BERTHELOT'S EXPERIMENTS .
BERTHELOT'S experiments made partly with a tube of lead , and partly with a tnbe of thick caoutchouc , usually 5 mm. in internal diameter .
The rate of ) was determined by making the flame break two strips of thin tin stretched across the tube , each carrying a current .
The interval between the interruption of the two oircuits was measured by a Le Boulenge chronograph .
The gases were fired by an electric spark near one of the .
To ensure the fracture of the strips of tin a grain of fulminate was placed in a fold of the metal .
The tube was 40 metres long , and was supported on a wooden screen in horizontal layers .
The following are the chief concIusions reached by BERTHELOT concerning the propagation of explosion-wave in gases:\mdash ; ( 1 ) The propagation is uniform .
Measurements made in tubes of 20 , } metres length show the same velocity for the same -xtnre .
( 2 ) The veJocity is independent of bhe material of the tube : the explosion traveIs at the same rate in tubes of lead as in tubes of c , aoutchouc .
( 3 ) The velocity is independent of the diameter of the tube above a small limit : the explosion travels at the same rate in a tube of 5 mm. diameter as in a tube of 1 mm. diameter .
( 4 ) The velocity is independent of the pressure : the explosion travels at the same rate when the gas is under a pressure of mm. as it does under a pressure of 1580 mm. ( 5 ) The velocity of the explosion equals , or approximates closely to , the mean velocity of translation of the molecuIes at the mome1lt of combination , on the supposition that they retain all the heat developed in the reaction .
The rates of explosion of some twenty different mixtures agree with the by the formula of CLAUSIUS:\mdash ; where is the absolute temperature reached in the explosion , and the density of the products of combustion referred to : ither wxygen oitrous oxidePROFESSOR HIXON Ooticed tdRATE OXPLOSION IASES 1 TABLE .
\mdash ; Mixtures of Combustible ses with Oxygen .
With mixtules of hydrogen and carbonic oxide the formula is found to hold good .
BERTHELOT explains this by saying that " " the hydrogen communicates to the carbonic oxide a law of detonation analogous to its own The general concordance between the observed velocities and the calculated of translation of the molecules shows , according to BH : RTHEL0T , that dissociation plays but a small part in these phenomena , perhaps of the sure developed : a result which is confirmed by the fact that the velocities are found to be independent of the pressure .
A is next made between the rates of explosion of\ldquo ; isomeric mixtures i.e. , mixtures of rent gases which yield the same products of combustion .
For instance , the rate of explosion of marsh gas and oxygen is compared with the rate of explosion of a mixture of ethylene , hydrogen , and oxygen yielding identical products ; the object being to the influence of the individuaI gases burnt .
The conclusions are drawn .
excess .
Before the gases are diluted sufficiently to stop the explosion , there is found a marked ] off in the velocity .
The formula gives the theoretically highest rate the explosion can attain\mdash ; a maximum reached in few cases only , but approached in a large number .
Berthelot 's Conclusions .
These results show , according to BERTHELOT , that the velocity of the explosionwave constitutes , for each mmable mixture , a true specffic constant .
The wave is propagated by the impact of the products of combustion of one layer upon the unburnt gases in the next layer , and so on to the end of the tube at the rate of movement of the products of combustion themselves .
In a vord , the mean velocity of translation of the eous molecuIes retaining the total vis vivct which corresponds to the heat developed in the reaction be regarded as a limit representing the of propagation of the explosion-wave ( ' Sir la Force des Matieres Explosives , ' 1 , p. 159 ) .
If this theory is true , it accounts not only for the rapidity of explosion of gaseous mixtures , and gives us the means of calculating the maximum velocity PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE OF EXPLOSION GASHiS .
103 obtainable with any mixture of gases , but it also affords information on bhe specific heats of gases at very high temperatures , and it explains the phenomena of detonation whether of gases or of solid or liquid explosives .
EPETITION OF ExPERIMENTS .
S1 .
Objec.ts in View .
A consideration of BERTHELOT'S results , published in the 'Annales de Chimie ' in 1883 , led me to think it would be useful to repeat and extend these experiments .
The close coincidence between the rates of explosion of hydroge1l , both with oxygen and with nitrous oxide , and the calculated velocities of the products of combustion showed that the formula held good for gases which c , old readily be prepared in a pure state ; and , again , the great discordance between the found and calculated rates for carbonic oxide , both with oxygen and nibrous oxide , was what I should have expected from my own experiments on the part taken by steam in the oxidation of carbonic oxide .
On the other hand , BERTHELOT'S contention that the gases are heated at constant appeared improbable , and his results obtained with the addifion of an inert gas seemed to vary capriciously .
The chief objects I had in view in continuing these experiments were : ( 1 ) To determine as accurately as possible the rate of the explosion-wave for some simple mixtures under varying conditions , , diameter of tube , initial pressure , initial temperature .
( 2 ) To measure the rate of the explosion-wave in carbonic oxide and oxygen with differeut of ( 3 ) To compare the effect of inert gases and of excess of one or other of the reacting gases on the rate of explosion .
S2 .
Methods Apparatus used .
The mixtures of hydrogen , carbonic oxide , and marsh gas with oxygen were prepared in a graduated 5-feet iron gas-holder over water ; the mixtures containing ethylene , acetylene , cyanogen , and nitrous oxide were prepared in a 1-foot iron holder over mercury ; the mixtures of hydrogen and chlorine were passed directly from the generating and purifying apparatus into the explosion tube .
The gases were driven from the holders through drying vessels into the explosion tube by placing weights upon the lders .
When all air-traps were avoided in the tubes and connections , very little diffusion was found to occur in driving out the air by the explosive mixture .
One ' Drechsel\ldquo ; washing bottle and three packed with pumice , all containing boiled oil of vitriol , were usually employed as drying vessels .
When the explosive mixture contained either ethylene or acetylene * ' Ann. Chim .
et Phys [ V. ] vol. 28 ; also Sir la force des Matieres Hixplosives , ' vol. 1 .
, chap .
7 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
105 of the tube ; about four feet from the firing point , the flame broke a piece of silver foil stretched across the tube , the moment of rupture being marked on a moving plate by an electro-magnetic style .
On reaching the further end of the tube , the flame broke a second strip of silver , the moment of rupture being recorded by a second style .
To eliminate errors due to retardation of the electro-magnets , a blank experiment was made mediately before firing the gases .
The plate of the chronograph passed over two breaks , which could be adjusted so as to be broken by it at the same instant .
In the preliminary experiment , the circuits of the two magnets were completed through these two breaks , and were thus broken simultaneously , the two styles registering their marks on the moving plate .
The magnets , without their position being altered , were then connected with the silver bridges across the explosion tube , and the gases were fired by the moving plate striking oil or other of the two breaks .
The flame travelling down the tube broke the two silver bridges in turn , releasing the two styles , which again registered their marks on the moving plate .
The two marks made by the first style gave the interval of time between the spark and the breaking of the first bridge , independently of the error of the electro-magnet ; for both marks were equally affected by any error of retardation .
In the same way , the two marks made by the second style gave the interval of time between the spark and the breaking of bhe second bridge , independently of the error of the electro-magnet .
The difference between the intervals was the time taken by the flame to travel between the two bridges .
This method of cutting out the errors of the chronograph is only valid wlJen the current flowing through the electro-magnets is constant .
A small resistance coil was interposed in the preliminary experiment in each chronograph circuit , to match the resistance of the silver-bridge and connections used in the actual determination .
The current was supplied by a storage cell ( ELWELL and PARKER ) to each ] -magnet , and the time between the preliminary and the final experiment was never more than one minute .
In all the later portion of the work a confirmatory experiment was made after the gases were fired , the connections being made as in the preliminary .
In most cases the styles passed absolutely over the preliminary marks\mdash ; merely deepening the lines , thus showing that nothing had been displaced .
In some cases the preliminary and confirmatory marks were just visibly separated ; in these cases the mean position of the two was used to calculate the rate .
In the few instances in which the confirmatory did not closely agree with the marks the experiment was rejected .
In order further to eliminate errors of the instrument a second experiment was always made as soon as possible after the first , the connections of the chronograph being ] reversed\mdash ; the first style being connected with the second bridge , and vice versed .
The mean result of the two experiments is taken as one determination .
The chief differences between my apparatus and that employed by BERTHELOT were the following:\mdash ; PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE EXPLOSION IN GASES .
107 measurements of the rate were made at pressures varying from 200 mm , to 1500 mm. at a temperature close to C. In the experiments at low pressures it was , of course , essential the firing tube should be absolutely gas-tigh , ; the tube therefore tested before each experimenb .
An important fact concerning the develop- meant of the explosion-wave was detected in these experiments .
As the pressure was reduced the flame was found to travel a greater distance before its rate became con- stant ; so that , although four feet was allowed before the first measurement was taken , this distance was found insufficient .
Accordingly a tube 20 feet long was interposed between the firing point and the first bridge , after it had been shown that the flame acquired its maximum in this distance under the lowest pressure used .
Electrolytic gas can be exploded under lower pressures than 200 mm. , but the flame travels irregularly .
At 100 mm. pressure the flame went out in the tube , and at 150 mm. the rates found were not constant .
TABLE VI.\mdash ; Pressure Experiments .
These figures show that the rate of explosion increases rapidly with increase of from 200 mm. ; that the rate of increase diminishes , and that the velocity becomes nearly constant at two atmospheres pressure .
This effect of pressure on the rate is plainly seen when the results are expressed graphically ( see Plate 1 ) .
BERTHELOT'S conclusion that the explosion-wave is independent of the initial pressure of the gases is , therefore , not strictly accurate .
At lower pressures the rate falls off , but above a certain crucial pressure , which , in the case of hydrogen and oxygen , seems to be about two atmospheres , the velocity is independent of the pressure .
It will be observed that the mean rate of explosion of hydrogen and oxygen at 1500 mm. pressure is appreciably higher than BERTHELOT'S \mdash ; the calculated rate of translation of the steam molecules .
But BERTHELOT , in his calculation , has not taken into account the fact that the gases are not at absoIute zero to start with .
Assuming that he worked at about C. , the rate would be 2900 metres per second .
Analogous results were found in experiments with other mixtures under rying pressures .
With hydrogen and nitrous oxide the rate is slower at 500 mm. than at 760 mm. , but no increase is found on raising the pressure to 1000 mm. The crucial pressure is in this instance below the atmospheric pressure .
The same was found to be the case with marsh gas , ethylene , acetylene , and cyanogen exploded with oxygen .
In the following { able some of these results are shown:\mdash ; TABLE VII.\mdash ; Pressure Experiments .
( mm. tube).S5 .
Influence of on the Velocity of the Explosion-Wave .
BERTHELOT has published no experiments the inflnence of initial temperature on the explosion-wave ; but , if the wave is propagated in a manner analogous to a sound wave , it might be nticipated that an increase in the initial temperature of the gases would increase ths velocity .
The reverse effect is found in the explosion of hydrogen and oxygen .
Experiments made at C. and C. showed a small , but distinct , of the rate at the higher temperature .
The experiments were made alternately at the high and temperature , in order to eliminate the effect be produced by any mistake in the mixture or error in the chronograph .
The comparative xperiments made at 10agreed with those previously ined PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF LXPLOSION GASES .
109 under the same conditions , so that the results found must be accepted similar lowering of the rate at was found to occur at low and high pressures .
TABLE VIII .
UPERA TURE Experiments .
at 10 C. at different pressures .
When the rates at and varying pressures are compared graphically with the rates found at and varying pressures , it is seen that the two curves run parallel one with the other ( see fig. 1 on Plate 1 ) .
The explosion-rates of ethylene and oxygen at C. and C. were also compared .
Samples of the same mixture were exploded alternately at the low and at the higl ] temperature .
Five concordant determinations at C. gave a mean velocity of 2581 metres per second ; four concordant determinations at C. gave a mean velocity of 2538 metres per second .
Similar experiments were made with cyanogen .
TABLE IX .
RATE of Explosion of Ethylene and Oxygen .
* The expansion of the metal tube is taken into ccount in calculating the rates at 10 C. PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
111 flry , until a maximum velocity was attained when between 5 and 6 per cent. of steam was present .
The experiments were conducted in the following the " " dry\ldquo ; experiments the coil of pipe was heated and a current of dry air drawn through it , .
The mixture of carbonic oxide and oxygen was passed into the dry coil through drying apparatus , gonsisting of two wash-bottles and three pumice towers boiled oil of vitriol , and then two long tubes packed with anhydrous phosphoric acid .
The mixture under these conditions is called " " well-dried\ldquo ; ; it dily transmits the .
In the next experiments the phosphoric acid tubes were omitted ; the mixture is called dried.\ldquo ; For saturating the gases with steam the mixture was led through water in three small wash-bottles before entering the coil .
The first wash-bottle was kept about C. , the second about C. , and the third exactly above the temperature at which the mixture was to be exploded .
The last bottle and the connections between it and the coil were kept entirely surrounded by water .
rfhe gas , on its passage through the wash-bottles , carried over team , which was partly condensed in the cooler wash-bottles and in the coiJ .
While the gas was being admitted to the coil the water jacket was kept about above the final temperature required .
When the tube was full the source of heat was removed , and the water in the jacket well stirred .
When the exact temperature was reached the stop-cocks were closed and the gases fired .
This arrangement ensured that the gases were saturated with moisbure , and prevented any accumulation of liquid in the coil which might have retarded the explosion .
In the following table the mecm resuIts obtained with the dried and with the moistened gases are given:\mdash ; XI.\mdash ; Rate of Explosion of Carbonic Oxide and Oxygen saturated with Steam at Different Temperatures .
The maximum rate was obtained when the mixture was saturated at C.\mdash ; i.e. , contained per cent. of steam .
Excess of steam slowly retards the rate .
A few PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
113 CAP .
V.\mdash ; THE MODE OF 0F GASEOUS CARBON .
S1 .
The fact that carbonic oxide is not acted on directly by oxygen , even in the explosion-wave , points to the possibilily that the gase , ous and in other volatile carbon compounds , is not oxidised directly to carbonic acid when these gases are burnt with an excess of oxygen .
When cyanogen , for instance , is exploded with oxygen , the carbon may burn in one or in two stages .
Each atom may either combine directly with two atoms of oxygen to form carbonic acid , or each atom may combine first with a single atom of oxygen to form carbomc oxide , which afterwards combines with a second atom of oxygen to form carbonic acid .
If the oxidation is effected in two stages , the chemical change first occurring , , the oxidation of the carbon to carbonic oxide , must take place in the preserlce of an excess of oxygen .
Will this excess of oxygen influence the velocity with which the initiation of the chemical change is propagated , i.e. , the rate of explosion 2 The interest of tracing the course of any chemical change , and the scientific importance of this particular reaction , led me to study the influence of the presence of an excess of oxygen , and of inert gas , on the of explosion of gaseous \mdash ; with a view to obtain idence on their mode of burning .
S2 .
The rdation of the by Inert When electrolytic gas is mixed with oxygen , nitrogen , or steam , the explosionwave is retarded , the oxygen having most effect , the steam least .
For instance , the addition of one volume of steam to three volumes of electrolytic hydrogen and oxygen reduced the rate of explosion to 2494 metres per second in experiments made at C. At the same temperature the addition of one volume of nitrogen to three of electrolytic gas reduced the rate to 2402 metres per second .
According to BERTHELOT'S formula a retardation of this order was to be expected\mdash ; the greater specific heat of the steam being more than by the greater density of the nitrogen .
Experiments made with hydrogen and oxygen at ordinary temperatures , with successive additions of oxygen and of nitrogen respectively , showed that , so long as the explosion-wave was propagated in both cases , the retarding influence of nitrogen was less than that of an equal volume of .
Three volumes of electrolytic gas can be exploded with five volumes of nitrogen , but with seven volumes of nitrogen the explosion is not propagated through a long tube ; whereas three volumes of electrolytic gas can still be exploded when mixed with of oxygen .
But so long as the volume of nitrogen added is not sufficient to stop the explosion , the addition of this inert gas , incapable of taking in the chemical change , produces less effect than the addition of oxygen , one of the reacting substances .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
115 The explosion-vave , rapidly started in this mixture , was communicated to the dilute mixture beyond , without break of continuity , before the first bridge was reacbed .
A comparison between the few experiments made by BERTHELOT with diluted mixtures and the similar ones made by me will , I think , show the need of these .
To three volumes of electrolytic gas BERTHELOT added two volumes of nitrogen : the rate of explosion was found to be 2121 metres per second .
To three volumes of electrolytic gas he added four volumes of nitrogen : the rate of explosion was only 1439 metres per second .
By I find from my own experiments with one , three , and five volumes ofnitrogen ( added to three volumes of electrolytic gas ) the rates 2200 and 1930 , for the explosion of electrolytic gas with two volumes and four volumes of nitrogen respectivly .
The first agrees irly with number , the second is far higher than his .
I imagine in the second case the interrupter was oken before the explosion-wave was ished in his experiment .
Similarly , in experiments with cyanogen , BERTHELOT found a rapid falling off of the rate which I did not .
On firin a mixture of with twice its volume of oxygen and one volume of nitrogen , he found the rate to be 2044 metres ; on adding another volume of nitrogen the rate fell to 1203 metres .
By interpolation I find from my experiments 2125 and 1960 as the rates of these two mixtures .
The first agrees with , the second is far higher tLan , BERTHELOT'S number .
The mean resuIts obtained in a number of experiments on the etarding effect of oxygen and nitrogen are given in the following table:\mdash ; TABLE XIII.\mdash ; Electrolytic Gas wiih excess ( 1 ) of Oxygen and ( 2 ) of Nitrogen .
( 1 .
) These resuIts are shown aphically in fig. 3 , Plate 1 , where the ordinates are volumes of nitrogen ( or oxygen ) added to three volumes of electrolytic gas , and the abscissae are the rates of explosion of he mixtures in metres per second .
* See fig. 3 , Plate 1 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THHi RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
117 * oxygen sufficient to burn the carbon to carbonic oxide , the are the rates found when oxygen is added sufficient to burn the carbon to carbonic acid : . . . . .
gas The results are , therefore , in favour of the view that , in the explosion of these gases , the carbon is first burnt to carbonic oxide .
* But stronger evidence on this point is obtained by comparing the explosion lates of these gases ( 1 ) when fired with oxygen sufficient to burn the carbon in them to carbonic acid , and ( 2 ) when nitrogen is substituted for the oxygen in excess of that required to burn the carbon to carbonic oxide .
We have seen that oxygen , added to electrolytic gas , hinders the expIosion more than nitrogen .
In precisely the same way oxygen , added to a mixbure of equal , of cyanogen and oxygen , hinders the explosion more than the same volume of nitrogen .
The conclusion we must come to is , that the oxygen , added to the mixture expressed by the formula , is as inert ( so far as the propagation of the explosion-wave is concerned ) as oxygen added to the mixture expressed by the formula .
The same phenomena occur in the.explosion of marsh gas , ethylene , and acetylene .
The following tables contain the results of my last experiments on this subject .
The rates come out on the whole somewhat higher than in my earlier experiments .
This is mainly due to the later explosions having been made in a tnbe of larger diameter\mdash ; 9 mm. instead of mm. TABLE XIV.\mdash ; The Rate of Explosion of Cyanogen ( 1 ) with Oxygen , and ( 2 ) with Oxygen and Nitrogen .
( 1 .
) might be urged that , with defect of oxygen .
the reactions redly are\mdash ; 1 .
2 .
3 .
If this wore true , and 100 represenled the observed rates of explosion in each case , then on adding oxygen sufflcient for complete combustion , the rates should be 101 , 99 , and 107 respectively.\mdash ; Jan. , 1893 .
] PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
121 Mixtures .
Pressures .
atmosp heres .
It is difficult to reconcile these numbers with the received view as to the ning of carbon ; they are readily explained on the hypothesis that carbon burns in two stages .
BERTHELOT has also made some observatio1ls of the initial rate of explosion of cyanogen when burnt to carbonic oxide and when bnrnt to carbonic acid .
The time taken by the flame in travelling a distance of abont mm. from the point of inflammation was less for the incomplete than for the complete combustion ; a result which agrees with my measnrements of the rate of the explosion-wave in the two cases .
When a mixture of carbonic oxide , oxygen and nitrogen , a composition corresponding to the stage of the combustion of cyanogen , was fired in the same apparatus , the rate of the flame was found by BERTHELOT to be far slower than in the complete combustion of cyanogen:\mdash ; Time taken by flame to trave1130 mm. . . . . .
thousandths of a sec. . . . . .
1.55 \ldquo ; . . .
M. BERTHELOT adds:\mdash ; " " D'apres ces nombres , il ne paratt pas qne la coml ) ustion totale du cyanogene s'effectue en deux temps , en formant d'abord en totalite de l'oxyde de carbone qui brAlerait ensuite ; car la combustion totale est beancoup pJus rapide que la somme de ces deux effets separes * On first reading this passage I understood M. ' to mean that in complete combustion of cyanogen there was no intermediate formation of carbonic oxide .
But I am led to think that this interpretation cannot be correct for two reasons .
First , because the conditions of temperature and pressure are so entirely different in the two cases compared , that no argument drawn from one can be applied to the other .
In one case , a reaction is initiated in a mixture of carbonic oxide , oxygen , and nitrogen at the atmospheric temperature and pressure ; in the other , the same gases are at an enormously high temperature and pressure when the reacbion begins .
Secondly , because M. BERTHELOT , in the same paper , has drawn from analogous facts an argument in exactly opposite sense .
Having determined the initial rate of explosion of hydrogen and oxygen , and of carbonic oxide and oxygen * Ann. Chim .
et Phys [ VI .
] vol. 4 , p. 43 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
12.3 of carbonic oxide in abundance on the edge of the crimson zone ; but I ] lave left the further investigation of the structure of ths cyanogen flame to Professor A. SMITHELLS , who has devised a most ingenious method of separating the outer and inner cones of flame , formed when a mixture of a combustible gas and is burnt in a msen burner .
His experiments show that the cyanogen is destroyed in the inner red flame , and carbonic oxide is the main product of its oxidation there .
This carbonic oxide burns above , on reaching the air , with its well-known blue flame Chem. Soc. Journ 1892 , vol. 1 , p. 210 CAP .
\mdash ; THE REACTIONS 0F CARBONIC OXIDE 1N THE FLAME .
lf it be true that in a flame gaseous carbon burns to carbonic oxide , and that carbonic oxide reacts with steam ( if present ) to a limited extent , and is completely oxidised in presence of steam and oxygen , two questions arise : ( 1 ) What happens to the carbonic oxide first formed in the combustion of hydrocarbons or cyaJlogen with excess of oxygen ?
and ( 2 ) How do these secondary reactions affect the rate of explosion ?
In the case of cyanogen we should expect , if the gases are fairly dry , that the formation of carbonic acid would be comparatively slow , since no steam is formed in the reaction .
We find , in accordance with this expectation , that so long as the mixtures will explode , successive additions of oxygell retard the rate more than the additions of nitrogen\mdash ; just as in the case of electrolytic gas .
This means that in the cyanogen explosion the excess of oxygen and carbonic oxide are as inert towards each other ( as far as the propagation of the wave is concerned ) as the excess of oxygen and steam are in the explosion of electrolytic gas .
On the.other hand , the carbonic oxide formed in the explosion of hydrocarbons , with excess of oxygen , meets with the steam also formed in the flame .
This is the condition necessary for its most rapid oxidation .
We should expect , therefore , to find in the explosions of hydrocarbons that the retarding action of large quantities of oxygen is partly counteracted by this secondary reaction , for the oxygen in presence of the steam is not inert towards the carbonic oxide .
As a matter of fact , we find that the first additions of oxygen to the hydrocarbon mixtures retard more than nitrogen , but as the additions are continued the oxygen has less and less retarding influence compared with the nitrogen .
When carbonic oxide , which has the same density as nitrogen , is added to electrolytic gas , the retarding effect on the explosion is very nearly the same as when an equal volume of nitrogen is added:\mdash ; * The greenish.grey tint , observable in the outer flame , may be due to some oxide of nitrogen formed in the inner flame .
A little peroxide of nitrogen gives a similar tint to an ordinary Bunsen gas flame ; and peroxide of nitrogen is formed when cyanogen is burnt under certain conditions ( vide ' Chem. Soc. Journ 1886 , vol. 1 , p. 390 ) .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
125 TABLE XIX .
( 1 .
) oxygen } hydrogen }With addition o A study of these several tables brings us to the conclusion that secondary reactions , whereby carbonic oxide is oxidised in the flame , may affect the velocity of the wave to a smaller extent when the explosion is rapid , to a greaber extent when the explosion is slow .
CAP .
VII.\mdash ; ExAllINATIoN 0F BERTHELOT'S THEORY .
The measurements of the rate of explosion of the various gaseous mixtures described in Cap. V. permitted an extended comparison between the theoretical velocities calculated by BERTHELOT'S formula ( ) and the actual rates .
This comparison is made in the following ] for electrolytic gas , diluted with oxygen and with nitrogen ; for cyanogen burning to cal.bonic oxide , and when this mixture is diluted with nitrogen ; for marsh gas , ethylene , and acetylene , all burning to carbonic oxide and steam , and for the same gases diluted with nitrogen .
In calculating , I made a correction for the gases being at the ordinary temperature before explosion , and not at absolute zero ; the theoretical velocities are , therefore , rather higher than those given by BERTHELOT .
This correctio1l raises the theoretical velocity of explosion of electrolytic gas from 2831 metres per second ( BERTHELOT ) to 2900 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE EXPLOSION IN GASES .
127 to carbonic oxide and steam , he observed rates are higher than those given by the formula .
Again , when these are with nitrogen the rates come out higher than the formula predicts .
TABLE XXIII.\mdash ; Marsh Gas and Oxygen wit\circ ; C excess of Nitrogen added .
with addition oddition oftrogen For pure marsh gas and oxygen , the calculated velocity is per cent. too low ; when 3 voIumes of nitrogen are added , the calculated velocity is 10 per cent. too low .
The mixture cannot be detonated with a large excess of nitrogen .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
129 Here , as in the case , of electrolytic gas , the rate for the pure mixtule is in close agreement with the calculated veIocity .
Taken by itself , this experiment ( not tried by BERTHELOT ) would have offered strong confirmation of the correctness of the theory .
But as successive additions of nitrogen are made to the mixture , the calculated velocities fall bdow the observed rates , until , with a large excess of nitrogen , the calculated rate is 16 per cent. too low .
The gradual divergence betwee , the observed and the calculated rates of explosion for different gaseous mixtureS , as successive quantities of nitrogen were added to the pure explosive gas , led me to try the effect of diluting electrolytic gas with hydrogen .
According to BERTHELOT'S formula a shght increase in the rate should occur ; actually a very marked increase in the rate was observed .
TABLE XXVI.\mdash ; Rate of Explosion of Electrolytic Gas with excess of Hydroge , added .
To compare with this series of experiments , and with those given in Table XXI .
, of hydrogen and nitrous oxide was exploded ( 1 ) by , ( 2 ) with excess of hydrogen , and ( 3 ) with excess of nitrogen .
A similar divergence between the calculated and observed rates was found both when the mixture was diluted with hydrogen , and when it was diluted with nitrogen .
TABLE XXVII.\mdash ; Rate of Explosion of Hydrogen and Nitrous Oxide , with of ( 1 ) Hydrogen , ( 2 ) Nitrogen .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
131 The combustion of each layer produces both heat and at the same time the work necessary to compress the following layer\mdash ; that is to say , loses on this score just as much heat as it gained by its own compression .
The whole proceeds , as far as the elevation of temperature is concerned , precissly as if we had operated under constant pressure On the facts of the case there is no dispute .
The is exploded in a closed vessel .
Each layer is compressed before being fired ; after it compresses the layer beyond it .
Now , as regards this preliminary compressiolJ , each layer , in turn , expends the same energy as was previously communicated to it , and , therefore , it does no work of its own .
But a gas heated under conditions where it does no work is raised to the same temperature as it would be had its volume remained constant .
M. BERTHELOT admits that it would appear at first sight as if the gases were heated at constant volume ; he adds that the concordance of the calculated with the observed numbers supports his explanation of the phenomena .
Again , the fact that each layer is fired by compression involves the preliminary heating of that layer , and this heating must be added to the heat developed by its burning .
The temperature of the burning layer must , therefore , be greater than that obtained by dividing the heat developed in the chemical change by the specific heat of the products of combustion .
When a sound-wave alone is transmitted through a gas its shows that each layer of gas forming the wave-front is heated by compression , and ttJere is no reason why this should not happen when the compression is accompanied by a chemical change .
To what extent is each layer heated before combustion ?
MM .
MALLARD and CHATELIER* state that the explosion-wave will be propagated when each layer is brought by compression to its own temperature of inflammation .
For hydrogen and , they find this temperature to be about C. , and calcuIate that a pressure of 30 atmospheres must be exerted upon the gas to raise it to this point .
This temperature may be regarded as the lowest limit of the preliminary heating of each hyer before combustion .
But having regard to the fact that the individual molecules of hydrogen and oxygen in a yet unburnt layer may , in the interval of time between their meetings , be heated above the point at which they combine with each other , we cannot affirm that this limit of temperature may not be greatly surpassed in the explosion .
If we regard the transmission of the explosion to be due to the collisions of the molecuIes , and assume that molecules which are chemically inactive towards each other act as elastic bodies when they come into ] lision , and that molecules which combine chemically lose energy of translation and gain energy of vibration , then it must happen that unburnt molecules come into collision with burnt molecules and take up their energy in the form of motion .
For instance , in the explosion of hydrogen and chlorine , the energy of the ydrogen chloride formed be communicated by ' Recherches sir la combustion des Melanges Gazeux Explosifs , ' p. 88-91 .
urning oyanogen tarbonic oxide there iexpansion oumes tohydrogen aarbonic oxide tcontraction fhree vumes tosion which iounteracts torrection.tion ofinto account Ithere icorrection thanges oensity iethe meabed bnburnt 1ifference makenPROFESSOR HDIXON OXPLOSION 1ASES .
three .
* If each layer of the reacting gases is heated at constant voIume , a change in the number of molecules must affect the temperature reactled .
If the number of molecules is incrsased by the chemical change the temperature 1 from which the velocity of the wave is calculated will be higher than that directly deduced from calorimetric ) servations ; and vice versed .
In allowing for this ) ange we may suppose that the new formed molecules have been suddenly compressed or expanded , without loss of heat , into the volume previously occupied by the initial molecuIes , in which case the temperature would be altered according to RANKINE'S formula where and are the absolute temperatures , and the volumes before and after the reaction , and the atio of the specific heats at constant pressure and at constant volume .
CAP .
VIII.\mdash ; COMPARISON 0F THE RATE 0F EXPLOSION THAT 0F A SouND .
WAVE .
The criticisms which I have ventured to make 011 BERTHELOT'S method of calculating the mean rate of translation of the gaseous molecuIes in the propagation of the explosion-wave , tend to show that the rate so calculated must be too small .
But in attempting to apply corrections snggested by these criticisms , one is beset with difficuIties .
As an approximation I assume ( 1 ) that the explosion-wave is carried forward by the movements of molecules of density intermediate between that of the products of combustion and that of the unburnt gas ; ( 2 ) that the temperature of the gas propagating the wave is double that due to the chemical reaction alone ; ( 3 ) that the temperature is increased when the chemical volume of the products is larger , and is diminished when the chemical volume of the products is smaller than that of the initial gases ; ( 4 ) that the gases are heated at conbtant volume , and their specific heats remain constant at high temperatures .
On calculatin the mean rate of translation of the molecules on these assumptions one arrives at numbers greatly in excess of any of the observed rates of explosion ; but some of the observed rates agree with uelocity of sound in a gas of the temperature and density so calculated .
For instance , when one volume of cyanogen is exploded with an equal * M. BEBTIInLOT rightly ta , kes this into aocount in interpreting experiments on the temperature produced in explosions .
'Ann .
Chim .
et Phys [ V. ] , vol. 12 , p. PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
139 BERTHELOT'S formula , but falls far below the velocity of sound " " 2 On the other hand , the rate of explo.sion of ammonia and nitrous oxide is close to the calculated sound-wave and is far above " " TABLE XXXIII .
( 1 .
) ( 2 .
) Mixtures of oxygen with the hydrocarbons ethylene and acetylene will explode when largely diluted with nitrogen .
For instance , the explosion-wave is propagated in a mixture of oue volume of ethylene with two of oxygen and eighl of nitrogen .
The temperature reached in the explosion is comparable that produced when three volumes of electrolytic gas are fired with five volumes nitrogen .
It is found both with ethylene and acetylene that the rate of explosion exactly agrees with the calculated velocity of the sound-wave when the mixtures are Iargely diluted with nitrogen , but not when the gases exploded without dilution:\mdash ; PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
I43 of the wave the cooling due to expansion is so rapid that some molecules of hydrogen and oxygen , which are unburnt in the wave-front , have not time to combine before they are cooled below the temperature of combination .
In a leaden tube , 9 mm. in and 100 metres long , about 1 per cent. of electrolytic gas was found uncombined after the explosion .
That this incompleteness of combustion was not due to the cooling effect of the walls was shown by making comparative experiments in tubes 4 mm. and 19 mm. in diameter .
Nearly the same percentage of unburnt residue was found in all the tubes , and also when the gases were detonated in an iron bomb 100 mm. in diameter .
We have , therefore , positive evidence that in the explosion-wave the combustion of electrolytic gas is incomplete ; it seems , therefore , not unreasonable to assume that in the wave-front\mdash ; i.e. , at the highest temperature\mdash ; a considerable proportion of hydrogen and oxygen is uncombined , and the propagation of the wave is retarded accordingly .
The residual gases , left after the explosion of electrolytic gas , were examined for peroxide of hydrogen ; the water condensed on the tube was also washed out and examined .
In neither case could peroxide of hydrogen be detected .
If the view were correct that hydrogen and oxygen first form peroxide on explosion , it would seem kely that , in the rapid cooling , some of the peroxide would remain undecomposed , and be found in the residue .
In the explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen a similar residue of unburnt gas is indicating the dissociation of carbonic acid at the temperature of the wave .
No trace of peroxide of hydrogen could be detected in the tube .
These observations give no support to the view put forward by MORITZ TRAUBE * that steam promotes the oxidation of carbonic oxide by dividing with it the molecules of oxygen:\mdash ; and that the peroxide so formed is again reduced to steam by more carbonic oxide:\mdash ; CAP .
\mdash ; THE EXPLOSION 0F HYDROGEN AND CHLORINE .
The coincidences and the divergences found between the calculated and observed rates of explosion , as described above , made it important to examine a reaction in which no steam should be formed , and , if ible , one in which no alteration in volume should be produced .
The simplest case fulfilling these condibions is the explosion of hydrogen and chlorine ; a reaction which has the further advantage of forming , as the product of explosion , a gas which approximates to a perfect gas .
So * Bcr .
Dent .
Chem. Ges vol. 18 , p. 1890 .
See ' Chem. Soc. Journ 1886 , vol. 1 , p. 94 .
) PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
from all liquids but water , and , in the " " dry\ldquo ; experiments , oil of vitriol saturated with orine .
The drying apparatus consisted of a " " Winkler\ldquo ; worm , a series of bulbs , and a large -tube packed with pumice , all filled with boiled oil of vitriol .
The following table gives the mean of each pair of experiments with the dry and with the moist gases saturated at TABLE XXXVI.\mdash ; Rate of Explosion of Hydrogen and Chlorine .
It appeared , therefore , thab the explosion , once started , travelled at a slightly ster rate in the dry than in the wet gases , the steam to act merely as a diluent .
These experiments , together with the analysis of the mixture which issued from the end of the explosion tube , showed that it was possible to fill a long tube directOy from the electrolytic cell with hydrogen and chlorine in equal volumes , and that the mixture in a glass tube of 10 mm. diameter .
To prove the constancy of the rate of explosion , and at the same time to have a longer interval of time to measure , it was necessary to obtain a longer explosion tube .
The difficulty ofjoining up long pieces of unannealed glass-tubing led me to try the glass-lined wrought-iron tubing manufactured by Messrs. RYLANDS , at Barnsley .
Having found that this tubing answered the purpose , I made an explosion tube 40 yards long , and -inch diameter , by joining together a number of six-feet ]engths .
The junctions were made by fitting an asbestos washer on to the ends of each tube , and screwing them together with a nut .
The tube was supported at intervals by woodeu brackets fastened to the wall of a long corridor .
The explosion tube so put together was perfectly gas-tight ; it was unaffected by the chlorine passed into it during the experiments , and it stood the shock of many explosions without leaking .
This tube was filled , as before , direct from the electrolytic cell of aqueous hydrochloric acid .
The cell and drying vesseIs were all of glass with grourld glass joints .
Two short tubes charged with hydrogen and oxygen were used , as before , to carry the silver bridges .
They were joined to the long tube immediately before the explosion .
The mean rate of explosion of dry hydrogen and chlorine in this tube was found to be 1723 metres per second\mdash ; as the result of three pairs of experiments:\mdash ; NDCCCXCIII .
\mdash ; A. PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
147 On diluting the electrolytic gas hydrogen the rate of explosion found to increase , and to approximate to the calculated oCity of the sound-wave .
The mixtures were made by bringing the rolytic gas from the cell , and the hydrogen from a holder , into a sulphuric acid wash-bottle through two tubes of the same size dipping side by side beneath the liquid .
By regnlating flow of ydrogen the bubbles of each gas could be kept passiog at an equal rate .
In this way a xture containing three cf to one volume of chlorine was passed into the explosion tube .
The correctness of the mixture was ecked by collecting and analysing a sample of the gas escaping from the end of the tube .
By passing the hydrogen at half rate a mixture containing approximately two volumes of hydrogen to one of chlorine was obtained .
While addition of diluent hydrogen to the electrolytic gas makes little difference in the ated rates , the observerl velocities of explosion increased appreciably .
On the assumption that the heat of combination of hydrogen and is 22,630 calories , the calculated and observed velocities are as follow:\mdash ; TABLE XXXVIII .
-Rate of Explosion of Hydrogen and Chlorine with addition of Hydrogen .
These experiments show that in the explosion of hydrogen and ch]orine as in the explosion of hydrogen and oxygen , in equivalent proportions , the rate fatls below the calcuIated velocity of the sound-wave , but on diluting gases the lculated and observed velocities come together .
This divergence at the highest temperature may be explained either by the dissociation of the hydrochloric acid or by .
rise in its pecific heat As I have shown , we have direct evidence of.some dissociation .
On the other hand , the physical properties of hydrochloric acid more nearly resemble those of carbonic oxide and the elementary gases than those of steam or carbonic acid ; we should expect , therefore , that the specific heat of hydrochIoric acid shouId remain as constant that of carbonic oxide at high temperatures . .
MALLARD and LE conolude from their experiments that some dissociation occurs when equal volumes of hydrogen and chlorine are exploded .
When excess of hydrogen is added tbcy find no dissociation .
PROFESSOR H. B. ON RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
CHATELIER found " " effective pressures\ldquo ; in agreement with those obtained by BUNSEN and by BERTHELOT , i.e. , about 10 atmospheres .
It is evident from these experiments that sudden pressures are produced in the explosion-wave greater than those shown by the experiments of BUNSEN and of BERTHELOT .
If the explosion is propagated by compression after the manner of a sound-wave enormously high temperatures must be produced in the wave , as I have already shown , and high pressures must also exist .
This aspect of the matter has been well stated by MALLARD and LE CHATELIER:\mdash ; " " A gas , increasing in volume by combustion , exerts a pressure on the unburnt gas next to it : it is possible to conceive that this pressnre may be raised sufficiently high to bring the neighbouring layer to the temperature of ignition .
The possibility of the propagation of the mmation by the propagation of the pressure can thus be mderstood .
" " Take for example the explosive of hydrogen and oxygen .
According to our experiments it inflames at , and the pressure exerted after the combustion in a closed vessel is 10 atmospheres .
An infinitely thin layer inflamed by heating reaches this pressure at the greatest , and cannot exert any higher pressure on the uninflamed layer next to it .
" " A compression of 10 atmospheres evolves a quantity of heat which can readily be c.alculated by thermo-dynamics : it is not sufficient to produce an elevation of temperature equal to that inflammation .
To obtain this temperature a compression of 30 atmospheres would be needed .
It would appear , then , that the explosion-wave could not be initiated under these " " Suppose , however , that the inflammation of the first layer is not brought about by heating , but by a suitable pressure , i.e. , one of not less than thirty atmospheres , which may readily be produced by the detonation of a little fulminate .
After the combustion the pressure of the inflamed layer will be multiplied by ten , or at least be far higher than the initial pressure of thirty atmospheres , and will be able , consequently , to exert on the next layer a pressure sufficient to inflame it .
This will continue then to propagate itself from layer to layer by the same mechanism ( ' Combustion des Melanges Gazeux , ' p. 88 .
) The sudden state of pressure produced .
in each layer of burning ceases as suddenly as it is caused , by the expansion of the gas which esses the unburn ayer in front ; the high temperature of the burnt layer , therefore , rapidly falls by the transformation of heat into work .
MA LLARD and LE CHATELIER have shown by photographs of the flame that , in the explosion-wave , the luminosity of each layer does not last longer than one thousandth part of a second ; while in the of combustion each layer remains luminous more than ten times as long .
I can fully confirm these statements .
By photographing the explosion-wave of hydrog.en and oxygen on a fixed and on a rapidly moving plate at the same time , I have found that then refilled acrewed oeaden phepassage osmixture.tube iurrounded bgauze athick gyhnderOn applying aflame tspark nhePROFESSOR HDIXON OXPLOSION I extremity , a loud report is heard , and the test-tube reduced to powder .
The explosion-wave in a glass tube produces a brilliarlt flash of orange light .
Professor A. SCHUSTER has drawn my to a memoir , by RIH : MANN , 011 the propagation of intense disturbances in gases , and has suggested a mode of calculating the momentary pressures produced in the -wave from its known of propagation , and the density of the unburnt gas .
On the assumption that RIEMANN'S theory holds for an explosion , I have calculated , from the observed rates of the wave and the densities of the unburnt gas , the pressures existing in the wave in the explosion of different gaseous xtures .
In parallel columns I have given the " " effective\ldquo ; pressures as registered in the apparatus used by BERTHELOT for the same mixtures .
The ures calculated for the wave are rather more than four times larger than these effective pressures .
In the third column I have given the csJculated pressures divided by The pressure in the wave is given by the equation where is the pressure in atmuspheres , the rate in metres per second , and is the weight in grammes of 1 .
of the unburnt * Professor DEWAR bas noticed the violeLce with which carbonic oxide and oxygen explode under certain conditions .
He : ' Sometimes the explosions were so violent as to break the plate closing the end of the tube , ough this had resisted the explosions of the hydrogen mixturs ; while at the other times the wave of explosion passed slowly along the tube 'Roy .
Soc. Proc Apri13 , 1884 .
ProbabIy owing to differences in the nature of the electric sparks , the ' explosion-wa \ldquo ; was sometimes set up in his tube and sometimes not .
See note at end of cap. PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
153 is only possible for a particular relation between the pressure and density of the gas , which is different from the one actually holding .
In the case of the explosion-waves it seems possible , however , that the temperatnre , pressure , and density of the gas should so adjust themsslves as to make equations applicable .
In fact , they must do so if the front of the wave keeps its type , which it probably does when the velocity has become constant .
If and are the densities of the gas in the undisturbed state , and at some point in the wave respectively , then , referring the motion to a system of coordinates moving forward with the velocity V of the wave , we have the condition of steady motion where is the velocity at the point at which the density is ; also As is a constant quantily we may integl.ate the latter and obtain , which gives for the velocity of the wave propagation This equation gives a relation between the density at any point of the wave and the pressure at that point , the pressure and density in the initial state being and .
The equation can be simplified if is large compared to for so that may write Putting , for the sake of argument , , the second square root in the above expression becomes , so that as a first approximation it may be put equal to one .
Writin for the excess of pressure over the atmospheric pressure , the equation now takes the simple form In this expression the value of has to be written in dynes per square centimetre , and the velocity would be given in oentimetres .
For more convenient numerical calcuIation we may adopt provisionally the suggestion of GUILLAUIIE that a pressure of 75 .
of mercury under the llormal conditions should be an nosphere .
The atmosphere then would be exactly one megadyne per square centimetre , and if is given in atmospheres , the equation becomes or if is expressed in metres per seconr ] .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THh RATE OF EXPLOSION IN .
155 to a forward en mass of the burning molectlle.s , or to the advance of a comparatively few molecuIes with extreme rapidity .
In the latter case the explosion-wave might be with a velocity far higher than the average elocity of the eCuleS of burning gas .
I think the available evidence predudes the idea that the ignition can be propagated by a few molecules moving with velocities far above the mean .
For , if this were the case , the presence of a diluent gas ought not to hinder the advance of the wave in the manner it is found to do .
The heat evolved on the formation of a compound molecule is the same whether inert molecules are in the neighbourhood or not , and for the moment the temperature of compound is the same .
If , therefore , the ignition could be propagated by the advance of individual molecules , we might expect the explusion to be propagated at the same , or nearly the same , rate in the presence of an inert gas .
My experiments have , however , conclusively shown that an inert gas retards the wave by an amount which depends upon its volume and density .
It would seem to follow that each layer is heated as a whole and that the advance of the wave depends upon the average motion of the molecules .
Two other ppear to support this view .
It is well known that small electric sparks may be sent through explosive mixtures of gases , e.g. , through electrolytic gas , without causing explosion .
Yet the temperature in the spark must be extrelnely high , and combination occurs in the path of the spark .
It would seem that the number of molecules heated by each spark was not sufficient to communicate ignition to the , rest .
Again , when a sound-wave is started in a mixture of gases , its rate of propagation depends upon the mean density of the gaseous mixture ; there is no ] ective propagacion of the wave by one of the constituents of the mixture .
* This fact , of which I could find no experimental demonstration for gases of widely different density , has been verified , at my request , by Mr. F. J. SMITH in the MILLARD Laboratory , at Trinity ] , Oxford .
Accordiug to Mr. SMITH'S careful experiments , sound is propagated at the same rate in ammonia gas ( density ) as in a mixture of equal volumes of hydrogen and oxygen of the same mean density as ammonia .
On the other hand , it may be that the wave does not advance perfectly ularly , but breaks , like a water-wave is broken by the quicker movement of the crest .
In breaking , jets of heated gas may be projected in front of the wave into the unburnt gas beyond\mdash ; such jets becoming the centres of fresh disturbances which coaIesce to * FARADAY thought that gases of very different density would not mix perfecbly .
" " As the atmosphere is now constituted , there exists a permanency of sonorous pitch ; any tone being once generated remains the same tone until it dies away . . . .
If , however , the atmosphere had been composed of gases , each having widely different specific gravities , there would have been a difference .
No permanency of tone could then have been depended upon\mdash ; the pitch of every original note would have been continually varying as its transmission might be propagated by the vibrations of ever-varying mixtures of the two gases of dissimilar speciflc , gravikies FABADAY'S } ures , SCOFFERN , 1853 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
157 moving piston may fall below the true value , and the more rapid the explosion the greater this error may be .
That the pressures registered , and , therefore , the specific heats deduced from them , vary with the uments employed appears from a comparison of the numbers obtained by M. BERTHELOT , and those of MM .
MALLARD and LE CHATELIH : R in the explosion of cyanogen .
According to experiments , the specific heat of nitrogen and carbonic oxide is at 250 ; according to MM .
MALLARD and LE CHATELIER , it is 72 at this tempel.ature .
Again the latter have dstermined the specffic heat of the simple gases by adding measured volumes of hydrogen , oxygen , and nitrogen to electrolytic gas , and measuring the pressures produced on explosion .
From the seven experiments made at temperatures neal 2000(calculated ) , they obtain , as a mean , the number for the specific heat of the elementary gases at this temperature ; in a former paper they gave the value as the speciiic heat at this temperature .
Neither of these values agrees with the deduced from their cyanogen experiment at .
The great difficulties attending determinations of this nature , in spite of the skill and patience with which the French chemists have attacked the problem , still leave it an open question whether the specffic heats of the simple gases increase with the temperature .
S3 .
The observations I have made on the effect of changes of initial pressure and temperature on the rate of explosion in gases are not such as might have been expected from the theory of ordinary sound-waves .
There appears to be for each mixture a pressure , above which variations of pressure do not affect bhe rate of explosion .
Below this poinb the rates fall with diminution of the case of electrolytic gas an increase of pressure from one to two atmospheres increases the rate of explosiou from 2821 to 2872 metres per second .
When the electrolytic is largely diluted , an increase in pressure from one to two atmospheres has less effect .
The following rates were found at one and two atmospheres for electrolytic gas diluted with oxygen , nitrogen , and hydrogen respectively : \mdash ; TABLE XLI .
( 1 .
) * des MeJanges Gazeux , : PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
159 olectrolytic gas at 75 mm. , but not at mm , induction spark is passed through the mixture .
LOTHAR MEYER and SEUBERT* found that a spark from a ItUHMKORFF'S coil caused partial ignition of electrolytic gas at 70 mm. , complete combustion at 72 , the exact pressure under which the gases unite varying with the strength of the spark .
It is conceivable , on the " " breaking-wave\ldquo ; hypothesis , that the projected jets of heated gas do not under reduced pressure initiate their own explosion-waves so rapidly as under higher pressure .
Similarly with regard to changes of initial temperature , I do not know why a rise of temperature should diminish the rate of explosion .
The limited ran in which it is possible to condnct the experiments , and the small rences found within this range , do not permit of a curve being drawn which might indicate the general effect of changes of temperature upon the rale .
In the case of electrolytic gas the effect of heating was found to lower the rate both at low and at high pressures .
Expcriments made at atmospheric pressure ethylene , burning to carbonic oxide and steam , at and , showed a lowering of the rate rather greater than that of electrolytic ; while similar experiments made with cyanogen , burning to carbonic oxide and nitrogen , showed a smaller difference\mdash ; hardly , perhnps , to be distinguished from the experimsntal error .
S3 .
he of Exptosion of Hydrocarbons with insufficient Oxygen .
The explosion of hydrocarbons with insufficient oxygen bas been studied by J. DAVY , KERSTEN , and E. V0N MEYER .
In the New System of Chemical Philosophy , ' Part II .
, p. 442 ( 1810 ) , DALTON thus describes the explosion of equal volumes of ethylene and oxygen :\mdash ; " " If 100 measures of oxygen be put to 100 of olefiant gas , and electrified , an explosion ensues , not very violent ; but stead of a diminution , as usual , there is a great increase of gas ; instead of 200 measures , there will be found about 360 ; traces of carbonic acid are commonly observed , which disappear on passing two or three times through lime water ; there will then remain perhaps 350 measures of a permanent gas , which is all combustible , yielding by an additional dose of oxygen , carbonic acid , and water , the same as if entirely burnt the first instance .
What , therefore , is this new gas in the intermediate state ?
The answer is clear .
It is carbonic oxide and hydrogen mixed together , an equal number of atoms of each DALTON found that marsh gas could not be exploded with less than its own volume of oxygen , in which case half the hydrogen formed water and the other half was liberated:\mdash ; " " If 100 ueasures of rburetted hydrogen be mixed with 100 measure , of oxygen ( the least that can be used with effect ) , and a spark passed through the mixture , * ' Chem. Soc. Journ 1884 , vol. 1 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
161 egular period of vibration , and that everything depends on the quickness with which the explosion-wave is developed .
Again , BERTHELOT compares the rate of explosion of hydrocarbons with that of hydrogen in the same apparatus:\mdash ; Gas .
Time .
Acetylene Ethylene Ethane .
83 bIarsh Gas . . . . . .
Hydrogen . . . . .
" " The rate of combustion of gases rich in hydrogen is very close to that of hydrogetl .
This seems to indicate that the hydrogen burns before the carbon , eveu in total mbustions I do not think this conclusion is justified by the ures ; nor do I see how the second argument can be reconciled with the first .
I have made experiments on the rate of the explosion-wave in ethylene and in acetylene mixed with their own volume of oxygen .
In both cases the main reaction is the formation of carbonic oxide and hydrogen ; but the rates found are not so near ated velocities as I have found in other cases .
The explosions being made in a gas-tight tube surrounded with water , the increase in pressure gave the expansion due to the chemical changes .
With ethylene and oxygen the volume was almost doubled ; with acetylene and oxygen the volume was increased by one-half .
In the foUowing table I have given the observed rates of explosion for ethylene and acetylene , with an equal of oxygen , compared with the rate calculated by formula and with the sou1ld-wave 2:\mdash ; TABLE XLII.\mdash ; Rates of Explosion of Ethylene and Acetylene with an volume of Oxygen .
1 .
cals .
2 .
cals .
The rat of explosion of ethylene and an equal volume of oxygen was found to be WDCCCXCIII .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
163 velocities greater than those calculated for sound in the undecomposed gas .
But this is exactly the reverse of what is observed .
The formula , which gives the correct velocity for explosions of cyanogen , gives numbers which are rather too high for acetylene ( also a strongly endothermic compound ) , and too low for ethylene and for marsh gas ( an exothermic compound ) .
It would appear as if ethylene and 1narsh gas were unstable bodies , and acetylene and cyanogen were stable bodies , in the particular condition of the explosion-wave .
Let me recall the words used by Professor OSTWALD in his address last year at Halle , to the sections of Physics and Chemistry , when speaking on a cognate subject\mdash ; the spectra of gases at high temperatures:\mdash ; ' It is held as an undoubted dogma that at the highest temperatures , as , for example , in the electric arc , all compounds must be dissociated into their elements .
This view is certaInly nob justified .
What we do know about the stability of compounds is , on the contrary , that all compounds which are formed with absorption of heat become more with rising temperature , and the reverse .
Because the majority of the compounds known to us are formed from the elements with evolution of heat , and correspondingly become more unstable with rising temperature , the conclusion has been drawn that this is in general the case .
But if we reflect that cyanogen and acetylene , two compounds formed with great absorption of energy , are readily formed in quantity , at the highest temperatures , in the ] furnace and in the arc light , we become conscious that spectra occurring at high temperatures may belong to compounds which have a fleeting existence confined to those emperatures only * We know , that cyanogen and acetylene are formed from their elements at the highest temperature ; but BERTHELOT has shown that these gases are decomposed by the shock of a fulminate detonator .
Is it possible that there is an essential difference bet , ween the two acts\mdash ; that molecules of acetylene , charged by highly heated molecules , do not break up , but that they are decomposed when they are dashed cold molecuIes , or the cold walls of the containing vessel I have found that the decomposition of acetylene by a fulminate is coniined to the neighbourhood of the detonator .
When a charge of fulminate is fired in a steel bomb filled with the decomposition of the acetylene is not propagated along a tube attached to the bomb and filled with the gas .
The flame of the detonator is " " carried on\ldquo ; for some little distance , but , no is set up the .
Similar results were found with carbon bisulphide vapour , though in this case he decomposition is propagated to a greater distance from the detonator .
These experiments show that " " the decomposition by shock of acetylene and carbon bisulphide is not propagated like the explosion-wave at a constant velocity far as the gas extends , but the decomposition set up by the fulminate dies out at a distance from the detonator , depdig on the See ' Nature , ' Apri121 , 1892 .
' La Force des Matieres Explosives , ' vol. 1 , p. 109 .
See also THORPE , ' Journ. Chem. Soc , ' 1889 , p. 220 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION GASES .
S4 .
The difficulties I have touched ou show huw far we are from a complete theory of explosions .
The tentative formula which I have must be taken for nothing molethaIl a working hypothesis It has been found so far parallel to the truth that it may be useful to suggest further experiments on the nature of explosions .
As BERTHELOT'S formuIa helped me to interpret the reactions of gaseous carbon , and suggested experiments which led me to modify the hypothesis I was using ; so I will venture to hope that this modffied hypothesis may in turn lead other workers to a truer knowledge of explosions .
In concluding , I wish to thank three former pupils of mine , who have rendered me devoted service in the conduct of these experiments\mdash ; Mr. J. E. MARSH , of Balliol College , Oxford , and Messrs. H. W. SMITH and J. A. HARKER , of Owens College , Manchester .
GENEBAL CONCLUSIONS .
1 .
BERTHELOT'S measurements of the rates of explosion of a number of gaseous mixtures have been conlirmed .
The rate of the explosion-wave for each mixture is constant .
It is independent of the diameter of the tube above a certain limit .
2 .
The rate is not absolutely independent of the initial temperature and pressure of the gases .
rise of temperatuxe the rate falls ; with rise of pressure the increases ; but above a certain pressure variations in pressure appear to have no effect .
3 .
In the explosion of carbonic oxide and oxygen in a long tube the presence of steam has a marked influence on the rate .
From measurements of the rate of explosion with different quantities of steam the conclusion is drawn that at the high temperature of the explosiou-wave , as well as in ordinary combustion , the oxidation of the carbonic oxide is effected by the interaction of the steam .
4 .
Inert gases are found to retard the explosion-wave according to their volume and density .
Within wide limits an excess of one of the combustible gases has the same retarding effect as an inert gas ( of the same volume and density ) which can take no part in the reaction .
5 .
Measurements of the rate of explosion can be ] oyed for determining the course of some chemical changes .
In the explosion of a volatiJe carbon-compound with oxygen , the gaseous carbon burns first to carbonic oxide , and afterwards , if oxygen is present in excess , the carbonic oxide first formed burns to carbonic acid .
6 .
The theory proposed by \mdash ; that in the explosion-wave the flame traveIs at the mean velocity of the products of combustion\mdash ; although in agreement with the rates observed in a certain number of cases , does not account .
the velocities found iu other gaseous mixtures .
pROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
167 vrith strong alcoholic potash and finally with oil of vitriol .
The generating flask ( of 2 htres capacity ) was kept at C. An analysis of the gas by explosion with air in apparatus showed per cent. of marsh gas .
Ethylene.\mdash ; The ethylene was prepared by the method given by ERLENMEYER and BuNTb 25 grms. of absolute alcohol are mixed with 150 grms. of pure sulphuric acid , and the mixture is heated in a large flask , on a sand bath , to C. mixture of one part alcohol and two parts sulphuric acid is then slowly added by a tap.funnel .
Great difficulty was ienced in getting rid of all acid gases from the ethylene .
The gas was passed ( 1 ) through bwo wash-bottles containing oil of vitriol , ( 2 ) through a tower packed with pieces of solid potash , ( 3 ) through two wash-bottles containing strong potash solution , ( 4 ) through a second tower packed with pieces of solid potash .
The large quantity of air contained in the flask and washing apparatus rendered it difficult to obtain the gas quite free from air .
The gas was analysed nnd found to be free from sulphurous acid , but it contained small quantities of nitrogen .
Allowance was made for the presence of this diluent gas in making up the mixtures of ethylene with oxygen , \amp ; c. The percentage impurity in the ethylene could be reduced to 1 per cent. ; no other gas used in these experiments presented the same difficulty in pure .
Acetylene .
-The acetyiene was prepared by the action of strong alcoholic potash or ethylene dibromide .
The potash was dissolved in amyl alcohol .
The gas evolved from the boiling solution was passed through a second flask containing boiling potash solution , and then into an ammoniacal solution of cuprous chloride .
The precipitated ouprous acetylide was washed with dilute ammonia solution and kept till required under this solution .
On warming the red precipitate with strong ) ydrochloric acid to ) C. a regular stream of acetylene was given off .
It was washed with water , dried with caustic potash , and collected over mercury .
Analysis showed that the gas was pure .
Ammonia.\mdash ; The ammonia was distilled from a strong aqueous solution , dried by caustic potash , and was collected over mercury .
Carbonic Oxide.\mdash ; This gas prepared by gently warming formic acid with pure sulphuric acid diluted with an equal volume of waber .
It was washed with potash solution .
crystallised mercuric cyanide was powdered and heated to drive off moisture .
The dry powder was introduced into a steel retort with a long neck .
After a considerable quantity of cyanogen been allowed to escape , the gas was collected directly in a mercury holder .
The rebort was raised to dull redness in a fireclay furnace , heated by gas .
Oxygen.\mdash ; The oxygen was prepared by heating powdered chlorate of potash in a hard glass flask .
It was washed by a solution of caustic potash .
Nitrous Oxide.\mdash ; This gas was prepared by heating pure ammonium nitrate in a PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THHi RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
169 for the exit tube .
The electrolytic gas entered through one tube , while hydrogen was driven from a holder through the other .
At the further end of the explosion tube the gases passed through ( 1 ) a wash bottle ; ( 2 ) a long graduated tube fitted with taps at either end ; ( 3 ) a thin glass bulb ; ( 4 ) a tower filled with lime and powdered charcoal .
The thin bulb could be readily detached and submitted to a " " magnesium flash The graduated tube served to analyse the gas .
It was connected with a movable reservoir from which a solution of caustic potash could be introduced into the tube .
The volume of chlorine present could thus be readily estimated , the residual hydrogen being measured under atmospheric pressure by bringing the level of the liquid in the tube and reservoir to the same height .
The current for the electrolysis was iven by 7 secondary cells ( ELWELL and PARKER ) , E.M.F. 13-15 volts ; current 4-6 amperes .
The preliminary saturation occupied many honrs .
It was found best to leave a small current ( about ampere ) passing through the cell for two days before making an experiment .
When the liquids were all saturated it took about four hours to fill the explosion tube .
An analysis of the issuing gas at the end of that time gave\mdash ; Chlorine . . . . .
Hydrogen . . . . .
In another experiment an analysis at the end of hours gave\mdash ; Chlorine . . . . .
Hydrogen . . . . .
Part II .
ngement of the Firing Tubes .
The leaden pipes used for the explosion tubes were 5 , , 9 , and 13 mm. in internal diameter .
The pipe was wound on a galvanised iron drum about 2 feet in diameter , provided with a flange at the bottom .
In order to wind the pipe it was laid straight along a corridor .
The drum was attached to a turntable fixed to a low trolley , which was pushed forward as the pipe was wound on the revolving drum .
The drum with the pipe wound on it was placed in an iron water-bath , which could be heated by a large ring burner .
The ends of the pipe passed out through two near the top of the bath .
To each end of the explosion tube was soldered a short steel tube , ending in a cap with a polished steel face 30 mm. in diameter , perforated in the centre by a hole 10 mm. in diameter .
The steel face of each cap is pressed by a clamp against a similar steel face , as in REGNAULT'S gas apparatus , from which these joints are taken .
One end of the explosion tube is thus joined to the PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
171 The apparatus being arranged as shown in fig. 7 , the mixture from the holder was driven through the washing vessel , partly filled with boiled oil of vitriol , and through the two drying towers , packed with pieces of asbestos saturated with boiled oil of vitriol .
The gas then passed through a short length of black rubber tubing to the end piece carrying the second bridge .
From the end piece tha mixture passed into the explosion tube coiled on a drum standing in the large iron water-bath D. A second clamp united the explosion tube to the firing piece , carrying the first bridge at one end , and the firing wires , sealed through Fig. 5 .
Shows the construction of a second pair of bridge pieces and clamps used during the last two years .
a stout glass tube , and a tap at the other .
The taps were made of hardened steel .
After leaving the firing piece the gas passed by a glass tube to a three-way tap by which it could be sent either to the testing tube I or by the pipe to the window .
In many of the experiments a sulphuric acid wash-bottle was joined to the tube at , and connected with a holder containing electrolytic gas .
Before starting the experiment the air was displaced from the vessel by a stream of electrolytic gas .
When the explosion tube and firing piece were full of the explosive mixture , the lap was shut , and a few bubbles of electrolytic gas were driven into the firing piece so as to fill about one-third of its length .
This insured the explosion-wave being set up in the firing piece before the flame reached the first bridge , and was a convenient mode of firing mixtures\mdash ; such as those containing cyanogen\mdash ; which do not readily ignite .
For experiments under increased pressure the arrangement shown in fig. 6 was PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES into the base of the cylinder .
The tube was then filled with electrolytic gas through the tap , the air escaping at E. On firing the gas in by the firing wires the explosion travelled to , and there set off the detonator in the middle of the cyanogen mixture .
The thus started was propagated through the tube into the explosion tube which it versed to the end .
Part III.\mdash ; Chronographic The arrangement of the chronograph and electrical connections are shown in fig. 9 .
The chronograph , made by Messrs. ELLIOT , consisted of a heavy pendulum carrying a smoked glass plate .
The electro-magnetic styli used were made by PFEIL , of Berlin , and by Mr. F. J. SMITH , of Trinity College , Oxford , to whom I am greatly indebted for severaJ of these instruments .
In most of the experiments recorded in this paper , one of PFEIL'S instruments and one of Mr. SMITH'S were employed .
These two were chosen out of several , for the great constancy of their latent period , and for the sharpness of their action .
The styli were attached to an upright bar on a heavy iron stand , with three pointed feet .
The bar could be tilted back on two feet and exactly replaced .
At the lowest point of its swing the pendulum acted on two breaks , X and X ' , which by a rack and pinion could be brought exactly in a line .
By bringing the pendulum slowly against the uprights the position of the two breaks could be adjusted so that they were broken at the same instant .
In the preliminary experiment the wires were arranged as shown in the figure , except that the wires to the firing battery were detached at , and the wires from bb , to the two bridges were not connected .
The was put in circuit through a resistance RR , and the break ; the stylus was put in circuit a resistance and the break X ' .
On letting the pendulum fall the two styli were released , and registered their marks on the moving plate .
The resistances RR and were now removed , the firing battery and coil put into circuit at , the from and attached to the two bridges , and the wires from the coil attached to the firing piece .
The , ndulum , being let fall , broke the primary circuit of the coil on striking , causing a spark to pass between the platinum wires in the piece .
The flame lravelling down the tube broke both bridges in turn , and the styli connected with them registered their marks on the moving plate .
The 1t ' Phil. bIag 1890 , p. 377 .
PROFESSOR H. B. DIXON ON THE RATE OF EXPLOSION IN GASES .
175 the copper plate attached to the ebonite .
The whole piece , could be moved to the right or left by a pinion working in the rack E. Side view of one of the breaks .
The tuning fork was by KOENIG .
It gave 100 complete vibrations per second at C. Its temperature correction was determined by Mr. R. H. M. BOSANQUET in the Laboratory of St. John 's College , Oxford .
By measuring the length of the wave traced by the tuning fork on the plate at different heights , a table of wave-lengths was constructed , giving the valus of second at different heights on the plate , and for different lengths of swing .
After measuring the distance between two marks of a stylus and the height of the tracing on the plate , a reference to the table gave the value of the distance in time .
But , to make sure that the pendulum was moving at the same rate as when the table was constructed , a tuning fork trace was taken after each being in the same state except that the tuning fork was substituted for the eIectro-magnetic styli .
From the length of the observed trace , compared with that given in the table , a correction could readily be applied to the table readings .
A small correction was also made , when necessary , for the effect of temperature on the tuning fork .
The distance between the marks of the styli was measured by cutting the rising trace 2 mm. above the datum line with a pointed style , and drawing a perpendicular line through the points of intersection , as shown in fig. 11 .
At the upper stylus began to rise in the preliminary experiment , and the lower stylus at .
In the explosion the lower stylus was released by the breaking of the first bridge , and began to rise at ; the upper stylus was released by the breaking of the second bridge , and began to rise at .
The distances between the lines AA ' and between the lines being measured , as well as the position of and on the plate , the value of

