1892 .
] Organisation of Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
469 It will be seen that all the lines ol Nova Aurigae have previously been recorded in other Novae , or in the bright-line stars .
The complete spectrum , including the photographic region , was shown in the diagram exhibited on the screen .
This , and the light curve of the spectrum from F to C , was drawn by Mr. Fowler and Mr. W. J. Bockyer , on February 22 , and confirmed by Mr. Fowler on February 23 .
The 3-foot reflector and McClean spectroscope were employed in each case .
The changes which are taking place in the Nova are exactly what would be expected according to my hypothesis , that new stars are produced by the collision of meteor-swarms .
The rapid fading of the star demonstrates that small masses and not large ones are engaged , and this is further confirmed by the observed diminution in the brightness of the continuous spectrum relatively to the bright lines .
If two condensed bodies were in collision , it is evident that the lines would fade first .
III .
" On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
Part XIX .
" By W. C. Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received January 18 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) ; The author recalls attention to the discovery by the late Rev. W. Vernon Harcourt of a fragment of a Bepidodendroid branch , in which the internal structures were well preserved .
The specimen was described and figured , first by Witham , who gave to it the well-known name of Lepidodendron Harcourtii .
It was next described by Bindley and Hutton , in their 'Fossil Flora , ' and still later , and more scientifically , by Brongniart , in his 'Vegetaux Fossiles .
' In its interior Brongniart found a single vascular cylinder encasing a medulla .
At a later period he obtained fragments of two other plants , in each 'f which he found the above cylinder , but invested by a second one which was obviously an exogenous product of a cambium zone .
From these three specimens he unfortunately concluded that the first belonged to a Cryptogamic By copod , whilst the second and third were Rymnospermous Phanerogams .
These latter examples he further identified with his genus Sigillaria .
This classification was universally accepted by the palseobotanical world until 1871 , when , in his Memoir , Part II , the author announced bis conviction that .
Bepidodendra and Sigillariae were alike Cryptogams , and that the exogenous zone supposed to be characteristic 'f the Phanerogams was not confined , in ancient times , to that great division of the vegetable kingdom .
470 Prof. W. C. Williamson .
On the Organisation [ Feb. 25 , Apart from this general question , now conclusively settled , further knowledge of L. Earcourtii has long been sought for in vain .
Har-court 's original fragment was unfortunately an imperfect one .
Its outer cortex and foliage were wholly wanting , as well as specimens illustrating its various stages of growth .
Recently , however , a very fine series of such specimens has come into the hands of the author , and a large amount of new information has been obtained from them .
Some of the new examples are very young branches , perfectly in .
vested by their bark and leaves .
The detailed structures of all the organs of these specimens are now described in minute detail .
A more exact technical nomenclature than has hitherto been employed is applied to their various structures .
Besides these young forms , other specimens resembling that studied by Brongniart , both as regards condition and apparent age , have been obtained , and also one magnificent older and arborescent example , from Airdrie , in Scotland , which , including all its leaves , has been between four and five inches in diameter .
But even this latter specimen presents no appearance of the secondary or exogenous vascular zone so common amongst other much younger Lepidodendra .
Hence the author concludes that L. Harcourtii has in this respect been like L. Wunschianum , the well-known Arran species , in which a magnificent exogenous zone exists , but which was only developed when the plants attained to an advanced arborescent condition .
Some of these youngest specimens show evidence that they had been fructigerous twigs .
But , before describing these , the author examines anew the entire subject of the branches to which the names of Halonia and Ulodendron have been applied .
Both of these have now been proved to have been fruit-bearing branches , but their true relations to each other and to their parent plants are still in a state of serious confusion .
The existing definitions of these two types are shown to be altogether unsatisfactory ; some specimens which according to one generally accepted definition are Halonise according to another are Ulodendra .
In fact the two sets of definitions overlap in such a manner as renders them no longer applicable .
Two classes of facts have to be considered here ; first , the positions and arrangements of the reproductive fructifications on the supporting branches , and , secondly , the nature of the scars left on the exterior of the bark after these deciduous fructifications fell to the ground .
The positions of these scars in Ulodendron are usually defined as biserial , being arranged in two longitudinal rows , * one on each side of the sustaining branch , whilst in Halonia these * In his last publication , M. Renault recognises that there are sometimes four such rows .
1892 .
] of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures .
rows are defined as being more numerous , and the scars quincuncially arranged .
In TJlodendron each such scar is farther surrounded by a large circular , or oval , and very characteristic disk .
The author shows that the essential and homologous structure in all these fruitbearing branches is a small circular area , forming the summit of a larger or smaller conical arrested branch which was covered with leaves .
This small apical area represents the part at which the deciduous fructification was organically united with its sustaining branch .
Each such branch was supplied with a distinctive form of vascular bundle , which differed alike from those larger ones seen in ordinary vegetative branches , and from the smaller ones passing outwards to the leaves ; this bundle is always abruptly broken of at the extreme apex of the fructigerous tubercle in a way demonstrating that it was formerly prolonged into some deciduous appendage which is rarely preserved in situ .
But TJlodendron has , in addition , surrounding each of these fruit-bearing points , a flattened surface , the size of which was mainly dependent upon the age to which the tree had attained when it perished .
This orbicular surface was primarily covered with ordinary leaves , normally arranged , but the full development of which was arrested by the pressure of some external agent .
The author concludes that the central fructigerous point was homologous in all these cases , and that the variations seen in them arose largely from the degree of prominence attained by the arrested lateral branch .
When that prominence was sufficient , the cone-like fruit was pedunculate , and no disturbance of the surrounding leaves was produced ; but when that elevation was small , or almost non-\lt ; existent , the cone was practically sessile , and , as it grew , its expanding base crushed down the leaves which it covered and thus produced the j large flattened disk characteristic of TJlodendron .
These two names , Halonia and TJlodendron , have no longer any generic value , but the , terms Halonial and Ulodendroid may be conveniently retained as :\#187 ; adjectives applicable to appropriate specific forms .
The author applies these conclusions to his younger specimens of J- Harcourtii , and shows that many of them were fructigerous in the j Halonial form .
The organisation of the leaves of some of these Lepidodendroid | plants has been re-examined .
As is well known , on the leaf-scars alike of Lepidodendron and of Sigillaria , each scar left on the bark ' after the fall of the deciduous leaf had three minute points impressed upon its surface .
Brongniart regarded each of the three as representing the entrance of a leaf-trace into the leaf , and very recently some other observers have arrived at the same conclusion .
The author , long ago , showed that the central spot alone represented the vascular leaf-trace , the two lateral ones being merely cellular structures , but the details of which were very imperfectly known .
These new speoiMr .
C. B. Clarke .
[ Feb. 25 , mens demonstrate the exact features of these structures .
Professor Bertrand , of Lille , and M. Hovelacque , of Paris , have simultaneously investigated the two lateral points on the leaf-scar , to which the former author has given the name of which name Professor Williamson adopts .
But these two palaeontologists have further called attention to a fourth structure in these leaves , hitherto , in some degree , overlooked ; and which they designated the The author finds this organ well developed both in L. and in LepidopMoios , but rejects the name ligule , on the ground that he cannot identify the fossil structure with the organ bearing the same name in living Isoetes and Selaginellae .
He , therefore , adopts for the former the term Adenoid organ , believing it to have had glandular functions .
Details are also given of the organisation of several forms of Lepidostrobi , some \#169 ; f which are identified with their parent plants .
The general conclusion arrived at by the author in reference to the L. Harcourtii , which has been so often made the subject of debate during the last twenty years , is that it occupies no exceptional position amongst the other Lepidodendra , but that whilst palaeontologists in various parts of the world quote the species as one with the organisation of which they were familiar , they were all alike mistaken in their determinations .
Until now no specimen of the same plant has been in the possession of any observer less imperfect than that described by Brongniart ; hence , when in the past authors have , as was my own case , referred various examples of cortex , leaves , and fruits to Lepidodendron Harcourtii , we have no evidence whatever that such references are true ones .
If such references are still declared to be authoritative , I must ask where the specimens are to be seen that carry our knowledge beyond what we derived from Harcourt 's imperfect branch .
IV .
" On Biologic Regions and Tabulation Areas .
" By C. B. Clarke , F.R.S. Received February 8 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) Biologic regions have been used for two purposes , viz. : ( 1 ) to exhibit the most natural primary divisions of the globe , so far as the distribution of existing Mammalia ( or of plants or living things ) is concerned ; ( 2 ) as areas of reference on which the complete distribution of a large genus or order of plants or animals may be tabulated .
It is clearly of the highest importance that one set of areas of reference should be employed by all naturalists , as foreseen by Mr. Wallace when he devised his primary zoologic regions and sub-regions .
If one naturalist tabulates one order of Butterflies on one geographic

