1886 .
] ON THE CORTICAL CENTRES OF THE MONKEY .
475 II .
" A Minute Analysis ( experimental ) of the various Movements produced by stimulating in the Monkey different Regions of the Cortical Centre for the Upper Limb , as defined by Professor Ferrier .
" By Charles E. Beevor , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , and Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , B.S. , F.R.C.S. Received June 4 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The following investigation was undertaken as prefatory to a research into motor localisation of the spinal cord .
Anatomy.\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Attention is drawn to some minute details of the topographical anatomy of the upper limb centres as defined by Professor Ferrier .
( 2 .
) Outlines of the shape and arrangement of the fissure of Rolando , the precentral and intraparietal sulci .
( 3 .
) Proof adduced in support of the authors ' opinion that the small horizontal sulcus named X by Professor Schafer really corresponds to the superior frontal sulcus of man .
Previous Researches.\#151 ; Ferrier 's results are then given in full .
Method of Experimentation is explained in detail , as also the mode of subdivision of the part of the cortex investigated into centres of about 2 mm. square .
From the results of excitation are then deduced the two following axioms:\#151 ; Axiom I.\#151 ; Viewing as a whole the motor area of the cerebral cortex for the upper limb , as defined by Professor Ferrier , we find that the regions for the action of the larger joints are situated at the upper part of the area , i.e. , closer to the middle line , while those for the smaller and more differentiated movements lie peripherally at the lower part of the area .
Axiom II.\#151 ; As a broad result , extension of all the joints is the most characteristic movement of the upper part of Ferrier 's arm centre ; while flexion is equally characteristic of the movements obtained by stimulating the lower part .
Finally , between these two regions there is a small portion where flexion and extension alternately predominate , a condition to which we have given the name of confusion .
( Here both flexors and extensors are contracting at the same time , and consequently the joint is usually fixed in a neutral position , each group of muscles alternately drawing it in opposite directions .
) In confirmation of the facts supporting these axioms , reference is made to a table , the details of which are expanded .
Priority of Movements is found to take place in the order given in 476 Mr. E. P. Culverwell .
Maxima and Minima [ June 10 , .mother table , and follows the " march " first indicated by Dr. Hugh-lings Jackson as existing in epileptic seizures .
This march is in accordance with Axiom I , since the shoulder commences the series of movements in the uppermost part of the area , the thumb at the lowest part , and the wrist in the intermediate part .
Summary.\#151 ; 1 .
That X is the superior frontal sulcus of man .
2 .
That the movements of the joints are progressively represented in the cortex from above down .
3 .
Localisation of sequence of movements .
4 .
Localisation of quality of movements .
5 .
That there is no absolute line of demarcation between the different centres .
III .
" On the Discrimination of Maxima and Minima Solutions in the Calculus of Variations .
" By E. P. Culverwell .
Communicated by Professor B. Williamson .
Received June 5 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) In the first part of the paper it is shown that the usual investigation by which the second variation of an integral is reduced , requires that the variation given to y ( the undetermined function ) is such that its differential coefficients , taken with regard to x ( the independent variable ) are continuous up to the twice-nth order , being the highest differential coefficient of y appearing in the function to be integrated .
But it is not necessary that the variation should be continuous beyond its ( n\#151 ; l)th differential coefficient , and a method of reducing the variation to Jacobi 's form by a process which is not open to the above objection is then given ; and the method has the additional advantage that its simplicity enables it to be easily extended to other cases where there are more than two variables .
But in dealing with multiple integrals especially , any method depending on algebraic transformation is necessarily defective , inasmuch as it is invalid unless solutions , which do not become either zero or infinite within the limits of the integration , can be found for a number of simultaneous partial differential equations containing at least as many unknown quantities as equations .
It is pointed out that it is not in general possible to obtain such solutions , and that even when the particular problem is assigned , it would be impracticable to ascertain whether there were such solutions .
The method given in the second part of the paper does not depend on or require any algebraic transformation .
The second variation is

