A paper was read , entitled , " An account of experiments made with the view of ascertaining the possibility of obtaining a spark before the circuit of the Voltaic Battery is completed .
" By J. P. Gassiot , Esq. The author of this paper advcrts to the fact , of a spark invariably appearing when the circuit of the Voltaic Battery is completed ; an effect which Dr. Faraday has shown can be easily produced , even with a single series .
He then refers to the experiments of Mr. Children , Sir Humphry Davy , and Professor Daniell , recorded in the Philosophical Transactions ; in which experiments , when more powerful and extended series were used , the spark was obtained be ?
fore contact took place .
In order to ascertain , not only the fact of a spark being obtained , but also the distance through which it may be passed , the author iiad an instrument prepared , which he denominates a Micrometer Electrometer , and by which an appreciable space of one five-tliousandth of an inch could be measured with great accuracy .
He describes this instrument ; and relates several experiments which he made with a view to test the correctness of its action .
He first prepared 160 , and then 320 series of the constant battery , in halfpint porcelain cells , excited with solutions of sulphate of copper and muriate of soda ; but although the effects , after the contact had been completed , were execcdingly brilliant , not the slightest spark could be obtained .
He was equally unsuccessful with a water battery of 150 series , each series being placed in a quart glass vessel ; and also with a water battery belonging to Professor Daniell , con ?
sisting of 1020 series ; but when a Leyden battery of nine jars was introduced into the circuit of the latter , sparks passed to the extent , in one instance , of six ve-thousandths of an inch .
The author mentions his having been present at the experiment of Professor Daniell , on the 16th of February , 1839 , when that gentleman had 70 series of his large constant battery in action ; and having been witness of the powerful effects obtained by this apparatus , he was induced to prepare 100 series of precisely the same dimensions , and similarly excited : but although this powerful apparatus was used under every advantage , and the other effects produced were in every respect in accordance with the extent of the elements employed , still no spark could be obtained until the circuit was completed ; even a single fold of a silk handkerchief , or a piece of dry tissue paper , was sufficient to insulate the power of a battery , which , after the circuit had been once completed , fused titanium , and heated 16 feet 4 inches of No. 20 platinum wire .
The author then describes a series of experiments made with in ?
duced currents .
Twelve hundred and twenty iron wires , each insulated by resin , were bent into the form of a horse-shoe .
A primary wire of 115 feet and a secondary of 2268 feet , were wound round the iron wires .
With this arrangement he obtained a direct spark ( through the secondary current ) , sufficient to pierce paper , to charge a Leyden jar , tS:c .
Several forms of apparatus employed by the author are next described , and also a series of 10,000 of Jacubone 's piles .
With this arrangement he charged a Leyden battery to a considerable degree of intensity , and obtained direct sparks of threefiftieths of an inch in length .
He ultimately succeeded in obtaining chemical decompositions of a solution of iodine and r)otassium , the iodine appearing at the end composed of the black oxide of manganese .

