16 The Action of Animal Extracts on Milk Secretion .
By E. A. Schafer , F.B.S. , and K. Mackenzie , M.B. , Ch. B. ( Beceived March 7 , \#151 ; Bead March 9 , 1911 .
) ( From the Department of Physiology , University of Edinburgh .
) Since the secretion ' of milk is known to proceed with the same regularity whether the nerves to the mammary glands are cut or intact* , it seems probable that it is provoked by other than nervous stimuli .
It cannot , indeed , be contested that the secretion is influenced through the nervous system , but this may be indirect , if the formation and outpouring of the secretion can be shown to be produced by chemical agents ( hormones ) circulating in the blood , such as have been found to excite secretion in the pancreas , f which is stimulated to active secretion by a material obtained from the mucous membrane of the duodenum , and in the kidneywhich is stimulated by a material yielded by the posterior or infundibular portion of the pituitary body .
We have investigated the action of a large number of animal extracts upon the flow of milk from the mammary glands of lactating animals , chiefly cats , but including some dogs .
The extracts , which were made with Binger 's solution , and wrere in most cases previously boiled , were injected slowly and in small amount ( not more than 5 e.c. at a time ) into a superficial vein , and the flow of milk , if any , was recorded by one of two methods , or by both methods simultaneously .
The simpler method consists in recording the rate of exudation of milk from a small and superficial cut into one of the mammary glands ( exudation method ) .
The other method consists in recording the flow of milk led from a canula tied into a cut nipple ( nipple method ) ; in either case the milk is allowed to drop upon an electric recorder , and the drops are marked by an electromagnetic signal upon the paper of a kymograph .
On this paper are also recorded at the same time in some of our experiments the blood-pressure , the volume of the kidney , and the rate of excretion of urine .
The animals were antesthetised either with chloroform alone or with chloroform followed by chloral , the latter being administered either intravenously or subcutaneously ; after the complete effect of the chloral is established , the chloroform administration is stopped .
* Eckhard , ' Beitrage sir Anat .
u. Physiol. , ' 1855 and 1897 .
t Bayliss and Starling , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1902 , vol. 28 , and 1903 , vol. 29 .
J Schafer and Herring , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1906 , B , vol. 199 .
The Action of Animal Extracts on Milk Secretion .
17 Until quite recently nothing had been ascertained regarding the influence of animal extracts upon milk secretion .
But in a type-written notice inserted into a pamphlet on " Internal Secretions , " by Dr. Isaac Ott , of Philadelphia , and dated October 28 , 1910 , the brief statement is made that " infundibulin is a rapid and powerful galactagogue."* This pamphlet came into our hands on November 20 , and the statement in question furnished the starting point of our investigations .
The animal extracts which we have investigated are numerous , and include not only extracts of both parts of the pituitary body , but also extracts of placenta , f uterus in process of involution , mammary gland , duodenum , liver , spleen , J kidney , thyroid , ovary , testicle , thymus , and suprarenal capsules .
In the ovary we investigated separately the ovarian substance proper and the substance of the corpora lutea .
And in view of the growth of mammary gland substance which was found by Miss Lane-Claypon and Prof. StarlingS to be produced in the ( virgin ) rabbit by hypodermic injections of extract of rabbit-foetuses , we also tried the effect on the secretion of the mammary gland ( of the cat ) of intravenous injection of extract of cat-foetuses , with , however , a negative result .
The most constant positive results which we have obtained have been those resulting from extracts of the posterior lobe of the pituitary body ( of the ox ) and of corpus luteum ( of the sheep ) .
Of these two materials that contained in the posterior lobe of the pituitary body is the more active .
The accompanying curve ( fig. 1 ) exhibits the effect produced by intravenous injection of a small amount of this extract .
Prior to the injection no milk was passing from the gland ; indeed , in the absence of a special stimulus the secretion almost always remains in abeyance .
But within 20 seconds of the injection , drops of milk began to fall fast from the tube , the end of which was little , if at all , below the level of the gland with which it was connected , so that the flow was not assisted by suction , but must have been the result of the vis a tergo of the secretion .
The effect * " Infundibulin " appears to be a proprietary article and is described by Ott ( p. 57 ) as " a 20-per cent , extract of the pituitary .
" But probably , as the name implies , the infundibular part of the gland is alone used in its preparation .
t Lederer and Pribram ( " Beport of Internat .
Physiol. Congress , Vienna , " ' Zentralbl .
f. Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 24 , p. 817 ) state that they have obtained increase of milk secretion in the goat as the result of intravenous injection of unboiled extract of placenta , but our results with this extract have so far been negative ( in the cat and dog ) .
+ In investigating the action of spleen extracts we have incidentally found that such extracts may produce marked diuresis , without either rise of blood-pressure ( in point of fact the blood-pressure falls ) or increase of kidney volume .
The diuresis must therefore be caused by a direct stimulating action upon the secreting cells of the kidney .
S ' Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , 1906 , vol. 77 .
VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. C oo Fig. 1.\#151 ; Graphic record of the milk secretion which was produced in a lactating cat as the result of intravenous injection of 4 c.c. Ringer 's solution containing 1'5 c.c. of pituitrin solution ( Park , Davis and Co. ) prepared from extract of posterior lobe of ox-pituitary .
The uppermost line records the blood-pressure ; the second the dropping of milk from a tube connected with a cut nipple ; the drops fell at first so fast as to run together in the record ; the third line marks the signal of injection ; the fourth line time-intervals of 10 secs .
Messrs. E. A. Schafer and K. Mackenzie .
[ Mar. 7 , 1911 .
] The Action of Animal Extracts on Milk Secretion .
19 passed off after three or four minutes , during which time 30 to 40 larse drops of milk were recorded .
This , it must be remembered , was from two of the mammary glands only ( usually two were led off to the one drop-recorder ) , representing about one-fifth of the whole glandular mass .
But it lasts only a short time , in which respect it differs from the effect which the same extract produces upon the urinary secretion , the rate of which may be increased during many minutes after the injection , and even to some degree for a prolonged period .
In the case of the urinary secretion , a second or " repeat " dose of posterior-lobe extract , given within a period of half an hour or less , causes a renewed increase of urine secretion , although this may be now unaccompanied by a repetition of the rise of blood-pressure which accompanies the first dose.* But the effect of a repeat dose upon the secretion of the mammary gland is much less than that produced by the first dose , and in some cases fails to be recorded by the " nipple method , " although it can be sometimes observed by the " exudation method " ; and such repetition produces a smaller result than the previous one .
We find that the galactagogue substance of the pituitary body is not present in the pars anterior , but only in the pars intermedia and pars posterior of the gland .
It is not yielded to absolute alcohol , although a very small amount of water in the alcohol used will suffice to extract it .
It is not destroyed by contact with absolute alcohol ( at least within a reasonable period ) , nor by repeated boiling , nor by prolonged keeping in the dry state ( we have obtained marked effect from dry posterior-lobe substance which has been kept some years in a stoppered bottle ) .
The galactagogue action runs parallel in time with the action of the extract upon the systemic bloodvessels , which are contracted by posterior-lobe extracts.]* It is probable , however , that , as in the case of the kidney , the blood-vessels of the mammary gland do not share in the general constriction which this extract produces .
But we have not yet succeeded in definitely determining by a plethysmo-graphic method whether the vessels of the gland dilate during the increased secretion , although to judge from the appearance of the cut gland this would seem to be the case .
This is a point which must be the subject of further investigation .
Another extract which in our hands has yielded a definite positive result is extract of fresh corpus luteum , prepared with Binger 's solution .
The \#166 ; effect is quite distinct but less decided than with extract of posterior lobe of pituitary : for , instead of some 30 to 40 drops , not more than 5 drops of milk were yielded by the nipple method after injection of 5 c.c. of a corpus * Schafer and Herring , op .
cit. + Oliver and Schafer , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , 1895 .
Messrs. E. A. Schafer and K. Mackenzie .
[ Mar. 7\gt ; luteum extract made up in the proportion of 1 part of the fresh tissue to 10 parts of Ringer 's solution .
One such result is shown in fig. 2 , A. The active substance of the corpus luteum is probably not the same as that obtained from the pituitary , for its galactagogue action is unaccompanied by the same general rise of blood-pressure ; indeed , there is usually a fall of a more or less decided character .
As with the pituitary material , the galactagogue substance of the corpus luteum is not yielded to absolute alcohol , nor destroyed by contact with alcohol ( at least for a short time ) nor by repeated boiling .
And , as with pituitary extract , a repeat dose is usually less effective as compared with the first dose ; the amount of milk formed under its influence is often insufficient to cause the secretion to flow from the nipple , although secretion may be apparent when the exudation method is adopted .
A second effect is , however , distinct in fig. 2 , B. Milk C.l. Sc.c.= -5g .
Tig .
2.\#151 ; Records of milk-flow from a nipple of a lactating cat as the result of the intravenous injection of 5 c.c. of Ringer 's solution extract of corpus luteum from sheeps ovary .
Two such injections were given .
In the record of the first ( A ) six drops are-shown ; in that of the second ( B ) five drops .
Signal and time tracings as in fig. 1 .
In order to produce the galactagogue effect , it is not necessary to employ a lactating animal .
In one instance we obtained a free flow of fluid of serous appearance\#151 ; from the incised mamma of a cat , apparently virgin , and not fully grown .
This is illustrated in the tracing which is shown in fig. o , which is from a small cat , weighing 2 kilogrammes and rather more than three parts grown .
The mammary glands were very small and littlo developed , and confined to the neighbourhood of the nipples .
Hie fluid which exuded from the incised gland was led by a wet cotton wick over a drop-recorder and the drops were marked in the usual way by electio-magnetic signal .
Prior to the injection ( of the corpus luteum extract ) no flow 1911 .
] The Action of Animal Extracts on Milk Secretion .
21 was registered , but within less than a minute of the injection the flow began and was , in fact , at first so rapid that two or three drops fell at the side and escaped registration .
The galactagogue action in this case lasted about ten minutes .
A second dose proved ineffective .
We have further investigated the action of a number of drugs which from their influence on other glands might have been expected to influence the secretion of the mammary gland ; but with negative results .
Amongst these may be mentioned pilocarpine , eserine , and nicotine .
A dose of pilocarpine capable of producing intense salivation and lacrimation has no perceptible influence on milk secretion .
Secretine also gives a negative result .
Nor have we so far succeeded in obtaining any positive result from the electrical excitation of the nerves to the glands .
Our experiments in this direction have not been sufficiently numerous for us to state definitely that no effect is under any circumstances so obtainable , but hitherto neither by reflex nor by direct stimulation have we been able to cause a flow of milk from the nipple .
The work in this and in some other directions is , however , still in progress , and the results will be given in a later communication .
Within the last few days , and since the \#166 ; completion of our joint work upon this subject , * ' there has come into our hands the number of the ' Proceedings of the Society of Experimental Biology of New York , ' which / describes the communications made to that Society at its meeting on December 21,1910 .
Amongst these communications are two by Drs. Isaac Ott and J. C. Scott , which deal with the galactagogue action not only of " infundibulin " but also of other animal extracts .
These authors have used the goat as the subject of their * Hie experiments are being continued by Dr. Mackenzie alone .
oo The Action of Animal Extracts on Milk Secretion .
experiments , determining the amount of milk which could be drawn from the udder by an aspirator before and after the injection of various extracts into a vein of the ear .
They record a very striking action of infundibulin , the amount of secretion being increased in one experiment as the result of a single injection from 5 drops to 400 drops of milk in periods of five minutes ; they have also obtained a galactagogue action from extracts of corpus luteum , thymus and pineal gland .
Although we have not been able to determine this action in the case of the two last mentioned glands , our experiments upon the pituitary and corpus luteum have yielded results , in the cat and dog , similar to those obtained by Drs. Ott and Scott in the goat , and we shall await with interest the publication of the details of their experiments .
In any case the credit of the discovery of hormones which influence milk secretion belongs to them , and our results , although arrived at on other animals and by a somewhat different method , are in the main confirmatory of those which the American authors have established , at least for the early period of lactation .
[ Note added March 31 , 1911.\#151 ; Since this paper was read , Dr. Mackenzie has found that extracts both of involuting uterine mucous membrane and of mammary gland itself are markedly galactagogue , and that with regard to the action of pituitary extract , the source of this extract appears to make no difference to its activity ; the extract of the bird 's pituitary being quite as active in promoting the mammary secretion as that of the mammalian pituitary itself .
He has also determined that atropine does not interfere with the action of any of these galactagogues .
]

