245 $75 .
] On the Cruise of H.M.S. ' ie Foraminiferal shells whose internal casts formed the Q-reensand iposit of the Cretaceous epoch , must remain for the present an open iiestion* .
[ .
" Report to the Hydrographer of the Admiralty on the Cruise of H.M.S. eChallenger *from July to November 1874 .
" By Prof. Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff on Board .
Received January 4,1875 .
( Published by permission of the Lords of the Admiralty .
) H.M.S. * Challenger , ' Hong Kong .
The 'Challenger ' left Port Nicholson on the 7th of July , 1874 , and roceeded under sail along the east coast of New Zealand .
On the 8th re rounded and trawled in 1100 fathoms , lat. 40 ' 13 ' S. , long .
177 ' 43 ' ] .
, with a bottom-temperature of 2 ' C. and a bottom of soft greenish oze .
Many animals were brought up by this trawl resembling closely Lose which we had taken at a corresponding depth in other portions of he southern sea .
On the 10th we again trawled and sounded in 700 athoms about 40 miles to the east of East Cape .
We then continued our course northwards towards the Kermadec [ slands , and on the 14th we took our usual series of observations midday between Macauley and Raoul Islands in the Kermadec group .
At his station we trawled at a depth of 630 fathoms ; and we were greatly struck with the general resemblance between the assemblage of animal forms brought up in the trawl and the results of a good haul in about the same depth off the coast of Portugal or North Africa .
Among the more interesting objects were a very large and splendid specimen of a Hexactinellid sponge allied to Poliopog several other fine sponges referred to the same group , and three or four examples of two species of Pentacrinus new to science , resembling generally asteria , L. , from the Antilles .
We trawled on the following day in 600 fathoms , 45 miles to the north of Raoul Island , with nearly equal success .
On the evening of Sunday the 19th we arrived at Tongatabu and called on the principal missionary , Mr. Baker , from whom we received every possible attention during our short stay .
After spending two days in visiting different parts of the island , we left Tongatabu on the 22nd of July , and after taking a few hauls of the dredge in shallow water we proceeded towards Kandavu in the Eijis .
On the 24th we stopped off Matuku Island and landed a party of surveyors and naturalists j and while they were taking * It is due to Prof. W. C. Williamson to point out that , in the Memoir already referred to , " he indicated the probability " that many of our European Greensands , and other siliceous strata , however barren of such structures they appear , may have once contained multitudes of calcareous microscopic organisms , some of which have been removed after the consolidation of the strata , leaving either hollow casts , or having had the cavities subsequently filled with silica .
" Prof. W. Thomson on the [ Feb. 4 , observations and exploring on shore we trawled in 300 fathoms , and procured among other things a fine specimen of the Pearly Nautilus ( .Nautiluspompilius ) , which we kept living in a tub for some time in order to observe its movements and attitudes .
On Saturday , the 25th of July , we arrived at Kandavu , on the 28th we went to Levuka , and on the 3rd of August we returned to Kandavu where we remained until the 10th .
At Fiji the civilian staff were occupied in examining the reefs and generally in observing the natural history of the islands ; and in this we received all friendly assistance from H.M. Consul Mr. Layard and from Mr. Thurston , minister of King Cacobau .
During our stay , a mixed party of naval and civilian officers went in the ship 's barge to Mbaw and visited the king .
Between New Zealand and the Fiji group only two soundings were taken to a greater depth than 1000 fathoms .
Of these , one , at a depth of 1100 fathoms off Cape Tumagain , New Zealand , gave a bottom of grey ooze and a bottom-temperature of 2 ' C. ; and the second , at 2900 fathoms , lat. 25 ' 5 ' S. , long .
172 ' 56 ' W. , midway between the Kerma-decs and the Friendly Islands , gave " red clay " and a temperature of 0o,5 C. Four serial temperature-soundings were taken ; and the distribution of temperature was found to correspond , in its main features , with what we had previously met with in oceans communicating freely with the Antarctic sea .
The dredgings , which , with the exception of one near the New-Zealand coast , were all at depths varying from 300 to 600 fathoms , yielded a great number of very interesting forms ; but , as I have already remarked , they tended to confirm our impression that , even at these comparatively moderate depths ( at all depths , in fact , much greater than a hundred fathoms ) , while species differ in different localities , and different generic types are from time to time introduced , the general character of the fauna is everywhere very much the same .
On the 10th of August we left Kandavu and proceeded towards Api , one of the least known of the New Hebrides , where there is as yet no permanent missionary station .
On the 12th we sounded and trawled in 1350 fathoms , with a bottom of reddish ooze ; we sounded again on the 15th in 1450 fathoms , with red clay ; and on the 18th , after passing through the channel between Makuru and Two-Hill Islands , we stopped off A pi in 25 fathoms , close to the edge of the reef and opposite a landing-place .
In order to ensure , as far as we could , the good will of the natives , Captain Nares had given a passage to eleven Api men , who had been employed for a three-years ' term in Fiji , under the arrangement which exists there for the regulation of Polynesian labour .
Two or three of us , with an armed party , took the returned labourers ashore and as thfl| natives ( although they appeared somewhat mistrustful and were all armc\#174 ; frj Cruise of H.M.S. ' i\#171 ; ii clubs , spears , and bows with sheaves of poisoned arrows ) were Mtlciently friendly , nearly all the officers landed and spent a few hours Sibling about the shore .
It was not thought prudent to go far into hforest , which was very dense and luxuriant and came close down to lib beach .
he natives were almost entirely naked , and certainly bore a very * Hge and forbidding aspect .
One of them was manifestly greatly sterior to the others , and appeared to exercise a considerable influence ov them .
He wore trousers and a shirt and a felt hat , and could .ilk English fairly .
He recognized me , at once , as having seen me at ijjj sugar-plantation in Queensland , where he had been for the usual i he-years ' engagement , and showed me , with great pride , a note from hi former employer , saying that the bearer was anxious to return to his fdce , and that he would willingly pay his passage-money and all Rienses , in case of his being given a passage to Brisbane .
I had been \gt ; ;ing some attention to the South-Sea labour question , and had formed i ery strong opinion of the value to the inhabitants of these islands of ft ) opportunity given them , by this demand for labour , of testing their \acity to enter into and mix with the general current of working men , ed. thereby possibly avoid extermination ; and I was greatly pleased to the result in this instance .
ikom the island of Api we shaped our course to the north-westward t\gt ; ards Rain Island , in a breach of the great barrier reef not far from m entrance of Torres Strait .
On the 19th of August we sounded , lat. 1 47 ' S. , long .
165 ' 20 ' E. , at a depth of 2650 fathoms , with a bottom \gt ; o'red clay " and a bottom-temperature of 10,7 C. ( 35 ' E. ) .
A serial riperature-sounding was taken to the depth of 1500 fathoms ; and it " 3 found that the minimum temperature ( 1'*7 C. ) was reached at a bth of 1300 fathoms , and that consequently a stratum of water at that uform temperature extended from that depth to the bottom .
Serial temperature-soundings were taken on the 21st , the 24th , the h , the 27th , and the 28th of August in 2325 , 2450 , 2440 , 2275 , and \gt ; DO fathoms respectively ; and in each case the minimum temperature cl'*7 C. ( ora temperature so near it as to leave the difference within t ' limit of instrumental or personal error of observation ) extended in a ttform layer , averaging 7000 feet in thickness , from the depth of 1300 f horns to the bottom .
Lt will be seen by reference to the chart that on our course from Api 11Raine Island we traversed for a distance of 1400 miles a sea included 'thin a broken barrier , consisting of the continent of Australia to the 'st , the Louisiade archipelago , the Solomon Islands , and a small part ^ tbMl W ' north , the New Hebrides to the east , and New 1 the line of shoals and reefs which connect that island J ^KU8tralia sou^b .
The obvious explanation of this peculiar !
\lt ; *tnbution of temperatures within this area , which we have called , for Prof. W. Thomson on the [ Feb. 4 ; convenience of reference , the " Mielanesian Sea , is that there is no free communication between this sea and the outer ocean to a greater depth than 1300 fathoms , the encircling barrier being complete up to that point .
The " Melanesian Sea " is in the belt of the S.E. trade-winds , and the general course of a drift-current which traverses its long axis , at are average rate of half a knot an hour , is to the westward ; evaporation is , as it is usually throughout the course of the trade-winds , greatly in excess of precipitation , so that a large amount of the surface-water is removed .
This must , of course , be replaced , and it is so by an indraughi of ocean-water over the lowest part of the barrier , at the proper temperature for that depth .
\#165 ; e had previously found a temperature of 1'*7 C at a depth of 1300 fathoms on the 16th , the 19th , and the 21st of Junt between Australia and New Zealand , on the 17th of July in lat. 25 ' 5 S. , long .
172 ' 56 ' W. , and earlier on the 10th of March in lat. 47 ' 25 ' S The bottom within the Melanesian Sea may be described generally ai " red clay , " with a small but varying proportion of the shells of Foramini fera , sometimes whole , but more usually much broken up and decomposed In one or two soundings the tube showed curiously interstratified de posits , differing markedly in colour and in composition .
The trawl wa sent down on the 25th of August to a depth of 2440 fathoms .
Th\gt ; animals procured were few in number\#151 ; some spicules of Hyalonema , 1 dead example of Fungia symmetrica , two living specimens of a species 0 Umbellularia ( which appears to differ in some respects from the Atlanti form ) , and a very fine and perfect Brisinga , also living .
The existence 0 animal life is therefore not impossible in the still bottom-water of sue ) an enclosed sea ; but , as we have already seen in the Mediterranean , th\gt ; conditions do not appear to be favourable to its development .
On tb 29th of August we trawled in 1400 fathoms , about 75 miles to the eas of Pain Island , with somewhat greater success .
This might have bee !
anticipated , as the depth was not much greater than that at which tb free interchange of water was taking place , and diffusion and intermix ture were no doubt much more rapid than at the bottom On the 31st of August we visited Pain Island , which we found t1 correspond in every respect to Jukes 's description in the " Voyage of th * Fly .
' " We observed and collected the species of birds which were breeding there .
In the afternoon we dredged off the island in fathoms , with small success , and proceeded towards Port Albany , C\#174 ; P Tork , where we arrived on the 1st of September .
We left Somerset on the 8th , and proceeded across the Arafura 8\#169 ; to the Aru Islands , reaching Dobbo .
on the island of Wamma , on the ltP1 W^e found no depth in the Arafura Sea greater than 50 fathoms , and w* average depth was from 25 to 30 fathoms .
The bottom was a greenis ' mud , due apparently to a great degree to the deposit from the gre8 rivers of New Guinea and the rivers falling into the Gulf of Carpentaria 1 r5 .
] Cruise of H.M.S. Umal life was not abundant .
Many of the animals seemed dwarfed , :v. .
the fauna had somewhat the character of that of a harbour or .'fiary .
The specific gravity of the surface-water was unusually low , ring on the 23rd , off Dobbo Harbour , to 1*02505 , the temperature nuced to 15'*5 C. , distilled water at 4 ' C. = 1 .
\fter spending a few days shooting Paradise-birds and getting an \lt ; a of the natural history of the island of Wokaw , we left Dobbo on t 23rd and proceeded to Ke Doulan , the principal village in the Ke i up .
We then went on to the island of Banda , where we remained a uple of days , and thence to Amboina , which we reached on the 4th of Ctober .
3n the 26th of September , after leaving the Ke Islands , we sounded al trawled in 129 fathoms .
The trawl brought up a wonderful assem-bge of things , including , with a large number of Mollusca , Crustacea , ai Echinoderms of more ordinary forms , several fine examples of unde-ribed hexactinellid sponges , and several very perfect specimens of two iw species of Pentacrinus .
Temperature-soundings were taken on the ith of September and on the 3rd of October , at depths of 2800 and 20 fathoms respectively ; and on both occasions the minimum tempera-ire ( 3 ' C. ) was reached at a depth of 900 fathoms , indicating that the ivest part of a barrier enclosing the Banda Sea , bounded by Taliabo , iru , and Ceram on the north , the Aru Islands on the east , Timor and i0 Salwatty Islands on the south , and Celebes and the shoals of the ores Sea on the west , is 900 fathoms beneath the surface .
Prom Amboina we went to Ternate , and thence across the Molucca ssage into the Celebes Sea , by the passage between Bejaren Island ; d the north-east point of Celebes .
On the 13th , we trawled and took rial temperatures near G-reat Tawallie Island .
The trawl brought up veral specimens of a very elegant stalked halichondroid sponge new to ience , and the thermometer gave temperatures sinking normally to a ttom-temperature of 2'*04 C. On the following day we sounded in iOO fathoms , with again a normal bottom-temperature of 1'*9 C. It ems , therefore , that the Molucca passage communicates freely with the iter ocean ; it does so at all events to the depth of 1200 fathoms , and ost probably to the bottom , if it include greater depths .
In the Celebes Sea we had two deep soundings\#151 ; on the 20th , to 2150 \#166 ; thorns , and on the 22nd , to 2600 fathoms .
On both occasions serial mperature-soundings were taken , and on both the minimum tempera-ire of 3'*7 C. ( 38'*7 E. ) was reached at 700 fathoms .
A passage of iis depth into the Celebes Sea is therefore indicated , very probably 10m the Molucca passage .
This temperature corresponds almost sactly with that taken by Captain Chimmo in the same area .
We *awled on the 20th ; and although the number of specimens procured ras not large , they were sufficient to give evidence of the presence of lie usual deep-sea fauna .
VOL , XXIII , x Prof. Allman on the Structure L^eb .
U , We reached Zamboanga on the 23rd , and on the 26th we passed into the Sulu Sea and trawled at a depth of 102 fathoms .
On the 27th we sounded to 2550 fathoms , and took a serial temperature-sounding .
A minimum temperature of 10 ' C. was found at 400 fathoms ; so that the Sulu Sea must be regarded as the fourth of this singular succession of basins , cut off by barriers of varying height from communication with the ocean .
This observation in the main confirmed those of Captain Chimmo in the same locality .
The minimum temperature reached was the same in both , but we appear to have found it at a somewhat higher level .
We arrived at Ilo Ho on the 28th , and proceeded by the eastern passage to Manilla , which we reached on the 4th of November .
The collections have been packed and catalogued in the usual way , and will be sent home from Hong Kong .
We have had an opportunity during this cruise of making a very large number of observations of great interest .
I believe I may say that the departments under my charge are going on in a very satisfactory way .
February 11 , 1875 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chau* .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Structure and Development of Myriothela .
" By Prof. Allman , F.R.S. Received February 5 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The endoderm of the body is composed of numerous layers of large spherical cells composed of clear protoplasm , enclosing a nucleus with some brown granules and refringent corpuscles .
Externally it is* continued in an altered form into the tentacles , while internally it forms long thick villus-like processes which project into the cavity of the body .
Towards the free ends of these processes there are abundantly developed among the large clearer cells , smaller , easily isolated spherical cells , filled with opaque brown granules .
WKere .the endoderm passes into the tentacles it loses its large clear-celled condition , and consists of small round cells , so loaded with opaque granules that the axis of the tentacle appears nearly white under reflected light .
The free surface of the endoderm carries , at intervals , long , very slender , sluggishly vibrating cilia , and is overlaid by a thin layer of homogeneous protoplasm , which on the villus-like processes becomes especially d'stinct ,

