The following papers were read : viz. 1 .
" Inquiries concerning the Elementary Laws of Electricity .
" Third Series .
By W. Snow Harris , Esq. , F.R.S. The author states , that it has been his object , in this series of in ?
vestigations , to perfect the methods of electrical measurement , when ?
there relating to the quantity of electricity , intensity , inductive power , or any other element requiring an exact numerical value , and by operating with large statical forces both attractive and repulsive , to avoid many sources of error inseparable from the employment of extremely small quantities of electricity , such as those affecting the delicate balance used by Coulomb .
He then describes some im ?
provements in his hydrostatic electrometer , an instrument already mentioned in his first paper , which , although not available for the measurement of such minute forces as those to which the balance of torsion is applicable , is still peculiarly delicate and well adapted to researches in statical electricity .
Its indications depending on the force between two opposed planes operating on each other under given conditions , are reducible to simple laws , and are hence in ?
variable and certain ; the attractive force between the discs is not subject to any oblique action , is referable to any given distance , and may be estimated in terms of a known standard of weight .
The author next proceeds to the further consideration of the subject of his former papers , viz. the elementary laws of electrical action .
He proves , by the following experiments , that induction invariably precedes , or at least accompanies attraction and repulsion .
A circular disc of gilded wood , about six inches in diameter , is sus ?
pended by an insulating thread of varnished silk from a delicate ba ?
lance ; a delicate electroscope is attached tothis disc , and the whole is counterpoised by a weight .
A similar disc insulated on a glass rod , and having also an electroscope attached to it , is placed at any convenient distance immediately under the former .
One of the lower discs being charged with either electricity and the other remaining in ?
sulated and neutral , the electroscope of the neutral disc begins to rise , whilst that of the charged disc , already in a state of divergence , tends to collapse : when these respective effects ensue , the suspend ?
ed disc descends the charged disc .
Two inductive actions are in ?
dicated in this experiment , the one the author considers to be a direct induction , the other a reflected induction .
If the two discs are both charged with opposite electricities , on opposing them as before , the electroscopes begin to fall back , at which moment the discs appear to attract each other .
But if the discs are both charged with the same kind of electricity , the diver ?
gence of the electroscopes increases , and at this instant the suspended disc recedes from that which is fixed , being apparently repelled byit .
The author proceeds to examine strictly the nature of this in ?
ductive influence , and adduces experiments to render probable that it is in some way dependent on the presence of an exquisitely subtle form of matter which may become disturbed in bodies , and assumes new states or conditions of distribution .
Very numerous experiments are detailed , showing the influence of changes of different intensity , of changes in the dimensions and distances of the opposed discs , of interposed bodies of different forms , &amp;c. on the phenomena of induction .
The author concludes by giving the following formulae as the results of his investigations regarding the elementary laws of electrical induction and attraction .
In these expressions Q= quantity of charge , T= the direct induction , q= the quantity of electricity displaced , t= its intensity , T= the reflected induction , q1 = the disturbed quantity , tf ?
its intensity , q " = the total quantity in the opposed charged surface , A= the surface , D= the distance between the opposed points , F= the force of attraction .
For the direct induction : 1- &lt; v/ D D For the reflected induction : For the attractive force between a charged and a neutral free conductor : Qa T F=i &gt; F=A* ' For the force between two unchangeable surfaces , one positive the other negative : Q2 F = ? .

