1877 .
] Mr. C. S. Tomes on Vascular Dentine , 43 Before the introduction of the absolute system of electro-magnetic measure , there was no means of estimating the electromotive force so brought into play by the flow of a river or ocean stream , and the magnitude of the effect was perhaps overestimated .
A Table is given , showing the electromotive force in volts produced in two or three cases .
Difference of potential between two sides in volte .
Gulf-stream at lat. 30 ' N. , long .
60 ' W ... ... 8*6 Equatorial current , lat. 10 ' N. , long .
40 ' W. . .
10*0 Dover and Calais tidal current ... ... ... ... ... 3'0 Thames at Waterloo Bridge ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
*016 This electromotive force without doubt generates a current transverse to the direction of the flow ; but since the surrounding still water or the river bed or channel is not a non-conductor , any attempt practically to detect it by plates placed on either side of the stream is not likely to succeed , since the current through the galvanometer is only a derived portion of the current in the stream , A comparison of a chart of ocean-currents with one of the isogonic lines does not seem to show any distortion of the lines of equal variation where they cut across .
If , now , electric currents of any great magnitude were generated in ocean-currents , such would undoubtedly be the case .
Though Faraday 's failure to detect any magneto-electric current in the Thames may have been partly due to his employment of polarizable electrodes , still there is evidence enough to show that these currents , though certainly existing and capable of being produced on a laboratory scale , cannot be regarded as contributing in any sensible degree towards affecting the form and distribution of the isogonic lines .
Those who have looked to this as a possible partial cause of the irregularity observed have been led , no doubt , by the dimensions of the streams to exaggerate the magneto-electric induction caused by their flow .
II .
" On the Structure and Development of Vascular Dentine .
" By Charles S. Tomes , M.A. Communicated by John Tomes , F.R.S. Received February 6 , 1877 .
( Abstract .
) The nomenclature and classification of the varieties of dentine have hitherto been based solely upon the appearances discoverable in dried teeth ; in the present communication the author seeks to amend and place upon a more satisfactory basis the grouping of these several kinds of dentine , by bringing to bear upon their arrangement observations upon the nature of the contents of those large tubes which give to the tissues their name of " vascular " dentine , and , more especially , observations upon the methods by which they are developed .
Mr. C. S. Tomes on Vascular Dentine .
[ Mar. 8 , Vaso-dentine is the term generally used to designate a variety of dentine exceedingly common in the class of Fish , in which the substance of the tooth is permeated by a number of anastomosing tubes , of considerable size , which have been called " medullary ' canals , as they have been supposed to contain pulp\#151 ; tissue \ whilst osteo\#151 ; dentine is used to designate that variety of vaso-dentine in which the matrix is arranged in concentric layers round the canals , like the laminae of an Haversian system in bone , and in which spaces like the lacunae of bone occur .
The author would not propose to introduce any new .
terms , but to render more precise and definite the meaning attached to the terms vaso-dentine and osteo-dentine , premising that the application of the two words will be greatly altered by so doing .
The author defines vaso-dentine as a modification of dentine which is permeated by a system of canals far larger than ordinary dentinal tubes , which anastomose freely with one another , and contain capillary ^blood-vessels and nothing else .
That is to say , each several canal contains a capillary of the same calibre as itself , and no cellular or other pulp-tissue , for which , in fact , there is no room ; the canals were formed by the enclosure of capillaries of the pulp in a calcified matrix .
True dentinal tubes may coexist with the large capillary canals ; but if they do , they radiate from the central pulp-chamber and not from the canals : in the most typical vaso-dentine , such as that of the hake , the matrix is solid and there are no true dentinal tubes .
Yaso-dentine is developed from a sharply defined " membrana eboris , " or layer of odontoblast cells .
Osteo-dentine , on the other hand , is also permeated by a system of large channels , but these do not ( except as an accident ) contain capillary blood-vessels , nor were they developed around capillaries .
True " dentinal tubes " can perhaps hardly be said to exist ; but the tubes of small calibre which do exist radiate , not from a common pulp-chamber , but from the several canals .
Its greatest distinction from vaso-dentine lies in the manner of its development .
It is not ( if we except a thin outer layer of hard dentine with which it is often clothed ) developed from a specialized layer of odontoblast cells ; but calcifying trabeculae shoot rapidly from the interior of the first-formed dentine cap through the whole substance of the formative pulp , and the canal-system ultimately formed is due to the partial coalescence of these ossifying trabeculae leaving interspaces between them .
The canals have therefore nothing whatever to do with the blood-vessels of the pulp , and therefore do not correspond very closely with those of vaso-dentine .
Osteo-dentine is thus not derived from the calcification of a " membrana eboris , " or special layer of odontoblast cells , but by ossification ( of cells like osteoblasts ) shooting through its whole mass .
Thus the tooth-pulp can be bodily withdrawn from a tooth consisting of vaso-dentine by tearing across the capillaries only , and the interior of the dentine cap will be left smooth ; but the pulp can by no possibility Mr. C. S. Tomes on Vascular Dentine .
1877 .
] be withdrawn from a tooth which is advancing in calcification into osteo-dentine , because it is permeated through and through by a network of calcifying trabeculae .
It is possible by careful observation to distinguish in sections of dried teeth true vaso-dentine from osteo-dentine ; the majority of teeth consisting of the latter tissue ordinarily pass as consisting of the former the teeth of the pike , of many Plagiostomi , which really consist of osteo-dentine , but are always described as vaso-dentine ) .
The teeth of the hake are selected as an illustration of vaso-dentine ; they have large pulps , richly vascular , and red blood circulates abundantly through the capillary channels of the dentine , so that the tooth , when the fish is alive , is brilliantly red .
The matrix of the dentine is dense and solid ; i. e. it is not permeated by dentinal tubes .
The transition between typical vaso-dentine , such as that of the Gadidse , and hard unvascular dentine , such as that of most mammalian teeth , is gradual .
Thus most of the Pleuronectidae have teeth which at their basal halves consist of typical vaso-dentine without dentinal tubes , just like that of the Gadidse ; but above the middle , dentinal tubes radiating out from the central pulp-chamber begin to appear , at first sparsely , and the capillary canals to become fewer , till the apex of the tooth consists of ordinary fine-tubed dentine , in which few , if any , capillary channels exist .
And in Serrasalmo there are teeth which are throughout composed of a dentine permeated by dentinal tubes , but in the basal half of the tooth a few capillary channels are present .
Prom such a form of dentine to ordinary hard unvascular dentine is but a short step .
The development of osteo-dentine is illustrated by a description of the teeth of a pike ; the outer layer is developed , like dentine , from a layer of cells analogous to , though less specialized than , odontoblasts ; and so soon as this has been calcified the interior of the tooth is formed by a rapid ossification , just as the subjacent bone is formed .
Yaso-dentine therefore differs much less from true or unvascular dentine than osteo-dentine does , the relation between the three tissues being well seen in the teeth of Sparidse .
In Sargus ovis the incisor-like front teeth appear to be implanted by long roots ; these are formed by the dentinal formative pulps , just as are the roots of ordinary rooted teeth .
But there is this peculiarity in the nature of the process : the dentinal pulp , so long as the " crown " ( or portion which will be above the bone ) is being developed , is converted into fine-tubed unvascular dentine ; but so soon as the root or implanted portion commences to be formed , this same dentinal pulp , the apex of which is even yet forming unvascular dentine , calcifies into vaso-dentine .
Without there being any exact break or breach of continuity , the change from true dentine to vaso46 Mr. C. S. Tomes on Vascular Dentine .
[ Mar. 8 , dentine is sudden , and the tooth is easily broken off at this point .
When the greater part of the length of the root has been formed the manner of calcification again changes , this time not so abruptly , till near to the end of the root the dentinal pulp becomes converted into dentine , which is quite indistinguishable from and blends insensibly with the surrounding coarse bone by which the tooth is fastened into the socket ; there is , in fact , no reason for calling it any thing else than coarse bone , except the fact that it is the product of calcification of a dentinal pulp .
In this case a single dentinal pulp forms first hard dentine , secondly vaso-dentine , and at last osteo-dentine .
Another variety of complex dentine is brought about by foldings and subdivisions of the formative pulp : both vaso-dentine and osteo-dentine are formed by the calcification of simple pulps ; but in many instances the odontoblast-bearing surface of the pulp is itself complicated in form , and a dentine arranged as it were round many pulp-chambers is the result .
For this no better name than plici-dentine ( also a term already in use ) suggests itself : it is to be seen in its simpler form at the base of the teeth of Lepidosteus , in greater complexity at the base of the teeth of Varanus , and in exceeding complexity in the teeth of Labyrinthodonts .
The author would distinguish , therefore :\#151 ; ( i ) Hard unvascular dentine , the characters of which are sufficiently known .
( ii ) Vaso-dentine , which is developed from odontoblasts after the manner of dentine , but contains an anastomosing network of canals modelled around and containing capillaries .
( hi ) Plici-dentine , developed from odontoblasts , but from a complicated pulp , so that it is more or less divided up into distinct systems of dentinal tubes .
( iv ) Osteo-dentine , developed from osteoblasts , like bone , and quite unlike dentine ; permeated by a system of large canals , which do not contain , or have any special relation to , blood-rvessels .
The author lays no stress on the characters formerly given as distinctive of osteo-dentine ( i. e. a laminated arrangement of the matrix and the presence of lacunae ) , because ( i ) lamination of the matrix is not unknown in vaso-dentine , ( ii ) lacunae are very frequently absent from bone in fishes , and very frequently from osteo-dentine , so that these characters , as those who have tried to apply them have found , are not useful in practice .
The attachment of the teeth of the hake is so peculiar as to merit a word of notice : the inner and longer of the two rows of teeth are set upon elastic hinges , which allow of their being bent inwards towards the throat , but cause them at once to spring back into the upright position when pressure is taken off them .
This arrangement , shared by the angler , was hardly to be expected in one of the Gadidse ; but the author has found in 1877 .
] On the Development of the Nerves in the Chick .
others of the family steps towards this highly specialized arrangement , the benefit of which to a voracious predatory fish , such as the hake , is obvious* .
The common cod has teeth which admit of a small amount of motion only ; but a comparison of them with those of the hake shows clearly that a further modification in the same direction would lead to an attachment similar to that of the latter fish .
The haddock , which in this respect is a fair representative of the family , has teeth which admit of no motion at all .
III .
" Note on the Early Stages of Development of the Nerves in the Chick .
" By A. Milnes Marshall , B.A. , B.Sc. , of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , F.R.S. , Prelector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received February 13 , 1877 .
In the investigations here described embryos of ages from thirty-six hours to four days were employed .
These were , for the most part , hardened by immersion in picric acid , prepared after Kleinenberg 's method , for three to five hours , and then in alcohol of gradually increasing strength .
It is to the use of picric acid as a hardening agent that the results obtained are believed to be in large measure due .
All the more important results have , however , been confirmed by specimens hardened in chromic acid in the usual manner , though such specimens have almost invariably proved inferior in distinctness to those prepared with picric acid .
Good results have also been obtained from duck-embryos hardened in picric acid .
Owing to the less compact character of the mesoblast of the head and to the absence of proto vertebrae , the development of the cranial nerves is easier to study than that of the spinal , and will therefore be considered first .
Transverse sections through the hind brain of a forty-three hours ' chick show that the cells along the median dorsal line are more spherical in shape and slightly smaller than those composing the rest of the brain ; also that these spherical cells grow upwards , so as to form a conspicuous longitudinal ridge running along the upper surface of the hind brain immediately beneath the external epiblast .
This ridge is traceable along the whole length of the hind brain , but is much more prominent posteriorly than it is in front , where it gradually disappears .
At intervals the ridge becomes more prominent , and grows * Since the accompanying paper was placed in the hands of the Royal Society , the author has found that the vomerine and palatine teeth of the pike present a similar hinged manner of attachment , so that they oppose no obstacle to the swallowing of prey seized by the fish .

