III .
" On solmie Foraminifera from the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans , including Davis Strait and Baffin Bay .
" By W. KITCHEN PARKER , F.Z.S. , and Professor T. RUPERT JONES , F.G.S. Coi-mmunicated by Professor HUXLEY .
Received April 26 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) Hlaving received specimens of sea-bottom , by favour of friends , from Baffin Bay ( soundings taken in one of Sir E. Parry 's expeditiolus ) , from the Ilunde Islands in Davis Strait ( dredgings by Dr. P. C. Sutherland ) , from the coast of Norway ( dredgings by Messrs. M'Anidrew and Barrett ) , and from the whole wiidth of the North Atlalntic ( soundings by Commander Dayman ) , the authors have been enabled to form a tolerably correct estimate of the range and respective abundance of several species of Foraminifera in the Northern seas ; and the more perfectly by taking Professor Williamson 's and Mr. IE .
B. Brady 's researches in British Foraminifera as supplying the means of estimating the Foraminiiferal fauna of the shallower sea-zones at the eastern end of the great " Celtic Province , " and the less perfect researches of Professor Bailey on the North American coast , for the opposite , or " Virginian " end , -thus presenting for the first time the whole of a Foraminiferal fauna as a natural-history group , with its internal and external relationships .
The relative abundance or scarcity and the locations of the several species and chief varieties are shown by Tables ; and their distribution in other seas ( South Atlantic , Pacific , and Indian Oceans , and the Mediterranean and Red Seas ) is also tabulated ; and in the descriptive part of the memioir notes on their distribution , both in the recenit and the fossil state , are carefully given .
In the description of the species and varieties there are observations made on those forms which have been either little understood , hitherto unknown , or mistaken ; and the relationship , by structure or by imitation , of the species and varieties is dwelt upon .
For the description of the better-known Foraminifera , the memoir refers to the works of Williamson and Carpenter .
The authors enumerate 109 specific and varietal forms , most of which receive descriptive comment , and all of which are figured in five plates ( two for the North Atlantic and three for the Arctic Foraminifera ) with upwards of 340 figures .
The relationships of the Lagence are specially treated of .
Uvigerina , Globigerina , and especially some of the Rotalince ( Planorbulina , Discorbina , Rotalia , Pulvinulina ) and Polystomella ( including Nonionina ) are among those which are well represented in the fauna under description , and have received much attention in the memoir .

