338 Dr. Cash and Prof. Dunstan .
Pharmacology of In the present state of the theory , no object is to he gained pursuing these analogies further .
They serve , however , to sho directions in which further investigation is to be carried out .
It is clear that if a magnetic field is capable of orienting the ?
aggregates , then a substance composed of them will rotate the plar of polarisation of light .
" The Pharmacology of Aconitine , Diacetylaconitine , Benza conine and Aconine considered in Relation to thei Chemical Constitution .
" By J. Theodore Cash , M.D F.R.S. , and Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , F.R.S. Re ceived January 13 , \#151 ; Read February 3 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation which is described in the present paper has beei carried out with pure specimens of the alkaloids aconitine , aconint and benzaconine , the chemistry of which has been fully studied sine 1891 , by one of us in conjunction with his assistants and pupils , anc forms the subject of numerous papers which have been communicatee to the Chemical Society , and printed in the 'Journal of the Chemica Society.'* * * S As these papers contain a full account of the chemical composition and properties of the various aconite alhaloids , it will nol be necessary to do more now than summarise for reference the ehiei properties of the substances employed in this enquiry .
Aconitine is the poisonous alkaloid contained in Commercial specimens of aconitine vary considerably , many of them being mixtures .
] ; Until quite recently the pure alkaloid was not an article of commerce .
It is a crystalline base , very sparingly soluble in water , but readily dissolved by alcohol .
Its alcoholic solution is dextro-rotatory , whilst solutions of its salts are laevo-i'otatory .
S Even very dilute solutions produce a characteristic tingling and numbness on the tongue and lips .
The alkaloid suffers decomposition when heated to its melting point ; a molecular proportion of acetic acid is lost , and an alkaloid remains .
|| The hydrolysis of the alkaloid occurs in two stages .
In the first , which is best effected by heating a salt of aconitine in a closed tube with water , a molecular proportion of acetic acid is formed , and an * ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1891\#151 ; 1897 .
t Dunstan and Ince , 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1891 , vol. 59 , p. 271 ; Dunstan and Umney , ibid. , 1892 , vol. 61 , p. 385 .
x Dunstan and Carr , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1893 , vol. 63 , p. 491 .
S Dunstan and Ince , loc. cit. || Dunstan and Carr , ibid. , 1894 , vol. 65 , p. 176 .
% Dunstan and Carr , ibid. , vol. 65 , p. 290 .
Aconitine , SfC .
, in relation to their Chemical Constitution .
339 Ikaloid produced which is named the chief constituent f the picraconitine and napelline of previous observers.* * * S Further lydrolysis , by alkalis or acids , resolves benzaconine into aconino and molecular proportion of benzoic acid , and these are the final )roducts of hydrolysis .
A characteristic qualitative reaction of aconitine is the formation \gt ; f a crystalline purple precipitate of aconitine permanganate when i faintly acidified solution of an aconitine salt is mixed with a solu-ion of potassium permanganate.t Most aconitine salts crystallise veil from a solution in water , and in experiments on the physiological iction of this alkaloid an aqueous solution of the hydrobromide has seen employed .
Neither the composition nor constitution of aconitine can be regarded as settled .
In determining the exact formula by which the composition is best expressed , there is the difficulty of deciding oetween several formulae which represent the composition of the alkaloid within the limits of experimental error .
Alder WrightJ tdopted the formula C^H^NO^ as best expressing the composition , hater observers , Jurgens , J Liihbe , J and ourselves have so far accepted a formula identical with or differing but slightly from hat of Wright , as indicating the composition of aconitine and its derivatives .
Recently Freund and BeckS have proposed for aconitine the formula C^H^NOn instead of that employed by us O33R45NO12 , since they have obtained from the ultimate analysis of the pure alkaloid nearly 2 per cent , more carbon than was found by Alder Wright and his colleagues , by Jurgens , by Liibbe , or by ourselves .
The question of composition is , therefore , still unsettled and can probably only be finally decided by the analysis of simpler derivatives of aconitine than have been hitherto dealt with .
The constitution of aconitine cannot be considered until more is known of the simpler derivatives and decomposition products .
For the purposes of the present discussion it may be regarded as acetyl-benzaconine , but nothing is at present known of the constitution of aconine .
Biacetyl-aconitine is an alkaloid obtained from aconitine by acting upon it with acetyl chloride , || and differing from it in containing two acetyl groups in the place of two atoms of hydrogen .
It is a crystalline base , very sparingly soluble in water , but readily in alco* Dunstan and Harrison , ibid. , 1893 , vol. 63 , p. 443 ; Dun Man and Carr , ibid. , 1893 , vol. 63 , p. 991 ; Dunstan and Harrison , ibid. , 1894 , vol. 65 , p. 174 .
f Dunstan and Carr , ' Plmrm .
Journ. , ' 1896 , vol. 56 , p. 122 .
\#163 ; Alder Wright and Luff , 'Chem .
Soc. Journ. , ' 1877 , vol. 31 , p. 143 ; Jurgens , Inaug .
Dissert .
Dorpat , ' 1885 ; Liibbe , ibid. , 1891 .
S Freund and Beck , ' Berichte , ' 1894 , vol. 27 , p. 720 .
|| Dunstan and Carr , ' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1895 , vol. 67 , p. 459 .
-\gt ; 40 Dr. Casli and Prof. Dunstan .
of Loi .
A solution of its hydrobromide in water was used for tl determination of its physiological action .
This solution , like that \lt ; an aconitine salt , produces a persistent tingling and numbness of tl tongue and lips .
Benxaeonine , the product of the partial hydrolysis of aconitin occurs with aconitine in Aconitum , * and is the principal cor stituent of the substances named napelline and picraconitine by pn vious observers .
It was first named by ns as its percentsg composition was found to agree within the limits of experiment , error with that of aconitine.f The base is amorphous and separate from a solution in alcohol and ether as a varnish ; it dissolve sparingly in water .
Solutions of the alkaloid and of its salts ai very bitter , but do not produce the tingling of the tongue and lip which is so characteristic of aconitine .
Like aconitine , solutions c benzaconine are dextro-rotatory , whilst those of its salts are lve rotatoiy .
'When hydrolysed benzaconine furnished aconine an benzoic acid .
Although the base has not been crystallised , the salt of benzaconine crystallise easily .
For the experiments on th physiological action an aqueous solution of the liydrobromide ha been employed .
Since benzaconine differs from aconitine only ii the absence of an acetyl group , attempts have been made to re-form aconitine from benzaconine by replacing this group .
These attempt !
have , however , failed .
Benzaconine does not furnish , under tin several conditions tried , a monacetyl derivative , and the compound,1 which have been prepared containing more than one of these group-do not exhibit any of the characteristic properties of aconitine , anr would seem to be isomeric , not identical ; thus the triacetyl benzaconine is isomeric with diacetylaconitine , and tetracetylbenzaeoninc isomeric not identical with triacetylaconitine .
J Aconine is the final basic product of the hydrolysis of aconitine , with which it occurs in Aconitum nap'llus .
S It is an amorphous alkaloid readily soluble in water and in alcohol , though not in ether .
Its solutions are sweet in taste , alkaline in reaction , and dextrorotatory\#151 ; like aconitine and benzaconine , aconine salts being also Isevo-rotatory .
The salts are crystalline ; a solution of the hvdro-bromide has been used for the experiments described in this paper .
Adopting Wright 's modified formula for aconitine , the following formulae and names represent the alkaloids dealt with in the present paper .
|| * Dunstan and Umney , loc. cit. f Dunstan and Harrison , ibid.,1893 , and Dnnstan and Carr , ibid. , 1894 .
J Dunstan and Cayr , ibid. , 1895 .
S Dunstan and LTmney , ibid. , 1893 .
|| See further , Dunstan , " The Nature of Aconitine " ( 'Pharm .
Journ. , Marc o 1894 ) ; and * Collected Papers from the Research Laboratory of the Pharmaceutical Society , ' vol. 2 , 1896 .
Aconitine .
\lt ; fc .
, in relation to their Chemical Constitution .
341 Aconine , C24H39NO10 .
Benzaconine , C2iH38(C6H5CO)]S'01o .
Acetylhenzaconine ( aconitine ) , C24H37(CH3CO ) ( C6H5CO)NO10 .
Diacetylaconitine , C *4H35(CH3C 0 ) 3 ( C6H5C0 ) N 010 .
As aconitine has been so largely used by previous workers , its tion will be treated of in greater detail than will be necessary hen considering its derivatives or its allies obtained from other irieties of aconite .
The modes of action of aconitine , diacetylaconitine , benzaconine , id aconine , respectively , have been tested with regard to the llowing points:\#151 ; 1 .
Their effect upon the blood pressure , pulse , and respiration of ia ?
sthetised cats .
2 .
Their general effect , and especially their action upon temperature id respiration of rabbits , and ( occasionally ) of guinea-pigs .
3 .
Their general toxic action towards frogs with their effect in etail upon circulation , respiration , cord reflex , motility , and cutane-is sensation of these animals .
4 .
Their lethal dose towards some or all of the various animals nployed .
Whilst the scope of this paper will be limited to these alkaloids , here are many other alkaloids and derivatives closely allied to conitiine which have been under examination , and it is intended to resent a further communication concerning them with as little elay as possible .
Among them may be named pseudaconitine , the 1 haloid of A. for ox ; japaconitine , the alkaloid of or 'ischeri , as well as several derivatives of aconitine .
The following is a summary of the pharmacological action of the Ikaloids .
* Action on the Circulation .
Aconitine at first stimulates medullary centres slowing the heart , cceleration follows , auricles and ventricles taking up an irregular and at one stage of toxic action ) independent rhythm .
Imperfect systole especially in the ventricles ) develops .
Irritability of ventricular vail is much increased .
Extensive variations of blood pressure accompany the preceding phenomena .
After great ventricular acceleration with very imperfect systole , delirium of the ventricles supervenes .
The vagus ( stimulated ) continues to restrain speed of contraction especially acting upon the auricle ) , and may favour closer sequence \gt ; f ventricular upon auricular systole , so as to cause a rise in blood pressure .
For the same reason during a stage of sequence , it may tause the usual effect ( fall of pressure ) .
In slow poisoning the ardiac vagus on stimulation ceases to produce any effect .
Atropine is unfavourable to the independent rhythm of auricles and ventricles 342 Dr. Cash and Prof. Dunstan .
Pharmacology of and also to the ultimate reduction of ventricular action to incoor .
nate contraction ( delirium ) .
The vaso-motor centre is at first stimulated , bat later depress* in function , but peripheral splanchnic stimulation is active to son degree throughout poisoning .
Diacetylaconitine , whilst producing effects in the main resemblii those of aconitine , shows less tendency to cause independent rhyth of ventricles upon auricles .
In half the experiments made a failu of systole occnrred without asequence , in the remaining half a aconitine-like effect was witnessed .
The cardiac vagus is less affected than by aconitine , but the resu of its stimulation depends much upon the sequence or non-sequeni of ventricular upon auricular action present at the time .
The vaso-motor centre and peripheral vaso-constrictors respoii to this alkaloid much as they do towards aconitine , but stimulate in the early stage of action is less marked .
Benzaconine.\#151 ; After very brief pulse acceleration , slowing wit reduction of blood pressure occurs , the latter being due mainly t the depression of the motor mechanism within the heart .
After stage of irregularity , during which full diastole of both auricle and ventricles is exceptional , a blocking of auricular impulses t the ventricle succeeds , so that a rhythm of 2 to 1 is produce* ( After aconitine this state of affairs is largely reversed .
) Complei though transitory failure in the production of a spontaneous bea ( the ventricles being first involved , then the auricles ) is seen in large proportion of experiments .
This is not due to stimulation c inhibitory apparatus , which is put out of action by atropine , for th phenomenon occurs after atropine .
It is referable rather to depressio of the motor apparatus .
Contraction returns spontaneously , eithe from spontaneous revival in excitability of this apparatus , or frot stimulation of the highly venous blood .
The vaso-motor centre , though depressed in function , retains soni action , until the very low pressure is reached which invariable precedes death .
Vagus stimulation causes slowing , until in a late stage of poisoning the blood pressure remaining very low , its action fails .
Afte effective stimulation , pressure rises beyond the original level from acceleration of the heart and strengthening of the systole .
Digitaline is the most effective antagonist towards benzaconine .
Aconine is , relatively to the three compounds just considere harmless towards the heart .
At first it stimulates the vagal rooh slightly , causing a slower beat .
As , however , it strengthens the systole of the ventricle the blood-pressure rises , and is maintain a high level throughout a long experiment .
Asequence oi disoi of rhythm is not produced , but an antagonistic effect is shown Aconitine , fyc .
, in relation to their Chemical 343 vards aconitine and diacetylaconitine .
In this action , aconine ooses independent rhythm of auricles and ventricles facilitating i ) transmission of the normal impulse , and it reduces the tendency delirium of the ventricle .
Only lethal doses reduce the activity cardiac vagus terminations .
The vaso-motor centre is practically affected .
The circulation remains active in frogs for days , in entire absence reflex and respiratory movements .
Action on Respiration .
Aconitine at first stimulates the respiratory centre and the sensory gal fibres in the lung .
Depression rapidly follows , death in ammals being due to central respiratory failure .
The peripheral nervation of respiratory muscles is not interfered with .
Diacetylaconitine produces a slighter initial stimulation than aconi-ae .
Death results from central failure .
Pulmonary oedema is mmonly observed in rabbits .
Respiratory spasm occurs at death .
Renzaconine does not appear to stimulate either respiratory centres pulmonary vagus as do the two former .
The centres are depressed om the first ; respiratory failure induces death without spasm ; to is the reduced action of motor nerve endings in respiratory muscles intributes .
Aconine , whilst slowing the respiration from its action upon the aitres , possesses a pronounced curare-like action upon motor nerve idings in respiratory muscles .
No spasm attends death .
Action on the Nervous System .
Aconitine in large doses causes occasional loss of consciousness , ith failure of conjunctival reflex and dilated pupil .
This is not a irectly narcotic effect , but is secondary to reduced oxidising power of le blood from circulatory and respiratory impairment .
For a time here is evidence of stimulation of motor areas , and especially of the ledulla with its contained centres ; to this depression succeeds ; reflex entres in the cord are stimulated , and then depressed by large doses , n frogs , voluntary movement outlasts reflex .
Sensory nerves at the eriphery are depressed in function after very transitory stimulation , 'hilst motor nerves are practically unaffected .
Diacetylaconitine produces a stimulation of the medulla , but less a degree than that caused by aconitine .
The subsequent depression , specially of the respiratory centre , is well marked , the respiration 'eing relatively more affected than the circulation .
The general eflex function of the cord is depressed after preliminary excitement , i he action with refei*ence to sensory nerves is the same as that of 314 Dr. Cash and Prof. Dunstan .
Pharmacology of aconitine , but motor nerve terminations , though they are not powe fully affected , are reduced in activity by diacetylaconitine .
Benzaconine causes a lethargic and ultimately semi-narcotised ccr dition , which is referable to low intracranial blood-pressure as wt as to a direct action upon the cortex .
Whilst the medullar centres are early depressed , both direct and cross cord reflexes ai elicited in a limb excluded by vascular ligature from access of tb alkaloid .
Sensory nerves are unaffected except in deep poisonm ; On the other hand , motor nerves and their terminations are redace in function , a peculiar intermittency of response following stimuli tion .
Aconine produces in mammals loss of volition and impairment ( conjunctival reflex only shortly before a large dose proves fata Motility is interfered with , but this is mainly due to a curare-lik effect upon motor nerve endings .
The respiratory centre is depressed respiration failing when the heart still beats vigorously .
Action on Oxidation Processes .
-A.il the four alkaloids here considered reduce the oxidising powe !
of vegetable protoplasm ; aconitine being most and aconine leas active .
Diacetylaconitine is more energetic than benzaconine .
Action on Internal Temperature .
Aconitine produces a fall ( exceptionally preceded by a slight rise ) which increases as respiratory slowing develops , but the minimun is reached ( 50\#151 ; 70 ' in rabbits ) after a partial recovery of respira tion .
Exposure to a cold atmosphere increases the fall and delay ; the recovery .
Diminished oxidation produced directly and througl impairment of circulation and respiration indirectly are causal to tb\lt ; fall .
A dose of aconitine less than half the lethal proportion will causi a fall of nearly 2 ' C. below the normal .
Diacetylaconitine occasions less effect than aconitine on the tem perature when the dose bears an equal relationship to the respectivt lethal doses .
This is due to a less vigorous action on heart am respiration .
Like aconitine , it interferes both indirectly and direct !
} with oxidation .
Benzaconine produces a trifling reduction of temperature until a dose is reached which greatly reduces the pulse and speed of respira-tion when a proportionate fall occurs .
The reduction of muscular movement tends still further to limit heat production .
Proportionately to its toxic dose the effect is not so active as in the case oi diacetylaconitine .
Aconitine , iJr .
, in relation to their Chemical Constitution .
345 Aconine is inoperative towards body temperature , except in very rge doses , which enfeeble respiration and cause a curare-like action i motor nerve terminations .
Even then the effect is relatively iglxt , as the heart remains active and the vaso-constrictor system is ill in play ( lethal dose causing death ( guinea-pig ) in 60 ' reduced le temperature by 1'7 ' C. ) .
Action on Skeletal Muscle .
Aconitine does not in ordinary lethal doses materially affect irrit-bility .
capacity for work , or form of contraction of frog 's muscle .
Ixposure to the direct action of aconitine solutions causes fibrillation nd lengthening of the muscle curve ( an effect resembling slight vera-rine action has been described ) .
Fibrillation is abolished by aconine nd curare , and is therefore not attributable to the action of aconi-ine directly on muscular tissue , but to a stimulation of motor nerve ndings .
Diacetylaconitine reduces the irritability of muscular tissue , the uuscle ( after poisoning in situ ) is more readily fatigued , the curve of ontraction therefore losing in altitude whilst increasing in length .
Bevzaconine in large doses produces rapid fatigue with failure of ontractility which is , however , restored by rest .
Contact of strong ' olutions reduces excitability and capacity for work .
Aconine in doses sufficient to immobilise frogs is inoperative , larger quantities slightly reduce excitability and capacity for work , out have not the action so characteristic of benzaconine .
Lethal Doses .
The results are stated in decimals of a gram per kilo , of the body weight , and where two figures are given the lethal dose lies between them .
Cat. Rabbit .
Guinea pig .
Frog ( R. Temp. ) .
Aconitine ... .
0 -000134 0-000139 0-00012 | 0"000586 ( March ) 0 0014 ( July ) Diacetjl-aco-1 nitine . . . .
J 0 -004\#151 ; 0 -00515 i 0-0042 0-0042 0-039 Benze.conine .
, Aconine 0-0245 0-166\#151 ; 0-4 0 -0272 0-0238\#151 ; 0-0293 0-275 0-284 1055\#151 ; 1-75 General Conclusions .
It would therefore appear from our study of the pharmacology of these alkaloids , that the introduction of two additional acetyl groups into the molecule of aconitine does not create any pronounced varia346 I)r .
Cash and Prof. Dunstan .
Pharmacology of tion in the pharmacological action , but results merely in a gener weakening of the chai'acteristic action of the parent alkaloid .
Considering next the effect of removing the acetyl group fro aconitine , which is seen in the behaviour of benzaconine , we find th the characteristic features of aconitine action are almost entire annulled .
The great toxic power of aconitine has been great reduced , so that the lethal dose of benzaconine for both cold- ai warm-blooded animals is relatively so considerable as to remove from the class of poisons in the ordinary acceptance of the term .
In the action of benzaconine on the heart and circulation vei little trace of the effects of aconitine can be observed ; whilst aftt the administration of aconitine the ventricles ultimately beat mo ?
rapidly than , and often independently of , the auricles , the opposi is the case in the action of benzaconine .
On the heart , indeed , acts to some extent as the antagonist of aconitine , causing slowing especially of the ventricles , in opposition to the great acceleratio produced by aconitine , so that in a certain measure it is observe that benzaconine behaves as an antidote to aconitine poisoning though not so effectively as atropine .
This is a point of considerabl practical importance when it is remembered that benzaconine occur to a variable extent with aconine in A. napellus , from which plan the ordinary medicinal preparations are made .
The removal of the acetyl group has also abolished the stimulal ing effect of aconitine on the respiratory centres and the pulmonar vagus .
On the other hand , in its general action on the respiratio and on temperature a certain resemblance is traceable between th depressant action of benzaconine and aconitine .
Peripherally benz aconine depresses the activity of motor nerve endings and , in a less degree , of skeletal muscular tissue , whilst aconitine acts principal !
upon sensory nerve terminations .
In contrasting the action of aconine with that of benzaconine w are studying the effect of withdrawing a benzoyl group .
It ha been seen that in removing the acetyl group from aconitine w* produce an alkaloid which is no longer a virulent heart poison ; th\lt ; removal of the benzoyl or benzoic group from benzaconine furnishes aconine which is so far from being a heart poison that it may be ranked as a general cardiac tonic , and in virtue of this action a. the antagonist of aconitine .
In a much greater degree than benzaconine it is an antidote to aconitine , so much so that we have found that the administration of aconine is successful in averting w small animals the effect of a lethal dose of aconitine .
Amongst the distinctive features in the pharmacological action of aconme is to t noticed a curare-like effect on the motor nerve endings of the muscles which is not observed with either aconitine or diacetyl-aconitme .
No fault of sequence between ventricles and auricles , such as u Aconitine , #t* .
, in relation to their Chemical Constitution .
347 f served ( though in an opposite direction ) , after the administration ( aconitine and benzaconine can be observed in the action of aconine .
conine cannot be classed as a poisonous alkaloid , very large .
ses being necessary to produce death even in frogs .
The results of this inquiry , which has occupied the authors for greater part of four years , brings out in a most striking manner ti almost complete dependence of the extraordinary toxic power d. pharmacological action of the aconitine molecule on the presence the radical ( acetyl ) of acetic acid , whilst , in a lesser degree , the don of benzaconine is seen to depend on the existence in the nlecule of this alkaloid of the radical ( benzoyl ) of benzoic acid , e inertness of the a'kaloid , aconine , denuded of both the acetyl d benzoyl groups of aconitine seems to the authors to be one of .3 most interesting facts in chemical pharmacology .
From the sactical point of view the authors regard the demonstration of the fagonism of aconine and benzaconine towards aconitine as an portant result of this investigation , which , taken as a whole , it is ieved will throw into clearer light the mode of action of the realoids of Aconitum napellus .
the chemical part of this inquiry , for which one of us ( D. ) is ponsible , has been conducted at first in the Research Laboratories the Pharmaceutical Society , and afterwards in the Scientific Apartment of the Imperial Institute .
The pharmacological experi-mts have been made in the Department of Pharmacology , in the hiversity of Aberdeen .
In conclusion , we desire to acknowledge the assistance which has '3n rendered to our work by the Royal Society , which has made reral grants from the Government Fund , and we wish to express r indebtedness on the chemical side to those whose names have '3n referred to , and especially to Mr. Francis H. Carr , Salters ; search I ellow in the Laboratories of the Imperial Institute .
In conduct of the pharmacological experiments Dr. Rob , Dr. Find-\#166 ; and Dr. Arthur Lister have rendered valuable service .

