December 22 , 1853 .
THOMAS GRAHAM , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
The following papers were read:1 .
" An Inquiry into some of the circumstances and principles which regulate the production of Pictures on the Retina of the Human Eye , with their measure of endurance , their Colours and Changes .
" By the Rev. W. Scoresby , F.R.S. , Corresponding Member of the Institute of France , &amp;c. Received Nov. 19 , 1853 .
The investigations of the author embrace three distinct cases , the case of achromatic pictures ; that of coloured pictures of uncoloured objects , derived simply or mainly from the influence of light on the eye ; and that of the spectra of coloured objects , together with certain applications of the results obtained to other optical characteristics , determinations or phenomena .
The general mode of experiment employed in these researches is described as " the viewing of illuminated objects with a steady fixed gaze at a special point , and then determining the impression on the retina by examining the images developed with closed eyes .
" The time of viewing the objects varied from a momentary glance up to half a minute , more rarely to a minute ; and the mode of eliciting the impression was , primarily , by closing the eyelids into gentlest contact , whilst the head was kept unmoved , and the eyelids steady in their original direction .
Thus performed , the experiment becomes very simple and manageable , and the results , various as they are in colour or depth of tint , are almost unfailingly elicited and often curious or beautiful .
Whilst the general result of viewing an illuminated object-is the production of a clearly-defined picture on the retina , appearing in certain cases instantly , or more commonly , from 3 to 5 seconds after the eyes are closed , the nature or quality of the picture , with its degree of endurance and changes , is found to present , under differences in the circumstances , an almost endless variety .
7T'hus the results , it was found , might be varied by differences in the time of gazing on the object ; by differences in the intensity of the external light , and by thepartial or total exclusion of the.light of the room from the eyelids ; by alterations in the degree of compression of the eyelids ; by the movement of the eyeballs during the time of observing the picture ; as also by variations in the normal state of the eyes on commencing the experiments .
All these .
influencing circumstances had been made successively , or sometimes combinedly , the subjects of special investigation by the author ; and ultimately , in most respects , he considered , so far as his own eyes might be deemed to yield general phenomena , with satisfactory or conclusive results .
Various experiments had been made on the spectra derived from light reflected from opake objects in comparison with those elicited by light transmitted by transparent substances , both white and coloured ; as also on the differences in the measure of endurance , the variety of their repetitions , and the phenomena of their changes in colour , of the pictures photographed within the eye , under curiously modified conditions .
The present communication , however , comprises only a part of these investigations , the first of the cases referred to at the outset , viz. inquiries respecting colourless pictures on the retina , derived from the viewing of objec ' s under low or moderate degrees of light , or of pictures observed irrespective of chromatic effects .
1 .
As to the effect of Time in the viewing of an illuminated object , on the nature and permanency of the picture produced , it was found that , in favourable states of the eyes , a mere momentary glance ( such as of a window viewed from the back of a room ) was sufficient for producing a distinct negative picture of the illuminated aperture , with the cross bars of the window-frame , which , under certain changes , could be seen ordinarily for about 20 seconds , and under strong light , sometimes for an interval of a minute or two of time , if not more .
But the impression from a continuous viewing of a window rather strongly illuminated , for a period of a minute , was very remarkable , the image remaining on the retina whilst the experimenter was breakfasting , and also engaged in writing , so as to be distinctly seen , on slightly closing the eyes , an hour afterwards , and , in another case which he particularly describes , after a lapse of 80 minutes .
2 .
Experiments on the effects of quantity or intensify of light , on the visual spectra derived from uncoloured objects , showed that such spectra were yielded by extremely low degrees of illumination .
The light , for instance , of the moon or stars thrown on a white linen blind , produced distinct negative pictures of the slightly illuminated aperture .
Candlelight gave also negative pictures of white and black objects .
Low illumination from transmitted solar light gave , in most cases , colourless pictures , appearing sometimes immediately on closing the eyes , as by a flash of light , or otherwise in 3 to 5 seconds in negative tints ; these pictures , where the-object had been viewed for some seconds , were found to fade away and subsequently reappear in less dark shades , sometimes with several such changes .
3 .
The changes in the optical spectra from the partial or entire exclusion of light from the closed eyelids were .
found to be very striking .
No matter how this diminution or exclusion of light was effected , -whether by the thickening of the eyelids by compression , or turning the face away from the light , or interposing the hand or other opake substance betwixt the eyes and the light , or covering the face altogether , the spectra assumed a new character as to light and shadow , ordinarily , but not in all cases , complementary to the tints originally observed .
A total exclusion of the external light still left the picture clear and distinct , with a continuance , after occasional changes , little differing from that of other experiments .
4 .
This measure of fixidity of the spectra impressed on the retina led the author to some curious results:in obtaining duplicate or multiple pictures of the same object .
Thus , by gazing at a window , successively at different fixed points previously determined on , he multiplied the cross bars so as to produce a picture of a window with twice or quadruple the number of panes .
A white statuette , viewed at different points in succession , whilst strongly illuminated , enabled the author to obtain double pictures in black or grey , associated according to the relation of the points gazed at , in unlimited variety .
Or viewing the statuette from two positions differing in distance , he obtained images of different dimensions .
Double images , too , were obtained by using the eyes separately ; and also by looking at an object nearer to the eyes than the statuette , so that the lines of the axes might diverge at the distance of the statuette , thus beautifully elucidating one of the chief causes of the indistinctness of vision as to objects nearer to , or more remote from the eyes than that directly contemplated .
5 .
Complete pictures were also obtained by the combination of parts separately viewed , whilst various impressions , however incongruous , were combined into one picture .
Thus parts of the statuette were viewed , under the adoption of a moveable screen , so as either to combine the separately-viewed portions rightly , or to transfer one part , such as the head , to either shoulder , or to adjust two heads in different positions .
Separate impressions , also , of segments of the statuette were taken on the eyes singly , and these combined , accordingly as the same or different points of view were selected , into perfect or distorted pictures .
The appearance of the parts of the resulting spectrum , however , were not always synchronous portions , sometimes appearing and disappearing by separate or partial changes , like the effect of the dissolving views of the magic lantern .
6 .
Pictures , diagrams , printing , &amp;c. , were found , under due influence of light , to yield cognizable and sometimes vivid impressions on the retina .
Diagrams in black and white , or chequered surfaces like that of a chess-board , gave very distinct pictures , always negative , the squares coming successively into view , beginning with the portion gazed at .
The succession of changes , when the impression was strong , in this experiment was not a little curious , the perfect image of the Chess-board after bursting .
into view , -gradually fading altogether away , and then reviving , in less strong tints , in a series of repetitions. .
; .
: -Another curious , though anticipated result , the author also describes under this section , the determination , by viewing the ocular spectra , of portions of diagrams or elements in pictorial or-typographical surfaces , which had not been noticed in the act of gazing .
Thus , particularly on viewing a line of printed figures at a particular point , without noticing those on either side , a considerable series , right and left , were so plainly depicted on the visual organ as to be easily known ; whilst , in like manner , a point in a line of a printed placard being gazed at , the lines above and below came into view on closing the eyes , and could frequently be read , Of certain general facts elicited by this first series ofinvestigations , the author notices , that in viewing impressions on the retina with closed eyes , all the pictures appear to occupy a position external , similar to the effect when the objects are : directly seen ; that the spectra derived from moderate or strong degrees of transmitted light have prevalently the character of transparency , and those from very low degrees , most ordinarily , of opacity ; that although many of the spectral phenomena the author had.observed were well known to be capable of elicitation in the ordinary form of the experiment with the eyes open , yet the series of phenomena , as a whole could not be so elicited , nor was it possible by such form of experiment to analyse and compare the phenomena whilst in progress of change , which , in the form he had adopted , were usually exhibited as plainly as if the spectra were the real and immediate effects of ordinary direct vision ; and that such is the precision and such the certainty with which the pictures are ordinarily developed , after duly viewing any illuminated object , that the expected result , so far as the eliciting of definite pictures is concerned , hardly ever fails .

