An Account of the ReT-measurement of the Cube , Cylinder , and Sphere , used by the late Sir George Shuckburgh Evelyn , in his Inquiries respecting a Standard of Weights and Measures .
By Captain Henry Kater , F.R.S. Read June 7 , 1821 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1821 , p. 316 .
] The experiments above adverted to are detailed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1798 ; and though the greatest attention was bestowed on those parts of the inquiry relating to the weight of the solids , the method of measuring them is not so fully detailed ; Captain Kater , therefore , was desirous of re-investigating the latter subject before the Commissioners of Weights and Measures should make their final report .
The author then proceeds to describe the state of the apparatus ; and the means which he adopted in effecting this measurement of three sides of the cube gives for its content 124-1969 inches .
The length of the cylinder deduced from these means is =5'9960 inches .
In measuring the sphere , a brass square was originally employed , the side of which was a little longer than the diameter .
The splhere being properly placed and supported within the square , a micrometer screw which passed through one of the sides of the square was brought in contact with the diameter of the sphere , and the reading of the micrometer head noted ; the sphere being then removed , a brass rule of known length was put into its place , and the micrometer screw being brought in contact with the end of the rule , the difference between its length and the diameter of the sphere was obtained , from which the latter was determined .
Captain Kater details at length the repetition of Sir George 's measurements , where it appears that the excess of the diameter of the sphere above the length of the rule gives 0'0012281 inch .
lThe author then proceeded to measure the brass rule , the length of which was found equal to 6 0063609 inches ; and the diameter of the sphere thence deduced gave 113'5264 inches for its solid content .
Captain Kater concludes this paper with a table , showing the data furnished by Sir George Shuckburgh Evelyn 's experiments and his own measurements ; from which it appears that the weight of a cubic inch of distilled water , in a vacuum of 62 ?
, = 252888 grains of Sir George 's standard , or = 252*722 grains of the parliamentary standard .

