454 On Liquefied Hydrides as Conducting Solvents .
[ Apr. 26 , " On the Liquefied Hydrides of Phosphorus , Sulphur , and the ; Halogens , as Conducting Solvents.\#151 ; Part II .
" By E. H. Archibald and I ) .
McIntosh .
Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 26 , \#151 ; Read May 19 1904 .
In continuation of the preceding investigation , '* a very large number of substances have been examined with regard to their solubility in the four substances\#151 ; hydrogen chloride , bromide , iodide , and sulphide .
The following is a brief summary of the results which have been so far obtained :\#151 ; .
No salt of the metals has been found to dissolve in more than traces in either solvent , and in no case was it certain that such substances dissolved at all .
We cannot , therefore , confirm the observation of Helbig and Fausti , f who state that stannic chloride dissolves in liquid hydrogen chloride , but does not form a conducting solution .
On the other hand , many organic substances were found to be readily soluble ; as for example , the amine salts , acid amides , and certain alkaloids among compounds containing nitrogen ; and alcohols , ethers , ketones , phenols , and some organic acids and esters among compounds containing oxygen .
In every case where a conducting solution was formed the dissolved substance was one containing an element the valence of which might be increased , thus dyad oxygen or sulphur becoming tetrad , or triad nitrogen becoming pentad .
The conductivity of a large number of solutions was measured , and in all cases the molecular conductivity increased enormously with concentration .
No case has been met with in which the molecular conductivity varies in the same way as in aqueous solutions .
The substances rarely conduct better than w/ 25 KC1 .
A few of the measurements are given in the following table , in which the concentration C is given in gramme molecules per litre , and the conductivity in reciprocal ohms x 10~y .
Substance .
Solvent .
C. Conductivity .
Acetamide .
HBr 0-011 65-2 55 - 55 0-713 3155-0 Acetonitrile .
HC1 0-0463 1512-0 55 ' 55 1-232 9636-0 Ethyl oxide .
HI o-io 19-5 55 .
55 1-14 2208-0 Triethyl ammonium chloride. . .
h2s 0-014 117-0 5 5 5 5 ' 55 0-401 1580-0 # Ante , p. 450 .
f ' Zeifc .
fiir Augewanclte Cliemie/ vol. 17 , 1904 .
' 1904 .
] On the Lymphatic Glands Sleeping Sickness .
455 A large number of temperature coefficients have been measured .
8 These were found to be in the majority of cases positive , the : conductivities increase with rise of temperature .
11 All the experiments which have been hitherto carried out lead to , tpe conclusion that it is the dissolved substances ( i.e. , the acetamide , etc. ) ; which carries the current and not the halogen hydride .
In other words , j we are dealing with solutions in which the organic and not the inorganic { substance undergoes electrolytic dissociation .
_ Further experiments are at present in progress , having foi then object the measurement of the molecular weight of the dissolved substances ( McIntosh and Archibald ) and the determination of the I transport numbers ( Steele ) .
_ i Discussion of the results so far obtained is deferred until these ! .
experiments are completed .
" Note on the Lymphatic Glands in Sleeping Sickness."^ By Captain E. D. AM .
Greig , I.M.S. , and Lieutenant A. C. H. Gray , R.A.M.C. Communicated by Colonel Bruce , E.B.S. , at the desire of the Sleeping Sickness Commission .
Received and Read May 5 , 1904 .
Captain Greig , in a letter dated March 17 , 1904 , writes that following a suggestion of Dr. Mott , they have examined the contents of lymphatic glands during life from fifteen sleeping-sickness patients .
In all of them actively motile trypanosomes were very readily found in cover-glass preparations taken from the cervical glands .
They also present in other glands such as the femoral , but weie not neailj ' [ so numerous .
They found the trypanosomes to be far more numerous m the glands than in the blood or cerebro-spinal fluid , and believ e that the examination of fluid removed from lymphatic glands will pio'se to be a much more rapid and satisfactory method of diagnosing eail } casts of sleeping sickness than the examination of the blood .
At first the glands were excised , but this was soon found to be I unnecessary , as it is easy to puncture a superficial gland with a hypodermic syringe and suck up some of the juice into the needle and blow this out on a slide .
The actively moving trypanosomes were readily found after a short search in these slides , when a prolonged search in similar preparations of the blood from the finger failed to discover them .
In stained specimens , in addition to well-formed trypanosomes , there exist many broken-down remains , which suggests that a destrue-| tion of the trypanosomes takes place in the glands .

