168 On a new Relation between Heat and Electricity .
[ Feb. 13 , II .
" On a new Relation between Heat and Electricity .
" By Frederick Guthrie .
Received January 10 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) It is found that the reaction between an electrified body and a neighbouring neutral one , whereby the electricity in the neutral body is inductively decomposed and attraction produced , undergoes a modification when the neutral body is considerably heated .
Under many circumstances it is found that the electrified body is rapidly and completely discharged .
The action of discharge is shown to depend mainly upon the following conditions :\#151 ; ( 1 ) the temperature of the discharging body and its distance from the electrified one ; ( 2 ) the nature ( + or \#151 ; ) of the latter 's electricity .
With egard to ( 1 ) , it is shown that the discharging power of a hot body diminishes as its distance increases , and increases with its temperature ; but , concerning the temperature , it is proved that the discharging power of a hot body does not depend upon the quantity of heat radiated from it to the electrified body , but chiefly upon its quality .
Thus a white-hot platinum wire connected with the earth may exercise an indefinitely greater discharging power , at the same distance , than a large mass of iron at 100 ' 0 .
, though the latter may impart more heat to the electrified body .
Neither the mere reception of heat , however intense , by the electrified body , unless the latter have such small capacity as to be itself intensely heated , discharges the electricity if the source of heat be distant ; nor is discharge effected when the electrified body and a neighbouring cold one are surrounded by air through which intense heat is passing .
But , for the discharge , it is necessary that heat of intensity pass to the electrified body from a neutral body , within inductive range .
White- and red-hot metallic neutral bodies exercise this discharging power even when isolated from the earth , but always with less facility than when earth-connected .
The hotter the discharging body , whether isolated or earth-connected , the more nearly alike do + or \#151 ; electricities behave in being discharged ; but at certain temperatures distinct differences are noticed .
The electricity , in all cases of difference , is discharged with greater facility than the -|- .
Attempts are made to measure the critical temperatures at which earth-connected hot iron ( 1 ) discharges + and \#151 ; electricity with nearly the same facility , ( 2 ) begins , as it cools , to show a preferential power of discharging \#151 ; , and ( 3 ) ceases to discharge \#151 ; .
The temperatures so obtained are measured by the number of heat-units , measured from 0 ' 0 .
, in 1 gram of iron of the respective temperature , represented by the value of the expression Fe h^u .
1873 .
] On the Land-Planarians of Ceylon .
169 It is shown that various flames , both earth-connected and isolated , have an exceedingly great power of discharging both kinds of electricity .
The effects in regard to discharge are shown to be similar when platinum wire , rendered hot by a galvanic current , is used , and also when the condensed electricity of a Leyden jar is experimented on .
As hot iron shows a preferential power of discharging \#151 ; over + electricity , so it is found that white-hot but isolated iron refuses to be charged either with -)- or \#151 ; electricity .
As the iron cools , it acquires first the power of receiving \#151 ; and afterwards of receiving + .
Further , while white-hot iron in contact with an electrified body prevents that body from retaining a charge of either kind of electricity , as it cools it permits a + charge to be received , and subsequently a one .
A suggestion is made as to the existence of an electrical coex citiv e force , the presence of which together with its diminution by heat would explain much of what has been described .
February 20 , 1873 .
Rear-Admiral RICHARDS , C.B. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read :\#151 ; I. \lt ; eOn the Anatomy and Histology of the Land-Planarians of Ceylon , with some Account of their Habits , and a Description of two new Species , and with Notes on the Anatomy of some European Aquatic Species/ " By H. N. Moseley , M.A. , Exeter College , Oxford .
Communicated by G. Rolleston , M.D. , Linacre Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the University of Oxford .
Received January 16 , 1873 .
( Abstract .
) The writer commences by expressing his great obligations to Professor Rolleston , whose pupil he formerly was .
Professor Rolleston first informed him of the existence of Land-Planarians in Ceylon , and of the importance of investigating them .
The paper was at first intended to be a joint one , and Professor Rolleston himself made a number of preparations of Rhynchodemus , one of which is figured .
He likewise rendered great aid in the bibliography , and by constant suggestions and assistance during the progress of the work .
Two new species of Land-Planarians from Ceylon are described , \#151 ; one belonging to the genus Bipalium ( Stimpson ) , Ceres , the other to that of Rhynchodemus , R. Thwaitesii , so called after Mr. G. H. K. Thwaites , P.R.S. , the illustrious curator of the Peradeniya Gardens , by whose assistance the specimens made use of were procured .

