406 Magnetic Declination .
[ June 16 , XIII .
" Note on a Comparison of the Diurnal Ranges of Magnetic Declination at Toronto and Kew .
" By Balfour Stewart , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and William Dodgson .
Received June 9 , 1881 .
Through the kindness of the Science and Art Department , South Kensington , and of Mr. Carpmael , Director of the Toronto Observatory , we have received daily values ( excluding Sundays ) of the diurnal range of magnetic declination at Toronto .
These observations extend from 1856 to 1879 inclusive , thus forming a series of twenty-four years .
Each number is the difference in scale divisions of the declinometer between the greatest eastern and greatest western deflection of the declination magnet on each day , as observed at the hours 6 A.M. , 8 A.M. , 2 p.m. , 4 p.m. , 10 P.M. , and midnight , of Toronto mean time , one scale division of the instrument being equal to 0 , ,72 nearly .
It is probable that such differences represent very nearly the true diurnal range .
Disturbances appear to be violent at Toronto , and we have rejected a few of the most disturbed observations , embracing those which denote ranges above forty scale divisions , or 28'*8 .
In all 107 observations were thus rejected in the series of twenty-four years .
Although this rejection has been made , it must not be supposed that the remainder are entirely undisturbed , but are only freed from the excessive influence of a few violent disturbances .
We have reduced in the meantime the sixteen years extending from 1858 to 1873 , in order to compare them with a similar series of the Kew diurnal declination ranges , including disturbances .
The method of reduction has been precisely that adopted for the Kew series , and already described by us ( see " Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , " No. 20 , 1879 , p. 313 ) .
Our object was to see whether there is any difference in phase between the various Toronto and Kew inequalties , and for this purpose we have adopted precisely the method formerly pursued by us when comparing together the declination ranges at Kew and Prague ( see " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 29 , p. 316 ) .
We have thus obtained the following result:\#151 ; Table 1.\#151 ; Algebraic sum of Toronto and Kew Magnetic Inequalities .
Toronto and Kew ( Toronto 1 division to left ) = 154514 .
" ( together ) =161094 .
, , ( Toronto 1 division to right ) = 165016 .
" " 2 " =165418 .
" " 3 " =161404 , " 4 " =154320 .
On the Absorption of Gases by Solids .
407 It would appear from this table that the phases of the various magnetic inequalities occur at Toronto nearly two days ( more strictly 1-6 days ) before the advent of the corresponding phases at Kew .
The result already obtained for Kew and Prague shows that the phases of magnetic inequalities occur at Kew nearly one day ( more strictly 07 day ) before the advent of the corresponding phases at Prague .
Thus the two results agree together in representing a progress of magnetic weather from west to east , and agree also with a result obtained by Balfour Stewart and Morisabro Hiraoka ( see " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 28 , p. 288 ) , showing that magnetic weather changes occur at Trevandrum , in India , 97 days later than at Kew .
It ought , however , to be borne in mind that in the intercomparison of Toronto , Kew , and Prague , the observations include disturbances , while in the intercomparison of Kew and Trevandrum the undisturbed observations at Kew are compared with the whole body of observations at Trevandrum , this latter being a tropical station in which the effect of disturbance is extremely small .
XIY .
" On the Absorption of Oases by Solids .
" By J. B. Hannay , F.R.S.E. , F.C.S. Communicated by Professor G. G. Stokes , D.C.L. , \amp ; c. , Sec. R.S. Received June 4 , 1881 .
During the progress of the investigations which I have from time to time had the honour of bringing under the notice of the Royal Society , I have again and again noticed the apparent disappearance of gases enclosed in vessels of various materials when the disappearance could not be accounted for upon the assumption of ordinary leakage .
After a careful examination of the subject I found that the solids absorbed or dissolved the gases , giving rise to a striking example of the fixation of a gas in a solid without chemical action .
In carrying out that most troublesome investigation , the crystalline separation of carbon from its compounds , the tubes used for experiment have been in nine cases out of ten found to be empty on opening them , and in most cases a careful testing by hydraulic press showed no leakage .
The gases seemed to go through the solid iron , although it was 2 inches thick .
A series of experiments with various linings were tried .
The tube was electro-plated with copper , silver , and gold , but with no greater success .
Siliceous linings were tried fusible enamels and glass\#151 ; but still the ' tubes refused to hold the contents .
Out of thirty-four experiments made since my last results were published , only four contained any liquid or condensed gaseous matter after the fumacing .
I became convinced that the solid matter at the very high pressure and temperature used must be pervious to gases .

