-Phil.7rans .
MDCCCIX ?
.lPate X. 6c in 'K i o &lt; H &lt; &gt; '* ji u1 i:~~~~~ &gt; 6 3 ; t. , X'2 X '2 : .
- ... ~ .
~-e k sJ 100~~~~~~~~~~~0 1 -f.1 14 ''2 ' .
- ' &gt; 9 -1 '2 ' " 22 K " 7 '2 '2 it 32 '+0 &lt; 4 23 &gt; 2 , '2 &gt; 2 Sr 11 ' 200 / 722/ 71222 kVs7 20 !
&gt; 22 &gt; 222/ 0 ' 00 '21/ 379 t0 ' S 12 / " 6 '2 22 22 3 12 3 ' 22 2122 * 9 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 c -c-T777 7 ----K &gt; ; 1'-2 o -53 a ' 4§§ s3 '0 cy &lt; 0 0-r a yK 24 rAZ } ---Ar- ' &lt; S &lt; N U N,2 &lt; 0 02 cAr N -K AK &lt; 0 0 % &lt; 00 &lt; 0 K &lt; 0K '-K &lt; 0 N ' rK KIz U~ PU K5 a : *^ ; K K~ II &lt; 0 I'l U3 / \X ' ?
1 On the Structure and Development of the Cysticercus cellulose , as found in the Muscles of the Pig .
By GEORGE RAINEY , M.R.C.S. , Lecturer on Anatomy and Demonstrator of Practical and Microscopical Anatomy at St. Thomas 's Hospital .
Communicated by R. D. THoMsoN , fM .
D. , F.R.S. Received January 16* , -Read March 19 , 1857 .
I AM aware that this parasite has been found in various other animals besides the Pig , also that it occasionally infests the human subject , but as I have not had the opportunity of examining it in the latter , and as , my opportunities of investigating its structure and development in the former have been very abundant , I shall confine my observations to this entozoon as it occurs in the Pig .
The Cysticercus in its developed state is found chiefly in the ordinary muscles lodged in the cellular intervals between the fibres , also on the surface of the muscles immediately beneath their fascial investment .
These parasites infest the heart in as great abundance as other muscles composed of striped fibres , where they are situated , some in the substance of the walls of the auricles and ventricles , others directly beneath the pericardium between it and the muscular fibres , and others just under the endocardium .
They occur also in the muscular coat of the oesophagus , almost as low down as the stomach .
But as in the Pig the striped fibres extend nearly to the inferior extremity of this tube , the presence of Cysticerci there forms no exception to their usual position in muscles composed of striped fibres .
I found but very few in the lower part of this tube , and as yet I have not met with them in the muscular coat of the intestines , in that of the large vessels close to the heart , in any of the glandular organs , nor in any of the structures of the lungs .
However , in one pig , very much infested with them , I found one Cysticercus under the mucous membrane of the larynx , also one behind the peritoneum near to the kidney .
As these appear to be probably only accidental cases , I am inclined to regard the striped muscles as the true seat of this species of Cysticercus .
This Cysticercus , when sufficiently developed to be apparent without the aid of the microscope , is seen to consist of an oval cyst , about half an inch in length , having a white globular body in its centre ; but if the muscle in which these animalcules are contained has been exposed for a few hours to the air , the white bodies will be the only part very distinctly visible ; the cysts in this case having become collapsed from the evaporation of their fluid .
If , however , the muscle be put into water for a short time , the cysts will become redistended , and rendered as apparent as before .
As often as The observations described in this paper were originally communicated to the Royal Society on the 27th of June , 1855 .
See Proceedings of the Royal Society for December 13 , 1855 .
these cysts lose their fluid by exposure , they can be redistended by a fresh application of moisture , even after they have been deprived of life , showing that this property of imbibition of fluid is obviously due to physical causes .
These entozoa vary very much in size , according to their various stages of development ; but the relative dimensions of the white opaque portion and the transparent sac differ most in those individuals which may be considered to have attained the adult state .
Wherever they occur they are contained in sacs formed by the condensation of the surrounding tissues , whose strength and completeness vary in proportion to the closeness of the muscular fibres between which the cysts are found ; hence in the substance of the muscular walls of the uula aventricles of the heart , these adventitious sacs are strong and well-defined , whilst they are thin and sometimes indistinct where the muscular fibres are less closely connected together , or when the Cysticeri are situated between a muscle and its fascia ; however , in all situations they can be easily distinguished by the microscope from the true cyst of the animalcule , their structure being very dissimilar .
If the adult Cysticercus be subjected to slight pressure , the opaque globular-looking portion , which was so coiled up within the oval cyst as to form a spiral of about a turn and a half , will be made to protrude , and then thehe animal will present a form which will admit of an anatomical division into two parts ; namely , a ventral portion and a neck , which is the usual mode of dividing this entozoon .
See Plate X. fig. 1 .
The ventral part is in the form of an oval cyst , about half an inch in its long diameter .
It is composed of an extremely thin membrane , rendered uneven on its external surface by minute rounded projections , and its internal presents a granular appearance , as if covered with coarsely-pounded glass .
It is furnished with no visible external opening , and is of the same structure everywhere , excepting where it is connected with the neck .
Its cavity contains fluid in which there is amorphous granular matter , and some highly refractive particles having an oily aspect , also occasionally minute earthy particles which effervesce in acid .
No fibres of any k ind can bse in this membrane , either in its natural state or when acted upon by acetic acid .
A is part of the Cysticercbs is formed first , and exists as a perfect membranous sac some time prior to the addition and development of the neck , there can be but little doubt , this is the part in the perfect animalculQ in which the function of nutrition is chiefly performed , and therefore that it is entitled , as well in a physiological as in an anatomical sense , to the appellation of ventral portion .
The neck is a tubular projection from the middle of the ventral portion ; its form is somewhat pyramidal , and at its free extremity it presents a quadrilateral enlargement , whose terminal surface is occupied by four circular discs and a ring of hooklets .
See Plate X. fig. Ib and fig. 2 .
Its length varies very much in different Cysticerci according to their age , this part continuing to increase in size after the other parts have acquired certain fixed dimensions .
The membranous parietes of the neck are of considerable strength and thickness , and present two orders of fibres , namely , a longitudinal or superficial set , and a transverse or deep one .
These are connected by a transparent material which composes the chief thickness of the membrane , which is deeply wrinkled transversely , and thus formed internally into a number of transverse sacculi .
The cavity of the neck does not communicate directly by any visible opening with that of the ventral portion .
It is almost completely filled with oval laminated particles of earthy matter resembling minute calculi ( see Plate X. fig. 3 ) , which effervesce briskly when put into diluted muriatic acid , but which leave a residue of animal matter after all the earthy salt has been dissolved .
These bodies begin to be formed as soon as the neck appears , and continue to increase in number as it increases in size .
The probable office of bodies so purely mechanical in their form and simple in their composition , is most likely one which is purely mechanical also .
Perhaps by giving a degree of solidity to the neck , they enable the circular and longitudinal fibres entering into its composition , to effect its protrusion from the ventral cavity , and thus serve as an example of a very low type of an internal skeleton .
The terminal surface of the neck is of a quadrangular form , each angle being occupied by a circular disc or sucker , and its centre contains an apparatus of hooklets ( see Plate X. fig. 2 ) , and thus the four suckers and hooklets are all situated nearly upon the same plane , a position which would be advantageous for the employment of these organs when the animals are transferred from their deeply-seated and confined position between the muscular fibres to the free surface of a mucous membrane .
The suckers are of a circular figure , with a diameter of about qoth of an inch .
See Plate X. fig. 4 .
Each consists of two or three membranous folds , placed at different depths from the surface , of about three-fourths of a circle in extent , so that the passage through a sucker from the external surface to the interior of the neck is rendered rather tortuous , and inclining to a spiral .
The external opening of this passage varies very much in different Cysticerci , both in size and shape ; but it is always smaller than the internal one .
It is difficult , if not impossible , to demonstrate by the microscope alone , the existence of a passage through a sucker ; however , this fact admits of proof from the circumstance of the carbonic acid , which is evolved in the cavity of the neck during the decomposition of the calcareous bodies , when these animalcules are in acetic acid , being seen under the microscope to pass freely through the openings in the suckers .
In the membranous folds of the suckers , both circular and radiating fibres are distinctly visible , resembling in their general characters those in the neck , already mentioned .
See Plate X. fig. 4 .
The hooklets , as before observed , are situated in a circle around the centre of the square space before described .
See Plate X. figs. 2 and 5 .
They are generally twenty-six in number , thirteen long and as many short , arranged alternately , a long and a short one .
Occasionally , but very rarely , there are more : I have seen as many as twenty-nine .
The longer hooklets are about.-10th of an inch in length , the shorter ones are a little less .
Each consists of a curved part resembling a bird 's claw , and a straight part or handle ; and at the junction of these two parts there are rounded processes or tubercles , two in the short hooklets , and only one in the long ones , an anatomical mark by which the two kinds can be easily distinguished .
See Plate X. figs. 6b and 6 c. They are composed of a very highly refractive , dense , and perfectly homogeneous substance possessed of a slight degree of elasticity , and not acted upon by acetic acid .
In the curved portion there is a cavity filled with a fibrous material , the other parts are perfectly solid .
They are placed ( see Plate X. fig. 5 ) , like the radii of a circle , with the extremities of their handles turned towards its centre , which corresponds to the centre of the quadrangular area on which they are situated , and their handles not meeting at this point circumscribe a small circular space , which , if perforated , would correspond to the mouth of the animalcule ; but at this part there is no opening .
The membrane is simply depressed , so as to present a conical hollow .
By pressure upon the neck , this part can be made to protrude in the form of a tongue-like process .
The handles of the hooklets are connected with this process , so that when it moves they must move with it .
See Plate X. fig. 7 a. Besides the radiating fibres which connect the handles of the hooklets to the membrane just described , there are other fibres which occupy the spaces between their curved portions .
These have an arched form with their concavity turned towards the hooklets , into which they seem to be inserted .
See Plate X. fig. 5 e. There are also two zones of circular fibres ; one is placed over the curved portion of the hooklets , and the other over their handles .
Between these zones there is a circular interval which contains the tubercles of the hooklets .
See Plate X. figs. 5b and 5 c. These fibres lie close to the hooklets , but in what manner they are attached to them , or whether they are inserted into them or not , I am unable to determine .
Although these fibres are sufficiently distinct in the well-developed Cysticercus to leave no doubt of their presence , yet their morphological characters are not sufficiently defined to indicate their precise nature .
However , their connexion with organs which are obviously intended to perform a mechanical office , and which would be useless unless they admitted of a certain amount of motion , furnishes a high degree of physiological evidence , that if all these fibres are not muscular , at least a part of them is .
The Development of the Cysticercus cellulosae .
The earliest indication of this species of Cysticercus , which admits of certain recognition as a form of cystic entozoon , is the presence of a collection of reniform corpuscles of about -2666th of an inch in length and 8so-ith in breadth , mixed with very minute , highly refractive molecules of different sizes in the substance of a primary fasciculus of a muscular fibre , or between its sarcolemma and the sarcous elements .
See Plate X. fig. 11 .
Though such a collection of corpuscles has a moderately definite shape , being somewhat fusiform , yet it has not a complete investment .
It soon , however , acquires a very distinct membranous covering , which is first apparent about its middle , and afterwards at its extremities .
Its dimensions in this stage of its formation may be about T-0th of an inch in length and --th in breadth , but these are bt ey no means regular .
The external investment at first appears only as a bright line of homogeneous substance , best 114 CELLULOS &amp; E , AS FOUND IN THE MUSCLES OF THE PIG .
115 defined on the side next the sarcous matter .
It soon , however , increases in thickness , and afterwards becomes converted into short fibres , which increase in size and distinctness as the animalcule grows larger .
These fibres are peculiar ; there is nothing that I am acquainted with analogous to them .
They have not the sharp and well-defined outline of true cilia , nor are they pointed like setae , or curled like cirri .
They have somewhat the nature of white fibrous tissue , their distinctness being impaired by acetic acid .
They are of different lengths in the same entozoon , and generally longer , though not thicker , in the large than in the small ones .
Their length averages about ~a-jo-th of an inch .
The most remarkable circumstance connected with them is the great uniformity of their arrangement in different Cysticerci .
See Plate X. figs. 12 and 13 .
They cover the whole of the outer surface of the investing membrane , and on opposite sides of the same entozoon , their form , size , and direction are similar , so that the two halves taken longitudinally are in this respect symmetrical .
If the direction of these fibres be examined about midway between the two extremities of one of these animalcules , they will be seen to project from the surface at right angles with the axis of its body ; but if traced each way from this point they will be observed gradually to incline to this axis at an angle which keeps diminishing as they approach the two extremities , so that the fibres nearest to the two ends almost coincide in their direction with that of the axis , and thus correspond in their situation to the barbs situated on each side of the extremity of an ordinary feather .
See Plate X. figs. 12 and 13 .
As the first position of these animals is in the very substance of a primary muscular fasciculus ( see Plate X. fig. 14 ) , it is obvious that the mechanical action of this apparatus will be to aid their longitudinal development whilst new cells are in progress of formation in their interior .
For it is scarcely possible that the muscular fibrillae by which they are surrounded , can , when in action , fail by their friction to urge the two extremities onwards in opposite directions , whilst at the same time the fibres by which these entozoa are covered are in consequence of their direction preventing the separated ends froit regaining their former position , and thus the two ends being always carried in opposite directions without the possibility of a counter movement , a general elongation must ensue .
This apparatus also , by splitting up the primary fasciculi , will serve a locomotive purpose , and thus enable these animals to reach the cellular intervals between the muscular fibres , where their further development will be completed .
That such is the effect of the fibres in question is evident on a careful inspection of some of the fasciculi in which these animalcules are contained , in which a separation of the fibrille can be seen to have been produced by the pointed ends of the entozoon ; these fibrillae having been obviously turned out of their original course , and some directed to one side and some to the other .
This explanation receives confirmation from the fact of those Cysticerci which are developed in the muscular parietes of the heart being of a different shape from those formed elsewhere , although their structure in all other respects is precisely the same .
These Cysticerci , in the first or vermicular stage of their develop .
meant , are very short and thick , and of an oval shape .
Their locomotive fibres , though perfectly demonstrable , are very short , and in many instances imperfect .
See Plate X. fig. 15 .
This difference might have been anticipated , considering the close texture of the muscular fibres of the heart , the absence of any well-formed sarcolemma , and the shortness of the fibres occasioned by their frequent interlacement , all which circumstances would materially tend to diminish the effect of , as well as the necessity for , the fibres which cover the surface of the entozoa , and therefore be unfavourable to their longitudinal development .
After these Cysticeri have reached thei spaces between the muscular fibres , their subsequent development is the same as in other situations , and the perfect animals formed in the heart cannot be distinguished from those formed in other muscles .
I may also add , that , while in the vermicular stage , the Cysticerci developed in the short muscular fibres of the tongue , are of a shape resembling very much those of the heart .
The investing membrane which has just been described as covered with cilia , is entirely filled with corpuscles , all of one kind , remarkably characteristic , and differing only according to their states of development .
The perfect cells are best seen in the middle of an entozoon , but their mode of formation , and the subsequent changes which they undergo , must be examined in those parts which are increasing most rapidly , as in the growing ends of an animalcule .
The first appearance indicative of an increase in the length of an animalcule is a thinning of the investing membrane , and a separation or partial detachment of the cilia-like fibres at the growing end .
Next , a clear space , of the form of the part which is about to be added , is perceptible a little in advance of this extremity , apparently the result of a very fine membranous protrusion .
This contains numerous dark molecules of different forms and sizes mixed with granules more or less perfectly spherical : the most perfect of these globular bodies are those which are nearest to the perfectly formed part of the animalcule .
These corpuscles , when completely formed , have a bright oily-looking aspect , and a diameter of about o1-th of an inch .
See Plate X. fig. 8 .
These corpuscles have the appearance of being formed by the coalescence of molecules which had existed in the clear space before any corpuscles were apparent , by which they are afterwards replaced .
After a growing end has become thus filled with these globular bodies , the terminal membrane becomes more and more distinct , and the cilia-like fibres are afterwards added , which are generally neither so regularly disposed , nor so distinct as on other parts of an entozoon .
Next , these corpuscles lose their spherical form and become flattened , and lastly , they assume their characteristic elliptical or reniform figure before mentioned ( see Plate X. fig. 10 ) , which they retain as long as the entozoon remains in its primary muscular fasciculus .
This shape , however , is not essential to these corpuscles , but merely results from the rounded form of the masses into which they are grouped together , each corpuscle , by its convexity , forming a segment of the circular outline of its respective group .
These corpuscles contain very fine dark granules , so variously disposed in different ones , as to present a variety of appearances , such as 116 circular or oval spaces , which might be taken for nuclei or nucleoli .
Thesecollections of corpuscles make up nearly the whole of an animalcule , and they frequently give to it a lobulated and sometimes an obscurely annulose appearance .
See Plate XI .
fig. 2 .
The entozoa , as long as they remain in the primary fasciculi , retain all those characters which have so far been described , but these characters gradually disappear after they have broken away from the cavity of the sarcolemma , and gained access to the spaces between the muscular fibres .
In this new situation they gradually lose their former membranous clothing studded with cilia-like fibres , which can occasionally be seen partially deprived of its corpuscular contents , though sufficiently perfect to admit of demonstration .
See Plate X. fig. 16 .
The reniform corpuscles before aggregated together in circular groups now gradually lose their distinctness of outline , and imperfectly coalesce into confused ill-defined masses , having an oily aspect , so that , if in this state one of these vermicules be crushed under the microscope , amorphous oily and granular matter will be seen to have escaped from it , similar to that contained in the ventral part of the adult animal .
Here , too , the restraint to the lateral growth of these entozoa being very much diminished , their breadth increases rapidly , and they present globular projections extending out very irregularly from their sides , giving them an irregular figure .
See Plate XI .
fig. 2 .
These projections gradually take on the form of those which were described on the ventral part of the perfect entozoon .
The largest of the entozoa which I have seen in this stage is about.-th of an inch in length , and ~1oth in breadth .
The next facts requiring especial notice , are those connected with that stage of development which takes place after the animalcule has become surrounded by an adventitious cyst .
The first indication of the formation of such a cyst is , the turgescency of the capillaries , or some of the smaller vessels in the vicinity of one or more entozoa .
Granular bodies , exudation corpuscles , and fibres of different shapes next make their appearance .
These at first only partially obscure the entozoon , but afterwards completely conceal it .
When the cyst is first formed , the animalcule can , by a good light and careful examination , be obscurely seen within it , and by dissection under the microscope it can be dislodged .
See Plate XI .
fig. 1 , which is an accurate representation of one of these animals folded up in its cyst .
Thus folded up , it measures -1th of an inch in length .
Plate XI .
fig. 7 shows a Cysticercus removed from its adventitious cyst .
It has still somewhat of the folded character of the preceding specimen .
This is 4th of an inch in length , and --th in breadth .
The interior of a cyst being smaller than the animalcule contained therein , it naturally follows that during its growth one portion must be folded over another .
By this means it is adapted to the confined locality in which it is lodged during the period of its development .
Hence the ventral portions of all Cysticerei are , when first taken from their cysts , very much plicated ; but these plicma disappear after the ventral sac has become distended with the fluid brought into contact with its surface .
Up to this point of the development of the Cysticercus , it is a simple cyst growing by the assimilation of fluid imbibed equally by every part of its surface , no one part differing sensibly in its structure from another .
No portion of this surface presents any indication of incipient hooklets or suckers .
There is nothing either on its surface or in its interior analogous to the structure of an ovum .
Nor is there any other anatomical character which would raise its organization above that of a simple acephalocyst .
However , this so exactly resembles in its structure that of the ventral portion of a perfect Cysticercus , that it is impossible to doubt their identity of character .
Its size , too , is not much beneath that stage where the suckers and hooklets first begin to present obscure indications of the part they are about to occupy .
I may observe , moreover , that this form , and all the preceding ones , together with perfect Cysticerci provided with the regular number of hooklets and suckers , can , in many specimens of diseased muscle , all be found intermixed together in a space not exceeding a square line .
The dimensions of that form of Cysticercus in which there are obscure , though sufficiently certain , indications of the site about to be occupied by the neck and suckers , are about -1oth of an inch in length , and l6-Xth in breadth .
See Plate XI .
fig. 8 .
The first indication of the addition of the neck with the suckers and hooklets to the ventral part of a Cysticercus , is the appearance about its centre of a slightly raised body , depressed in the middle , with longitudinal folds proceeding from each side of it towards the poles of the ventral cyst , appearing as if at this part the parietes of the latter had been drawn inwards .
See Plate XI : fig. 8 .
On two sides of this hollow there are dark transverse lines , rather more distinct on one side than on the other , indicating the commencement of the transverse rugae of the neck , mentioned in the description of this part in the perfect animal , in which the laminated earthy bodies are contained .
About the central part of the cervical projection there is an ill-defined oval space , having a granular appearance , and containing some minute spherical particles of a dark colour , consisting apparently of a highly refractive material .
See Plate XI .
fig. 8 .
In this condition of the entozoon there is nothing in this space which has the slightest resemblance to the parts which are there about to be developed , namely , the hooklets , suckers , and earthy concretions ; and it is only by the comparison of these obscure appearances with the other specimens in which the development of the hooklets is a little more advanced , that their true signification can be learned .
See Plate XI .
figs. 10 and 12 .
Of these parts I will first describe the development of the hooklets , these being the most remarkable and characteristic organs of a Cysticercus .
By comparing the preceding specimens with one in which some of the hooklets are in progress of development , and sufficiently advanced in their formation to leave no doubt of their real nature , it will be seen that the highly refractive globular particles seen in Plate XI .
fig. 8 are portions of the material of which the hooklets are composed .
The entire:number of these organs is not in progress of formation at the same time , but only about six are being developed at once , and when these are nearly completed , others make their appearance .
The primary condition of one of these organs is very remarkable , consisting merely of a confused and irregular group of very bright particles of a pale straw-colour , 118 which are of various shapes , but still all have a contour more or less curvilinear , and the smaller ones are of a spherical figure .
Their size varies from about that of the third part of a handle of a perfect hooklet , to a particle so minute as scarcely to be appreciable by the highest powers of the microscope .
There are all the intermediate sizes between these extremes .
Notwithstanding , however , these extremes of size and form , all these particles possess the same optical and physical properties , so as to be perfectly recognizable , both when apart and when joined together in the perfect hooklet .
See Plate XI .
figs. 10 and 12 , in which they present no appreciable change in their general appearance .
At a period of the development a little more advanced , some parts of a hooklet can be recognized among these various forms , especially the curved portion , as being most characteristic ; also some parts of a handle can be distinguished ; lastly , the larger pieces , formed obviously by the coalescence of smaller ones , can be seen fused , as it were , together , more or less completely in a newly-formed hooklet , in which frequently the joining is so incomplete as to amount to little more than mere apposition of the coalescing particles .
See Plate XI .
figs. 12 and 14 .
The part first formed is the hook : this has at first its internal cavity rather larger than that in the older ones , and there is an irregularity of its outline , indicating a want of complete union of its component particles .
The handle is formed next : this is more remarkable for its want of symmetry than the curved part , some pieces of it appearing to be merely applied to each other .
See Plate XI .
figs. 10 and 14 .
Lastly , the tubercles are added .
Neither the whole nor the parts of a hooklet undergo any increase in size after being once formed , but , on the contrary , rather suffer a slight diminution .
The hooklets of the old Cysticercus are frequently smaller than those of the young ones .
But these organs vary a little in different animalcules , being rather smaller in some than in others , but those belonging to the same individual are remarkably regular in this respect .
From the facts that have just been mentioned , the hooklets of the animalcule in question do not appear to be formed by cell-development .
For by the most careful examination of these organs , both recent , and after the application of acids , I have not been able to distinguish anything which can be looked upon as a cell or cell-nucleus , calculated to give the idea of their being developed from previously existing cells , or in dependence of cells ; but , on the contrary , all the various forms and characters which they present during the process of their formation simply indicate the coalescence of very minute spherules of an homogeneous material , exceeding the number of a complete set of hooklets , into small globular masses , and these again into larger pieces , and so on successively , until recognizable portions of hooklets come into view , which , coalescing , build up , as it were , an entire organ .
It is worthy of remark , that if these structures had been produced directly from the metamorphosis of previously existing cells , the circumstances connected with their formation would have been the most favourable for observing both the original cells and the changes which they passed through ; indeed , SQ much so , that it is almost impossible a2 that they could have escaped notice .
First , because these parts are of such a size and degree of transparency as to admit of examination with the highest powers of the microscope without the necessity of disarranging them , or disturbing their position by mani .
, pulation .
Secondly , because the material of which they are composed is so dissimilar in appearance to that forming the adjacent tissue , and so characteristic , that it cannot be confounded with the structures in their immediate vicinity .
Thirdly , because at one view , in a favourable specimen , hooklets can be seen in every stage of their formation , from the first grouping together of the masses of formative particles to the blending of them into perfect organs ; and lastly , because it is not as if a mere thread of tissue were formed amongst other threads , slightly differing in appearance , as fibres of elastic tissue , for instance , in a mass of connective tissue , but the objects referred to are perfect organs , which possess an arrangement of parts connected together with order and remarkable regularity .
So that , under such circumstances , if these organs had been preceded by nucleated cells , and the cells had been transformed into hooklets , neither these cells in their primitive state , nor in their several stages of transformation , could have escaped detection .
The parts next to be noticed are the suckers .
Indications of these are visible as soon as the hooklets .
They appear as four circular spaces , presenting a granular aspect , about the size of perfectly-formed suckers .
The two sets of fibres next make their appearance , the radiating and circular , which have not at first the sharp outline which they afterwards acquire , but still appear obscurely granular .
As the tissue of these organs possesses nothing characteristic like that of the parts just described , the progressive changes which they undergo during the different periods of their formation can be but imperr fectly distinguished ; and hence no further description of them will be necessary .
It has been observed in respect to the two sets of organs above described , that their size does not increase materially after once formed ; exactly the reverse is the case in reference to the part called the neck , and the quantity , though not the size , of the laminated bodies , which increase in number as the cavity of the latter increases in size .
These bodies appear as soon as the hooklets and suckers , and they are as large when first formed as afterwards , but there are indications of the transverse wrinkles of the neck before either hooklets or suckers can be distinguished .
See Plate XI .
fig. 8 .
The neck afterwards continues to grow , so that its relative length in respect to the ventral portion is some indication of the age of a Cysticercus .
It is probable that this part does not arrive at its full size until after it has been protruded , which I have never seen to be the case in any animalcules occurring in or between the muscular fibres , and which perhaps is not effected until the entozoa quit their confined locality between the muscular fibres , and gain access to the free surface of a mucous membrane , there , as physiologists generally believe , to be further developed into a higher form of entozoon .
In the preceding observations on the development of the Cysticercus cellulosa , I have confined myself entirely to such facts as are so obvious and easy of verification , as to 120 leave no doubt of their general accuracy , also to such explanations of their meaning as appear to be almost self-evident ; and here I might have concluded this paper had there not remained some considerations entirely of a theoretical nature too important to be omitted .
It will be asked , how the Cysticercus , in its earliest condition , such as I have described it , finds access to the interior of a primary fasciculus .
Before attempting to answer this question , I must observe that my description commences from a condition of this entozoon so complete , that no one , on examining it with the microscope , and comparing it with those forms in which the development is more advanced , would doubt their identity .
But this form , though so low , is very far from being the earliest indication of an abnormal state of the muscular fibres in all those animals which are infested with immature Cysticerci .
These conditions of the muscular fibres can at once be seen to be abnormal , but still they are altogether of an ambiguous character , and therefore I have deferred till now the consideration of them only from a wish to keep that which is certain and distinct from that which is only probable .
Besides the cells and molecules already described as accumulated in sufficient quantity to present the undoubted form of a Cysticercus ( see Plate X. fig. 11 ) , numerous minute irregularly-shapen particles are also found in the same specimens of diseased muscle .
These occur either singly or grouped together in clusters of different shapes and sizes .
Some lie immediately beneath the sarcolemma , others are deeply seated in the substance of the primary fasciculi .
See Plate XI .
figs. 3 and 4 .
They exist both in fasciculi containing imperfect entozoa , and in those of the same specimen in which entozoa are not yet formed .
These particles do not resemble in ' the least the scattered nuclei normally existing in muscular fibres , nor are they like the spherules of oil into which muscular fibres are sometimes converted .
Occasionally , however , there is a state of fatty degeneration of the muscular fibres , coexisting with this disease , which is known by the regularly spherical form of the particles of oil , and their general arrangement in lines ; also by their more equal refraction of light .
The particles peculiar to the cystic disease very often occur where there is no fatty degeneration whatever ; in no instance do they look like the globules of oil seen in fatty muscle and formed at the expense of the sarcous matter , but they exist independently of oil-globules , and appear to be lodged between the smallest fibrillae , tending to separate them longitudinally .
Now , as these particles always exist in conjunction with .
the earliest forms of Cysticerci , and in such cases only , and as it is almost impossible that such a collection of corpuscles and molecules as the one I have described to be the earliest unmistakceable form of this entozoon could have at once come into existence in so characteristic a form as that delineated in Plate X. fig. 11 , I believe that these particles are antecedent ambiguous forms of Cysticerci , and that this is the first stage of the disease as it exists in muscle .
And it is further worthy of remark , that in some specimens of muscle very much infested with Cysticerci , I have found some of the capillaries and small blood-vessels containing molecules of an organic character ; some were so completely filled with such particles as to be entirely deprived of blood-corpuscles , and to be recognizable as blood-vessels only by their mode of ramification .
Their tunics had become so attenuated as not to be visible under the microscope , and the mass of molecules within them presented the appearance of casts of their interior .
In some of these vessels the coat appeared to have been destroyed , and the molecular matter to have become extravasated among the muscular fibres .
See Plate XI .
fig. 5 , which is the representation of a blood-vessel -i-3rd of an inch in diameter , filled with organic molecules , from the heart of a pig very much infested with Cysticerci .
Although , in the instance above mentioned , the quantity of organic molecules in the blood-vessels was so abundant as to be easily detected , yet I may observe that in most cases of Cysticerci I have not been able to find these molecules in the capillaries , especially when they contained blood-corpuscles , so that I am not enabled to state that the presence of molecules in these vessels in sufficient quantity to admit of detection by the microscope is invariably demonstrable .
However , in all cases the smaller blood-vessels and capillaries are in an abnormal condition , but whether this is wholly attributable to the irritation of the incipient entozoa , or to some other cause , is a point which I have not yet been able to ascertain .
Their calibre is very irregular .
Some are much distended with blood-corpuscles , and others have their coats so attenuated as not to be distinctly visible .
This condition of the vessels is best seen in muscles so small as to allow of microscopic examination without the necessity of mechanically separating their fibres , as in the muscles moving the eyeball , especially near the part where the muscular fibres are connected with the tendon .
Although the presence of these abnormal particles of an ambiguous character in the interior of the primary fasciculi , and that of minute molecules in the blood-vessels and their capillaries , with the attenuation of their coats , may not fully answer the question proposed as to the precise manner in which the first forms of Cysticerci find their way into the muscular fibres , still I think these facts render it highly probable that such forms of the entozoa as are represented in Plate X. fig. 11 , existed at first as those minute particles which I have described in the muscular fibres , and that these had found their way to the muscular fibres through the medium of the blood .
Without urging any opinion as to the source whence these entozoa are derived , I may here state , that from certain data which I have collected , and which I will now brieflymention , I believe it possible to institute a course of experiments which might throw some light upon this question .
Through the kindness of Mr. FISHER , Inspector of Newgate Market , and some other persons employed there as salesmen , I have been enabled to examine specimens of measly pork taken from at least fifty different pigs .
In one class of these specimens I found scarcely any but adult Cysticerci , after examining , perhaps , fifty different pieces ; I might , however , find one or two of the immature ones , but these were always in the last stage of the vermicular form .
In others , a second class , I could find only the earliest stages of the Cysticerci , and none of the perfectly-formed ones .
And in the third class of specimens , I found them in every possible stage of development , even in the same field of the microscope .
I think the last class of specimens was the largest .
Now the inference I deduce from these facts is , first , that the animals from which the first set of specimens were taken had some time prior to their being slaughtered been placed under circumstances favourable for the production of Cysticerci ( most probably the food had contained the germs of these animalcules ) , but had for a certain period been withdrawn from them , so that all the younger animalcules-those constituting the vermicular stage had been , as it were , used up to produce the adult ones ; secondly , that those from which the second set had been taken had only been recently placed under such circumstances , and had remained so circumstanced up to the time that they had been slaughtered ; and thirdly , that those from which the third set of specimens had been taken , had , both some time previously , and immediately before they were slaughtered , been placed under circumstances favourable for the production and development of Cysticerci .
Now , as to the determination and discovery of what these favourable circumstances are , it would be necessary that the history of infected animals , giving similar microscopic indications , should be most minutely inquired into , especially in relation to those different periods of the disease , and that the investigation of : all these circumstances should be tested by a series of careful experiments upon living animals and by examinations of their foo and al the circumstances under which themtaey are placed , both during the period these animalcules are being developed in the muscles and afterwards ; so that negative as well as positive evidence might be obtained on the subject .
In concluding this paper , the author thinks it right to append a brief reference to the views at present entertained as to the nature and relations of the Cystic entozoa , in order that the bearing of his own researches may be more clearly apprehended .
A similarity in the form and armature of the head in the Cysticercus and Tape-worm , had led the earlier ento-zoologists to suspect that there was some latent affinity between the Cystic and the Cestoid entozoa , and this surmise has , through recent investigations , grown into a consistent doctrine , according to which it is held that the Cysticercus and Tcenia are but different conditions of the same animal .
It is accordingly now generally understood that the ovum , or rather embryo , of a tape-worm , being introduced into the body of some higher animal , penetrates through the tissues , probably by aid of the three pairs of hooklets with which it is armed , and on arriving at a suitable resting-place is developed into a Cysticercus , in some cases undergoing intermediate changes in its progress thither ; that the Cysticercus is destitute of reproductive organs , but that when the flesh of the animal which has afforded it a temporary abode is devoured by a second animal , the parasite , thus introduced into the alimentary canal of a new host , meets with a fitting nidus for further development , and , losing its caudal vesicle , lengthens out , acquires transverse articulation , and assumes the form of a jointed tape-worm .
The term scolex is applied to the cystic , and strobila to the taenioid form of the entozoon ; and , as each articulation of the Tcenia is furnished with a perfect sexual apparatus , and , when charged with fertile ova or embryos , may separate in due time from its neighbours , a single segment has been looked on as constituting a distinct being , and is named a proglottis .
The evidence of the conversion of cystic into cestoid entozoa is ample .
A particular form of Cysticercus grows into a particular species of Tcenia , of which it is the scolex ; at least this definite specific relation is probable ; and it has now been shown , by numerous and varied experiments , that when Cysticerci are given to an animal with its food , they gradually pass into TIenite , provided the Cysticercus made use of is the true scolex of a species of Tcvnia capable of being harboured by the animal subjected to experiment .
The Tcenit thus produced agree in number with the Cysticerci swallowed , at least never exceed them ; they may be traced in progress of development , and when given successively at suitable intervals , the resulting Tweimt present corresponding differences of advancement .
The Cysticercus cellulose is believed to be the scolex of thse Tenia solium , which infests the human alimentary canal ; and in an experiment made on a condemned criminal , these cystic parasites put into the food a short time before execution were afterwards found in the intestine converted into incipient Tcenie , recognizable as the as enia solium .
The Tieia being thus developed from the Cysticercus , it should naturally follow that the Cysticercus is , in its turn , derived from the Tcnia ; and the fact is established b ; experiments which may be regarded as complementary of the former .
Mature segments of tape-worm , full of embryos , have been given to different animals with their food , and the tissues of these animals have become infested with Cysticerci .
In this way the Tcenia clenurus , given to sheep , has been followed by the production of Ccentrus cerebralis in the brain of these quadrupeds ; Cysticercus fasciolaris has been produced in mice from the Tenia crassicollis of the Cat ; Cysticercus pisiformis has been generated in rabbits from embryos of the Tcenia serrata of the Dog ; and , not to mention other cases , pigs have become infested with the Cysticers celllos , afters afte receiving with their food ripe segments of the Tcwnia solium of the human subject .
Moreover , STEIN found in the alimentary canal of the larva of Tenebrio molitor , the usual six-hooked embryos of an undetermined species of Tcenia and on the outer or peritoneal surface of the stomach of the same larvae , numerous encysted Cysticerci , on nearly all of which the six hooklets shed by the embryo could be perceived adhering to the cyst and thus clearly showing the connexion of the two .
In like manner MEISSNER found cysts containing Cysticerci in the body of the Slug ; and although he did not discover Tnzia-embryos , he found what were unmistakeably their six hooklets attached to the body of the Cysticercus .
While , however , the proof of the derivation of the Cysticercus from a Tenia-embryo thus seems complete , the process of conversion of the one into the other has not hitherto been followed completely in its different steps .
The observations of LEUCKART on this head are perhaps most to our present purpose .
He found , that on giving the ova of Tcnia serrata to rabbits , a numerous brood of Cysticercus pisiformis appeared in the liver , which situation he conceives they might have reached by the route of the vena portoe .
At first they were very small white bodies having none of the marks of Cysticerei ; they afterwards enlarged , assumed an oblong shape , and , piercing through the substance of the liver , escaped into the peritoneal cavity ; then , in a thickening which appeared at the fore-part of the very simple vermiform body , was developed the characteristic head of the Cysticercus with its suctorial disks and circlet of hooks .
No trace of the six embryo-hooks could be detected in connexion with the Cysticerci .
These observations of LEUCKART were published in 1855 , and were not known to the author when he first communicated his researches to the Royal Society in the summer of that year .
Allowing for differences not unlikely to modify the process in different cases , the facts observed by LEUCKART are in no way irreconcilable with the conclusions arrived at in this paper ; and after due consideration of the present state of knowledge concerning the relations subsisting between the Tape-worm and Cysticers , the authorm are sees no reason to distrust the evidence on which the has represented the ysticers celllos as immediately developed from a peculiar vermiform animal , whatever be the mode in which the latter may be derived from a T^iaia-embryo .
Finally , the facts made known in this communication may perhaps serve to throw light on the nature of certain bodies of an ambiguous description observed by VON HESSLING* to be occasionally present in the muscular tissue of the heart of the Ox , Sheep , and Roe Deer .
These objects appear under the form of oval aggregations of granules of a peculiar kind , enclosed in an outer capsule and parted into several smaller masses somewhat like the segments of a yelk in the process of division .
Without hazarding an opinion as to their destination , VON HESSLING compares these bodies to the elongated " tubular capsules filled with similar spore-like granules , which were discovered in the abdominal muscles of mice by MIESCHER , and subsequently in rats by BISCHOPF and SIEBOLD .
These singular formations are described by the last-named observers as being lodged within the sarcolemma of the muscular fibre .
SIEBOLD is inclined to regard them as vegetable parasites ; but they offer many points of resemblance to the early condition of the Cysticercus as described in the foregoing pages .
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES .
PLATE X. Fig. 1 .
A Cysticercus with its neck protruded .
a. The ventral part .
b. The neck .
Fig. 2 .
The free quadrilateral surface at the extremity of the neck , showing the four suctorial disks at its angles , and the ring of hooklets at its centre .
Fig. 3 .
The two sets of fibres , longitudinal and transverse , visible in the membrane of the neck of the Cysticercus , also the laminated calcareous particles .
Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie , vol. v. p. 196 .
Fig. 4 .
A suctorial disk sufficiently magnified to show the circular and radiating fibres .
Fig. 5 .
The entire number of hooklets in situz:-(a ) the circular area circumscribed by the handles of the hooklets ; ( b ) the external zone of circular fibres ; ( c ) the internal zone ; ( e ) the radiating fibres placed between the hooklets , and connecting them together ; ( f ) fibres connecting the hooklets to the central membrane .
Fig. 6 .
Three hooklets:-(a ) one as seen in profile , showing the curved portion and the handle , and at their union a tubercle ; ( b ) one of the larger hooklets with only one tubercle ; ( c ) a smaller hooklet with two tubercles .
Fig. 7 .
The circular depressed part circumscribed by the inner extremities of the handles of the hooklets , as shown in fig. 5 ( a ) , has been here made to project : ( a ) the fibre connecting it with a hooklet .
Fig. 8 .
The growing extremity of an entozoon , showing the extreme end filled with minute molecules and globular corpuscles in various states of development .
Fig. 9 .
The end of an entozoon covered with cilia-like fibres , and containing molecular matter ; also a transverse section of the body or middle part covered with cilia-like fibres placed upon an investing membrane , and filled with reniform corpuscles .
Fig. 10 .
Reniform corpuscles removed from the interior of an entozoon by pressure .
Fig. 11 .
The earliest recognizable form of the vermicular state of the Cysticercus cellulose ?
contained in the interior of a primary muscular fibre .
Fig. 12 .
A Cysticercus of the vermicular form removed from the interior of a muscular fibre , showing the direction and the arrangement of its cilia-like fibres .
Fig. 13 .
A Cysticercus similar to the above , showing the exceedingly thin investing membrane at one of the extremities , devoid of cilia , this part being only of very recent formation .
Fig. 14 .
A Cysticercus in the substance of a primary muscular fibre ; the cilia-like fibres are only faintly visible , being pressed by the surrounding muscular substance closely to the animalcule .
Fig. 15 .
A Cysticercus in its vermicular state taken from the muscular parietes of the heart , showing its general form and its cilia-like fibres .
The latter are much less distinct than in vermicular Oyjsticerci taken from other striped muscles .
Fig. 16 .
The ciliated investment of a portion of a Cysticercus of the vermicular form , from which the reniform corpuscles have been removed .
PLATE XI .
Fig. 1 .
Shows a Cysticercus of the vermicular form folded upon itself in an adventitious cyst , a portion of which is seen upon one of the ends of the animalcule .
This Cysticercus , as thus folded up , measures -l6th of an inch in length .
126 Fig. 2 .
A Cysticercus which has left the interior of a muscular fibre , and become situated in a cellular space between the muscular fibres , among the fat-vesicles always occurring in greater or less abundance in such situations .
The creiate border and obscurely annulose appearance are here shown .
Fig. 3 .
A portion of a primary muscular fasciculus , in which irregular particles , of dif : ferent shapes and sizes , are mixed with the muscular fibrille .
Fig. 4 .
Another portion of a primary fasciculus , in which the same kind of particles as those shown in fig. 3 are grouped together .
Fig. 5 .
A blood-vessel --rd of an inch in diameter filled with organic molecules , taken from the heart of a pig very much infested with Cysticerci .
Fig. 6 .
A portion of the same blood-vessel , magnified 400 diameters , showing the microscopic appearance of its molecular contents .
Fig. 7 .
A Cysticercus removed from its adventitious cyst , whose length is -7th of an inch , and breadth - , -th .
This is the highest stage of the vermicular form , and it combines the characters of that represented in fig. 2 and that in fig. 1 of this Plate , also those of the next figure .
Fig. 8 .
Shows that stage of the development of the Cysticercus in which is seen the earliest indication of the future neck with its hooklets and suckers .
The whole of the animalcule is here shown as magnified 15 diameters .
( a ) the part to be occupied by the neck , where traces of its plicated form , also suckers and hooklets , are beginning to appear .
Fig. 9 .
Shows the part marked ( a ) in the preceding figure , magnified 100 diameters , these parts being faintly indicated .
Fig. 10 .
Shows a stage in which the hooklets are in progress of development ; the neck is but little more advanced than in fig. 9 .
The entire entozoon is here shown as magnified 10 diameters .
Fig. 11 .
The hooklets of the preceding specimen , magnified 100 diameters .
Six of them are sufficiently advanced to be recognizable : ( a ) particles of the material of which others are about to be formed , grouped together , but not yet coalesced sufficiently to form any recognizable portion of a hooklet .
Fig. 12 .
A form a little more advanced , showing the entire entozoon , magnified 10 diameters .
Fig. 13 .
The hooklets of the same specimen , magnified 100 diameters , exhibiting the same appearances , indicative of coalescence , as in fig. 11 ; here there are , however , portions of hooklets sufficiently formed to be recognizable , mixed with particles of the same material not having yet received a recognizable figure .
Fig. 14 .
Portions of hooklets from different specimens , magnified 200 diameters .

