322 On the Experimental Production of Congenital Goitre .
Fig. 6.\#151 ; Another group of scleroblasts with associated colloscleres and vesicles $ under the same conditions as fig. 5 .
x 480 .
Fig. 7.\#151 ; A group of four scleroblasts lying undisturbed in the mesogloea and each showing a secretion-knob .
Stained with paracarmine and mounted in Canada , balsam , x 480 .
Fig. 8.\#151 ; Two scleroblasts with associated colloscleres and vesicles , lying undisturbed in , the mesoglcea with portions of three megascleres .
Stained with paracarmine and mounted in Canada balsam , x 480 .
Fig. 9.\#151 ; A single scleroblast with associated vesicle and collosclere probably secreted by itself , lying undisturbed in the mesoglcea .
Stained with paracarmine and mounted in Canada balsam , x 480 .
Fig. 10.\#151 ; Another scleroblast , isolated by teasing , with its associated vesicle and collosclere .
Stained with paracarmine and mounted in Canada balsam , x 480 .
Fig. 11.\#151 ; A vesicle , with contained collosclere , partially torn away from a scleroblast by teasing .
Stained with paracarmine and mounted in Canada balsam , x 480 .
Figs. 12-16.\#151 ; Five scleroblasts , showing stages in the growth of the secretion-knob. .
From teased preparations stained with paracarmine and mounted in Canada balsam-x 480 .
Explanation of Lettering.\#151 ; col .
, collosclere ; meg .
, megasclere ; mes .
, mesogloea ; nu.r nucleus ; scl .
, scleroblast ; s.k. , secretion-knob ; ves .
, vesicle containing collosclere .
On the Experimental Production of Congenital Goitre .
By Robert McCarrison , M.D. , D Sc. , F.R.C.P. ( lately on Special Duty for the Study of Goitre and Cretinism in India ) .
( Communicated by Sir Victor Horsley , F.R.S. Received March 18 , 1916 .
) [ Plate 12 .
] The experiment herein described was undertaken at the Central Research Institute , Kasauli , India .
It commenced on September 6 , 1913 , and terminated , owing to my recall to military duty for active service , on December 24 , 1914 .
Having been on service for the past 18 months I have-not hitherto had an opportunity to report it .
Object of the Experiment .
\lt ; \#166 ; Its object was to determine the cause of congenital goitre and the-conditions under which it developed in large animals , and to confirm and .
amplify the results I had obtained by previous experimentation on white ratsIt was consequently designed so as to subject the foetuses of primiparse to On the Experimental Production of Congenital Goitre .
323 highly toxic and goitrigenous agencies during intra-uterine life , and to contrast the results with those observed in the offspring of primiparse which had as far as possible been protected from these influences .
Conditions of the Experiment .
For this purpose female goats of the first year , imported from a non-goitrous locality in the plains of India , were used ; they were divided into the following classes for observation:\#151 ; Class A included 12 in which small goitres had been artificially produced .
They were confined in a pen 10 yards square , and permitted to mix freely one with another .
Throughout the experiment and during the whole period of gestation they were fed daily on cultures of bacteria from the faeces of goitrous individuals .
Class B included eight ' females , non-goitrous goats , which were isolated one from another by tethering them some distance apart .
Four of them were also muzzled so as to exclude the possibility of infection by contaminated food , the muzzles being removed only at stated intervals when the animals were fed .
The remaining four were not muzzled .
No cultures were administered to any of them .
Class C included one young female goitrous goat , from which I had removed half the enlarged thyroid .
The animal lived an entirely normal life throughout the period of the experiment .
The animals in all three classes were impregnated by the same non-goitrous male during the same season\#151 ; e.g. , sometime after March 1 , 1914 , when the experiment proper commenced .
Their conditions of life were in every other respect identical .
Those in Classes B and C acted as controls to those in Class A. The only factors , then , to which differences of results could be attributed were:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Intimate contact , in the case of animals of Class A. ( 2 ) Muzzling , in the case of one half of those in Class B. ( 3 ) The presence of goitre in the mothers of Classes A and C , and ( 4 ) The administration of the cultures to those of Class A. VOL. lxxxix.\#151 ; B. Dr. R. McCarrison .
Results of the Experiment .
The results of this experiment are shown in the following Table Class A\#151 ; Receiving cultures Class B ( controls)\#151 ; Muzzled ... ... ... .
Unmuzzled ... ... * Class C\#151 ; ( Controls ) ... ... No. of mothers .
No. of mothers goitrous .
No. of kids born .
No. of kids born alive and healthy .
No. of kids stillborn .
No. of kids stillborn , but fully developed .
No. of kids stillborn , macerated , hairless , and ill-developed .
No. of kids bom with congenital goitre , j Summary , E xperimental , Healthy living kids Stillborn , hairless , ill-developed kids Stillborn , but fully developed kids Congenitally goitred kids 1 , or 9 per cent. 10 , or 90 " 0 , or 0 " 11 , or 100 " Controls .
4 , or 66 *6 per cent. 1 , or 16 *6 " ] , or 16 *6 " 2 , or 33 *3 , , It is clear from these results that there is a marked difference in the three classes of animals .
With regard to the mothers themselves : it was not observed that the goitres of those in the first and * third classes underwent any considerable increase in size during pregnancy .
Amongst the mothers in Class B , however , two of the unmuzzled animals developed small goitres during pregnancy .
With regard to their offspring : 100 per cent , in the first class were goitrous , while 90 per cent , were stillborn , macerated , hairless , ill-developed , and goitrous foetuses , death having been intra-uterine ( Plate 12 , fig. 1 ) .
In the second class , on the other hand , none of the offspring showed all these pathological characteristics at one and the same time .
Three of the five kids born in this class were perfect in health and development , e.g , f 60 per cent. One had slight goitre which disappeared shortly after birth .
A fourth was stillborn and goitrous , but as it was otherwise well developed , covered with a thick coat of healthy hair ( fig. 2 ) and showed no signs of maceration , its death was probably extra-uterine .
The fifth was born prematurely but was not goitrous .
Its premature birth might well have On the Experimental Production of Congenital Goitre .
325 been due to influences quite outside the scope of the present experiment ( fig. 3 ) .
The kid born of the mother in the third class was perfectly healthy ; its thyroid was palpable but there was no goitre .
Amongst the nine control animals , therefore , six had offspring ; 66*6 per cent , of kids born were living and healthy , 33'3 per cent , were stillborn , while 33*3 per cent , were goitrous at birth .
In neither of the two kids born with goitre did the enlargement reach the size of the majority in Class A. Characteristics of the Foetal .
( 1 ) In all cases the congenital goitre of the offspring was markedly larger than that of the mother , sometimes as much as 20 times as large .
( 2 ) Macroscopically they were of the appearance and consistency of normal kidney .
On section the gland resembled a solid organ such as the liver , the cut surfaces freely exuding fluid which subsequent histological examination showed to be composed largely of thin blood-stained colloid .
( 3 ) Microscopically the gland presented the appearances characteristic of very active secretion .
The capillaries were congested , the alveoli small and lined with high columnar epithelium , which was often so high as to almost obliterate the acinar cavity .
The cellular protoplasm was pale and vacuolated , the nuclei large and spherical , or small and irregular-shaped representing recent division forms .
Evidences of nuclear division , of cell-multiplication and of new acinar formation were everywhere numerous .
Thin , pale-staining colloid secretion filled the minute acini , permeated the interstices between the parenchyma cells and distended the lymph spaces , in some of which considerable accumulations of a more deeply-staining colloid were to be seen .
( 4 ) Cultural methods of examination , both aerobic and anaerobic , showed these goitres to be invariably sterile .
JDiscussion and Conclusions .
Returning now to a consideration of the factors to which the differences of results in these animals are attributable , we have first to consider whether the free contact of those in the first class may have influenced the results .
We have seen that goitre appeared in two of the eight control mothers of Class B and congenital goitre in the offspring of both of them , although the animals were prevented by their tethered position from intermingling one with another ; such association is not a necessary factor , therefore , in the development of either acquired or congenital goitre .
It may possess a favouring influence by increasing the infectivity of the site on which the 326 On the Experimental Production of Congenital Goitre .
animals live .
The infection is conveyed from one animal to another by some indirect means and not directly , as by contact .
The factor of muzzling appears to have a more important influence , since neither the muzzled goats nor their offspring developed goitre , whereas 50 per cent , of the unmuzzled goats did .
The prevention of the entry into the alimentary tract of anything but clean food and water appeared to prevent the entry of the infecting agent .
This being so , the infecting agent must have existed or generated in the plot of earth on which the animals were tethered and which their own alvine discharges had grossly contaminated\#151 ; a conclusion which is supported by all reliable observations on man , animals , or fish .
My previous researches and those of Gaylord on salmonoid fishes have shown that fish pollute the tanks , animals the soil , and man the dwellings where they are confined in such a way as to give rise to goitre .
Confinement and faecal pollution are the essential factors in its production ; without them goitre does not arise .
These conditions were fulfilled in the case of the muzzled and unmuzzled goats alike , but in the former infection could not occur , since muzzling closed its route .
The factor of the presence of goitre in the mother is of great importance in the genesis of congenital goitre in the offspring .
Not only were 100 per cent , of the offspring of the goitrous mothers in Class A born with congenital goitre , but also congenital goitre occurred in two kids born of control mothers which had acquired goitre during their pregnancy .
The influence of cultures administered also appears to be great .
The congenital goitres noted in Class A were , as a rule , of large size , while the offspring was almost invariably stillborn , macerated , ill-developed and hairless , an association of pathological characteristics which was not observed in the controls of Class B , or Class C , and attributable , I think , solely to the greater toxicity of the maternal blood in the animals of the former class .
Whether this toxicity was due to the generation by the organisms contained in the cultures of toxic substances after their implantation into the intestinal tracts of the animals or to toxic substances contained in the original culture tubes does not materially affect the argument , since in either event these substances were the products of micro-organisms contained in the culture tubes and the .
true causal agents of the malady .
The toxic products of these organisms , then , possess the property not only of inducing the development of large goitres in the foetus but also of retarding foetal development and bringing about its premature cessation .
The conclusion set forth in my former paper* is , therefore , confirmed .
Congenital goitre is due to the action on the foetal thyroid of toxic * 4 Indian Journal of Medical Research , ' vol. 2 , No. 1 ( 1914 ) .
CambndgeUmvcrsityPrc8S The Ultra-Violet Absorption Spectra of Blood .
327 substances derived from the maternal intestine .
These substances are the products of the micro-organisms originating in faecally contaminated soil , which are conveyed to man and animals by infected food and water .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; Stillborn severely-goitred kid , offspring of a goitrous mother ( Class A ) which consumed cultures from the faeces of goitrous individuals during pregnancy .
Developmental defects are shown in the complete absence of hair and in the condition of the horny hoof .
This case is typical of the 10 foetuses of this class ( A ) .
Fig. 2.\#151 ; Stillborn goitred kid , offspring of an unmuzzled mother ( Class B ) which developed goitre during pregnancy .
The kid is covered with a thick coat of healthy hair , and the hoofs are normal in appearance .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Foetus of muzzled non-goitrous mother ( Class B ) showing no goitre .
The Ultra-Violet Absorption Spectra of Blood Sera .
By S. Judd Lewis , D.Sc .
( Tubingen ) , B.Sc. ( London ) , F.I.C. ( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. Received March 18 , 1916 .
) At the end of the year 1913 there was introduced a new kind of sector spectrophotometer designed especially for investigation of the ultra-violet spectrum .
The possibility of applying the new instrument to the furtherance of medical and physiological science was soon appreciated by the author , and in conference with Dr. C. R. Wheeler it was decided that a study of the ultra-violet absorption spectra of blood sera might lead to results which would be both valuable to science and applicable to clinical practice .
The proposal was placed before the Beit Research Fund Committee , the trustees of a fund which had been placed at the disposal of the British Homoeopathic Association by Mr. Otto Beit for purposes of scientific research .
The necessary support was liberally given by the Association , and still further funds are allotted for continuing the work .
The absorption spectra of blood have engaged the attention of many able and distinguished workers , but the investigation has usually had reference to the visible spectra of haemoglobin and other colourings and to derivatives of these .
The work now to be described has for its object the investigation of the absorption spectra of blood sera in the ultra-violet region .
The serum is freed as much as possible from corpuscles by the centrifuge , and the clear pale yellow liquid itself is studied with a view VOL. LXXX1X.\#151 ; B. 2 E

