]\gt ; Mr. W. Duddell .
On the Resistance and red coJouring matter containing both the albuminous and the iron-containing residues of haemoglobin .
In the case of -haemoglobin the compound deposited has presented the peculiar colour of CO-haemoglobin .
Gen jral Condusions .
The following are the conclusions to which I have been Ied by my experiments : \mdash ; 1 .
The blood-colouring matter , oxy-haemoglobin , as well as carbonicoxide haemoglobin and methaemoglobin , are decidedly netic bodies .
2 .
The iron-containing derivatives haematin and acethaemin are powerfully magnetic bodies .
The differences in magnetic behaviour between the blood-colouring matter and and haematin point to the profound transformation which occurs in the haemoglobin molecule when it is decomposed in the presence of oxygen .
3 .
The preliminary study of the electrolysis of oxyhaemoglobin and CO-haemoglobin renders it probable that , in the blood-colouring matter , the ining group , on which its physiological properties depend , is ( or is contain , d in ) an electro-negative : according to logy , the iron in such a compound would possess diamagnetic and not magnetic properties .
In conclusion , I beg to acknowledge my indebtedness to Professor von Bunge , of Basel , to Professor Franz Hofmeister , of Strassburg , and to Dr. .
Fhrenberg , the technical director of the chemical factory of Messrs. Merck , of Darmstadt , for their great courtesy and in placing at my disposal preparations of haemoglobin prepared by themselves or under their direction .
I have further to add that I reserve to myself the right of continning without delay the researches of which the first resuIts are ined in On the esistance and Electromotive Forces of the Electric Arc By W. DUDDELL , orth Scholar .
Communicated by Professol .
W. E. .
eceived , 1901 .
( Al)stract .
The discrimination between ) nces and electromotive forces in conductors , or apparatus , which both of these of the currcnt is considcred , it is out -hcther such to E. to oxtent on the of .
tho defi11ition of these , ( definition of these dopted .
Forces of the Electric Arc. The essential stipulation is made that whatever means be used to measure the resistance and E.M.F. of the arc , the conditions of the arc must not be in any way changed by the test .
It is considered that the main phenomena of the arc depend on the exact thermal conditions of its different on the distribution of the heated gaseous other particles , so that it is necessary to maintain these constant dnring the test .
This leads to the conditi that not only must the testing rent used be very small , but also that the test must be completed in an exceedingly short time after applying the same .
As ting how very short a time may be allowed to elapse , it found appreciable change in the thermal conditions of an arc had uken place in 1/ 10,000 second after changing the arc current by as little per cent. historical is given showing that previous experimenters not succeeded in measuring the true resistance and back E.M.F. of the arc , due to their not having realised the importance of completing the test before the co1lditions of the have had time to be altered ) the testing current .
Those methods , similar to the Kohlrausch method of measuring ths resistance of an electrolyte , in which an alternating testing current is superposed on the direct current , such as that employed by Messrs. Frith and lodgers , who foumd that they measured as the resistance of the arc had in some cases a ncgative value , shown to have failed owing to the frequency of the alternating testing reIlt not being e1lough .
This frequency should be , instead of few hundred periods per second , as used by previous observers , many thousand per second , in order that the conditions of the arc may not vary , and the true resistance may be obtained .
In the experiments the oscillatory of a condenser was superposed on the mttin direct current through the arc , and was tlsed the testing current , the wave-forms of the superposed oscillatory P.D. and GIlt being recorded by means of an oscillo- graph .
If the arc as a non-inductive resistttnce , the waves of P.D. and currcnt should ) curves , and in phase .
This is found to the case with frequencies up to 5000 periods per second .
The author concludes from these experiments that , each increase made in the frequency of the snperposed alternating current led to the arc itions less affccted by it , and , in consequence , to the arc behaving more more like an non-inducve resistance , eforc t much frequencies arc required to the Mr. W. Duddell .
On the Resistance and true resistance .
In fact , frequencies up to 120,000 periods per second were finally used .
Owing to experimental difficulties in employing the above method with much higher frequencies , a fresh method was adopted .
Basis of Method adopfed .
An apparatus A is considered which has resistance and E.M.F. , but no self-induction , or capacity , and through which a steady current is flowing .
There is mixed with the steady cul.rent an alternating testing current .
It is shown that , if the apparatus A possess a true resistance , and if the frequency of the testing ourrent be such that the of the in by it , then the resistance of will be a constant oyer the range of variation of the current , and equal to the impedance of A to the uperposed alternating current .
A criterio1l that the apparatus A has a constant resistance is that the power factor of A with respect to the alternating testing current must be mity .
It is concluded that in order to prove that the arc has a true resistance and to find its value it is necessary to show :First that it is possible to find a value of the frequency of the testing cucrent for hich the powor factor of the arc with respect to this rrent nlty , second , that the power factor remains unity and the constant , even when the frequency is greatly increased above this value ; thirdly , to determine the vadue of the impedance of the under these conditions , which will be its true reslstance .
Iethod of JIeasuring the Imp Owing to the high frequency of the testing current fin ally used , 120,000 periods per second , it was difficult to devise a sat ac sfactory method of measuring the impedance , and power factor ; wattnle er and dynamometers could not be used , as at these high frequencles their windings more like insulators than con uctors , ductors to their .
The method finally adopted was the } three voltmeter method , for which three pieces of special were used\mdash ; ( 1 ) An aIternator to produce the high frequency currents .
( 2 ) A new measuring instrument called a""Thermo-galvanometer to measure the three voltages .
( 3 ) A standard resistance with which the the wa ared , which had a time constant of only 'secon The High The 'lternator is of the inductor type ; it was belt driven from discs by of a figure of 8 drive , each disc being sepalelte lie belted to the source of power so as to balance , as far as possible , the pull on Forces of the Electric the alternator spindle due to the driving belt .
The speed of the alternator v-as 35,400 revolutions per minute , and the highest frequency periods per second .
To give an idea of how very high fiequency is , it is mentioned that if a frequency of 100 eriods per second be represented by 10 inches , a very ordinary scale plotting curves , then the squared that would be required to plot the curve between impedance and frequency for the solid arc , which extends ove , the range from 250 to 120,000 periods per second , would be 1,000 feet , or about long .
It was found that the spindle alone of the alternator without the inductor could be driven at 60,000 revolutions per minute , or 1,000 revolutions per second .
A table of high frequency alternators shows that this alternator gives a frequency seven or eight times as high as the highest valua previously attained .
: The of this new instl'ument consists in causing the current to be measured to flow through a very fine wire , the heat radiated by the wire measured by a modified Boys ' radio-micrometer .
The instrument is non-inductive , and may be used equally well for direct ting currents .
The actual instrument used has a resistance of bout 1 ohms , and gives a deflection of 500 scale divisions a distance of 2000 divisions ( 1 scale division incf ] ) for a current of about ampere .
Telephone microphone currents can be easily measnred with this strnment .
the This , the investigation of this commurlication , consists in arying the frequency of the superposed alternativg testing current to see frequency , the conditious of the .
The criterion that the conditions of the arc tged has ] ) to ) that the power ctor , as the superposed alternating current , is unity .
Under thosc nces the true resistance will be equal to the impedance .
It is erimcntally f by sufficiently increasing the frequency , that the ) ctor asymptotically to , and that for the hest frequeucies used , it is to within the limits of crlor , therefore at these frequencies the tions of the P.D. and Ohm 's and the of equal to its the factor at periods per sccond is , on increasing the frequency it decreascs mtil it iods per second , lvith further ) of frequency Mr. W. Duddell .
Resistance and the power factor increases rapidly at first , then more slowly becoming asymptotic to , and finally practically attains this value at 90,000 periods per second ; above this frequency the power factor is within the limits of experimental error up to the highest frequency used , , 120,000 periods per second .
The impedance of the solid arc increases with increase of frequency from ohm periods per second to ohm at 90,000 periods per second , above which ib remains practically constant .
The true of the above mm. between .
sofi ' ' Noris " " , and throurfh cnrrenf of is to ohms .
The P.D. accounted for by ohmic drop is therefore volts out of an observed P.D. arc of volts , so that there to be a real back E.M.F. posing t ) flow of the cnrr , in this arc of 12 With carbons the power factor at 250 periods per second is , and it increases until it is practically at 15,000 periods per second , and remains unity within the limits of experimental error up to the highest frequency tried of 50,000 periods per second , the impedance becoming practically constant as with solid carbons .
The true resisfcmce of mm. ' ' Conra Noris\ldquo ; , and which a of 10 is , is be and the back E.JI .
F. volts .
The fact that the solid arc has , at low fi'equencies , a negative power factor , indicates that the arc is supplying power to the adternator : this is shown to be the case by means of a wattmeter .
This is not , of course , at variance with the principle of conservation of energy , as the alternating energy given out by the arc is derived from the direct current energy supplied to it .
This fact that the solid arc is capable of transforming , under suitable conditions , direct current into ting current is the basis of the " " Musical Arc\ldquo ; recently shown for the first time , at the Institution of Electrical Engineers .
Effect of , tloe Having found that it is possible to tsure the true resistance and back E.M.F. of the arc , the effect of changing the direct current , the arc having a constant length of 3 mm. , is examined .
The resistance of both the and the arcs is found to increase with decrease of the current through the arc , tpparently tending to become infinite for current O. The back E.M.F. of the soli arc first decreases with crease of currcnt and then incleases again , a minimunl value of volts at about 6 amperes .
Vith ( carbons the back .
increases with increase of current from volts at 1 ampere to 5 volts at mpel e. The high P.D. required to cnrrent arcs are shown to be to the of these Forces of Electric Arc. The connection between the resistance and the current A for the corr arc , length 3 mm. between 11 mm. , " " Conradty Noris\ldquo ; rbons , can be approximately expressed over the range to 20 amperes ) For the arc , length 3 mm. between the same and make of carbons , and over the range to 11 amperes , the tion is of Arc Lcngth .
The direct throngh the arc being kept constant , the in resistance and back .
due to change of arc length is mined .
It is that both for and for ( arcs increasing the length increases the , the cnrves between resistance and length being very similar to those betwcen P.D. arc and length .
This latter is generally assnmed to be a .
line for solid arcs , bnt such uot the case over the vide range of , 1 to 30 mm. , used for these experiments .
of ing of Both the resistance and the back E. .
are to depend grently on the composition of the electrodes ; thus simply .
of solid rbons in potassium carbor ) , reduced the resistance of the arc ) etween them from to ohms , increased its .
from 1 volts to volts , arc length and direct current leing kept resnlts were by introducing other impurities .
The mthor is of the opinion that the resistance of an veen 1.( electrodes wonld ) very high , so high it might ) to true , and of impurities esscntial to provide the carricrs of the electric charges in ) vapour colnmn .
of order to determioe hethcr the back E. localised at the electrodes , istril ) the pour c a search roduced into an mm , ctwcon .solid Noris\ldquo ; ) , 11 mm. meter , curlent amperes .
The rIcc to the high frequency culrcnt , of th of the arc between the search rbon of the ( for different positions of the se ) these tests it is deduced that the of the ) , consists of three or the of the electrodc ( the cohuun of ) ) the 518 Rpsistance and omotive Forces of the Electric Arc. resistance of the vapour column , about ohms ; and a resistance at or near the contact between the vapour column and the negative electrode of about ohms .
The E.M.F. consists of two parts located at or near the contact between the electrodes and the vapour column .
That at the electrode , about 17 volts , oppos the flow of the direot current while that at the ) electrode , about 6 volts , the flow of the current , , is a The author considers what the new facts given in the paper assist in formulating a consistent explanation of the resistance and back E.M.F. of the arc .
The values found for the resistance of the vapour column and for the contacts between it and the electrodes offer no serious difficulties .
The greater part of the two 's are considered as eing most probably due to thermo-electric forces , and experiments in support of this view are described , in which it was found possible to obtain a P.D. of volt ) unequally heating two solid carl ) electrodes with a blow-pipe flame , the voltmeter indicating that the hotter carbon was positive to the cooler .
By using carl ) and adding potassinm salts , this P.D. was increased to It is pointed out that the differences of temperature existing in the must bs many times as great as those which it is possible to produce with the blow pipe , as the cooler electrode must be red hot , or else it does not seem to make contact with the surrounding flame .
On the esistance of an Eljctrolvfte .
In measuring the resistance of an electrolyte by the Kohlrausch method , it is often assumed that the errors due to polarisation are voided if the frequency of the alternating or interrnpted ctlrreltt used , is as high as a few hundred periods per second .
To investigate the CCllracy of ssumption the arc was replaced by a cell sulphuric , density ( temperature as the electrolyte , and its impedance and power factor tested exactly the same way as those of the .
It is with this cell that it was not until the frequency exceeded 10,000 periods per second that the eIectrolyte behaved as a non-inductive resistance , and the errors due to the polarisation were voided .
If the resistttnce of this cell were tested in the at a frequency of 100 periods per , the value obtained be its true resistance .
It is concluded that unless other methods are adopted to eliminate the effects of isation , it ?
lot that the of alter ?
currents of a per ofto pol

