166 ZOOLOGY OF KEKGUELEN ISLAND .
Pishes.\#151 ; By Dr. A , F.B.S. The species collected are four in number , three of which were previously known to occur on the shore of the Island , viz. :\#151 ; rhinoceratus , and Notothenia coriiceps .
The fourth is a Ray , apparently undescribed , which may he characterised thus :\#151 ; Raja eatonii .
Allied to B. smithii .
Snout of moderate length , the anterior margins meeting at a right angle ; the width of the inter-orbital space is two-sevenths of the distance of the eye from the end of the snout .
The anterior profile , from the snout to the angle of the pectoral fin , is slightly emarginate , the outer pectoral angle being rounded .
The greater part of the upper surface of the body is smooth , minute spines are distributed between the eyes , and in a narrow stripe along the margins of the body ; a broad band of minute spines along the median line of the back and the upper surface of the tail ; a single larger recurved spine in the middle of the back ; a series of nine or ten rather small spines placed at a considerable distance from each other along the median line of the tail ; no spines on the side of the tail .
Lower parts smooth .
Upper lip fringed on the side ; teeth pointed , conical , in about 30 series in the upper jaw .
Male with a patch of claw-like spines on each pectoral fin .
Brownish black above , with indistinct round whitish spots ; whitish below , with some irregular brownish-black spots ; lower part of the tail brownish-black .
A single adult male was obtained in Loyal Sound .
It is 26^ inches long , the tail measuring 14 inches ; its greatest width is 18 inches .
A specimen of the female sex was obtained during the visit of the " Challenger " to the island .
It differs very little from the male , but , of course , the claw-like spines on the pectoral are absent .
The lower part of the body is entirely white .
A second species of Bay ( Baja murrayi , Gthr .
) was found in Kerguelen 's Land also by the naturalists of the " Challenger .
" This will be described in connexion with the collection made during that expedition .

