332 A Further Note on the Nutrition of the Early Embryo : Special Reference the Chick .
By E. Emrys-Roberts , M.B. , Ch. B. Victoria and Liverpool , Sub-curator of the Pathological Museum ( Gynaecological Section ) , University of Liverpool .
( Communicated by Professor C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received April 3 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1908 .
) In furtherance of the views put forward regarding the nutrition of the early embryo by the author in a preliminary note read before the Royal Society in February , 1905 , the following series of experiments was carried out .
The changes that take place between the growing embryo and the maternal secretion are , in the mammalia , not easy to study , on account of the difficulties to be encountered , such as the minute size of the embryo , and the small amount of uterine secretion available .
In birds , on the other hand , the uterine secretion , viz. , the white of the egg , is abundant .
The growing embryo can be examined easily at any stage which may be desired , and , since all the changes which take place do so within the limits of the shell , the products of these changes are capable of accurate analysis .
It appeared to the writer , as will be indicated by a reference to the note referred to , that the uterine secretion was assimilated by the growing embryo not by a process of osmosis , but by direct digestive changes brought about by the outermost cells of the embryonic vesicle .
Such digestive changes , if they did occur , would naturally lead to the presence of digestive products in the uterine secretion in contact with the growing embryo , if not to an actually demonstrable presence of an enzyme in this secretion .
In the note also it was surmised that the uterine secretion of mammalia contained albumin and mucin .
The examination of the resting uterus of a cow established the presence of proteid , mucin , and salts , as did also the examination of the uteri , some resting , some in the pre-cestral stage , of seven bitches .
The examination of the uterus of a cow in the pre-oestral stage was interesting : externally both horns were injected , one horn , much larger than the other , was surmised to be the horn of a previous gestation ; internally the lumina were bathed in a watery secretion tinged , especially near the Fallopian tubes , with blood .
It was noticeable liow watery the secretion was in comparison with the somewhat mucoid condition of the same secretion in the resting stage .
The cervical and vaginal secretions , on A Further Note on the Nutrition of the Early Embryo .
333 the other hand , were profuse and extremely mucoid .
The above secretions , both uterine , cervical , and vaginal , were slightly alkaline to litmus .
A series of experiments was made upon the egg-white surrounding the developing chick .
It is well known how this substance decreases in bulk as development proceeds , but apparently no means have been taken to show what changes are undergone during this process .
In egg-white one has to deal with three main distinct components\#151 ; the proteid , the water , and the salts .
Milroy states that normal egg-white contains 10 to 13 per cent , of proteid ( i.e. , approximately 87 to 90 per cent , of water ) , but his results were obtained after straining through muslin , which naturally would lead to a higher percentage of water when compared with results obtained where no straining was introduced .
As incubation proceeds , the most obvious change in the egg-white , after its diminution in bulk , is its extreme tenacity , so much so that it is with great difficulty that it can be removed for examination .
It also becomes more yellowish-green in colour , probably due to its more concentrated state .
It is evident , therefore , that the loss of water has been disproportionate to the loss of proteid .
That this is so is demonstrated by the percentages of water taken at different stages , when it will be seen that the disproportion increases as incubation proceeds ( vide Diagram ) .
The most remarkable change is that which affects the reactions of the substance : instead of being soluble in distilled water , as is fresh egg-white , a white coagulum is formed at the interface between the water and the proteid , rendering solution difficult ; if , however , the substance is shaken up with distilled water in a flask over a period of some days , with a few drops of xylol added in order to ensure sterility , it will be found that on each day a certain portion of the substance will have become soluble , leaving a gelatinous mass in which , on section , foetal villi can be demonstrated .
In the early stages it is somewhat soluble in normal saline solution , but later it becomes more and more difficult to dissolve .
On heating , the substance becomes dried , but fails to coagulate .
It is precipitated by dialysis .
At this point certain changes are going on in the salts of the egg-white , as demonstrated by the amount of ash after incineration .
It will be seen ( vide Diagram ) that while in relation to the amount of egg-white the percentage of water is rapidly decreasing , that of the salts remains much the same for unfertilised as for fertilised eggs ( whether due to osmotic influence or not is conjecturable ) .
But it is evident that as the egg-white loses its water the proteid becomes more and more concentrated , so that , taken in relation to the amount of proteid ( dried at 110 ' ) , that of the salts shows a more or less corresponding decrease , which is interesting from a comMr .
E. Emrys-Roberts .
A Further [ Apr. 3 , parative tabulative point of view .
Since the percentage of salts , however , to the amount of egg-white is much the same for both conditions , it seems that one cannot ascribe the changes in reaction of the egg-white in the fertilised egg as being due to either a diminution of , or an excess in , the percentage of salts present .
This has a bearing upon the influence of salts in the DAYS OF INCUBATION Fresh.i u in 17 yihh ix x s xnxmxiyxyxsi f/ ?e % of .
As/ ?
to Dried Pro/ e/ d o dr ?
Pert/ // zed .
Pert/ '/ /zedfr/ ys .
DAY5 OF irNCUBATIOM Fresh i n m n wi vnvnr k xxixnmsmxzi .95 .9 .65 .6 .55 .5 *45 77/ eZ of As/ / to fod-w/ t/ ie o defer/ // /zed ' , foes .
* ferZ/ /ized fggs .
DAYS OF I rsciJB ATI on freshi n nrnrviDvnvniixjxixnxuixwxyxTi DAYS OF mCUBATIOn Freshi n hm ?
via wwi ix x s xnmmsvM .50 .25 41 .
Q 9 9 0 0 o $ 0 O u ( " ) T/ ?e % of Wafer o defer/ /Z/ zed fggs .
fert/ Z/ zed TZ/ e % of .
As/ / to Water o dr fert/ Z/ zed fg^s . .
fert/ Z/ zed building up of certain proteids .
It also suggests the inference that the water of the egg-white is removed at a much greater rate , for the purposes of the embryo 's nutrition , than either the salts or the proteid .
What the composition of the proteid of the egg-white in the fertilised egg is is not clear .
Attempts to analyse it show it to be globulin , though by no means partaking of all the reactions of this class of substance .
Experiments were conducted to ascertain the presence or absence of 1908 .
] Note on the Nutrition of the Early Embryo .
335 albumoses , peptones , etc. , in the egg-white of developing eggs .
The methods adopted were : ( 1 ) To shake up the insoluble white with distilled water ; through the coagulated interface the albumoses and peptones passed into solution and gave a well-marked biuret reaction .
( 2 ) To add 10 times its bulk of absolute alcohol to the egg-albumin , to stir thoroughly , allowing the alcohol to remain for at least seven days .
At the end of that time all the albumins and globulins were coagulated and the albumoses and peptones precipitated .
On washing the filtered mass with distilled water , the latter were rendered soluble and passed out into the filtrate , where they were examined .
From the sixth day onwards distinct evidence was obtained by means of the biuret reaction of the presence of albumoses and peptones .
Examination of the yolk and of the amniotic fluid by the same means failed to elicit their presence in these substances .
Occasionally , it may be remarked , the biuret gave a reduction on standing , also obtained on boiling .
The phenomenon was as follows:\#151 ; The rose pink appeared readily , to quickly become a brown solution ; on standing , the brown was precipitated in the form of a flocculent precipitate , the pink colour returning to its original shade when the precipitate had settled ( at the end of 18 hours ) .
What this reducing agent is is not known , it is improbable that it is a form of sugar .
J. Stark has carried out an experiment which may be referred to here .
He found that if a greatly diluted albumin solution , any pre-existing globulin having been removed by filtration , is kept at 56p C. or over for some little time , it contains a proteid with the following reactions:\#151 ; ( 1 ) It is precipitated by CO2 , acids , and the addition of a very small quantity of alkaline-earth salts .
( 2 ) Precipitated by dialysis .
( 3 ) Can be salted out by MgSO4.NaCl .
KCl .
( 4 ) Soluble in dilute alkalies and very dilute acids with absorption of the same .
( 5 ) Insoluble in H20 and dilute neutral salts ( it dissolves in the latter only if a trace of alkali is present ) .
( 6 ) It holds less ash than albumin .
( 7 ) It contains less sulphur than albumin .
( 8 ) It contains more water than coagulable proteid .
( 9 ) It is not heat coagulable .
( 10 ) It forms an opalescent solution like all globulins .
( 11 ) It sets free more reducing substance on boiling with acid than albumin .
( 12 ) It is sensitive to the influence of salts in an acid solution , not in an alkaline .
( 13 ) The neutral salts play , under the same circumstances , a role such as they do with globulins .
Examination of unfertilised eggs which have been incubated along with the fertilised shows that no material change has taken place in the reactions of the egg-white of the former , and so heat alone cannot be said to be the cause of the changes noticed in incubating developing eggs .
Again , whilst VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B. 2 D 336 Mr. E. Emrys-Roberts .
A Further [ Apr. 3 , this substance is admittedly more watery than coagulable proteid ( e.g. , egg-white ) , our substance is definitely more concentrated than fresh egg-white .
Both , however , are precipitated by dialysis .
Both can be salted out by MgS04 .
Both are insoluble in water .
Both are uncoagulated by heat .
Both form opalescent solutions .
It is questionable whether our substance holds less ash than albumin , it is certainly not readily soluble in dilute alkalies and very dilute acids .
So that , although both substances differ from albumin in many similar particulars , they cannot by any means be said to be identical .
On the whole it is sufficient to say that we are dealing with a substance of a proteid nature , bearing a resemblance to the group known as globulins .
Until some new methods of proteid classification are introduced it is impossible to be more definite in one 's description .
L. Moll has found that by warming albumin to 60 ' C. , in the presence of an equal quantity of 0'079-per-eent .
Ra2C02 , it is converted into a globulin which appears to be similar to natural globulin , the amount of globulin being dependent on the concentration of the albumin solution .
The carbonates , bicarbonates , and phosphates of the alkaline metals work equally , but weaker than the hydrates .
While , according to Tarchanoff and Zoth , if hen 's eggs are placed for two to three days in 10 -per-cent .
KOH , then the egg-white is no longer coagulable in the usual way on being boiled , but sets into a vitreous transparent jelly , as the salts are diminished while the alkalies are increased in amount .
In both experiments are seen the effects of alkalies on egg-white , whereby this substance is apparently altered in a somewhat similar fashion to that produced by the action of the developing chick ; unfortunately , too little is said of the reactions of the substance produced in these experiments to justify any definite comparison .
It is not necessary to enter into a minute description of the embryology of the chick ; suffice it to say that the action of the chick on the white takes place by means of the chorionic epithelium , the products up to the fourth day being conveyed directly to the embryo by the mesoblast .
When , however , the mesoblast splits to form the coelom , the connection between the embryo and the chorion is threatened , but about the fourth day the allantoic stalk reaches the chorion , and thus bridges the gap , allowing the process to continue without interruption .
Finally , the allantois is said to envelop the remaining egg-white so as to accelerate its assimilation , which is completed by the end of incubation .
It thus follows that , in addition to its function as the respiratory organ , the allantois serves the purpose of conveying the nutrition of the egg-white to the growing embryo .
The experiments made upon the developing chick recorded above have 1908 .
] Note on the Nutrition of the Early Embryo .
been repeated during this year ( 1907 ) , and have fully confirmed the results obtained in 1905 and 1906 .
My very best thanks are due to Professor B. Moore and Dr. H. E. Boaf for their kind assistance .
Conclusions .
1 .
The secretion of the resting mammalian uterus contains protein , mucin , and salts ; during the pre-oestral stage the proportion of mucin is decreased .
2 .
The profuse mucinous secretion of mammalia during pre-oestrus is derived not from the body of the uterus , but from the cervix and vagina .
3 .
The nutrition of the embryonic chick is not dependent upon the yolk alone , but also upon the egg-white .
4 .
Assimilation of the egg-white is divisible into three heads\#151 ; the water , the salts , and the proteid .
5 .
Of the three , the water is at first extracted at the most rapid rate , i.e. , the percentage of water decreases as incubation proceeds .
6 .
The percentage of salts in the egg-white remains more or less unchanged throughout incubation .
7 .
The proteid of the egg-white is assimilated not by a process of osmosis , but by a process of digestion performed by the chorionic cells , 8 .
During this process the egg-white is considerably altered in composition and reaction , being converted , as incubation proceeds , into a more and more vitreous mass with a peculiar set of reactions , the outstanding reaction being that demonstrating the presence of albumoses and peptones .
REFERENCES .
1 .
Chipman .
" Observations on Placenta of Rabbit , with special reference to the Presence of Glycogen , Fat , and Iron , " ' Studies from Royal Victoria Hospital , Montreal , ' , vol. 1 , No. IV ( Gynaecology 1 ) , December , 1902 , pp. 5 , 9 , 12 , 15 , 16 , 123 , 135 .
2 .
Darwin and Acton .
" Pract .
Phys. of Plants , " pp. 285\#151 ; 287 .
3 .
Eicholz .
" Hydrolysis of Proteids , " ' Journ. Phys. , ' vol. 23 , p. 167 .
4 .
Fischel .
" Puerperal Peptonuria , " ' Archiv fur Gynsekol .
, ' vol. 24 , Part III , p. 27 .
5 .
Idem .
" On the Presence of Peptone in Incubated Hen 's Egg , " 'Zeitschr .
f. Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 10 , pp. 11\#151 ; 13 , 1885 .
6 .
Giacosa .
" Etudes sir la Comp , de l'CEuf et de ses Enveloppes chez la Grenouille commune , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Phys. Cliem .
, ' vol. 7 , p. 40 .
7 .
Green .
" Fermentation , " ' Annals of Botany , ' vol. 7 , pp. 83\#151 ; 137 .
8 .
Hitschmann and Lindenthal .
' Centralbl .
f. Gyn .
, ' 1902 , p. 44 .
338 A Further Note on the Nutrition of the Early Embryo .
9 .
Liebermann .
" Embryo-chemistry , " ' Pfliiger 's Archiv , ' vol. 43 , pp. 71\#151 ; 151 ; " On the Diastatic Ferment in Hen 's Egg , " Jahr .
29 , p. 868 .
10 .
Maixner .
" Peptonuria , " 'Centralbl .
f. d. med .
Wissensch .
, ' vol. 17 , pp. 593\#151 ; 594 .
11 .
Marshall .
'Vertebrate Embryology , ' pp. 220 , 221 .
12 .
Milroy .
' Practical Physiological Chemistry , ' p. 22 .
13 .
Moll , Leopold .
" Uber kiinstliche Umwandlung von Albumin in Globulin , ' ' Beitrage sir Chem. Phys. u. Path .
, ' vol. 4 , p. 563 .
14 .
Petry .
" Ein .
Beitrage sir Chemie maligner Gesch .
, " ' Zeitsch .
f. Phys. Chem. , ' vol. 27 , p. 398 .
15 .
Robitschek .
" Peptonuria is Physiological in Puerperal Women , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Klin .
Med. , ' vol. 24 , p. 556 .
16 .
Sachs .
' Text-book of Botany , ' 2nd edition .
17 .
Shattock .
" Peptone in Pus , " 'Trans .
Path .
Soc. Lond. , ' vol. 43 , p. 229 .
18 .
Stark , J. " Tiber Transformation von Albumin in Globulin , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 40 , 1900 , p. 494 .
19 .
Idem .
" Globulin als Alkali-Eiweissverbindung , " ' Zeitschr .
f. Biol. , ' vol. 40 , 1900 , .
p. 419 .
20 .
Vernon .
" Peptone-splitting Ferments of Pancreas and Intestine , " 'Journ .
of Phys. , ' vol. 30 , p. 330 .

