]\gt ; Jnduction of lectric Cin Infinite Plates , .
113 hands of my friend and colleague , Professor Roscoe , F.R.S. , the only sample of the protagon of which the analyses had been communicated to the Royal Society ; this was a twice -crystallized of protagon from -brain , which had been employed for analyses 3 and 4 .
The remalnmg speclmens had been used in experlments on the products of decomposition of protagon .
I requested Dr. Roscoe , to whom I communicated Dr. Thudichum 's criticism , to determine the amount of mineral impurities , and especially of potassium present in protagon .
He has kindly furnished me with the ensuing report , with which I shall close this communication , as I am convinced that no one will expect me to enter into a polemical discussion with the author of previously quoted matter .
The Owens College , Manchester , December , 1879 .
I have examined spectroscopically for potash a sample of protagon furnished me by Dr. Gamgee , and labelled " " twice recrystallized .
Blankenhorn I could not detect any potash by the spectroscope in the incinerated mass from .
of substance .
With the carbonized mass obtained from .
of substance I obtained the potassium line very faintly , and from experiments with a dilute solution of a potassium salt , I estimate the quantity of potash in 1 .
of the substance not to exceed mgrm .
The carbonized residue of 1 grm. of protagon was carefully oxidized with pure nitric acid , when a small quantity of fused metaphosphoric acid remained after ignition .
This residue weighed corresponding to per cent. of phosphorus .
* ( Signed ) H. E. ROSCOE .
III .
" " On the Induction of Electric Currents in finite Plates and Spherical Shells By C. NIVLN , , Professor of Mathematics in Queen 's College , Cork .
Communicated by J. W. L. GLAISHER , M.A. , F.R.S. Received Jamuary 21 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the present paper is to determine the currents which are induced in an infinite plate of uniform conductivity and finite thickness , and in a sphere or spherical shell of any thickness when in the presence of a varying magnetic system : and in any of these bodies when rotating near a constant magnetic system , round an axis which is normal to the faces of the plate or passes .
the centre *The mean quantity of phosphorus found by Gamgee and nkenhorn was per cent.\mdash ; A. G. VOL. XXX .
potential ; and let be the components of the vector potential just outside , the boundary conditions are When , as in the cases treated in the paper , it is shown that must vanish everywhere , and there is no free electricity within the conductor or on its surface .
Infinite Plate .
For the case of an infinite plate , the sealar potential of the system and the vector components are given by The vector potential of the currents in the ] , and the currents themselves are given by ' , where They are also expressed in semipolar -ordinates , thus:\mdash ; where 1880 .
] Infinite Plates and Spherical Shelts .
115 The mode of solution adopted is to consider the variations of the external system as a series of impnlses , producing a succession of currents which decay according to the law being the conductivity .
the value of rise suddenly from to , the corresponding value of will be initially ; and , at any subsequent time , will be given , for an external point , on the positive side of the plate , by where in which , The origin is midway between the faces of the plate , and the last summation is to be extended over all the values of and , derived from these equations .
By putting , and making infinitely small , we deduce the tion for an thin sheet .
The result coincides wibh MaxweU 's .
Sphere or Spherical The formulae adapted to this case are , and [ We have here resolved along the elements ] .
When the shell is of finite thickness , the solution is expl.essed in terms of spherical harmonics and of the functions which are solutions of the equation Induction in Conductor .
When the conductor rotaes uniformly about an axis of symmetry the currents will become , after a time , steady .
In the case of an infinite plate of finite thickness , the vector potential and currents will have the same general forms as before , but the electric potential not be zero .
The solution is now expressed by taking ' , ( being the angular velocity ) .
When the inducing magnetism lies all on the positive side of the plate , we may express within ib in the form the origin being on the positive face .
The value of at any external point on the side may be expressed by where 1880 .
] Physical Constants of Liquid Hydrochloric Acid .
117 When the plate becomes a thin sheet we may put , and make infinitely small ; we shall then have If we express and as functions of being found on the original system of variables .
There seems to a mistake in Maxwell 's integration here , but it does not affect the representation of the result by means of the spiral trail of images which he has given .
Syherical tductor .
In the case of a sphere or spherica ] shell , the vector potentials and currents will have the same general forms as before , and the solution is contained in the equations From the general formulae expressing completely the fact of the she]l on external points , we pass to one whose is infinitely small : putting then , we finally which may be integrated as before .
It indicates a spiraI trail of images differing somewhat from the former ; that due to a singe pole will form a curve lying on a cone , and would be , if the cone were developed , series of portions of an equiangular spiral .
IV .
" " On { he Constants of Liquid Hydrochloric Acid By GERRARD ANSDELL , F.C.S. , Chemical Assistant at the Royal Institution .
icated by Professor DLWAR , F.R.S. Received January 22 , 1880 .
In a paper read before the Royal Society , on June 18th , 1879 , I described the results of some expel.iments made with liquid acetylene , obtained by compressing the gas in one of M. Cailletet 's ingenious

