April 28 , l853 he EARL OF ROSS .
E , President , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled QOn the Application of the Law of the Conservation of Energy to the DeterminEation of te Magnetic : Mieridian on board Ship , when out of reach r out of sight , " f Land .
" B.W. .
t. Macquornm ankine .
Commimuicated by Colonel Sabine , RiA .
, Treas .
, V.P.R. S. &amp;c. ' eceived April 5 , 1853 .
The author states that , assuming that when a ship is sWiung completely round , so that h he head bears exactly as itl did at first the magnetism of the ship , and that of the compass-needle return to their original condition , the following theorem is neeessarily true : The mechanical power developed by the mutual action of the ship and of the compass needle uring a co let revolution of the ship , is eqal to zero .
If 't be the apparent magnetie azimuth of the ship 's head ' east of north ; a ' the corresponding apparent magnetic azimuth of a distant fixed terrestrial object ( or where no such object is visible , of a star , corrected by calculation for itst apparent diurnal motion ) ; a the true magnetic azimuth of the same object , so that a--a is the westerly deviation of the compass-needle ; then theabove theorem is expressed symbolically thus:-0= z sin(a--a ) .
dt , 'sin a cos a. d-co Jo Jo Jo from which it follows that sin a. d- ' cos a. dt 0t The author , remarkls , that f for the inte rals i , ti s fomula are to be substituted , in practice , the algebraical s : uwms the sines and cosines respectively , of the apparent magnetic bearings of the distant object , observed with the ship 's head successively on the sixteen principal points of the compass ( or on eight principal points , as the case may be ) .
He considers that this method may prove useful in magnetic surveys of the ocean .
Additional remarks to the foregoing paper .
Received April 14 , 1853 .
In consequence of a suggestion of Professor William Thomson , the author here investigates the modifications required in the formulae of the previous part of his paper , when the compass-needle produces by induction a sensible effect on the mutual magnetic action of the earth and the ship .
Let A , as in Mr. Archibald Smith 's formulae , represent the mean of the sines of the deviations of the compass-needle observed during a complete revolution of the ship .
As there is reason to believe that this quantity does not vary for a given ship in different parts of the earth so long as the quantity and distribution of her iron are unchanged , it may be determined , once for all , while in port , in the usual way .
When the ship is out of reach of land , let s be the mean of the sines , and c the mean of the cosines , of the apparent magnetic azimuths of a distant object observed during a complete revolution of the ship .
Then the sine of the true magnetic azimuth of the object is given by the formula s V(c2 +s -A ) cA When A=0 , this formula becomes tana= , being identical with that of the previous part of this paper .

