6 Total Edlpse of the Sun , January 22 , 1898 .
" Total Eclipse of the Sun , January 22nd , 1898 .
Observations at Viziadrug.\#151 ; Part IV .
The Prismatic Cameras .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received December 22 , 1900\#151 ; Eead January 17 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) The report gives full particulars concerning the 6-inch and 9-inch prismatic cameras which were used during the eclipse , and the results obtained .
Twenty-four of the photographs are reproduced .
A table is given indicating the wave-lengths and probable origins of the 856 lines which have been measured between D and A 3663 .
The investigation shows the probable presence of both arc and enhanced lines of calcium , chromium , iron , manganese , nickel , strontium , titanium and possibly cobalt , copper , indium , lead , molybdenum , potassium , and rubidium ; arc lines of aluminium , barium , carbon , magnesium , sodium , scandium and possibly cerium , lanthanum , lithium , rhodium , and tantalum ; enhanced lines of vanadium , and possibly of bismuth , caesium , gold , ruthenium , selenium , silicium , thallium , tin , tungsten , yttrium , zinc , and zirconium .
Hydrogen , helium , and asterium are also present .
No evidence has been found of the presence of antimony , arsenic , cadmium , iridium , mercury , osmium , palladium , platinum , silver or thorium .
Further investigations of the coronal rings have led to no definite results regarding their origins .
" Wave-length Determinations and General Results obtained from a Detailed Examination of Spectra photographed at the Solar Eclipse of January 22 , 1898 .
" By J. Evershed .
Communicated by Dr. Eambaut , F.E.S. Received December 12 , 1900 \#151 ; Eead January 17 , 1901 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the results are given of a detailed study and measurement of a series of spectra photographed at the eclipse of 1898 , with a glass prismatic camera of 2-| inches aperture .
Jen exposures were made , all yielding good negatives , in which the great extension in the ultra-violet is a marked feature .
The first two photographs of the series were exposed at 20 seconds and 10 seconds before totality respectively , and are images of the cusp spectrum .
They show the Fraunhofer lines with great distinctness , although the latter are much less dark than in the

