Total Eclipse of the S May 28 , 1900 .
337 found will ever be forthcoming , for , as we have already observed , we know from Miss Fawcett 's wide series of skull correlations that we have practically chosen the organs of the highest correlation .
Better data for determining the equations will undoubtedly be available as further craniological measurements are made , or as the great mass already made are quantitatively reduced .
In the last place we turn to the third problem : the reconstruction of the capacity of the living head .
The memoir contains tables of the skull capacity of some sixty men , and also of some thirty women , whose relative intellectual ability can be more or less roughly appreciated .
It would be impossible to assert any marked degree of correlation between the skull capacities of these individuals and the current appreciation of their intellectual capacities .
One of the most distinguished of Continental anthropologists has less skull capacity than 50 per i cent , of the women students of Bedford College ; one of our leading English anatomists than 25 per cent , of the same students .
There will , of course , be errors in our probable determinations , but different methods of appreciation lead to sensibly like results , and although we are dealing with skull capacity , and not brain weight , there is , we hold , in our data material enough to cause those to pause who associate relative brain weight either in the individual or the sex with relative intellectual power .
The correlation , if it exists , can hardly be large , and the true source of intellectual ability will , we are convinced , have to be sought elsewhere , in the complexity of the convolutions , in the variety and efficiency of the commissures , rather than in mere size or weight .
" Total Eclipse of the Sun , May 28 , 1900 .
Preliminary Account \ of the Observations made by the Solar Physics Observatory Eclipse Expedition and the Officers and Men of H.M.S. ' Theseus , ' at Santa Pola .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.B.S. Received June 22 , 1900.\#151 ; Read at Joint Meeting of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies , June 28 , 1900 .
The observing station selected for my party was determined upon from information supplied by the Hydrographer , Rear-Admiral Sir W. J. L. Wharton , R.N. , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Santa Pola appeared likely to meet the requirements of a man-of-war , and without such assistance as a man-of-war can render , the manipulation of long focus prismatic cameras in eclipse observations in a strange country is impracticable .
Santa Pola lies very near the central line of the eclipse , and good anchorage was available , protected from some winds .
Sir Norman Lockyer .
Before leaving England , I communicated with Professor Francisco Iniguez e Iiiiguez , Director of the Madrid Observatory , and Mr. Jasper Cumming , H.M. Vice-Consul at Alicante .
These gentlemen , together with Don Jos4 Bonmati Mas , a large landed proprietor , and father of the Mayor of Santa Pola , very kindly made all the necessary preliminary arrangements with the local authorities , who had also been instructed by the Spanish Government , after representations had been made by the Foreign Office , at the request of the Royal Society .
As a result of the Royal Society 's application to the Admiralty , H.M.S. " Theseus , " commanded by Captain V. A. Tisdall , R.N. , was told off to meet the expedition at Gibraltar , and convey the observers to Santa Pola .
The expedition consisted at first of Dr. W. J. S. Lockyer , from the Solar Physics Observatory , Mr. A. Fowler , the demonstrator in Astronomical Physics , from the Royal College of Science , and Mr. Howard Pain , who joined as a volunteer ; I subsequently received orders to accompany and take charge of it .
Mr. Pain went on in advance overland to make preliminary are rangements and to lay out the camp on a plan which had been previously arranged , while the remaining observers left England on May 11 , by the R.M.S. " Oruba , " of the Orient line .
On arriving at Gibraltar , the party at once went on board H.M.S. " Theseus , " and left for Santa Pola , which was reached just before noon the following day , May 17 .
I was glad to find that great interest had been shown in the expedition before our arrival on board , and that lectures on the work to be undertaken had already been given by the Chaplain , the Rev. G. Brooke-Robinson , M.A. Assistants were at once forthcoming for working the prismatic cameras , and also for manipulating several cameras which I had brought out to be used by the ship 's company in obtaining photographs of the corona .
Observing parties in charge of officers of the ship , to make observations along several lines , were at the same time organised .
On our arrival at Santa Pola , the following local officials came on board with Mr. Pain :\#151 ; Sns .
Francisco Bonmati Mas , Mayor of Santa Pola ; Antoine Bonmati Mas , Vice-Mayor of Santa Pola ; Jos4 Bonmati Mas , Municipal Councillor ; JosC Salinas Perez , Municipal Councillor ; Eladio Ponce de Leon , Secretary to the Mayor ; Michel Sempere , Justice of the Peace ; JosC Hernandez , Captain of the Port ; ; ; Geronimo Agnati , Administrator of Customs ; Eduard Fernandez , 1st Lieut , of Coast Guards ; Tomas Bueno , Medical Officer .
They informed us that permission had been given for landing parties from the man-of-war , and special facilities granted for landing instru- | ments and personal baggage without Custom 's examination .
The erection of the instruments , huts , and tents was commenced on | Total Eclipse of the Sun , May 1900 .
the following morning , May 18 , and by the evening of May 21 the principal instruments were reported in approximate adjustment .
Drills were begun on May 22 , and were carried on several times a day up to the day of the eclipse .
In this work the eclipse clock , which I have described in previous eclipse reports , was used .
By permission of the Captain , three of the officers of the " Theseus , " Lieuts .
Andrews , Doughty , and Pattrick , R.N. , occupied quarters on shore to superintend the work of the parties in the camp .
On board , the Chaplain gave instructions in sketching coronas and recording stars , using for this purpose a lantern which had been placed at the disposal of the expedition by the Orient Steam Navigation Company .
I The weather was very favourable for the work of the expedition , but at times the landing and embarking of parties from the ship was rendered difficult by strong sea breezes and the consequent surf .
I Both day and night the instruments were carefully guarded by a detachment of " Guardias Civiles , " told off for the purpose by the Spanish authorities .
I The groups of observers were as follows:\#151 ; LIST OF ECLIPSE PARTIES .
Timekeepers .
Lieut. F. A. Andrews , R.N. Mr. Boughey , Mid .
Mr. Lambert , Mid .
J. Wale , 2nd Yeoman Signals .
W. Webb , P.O. 1 .
Bugler Sneller , O.S. 6 .inch Prismatic Camera .
Dr. Lockyer .
S. Birley , E.R.A. J. Green , A.B. C. Fishenden , O.S. C. Willmott , O.S. A. Humphries , O.S. G. Hyatt , O.S. 20-foot Prismatic Camera .
Mr. Fowler .
W. F. Cox , Armr .
A. Whitbourne , A.B. F. Burt , A.B. A. Maskell , A.B. E. Davies , O.S. H. Cristopher , O.S. W. Harrison , Sto .
Mech. 4\gt ; -inch Equatorial .
Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. 0 .
C. Lambert , Mid .
3\-inch Equatorial .
Lieut. H. M. Doughty , R.N. A. G\gt ; N. Lane , Mid .
Long focus Coronagraph .
Mr. Pain .
T. McGowan , A.B. E. Woodland , A.B. H. Eary , A.B. W. Mann , O.S. H. Brooks , O.S. Sir Norman Lockyer .
Graham Coronagraph .
Mr. W. J. S. Perkins , Asst .
Engr .
, R.N. J. Knowles , Chief Stoker .
W. Walker , Lg .
Stoker .
De La Rue Coronagraph .
Mr. H. W. Portch , Asst .
Engr .
, R.N. H. Frost , Chief Stoker .
W. Waterfield , E.R.A. JDallmeyer Coronagraph .
Surgeon J. Martin , R.N. It .
Quint , Chief Stoker .
E. Buckingham , E.R.A. Mr. J. B. Bateman , Mid .
R.N. W. Fraser , Arm .
Crew .
It .
S. Bradbrooke , A.B. H. W. Richardson , P.O. 2 .
E. Voyle , Lg .
Shipwt .
T. Orange , Boy , 1 c. A. Mason , A.B. A. Steven , A.B. C. Paul , Boy , 1 c. Discs .
m }i Mr. J. A. .
Daniels , Torp .
Gunner , R.N. G. Fair , Armourer .
E. Gordon , S. Carp .
W. Tucker , A.B. W. Brewer , A.B. B. Salmon , Boy , 1 c. r A. May , A.B. \lt ; IT .
Bailey , A.B. 1 J , Entwistle , S. Std .
Boy .
Sketches of Corona without Discs ( on shore ) .
W. Butt , M.A.A. H. Meacher , Pte .
R.M.L.I. G. Guilliame , A.B. H. Schmidtoel , O.S. Sketches of Corona without Discs ( on board ) .
W. Baxter , A.B. J. Wheeler , Pte .
R.M.L.I. W. Butts , Pte .
R.M.L.I. E. Willis , S.B. Attendant .
C. Jacob , Pte .
R.M.L.L Observations on Stars ( on shore ) .
Mr. Bennett , Clerk .
W. Riches , L. Seaman .
A. Pontifex , A.B. W. Bosworth , A.B* H. Angus , O.S. W. Kinvett , Pte .
R.M.L.I , W. Oliver , Pte .
R.M.L.I. Observations on Stars ( on board ) .
Rev. G. B. Robinson , M.A. H. Croxon , S. Corpl .
A. Phillips , Leading Shipwt .
R. Yigus , Corpl .
R.M.L.I. E. Price , Pte .
R.M.L.I. E. Hammond , Sto .
G. Andrews , Sto .
G. Nightingale , Sto .
S. Wilson , Sto .
E. Savage , Pte .
R.M.L.I. Observations of Shadow Rands ( on shore ) .
Commander Hon. R. F. Boyle , R.N. Mr. J. G. Walsh , Mid .
R.N. Mr. T. Slator , Naval Instructor , R.N. Mr. F. C. Skinner , Mid .
R.N. Meteorological Observations ( on shore ) .
Lieut. Pattrick , R.N. Mr. G. S. Hallowes , Mid .
E.N. Total Eclipse of the Sun May 28 , 1900 .
341 Meteorological Observations ( on board ) .
G. Donnelly , Yeom .
Sig. W. Hearne , Sig. E. Gant , Lg .
Sig. J. Beach , Sig. A. Enstidge , Sig. Landscape Colours ( on shore ) .
Capt. F. Y. Whifcmarsh , R.M.L.I. Lance-Corpl .
Wade , E.M.L.I. Ship 's Steward D. Green .
W. Birkett , Writer .
Landscape Colours ( on board ) .
Fleet Paymaster A. W. ^Lskham , 3J.N .
Lieut. W. J. Frazer , R.N. Shadow Phenomena ( on shore ) .
Mr. C. Prynn , Carpr .
R.N. Shadow Phenomena ( on board ) .
Lieut. H. R-.Shipster , E.N. Photographers .
J. Knight , S.B. Steward .
B. Bulbrook , A.B. Aide-de-camp to Sir Norman Lochyery K.C.B. , F.R.S. Mr. C. C. Lambert , Mid .
3J.N .
Time Arrangements .
According to the Admiralty chart , the latitude and longitude of the place of observation are 38 ' 11 ' 20 " N. and 0 ' 33'66 ' W. respectively .
For this point , the times and position angles of contact derived from the formulae given in the ' Nautical Almanac Circular , ' No. 17 , were as follows :\#151 ; Beginning of totality , May , 28 d. 4 h. 12 m. , 51'7 s. End " " 4h .
14 m. , 10'5s .
Duration of totality ... ... ... ... ... 1 m. , 18'8s .
Position angle of first contact , 87 ' 3'5 ' from N. towards W. " " last " 93 ' 47-3 ' " " E. The experience of the Indian eclipse of 1898 suggested that the duration of totality was too long , and for the practical working during the eclipse the adopted time was 75 seconds , so that there would he no chance of spoiling the coronagraph plates by exposing them after totality .
The face of the eclipse clock was graduated accordingly .
The arrangements for securing signals at definite intervals before totality was identical with that employed in Lapland and India .
An image of the sun projected by the finder of the 6-inch two-prism prismatic camera was viewed on an adjustable screen , marked in such a way that it was easy to see when the cusps subtended angles of 90 ' VOL. LXVII .
2 .
C Sir Norman Lockyer .
and 55 ' , which occurred respectively at 16 secs , and 5 secs , before totality .
The signals " Go " at the commencement of totality , and " Over " at the end , were given by myself , from observations made with the 4-inch Cooke telescope .
Results .
Some of the photographs have not yet been developed , and the reports have not yet been received from the ship 's parties , so that only a very brief reference to the work accomplished is possible .
The Prismatic Cameras .
The discussion of the series of photographs taken with the prismatic cameras employed in the last three eclipses indicated that continued work with this form of spectroscope should be undertaken , ( 1 ) with the view of obtaining data strictly comparable with the previous photographs , and ( 2 ) that an effort should be made to extend the inquiry into comparative lengths of the various arcs .
For the first purpose it seemed desirable to repeat the Indian work with the 6-inch camera having two prisms , while for the second an instrument of longer focus was necessary .
Representations as to the importance of the latter instrument were made to the Royal Society , and ultimately the purchase of a Taylor triple lens of 6 inches aperture and 20 feet focal length was authorised .
This was received so shortly before the expedition left England , that it was only possible to make a rough trial of the instrument before it was set up at Santa Pola .
Both prismatic cameras were worked in conjunction with siderostats , calculations having shown that the position angles of contact were favourably situated after reflection .
Dr. Lockyer took charge of the two-prism instrument , and Mr. Fowler of that having a long focus , and in each case the programme of exposures was successfully performed .
The photographs which have been developed indicate the same succession of phenomena recorded in the three previous eclipses , but the recent eclipse was specially advantageous , for the reason that the chromospheric arcs at the instant of contact were of greater length .
A very complete record of the spectrum of the chromosphere at various depths has been secured with both instruments , and it seems probable that new information as to the distribution of the various vapours will be furnished by the photographs taken with the long-focus instrument .
The spectrum of the corona shows the green ring at 5303*7 , the blue ring at 4231 , and the violet ring at 3987*0 : others may possibly appear on closer examination .
All the rings are of totally different character from the chromospheric arcs , and have their greatest bright- \ Total Eclipse of the Sun , May 28 , 1900 .
ness in regions other than those where the chromospheric arcs are brightest .
As before , 3987*0 is much more uniform in brightness throughout the extent of the ring than the others ; 5303*7 is especially strong in one or two regions ; but on the whole is probably weaker than in 1898 .
The photographs show that the scale of the spectra is by no means too large for work with short exposures with a lens of 6 inches aperture .
The spectra are 7*5 inches long from D3 to K , and the diameter of the rings is 2*5 inches ; photographs taken with an exposure estimated at \#163 ; of a second are fully exposed .
The Differences between the Coronas observed at the Periods of Sun-spot Maxima and My attention was called especially to these differences , because I .
saw the minimum eclipse of 1878 , while the phenomena of that of 1871 ( maximum ) were still quite fresh in my mind .
My then published statements have been amply confirmed during the eclipses which have happened since 1878 , but certainly the strongest confirmation has been obtained during the present one , which took place two more spot periods after 1878 .
1 .
Form .
With regard to form , at the instant of totality I saw the 1878 corona over again , the wind vane appearance being as then most striking .
2 .
The Spectrum .
In connection with the eclipse of 1878 ( minimum ) , I pointed out that , whereas in 1871 ( maximum ) the spectrum of the corona viewed by small dispersion was remarkable for the brightness of the lines ; in 1878 they were practically absent , and the continuous spectrum was Temarkably brilliant .
I determined therefore to make a similar observation in this year of maximum , and , as in 1878 , used a grating first order spectrum placed near the eye .
The result was identical with that recorded in 1878 .
I saw no obvious rings or arcs , but chiefly a bright continuous spectrum .
3 .
The Minute Structure of the Inner Corona .
Lieut. Doughty , R.N. , and myself made observations on the minute structure of the corona , in order to see if any small details could be observed , and whether they were the same as those I saw so well and recorded during the eclipse of 1871 , at a period of sun-spot maximum .
\gt ; This question was specially taken up this year , as exactly two sunspot periods have elapsed since 1878 .
2 c 2 Sir Norman Lockyer .
In 1871 I used a 6-inch object glass , and distinctly observed marked delicate thread-like filaments , reminding one of the structure of the prominences , with mottling and nebulous indications here and there j some of these distinct markings were obvious enough to be seen till some minutes after totality.* This year , with a perfect 4-inch Taylor lens and a high power , not the slightest appearance of this structure was to be traced ; the corona some 2 ' or 3 ' above the chromosphere was absolutely without any detailed markings whatever .
Lieut. Doughty duplicated and confirmed these observations with a 3f Cooke .
Here , then , is established another well-marked difference between maximum and minimum coronas .
The Coronagr Four coronagraphs were employed ' of various apertures and focal lengths .
One , of 4 inches aperture and 16 feet focal length , was in charge of Mr. Howard Pain , while the others were controlled by officers of the ship .
The results obtained are very satisfactory , those taken with the long-focus instrument being especially good .
In this case the image is 1^ inches in diameter , and the definition is perfect .
The photograph taken with an exposure of 5 seconds shows a great wealth of detail in the inner corona and prominences ; the fine definition appears to be due to the fact that a Taylor photo-visual lens was employed , bringing the rays of various refrangibilities to the same focus .
A long exposure photograph , with the same instrument , is remarkable for thej perfect hardness of the moon 's edge , notwithstanding the motion during totality .
/ The three photographs secured by Asst .
Engineer Porteh , K.N. , with the De la Eve lens of 4f inches aperture , give also sharp images with much fine detail .
Sandell triple-coated plates were used with this instrument .
With the 6-inch Dallmeyer lens , two photographs on Sandell plates were obtained by Dr. Martin , R.N. , one being exposed for about half a second , and another for 50 seconds .
The longer exposure records the extensions to a greater distance| from the dark moon than any of the other photographs obtained , witW the exception of the one secured with the small-grating camera .
This last-mentioned instrument consisted of a Zeiss anastigmatic lens of 9 inches focal length , with a small Thorp grating mounted in front of it .
The exposure of the plate was 40 seconds during totality , the longest streamer in the N.E. quadrant extends to a distance of 4f | lunar diameters .
# * Solar Physics/ p. 372 .
Total Eclipse of the , May 28 , 1900 .
Discs .
' Six discs for cutting out the bright light of the inner corona were erected , with the view of enabling the observers to detect the long extensions if there should be any .
They were very carefully set up by Lieuts .
Doughty and Andrews , R.N. , and were provided with eyepieces having all necessary adjustments .
Mr. Daniels , torpedo gunner , then took charge of the party , and numerous rehearsals were given .
In the trials remarkable skill in recording delicate details was displayed .
During the eclipse , the actual observer was blindfolded for five minutes before totality .
No extensions of the nature observed by Professor Newcomb in 1878 were recorded .
Observations on the Stars Visible during Totality .
A large party for the observation of stars visible during totality was trained and organised by the Chaplain , Rev. G. Brooke-Robinson , R.N. , who was provided with a set of star charts for purposes of instruction prior to the eclipse , and another set , prepared by Dr. Lockyer , for making records during the eclipse .
Venus became visible at a very early stage of the eclipse , and during totality Mercury was a very conspicuous object near the extremity of one of the streamers , a Tauri , a and y Orionis were also recorded .
No comet or unknown body was noted .
Shadow Bands .
The Naval Instructor on H.M.S. " Theseus , " Mr. T. Slator , B.A. , undertook this branch of the eclipse work , and during the eclipse worked in conjunction with the Commander , the Hon. R. F.- Boyle .
Very complete arrangements were made for securing the orientation of the bands ( 1 ) on a horizontal plane ; ( 2 ) on a plane in the meridian ; ( 3 ) on a plane in the prime vertical .
The bands appear to have been very ill-defined , but the necessary observations were secured in planes 1 and 2 .
Meteorological Observatwns .
A regular series of observations of temperature and pressure was established three days before the eclipse , and continued until two days after ; Lieut. Pattrick , R.N. , taking charge of this branch of the work , i During the eclipse the temperature fell 5 ' C. , and the barometer also fell slightly .
The thanks of the expedition are due especially to those named in Prof. H. H. Turner and Mr. H. F. Newall .
the .
foregoing account , not only for assistance rendered , but also for their great kindness to us .
I have already , in a letter , expressed to .
the Royal Society my deep sense of the obligation they have laid u\amp ; under .
As in the case of the " Yolage " and " Melpomene , " the officers and men of the 'l Theseus not only assisted us with certain instruments , but organised crews for others , and many lines of work which it was-impossible for the observers sent out from England to attempt .
Their skill , resourcefulness , and steadiness were alike truly admirable .
Thanks are also due to the Managers of the Orient Steam Navigation Company , who conveyed the instruments to and from Gibraltar freight free .
I may add , the Civil Governor of the Province of Alicante , Sefior don Hipoldo Caras y Gomez de Andino , visited the camp to assure himself that all the assistance the Spanish authorities could give had been rendered .
" Total Solar Eclipse of 1900 ( May 28 ) .
Preliminary Report on the Observations made at Bouzareah ( in the Grounds of the Algiers Observatory ) .
" By Professor H. H. Turner , M.A. , F.R.S. , and H. F. Newall , M.A. , Sec. R.A.S. Received June 28 , \#151 ; Read at Joint ; Meeting of the Royal and Royal Astronomical Societies , June 28 , 1900 .
The Report is presented in three parts .
Part I. Origin or the Expedition and General Preparations by the Two Observers jointly ( SS 1\#151 ; 10 ) .
Part II .
Separate Report by Professor Turner .
SS 11\#151 ; 12 .
The Cameras and Ccelostat .
S 13 .
The Polariscopes .
SS 14\#151 ; 16 .
Adjustments .
SS 17\#151 ; 19 .
Programme of Observations .
SS 20 .
The Standard Squares .
S 21 .
Use of Green Screen .
S 22 .
Integral Photometer .
S 23 .
Development .
Part III .
Separate Report by Mr. New all .
S 24 .
The Four-prism Spectroscope with Slit .
S 25 .
The Photographic Camera with large Objective Grating .
S 26 .
The Polarwcopic Camera ( Savart Plates and Nicol Prism ) .
S 27 .
Atmospheric Polarisation .
S 28 .
General Observations .

