3 1881 .
] Note on the Reversal of the Spectrum of Cyanogen .
are not to be seen in the absence of nitrogen .
If this be the case , the photograph gives-undoubted evidence of the presence of nitrogen in the comet , in addition to the carbon and hydrogen shown to be there by the bright groups in the visible part of the spectrum .
On this hypothesis we must further suppose a high temperature in the comet unless the cyanogen is present ready formed .
I should state that Mr. Lockyer regards the two groups in the photograph , and the groups in the visible spectrum , to be due to the vapour of carbon at different heat-levels ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. 30 , p. 461 ) .
It is of importance to mention the strong intensity in the photograph of the lines 3883 and 3870 , as compared with the continuous spectrum , and the faint bright group beginning at 4230 .
At this part of the spectrum , therefore , the light emitted by the cometary matter exceeded by many times the reflected solar light .
I reserve for the present the theoretical suggestions which arise from the new information which the photographs have given us .
The diagram shows the two sets of bright lines and the solar spectrum .
There is also indicated in it a small increase of brightness between h and H , which was suspected in the photograph .
[ The accompanying lithograph was executed by order of the British Association for the Advancement of Science , for the illustration of the forthcoming Report for 1881 .
The use of the stone has been allowed to the Royal Society by the Council of the Association.\#151 ; G. G. Stokes , Sec. R.S. ] II .
" Note on the Reversal of the Spectrum of Cyanogen .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S- , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received July 4 , 1881 .
In the course of many observations on the reversal of lines of metallic spectra , we have frequently noticed dark shaded bands which appeared to be the reversals of bands ascribed to the oxides or chlorides of sundry metals ; more particularly we have seen them when experimenting with compounds of the alkaline earths , and we have repeatedly obtained a reversal of the green magnesium-hydrogen series ; but , until recently , we have never seen any reversal of the shaded bands of the spectrum of cyanogen , though our attention has been constantly directed to this spectrum .
Quite lately , however , we have obtained photographs which show the reversal of the violet and ultra-violet bands of this spectrum ; and the fact is perhaps of sufficient interest , especially in connexion with the question of the occur- 4 Mr. C. W. Merrifield .
Sums of the Series of the [ Nov. 17 , rence of these bands amongst tliG Fraunhofer lines , to warrant the publication of this note .
We have not yet succeeded in determining precisely the conditions under which the reversal can be produced at will .
The most complete reversals of these bands were obtained by the use of the arc of a Siemens ' machine , in a crucible of magnesia , fed with a considerable quantity of cyanide of titanium .
The photographs in this case show a very complete reversal of the five bands near L , and of the two strong bands near N , and a less complete reversal of the six bands , beginning at about wave-length 4215 .
No other metallic cyanides have given , when introduced into the crucible , any such reversal ; nor does a stream of cyanogen led in through a perforated carbon produce the effect .
Various other nitrogenous compounds have been tried , but the only one which has given us anything like the effect of the titanic cyanide is borate of ammonia .
Some photographs taken immediately after the introduction of borate of ammonia show distinctly the reversal of the group of bands near L. In one case when metallic magnesium had been put into the crucible , the photograph shows a reversal of only that part of the series which is nearest to the magnesium group , indicating that the reversal is due to the bright background supplied by the expanded magnesium lines .
There can be little doubt that the greater stability of titanic cyanide and boron nitride than of other nitrogenous compounds , has some influence upon the result ; and the difficulty in producing the reversal at will is in securing an absorbent stratum of sufficiently high temperature and at the same time a sufficiently luminous background .
The circumstances which secure the former condition almost always produce in the arc a still more intense radiation of just those rays which are absorbed , without that expansion of the lines which shows out the absorption in the case of so many metallic spectra .
The photographs are , however , conclusive evidence that it is possible to secure both conditions .
III .
" The Sums of the Series of the Reciprocals of the Prime Numbers and of their Powers .
" By G. W. Merrifield , F.R.S. Received August 8 , 1881 .
Euler has shown* that it is possible to sum the series of reciprocals of powers of the prime numbers , and he has calculated the values of these sums for the even powers .
I thought it of some interest to calculate the sums for the odd powers , and to evaluate a peculiar constant ( somewhat analogous to the Eulerian constant , \#151 ; 7=0-57721 56649 01532 86060 65 ) * " Introd .
in Anal. Infin .
, " vol. i , cap. xv , " De seriebus ex evolutione faetorum ortis , " pp. 221-252 .

