317 1871 .
] Dr- W. Huggins on a Registering Spectroscope .
II .
" On a Registering Spectroscope .
" By William Huggins , LL. D. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. Received January 14 , 1870 .
The short duration of the totality of the solar eclipse of December last , led me to seek some method by which the positions of lines observed in the spectrum of the corona might be instantly registered without removing the eye from the instrument , so as to avoid the loss of time and fatigue to the eye of reading a micrometer-head , or the distraction of the attention and other inconveniences of an illuminated scale .
After consultation with the optician Mr. Grubb , it seemed that this object could be satisfactorily accomplished by fixing in the eyepiece of the spectroscope a pointer which could be moved along the spectrum by a quick-motion screw , together with some arrangement by which the position of this pointer , when brought into coincidence with a line , could be instantly registered .
I was furnished by Mr. Grubb with an instrument fulfilling these conditions , and also with a similar instrument with some modifications by Mr. Lad , in time for the observation of the eclipse .
Unfortunately at my station at Oran , heavy clouds at the time of totality prevented their use on the corona ; but they were found so convenient for the rapid registration of spectra , that it appears probable that similar instruments may be of service for other spectrum-observations .
In these instruments the small telescope of the spectroscope is fixed , and at its focus is a pointer which can be brought rapidly upon any part of the spectrum by a screw-head outside the telescope .
The spectrum and pointer are viewed by a positive eyepiece which slides in front of the telescope , so that the part of the spectrum under observation can always be brought to the middle of the field of view .
The arm carrying the pointer is connected by a lever with a second arm , to the end of which are attached two needles , so that these move over about two inches when the pointer is made to traverse the spectrum from the red to the violet .
Under the extremity of the arm fitted with the needles is a frame containing a card , firmly held in it by two pins which pierce the card .
This frame containing the card can be moved forward so as to bring in succession five different portions of the card under the points of the needles ; on each of these portions of the card a spectrum can be registered .
The mode of using the instrument is obvious .
By means of the screw-bead at the side of the telescope , the pointer can be brought into coincidence with a line ; a finger of the other hand is then pressed upon one of the needles at the end of the arm which traverses the card , and the position of the line is instantly recorded by a minute prick on the card .
A bright line is distinguished from a dark line by pressing the finger on both needles , by which a second prick is made , immediately below the other .
In all cases the position of the line is registered by the same needle ; the second needle being used to denote that the line recorded is a bright one .
318 Mr. A. H. Garrod on the relation of the Cardiograph [ Feb. 23 , It was found that from ten to twelve Fraunhofer lines could be registered in about 15 seconds , and that , when the same lines were recorded five times in succession on the same card , no sensible difference of position could be detected between the pricks registering the same line in the several spectra .
It is obvious that , by registering the spectra of different substances on the card , a ready method is obtained of comparing the relative positions of the lines of their spectra .
Each spectroscope was furnished with a compound prism , which was made by Mr. Grubb , and gave a dispersion equal to about two prisms of dense glass with a refracting angle of 60 ' .
Postscript.\#151 ; I have just learned that in a spectroscope contrived by Professor Winlock for observing the eclipse of December 22 , 1870 , the positions of the observing-telescope are registered by marks made upon a plate of silvered copper.\#151 ; February 3 , 1870 .
February 23 , 1871 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Mutual Relations of the Apex Cardiograph and the Radial Sphygmograph Trace .
" By A. H. Garrod , of St. John^s College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Dr. Garrod .
Received January 18 , 1871 .
A desire to acquire an accurate knowledge of the relation borne by the commencing contraction of the heart to the origin of the primary rise in the pulse at the wrist , led the author to construct an instrument which has enabled him to determine , with considerable accuracy , the mutual relation of these two points , and to demonstrate one or two unexpected results , not altogether without interest .
The cardio-sphygmograph above mentioned consists of a piece of board , 10 inches long by inches broad , and about half an inch thick , along one side of which a sphygmograph can be laid , as shown in fig. 1 .
On the opposite side a spring ( a ) like that employed in the sphygmograph is attached to a moveable support ( b ) , so that its tension can be modified .
To the free end of the spring a small pad ( c ) is fixed , which is in communication with the cardiograph apparatus by means of a silk thread This latter instrument consists of a light lever ( e ) , a little over 2 inches long , connected to the board first mentioned by a frame ( f ) which is jus free from the sphygmograph when the latter is in position .
The lever , which is one of the third system , is connected on either side , close to its

