]\gt ; On circumscribing Rotating Polygons .
319 by careful considerations of the conditions of weather and of soil under which each individual set is made .
regards hygrometry the data at present obtained relate solely ro .
and to the heights of 4 and 170 feet respectively .
The mean lative humidity at these points for nine months of 1882 , is given the following table , which shows that the differences , though somebat larger in summer than at other periods , are not of mportance .
, .
" " On Curves circumscribing Rotating ] ygons with reference to the Shape of Drilled Holes By A. MALLOCK .
Communicated by Lord BAYLEIGH , , F.B.S. Received June 11 , 1883 .
It is well known that drills and other tooIs of the same class which are guided by their cutting edges tend to , or at any rate can produce holes which are not circular in section , and her , that if the tool equidistant edges , the hole which it produces , if not circular in section , ] have sides or similar arcs , the exact shape of these holes and the limits to their possible departure from circularity have not as far as I am aware been hitherto examined .
The problem consists in finding au the figures which will circum* These sides are in general very much curved , and in fact are not distinguishable without measurement when is greater than 3 ; but when the departure from the circular form is often very wide .
A good instance of may be seen in the '.holes bored in rock for blasting .
These holes are made by an iron with a shaped end , and the section of the holes is a triangle with the corners rounded off .
some position between A and C. These alternate variations of the depth of the cut at the two edges may continue indefinitely , the section of the hole varying at each revolution , but if certain conditions are fulfilled the figure produced will remain constant in character after the first revoIution .
Since is always on that side of on which the cut is deepest , and is on the same side of the perpendicular from on AB , will describe some curve round in the opposite direction to the rotation of ACB .
That is , while the drill rotates in one direction , its geometrical axis describes some curve in the opposite direction round ffie axis of the hole .
If instead of the centres and mutually displaced , one of the edges meets with an accidental obstruction , or if one of the edges is blunter than the other , the same results will be p , except that when the last meutioned cause operates the effects tend to accumulate , nnd this probably is the actual origin in most cases .
The same sort of result will occur whatever be the number of the cutting edges of the tool , , the instantaneous axis will always be on that side of the geometrical axis on which the cut is deepest , or the resistance to progress of the edge greatest , and in virtue of this the geometrical axis will rotate about the axis of the hole in a direction pposite to the motion of the tool .
This fact at once suggests a method of analysing the figures swept VOL. Mr. A. Mallock .
out by the angles of the tool .
Let be the distaIlce between and and the direction of the line joining them , then can always expressed by the following equation:\mdash ; . . .
( 1 ) and since the tool is a rigid body , its angles are displaced from the position which they would occupy were the hole circular by an amount in a direction Let ( fig. 3 ) , be adjacent angles of the tool , which is posed to be a regular polygon of sides , the paths along which they move , the centre of hole , and the path described by the centre of the polygon .
It is clear that if , . .
are to form parts of a single curve , . .
must occupy the saffie position whem the polygon has turned through that . .
occupied at first ; thus , while the polygon rotates once , its centre will move times round the centre of the hole , and hence if be the angle which makes with a fixed line passing through , and if also be measured from the same . . . . .
( 2 ) hence goes through complete cycles , while increases by ; but as revolves in a direction opposite to that of the polygon , it will go through cycles if the be measured from a line fixed in the polygon .
Let CA be this fixed line , then A goes through cycles of displacement in virtue of the first term of , and cycles in virtue of the term , while CA revolves once ; hence the symmetry of the curve , . .
will be -fold as far as it depends on ; but the only olher terms which will give symmetrical curves if present with are those for which has such values that while changes from to changes through a complete multiple of , or for hich , where is an integer , and if the symmetry of , . .
is to be complete\mdash ; that is , if each interval , , \amp ; c. , is to be composed of similar must be either or a muItiple of If the sum of the coefficients in is small compared with CA , the equation of the curve referred to its centre is approximately . . . . . .
( 3 ) , where and 1883 .
] On Curves clcumscribi , g Rotating Polyf .
323 If , however , without confining ourselves to necessarily small values of , we consider only the first term , which is always the most important in practice , the curve is a hypotrochoid havlng for its Cartesian coordinates , if and are the radii of the rolling circles , Thus we see that a hypotrochoid wibh its circles in ratios given will circumscribe an -sided polygon , the diameter of whose circumscribing circle is 2 .
In order that the rota- tion may be mechanically possible , the polygon and hypotroohoid must not cut one another at any part of the revolutioh , and this condition limits the possible value of Let ABCD , fig. 4 , be part of the polygon , and EFGH part of the hypotrochoid , then it may be shown that if a side of one figure cuts that of the other , the cutting sides will contain greatest area between them when , as at and , the adjacent angles of the polygon are equidistant from the adjacent corners of the hypotrochoid .
For the angular motion of and is a maximum when passing the middle of the side of the hypotrochoid , and a minimum when passing the corners , so that , since will leave faster than approaches , and vice , hence the area enclosed between the points , by BC and FG will diminish if the polygon rotates , and hence if BC is a tangent to FG when , the sides can never cut one another .
The distance of the middle point of the side of the polygon from its centre is , while the distance of the corresponding point of the hypotrochoid is , and equating these quantities , we get as the greatest admissible value of verse If the hypotrochoid is to be everywhere concave to the centre , must not be greater than The following table shows the values of in the two cases from to Drs. T. L. Brunton and J. T. Cash .
verse . . . . . .
25 . . . . . .
115 Figs. 5 and 6 show the hypotrochoids corresponding to the values of in the first column , and figs. 7 and 8 those in the second , for and There are some propositions relating to the form of turned surfaces which have an analogy to that considered in this paper .
These I hope to examine in a future communication .
VI .
" " Contributions to our Knowledge of the Connexion between Chemical Constitution , Physiological Action , and Antagonism By T. LAUDER BRUNTON , M.D. , F.R.S. , and J. THEODORE CASH , .
Received June 13 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) This paper is divided into several parts .
In the first the authors consider the general action of ammomum salts , and show that tho action of the ammonium is considerably modified by the acid radical with which it is combined .
All the ammonium salts affect the spinal cord , motor , and muscles , and in advanced poisoning tend to poison all those structures .
The course of poisoning varies with the salt employed .
The chloride , bromide , and iodide form a series in which a stimu.lant action on the cord is best marked in the bromide , and the paralysing action upon it and upon motor nerves most strongly in the iodide .
Motor nerves are also paralysed by the sulphate and phosphate , though less strongly than by the iodide .
The iodide tends to arrest the circulation sooner than the other salts .
Ammonium bromide appears to have a special tendency to cause coagulation of the stroma of red blood corpuscIes .
The sulphate does so to a less extent , and the phosphate and iodide have a still less effect .
In the second part the action of salts of compound ammonias was investigated .
The substances employed were ethylamine , trimethylamine , and triethylamine ; the chlorides , iodides , and sulphates of amyl

