The needles , distinguished by Nos. i and 2 in the following tables were suspended , instead of supported , and were contained within a small wooden box having a glass cover .
The centre of each was made exactly to coincide with the centre of motion of the index of a common Hadley 's quadrant , graduated to minutes as usual , the box being fixed upon the index and moving with it .
The agate cup of each needle was just allowed to touch a fine steel point of support , in order to preserve their correct centres .
No. 1 needle belonged to an azimuth compass on Capt , Kater 's construction , its lozenge shape being that figured in the Appendix to the Voyage of 1819^20 , p. cix ; except that this needle was rounded at the corners forming the extremities of its transverse diameter .
Its weight ( with the addition of mica ends increasing its length to eight inches for the purpose of more accurate observation ) was 104 grains , that of the needle alone being 50 grains .
No. 2 needle was formed of clock spring , and furnished by Mr. Christie , for some experiments to be made with it under the influence of magnets .
Its shape has been already described by that gentleman in his paper on this subject , in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1823 .
The length of this needle was 4,9 inches , but increased by mica ends to about ten inches , in which state it weighed 96 grains , that of the needle alone being 51 grains .
Both these needles were delicately suspended by a few fine threads of floss silk , from seven to eight inches in length , having no torsion , and passing up through a copper cylinder over a small brass pulley .
A leaden weight just equivalent to that of the needle was then attached to the other end of the silk , in order to adjust it so that it might barely touch the centre or point of support .
No. 3 needle , which was that of a common ship 's azimuth compass , and weighed 146 grains , was suspended like the other two , but simply contained within an air-tight box having glass ends .
A sight of card paper being fixed towards each extremity of the needle , the amount of variation was obtained , by observing the coincidence of the sights through a small telescope traversing upon an arc of ten fee radius , and consequently placed at that distance from the needle .
A vernier attached to the telescope , and moving with it , gave the reading to the nearest minute .
This needle was afterwards used exclusively for obtaining the changes in the magnetic intensity , for which it was found remarkably well adapted ; the instant of the coincidence of the two sights being easily observable through the telescope to two-tenths of a second , by means of a chronometer held to the ear .
During the absence of daylight , these observations were made by candlelight , transmitted through a sheet of oiled paper , fixed against the glass end of the box , farthest from the observer .
The observations were made at the commencement by Lieutenant Foster and Captain Parry , but were subsequently carried on in regular watches , and the needles visited every hour during four successive months , by Lieutenants Sherer and Ross , and Messieurs Crozier , Richards and Head .
When any extraordinary change , however , appeared to be going on , the needles were more closely watched ; and every phenomenon , such as the aurora borealis , meteors , clouds , the kind and degree of light , the moon 's position , and the temperature within and without , were at all times carefully noted .
In the following tables these phenomena , with the exception of the temperature , have necessarily been omitted , on account of the great length to which their insertion would have extended this communication ; but an abstract of all the particulars relative to one of the needles , No. 2 , has been made by Lieutenant Foster , and is given in continuation of this series ; diagrams exhibiting graphically the various deflections of needle No. 1 , for which we are indebted to the ingenuity of Mr. Hooper , are also subjoined .
The original register of the whole is preserved and can easily be referred to , should any of the observed phenomena , beyond those which are here given , be considered likely to have influenced the motion of the needles .
As far , however , as our own observations extended , we have reason to believe that on no occasion were the needles in the slightest degree affected , either by the aurora , meteors , or any other perceptible atmospheric phenomenon .
Soon after the observations were commenced , it was ascertained that twice in every four and twenty hours the needles moved past a certain point , which may be denominated the zero , or mean magnetic meridian ; a fact , which was first rendered clearly apparent , from the accompanying diagrams already mentioned , by which it appears that in every instance.except one , both needles every day passed the line in question .
On a single day , February 24 , the needle No. 2 did not arrive at it during its eastern motion .
The means of the times of the needle passing this zero , as deduced from four months continued observations , is , 6hi$m A. M. , and 4h 37m P. M. ; the mean time in each month being as follows : 1825 A. M. P. M. January 6hoora 4hoora February 6 304 00 March 5 so -50 ' April 7 00 -5 so Mean 6 15 4 37 To avoid the insertion of many useless figures in the tables , the resulting amount of easterly or westerly deflection on each side of the zero has been computed .
The maximum westerly variation at Port Bowen appears , from these observations , generally to have occurred between the hours of ioh A. M. and ih P. M. , the mean result of one hundred and twenty days ' observations being nh49ra A.M. The minimum westerly variation , or the greatest deflection of the north end of the needle to the eastward , took place between 8h P. M. and 2h A. M. , the mean time , deduced as above , being ioh im P. M. In a few instances the maximum deflection of the needle to the westward occurred as early as 8h A. M. , and as late as 3h P. M. ; and in like manner , the greatest deflection eastward took place at 2h and sh P. M. , on some few occasions .
In all these anomalous cases , however , it was remarked , from simultaneous observations on the times of vibration of a suspended horizontal needle , that these irregularities were evidently due to an extraordinary alteration in its intensity , which produced a deflection contrary to the regular order of the motion of the needle .
The diurnal change of direction appears , by these observations , to have been seldom less than one degree , and sometimes to have amounted to 5 , 6 , and even 7 degrees , and there can be no doubt that the changes in this amount were

