PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
January 6 , 1887 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Occurrence of Silver in Volcanic Ash from the Eruption of Cotopaxi of July 22nd and 23rd , 1885 .
" By J. W. Mallet , M.D. , F.R.S. , University of Virginia .
Received November 26 , 1886 .
A few months ago I received from Senor Julian R. Santos , of Ecuador , formerly a pupil of mine in the laboratory of this University , a specimen of volcanic ash collected at his place of residence , Bahia de Caraguez , on the coast of the Pacific , about 120 miles nearly due west from Cotopaxi .
This , the highest and among the most mighty of the active volcanoes of our globe , burst forth into eruption about 11^ p.m. on the 22nd of July , 1885 , and the ash began to fall at Bahia de Caraguez at 7 a.m. on the next day , the 23rd .
It fell there to the depth of several inches , this fact alone indicating the discharge of an enormous amount of solid matter into the atmosphere , although Senor Santos wrote to me that the unsettled condition of the country , disturbed by revolutionary movements , prevented his making extended enquiries which might have ascertained the area covered by the fall of ashes .
The specimen sent me consisted of a very finely divided powder , mobile and soft to the touch , of light brownish-grey colour .
Under the microscope it appeared to be made up of minute granules and spicules , in general with sharp , more or less splintery edges .
These were for the most part colourless and transparent , or white and translucent ; some were reddish , some dark bottle-green , some brown , some black and opaque .
Most of those clear enough to freely transmit light showed brilliant colours in a field of polarised light .
Quartz , two felspars ( one white , and one pink or reddish ) , augite , magnetite VOL. XLII .
T\gt ; On the Occurrence of Silver in Volcanic Ash .
[ Jan. 6 , ( strongly attracted , and easily removed by the end of a magnetic needle ) , and thin scales of deep red specular iron oxide were easily distinguished .
The ash on being strongly heated before the blowpipe , or even in considerable quantity in a small platinum crucible over the blast lamp , turned dark red-brown , and fused to a nearly black slag .
On being boiled in its original state with water it gave up 021 per cent , of soluble matter .
The solution gave very distinctly the reactions of chlorine , a sulphate , and sodium ; in a less marked degree the reactions of potassium .
On boiling with strong hydrochloric acid , 6*94 per cent , was dissolved , in addition to that already extracted by water ; the acid solution was deeply coloured by iron .
The specific gravity of the ash was found = 2-624 at 18 ' C. as compared with water at the same temperature .
An analysis of the material taken as a whole , i.e. , without any previous mechanical separation of its consistent minerals , and without previous digestion with water or acid , but dried at 100 ' C. , gave the following results:\#151 ; Si02 56-89 Ti02 -A-1303 19-72 \#166 ; ^e2^3 4-06 FeO 3-65 MnO MgO 1-91 CaO 5-87 Na20 5-14 KoO 1-96 Li20 Ag Cl so4 P04 HsO 0-62 99-82 Silver was first noticed after fusing as usual with mixed sodium and potassium carbonates , and dissolving in excess of hydrochloric acid , on the addition of sulphuretted hydrogen to the solution , which had been freed from silica ; the sulphur thrown down by ferric chloride present was observed to be distinctly brown , and on being filtered out and carefully burned off before the blowpipe it left a minute bead of metallic silver .
All the reagents and vessels used were scrupulously examined , but the silver could not be traced to any of them .
It was 1887 .
] On the Continuity of the Liquid and Gaseous States .
3 afterwards found that the metal could be obtained from the ash by furnace assay\#151 ; fusion with pure lead carbonate , sodium carbonate , and a little cream of tartar , and cupellation of the lead button produced ; and a comparative experiment was made , with negative result , using larger quantities of the same reagents , but omitting the volcanic ash .
It was ascertained that silver could be extracted from the ash by boiling it with a solution of ammonia , or of potassium cyanide , or of sodium thiosulphate , but the metal was not dissolved out in appreciable amount on boiling with nitric acid .
Hence , as seems most probable , it was pi'esent in the ash as silver chloride .
The fact of its being found in the solution in hydrochloric acid of the mass resulting from fusion with the alkaline carbonates , is of course easily explained by the solvent action upon silver chloride of the chlorides of sodium and potassium , and ( when such minute quantities are concerned ) of hydrochloric acid itself .
The discovery of silver in the ash in question adds for the first time this metal to the list of elementary substances observed in the materials ejected from volcanoes , and the addition derives some special interest from the fact of the ash having come from the greatest of the volcanic vents of the great argentiferous chain of the Andes .
Lead , which was found by Senor Santos himself , when a student here in 1879 , in a specimen of ash from the eruption of Cotopaxi of August 23rd , 1878 , * was sought for in the ash now reported upon , but neither it nor any other heavy metal beside silver was detectable .
Several concordant experiments proved that the silver was present to the extent oi about 1 part in 83,600 of the ash , or about two-fifths of a Iroy ounce per ton of 2240 pounds .
Small as is this proportion , it must represent a very large quantity of silver ejected during the eruption , in view of the vast masses of volcanic ash which must have been spread over such an area as is indicated by the fall at so distant a point as Bahia de Caraguez .
II , " Preliminary Note on the Continuity of the Liquid and Gaseous States of Matter .
" By William Ramsay , Ph. D. , and Sydney Young , D.Sc .
Communicated by Prof. G. G. Stokes , D , C.L. , P.R.S. Received November 30 , 1886 .
For several years past we have been engaged in an examination of the behaviour of liquids and gases through wide ranges of temperature and pressure .
The results of our experiments with ethyl alcohol have recently been published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ; ' those with acetic acid in the 'Journal ( Transactions ) of the Chemical Society ; and the Royal Society have in their hands a * ' Cliem .
News , ' Oct. 17 , 1879 ( vol. 40 , p. 186 ) .

