III .
" On the Theory of Continuous Beams .
" By JOHIN MORITIMER HIEPPEL , Mem. Inst. C.E. Communicated by Prof. W. J. MACQUORN RANKINE .
Received December 9 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) The chief object of the present communication is to remedy some acknowledged defects in the theory of the above-mentioned subject .
The principal steps by which it Ias reached its present state of development are also noticed , and may be briefly recapitulated as follows : In 1825 M. Navier investigated the conditions of a straight continuous beam resting on any number of supports .
HIis method , though perfectly correct for the assumed conditions ( which embraced most cases occurring 176 [ Jan. 27 , in practice ) , was so exceedingly intricate when the number of openings became at all large , that in such instances it was of little practical use .
In 1849 M. Clapeyron , a distinguished engineer and savant , devised a much more direct and easy means of treating such cases , though he did not at first succeed in giving to his own method all the simplicity and elegance of which it was capable .
This was first done in 1856 by M. Bertot , civil engineer , who , by effecting an elimination which had escaped Clapeyron , arrived at a remarkable equation which has been the key to all subsequent treatment of the subject .
This equation involves the bending moments over any three consecutive points of support , and is well known in France by the name of the " Theorem of the three Moments .
" In 1857 MV .
Clapeyron himself and M. Bresse , Professeur de Mecanique appliquee a l'Ecole Imperiale des Ponts et Chaussees , appear to have discovered this theorem independently of M. Bertot , and M. Bresse shortly afterwards extended it to a much greater degree of generality .
M. Bresse 's reseairches on this subject are published in the third volume of his ' Course de Mecanique appliqu6e , ' Paris , 1865 ; but they had been communicated by him to the Academy of Sciences in 1862 , and fully completed in the previous year .
M. Bresse not only contributed to the advancement of the theory , but entered largely into the best methods of its application to practice , and framed rules which have since , under an Imperial Commission , acquired the character of legislative enactments .
M. 3Belanger , Professeur de Mecanique appliquee i l'Ecole centrale , appears , about the same time as M. Bresse , to have made an independent investigation of this subject , and to have brought the theory of it to about the same stage of advancement .
Little has been since added to this theory in France , but valuable contributions to its development in reference to practice are to be found in the works of MM .
Renaudot , Albaret , Molinos et Pronnier , Colignon , and Piarron de Mondesir .
In England Professor Moseley is the first writer on mechanics who appears to have occupied himself with this subject .
In his work on s The Mechanical Principles of Engineering and Architecture , ' he gives several examples of the application of M. Navier 's method to important practical cases .
This work was published in 1843 , and no doubt furnished the groundwork for Mr. Pole 's more extended investigations .
In 1852 Mr. Pole had to examine the case of the bridge over the Trent at Torksey , involving some new conditions not treated by Moseley , but which he found the means of treating with perfect success .
About the same time Mr. Pole had to deal with the much more complex and important case of the Britannia bridge , in which , besides variation of load from one span to another , variation of section also had to be considered , and imperfect continuity over the middle pier .
These conditions were successfully imported into this method of Navier , which was , however , only known to Mr. Pole through the examples of its application given in [ Moseley 's work , and the results obtained were identical with those which would have followed from the application of the method of Clapeyron in its most improved and generalized form .
In 1858 , the present writer , being then in India , had occasion to consider the condition of a continuous girder of five spans , and finding the method of Navier unmanageable , was forced to seek for some other .
He first came upon the equation which he afterwards found had been for some years known in France as the " Theorem of the three Moments , " and afterwards extended it , so as to take in all the conditions of the Britannia bridge and to verify all Mr. Pole 's results .
In this form it was absolutely identical with the equation given by M. Belanger , and nearly so with that of M. Bresse .
The great defect in all this theory up to the present time has been that , in order to avoid an inextricable complexity , it has been necessary to consider the load in each span as uniformly distributed over it , and the moment of inertia of the section as uniform throughout each span .
In many cases these hypotheses are false , notably so in the case of the Britannia ; and the conclusions are affected by their falsity , to what extent being a matter of uncertainty , though good grounds have been shown for believing that the errors cannot attain to importance .
The method now given treats these conditions , it is hoped , rigorously ; and although the equations obtained are such as necessarily require some laborious computation to obtain numerical results , they are certainly by no means inextricable .
It is satisfactory to find that in the case of the Britannia , where these new conditions enter with much greater force than in most cases , their effect on the resulting stresses is very unimportant ; so that the inference may legitimately be drawn that in all ordinary cases the method of Bresse may be confidently applied .
It is scarcely possible in a short abstract to give an idea of an analytical investigation .
The equations obtained are of the same form as those of the previous methods , each containing , as unknown quantities , the bending moments over three consecutive supports ; but the coefficients are somewhat involved functions of the varying loads and sections .
An abbreviated functional notation has , wherever possible , been used , by means of which a certain degree of clearness and symmetry is preserved in expressions which would otherwise become inextricably complex .

