Fig : 1 : Tab : 2 : 3 24 DAMN LB KOC VW P A CFTX D I Q HY GZ 56 DCR BABA II .
A Letter to the Royal Society , from Mr. Anthony Van Leeuwenkoek , F. R. S. Concerning the Whiteness on the Tongue in Fevers , &amp;c. Delft , Octob. 18 .
1707 .
I Have been long of Opinion , that our Tongue is of such a Form , that when it is sound and of good Condition , it does not only communicate to the Body whatever is agreeable to it self , but also admits one part of the Matter that lies upon it , into the Manifold Vessels of which it is composed ; insomuch that by the Veins it 's communicated to the Heart , and serves for Nourishment to the Body , and strengthening of a well Constituted Tongue .
It so happened , that in the beginning of last September I was seized by a violent Fever , which however lasted but three days with me ; upon the Fourth day I viewed my Tongue with a Magnifying Looking-Glass , and observed , that it was all over covered with Whiteness , only about a Fingers Breadth of the Tip was of its Natural Colour ; this Whiteness is judged by most People to proceed out of the Stomach or Bowels , by the Swelling of the Guts , or else from a sharp Humour out of the Head .
Perceiving my Tongue thus all over White , I scraped off a little with a Penknife , and placed it before a Microscope , and presently judged , that those that call this White Matter in our Language Beslagenthaijt , and so publish it in their Books , are much mistaken , for that which truly bears that Name must be something from without , and not any Matter protruded from the Now that this abovemention 'd White Matter has no Analogy or Agreement with that which is coagulated upon the Tongue from without , but that it is certainly protruded out of the Tongue , appeared to me very plainly , when I viewed it with my Microscope , for I could then observe , that it was not only closely united to the Tongue , but that it was also forced out of it , just as Plants proceed from the Earth ; yea , that it extended it self into Boughs and Branches .
Now for the better understanding of the said protruded Matter from the Tongue , I placed some of it before a Microscope , and caused it to be painted , after having separated the Parts from one another , which I often found clung together .
Tab. 2 .
Fig. 1 .
ABCDEF represents one of the said small Parts which I had scraped from my Tongue ; AB shows where it was fastned to my Tongue , and CF shows how the Body of it divided it self into two Branches , described by CD and F E. I have observed several times in the aforesaid Trunk or Body of that Particle a long Fibre or Streak running perpendicularly thro ' the middle of it , which I imagined to be a sort of a Vein or Vessel from which the whole Body or Branches received their Nourishment ; but as soon as that White Matter becomes dry , one sees no more of those Fibres in it .
Fig. 2 .
GHIKLMNOPQ represents a second Particle , which I had taken from my Tongue , of which GHIQ is the Stalk or Root , and KLMNOP the six several Branches , all which were at GH united to , or rather riveted in the Tongue .
Fig. 3 .
RSTVWX was a third Particle protruded out of my Tongue , and at TX you see the place where it divided it self into two Branches , which Branches are divided by TV and X W ; and the Painter having observed at V some further sproutings out , he has described them according as they appeared to him , but I my self have observed such out Sproutings as looked like Flowers ; and whereas my Fever had left me about a day or two before I scraped off that White Matter from my Tongue , I imagined that the extreme parts of the aforesaid Matter were almost worn or rubbed off when I made that Observation .
Fig. 4 .
YZABCD was a fourth Particle of the protruded Matter from my Tongue , of which the greatest part of the Branches were , in a manner , worn or broken off , as you may see by AB C. There was so much to be observed in all these Particles which I had scraped from my Tongue , that it was impossible for any Painter to describe them ; they seemed outwardly to be Convex , and withal as transparent as Crystal ; that is to say , at the very time I took them from my Tongue and viewed them with a Microscope ; but when they were dry they did not appear so neat , which was occasioned by the Slimy or Glutinous Matter which we have always in our Mouths , and which makes these Particles cleave together .
That I might free them from the aforesaid Glutinous Matter or Spittle , I put them into a little Rain Water , and stirred it gently about , to the end that the said Matter might be diluted and united to the Water ; this being done I took some of those Particles , which by their weight had subsided to the bottom , and placed them before a Microscope .
I observed also with Wonder , how very strongly they were fastned to my Tongue when I scraped them from it , and that tho ' I had let them lie eight days in Water , they were as strong as when they were first taken off .
Now how can we conceive the Common Opinion of some Doctors and Chymists , who maintain , that this Whiteness upon the Tongue is occasioned by the ascending ing Vapours and Fumes from the Stomach ; whereas , as I imagine , that part of the Stomach which receives the Victuals is always shut , except when it discharges it self of Wind , which comes out by the Throat ; and how can the Fumes come out of the Head and descend upon the Tongue , as they also maintain , just as if our Heads were of the shape and make of the Helm or Head of a Still .
Might we not better resolve it thus ~ That our Tongues are so constituted , as to receive a few of those Juices into the Orifices of its Vessels , and that this causes the Sensation which we call Taste , and that these Juices are carried or pressed by the little Coats or Tunica 's of the small Veins that are in the Tongue , and so continued by the great Vein to the Heart ; but when we 're indisposed with a Fever , the Whiteness which at that time appears upon the Tongue is occasioned by the Blood being so thick , that it ca n't be carried ( as it ought to be ) thro ' the small Vessels , and by the Expulsion or driving back of that Moisture in the Blood , which we call Serum .
Now the Tongue being thus covered with that White Matter that is protruded out of its Vessels , is incapable of admitting any of its Juices into it , and this is the reason that at such times we have little or no Taste .
Moreover there lay about that Matter which has been described by Fig. 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , a vast Number of little Scales , with which our Mouth is all covered over within ; and the Painter having observed two such Scales that lay partly upon one another , he drew them , as you may see in Fig. 5 , between A and B , and below them there lay another single Scale , which is described by Fig. 6 .
C D. Now since we observe so many of these little Scales to fall off of their own accord from the Mouth , may we not well conclude , that in a strong Fever , such Scales receive Nourishment .
We also observed , that a great many of these Scales had a round Bubble in the middle of them , and that there was seldom in one Scale two Bubbles , as in Fig. 5 .
in that Scale which is represented by B ; I thought with my self , whether this might not be the place from whence the Scales received their Nourishment .
Fig. 6 .
Does likewise represent a Scale between C and D with a round Bubble in it .
You may remember I told you above , that I could observe none of this White Matter upon the Tip of my Tongue ; the Cause of which , perhaps was the great heat of the Liquor I then made use of ; for as soon as I found my self in a Fever , I ordered some Coffee to be made for me , and drank four Dishes of it as fast as I could one after the other , insomuch that my Lips were very sore with the heat of it the day after ; the drinking of this Coffee gave me great ease , and the next Morning I drank some Bohea Tea , as fast as ever I could , in order to put my self into a Sweat , but in vain ; now it is possible that the heat of the Coffee and the Tea had dissolved , or loosened the White Stuff upon the Tip of my Tongue , which is to be enquired into .
I have said before , that upon the fourth day of my Fever I first viewed my Tongue and the White Matter I scraped from it , which was the same Day my Fever left me ; and I imagine that about that time a great deal of the White Matter , that had been about my Tongue , was fallen off , and that had I viewed the same the second Day of my Fever , I should have seen that Matter and the Branches of it much more plainly .
In the Month of October , it was reported in my House , that there was a young Man so grievously troubled with the Thrush , that they were afraid it would have killed him , for he could scarcely draw his Breath ; having informed my self who was his Doctor , I sent to him and desired him to let me have a little of that Stuff which was taken from the Tongue of the Patient , which accordingly cordingly was brought to me two Days after one another .
This Matter , which lay upon a Paper , stuck so fast together , that it was very difficult to separate it , and the most part of it appeared as clear as any Water to our naked Eye ; having viewed it thro ' a Microscope , I saw that the clear sticking Moisture was encompassed with an exceeding great number of very small Globules , which appeared to me to be much smaller than those that make our Blood Red ; and when this White Matter was thorough dry , it appeared to be of a Green Colour , much like that Matter which we discharge by the Mouth when we catch cold , and which is commonly called Green Phlegm .
The Doctor told me , that a Day or two before , there peeled off whole Skins from the Tongue of his Patient , whereupon I asked him , Whether his Tongue was not very much swelled ?
To which he answered , It filled the whole Mouth .
I observed moreover in the said Matter , whether I viewed it wet or dry , such a great number of small Fibres , just as if it had been a thin Membrane that I had placed before the Glass .
I said to the Doctor , how much those Persons were mistaken that affirm that these Skins upon the Tongues proceed from the Vapours or fumes of the Stomach , in which the Doctor agreed with me ; but when I told him that the great thickness of the Tongue was occasioned by the want of the Blood circulating therein , whilst the Heart was continually sending up fresh Blood into the Tongue , by which means it was forced thro ' the Tunica 's of the Vessels , and turned to that Matter which was found upon the Tongue , and which we call the Trush ; and whereas that Matter which I found in my Illness upon my Tongue was nothing but the Serum of the Blood , the roason of that was , That the Protrusion of the Blood was not so strong in me , as it was in the Young Man , neither were there any Globules to be observed in it ; I say when I told the Doctor this , he seemed to differ from me at first , but afterwards he agreed with me entirely in this Opinion ; to wit , that the Matter , which was found upon the Tongue , does not proceed from Fumes and Vapours out of the Stomach , but is protruded out of the Tongue ; and added moreover , that when he scraped such like Matter from the Tongues of his Patients , in half an Hours time they were covered again with the Matter which we call the Thrush ; and further , that when the Patient being something better had scraped off the Matter upon the Tip of the Tongue somewhat too harshly , he caused his Tongue to bleed , but soon after it had done Bleeding , it was again covered with the Thrush .

