1 On the Intimate Structure of the Brain , .
509 May 23 , 1867 .
Lieut.-General SABIINE , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read':I .
" Oni the Intimate Structure of the Brain."-Second Series .
By J. IOCKHIART CLARKE , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 1 , 1867 .
( Abstract .
) Abstracts of a considerable portion of this paper have been already published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society for June 18 , 1857 , and June 20 , 1861 , under the title of " Notes of Researches on the Intimate Structure of the Brain .
" After adding several new facts , and giving further explanations on the subject of the vmedulla oblongata , the author gives a full description of the morphological changes by which the auditory and other centres are developed out of elements of the spinal cord .
The auditory centres consist of an outer and an ilnner nucleus .
The outer nucleus is developed from the grey substance of the posterior pyramid and restiform body of the medulla .
The imler nucleus Parises between the posterior pyramid ald the nucleus of the eighth cerebral nerve .
From both these nuclei the oste-rior divisionl of the auditory nerve talks its origin .
The n ; zterior division cnsists of two portios .
e pT incipal portion penetrates the medulla beneath the restiform body , and running along the outer side of the caput connuv , or grey tubercle , enters both the outer and inner nucleus .
The other portion of the nerve runs backward along the upper border of the restiform body , which it accompanies over the superior pedlaunle of the cerebelhlum to the inferior vermiform process .
The outer auditory nucleus , consisting of the grey substance of the posterior pyramid and restiforin body , is ultimately thrown backAw-ard into the cerebellum , part of it arching over the fourth ventricle to the opposite side , while the rest extiends outward to the corpus dentatum of the cerebellum .
It would not be possible to give an abstract of the -elumerous details of structure and the complic ; ated connexions of differen ' piart described in the paper .
The following fawts , however , may be mentioned .
The roots of the facital no , lre are shown i to have a very remarkable course and very complicated connexions with surrounding parts .
On reaching thefatsciczeuls teres they bend downward in the form of a loop , the lower arm of which is connected with the motor nucleus of the trigeminus and with the upper olivary body , as well as with their own special nuclei .
The longituilinal portion of this loop forms the column which Stilling mistook for what he calls the " constant root of the trigeminus , " and which Schroeder van der Ieolk mistool for one of the stria ?
medullares .
The upper olivary bodies ( which were first pointed out by the author in 1857 , and subsequently described by Schroeder van der 1Kolk ) and the trapezium are further investigated in a comparison between those of man , the orang outang , and different orders of mamnmals .
The structure of the entire medulla oblongata in the monkey is likewise compared with that of man .
The paper concludes with the physiological and pathological application of its contents .

