234 Miay 20 , 1858 .
The LORD WROTTESLEY , President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " On the Resistance of Tubes to collapse .
" By WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN , Esq. , C.E. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 21 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The object kept in view by the author of these researches was to determine the law which governed the resistance of cylindrical tubes to external uniform pressure .
The anomalous condition in which these constructions have been placed in reference to the internal flues of boilers , and the frequent fatal accidents from explosions produced by collapse , have imperatively called for inquiry into the causes which have led to these unfortunate results .
Ever since the first introduction of the steam engine as improved by Watt , and especially since the increased demand for its construction , and its application to almost every branch of industry and every system of transit , the consideration of all circumstances which may affect its economy and security , has become of vast public importance .
During the more early period which followed its first introduction , the form of boiler and its powers of resistance to strain , were considerations of much less importance than at present .
Then the force of steam , or the pressure under which it was generated , was only about one-eighth , and in some cases less than a sixteenth of what it now is .
Besides , the fertile genius of Watt had provided against accident , by a self-acting apparatus , which regulated not only the pressure , but the supply of water to the boiler .
Since that time a total change has taken place in the construction and working of the steam engine ; and boilers which were perfectly safe at 7 lbs. upon the square inch , are absolutely inadequate for generating steam at 40 lbs. to 50 lbs. on the square inch .
This being the case , it follows that every precaution becomes urgently necessary which may serve to increase the strength , and equalise the resisting power of vessels containing 235 an element of such potent influence , and yet so essential to the comforts and enjoyments of civilized life .
Entertaining these views , the author goes on to say , that hitherto it has been considered an axiom in boiler engineering , that a cylindrical tube , placed in the position of an internal flue , is equally strong in every part when subjected to uniform external pressure ; the length not affecting the strength of a flue so placed .
This rule is , however , only true when applied to tubes of infinitely great length , and it is very far from true when the length of the tube does not exceed certain limits , and when the ends are retained in form by being riveted to the boiler , and thus prevented from yielding to external pressure .
These facts were fully demonstrated by the experiments related in the Paper , which , for obvious reasons were conducted under circumstances as nearly as possible analogous to those now in actual operation upon a larger scale .
With this view , a large and powerful cylinder , 8 feet long , and 2 feet in diameter , was prepared for the reception of the tubes ; and being acted upon by hydraulic pressure , collapse was produced , and the results recorded , as fully explained in the Paper .
It will suffice here to state the more important conclusions derived from the investigation , which fell under the following heads : viz.--lst , the strength of tubes as affected by length ; 2nd , the strength of tubes as affected by diameter ; lastly , the strength of tubes as affected by thickness of metal .
1 .
On the first head , the strength as afected by length , the results are conclusive and interesting .
Within the limits of from 1 foot 6 inches to about 10 feet in length , it is found that the strength of tubes similar in every other respect , and supported at the ends by rigid rings , varies inversely as the length , as may be seen from the following results obtained with 4-inch tubes .
Resistance of 4-inch tubes to collapse .
Diameter , Thickness of Plates .
Length .
Collapsing Pressure .
Inches .
Inches .
Inches .
lbs. per square inch .
4 ... ... . .
-043 ... ... . .
19 ... ... 137 4 ... ... .
-043 ... ... .
60 ... . .
43 4 ... ... .
043 ... ... . .
40 ... . .
65 The remarkable differences in the resisting pressure of the above similar tubes will be at once apparent , and it will be found by calcu236 lation that they follow the law of inverse proportion , the same as those of larger dimensions , the strengths diminishing as the lengths are increased .
The same law of resistance is maintained in 6-inch tubes , giving , for a tube 30 inches long , 55 lbs. , and for one 59 inches long only 32lbs .
on the square inch , as the pressure of collapse .
Again , in 8inch tubes we have , in a long series of experiments , 32 lbs. per square inch in a tube 39 inches long , and 39 lbs. in one 30 inches long .
In the same manner all the experiments on tubes of 10 and 12 , and up to 18 inches in diameter may be compared , and the law of resistance is in like manner shown to hold true in every case .
Discrepancies to a certain extent do certainly occur ; but they are comparatively small , and , as they appear to follow no law , are evidently to be accounted for from defects in the construction of the tubes inseparable from such a mode of research .
2 .
The strength as affected by the diameter .
A precisely similar law is found to hold in relation to the diameter .
Tubes similar in other respects vary in their resistance to collapse inversely as their diameters ; and with a view of testing this law , we may place the calculated pressure beside that derived from experiment , as under:'Resistance of tubes to collapse 5 feet long .
Diameter .
By Experiment .
By Calculation .
Variation .
Inches .
lbs. per square inch .
lbs. per square inch .
lbs. 4 ... ... 43'0 6 ... . .
32-0 ... .
286 ... .
-3-4 8 28 ... . .
+07 0 10 ... ... 16 0 ... ... 172 ... 12 12 ... ... 12-5 ... ... 14-3 ... .
+ 18 The above variations are slight when compared with the resisting powers of the tubes ; they are doubtless caused by the varying rigidity of the iron , or by defects in the cylindrical form .
Similar results follow in the experiments on tubes 2 feet 6 inches long ; and although some slight variations occur , they are nevertheless not more than might have been anticipated within the ordinary limits of error .
3 .
The strength of tubes as affected by thickness .
In these experiments it is found that the tubes vary in strength according to a certain power in the thickness ; the index of which , 237 taken from the mean of the experiments , is 2 19 , or rather higher than the square .
Combining the above laws into a general expression , we have , as the formula for the strength of tubes subjected to a uniform external force , k2.19 P-C x L-XD , LxD where P is the collapsing pressure , k the thickness of the plates , L the length of the tube , which should not be less than 1'5 , or greater than 10 feet ; D the diameter , and Ca constant to be determined by the experiments .
For tubes of greater length than those above specified , a variable quantity , dependent upon the length , must be introduced ; and the value of this has yet to be determined .
For ordinary practical calculations the following formula will probably , however , afford the needful accuracy:k2 P=806,300 x Thus , for example , take a tube or boiler-flue 10 feet long , 2 feet diameter , and composed of plates ?
inch thick ; and the collapsing pressure will be P=806,300x '25 -2101 bs .
10x24 per square inch or nearly so .
Some experiments have also been made upon elliptical tubes ; and the results have been most conclusive as to the weakness of such f ?
rms in resisting external pressure .
No tubes in use for boilers should ever be made of that form .
With regard to cylindrical internal flues , the experiments indicate the necessity of an important modification of the ordinary mode of construction , in order to render them secure at the high pressures to which they are now almost constantly subjected .
If we take a boiler of the ordinary construction , 30 feet long , 7 feet in diameter , and with one or more flues 3 feet diameter , it will be found that the outer shell or envelope is from three to three and a half times as strong in resisting an internal force as the cylindrical flues which have to resist the same external force .
This being the case , it is evident that the excess of strength in those parts of the vessel subjected to tension , is 238 actually of no use so long as the elements of weakness are present in the other parts subjected to compression .
To remedy these defects , it is proposed to rivet strong rings of angle iron at intervals along the flue-thus practically reducing its length , or in other words increasing its strength to a uniformity with that of the exterior shell .
This alteration in the existing mode of construction is so simple , and yet so effective , that its adoption may be confidently recommended to the attention of all those interested in the construction of vessels so important to the success of our manufacturing system , and yet fraught with such potent elements of disaster when unscientifically constructed or improperly managed .
II .
" On some Remarkable Relations which obtain among the Roots of the Four Squares into which a Number may be divided , as compared with the corresponding Roots of certain other Numbers .
" By the Rt. Hon. Sir FREDERICK POLLOCK , F.R.S. , Lord Chief Baron .
Received April 26 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The first property of numbers mentioned in this paper is best illustrated by an example13s = 169 152 225 .
These odd numbers may be divided into 4 squares , and the roots may be so arranged that they will have this relation to each other : the middle roots will be the same , and the exterior roots will be , the one 2 more , the other 2 less than the corresponding roots of the other .
Putting the roots below the number and comparing them , the result is obvious .
169 225 0,3,4,12 -2,3,4,14 -2,4,7,10 -4,4,7,12 --4,5,8,8 -6,5,8,10 -6,4,9,6 -8,4,9,8 Each of the numbers may be divided into 4 squares in 4 different ways with this result , that the two middle roots of each are the same ; and as to the exterior roots they differ by 2 , the one being 2 more

