]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
Drnx , Chemical Study of the Phosphoric Acid and Potash Contents of the Wheat Soils of Broadbalk Rotllamsbed .
Phil. Trans. , I } , vol. 194 , 1901 , pp. Phosphoric cid and Potash in Soils ; availability for plant food , as influenced by various manurial and .ropping conditions .
DxEB , Bernard .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 194 , 1901 , pp. 235-290 .
Potash and Phosphori.c Acid in Soils ; availability for plant food , as influenced by varuous manurial and cropping conditions .
DYER , Bernard .
Phil. Irans .
, , vol. 194 , 1901 , pp. 236-290 .
SoXls ( Wheat ) , Rothamsted , Phosphoric Acid and Contents of .
DIER , Bernard .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 194 , 1901 , pp. 235-290 .
[ 235 ] VI .
of the and J'otash Confof the of DYER , D. Sc. , .
I. J. , F. R. Received Noveml ) Novcmber 1900 .
ONTENTS .
INTRODUCTION Summarised history of 1nuring Crop-yields of Plots in this tion . . .
237 General Observations as to Soil .and Irrcgulitritics ) tics i to Representative Sampling . . . . . .
237 General Bearing of the Results of the ation 241 PHOSPHORIC ACID RESULTS . . . . . .
24.3 Comparison of Plots nured with ) ( or ) ) thosc not so Average Ratio of Phosphoric Acid of Phosphated to of Soils 248 Average of Citric-aeid-soluble Phospboric Acid of Phosphnted to of Nonphosphated Soils . . . . .
Probable Limits of Sufficiency or Dcficiency in Soils 260 Results from unples f various Depths in different 251 Plot 3 ( nnmanured ) . . . . .
Plot 4 ( unma1lnred since 1852 ) . . . . .
Plots ( Ammonium only ) 254 Plots 3 , and compared . . . . .
Plots nnred with Phosphntcs\mdash ; Nos. 7 , 13 , 14 , 12 , 11 , Effoct of Alkaline Salts on the Solubility of Phosphoric in the Soil 262 The mged Plots . . . . .
Phosphoric Acid in Drainage Waters . . . .
267 Summary General Conclusions to Phosphoric Acid . . . .
209 Comparison of Plots nured with Potassium Salts ( or with ) ) thosc not so nured . . . . .
27 Average of -soluble in Potash-nlannred PIots to that in other Plots . . . . . . . . . .
274 Average Ratio of Citric-acid-soluble Potash in nured Plots to that in other Plots 274 Limit denoting Potash-deficio1lcy in Soil 2.3 DP B. DYER ON A CHEMICAL STUDy PHOSPHORIC ACID AND POTASH ontinuc l Page Plot 3 ( mmanured ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
275 Plots 3 and 4 compared . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
276 Plots 3 and ( Ammonium Salts ) . . . . . . . . . . . .
277 Plots and .
278 Plots nnd 11 ( Ammonium Snlts without and with ) . . . . . . . . .
279 Plots 3 , , and 11 compared . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
280 Plots 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 7 , and 5 ( Hydrochloric Acid results ) . . . . . . . . . .
281 Do .
do .
Citric Acid results videncc of the action of Sodium and Magnesium Salts Solvents of Potash . . . . .
284 The mged Plots and . . . . . . . . .
286 in Drtinagc Water ; analyses by the late Dr. A. VOELCKER ; loss of Potash by drain generally slight , but very apprcciable on Dunged Plot and on Plot manured with in absencc of Nibrogen as . . . . .
288 mmary { Gencral Conclusions to Potash . . . . . . . .
289 INTRODUCTION .
1894 the author contributed to the 'Journal of the Chemical Society ' ' Trans. , ' March , 1894 ) a paper on " " The Determination of Available Mineral Plant Food in Soils in which the use of a 1 per cent. solution of citric acid was proposed as a means of approximately differentiating by means of chemical analysis between the total and the probably available phosphoric acid and potash in soils .
The reasolB leading up to the tentative adoption of this solution , together with a summary of previous literature on the subject , are given in the original paper , and it need , therefore , now only be said that the method was the result of an attempt to imitate , in the solvent used , the acidity of root-sap , based on a preliminary examination of the root acidity of 100 specimens of flowering plants representing some 20 natural orders .
In order to test the proposed method it was applied to 22 samples of soil drawn from the various plots in Hoos Field , Rothamsted , on which barley under very various manurial conditions had been continuously grown for over forty years .
The samples were placed at the author 's disposal by the kindness of Sir JOHN LAWES and Sir HENRY GILBERT .
The results of this investigation , which are fully set forth in the paper referred to , were of sufficient interest to lead to the undertaking of a similar but much more extended examination of the soils of the Rothamsted wheat plots in Broadbalk Field .
These plots have been continuously under wheat now for considerably more than fifty years .
The manurial history of each plot and its yearly yield of grain and straw are all on record , and periodical analyses of the ashes of each year 's crop from most of the plots have been completed sufficiently to allow of an estimate of the yearly removal of both phosphoric acid and potash .
Furthermore , the soil of each plot was sampled in 1865 and in 1881 , as well as in 1893 , the three sets of samples POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
representing not only the surface soil ( first 9 inches ) , but also the second and third depths , each to the extent of 9 inches .
JOHN LAWS and Sir HENRY ( on behalf of the LAWES ' Agricultural Trust Committee ) kindly placed these yaluable samples at the author 's disposal for the determination of the total phosphoric acid and of the potash soluble in strong mineral acid , but more particularly for the further investigation of the citric acid process by ascertaining the proportions of these constituents existing in the various soils at various periods of their history and at various depths , in such a condition as to yield themselves to this weak solvent .
It was considered that a correlation of such results with the accurately known history of the plots , on both debit and credit side , for so many years , could scarcely fail to be of scientific interest , and might be of practical value .
The results of this work are now recorded .
arised History of the Plots .
It will be convenient to give in the first place a tabular summary of the history of of the plots ) resented by the samples referred to , including the yield per acre of wheat and straw for the forty-two years ending in 1893 , and also for the six years ending in 1894 , and the estimated quantities of phospboric acid and potash per acre added in manure and removed in crops during fifty years , 1844 to 1893 ( see p. 238 ) .
Obser vations as to Soil Subsoil and Difficulties to Representative The data in this table suggest many directions in which the examination of the mineral contents of the various soils at various depths might be expected to yield interesting results , and in the main such expectation has not been disappointed .
It is true that there are occasional anomalies or discrepancies , but this is not altogether Kable , for in the first case it is obviously difficult , despite the care taken at Itothamsted in the task of periodical soil , to obtain soil saluples representative , not in a merely qualitative , but in an accurately quantitative sense , of the plots from which they are drawn .
The plots , as a rule , are half an acre in extent , being subdivided into two " " hnds\ldquo ; \mdash ; each of which , however , in certain cases , is treated as a separate plot .
The samples examined were ayerages of four samples from each plot , two being taken from each half or " " land\ldquo ; \mdash ; except in the cases of the " " land\ldquo ; plots , , 3 , 4 , , and , on each of which three samples were drawn , and of the ' ' single land\ldquo ; plots and , on each of which four samples were drawn .
The area of soil taken in each separate sampling is 1 square foot for the first inches , and a $ stiu)ated from analyses of separate samples of each year 's grain and straw from plot .
Applied prior to 1852 .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
quarter of a square for the second and third 9 inches .
The actual area reprented by the samples is therefore in most cases less than of the actual area of the plot represented , in the case of the first 9 inches or surface soil , and less than of the area represented in the case of the second and third 9 inches .
In the case of single land plots already mentioned the fractions are larger , rising in the case of and to nearly of the area of the plot in the case of the surface soil , and to about in the case of the second and third depths .
The Rothamsted soil contains a considerable proportion of stones .
The first 9 inches of soil in Broadbalk field contains on the average something like 14 per cent. of stones , removable by a inch sieve , the second 9 inches something like 12 per cent. , and the third depth something like 7 per cent. The most careful sampling cannot be relied on nsure an accurate representation of both stones and soil in each sample , and it is therefore found necessary to eliminate the stones and estimate , from the average weighings of the various samples , weight of fine soil per acre .
Much minute care has been spent by Sir JOHN LAWS and Sir GILBERT in forming these estimates of acreage weights of fine soil in the various depths , and the estimates are probably on the average as substantially fair as it has been possible to make them .
But it is obvious that when the contents of an acre of soil have to be calculated from the ] yses of samples , the error in the estimated weight of fine soil per acre for any individual plot may well affect the calculation .
Then , apart from the probability that no sample is entirely representative of the plots from which it is drawn , it is not easy to deal with the actual samples , consisting as they do of a mixture of clay , fine and coarse sand , and gravel , so accurately as to ensure that the small portion ultimately analysed shall quite fairly represent the bulk sample ; while , even beyond this difficulty , we have to face the fact that even the best analytical manipulation involves some experimental error .
When 10 grammes of soil are used for a determination , say , of horic acid , and the quantity found is calculated out to lbs. per acre in a depth of 9 inches , the actual error of experiment has to be multiplied by some such figure as 120,000,000 .
Thus a difference of 001 gramme ( or 01 per cent. ) represents , in round numbers , .
per acre in 9 inches of soil ; and even gramme , working on 10 grammes of soil ( or 00 ] per cent. ) affects an acreage estimate in 9 inches of soil to the extent of .
Of course the multiplication of error is less in those cases in which larger quantities of soil can be used .
But at the best , the chances of error incidental to sampling , to analysis , and to acreage computation of the results , are sufficient to explain some of the anomalies that will be met with .
For example , when the various samples drawn from some of the individual plots at three different periods ( 1865 , 1881 , and 1893 ) are compared , allowing for the influences of intermediate cropping and manuring , differences will be found which are only to be explained on the ground that one or other of the set of samples could not have been satisfactorily ntative , in a " " mineral\ldquo ; sense at any rate , of its plot , showing that ) plot itself is ) minerally uniform .
Seeing how difficult it is to find complete mity in the soil of any field , even within half an acre , this is not remal.kable .
It must furthermore be noted here that the 1865 and 1881 samples from the chemitnured plots consisting of two " " lands\ldquo ; were drawn from one " " land\ldquo ; or half plot only , the two halves being in former years kept distinct owing to certain minor differences of manurial treatment in their earlier history .
Now , however , the two qnds have in most cases ceased to be regarded as separate plots , and it was considered better in 1893 to draw the samples from both halves or lands ; but as the 1865 and 1881 samples examined represented only one lalld they are not quite strictly comparable with ] the 1893 samples , except in the case of the single land plots and and This , no doubt , may in itself account , in view of what has been already said , for some of the irregularities observed in comparing samples of the different years .
As would be expected , the lack of uniformity of composition is indicated less in the surface soils than in the subsoils .
The surface soil is subjected to the mixing operations of the plough , the harrow , and the hoe , and though these implements do not effect any considerable rence of soil from one end of a plot to another , and so do away with original differences of composition of spots remote from one another within the plot area , they ] , continued for fifty odd years , must effect snch gradual mixing up of the surface soil as to render it every year less likely that a sample drawn from any arbitrarily chosen spot should differ very much from one drawn at any neighbouring spot on the same plot .
With the second and third depths it is otherwise .
No mixing of the subsoil goes on beyond that cted by worms or other natural agencies .
Furthermore , the excavations made in Broadbalk Field for the purpose of obtaining deep subsoil saml)\mdash ; for sampling is carried out to a considerably greater depth than that of the 27 inches of soil which form he subject of the present study\mdash ; show that the subsoil both in its composition and in its depth as it gradually passes into the subjacent chalk is very variable .
For this reason , no doubt , some of the results obtained by the mineral analyses of the subsoil present anomalies which make it necessary to regard the results in a qualitative rather than in a quantitative sense .
Another point of difficulty is that , in comparing the composition of one plot with that of another , it is impossible , quite apart from local variations within each plot , to know how far the average surface soil of any one plot may have originally differed from that of all or any of its neighbours at the time of the commencement of the experiments .
For purposes of any attempt at quantitative comparisons it is necessary to implicitly assume some such original uniformity , thus introducing yet another possible source of error .
This too must be borne in mind in regarding the results of the attempts that have been made to compare a theoretical debtor and creditor account for the phosphoric acid of some of the plots with the quantity , condition , and distribution of the " " assets\ldquo ; actually discovered by analysis .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
Apart from natural or accidental inequalities of soil , it is scarcely necessary to point out in advance the many factors which might be expected to affect the distribution and condition of mineral plant food in soils so diversely manured as those with which we have to deal .
It is not merely the quantity , nature , and condition of the manure materials added , and those of the elements removed by cropping , that are to be taken into account , but also the indirect effects of the liberal feeding or starvation of the crops as regards any one or more of the elements necessary to their growth .
For upon this must largely depend their root development and the area in which they seek their food .
The roots of wheat penetrate deeply , and no doubt they bring up from the lower subsoil plant food , of which some must be left to accumulate in their de'bris ( roots and stubble ) in the upper subsoil and surface soil .
No doubt the general of luxuriance of any crop , and the plenitude or scarcity of any one or more constituents of food in the surface soil , connote some corresponding condition or habit of root growth which in the course of fifty years must affect not only the accumulation of root residuum , but also its relative distribution in the different layers of the soil .
This consideration , however , while complicating the task of comparing soil with soil , adds to the interest to be derived from a patient study of the analytical results in connection with the field records .
General Bearing of the Results of the Before proceeding to a detailed account of the work it may be well to give briefly some idea of the general outcome of the results .
It will , then , be found that the differences between the quantities of total phosphoric acid existing in the soils of the different plots , unmanured and variously manured , correspond fairly well with the history of the plots ; but that , as in the case of the barley soils , in the absence of a knowledge of such history , the differences in phosphoric acid percentage would not suffice to give any indication of the great differences in fertility really attributable to the phosphatic condition of the soils .
It will , however , be found that the relative proportions of phosphoric acid soluble in dilute citric acid solution do afford , on the whole , a striking index to the relative fertility of the soils as influenced by their phosphatic condition .
Even in the subsoils , in which the natural irregu]arities and variations of the soil are such that the total percentage of phosphoric acid lacks significance , the citric acid results will be frequently seen to show striking and consistent differences , and these will be found to be of interest when studied in connection with the problems of root range and subsoil feeding which will be hereafter discussed iu examining the results of the individual plots .
With regard to potash , it will be seen that the percentage extracted from the soil by hydrochloric acid in the case of such soils as these\mdash ; which contain a great abundance of potash in m-ineral varies with the exact method of V0L .
CXC1 extraction , and leads to results which are of very little utility , having regard to the purpose for which a soil analysis is ordinarily required .
The quantity of potash extracted by dilute citric acid solution , however , will be found , as in the case of phosphoric acid , to show variations which appear to be consistent in regard both to the actual fertility of the various soils and to the supply or non-supply of potash in the fertilisers used .
Where there has been a liberal supply of manurial phosphoric acid to the soil , in excess of the demands of the plants , it will be found that the greater proportion of the unconsumed phosphoric acid , though originally water-soluble , has accumulated in the surface or first 9 inches of the soil , though in the case of dung there is a very considerable descent into the two layers of subsoil examined , namely , the second and third depths of 9 inches .
Potassium , sodium , and magnesium salts will be seen to have exerted a distinct influence in the retention of the phosphoric acid in a less fixed and presumably more available condition than that in which we find it in the soils of the plots on which the use of superphosphate has not been accompanied by the application of these salts ; and it will be also apparent that where these salts have been used in addition to superphosphate , without nitrogen ( full supply of phosphoric acid and limited utilisation by the plant owing to lack of nitrogen ) , there is evidence that the salts have caused a very tangible descent of acid into the second and even the third 9 inches .
The greatest accumulation of unused manurial potash , whether applied as dung or as potassium salts , is also found in the surface soil ; but a large proportion is found in the citric-acid-soluble condition in the second and even the third 9 inches , especially in the dunged plots .
In spite of the large surface accumulation , the examination of the subsoils by means of dilute citric acid solution appears to show that , even in a soil containing so much clay as that of Rothamsted , potash is far more migratory than phosphoric acid , and descends much lower into the subsoil .
The addition of sodium and magnesium sulphates to potassium sulphate , in presence of phosphates , seems to have exercised a distinct influence in retaining potash in a citric-acid-soluble and presumably available condition , the apparent tendency of a portion of the potash to pass into a stable form of combination with the soil being diminished .
It is also found that , even where no potassium salts are used , sodium and magnesium salts , in presence of phosphates and nitrogen , have exercised a marked influence in increasing the proportion of citric-acid-soluble potash , in the soil in all the depths examined .
This accords well with the fact that , although no potassium salts have been applied to these plots for fifty years , their crops are larger , and contain a larger quantity of potash per acre than those grown on the plot manured with superphosphate and ammonium salts alone .
The soils of certain of th plots which , for the greater part of the experimental POTASH IN WHEAT OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
period , had been manured in exactly the same way , will be seen to show , when examined by the dilute citric acid method , differences which can be traced to variations in manurial treatment more than forty years previously .
With these prefatory observations we may proceed to consider the results , taking them in two separate sections , viz. , those relating respectively to the phosphoric acid and to the potash contents of the soil .
PHOSPHORIC ACID RESULTS .
It will , perhaps , be most convenient at first to record the whole of the phosphoric acid ures , and subsequently to examine them in groups arranged according to the various points of view from which they appear to demand consideration .
The total phosphoric acid was in each case determined in 10 grammes of the dried soil by ignition and extraction with mineral acid .
Duplicate determinations have in all cases been made , one with nitric acid only as a solvent , the other with hydrochloric acid\mdash ; the chlorine being eliminated from the solution ( after removal of the silica ) by repeated evaporation with nitric acid .
The phosphoric acid was in each case determined by HEHNER'S modification of the molybdic acid process , and in cases in which the duplicate determinations were not considered to be sufficiently close , further determinations were made to see which result was the more nearly accurate .
citric acid results were obtained by treating a large quantity of soil ( usually 200 grammes ) with 1 per cent. citric acid solution , in the proportions of 1 litre of solvent to 100 grammes of soil , the soil being kept in the solution for seven days with frequent shaking .
A quantity of solution representing 50 grammes of soil was taken for the determination of the phosphoric acid .
The solution was evaporated to dryness , ignited , and the residue digested in strong hydrochloric acid , latter being subsequently expelled with nitric acid prior to determination of the phosphoric acid by the molybdic process .
At least two determinations were made in every case .
The following table shows the percentages of total phosphoric acid and phosphoric acid in all of the samples examined , and the same results calculated into weights per acre .
For these latter calculations the weights adopted for fine dry soil per acre were as follows:\mdash ; *Nitric acid must not be used for extraction ; nitrie acid completely extracts the phosphoric acid from ignited soil , but fails to it from the ferruginous aluminous ash left on incineration of the citric extract . .
B. DYER ON A CHEMICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND 1st 9 inches .
Lbs .
For Plots 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , , 11 , 12 , 13 , and 14 in each year 2,592,621 Plot , 1893 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,510 , 185 , 1865 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2,478,780 , , , , , 1893 2,333,891 2nd 9 inches , For all plots in each year . . . . . . . . .
inches .
For all plots in each year . . . . . .
2,791,501 SOILS FR0M BROADBALK FIELD , amples collected in 1865 , 1881 , and 1893 . .
Acid POTASH IN WHEAT BROADBALK FIELD , FlELD , ?
of Plots Manured with Phosphates ?
with those not so For the purpose of this comparison , which ( outside of the special features of interest afforded by the relations of the various plots to each other ) has a widely applicable interest as affecting the general question of the methods of soil analysis and of the interpretation of their results , it will be sufficient to consider the figures in a quasi-qualitative sense , having at the same time regard to the manurial history and crop yields of the plots ; and , for the moment , it will be most convenient to confine our attention to the 1893 samples of the surface soil or first 9 inches for it DR. B. ON A CHEMICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND is in this depth that the variations in phosphoric acid are mainly found , the greater part of the unused phosphates applied to a soil containing so much clay as the Rothamsted loams being evidently mainly retained in the surface soil , though , as we shall hereafter see , some portion does , under some conditions , find its way into the subsoil .
But as long as we are merely regarding the figures from a general or qualitative point of view , and having in mind merely the bearing of analytical results on the question of the relative fertility of soils , we may very well , for the moment , neglect the lower depths .
following table relating to the surface soil samples of 1893 shows the percentages of total and citric-soluble phosphoric acid in each separate plot , and the average yield of grain and straw for six recent years ' to 1894 , the last named being the season following the soil sampling ) 1893 Samples .
These results may be conde.nsed by averaging the four soils which have been wholly without phosphatic manure since 1850 ; and also the five soils continuously receiving superphosphate in conjunction with nitrogen .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS O BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
1893 Samples .
We have thus reduced the plots to four classes .
The first group is fering from phosphatic starvation , aggravated , in two of the four plots comprising it , by a free supply of ammonium salts .
The average yield has dropped to a little over 15 bushels of wheat per acre , and less than 12 .
of straw .
In the next group of five plots superphosphate has been freely and continuously supplied , as well as nitrogen in the form of ammonium salts ; while on four out of the five plots of this group " " alkaline\ldquo ; salts ( potassium , sodium , and magnesium salts , together or separately ) have been likewise applied annual . .
Here the average yield of wheat is nearly double that of the former group , while the straw is more than two and a quarter times as great .
Then we have the plot which has received continuously an abundance of phosphatic and other mineral manure , but no nitrogen .
Its yield is now poorer on the average than even the first group , for it is suffering from nitrogen starvation\mdash ; shown even more strongly in the low straw yield than in the low yield of grain .
The yield of both grain and straw , though less than the average yield of the first group , is , nevertheless , better than that of the unmanured plots 3 and 4 included in it , which are suffering from both nitrogen and mineral starvation .
But its yield of grain is only half that of the group of soils supplied annually with nitrogen as wel ] as minerals , and its yield of straw is not much more than one-third .
Since it has received practically the same supply of phosphatic manure per acre as this group , we should ( apart from the information derived from analyses of the crops ) expect to find an additional accumulation of phosphates in this plot over and above that found in group 2 .
Then we have the rmyard manure plots , the one dunged liberally for fifty years leading way with a yield well above that of any of the other groups , both as regards grain and straw , and the other subjected to this liberal treatment for nine years only , but still , in virtue of its comparatively newly acquired fertility , giving a batter yield than the average of the chemically-treated plots , though not so good a yield as the completely manured Plot 13 .
The differences in phosphoric acid that one would be led to expect from the aforesaid considerations are qualitatively apparent in the figures for total phoric acid .
Thus , the second group shows gre.any more phosphoric acid than the first group .
Again , on the other hand , it shows less than Plot 5 .
Intermediate is the long-dunged plot , while the plot more recently brought under dung treatment is intermediate between the 1st and 2nd group .
But these rences in total phosphoric acid , significant as they clearly are , in soils from the same field , would convey , apart from priori knowledge of their origin and of their circumstances , no such information as to suggest the profound differences really existing in the phosphatic condition of the soils .
of Total Phosphoric Acid of to that of hosphated Soils .
To make this more clear the figures are best reduced to a simple proportion , taking the average quantity of phosphoric acid in the first group as unity .
We then have :\mdash ; Ratio of total phosphoric acid to that of plots receiving no phosphates .
Four plots No phosphates . . . . .
Five , , Phosphates and nitrogen , with and without alkaline salts . . . .
One plot osphates and alkaline salts only : 1 One , , Dung 50 years . . . . .
One , , Dung 9 years . . . . .
The four plots in the first group contain on the average over 3000 lbs. of phosphoric acid per acre in the first 9 inches of soil , to say nothing of further C000 lbs. in the subjacent 18 inches .
This is equivalent to nearly 3 tons of phosphate of lime per acre in the top soil , with 6 tons lying below , well within reach of the plant in its later stages of growth .
In face of this enormous quantity of total phosphoric acid the wheat crop , which , under the most favourable circumstances , does not need more ( and usually needs less ) than some 30 lbs. of phosphoric acid per acre , is unable on these plots to do more than eke out a half-starved existence , even when nitrogen is freely supplied .
The history of the crops clearly indicates that , of the total phosphates present in the soils of these plots , only a small proportion are in a form in which they POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
can be utilised .
Even in ordinary farming it is a familiar fact that , on soils containing a good deal more phosphoric acid than this , a few cwts .
of superphosphate per acre will often make the difference between a full crop of roots and one that is all but a .
This being so it is evident that such ratios as those just given for total phosphoric acid would have little significance if we wished to compare soils from different fields , or to judge of their relative mineral fertility , or to forecast the probable advantage of applying phosphatic manure or the economy of withholding it .
Average Ratio of Phosphoric Acid of Phosphated to that of NonSoils .
If , on the other hand , we take the phosphoric acid dissolved by a 1 psr cent. solution of citric acid we find differences of an altogether different character ; for , while the ratios for total phosphoric acid between phosphatically manured and hosphati cally unmanured plots were all comprised within a ratio of 2 : 1 , we find the citric acid soluble atios , as will be seen from the following table , to show approximately such numbers as 4 : 1 , 5 : 1 , and nearly 8 : 1 .
Ratio of phosphoric acid soluble in 1 per cent. citric acid solntio1l , to that of plots no phosphntes .
Four plots No phosphates . . . . .
Five , , Phosphates and nitrogen , with and without alkaline salts . . . .
One plot Phosphates and alkaline salts only One , , Dung years . . . . .
One , , Dung 9 years . . . . .
: 1 Clearly the percentage of citric-acid-soluble pbosphoric acid gives us overwhelmingly clearer qualitative information as to the condition of the soils than any that could be arrived at from a study of the mere total percentages , apart , as aforesaid , from priori topographical and historical knowledge .
Probable Limits of Deficiency Sufficiin Soils .
It will have been noticed that in only one case , on the phosphatically unmanured plots , does the phosphoric acid ) in citric acid reach per cent. of the surface soil , the average number for these four plots being per cent , , corresI ) onding to a little oyer .
per acre .
This figure corresponds almost exactly with the mean figure obtained for the soils of the eight phosphatically starved barley plots from Hoos Field during the investigation already referred to ( see paper in 'Journal of the Chemical Society , ' 1894 ) , as a result of which the author contented himself with drawing the tentative conclusion that , when a soil is found by analysis to contain as CXC1V DR. B. DYER ON A MICAL STUDy OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND little as about 01 per cent. of phosphoric acid soluble in a 1 per cent. solution itric acid , used as described , it would be justifiab ] ( as far as cereals are concerned ) to assume that it stands in immediate need of phosphatic manure .
That conclusion , therefore , appears to be well maintained by the new results obtained from the wheat soils .
How far we may go in the other direction in venturing to fix a limit which shall indicate ( when such is the case ) that the supply of phosphatic manure is unnecessary is a more difficult question to decide .
The soils of the various superphosphate-manured wheat plots in Broadbalk Field , like those of the corresponding barley plots in Hoos Field , have been abundantly or over-abundantly supplied , and would probably grow undiminished crops for some years to come if the armual supply of phosphatic manure ceased , Ilitrogen ( and other materials ) being supplied as usual .
Those included in our series average from 04 to 05 per cent. of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid\mdash ; almost identically the averages found for the various corresponding barley soils .
That this is indicative of superabundance of phosphates is evident from the fact that another plot ( not analytically examined ) receiving the same dressing of mineral manures , but receiving half as much again of nitrogen .
ammonium salts per acre ) has consistently yielded considerably larger crops .
We seem thus in a position to say that the limit of phosphatic sufficiency , for cereal crops , is somewhere below per cent. of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid , while as little as about per cent. indicates phosphatic starvation .
The plot 2 , continuously dunged for 50 years , gives per cent. , and is probably saturated with mineral constituents of plant food .
Its yield is inferior to that of the most liberally manured chemical plot of the field ( not represented in our table ) , owing , it may be supposed , to an insufficient annual supply of nitrogen in a rapidly available form .
Plot 2 A has been dunged for over nine years .
Previously , for nearly thirty-five years , it was unmanured , except for partial dressings of alkaline sulphates .
Its yield is about equal to the average of the chemically manured plots included in our table , though inferior to the best of them .
It contains per cent. of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid .
From various considerations it appears probable that the lower yield of plot 2 , as compared with the much longer dunged plot 2 , is rather due to a deficiency in the yearly supply of available nitrogen than to deficiency in the present supply of mineral .
If this were the case our limit indicative of phosphatic sufficiency would be reduced from to 03 per cent. of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid .
This is , perhaps , as far as the results of the present enquiry carry us in this particular direction .
But it must not be forgotten that the crops in relation to which the results have been considered , both in this and in the earlier investigation , are both cereals ; and it is quite possible that , for root crops , for instance , a higher minimum limit would be found to indicate phosphatic hunger .
OTASH IN WHEAT SOiLS OF OADBA FIELD , ROTHAMSTOD .
of Resulfs obtained from taken at various Deptl , s of Plot and in different Years .
We now proceed to an aspect of the results that is more complicated and more difficult to interpret .
Some of the difficulties and complications that beset us have been already alluded to in introducing the subject , but one that has not been alluded to must be here pointed out , , that the 1865 samples and the 1881 samples were respectively twenty-eight and twelve years old when this investigation was taken in hand .
As far as the total percentage of phosphoric acid is concerned , the of the soil clearly makes no difference .
But when the citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid is considered , it is important to bear in nind that , while the numbers for the 1893 soils represent the citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid obtained from the samples while yet fresh , the numbers obtained for the lS65 and 1881 samples do not tell us what was the citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in 1865 in 1881 , but only how much remains soluble after the dry soils have been kept stored in the laboratory through all the intervening years .
Seeing that the soil is a highly complex mass , containing a quantity of silicates and of more or less free basic oxides , with a relatively minute quantity of salts , there is no knowing what chemical interchanges may have en place in the course of time .
Certainly by no means the whole of the surplus phosphoric acid supplied to the soil remains in a citric-acid-soluble condition ; some of it reverts into some less soluble form .
How far such change follows rapidly its application , or how far it is the work of time , we cannot very well tell .
The numbers obtained for the earlier samples , therefore , must be regarded cautiously , in view of the fact that they are not strictly comparable with the numbers for the 1893 samples , which were obtained while the samples were yet fresh .
Plot 3 .
This plot has had no manure whatever since the beginning of the experiments in 1844 .
Its yield from 1852 to 1893 averaged bushels of wheat and cwts .
of straw per .
From 1889 to 1894 the average was bushels of wheat and cwts .
of straw .
The quantity of phosphoric acid removed in the crops during the fifty years , estimated from the periodical analyses of the ashes of the crops , is as follows , .
:\mdash ; From 1844 to 1844 to 1881 , 376 , , 1844 to 1893 , 467 , , The analyses of the surface soil samples of 1865 , 1881 , and 1893 , show a progreffiive diminution of total phosphoric acid ; but the diminution shown is not in proportion to the removal , being considerably greater .
In the second and third depths the variations in total acid are so great as to be plainly due to natural DR. B. DYER A CHEMICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID ANY ) ularity in the subsoils sampled .
Such irregularities of either soil or subsoil , however , would obably have less effect on the citric-acid-soluble constituents .
We do not , however , find in this case a regularly gressive loss , though it is to be recollected that the determinations in the earlier samples were made , not at the time of , but recently .
The acid in the samples taken in the three different ears was found to be as follows :\mdash ; PLOT 3.\mdash ; Pbosphoric Acid dissolved by 1 cent. Citric Acid Solution .
Lbs .
per acre .
econd 9 inches .
78 First 9 inches Third 9 inches 34 The total difference in the nutnbers for the whole 27 inches between 1865 and is 77 lbs. per acre , which is nearly two-thirds of the quantity ( 127 lbs. ) estimated to have been actually removed by the crops .
During the next period , however , from 1881 .
to 1893 , we find , in the whole 27 inches , an increased quantity of citricacid-soluble phosphoric acid , whereas the crops actually remoyed .
per acre of phosphoric acid .
Practically , in the surface soil , the quantity of citric-acidsoluble phosphoric acid would seem to have become stationary , while that in the subsoil has increased .
Comparin the 1893 samples with those of 1865 , there is a loss of .
of citricacid-soluble oric acid in the surface soil , a gain of .
in the 2nd depth , and a gain of 25 lbs. in the 3rd depth .
It is to be remembered that in 1865 the soil had already been for over twenty years unmanured , and its average cropping for the twenty years had then become reduced to less than 16 bushels of wheat per acre .
The exhaustion from which it was at that time suffering , however , was mainly lack of available nitrogen , for Plot , manured only with ammonium salts for most of the time , was an average crop as great again .
That Plot 3 was suffering also from lack of " " mineral\ldquo ; food there is , of course , no doubt .
But during the last thirty years the available mineral as well as the available nitrogen of the soil must have been much more seyerely taxed ; and while this would readily explain the diminution of citric-soluble phosphoric acid between 1865 and 1881 , or 1865 and 1893 , in the surface soil , we should expect to find also a tion in the and third depths , whereas we actually find an increase .
A possible explanation that suggests itself is that , as the surface soil has grown more exhausted , POTASH IN SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , the roots of the wheat have taken to deeper feeding , and ve left root residue in the subsoil in the latel years .
An increased quantity of such remains would include an increased quantity of acid in an easily soluble form .
At all events it is only the sul.face soil that shows impoverishment in citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid between 1865 and 1893 ; and this impoverishment appears to have ceased since 1881 .
In the second and depths the hown in 1881 has been since succeeded by gain .
Even this impoverished soil now contains in the inches over .
acre of tot phosphoric acid , most of which ( as is amply evideuced by the of other plots ) is , for present purposes , useless as plant food .
Plot 4 .
Since 1852 , i. e. , for -two years up to the time of the last samIylin , this plot , like Plot 3 , has been unmanured .
But prior to 1852 it was unually dessed with bone-ash superphosphate and amnonium sulphate .
For all practical purposes it is now almost as starved out as Plot 3 , though , when the yields of the two are compared in detail , it is found that , in virtue of its liberal minel.al treatment more than years earlier , Plot 4 has yielded a slightly bettel average ) Plot 3 , bushels of grain per acre as against the bushels of No. difference still nearly maintained , the yield 1889 to bushel better than that of Plot .
The average yield of straw for forty years has also been slightly heavier .
It is of interest to see if this slight but still persistent difference in fertility , dependent upon treatment forty years , would to be accompanied by any difference analytically apparent in the mineral contents of the soil , when compared with Plot 3 ; but only the 1893 were examined .
Plot 3 is estimated to have lost in cropping in fifty years .
of phosphoric acid .
Plot 4 has yielded in the same time , but received in earlier years 506 lbs. in manure .
Hence , the soil of Plot 4 should contain 445 lbs. .
acre lnole phosphoric acid than that of Plot 3 .
DR. B. DYER ON A CHEMJCAL STUDy OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND For reasons already discussed not much stress is to be laid on the 2nd and 3rd depths , as regards total osphoric acid , when differences so relatively fine as this are concerned .
But it is to be noted that about one-third of the estimated excess is found in the total acid in the surface soil , and that there is still a tangible , 58 lbs. per acre , between the citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid contents of the surface soils , seeming to show that the mineral resources of the surface soil have been less severely strained .
This 58 lbs. is 40 per cent. of the ' ' total\ldquo ; diHerence actually found between the two surface soils .
The citric-acidsoluble phosphoric acid in the subsoil is , however , less , and the numbers are more like those found for the 1865 sam ples of Plot 3 , indicating possibly ( see observations on Plot 3 ) that crops have left less root residue in the lower depths in the less starved soil .
Reducing the numbers the surface soils to unit ratio , we find the ratio for total acid in the two surface soils 3 and 4 is as 1 : , while for citricacid-soluble phosphoric acid it is as 1 : Qualitatively , therefore , a distinct difference is indicated in phosphatic fertility , due to differences in manul.ing more than forty years eal.lier .
Plots 10 nonium Salis only .
Plot 10 has received during nearly the whole of its history 400 lbs. per annum of ammonium salts , with no mineral manures at all since 1850 .
The plot is divided into two " " lands A and , treated as separate plots .
Plot received a dressing of mineral manure , including 82 lbs. of phosphoric acid , in 1844 , but none since .
Plot received mineral dressings in 1844 , 1848 and 1850 , including of phosphoric acid .
The effect of the extra mineral dressings on Plot is apparent down to the present time , as will be seem from the following records .
Samples of the soil representing in 1865 , 1881 and 1893 , have been examined , and samples enting 1 in 1881 and 1893 .
The samples representing the 2nd and 3rd depths are evidently too irregular to have any precise significance , as far as regards total phosphoric acid , though they are important as regards citricsoluble contents .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
The following tables show the quantities of phosphoric acid per acre calculated from the analyses , the differerlces found on comparison , and the actual losses estimated from the known additions and crop removals .
Plots and Total Phosphoric Acid ( lbs. per ) .
inch es Citric Acid soluble Phosphoric Acid ( lbs. per acre ) .
Here we find both in 1881 and in 1893 that the total phosphoric acid found in the surface soil in the two plots corresponds fairly closely with the estimated difference .
In 1881 the estimated difference accords very closely with the difference found in citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in the first 9 inches , but in 1893 the citric-acid-soluble difference in the surface soils is no longer found , the two surface soils being alike .
But two-thirds of the estimated excess is found in the second and third depths .
Although the differences in citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid for the whole DR. B. ] ) ON A ICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND 27 inches so nearly correspond with the estimated excess of phosphoric acid per acre , it will be seen that the citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in , after decreasing greatly between 1865 and 1881 , seems since to have risen , especially in the lower depths ; and that that in , during the latter period , having decreased largely in ) surface soil , has risen in the subsoil to almost the same extent .
Each plot between 1881 and 189.3 yielded in its crops nearly 109 lbs. per acre of phosphoric acid lbs. , and lbs a loss which is approximately indicated in the total phosphoric acid of the surface soil .
This loss is not , however , indicated in the citric-acid-soluble figures for Plot .
On Plot 10 rather less than half the loss is seen in the citric-soluble for the first depth , but it is made up for by the increase in the subsoil .
Both surface soils , in fact , have sunk to the same low level , in citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid , as the continuously unmanured Plot 3 , or slightly below it , the quantity in being distinctly lower than that in Plot 3 in the second depth , while is slightly higher .
All three soils would seem to have reached the stage at which the surface maintain a fairly constant lminimum of citric-soluble phosphoric acid , probably dependent mainly on the annual decay of the crop residues , , roots and stubble ; while the quantity in the subsoil , during recent years , been probably reinforced by an increase of deep rootgrowth , as the roots have to extend their feeding area\mdash ; not merely to obtain phosphoric acid , but in the case of Plot 3 to get nitrogen , and in the case of both .3 and 10 to get potash and other minerals .
Plot 3 , and The following tables show the diminutions of phosphoric acid\mdash ; total and citricacid-soluble\mdash ; as indicated in the samples taken at the three periods , side by side with the diminutions per acre estimated from manurial additions and the weight and composition of the crops .
Loss \mdash ; or Gain in Total Phosphoric Acid , 1st 9 inches ( lbs. per acre ) .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
Loss or Gain in Citric-acid-soluble Phosphoric Acid ( lb. per acre ) .
In the case , then , of Plot 3 the samples , even of the surface soils , of the various years\mdash ; presumably owing to natural irregularities\mdash ; do not show quantities of total phosphoric acid quantitatively corresponding to the removals for each period , though the differences are in the direction of progressive diminution .
In the case of the difference found between the 1865 and 1883 samples ( and hence between those of 1865 and 1893 ) is also too great ; but the difference between the 1881 and 1893 samples corresponds almost quantitatively with the estimated loss , as does also the rence found between the corresponding samples of Plot When the citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid results are similarly regarded we find , in comparing the 1865 and 1881 samples , that in the case of Plot 3 60 per cent. of the estimated loss is represented by the diminution of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in the first 18 inches , and in the case of Plot over 85 per cent. Between 1881 and 1893 , however , it is only in that the store of citric-acidsoluble phosphoric acid shows diminution , Plots 3 and in all three depths , itnd even Plot in its lower depths , showing , despite continued crop losses , a small but distinct increase .
This has already been commented upon , and it is to be remembered that our comparisons only deal with samples taken during the latter half of the history of the plot .
Unfortunately we have no samples of the soil drawn in 1843 to VOL. CXCIV.\mdash ; B. 2 DR. B. DYER ON A CHEMICAL STUDy OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND compare with those of 1865 and later , and do not know what was the initial quantity of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in either soil or subsoils .
manured with .
So far we have examined the results of only the plots not manured with phosphates .
We now turn to the interesting series of plots which have been fifty years continuously dressed with superphosphate ( cwts .
psr acre annually ) .
For the mors prsciss details of the manuring of each of these plots the reader is referred to p. 238 .
Briefly , they may be thus summarised:\mdash ; Manuring .
Plot 7 .
Ammonium salts , Phosphates , Potassium , Sodium , and Magnesium salts .
13 .
, , , , , , and Potassium salts .
, , 14 .
, , , , , , and Magnesium salts .
12 .
, , , , , , and Sodium salts .
11 .
, , , , and Phosphates .
5 .
Phosphates , Potassium , Sodium , and Magnesium salts .
In the first eight years prior to 1852 the treatment was somewhat irregular in the case of some of the plots .
For instance , Plots 14 and 12 received some dressing of potassium salts , and Plot 11 a dressing of rape cake .
But since 1852 the treatment has been regular .
The quantity of ammonium salts is 400 lbs. per annum .
This quantity , as is shown by comparison with another plot receiving 600 lbs. ammonium salts yearly , and the same minerals , is insufficient to produce the maximum crop that the soil will afford .
Hence it is evident the phosphatic dressing annually supplied is more than sufficient to keep pace with the nitrogenous supply of the series now under consideration , and that the differences between the productivity of these plots ( except 5 ) are due to the influence or absence of the various salts other than phosphates and ammonium salts .
The annual supply of phosphoric acid being known , and the annual removal being calculable from the weight of the produce and from the periodical ash analyses of that of each separate plot , we are able to calculate the accumulation of phosphoric acid per acre on each plot .
We have now to see how far the calculated accumulations are found to be actually represented in the various soils at various periods and in various depths .
Briefly , it may be said that the surface soils in their varying proportions of total phosphoric acid are substantially in accord with expectation .
In order to compare the accumulation of phosphoric acid found with that expected it is necessary to take POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
some fixed plot as a standard .
The plot that naturally suggests itself is the unmanured Plot 3 .
If the loss of phosphoric acid by cropping on this plot , during each period , is added to the calculated accumulation on each of the other plots , we get the calculated excess of phosphoric acid per acre in each of these plots over and above the quantity still left in Plot 3 .
These calculations are necessarily based on the assumption that all the plots originally contained the same quantity of phosphoric acid per acre .
This may or may not be an approximately true assumption for the first 9 inches of soil\mdash ; but the inequalities in the samples from the lower depths render it improbable that there is very much regularity in the subsoil distribution , and make quantitative comparisons or conclusions as to accumulation or diminution in the second and third depths of the various plots impracticable as far as regards total phosphoric acid .
With citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid the case is different .
The following table shows the calculated excess of phosphoric acid per acre in each plot ( as compared with Plot 3 ) ; the excess of total phosphoric acid ( as compared with Plot 3 ) actually found in the first 9 inches ; and the excess or deficiency of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid ( again as compared with Plot 3 ) in the three depths of soil respectively , and in the tota127 inches comprised by them .
The results are given for the three periods of 22 , 38 , and 50 years which had elapsed between the beginning of the experiments and the respective dates of sampling .
A study of this table shows that the greater part of the calculated excess of phosphoric acid per acre is found in the surface soil .
In the 1865 samples from 76 to 96 per oent .
of the calculated accumulation is found in the first 9 inches ; in the 1885 samples , from 66 to 89 per cent. , and in the 1893 samples ffom 78 to 91 per cent. It would appear that in the course of years some of the phosphoric acid has descended lower\mdash ; but at the same time the reader may be again reminded that the accumulations are calculated on the supposition that the soils were all originally alike in phosphoric acid contents , and further , that most of the deficit between the calculated accumulations and those actually found in the surface soil are comprised within a difference equal to only 01 per cent. on the soil .
Nevertheless , as the rence is always in the direction of deficiency , it seems probable that on the whole it is attributable to descent .
Unfortunately the natural variations in total phosphoric acid in the subsoils are tco great to enable us to verify subsoil accumulation .
DR. B. DYER ON CHEMICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND Plots 7 , 13 , 14 , 12 , 11 and 5 .
Plot .
from known aEstimated excess ofand r found.sisphosphoric axcess oacreover Pcreacid scidof .
After 22 years ( 1844-1865 ) .
After 38 years ( 1844-1881 ) .
Aftcr 50 years ( 1844-1893 ) .
Broadly speaking , the results of the analyses show beyond doubt that the unused phosphates , though applied in the soluble form , are mainly retained near the surface .
A more interesting question , however , is , as to the form in which the excess is to be found .
Of the total phosphates added to the soil , probably nine-tenths would be in a condition originally soluble in weak citric acid ; but the unused portion even of the originally soluble phosphate would enter into more or less firm combination with the bases of the soil , as shown by the retention of its main bulk in the surface soil .
It is , however , a matter of great interest to see how much of the accumulated quantity is to be still found in the condition of ready solubility in weak citric acid and how it is distributed as regards depth .
Of the quantity found a part will be due , no doubt , to root and stubble residue , but in these plots the main portion , in the surface soil , may be taken as due to unappropriated manure .
POTASH IN SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
If we take the figures of the last tables , in which throughout the figures of the unmanured plot No. 3 are deducted , so as to show only the excess found , it will be seen that in the 1865 mples the first 9 inches of soil showed that from 35 to 3.9 of the calculated total excess of phosphoric acid existed therein in the citric-acidsoluble form .
In the 1881 samples the proportion of calculated excess so found was from 32 to 40 per cent. , and in 1893 from 31 to 36 per cent. for the corresponding plots , and 48 and 50 per cent. for the two other plots not sampled in the earlier years .
In the second depths of 9 inches , however , at none of the periods do we find more citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid than in the totally unmanured Plot 3 .
In fact , we find actually less in every instance but one .
In the third depths , too , there is a slight excess , on the whole , in the 1865 samples ; and in the 1893 samples an excess only in three cases , and in only two of these is the excess a fairly tangible one .
Now it has already been seen that there is reason to suppose that there has been a descent of manurial phosphoric acid below the first 9 inches .
Why is practical]y none of it found there , in four at least of the six plots , in a citric-soluble condition ?
And , further , why is there on the other halld , notwithstanding the downward trans- mission of phosphates , an actual deficiency of phosphoric acid in a presumably available condition The explanation that suggests itself is , that while much of such phosphoric acid as has gone down may well have reverted into an insoluble condition , there has , as compared with the state of things on the unmanured plot , been a much more vigorous plant-growth on these plots , manured with both nitrogen and phosphates ( and some of them with alkalies also ) , with the effect that the roots have fed more vigorously in the second and third depths of the soil , producing a greater strain on the phosphoric acid resources of the subsoil , notwithstanding the abundance of phosphatic food above .
Although the total percentages of phosphoric acid in the subsoil samples are not to be regarded ( for reasons already discussed ) with much confidence , whether comparing plot with plot , or period with period , it may nevertheless be noted that in the third depths\mdash ; 19 to 27 inches\mdash ; the total phosphoric acid for the three separate periods is found to diminish from period to period in the case of the Plots 11 , 12 , 13 and 14 , manured with phosphates and nitrogen , there being only one among these twelve subsoil samples that breaks the otherwise regular gradation .
This seems to suggest that any phosphates which have descended below the first 9 inches have not travelled as far as the third depths , but that the crops have been feeding in these lower depths and diminishing the store of phosphoric acid therein .
But having regard to the obvious irregularities of composition of some of the other subsoils , it may be well not to dwell too strongly on the significance of the certainly striking diminution of the phosphoric acid shown from period to period in the lower subsoil samples of these plots .
Effect of oil the Solubility of Phosphoric Acid in the Soil .
It will have been seen that two of the six phosphate manured plots differ notably from the others in the subsoil contents of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid .
These are Plots 5 and 7 .
These two plots alone , in addition to phosphoric acid , have had persistently supplied to them potassium , sodium , and magnesium salts ( 400 lbs. per annum in the aggregate ) .
To three of the other four plots one or other of these salts has been ) , but only to these two have three salts been given .
One of the two ( Plot 7 ) has received ammonium salts also in the same quantities as Plots 11 to 14 .
The other ( Plot 5 ) has received the same full phosphatic and mineral saline dressing , but without ammonium salts .
Plot 5 , getting no nitrogen , and yielding in consequence an annual average crop not very greatly exceeding that of the unmanured soil , has naturally accumulated a far larger quantity of phosphoric acid , nearly .
more per acre being found by analysis in the first 9 inches than in the average of the plots receiving both ammonium salts and mineral manures .
As would be expected , there is also a much larger accumulation of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid , and the proportion of citric-acidsoluble to total accumulation is greater than in the average of these other plots .
Further , in both the second and third depths we find a tangible excess of citric-acidsoluble phosphoric acid beyond that in the unmanured plot , showing that the available phosphoric acid in the subsoil has been in excess of the demands of the crops .
That this is not wholly due to the supply of a elatively large abundance of phosphoric acid without , but also to another cause , appears on comparison with the results found in the case of Plot 7 , which in addition to a precisely similar liberal supply of phosphates and other saline minerals , has received also ammonium salts .
Plot 7 has yielded , in virtue of the full supply of potassium , sodium and magnesium salts , in addition to phosphates and ammonium salts , a persistently larger yield of both wheat and straw than any of its companions .
Consequently , its output of phosphates has been greater , and its accumulation less .
Instead , however , of being poorer in " " \ldquo ; phosphoric acid , it is now richer to the extent of some hundreds of pounds per acre than its companions which received either less alkaline salts or none .
It is also , as regards citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid , appreciably richer than the said plots in the second and third depths , though not to the same extent as Plot 5 .
It seems that the full supply of potassium , sodium and magnesium salts has either exerted a solvent action on the natural store of otherwise unavailable phosphoric acid in the soil , or , which appears more probable , that the manurial phosphates have entered into combination with the saline bases , and been retained in a less insoluble condition than where these have been absent or ] in quantity .
Plot 11 , which has received phosphates and ammonium salts only , and has yielded smaller crops and accumulated more phosphates than Plots 12 , 13 and 14 , shows less POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid than any of them .
Next comes Plot 12 , which has receiyed lbs. per nnum of sodium sulphate , and which , though accumulating less phosphoric acid , is nevertheless appreciably richer in citric-acidsoluble .
Next is Plot 14 , accumulating almost the same phosphoric acid as Plot 12 , but getting .
per annum of gnesium sulphate , and showing , in the surface soil , .
more of phosphoric acid , though less in the ) soil .
Next come Plots 13 and 14 , getting respectively .
of potassium sulphate and of magnesium sulphate per annum .
These have accumulated respectively less and 16 lbs. more of phosphoric acid per acre than Plot 12 , but are respectively .
and .
richer in in the first 9 inches .
The following figures show the proportion borne by the excess of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid over Plot 3 ( both in the first 9 inches and in the whole 27 inches ) to the calculated accumulated excess over Plot.3 .
1893 Samples .
onium shosphates , phosAmmonium phosAmmonium sphosAmmonium ssosodium , agnesiumdium atsphates atsphates aodium stsphates o\ldquo ; \ldquo ; It appears that the action of sodium sulphate ( .
per annum ) in maintaining the phosphate in an easily soluble condition has been somewhat less than that of magnesium sulphate ( 280 lbs. per an num ) , and that this again has had less effect than potassium sulphate ( .
per annum ) .
But the addition to the .
of potassium sulphate of , and 100 lbs. sodium sulphate , has greatly affected the condition of the hosphoric acid in the surface soil , and has appreciably affected it in the subsoil .
The Plots and .
Plot , it will be remembered , has yearly received since 1843 a dressing of 14 tons per acre of farmyard manure .
Plot was unmanured from 1849 to 1883 , except that a portion of it received lkaline salts .
Since 1883 it has received the same treatment as Plot , 14 tons of dung per annum .
The former plot has yielded on the average , for fifty years , over bushels of wheat and .
of straw per acre , a better yield than that of any of the other plots already considered , though inferior to that of another plot ( No. 8 ) already alluded to , which , in addition to a full dressing of mineral manures , has received .
of ammonium salts per annum .
During the last six years of the period of fifty years which we are considering , Plot yielded bushels of grain per annum and .
of straw , while Plot 7 ammonium salts , with full minerals ) averaged only bushels of wheat and cwts .
of straw .
During the same six years Plot averaged bushels of wheat and .
of straw .
Clearly , therefore , Plot has reached , as would be expected , a state of high fertility , while Plot , though , at the time of the last soil sampling , it had for nine years received the same treatment as , was , nevertheless , far behind it in fertility , the previous forty years of dung still telling very markedly on the latter plot .
It is much more difficult to estimate the yearly addition of phosphoric acid to the dunged plots than to estimate it in the case of the chemically manured plots ; for the phosphatic manures are of fairly definite and uniform composition , while dung is necessarily variable and is very difficult to sample in such a way as to get an analysis , even for one yearly application , which may be assumed to fairly represent the 14 tons applied .
The estimate that can be made is therefore at the best to be regarded as only an approximation , the degree of which is unknown .
Sir HENRY GILBEIIT considers that on the whole it may be fairly estimated that the dung applied contains per cent. of phosphoric acid , and since this small percentage represents in fifty years .
per acre , it is clear that there is room in the estimate for considerable error .
If the estimate of were too high or too low as compared with the real average percentage in a material of so indefinite and so fluctuating a composition as farmyard manure , the error of estimate on the fifty years would amount to nearly .
This must be borne in mind in the quantitative consideration of the analytical results .
In the following table the estimate of per cent. is taken for the phosphoric acid in the dun Plot 3 ( continually unmanured ) is again taken as a standard , the sum of the estimated loss of phosphoric acid per acre on Plot 3 and of the estimated gain Plot the estimated of phosphoric acid per acre in the latter plot .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
Plot ( Dunged for Fifty Years ) .
years ( Regarding first the total phosphoric acid , it is evident that if the estimates of accumulations are approximately correct , a very much larger quantity of the phosphoric acid , supplied in the form of dung , must have descended into the subsoil than we have seen to be the case on the plots manured with superphosphate .
In the 1865 samples little more than two-thirds of the expected excess is found by analysis in the top 9 inches of soil ; in the 1881 samples not much more than half , and in the 1893 samples only about two-thirds .
Even if we allow some considerable margin for possible error in the estimated accumulation , it still appears clear that there must have been considerable descent .
Unfortunately the irregularity of composition of the subsoils , to which reference has so often been made , makes it very difficult to trace the descent quantitatively .
If we regard the total phosphoric acid in the samples of the second 9 inches we find on Plot , as compared with Plot 3 , an excess of .
in 1865 and 481 lbs. in 1881\mdash ; figures which would , as far as they go , account for much of the descended phosphates .
But the sample of the second 9 inches drawn in 1893 shows , as compared with that of Plot 3 , actually a slight deficiency , and a comparison between the figures of each set of samples of the second 9 inches makes it clear that some at least of these ] cannot be really representative of the plots , as they are inconsistent among themselves .
The third depths , as has been stated before , are hopelessly irregular in total phosphoric acid .
The descent , however , of the phosphoric acid is qualitatively seen in the increase of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in both the second and third depths , especially iu the more recent samples .
In the citric-acid-soluble form in 1865 , 1881 , and 1898 respectively , we find , in the whole 27 inches , 48 per cent. , 31 per cent. , and 41 per cent. of the expeoted excess VOL. CXCIV .
of phosphoric acid .
Of the excess of total phosphoric acid actually found arrested in the first 9 inches , considerably more than one-half exists in the citric-soluble state\mdash ; forming a large reserve of phosphatic fertility .
This reserve , as we have seen , is far from being confined to the subsoil , though much of the phosphoric acid which must be supposed to have descended into the subsoil has evidently assumed a less available form .
It is interesting to speculate as to the cause of this greater descent of phosphoric acid into the subsoil in the case of the dunged as compared with the artificially manured plots .
Is the reason a merely chemical one\mdash ; as in the case of Plots 5 and 7 , where potassium , sodium , and magnesium salts are used in conjunction with superphosphate and have so markedly influenced the condition of the phosphoric acid as compared with that of the plot in which superphosphate is used without such aid ?
Or is it not possible that earth-worms may play a part in the distribution of the constituents of the dung by devouring it and conveying it downwards\mdash ; in the same way that they are well known to take down leaves and other vegetable substances ?
Plot ( Dunged for Nine Years only ) .
This plot had at the time of sampling the soil only been dunged for nine years .
Its condition had previously been that of Plot S. We will examine its results in the same way as we have examined those of the companion plot\mdash ; this plot being particularly interesting , having been restored to a fertile condition after forty years of nearly complete starvation .
PLOT .\mdash ; ( Dunged for nine years ; unmanured for previous forty-one years .
) lbs. per acre .
Estimated excess of phosphoric acid per acre over Plot 3 . . . . .
592 xcess of total phosphoric acid over that in Plot 3 found by analysis in the first 9 inches . . . . .
1186 Ditto in first 18 inches . . . .
705 Ditto in first 27 inches . . . . . . . .
342 Excess of phosphoric acid over Plot 3 soluble in 1 per cent. solution of citric acid found inches . . . .
604 Second 9 inches 29 Third 9 inches 19 27 inches .
The excess of phosphoric acid in the surface soil in this case is much more than the calculated excess per acre\mdash ; being in fact a good deal more than the total phosphoric acid supposed to be contained in the dung used .
It is noteworthy , POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
however , that the lower depths of this plot are markedly poorer in total phosphoric acid than those of Plot 3\mdash ; so that the excess nearly disappears if we calculate for 18 inches , and becomes a deficiency if we include the third 9 inches ; but as no earlier salnples have been examined there is no evidence to show whether the variation in the subsoils is ( as is clear in many other cases ) mere accident .
The quantity of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid in this case appears to account for the nated accumulation of ates , to suggc.st that\mdash ; even allowing for possible of the soil by the sample\mdash ; less of the dung phosphates have reverted to the insoluble condition than in the case of the older dung accumulations on \mdash ; which is what be expected .
The fluence of the dung on the " " available\ldquo ; horic acid of the subsoil is\mdash ; as might also be expected\mdash ; much less marked than in the case of the soil dunged for fifty years , but is nevertheless apparent .
PHOSPHORIC ACID 1N DRAINAGE WATERS .
( ses by the late Dr. A. VOELCKER .
) No evidence of substantial Loss .
A number of years ago , from 1866 to 1869 , the late Dr. A. VOELCKER made detailed allalyses of several series of samples of pipe drainage water collected from these plots .
The results are given in a paper " " On the Composition of Waters of Land Drainage\ldquo ; ( ' Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England , ' 1874 ) , and subsequently summarised in a Rothamsted paper " " On the Rain and Drainage Waters at Rothamsted ( ' Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England , ' vol. , Part I. , 1882 ) .
These are the only fairly complete mineral analyses that have been made of the waters showing the various bases and acids present ; though pretty constant examinations have for many years been made for nitric nitrogen and chlorine .
Few as the analyses were , however , it is desirable that we should here inquire how far they bear upon the soil results discussed in the esent paper .
The drain pipes , it should be mentioned , are situated at a depth of about 27 inches from the surface , or at about bottom of the third depth of 9 inches .
The average quantities of phosphoric acid found in the various collections of drainage water from the plots with which we are concerned were as follows:\mdash ; Average quantity of phosphoric acid in drainage water .
Parts per million .
and 4 ( unmanured ) . . . . .
Plot 10 ( ammonium salts only ) . . . . . . . .
5 ( full mineral dressing without nitrogen ) . . . . . . .
7 ( ammonium salts and full minerals ) . . . . . . . .
, , 11 ( ammonium salts and superphosphate ) . . . . .
12 ( ammonium salts , superphosphate and sodium sulphate ) , , 13 ( ammonium salts , superphosphate and potassium sulphate ) , , 14 ( ammonium salts , superphosphate and magnesium sulphate ) The variations in the average phosphoric acid contents of the various samples collected from the pipes of each plot are from part per million on the unmanured plots ( 3 and 4 ) to parts per million on plot 11 ( phosphates and ammonium salts ) .
If we assume a downward percolation to this depth\mdash ; either from the drain-pipes or into the subsoil\mdash ; of 10 inches of drainage water per annum , 1 part per million of water corresponds , in round numbers , to a quantity of lbs. per acre per annum .
The average variations , then , would , in round numbers , be from lbs. to lbs. of phosphoric acid per acre per annum , the average quantity for all plots being lb. per acre per annum .
Such differences as exist in the quantities of phosphoric acid found in the drainage waters from the various plots appear , in some cases , to bear a relation to the manuring and cropping conditions ; but in other cases there are inconsistencies ; and it is to be remembered that the actual quantities analytically dealt with amounted only to small fractions of a grain of phosphoric acid per gallon of water , and that the methods for the quantitative estimation of minute quantities of phosphoric acid were less satisfactory at that time than they are at the present day .
So that not too much stress must be laid upon the differences found between individual plots or samples .
Substantially , the results seem to show that no very appreciable quantity of manurial phosphoric acid passes away annually in the drainage water .
Of course , the annual descent , even of the average quantity of lbs. per acre found in the drainage waters , would tell in course of time , amounting in fifty years to 1 .
of phosphoric acid per acre ; but the difference between the losses from different plots probably would not materially influence the comparative phosphoric acid contents of the soils .
As far as the limited number of determinations made can be accepted as general evidence , it would seem that there is not a very great difference between the quantity of phosphoric acid then contained in the drainage water from the unmanured plots on the one hand , and from the plots manured with a superabundance of superphosphate on the other .
The descent by drainage may , of course , have become somewhat greater in later years , as unutilised phosphates have accumulated .
It is a matter of regret that among the results we have no phosphoric acid determinations in the drainage water from the dunged plot .
This plot , owing to the absorptive character of its soil caused by the annual additions of organic matter , is so retentive of moisture that the drain-pipes very seldom run except in very wet weather , and Dr. VOELCKER was unable to obtain samples of drainage water from this plot when most of the other samples were collected .
SUMMARY AND NERAL CONCLUSIONS As To PHOSPHORIC ACID .
On the whole , the results show that by far the greater portion of the unconsumed phosphoric acid added in manure is accumulated in the surface soil , although most of the phosphoric acid has been originally soluble in water , and application has POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS ] BROADBALK FILL ) .
extended over fifty years .
By the surface soil is here meant the first 9 inches .
In the case of dung , however , there is considerable descent into the second and third 9 inches .
In the case of superphosphate accolnpanied by constant dressings of potassium , sodium , and magnesium salts , there is evidence of a tangible descent into the second , and even into the third , 9 inches .
In the case of the chemically manured plots , however , the greater part of the calculated accumulation of acid is found by analysis in the surface soil , and a proportion of it is found in a condition in which it dissolves in a weak solution of citric acid .
This reagent enables us to trace qualitatively the descent alluded to in the subsoils of cel.tain of the plots .
While the differences between the total percentages of } ) acid in the surface soils of the variously manured and unmanured plots correspond , as a whole , fairly well with their history , the differences would by no means suffice , in the absence of a knowledge of such history , to give any adequate indication of the profound differences in phosphatic condition which we know to exist ; but the relative proportions of citric-acid-soluble phosphoric acid appear to afford a striking index to the relative ) fertility of the soils .
The probable limit denoting phosphatic deficiency for cereals seems to be , as deduced from this investigation , between and per cent. of citric-.acid-soluble phosphoric acid in the surface soil .
That is to say , a percentage as low as seems to denote an imperative demand for phosphatic manure , while as much as would seem to indicate that there is no such immediate necessity .
For root crops , more especially turnips , the limits would probably be higher .
In the subsoil samples , the irregularities and variations in the natural or original phosphoric acid of the subsoils themselves are such that the total percentages tell us , as a rule , nothing ; while the citric acid results frequently show striking and consistent differences , and are also of considerable interest when studied in connection with the problems of root range and subsoil feeding .
The influence of alkaline salts on the retention of phosphoric acid in a less fixed and presumably more available condition is interesting , increasing as it does with increase of saline applications .
The superabundance of phosphoric acid estimated to have been supplied in dung over fifty years is less satisfactorily accounted for than is the case with the phosphoric acid on the chemically manured plots .
It seems probable that this is to be partly accounted for by the supposition that the phosphoric acid contained in the dung , at any rate over a portion of the time , may have been over-estimated .
There seems , however , reason to suppose that there has been a greater descent into the subsoil in the case of the plot dunged for fifty years than on the chemically manured plots .
On the plot dunged for nine years only we find the estimated accumulation fairly represented in upper depths\mdash ; for the most part in the first 9 inches . .
B. LJYER ON A CHEMICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND POTASH RESULTS .
The author has not determined the total potash in the various samples .
The Broadbalk soil , like most soils containing much clay , contains a great quantity of potash in the fornl of silicates , decomposable only by fusion or by treatment with ydrofluoric acid .
The quantity of potash , including this , is between 1 and 2 per .
in the surface soil , and more in the subsoil .
This means that in the first 9 inches of soil there are tons per acre of potash in a dormant form , while the quantity in each succeeding depth is ) robably greater .
Such potash forms eserve stock for ) distant future , and is , doubt , very gradually rendered available for plant use by the natural processes going on within the soil .
But even with this great reserve of total potash , the soil is unable to furnish a sufficient annual supply to the wheat crop under a system of continuous cropping , unless restitution is made in the form of manure .
It is usual in soil analysis to neglect to take into account potash existing in so insoluble a form as to be separable only by means of fusion or treatment with hydrofluoric acid\mdash ; for such potash is obviously far removed from the range of present utility\mdash ; and only to take into account such potash as is soluble in hydrochloric acid .
It is by this time well recognised , however , that even this solvent extracts , at all events in many cases , far more potash than can be in any sense regarded as of present utility .
Unfortunately , this is not the only unsatisfactory aspect of the determination of potash by hydrochloric acid extraction .
The quantity of potash extracted varies greatly not only with the strength and .
quantity of acid used , but also with the duration of the process and with the temperature .
Even when like quantities of the same acid and like quantities of soil are taken , and when the evaporation is conducted to dryness in a water-bath , and the residue re-digested with equal quantities of acid , the mere rapidity with which the evaporation to dryness is conducted appears to tangibly affect the quantity of potash extracted from the clay , making concordant duplicate results more or less a matter of chance .
It was , however , thought desirable that , for comparison with the citric-acid-soluble figures , such determinations should be made in all of these samples , usin in all cases like quantities of acid and soil and operating in as nearly as possible the same manner .
The quantity of soil taken for each determination was 10 grammes .
The soil was treated with 50 cub. centims. of strong hydrochloric acid , and heated on a water-bath to " " dryness re-digested on the water-bath for one hour with 25 cub. centims. of strong hydro- chloric acid , diluted with water , and filtered .
The citric-acid-soluble potash was determined in the solution obtained on treatment of 200 grammes of the soil as described on p. 243 , the potash being determined in a quantity of solution representing 50 grammes of soil .
The results are shown in the able : POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
SOILS FROM BROADBALK WHEAT FIHiLD , ROTHAMSTED .
Samples collected in 1865 , 1881 , and 1893 .
Potnsh ) Dissolved by strong hydrochloric acid .
Dissolved by 1 per cent. solution of citric acid .
Second 9 inches of soil .
ON A ICAL STUDy OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND of Plots with Potassinm Salts ( or with Dung ) those not so For the purpose of this general comparison it will be sufficient to consider , as in the case of the phosphoric acid results , the 1893 samples\mdash ; though in this case it will found to be of interest to consider all the three depths as far as the citric-acidsoluble percentages are concerned .
The hydrochloric acid figures , however , for the second and third depths appear to have so little practical significance that we may leave them out of consideration ; the quantity of potash dissolved by the mineral acid in these lower depths being vastly in excess of the potash which , from any point of view , can be regarded as of nearly prospective utility , and its variations bein so obviously independent of the manurial treatment and cropping history of the soil as to deprive them of apparent practical significance .
POTASH IN SOILS OF BROADBALK , ROTHAIsISTED .
We have here a series of plots of which some are wholly unmanured , some nured with annnonium only , and several with both ammonium salts and phosphates .
Of these last , one plot is without alkalies , one sodium salts , another salts , one potassium salts , and another all of these materials .
We see that Plot alkalies , lthoug abundant]y supplied nitrogen and phosphates , has evidently largely exhausted the readily available potash of the soil , by comparing its recent yield of wheat and ( more especially the latter ) with that of the potash Plot 13 .
We also see that , either in virtue of certain applications of potassium salts forty years or more ago , or possibly in virtue of the solvent action on soil potash of the sod.ium and magnesium salts applied every year , - Plots 12 and 14 are very much more fertile than Plot 11 , though distinctly less fertile than Plot 13 , which gets an abundance of potassium salts , and still less so than No. 7 , which gets all three salts .
The results of the determinations of hydrochloric-acid-soluble potash in the first depths and of the potash in all three depths of the various plots will be seen to possess great interest , and we shall presently have to consider them all in detail .
For the moment , however , we may eously condense our table as we did in the case of phosphoric acid , consider the average results giveh the plots manured and unmanured with ) otash salts and with dung .
are as follows : \mdash ; VOL CXCIV.\mdash ; -B .
IICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND The continuous application of potash , whether in the form of potash salts or of dnng , made itself eyident in the -acid-soluble potash .
But there is no such erence as , that the samples are from the same field , wouId suffice to lead to the conclusion that the soils of the first group were , from a practical point of view , deficient in potash .
of -soluble in -manured Plots to in vther Plots .
Taking the for the lirst group as unity , we find the following ratios : \mdash ; atio of hydrochloric-acid-soluble to that in 7 non-potash plots 7 plots .
Without for 40 years : 1 3 , , Potash dressed . . . . .
1 plot .
Dung 50 years verage Rof Citric-acid-soluble Potash in -rmnured Plots to that in other Plots .
A comparison of the citric-acid-soluble potash , however , appears to.be much more instructive as to the potash condition of the soils .
The ratios are as follows:\mdash ; Potash dressedDung 5otash for These figures are so striking that but little comment on them appears to be necessary .
The chemically manured potash plots show in the first 9 inches nearly seven times as much citric-acid-soluble potash as those left without potash dressings , and in the second 9 inches about three and a half times as much ; while even in the third depth there is nearly twice as much\mdash ; showing that even in these clayey loams , potash salts do , to an extent , find their way downwards into the lower subsoil .
The greater portion cf the accumulation , however , is ( in accordance with the generally accepted views of the chemistry of fairly heavy soils ) found to be in the POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , STED .
upper soil , where the potash appears to enter into some kind of chenlical combination with the constituents of the clay .
In the continuously soil , where estimated excess bas been luch greater , we find ) the ) ) ) ten citric-acidsoluble potash as in the ) otash } ) ; in the second 9 inches , six times as ; and in the , nearly three tinles as hile even in the for nine years only find nine as the to soil , half times as much in the second 9 inches , and twice as lluch in third .
It would secnl as though the potash of the possibly in some state of descends more easily into the subsoil do the in ) however , will claim our attention later .
Probable Limit Potc Deficiency in In the paper on the Hoos Field barley soils a tentative conclusion was drawn that the percentage of citric-acid-soluble potash in surface soil indicative of potash ungcr for cereals would probably lie below .
On considering the results of the wheat- soil analyses and other esnlts obtained in the interim by other workers who have applied the method to other soils known experience to be ponsive to the influence of potassium salts , the author would now be inclined to modify this sion by sugrgesting that when a soil sbows as much as per cent. of citric-acidsoluble potash , by this process , it may be regarded as not demanding aIly special application of potassiunl salts .
Plot 3 .
This plot , it will be remembered , been wholly unmanured throughout experiments .
During the fifty years it has yielded in its crops ) .
of potash .
The figures obtained for hydrochloric acid soluble potash in the 1860- , 1881 , and 1893 samples giye no indication of this loss , the quantity found the ) being greater than that in the case of the 1865 sample .
The citric acid figures are as follows : \mdash ; Potash , ) acre , dissolyed ) cent. Citric Acid 1865 .
1881 .
I cheH 104 83 83 2nd , 75 118 160 , , . . . . .
89 112 201 27 inches . . . .
268 ; .
B. IJYElt ON A IICAL TUDY OF PHOSPHORI ACID AND It will be seen that by 1865 , after twenty-two years of cropping without manure , the citric-acid-soluble ) otash would seem to have been already reduced to a low ebb .
In the surface soil it has still lower , but in the second and third depths it would seem ) ] lave increased .
This decrease to a practically stationary in the surface soil , accompanied by an increase in the lower depths , was also noticed in the case of osphoric acid , but the incl.ease , especially in the third depth , is more marked in the case of the potash .
It been already suggested that the phenomenon may be possibly to some extent attributable to the extension of root growth , the surface soil has become poorer , and to the tion of root remains thus formed .
Plots 3 and 4 Plot 4 , since 1852 , has been treated exactly like Plot 3 , and by 1893 had been over years uumanured .
But , as has been ah.eady said , it was eviously annually dressed with superphosphate and sulphate of ammonia , and in virtue of that treatment has ever since given a slightly better yield than Plot 3 ( see comparison as to phosphatic contents on p. 253 ) .
It had , in its manul.ed days , no regular supply of potash , but in its first year ( fifty years before 1893 ) it had a dressing of farmyard , estimated as plying 23.5 lbs. per acre of potash .
In its crop of fifty years it has yielded .
of potash more than Plot 3 , but owing to the initial supply referred to , its actual loss in cropping has been 148 lbs. less than that of Plot 3 .
This difference is not indicated in the hydrochloric acid potash figures , but it is qualitatively indicated in the surface contents of citric-acid-soluble potash:\mdash ; Potash , per acre , dissolved by 1 per cent. Citric Acid Solution .
1893 .
1st 9 inches 2nd PIot 3 .
Plot 4 .
Lb .
123 27 inches . . .
444 418 Plot 4 contains in the surface soil 52 lbs. per acre more than , the over one.third of the estimated difference in loss of potash per acre .
There is , owever , no shown in second 9 inches ; in the third 9 Plot 4 is very decidedly })oorer .
Similar , less marked , results were in ) ] osphoric acid .
Possibly ) has been less root-growtb and therefore less accumulation of in the lower depth , owing to better feeding of the crops .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS BROADBALK ) , ) .
Plots 3 nnred and only .
Plot has had ammonium salts year , without minerals , except in one solitary early year , when it received only .
of potash .
Here , , the hydrochloric acid figures nothing , but the citric acid ures are of interest .
In the fifty years yielded in it , ) ) 1090 lbs. of potash per acre , against 71 lbs. yielded by 3 .
for the 74 lbs. supl)lied , should be poorer in potash ) ) lbs. per acre .
The following table shows the citric acid figures for the three sets of saml ) ] and the differences fOund and estimated for the three iods : Potash ( per Acre ) dissolyed by 1 per cent. Citric Acid Solution .
Plot .
FirstMore ( xcess o After twenty-two years ( 1844-65 ) .
After thirty-eight years ( 1844-81 ) .
After fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
In 1865 the surface salnples are alike , and is very distinctly richer in the second and third depths .
In 1865 was showing little of potash ustion , for in 1866 its crop yielded .
of potash per acre , while Plot 3 , without gave but 16 lbs. the ammoninnl acted as solvents on the soil potash .
By 1881 , however , seems to have become Plot } in all three depths , there 1oeing in Plot 3 , in the 27 inches , an cess of 11 lbs. acre , as against .
calculated from the crop emovals .
{ .
ON A TUDY OF PHOSPIIORIC ACID AND By 1893 , owever , is a recovery hout in , possibly owing to the boreatly diminished output of crop , to the failure of phosphatic food , and the continued lvent action of nium s , and possibly ( for the increase is mainly in the the effects of deeper development .
At time the " " ) otaHl ) in the surface soil is alike in both ) lots , but third of 3 show lbs. per acre than those of a calculated differencc of ) .
in the loss dne to crol ) emovals Plots These ) lots are alike in their 1nanurial history ( ammonium salts every year , without ' ' minerals except that while both A and had a dressing of " " minerals\ldquo ; in 1844 , Plot was also dressed with minerals in 1848 and 1850 .
The effect of these two extra dressings on the yield of Plot is , as already noted , apparent down to the time .
extra " " " " on included .
of ) otash .
During fift , years , in its has yielded 1 .
of potash , while A yielded only 1090 .
Deducting the excess from the ] , Plot , however , lost less potash in its crops by 185 lbs. .
acre .
Again , oric acid results .
no indication of this , but the citric acid ures show , eve at the end of fifty years , that is icher than A in soluble potash .
The results as follows:\mdash ; Potash per Acre dissolved by 1 per cent. Citric Acid Solution .
cond 9ches It is llotable that in the less starved Plot ( 10B ) there is no increase in the vest depth as in bhe case of POTASII IN AT SOILS OF , ROTHAIsISTED .
Plofs osphcptes .
Both of these plots have been continuously with the same qu tity of ammonium salts , but while ( except in one early year ) received no minerals , 11 has annually received a dressing of superP 1 ) .
In fifty yielded 975 bushels of wheat cwts .
of straw per acre , while 11 yielded 1225 bushels of wheat and 1150 cwtH .
of hafi thel'efore yielded ately 2 cent. more wheat and 30 per cent. more stralv .
For potash supply both crops annually depended on the natural resources of the soil .
The potash contained in the fifty years ' produce of has been 1090 lbs. , and in that of 11 , 1190 lbs. per acre , so that 11 has yielded only abont 9 per cent. more potash than .
This is eviderlce\mdash ; apart from that obtained by comparison with other plots to be presently considered\mdash ; that the crops of 11 have been relatively , as would be expected , suffering frolll deficiency of potash , i.e. , that the resources of the soil have been inadequate to provide a ) supply .
It is therefore of interest to what evidence the analytical figures show of comparative potash exhaustion in the two soils .
This evidence is set forth in the following table:\mdash ; Potash ( per Acre ) dissolved by 1 per cent. Citric Acid tion .
After twenty-two years ( 1844-65 ) .
After years ( 1844-81 ) .
After fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
lt will be seen that in a slight deficiency is found in the total 27 inches ; that in 1881 the results are the same for both soils ; and that in the recently drawn DR. P. ON A IICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND samples a deficiency is shown of 441bs .
per acre as against a calculated deficiency of , but that this is mainly found in the lower subsoil .
It seems possible that the sl may have ] the crops by dissolving natural potash on Plot 11 , and so evented a more complete exhaustion .
But we must gnard ainst the assumption the , or any other constituent from the soil , comes solely fronll the top 27 indles , as the roots go considerably lower .
Plots 3 , It is of further interest to compare in the same way both of these plots with Plot 3 .
Potash dissolved by 1 per cent. Citric Acid Solution .
inch.csth.inches compared w Twenty-two years ( 1844-65 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
Fifty years ( 1844-93 ) .
In 1865 samples no deficiency is indicated in the existing quantity of readily available potash as reinforced by plant residue accumulation , and possibly by the solvent action of the manures applied ; but in the 1881 samples the rence between the unmanured and manured plots has become very marked , and still more so in those of 1893 .
In this year 55 per cent. of the calculated deficiency of potash per acre on Plot , and about 45 per cent. of that in plot 11 , are indicated in the citricacid-soluble phosphate of the 27 inches of soil , the deficiency in both cases being found in the subsoils .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
Plots 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 7 , and 5 .
Manured .
Hydrochloric Acid Resnlts .
We may now turn to the perhaps more important and practically more series of plots , which have throughout received an abundance of phosphates and ( except in one plot ) of ammonium salts , but which differ in their treatment as to other saline manures .
Here we find that the hydrochloric acid results are of some interest , the accidental variations of analysis which make this determination valueless for showing delicate differences being , to a great extent , overwhelmed by the striking differences exhibited in some of the samples now to be discussed .
It is , however , only in the surface soils that the hydrochloric acid figures yield any reliable information , even of a qualitative character , and even then they are of insignificant value besides the citric acid figures .
They are , however , set forth in the following table:\mdash ; Plots 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 7 , and 5 .
Potash per acre dissolved by Hydrochloric Acid from 1st 9 inches of Soil .
Foun .
After 22 years ( 1844-1865 ) .
After 38 years ( 1844-1881 ) .
After 50 years ( 1844-1893 ) .
VOL. CXCIV.\mdash ; B. 2 We find throughout ( except in one sample of 1881 ) a qualitative increase of potash in the soils which have received alkaline salts .
In 1893 , on two plots \mdash ; 12 and 14\mdash ; where the potash was supplied over forty years earlier , and where the quantity supplied has been nearly all removed ( as in 12 ) , or more than removed ( as in 14 ) , we still find decidedly more hydrochloric-acid-soluble potash than on 11 , owing , it may be supposed , to the long continued action of the sodium and magnesium salts applied .
The continuously potash-manured Plot 13 shows in the first 9 inches , soluble in hydrochloric acid , roughly , one-half of the expected accumulation of potash per acre in 1865 , three-eighths in 1881 , and again nearly one-half in 1893 .
The difference found between 1881 and 1893 is .
per acre against a calculated accumulation of Plot 7 , with a liberal annual supply of sodium and magnesium salts as well as of salts , has produced persistently larger crops , using more of the potash supplied to it , and retaining per acre , in the fifty years , 390 lbs. less than Plot 13 .
By hydrochloric acid we find in the surface soil 2 .
less , but these close agreements are perhaps to some extent due to coincidence .
The citric acid figures are of more interest .
Plots 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 7 , .
Citric Acid Results .
Our starting point for comparison is Plot 11 ( ammonium salts and phosphates only ) .
Plot 12 , similarly manured , has also for fifty years received sodium salts , but had 588 lbs. of potash in early years .
The yield of Plot 12 has averaged nearly 6 bushels of wheat and over 5 .
of straw per acre more than that of Plot 11 , and in the six years 1889-94 it averaged nearly 8 bushels more grain and 5 .
more straw .
The larger crops contained in fifty years 553 lbs. more potash , or not quite the whole quantity originally supplied .
In 1865 it is estimated that the soil should have been richer in potash than Plot 11 by .
per acre ; in 1881 by .
; and in 1893 by only The 1865 sample of Plot 12 ( examined , be it always remembered , when nearly thirty years old ) shows , in the surface soil , 63 lbs. more citric acid soluble potash than Plot 11 ; and the 1881 sample shows , with a little in the second depth \mdash ; making together .
excess per acre out of 1591bs .
calculated .
By 1893 the calculated accumulation had sunk to 20 lbs. The quantity found by citric acid in the surface soil is 21 lbs. , with 32 lbs. in the second depth , making an excess over Plot 11 of .
per acre .
This plot ( 12 ) is even now much more fertile than Plot 11 , although the equivalent of the actual potash added has been nearly used up , and the potash in its produce is still annually far larger than in that of Plot 11 .
There can be little doubt that the action of the sodium sulphate annually supplied keeps up a considerable annual supply of available potash .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
PLOTS 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 7 , and 5 .
Potash per acre dissolved by 1 per cent. citric acid solution .
Plot 13 , with a full supply of potash , has , in fifty years , yielded about 4 per cent. more grain and about 9 per cent. more straw than Plot 12 ; but its crops have contained .
of potash per acre as against 1743 lbs. in those of Plot 12 .
The potash-manured crops , therefore , while only from 4 per cent. ( grain ) to 9 per cent. ( straw ) larger , have contained nearly 40 per cent. more potash .
Evidence of Action of Sodium and Magnesinm Solvents of One might at first sight be somewhat tempted to draw the inference that , in the produce of the sodium sulphate plot ( 12 ) , soda has partially replaced potash .
In an elaborate study of the vegetative conditions and of the ash constituents of the mixed herbage of grass embodied in a recent paper by the late Sir JOHN LAWS and Sir J. GILBERT Phil. Trans. Series , we are , however , warned against the temptation to assume that , even in adverse circumstances , soda can functionally take the place of potash .
It is pointed out that , in defect of sufficient potash , more of soda or of lime , or of both , will be taken up\mdash ; probably as carriers of nitric acid\mdash ; and retained by the plant , but that the herbage will be more leafy and immature than where abundant potash is available .
The free deyelopment of carbohydrates functionally demands the presence of an adequate quantity of potash ; and if the plant is stinted in potash neither phosphates nor nitrates , even with the of abundant soda and lime , can enable it to develop to its utmost .
In the last six years of the fifty years now under review the annual produce of Plot 13 , with potassium sulphate , has exceeded that of Plot 12 ( with sodium sulphate ) by bushels of grain and cwts .
of straw .
Both ripe grain and straw consist mainly of carbohydrates , and the excess virtually indicates the greater carbohydrate elaborative power conferred on the wheat plant by supplying it freely with potassium salts , and the inability of sodium salts to functionally replace them .
But the output of potash from Plot 12 in quite recent years is so much greater than from Plot 11 without either potash or soda that there can be little doubt of the practical action of the sodium salts as solvents of soil potash .
Plot 14 is similar in every way in its history to Plot 12 , except that it has been annually dressed with .
of magnesium sulphate instead of lbs. of sodium sulphate .
Its yield , though less than that of Plot 13 , has been , on the average of fifty years , slightly better than that of Plot 12 , over half a bushel of wheat and nearly 1 .
of straw being the annual advantage .
In later years the inferiority to Plot 13 has become more marked , but the superiority to 12 is still distinct , especially in the yield of straw .
While receiving slightly less potash in its early dressings than Plot 12 , Plot 14 has given in crops nearly 100 lbs. more potash in fifty years .
The soil samples taken of this plot in 1865 , in citric-acid-soluble potash , indicate a less accumulation than those of Plot 12 .
But in the 1881 samples there is a con- siderable increase in citric-acid-soluble potash .
In that year 54 lbs. more potash per acre should be expected in this plot than in Plot 11 .
Actually we find , soluble in citric acid , .
more in the surface soil , .
in the second 9 inches , and in the third 9 inches\mdash ; making 183 .
per acre more than on Plot 11 , as against .
expected accumulation .
POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
Passing on to the 1893 samples , when there should , by calculation , be now a deficit of 92 lbs. of potash per acre , compared with Plot 11 , we begin to lose some of our accumulation .
The surface soil yields much less citric-acid-soluble potash than in 1881 , but the second and third depths maintain their superiority , leaving ( compared with Plot 11 ) a balance to the good of .
per acre of easily soluble potash in the 27 inches of soil , as against a calculated deficiency , owing to cropping , of 92 lbs. From these facts , as well as from the higher output of potash from this soil , there seems to be little doubt that the magnesium sulphate , like the sodium sulphate , has acted as a potash solvent , but to an appreciably greater extent , especially in the subsoil .
We now pass on to Plot 13 , which has received , in addition to ammonium salts and superphosphate , a liberal annual dressing of potash far in excess of the demands of the crop .
The excess of supply of potash per acre over the output of potash in the crops should leave the plot richer than Plot 11 to the extent of 2021 lbs. per acre in 1865 , of .
per acre in 1881 , and 4052 lbs. per acre in 1893 .
We find soluble in citric acid solution , in the 27 inches of soil , compared with Plot 11 , an excess of 629 lbs. per acre in 1865 , of 828 lbs. in 1881 , and of 827 lbs. in 1893 .
At the end of the two earlier periods this excess is nearly all found in the first and second 9 inches , but in 1893 there is found a large increase in the third 9 inches also , indicating a descent of potassium salts .
But the citric-acid-soluble accumulation even in the whole 27 inches , though so great , is , roughly , only 30 per cent. of the expected accumulation in 1865 , only 25 per cent. in 1881 , and 20 per cent. in 1893 .
Either , therefore , much of the potash has been washed down to lower depths still , or it has ' ' reverted\ldquo ; into some form of combination with the bases of the soil in which its fails to be dissolved by weak citric acid solution .
Probably , as we shall see presently , much of the deficiency is to be accounted for by descent .
Plot 7 is manured like Plot 14 , but has , in addition to potassium salts , received also an annual dressing of sodium and magnesium salts .
Only the 1893 samples of soil have been investigated .
This plot has , on the average , yielded bushels more wheat and cwts .
more straw per acre than Plot 13 ; while in the last six years ( 1889-94 ) it gave bushels more of wheat and cwts .
more straw per acre .
Its larger yield of crops has entailed a distinctly larger output of potash , so that the estimated excess in the soil ( 3662 lbs. more than Plot 11 ) is 390 lbs. less than on Plot 13 .
Citric acid dissolves , however , from this soil , 115 lbs. more than from Plot 13 in the surface soil , and 11 lbs. more in the second 9 inches , but .
less in the third 9 inches , leaving a balance of 70 lbs. in favour of Plot 7 in the whole 27 inches .
On the whole and mainly in the surface soil it would seem that the magnesiulll and sodium salts have effected the retention of considerably more of the potash in an easily soluble condition .
Plot 5 is a duplicate of Plot 7 with , however , the very important exception that it DR. B. DYER ON A CHEMICAL STUDY OF PHOSPHORIC ACID AND has received no nitrogenous manure whatever .
It yields but meagre crops\mdash ; better , it is true , than those of the wholly unmanured soil\mdash ; even now after fifty years .
But it has given less than half the wheat of Plot 7 and about three-eighths of the straw of that plot , while in recent years it has given less than one-third of the straw .
Its estimated excess of potash , as compared with Plot 11 , is , or .
more than Plot 7 .
The surface soil is richer in potash than that of Plot 7 by , the second 9 inches by , and the third 9 inches by , making , in the 27 inches , just .
per acre , or nearly one-third of the estimated difference .
Dunged Plots and .
We have yet to consider the two farmyard manure plots , and , the former of which has continuously received throughout the experiments 14 tons of dung per acre per annum , while the latter has been similarly dressed since 1884 only , having been previously unmanured .
For a discussion of this plot the reader is referred back to p. 264 where the phosphoric acid results are referred to .
Plot may be conveniently taken first .
The following table is selfoxplanatory :\mdash ; Plot ( Dung for Fifty Years ) .
The hydrochloric acid figures show qualitatively an excess in each case , but it is of no quantitative significance .
In the lower depths the corresponding figures have no significance whatever\mdash ; being widely variable .
The citric acid results show a progressive increase , but the 1881 samples do not occupy , as to their results , the intermediate position between the other two sets that would be expected .
Only about 21 per cent. of the expected accumulation is found in the three depths POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF BROADBALK FIELD , ROTHAMSTED .
of 1865 , in a citric-acid-soluble state , only about 13 per cent. in those of 1881 and less than 16 per cent. in those of 1893 .
The potash in the dung is estimated by Sir HENRY GILBERT at per cent. The difficulty of forming an accurate estimate of the average constituents of so variable a substance as dung has been already discussed under phosphoric acid ( see p. 264 ) .
The author is inclined to think that the average richness of the dung in potash may have been over-estimated .
On the estimate adopted ( per cent. ) the potash supplied to the soil in fifty years amounts to no less than 11 , .
An average error of only per cent. in the estimate would therefore amount to per acre , and an error of to .
per acre .
But even after making liberal allowance for this , there is a large proportion of potash not accounted for in the citricacid-soluble contents of the soil , which must either have remained in ( or reverted into ) an insoluble condition , or have descended still lower into the subsoil .
Possibly both suppositions are for there is\mdash ; certainly in 1893\mdash ; clear eyidence of excess as far as the third depth .
It has already been suggested that earth-worms may possibly be responsible for the mechanical transfer of dung to the lower subsoil .
In the case of Plot \mdash ; dunged for only nine years previously to 1893\mdash ; the figures work out as in the following table:\mdash ; Plot ( Dung for Nine Years ) ( Unmanured for preceding Forty-one Years ) ( 1893 ) .
lbs. per acre .
Estimated excess of potash per acre over Plot 3 . . . . .
1892 Excess of potash over Plot 3 found soluble in strong hydrochloric acid in first 9 inches . . . . . .
1249 Excess of potash over Plot 3 found soluble in 1 per cent. citric acid solution:\mdash ; First 9 inches . . . . .
745 Second 9 inches . . . . . . . . .
289 Third 9 inches . . . . .
67 27 inches . . . . .
1101 Here the figures found by analysis are much more in accord with estimate , and it is obvious that whatever error there may be in the potash estimate for the dung has only been multiplied nine-fold instead of fifty-fold ; and it is further possible that the estimate adopted may be more accurate for the dung recently used than for that of earlier years .
There seems , however , to be evidence here again that the potash of the dnng travels downwards with considerable facility , for though the has only been continued for nine years , there is a great increase in the soluble potash of the second 9 inches , and a considerable increase in that found even in the third 9 inches .
Altogether the citric-acid-soluble potash found in the 27 inches accounts for nearly two-thirds of the estimated excess in the soil , as compared with Plot 3 .
POTASH 1N DRAINAGE WATERS .
VOELCKER ) : Lo.ss of by generally slight , but very appreciable on dunged plot on plot mured with Potash in absence of Nitrogenous Manure .
Under the section on phosphoric acid reference was made ( p. 267 ) to the results of the analyses of drainage waters of Broadbalk Field made in 1867 , 1868 , and 1869 , by the late Dr. A. VOELCKER .
Samples taken in May , 1867 , January and April , 1868 , and December , 1869 , yielded the following average quantities of potash per million :\mdash ; of potash in drainage waters .
Parts per million .
Plots 3 and 4 ( unmanured ) . . . . .
Plot 10 ( ammonium salts only ) . . . . .
11 ( ammonium salts and superphosphate ) . . .
12 ( ammonium salts , superphosphate , and sodium sulphate ) . . . . .
, , 14 ( ammonium salts , superphosphate , and magnesium sulphate ) . . . . .
: , 13 ( ammonium salts , superphosphate , and potassium sulphate ) . . . . .
7 ( ammonium salts and full minerals ) . . . .
5 ( full minerals without nitrogen ) . . . . .
2 ( farmyard manure ) . . . . .
These results , although the samples examined were few in number , accord on the whole remarkably with what might be expected , in the light of the foregoing discussion .
Thus the potash in the drainage water is less on Plot ll\mdash ; supplied with phosphates and nitrogen , but no potash\mdash ; than on the unmanured Plots 3 and 4 , or on Plot 10 , which received only ammonium salts ; the utilisation by crops of the available potash being , of course , greater on Plot 11 in presence of abundance of both phosphates and nitrogen .
Plot 12 , supplied in its earlier history with potash , and in virtue of this ( and probably of the solvent action of the sodium salts ) showing , in the 1865 soil samples , more citric-acid-soluble potash than Plot 11 , also yields more potash in its drainage water ; and it also yields more than Plot 14 ( magnesium salts ) , also in accordance with the citric acid results .
Plot 13 , well supplied with potash , shows decidedly more potash in its drainage water than Plot 7 , also liberally supplied with potash , but getting also other salts , and giving in consequence a greater crop , and utilising somewhat more potash ; while Plot 5 , getting a full supply of minerals without nitrogen , yields much more potash in its drainage ( as much as the dunged POTASH IN WHEAT SOILS OF FIELi ) , ROTHAMSTED .
plot , which receives the greatest quantity of potash ) .
The average quantities are , it is true , in no case great , varying from 1 part of potash per million parts of water on Plots 11 and 14 to parts per million on Plots 5 and 2 .
Assuming an average annual percolation of 10 inches of rain water into the drainpipes or into the subsoil below the depth of 27 inches , these quantities would represent as little as lbs. of potash per acre per annum from Plots 11 and 14 , and as much as lbs. per acre from Plot 5 ( full mineral dressing without nitrogen ) , and from Plot 2 ( continuously dunged ) .
The difference between these two extremes would amount to .
in fifty years ; but it seems probable that as the quantity of potassium salts has annually accumulated in the soil , the quantity of potash in the drainage waters will have become greater in later years on the potash-manured plots and on the continuously plot .
Dr. A. VOELCKER'S drainage water analyses , therefore , may be regarded as yielding , even as long ago as 1867-69 , evidence of appreciable descent on the plot on which the application of potassium salts had been excessive , and where their utilisation had been least , owing to absence of nitrogenous manure : and also on the plot on which the heavy dressing of farmyard manure had been continuously applied .
The analytical results of the subsoils of these plots down to a depth of 27 inches show a much larger quantity of citric-acid-soluble potash than do any of the other plots , and this seems to accord with indications of the descent of some potash to even a lower depth in the drainage water .
SUMMARY AND GENERAL CONCLUSIONS As To POTASH .
The hydrochloric acid solubility of potash is , as in the case of the barley soils , found to be practically useless as a gauge of potash fertility , especially in soils containing an abundance of total potash in mineral combination as silicates , \amp ; c. No concordant results are obtainable except by working under the strictest arbitrary conditions , and the results , when concordantly obtained , have little meaning , apart from an independent knowledge of the history of the soil .
With this knowledge the results are interesting , but in its absence are of little use even as a vague index of potash fertility , except in extreme cases .
The results obtained by the use of dilute citric acid as a solvent are very strikingly instructive and consistent .
They show that the largest accumulation of manurial potash , whether applied in the form of dung or of potassium salts , is in the surface soil , but that a very large proportion is also found in the second 9 inches , and even in the third 9 inches .
The accumulation in the second and third 9 inches is most evident in the cases of the dunged plots and of the plot which , in addition to potassium salts , has received superphosphate and sodium and magnesium sulphates , without nitrogen .
Both sodium and magnesium salts have exercised a distinct influence in increasing the proportion of citric-acid-soluble potash , in all depths , on VOL. CXCIV.\mdash ; B. 2 the plots to which no salts have been } ) lied for over forty years .
These plots still intain a higher yield of potash in their crops than does the plot manured with superphosphate and ammonium salts only , though the equivalent of the potash originally abided has been more than exhausted in one case , and nearly so in the other .
Furthermore , sodium and magnesium salts , used in conjunction with potassium salts , have caused a much larger retention of potash in a citric-acid-soluble condition than wluen potassium sulphate has been used without them , although the potash taken up by the crops has been greater than in the latter case .
Tt would seem on the whole probable that when a soil , in the surface depth , contains as lnuc as per cent. citric-acid-soluble potash the special application of potassium salts , at any rate as far as cereaIs are concerned , is not needed .
It has usually been considered that potash is pretty firmly retained in the surface soil on land containing a fair proportion of clay .
That this is the case , as compared with sodium salts , has often been shown , and , apart from earlier investigations , was lnarkedly brought out in the Broadbalk drainage water analyses made by the late Dr. A. VOELCKER , which showed that sodium salts pass into the drainage water with comparative freedom , while potash was found in only comparatively small quantities .
But , as we have seen , even the ter analyses referred to did show a distinct loss of potash in drainage in certain cases , and it is evident the results of the surface soil and subsoil analyses now discussed that , though , relatively to sodium salts , potassium salts readily become " " fixed\ldquo ; in soils , often probably passing partially into a very stable insoluble form , they are nevertheless more " " migratory\ldquo ; than phosphoric acid .

