]\gt ; , the vapour pressure lowering of the solution liquid pressure of the ution , value of when Then we may say or , since the magnitude of is of the order , we may for the purpose of integration conveniently take We may also , within the desired limits of accuracy , take for the relation between the pressure and specific volume of saturated water vapour Substituting these values for and in the equation * For instance , in the extreme case of 40-per-cent .
lithium chloride solution , the value of is , which only differs from the value of for an " " infinitely dilute\ldquo ; solution by 1 part in 200 .
The error in the vapour pressure lowering determined experimentally is not less than 1 in 100 .
'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 90 , p. 45 ( 1914 ) .
The Onnotic in Retation to Progressive Hydration .
547 and integrating at constant temperature , we get The integration constant is obtained from the consideration that the liquid pressure in the solution when under pressure of its own vapour only is that is to say , when we must have also .
The above equation expresses the relation between liquid pressure and internal vapour pressure .
As the liquid is compressed by varying pressures the internal vapour pressure is changed in accordance with the above expression .
But it is essential to clearness of ideas not to regard any value of as " " osmotic pressure\ldquo ; except the particular value which must have in order to make .
Thus we get for the osmotic pressure in accordance with our definition where now stands for the osmotic pressure of the solution at absolute temperature T. Putting , expanding the logarithms , neglecting small quantities of the second order and neglecting also in comparison with on the lefthand side we obtain the equation which has already been obtained by Callendar , Porter and others .
The point of the deduction set out above is that the expression is deduced from the strict definition of osmotic pressure , which does not permit us to regard osmotic pressure as varying with " " hydrostatic pressure Since within the limits of experimental error of vapour pressure determinations we can put , the expressions formerly given for the osmotic data in terms of ressive hydration*can now be put in the simpler and yet more accurate form , Here is the osmotic pressure expressed in atmospheres , is the freezing point depression of the solution , is the ratio of the vapour pressure lowering to the vapour pressure of water at the same temperature , is the total number of molecules of water to one molecUle of solute , is the number of molecules of water in combination with one molecule of the solute , and is the ionisation factor , the best values of the constants being and * Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 106 , p. 609 ( 1914 ) .
On tloe Origin of the Electron Emission from Glowing Solids .
By FRANK HoRTor , Sc. D. ( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received May 14 , \mdash ; Read June 25 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) The tron e ission from Nernst filaments has been measured under different conditions and the following results have been obtained:\mdash ; 1 .
The electron emission from a filament heated by an alternating current is of the same magnitude as that obtained when the filament is heated by a continuous current to the same temperature .
2 .
The electron emission from a Nernst filament at a given temperature is the same when heated by conducting an electric urrent as when heated by a glowing metal wire passing through it .
3 .
The electron emission from a Nernst filament heated in the usual manner is the same as that given by the material of the filament when powdered and heated upon platinum .
These results show that the action of an oxide cathode does not depend 'Trans. .
Chem. \amp ; c vol. 106 , p. 1809 ( 1914 ) .

