276 Prof. A. Gamgee .
Absorption of the extreme [ Feb. 13 , that when the Rontgen rays pass through a dielectric they make it during the time of their passage a conductor of electricity , or that all substances when transmitting these rays are conductors of electricity The passage of these rays through a substance seems thus to be accompanied by a splitting up of its molecules , which enables electricity to pass through it by a process resembling that by which a current passes through an electrolyte .
By using a block of solid paraffin in which two pairs of electrodes are embedded , the line joining one pair being parallel , that joining the other pair perpendicular , to the Rontgen rays , which were kept passing through the block , I found that there is but little difference between the rate of leakage along and perpendicular to the rays .
I have much pleasure in thanking Mr. J. A. McClelland , of Trinity College , Cambridge , and Mr. E. Everitt for the assistance they have given me in carrying out these experiments .
A telegram from Professors Borgman and Gerchun , of St. Petersburg , forwarded by the editor of the ' Electrician , ' to the effect that Rontgen rays discharged electricity , and a letter from Professor Lodge to the effect that he had definitely ascertained that the phosphorescent glass was the source of the radiation of Rontgen rays , and that the radiation starts in all directions , and not normally only from the glass , were read .
IV .
" On the Absorption of the extreme Violet and ultra-Violet Rays of the Solar Spectrum by Haemoglobin , its Compounds- and certain of its Derivatives .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Emeritus Professor of Physiology in the Owens College , Victoria University .
Received February 11 , 1896 .
In the year 1878 the late Professor J. L. Soret , of Geneva , in his first memoir on the absorption of the ultra-violet rays of the spectrum by diverse organic substances , * announced the fact that diluted blood , when examined with the aid of a spectroscope provided with a fluorescent eye-piece , presented in the extreme violet , between Fraunhofer 's lines G and H , an absorption band which appeared to him to be slightly shifted towards the less refrangible end of the spectrum when the blood solution was saturated with carbonic oxide .
Soret subsequently^ confirmed the accuracy of the above * J. Xi .
Soret , " Rechercbes sur 1*Absorption des Rayons ultra-violets par diverses Substances , " ' Archives des Sc. Phys. et Nat. , ' vol. 61 ( Geneva , 1878 ) , pp. 322\#151 ; 359 .
t Soret , * Archives des Sc. Phys. et Nat. , ' vol. 66 ( 1883 ) , pp. 194 , 195 , and 204 .
1896 .
] Violet and ultra-Violet , Ray a by Hemoglobin , Sc. 277 facts , employing the photographic method in his experiments .
Since the date of the publication of Soret 's short notes on this subject , d'Arsorival* has independently , and without referring to Soret 's observations , described anew the extreme violet absorption band of the blood-colonring matter , but without adding to the facts discovered by the Swiss observer .
The complete absence of all reference to Soret 's scanty , but interesting and suggestive , observations , in text-books and treatises on physiology and physiological chemistry , the fact , which my observations soon elicited , that the absorption band of Soret is much more distinctive of the blood-colouring matter than the absorption bands in the visible spectrum which have hitherto engrossed the attention of observers , led me to interest myself in an investigation which promises to throw much light on the relations of the blood-colouring matter to other organic proximate principles , and on the transformations which the blood-colouring matter undergoes in the animal economy .
In this paper it is my object merely to communicate some of the more interesting results which I have hitherto obtained , a full discussion of the details of the research , which are of special interest to physiologists and physiological chemists , being reserved for future publication .
My observations have , for the most part , been carried out with the aid of a spectrometer furnished with a quartz prism and quartz lenses , and the observations were made with the help of photography .
The substances which will be referred to in the statement of results are the following :\#151 ; 1 .
Oxy-haemoglobin .
2 .
Haemoglobin .
3 .
The CO- and HO-com-pounds of Haemoglobin .
4 .
The iron-containing products of decomposition of haemoglobin and of oxy-haemoglobin , viz. , Haemochromogen ( reduced haematin ) and Haematin .
5 .
Methaemoglobin .
6 .
Haemato-porphyrin .
7 .
Bilirubin , Hydrobilirubin , and Urobilin .
The following are some of the principal results of the inx estiga-tion:\#151 ; I. The compounds of haemoglobin with oxygen , carbonic oxide , and nitric oxide present , even in highly dilute solutions , an absorption band between Fraunhofer 's lines Gr and H. As a result of a large number of measurements , I conclude that in the case of oxy-haemoglobin the mean ray absorbed coincides with X 414'0 , that is to say , the centre of absorption is slightly nearer the red end of the spectrum than Soret bad stated ; this observer placed the centre of absorption at Ti ( A , 410 1 ) .
* A. d'Arsonval , 'Arch , de Physiologic Norm , et Patholog .
, ' 5me serie , vol. 2 ( 1890 ) , pp. 340\#151 ; 346 .
278 Absorption of Violet Rays by Hcemoglobin , tyc .
[ Feb. 13 , As Soret had indicated , in the case of the compound of carbonic oxide with haemoglobin , the absorption band is slightly displaced towards the less refrangible end of the spectrum .
The combination of haemoglobin with nitric oxide presents an absorption band occupy , ing precisely the position of that of the CO-compound .
In the case of these two compounds , the mean ray absorbed corresponds to X 420 ' 5 .
II .
When the molecule of dissociable oxygen is removed from oxv-haemoglobin , either by the action of reducing agents , or by boiling in vacuo , the absorption band in the extreme violet is remarkably displaced towards the less refrangible end of the spectrum , the centre of absorption corresponding to X 426'0 .
When we reflect that the addition of a molecule of oxygen to the enormous molecule of haemoglobin cannot affect in an appreciable manner the mass of the molecule , we must conclude that the displacement of the absorption baud towards the ultra-violet end when haemoglobin combines with oxygen ( all other conditions remaining the same ) , indicates that this combination leads to a notable acceleration of the intra-molecular movement , which is the cause of the absorption of the extreme violet rays by haemoglobin .
III .
The absorption of the extreme violet depends on the iron-containing moiety of the haemoglobin molecule , , for , whereas it is not presented by the albuminous product of the decomposition of the blood-colouring matter , it is characteristic of the acid compounds of haematin and of haemochromogen .
IY .
Solutions of alkaline haematin , even when enormously diluted ( 1:30,000 of water ) , exert a general absorption of the ultra-violet and extreme violet , but present no trace of definite absorption , either in the extreme violet or the adjacent ultra-violet region .
The compounds of haematin with acids , haematin hydrochloride , present even in solutions of great dilution ( 1 : 25,000\#151 ; 1 : 50,000 ) an intense absorption band , which encroaches more and more on the ultra-violet as the strength of the solution increases .
In a solution containing one part of crystallised haematin hydrochloride in 20,000 parts of glacial acetic acid the band extends between h and M , the most intense absorption being between h and L. The less refrangible border of this band is sharply defined , whilst the more refrangible border is less definite .
As the solution is diluted , the band becomes narrower , through less and less of the ultra-violet being absorbed .
In highly dilute solutions the band which is still intense absorbs both H and K. The acid compounds of haematin exhibit , therefore , an absorption band , which is exactly on the boundary of the ultra-violet proper , and which extends further and further into the ultra-violet as the concentration of the solution increases .
Presents .
1896 .
] y Solutions of haemochromogen ( reduced haematin of Stokes ) exhibit an intense absorption band between h and G. The band has the same position as the band of CO-haemoglobin , but is more intense .
With one part of baemochromogen in 25,000 parts of water ( the stratum examined being 10 mm. thick ) , an intense absorption band occupies the region between \ 410*0 and \ 430*0 .
From the examination of solutions of various strengths , it results that the mean ray absorbed corresponds to A , 420*0 .
VI .
The absorption of the extreme violet and ultra-violet by methaemoglobin indicates that this body is the product of a partial decomposition of the molecule of oxy-haemoglobin .
VII .
The band in the extreme violet ( and ultra-violet ) , which is characteristic of haemoglobin , its compounds , and certain of its iron-containing derivatives , in no respect depends upon the iron in the molecule .
This conclusion is based ( 1 ) on the fact that none of the compounds of iron , organic or inorganic , possess the property of producing a definite absorption in the extreme violet or the adjacent ultra-violet ; ( 2 ) upon the study of haematoporphyrin , a body derived from haematin by the removal of the iron which this body contains .
Acid solutions of haemotoporphyrin of extreme dilution exhibit an absorption band between h and H. If the solution be slightly more concentrated K is absorbed , and with increasing concentration of the solution the absorption of the ultra-violet extends more and more .
Alkaline solutions of haematoporphyrin absorb the same spectral region , bat the intensity of the absorption is greater .
VIII .
Neither bilirubin , hydrobilirubin , nor urobilin present any definite absorption band in the region of the spectrum where the absorption band of haemoglobin and its derivatives occurs .
Presents , February 13 , 1896 .
Transactions .
Adelaide:\#151 ; TLoyal Society of South Australia .
Transactions .
Vol. XIX .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Adelaide 1895 .
The Society .
Belgrade :\#151 ; Royal Servian Academy .
Spomenik .
No. 25 .
[ Servian .
] 4to .
Belgrade 1895 ; Glass .
IS os .
49\#151 ; 50 .
\_Servian.~\ 8vo .
Belgrade 1895 ; Godishnak .
1894 .
\_Servian.~\ 8vo .
Belgrade 1895 .
_ The Academy .
Bergen:\#151 ; Museum .
Aarbog .
1894-95 .
8vo .
1896 .
The Museum .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Annual Report of the Curator .
1894\#151 ; 95 .
8vo .
1895 .
The Museum ,

