Description of a single-lens Micrometer , By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read February 25 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 119 .
] The author , being unable to measure some of his very small wires so accurately as he wished by any means at present in use , contrived the method here described , which he recommends as fully answering his expectations .
A lens having its focus at one twelfth of an inch is mounted in a plate of brass , and by the side of it is made a small perforation , as near to its centre as --th of an inch .
When a lens thus mounted is placed before the eye for the purpose of examining any small object , the eye can at the same time see distant objects through the adjacent perforation , by reason of the magnitude of the pupil , which is sufficient for receiving rays through both the lens and the naked aperture .
The magnified object may thus be compared with a scale of any large dimensions at such a distance as may best suit the convenience of the observer .
The author , however , recommends a small scale attached to the instrument , as better adapted for steady comparison with the object to be measured .
The instrument has externally the appearance of a telescope , consisting of three tubes , with the little lens at its smaller extremity ; and in the place of the object-glass is fixed the scale of equal parts , which consists of pieces of wire placed side by side , and so proportioned in their lengths at regular intervals , as to be easily counted .
A wire of known dimensions , as for instance,.-yth of an inch , being then placed in a suitable position before the lens , the tube is drawn out till this wire apparently occupies fifty divisions upon the scale , and consequently each division at that -distance corresponds to 1 of an inch in the focus .
Again , at half that distance the 50 x 200 same wire covers only twenty-five divisions , each of which now corresponds with _ , yWth of an inch seen in the focus of the eye-glass .
These numbers are marked accordingly on the outside of the tube , and the intermediate fractions r-V , r-o- , &amp;c. are found by dividing the exterior scale into equal intervals .
Hence in the measurement of any wire , the number of divisions which it occupies on the interior scale are to be noted as numerator , and the number marked on the tube externally as denominator of a fraction , expressing its dimensions in proportional parts of an inch .
Since the correctness of the instrument depends on the precision with which the first wire is known as basis of the exterior indications , the wire is made of fine gold , and its dimensions determined by the weight of a given length .

