4 .
" On a new Series of Organic Bodies containing Metals .
" By Dr. E. Frankland , Professor of Chemistry , Owen 's College , Man .
chester .
Communicated by B. C. Brodie , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1852 .
The author communicates in this memoir the continuation of his researches , a preliminary announcement of which appeared several years ago , upon a new series of organic compounds closely allied to cacodyl in their composition and properties , and which , like that body , are formed by the union of the alcohol radicals with various metals , and are distinguished for their powerful electro-positive character .
These remarkable compounds are procured by the action of heat or light upon their proximate constituents , and are thus distinguished from most other organic compounds of this nature by the manner of their formation .
The author describes seven of these compounds .
Stanethylium.---When iodide of ethyl and metallic tin are exposed to the influence of heat or light , which is most conveniently done in sealed glass tubes , the tin gradually dissolves in the ethereal liquid , which finally solidifies to a mass of colourless crystals .
A quantity of gas , comparatively very small , is generated at the same time .
This gaseous product of the reaction proved , on analysis , to be a mixture of hydride of ethyl and olefiant gas , produced from the .
decomposition of iodide of ethyl by tin into iodide of tin.and ethyl , which last is transformed -at the moment of its liberation into the two gases just mentioned .
The principal and most important reaction , however , consists in the direct union of tin with iodide of ethyl , giving rise to a crystalline body which is the iodide of a new organic radical , stanethylium .
By double decomposition the other compounds of stanethylium can be readily formed ; the author has prepared and described the oxide , chloride , bromide and sulphide of stanethylium ; these bodies exhibit a striking resemblance to the corresponding bi-compounds of tin , but are distinguished from them by a peculiar pungent and irritating odour resembling that of the volatile oil of mustard .
If a slip of zinc be immersed in a solution of chloride of stanethylium , dense oily drops soon form on the surface of the zinc , and finally collect at the bottom of the vessel .
This oily liquid is the radical stanethylium , which possesses the following properties:-it exists at ordinary temperatures as a thick heavy oily liquid of a yellow or brownish-yellow colour , and an exceedingly pungent odour resembling that of its compounds , but much more powerful .
It is insoluble in water , but soluble in alcohol and ether .
At about 150 ?
C. it enters into ebullition , but is simultaneously decomposed , metallictin being deposited In contact with air stanethylium rapidly absorbs oxygen , and is converted into oxide of stanethylium .
Chloride , iodide and bromide of stanethylium are instantaneously formed by the action of chlorine , iodine and bromine , or their hydrogen acids respectively , upon stanethylium .
The two first are in every respect identical with the salts above mentioned , and the identity of the bromide is further proved by an ultimate analysis .
The formula of stanethylium is 04 Hs Sn ; that of the oxide C4 H5 SnO , and that of the bromide CH Sn Br .
Stanethylium therefore perfectly resembles cacodyl in its reactions , combining directly with the electro-negative elements , and regenerating the compounds from which it has been derived .
Stanmethylium and stanamylium are formed when the iodides of methyl and amyl respectively air exposed to the action of light in contact with tin : ; their salts are isomorphous with those of stanethylium , but they have not yet been completely investigated .
Zincmethylium.-This radical is formed in an uncombined state when iodide of methyl and zinc are exposed to a temperature of about 1500 C. , in a sealed tube ; the zinc gradually dissolves with an evolution of gas , whilst a mass of white crystals and a colourless mobile liquid refracting light strongly , occupy , after -a few hours , the place of the original materials .
In this reaction two distinct decompositions take place , viz. the decomposition of iodide of methyl by zinc with the production of iodide of Zinc and liquid zincmethylium , and the decomposition of iodide of methyl by zinc with the formation of iodide of zinc and the gaseous radical methyl .
The zincmethylium was obtained pure by distillation in an atmosphere of dry hydrogen .
Its formula is C2 3 Zn , :and it possesses the following properties .
It is a colourless , transparent and very mobile liquid , possessing a peculiar penetrating and insupportable odour , and boiling at a low temperature .
Zincmethylium combines directly with oxygen , chlorine , iodine , &amp;c. , forming somewhat unstable compounds .
Its affinity for oxygen is even more intense than that of potassium ; in contact with atmospheric air it instantaneously ignites , burning with a beautiful greenish blue flame , and forming white clouds of oxide of zinc ; in contact with pure oxygen it burns with explosion , and the presence of a small quantity of its vapour in combustible gases gives them the property of spontaneous inflammability in oxygen .
Thrown into water , zinemethylium decomposes that liquid with the evolution of heat and light ; when this action is moderated , the sole products of the decomposition are oxide of zinc and hydride of methyl .
The extraordinary affinity of zinemethylium for oxygen , its peculiar composition , and the facility with which it can be procured , cannot fail to cause its employment for a great variety of transformations in organic compounds ; by its agency there is every probability that oxygen , chlorine , &amp;c. can be replaced atom for atom by methyl , and thus entirely new series of organic compounds will be produced , and cleater views of the rational constitution of others be obtained .
The gaseous methyl formed simultaneously with zincmethylium is identical in composition and properties with the methyl derived from the electrolysis of acetic acid ; it was mixed , however , with hydride of methyl generated by the decomposition of accompanying zincmethylium vapour by the water over which the gas was collected .
Zincethylium and zincamylium are homologous bodies formed by similar processes ; their investigation is not yet completed .
Hydrargyromethylium.-'The author has only yet studied the iodide of this radical , which is formed by the action of sunlight upon iodide of methyl and metallic mercury .
After an exposure of several days to sunlight , white crystals begin to form in the liquid , which finally solidifies to a white crystalline mass ; ether dissolves out the new compound and deposits it perfectly pure by spontaneous evaporation .
Iodide of hydrargyromethylium ( C2 H3 HgI ) is a white solid , crystallizing in minute nacreous scales , which are insoluble in water , moderately soluble in alcohol , and very soluble in ether and iodide of methyl ; it is slightly volatile at ordinary temperatures , and exhales a weak but peculiarly unpleasant odour , which leaves a nauseous taste upon the palate for several days .
At 100 ?
C. the volatility is much greater , and the crystals are rapidly dissipated at this temperature when exposed to a current of air .
At 143 ?
C. it fuses and sublimes without decomposition , condensing in brilliant and extremely thin crystalline plates .
In contact with the fixed alkalies and ammonia it is converted into oxide of hydrargyromethylium , which is dissolved by an excess of all these reagents .
A corresponding compound containing amyl is formed , though with difficulty , under similar circumstances , but the attempts to form one containing ethyl have not yet been successful .
Preliminary experiments have also been made with other metals , amongst which arsenic , antimony , chromium , iron , manganese and cadmium promise interesting results .
From a review of the composition and habits of all the organometallic bodies and their compounds at present known , the author is of opinion that the view most generally held respecting the constitution of cacodyl , according to which that radical is a conjugate compound consisting of arsenic conjugated with two atoms of methyl , and which view must , if true , be applied to all the organo.metallic bodies , is no longer tenable ; and he contends that the behaviour of these bodies clearly indicates that they are compounds formed upon the type of the oxides of the respective metals , a portion of the oxygen being replaced by the several radicals , methyl , ethyl and amyl ; the establishment of this new view of their constitution will remove these bodies from the class of organic radicals , and place them in the most intimate relation with ammonia and the bases of Wurtz , Hofmann and Paul Thenard ; indeed the close analogy between stibethine and ammonia first suggested by Gerhardt , has been ' most satisfactorily demonstrated by the behaviour of stibethine with the haloid compounds of methyl and ethyl .
Stibethine furnishes us therefore with a remarkable example of the law of symmetrical combination , and shows that the formation of a five-atom group from one containing three atoms can be effected by the assimilation of two atoms , either of the same or of opposite electro-chemical character : this remarkable circumstance suggests the following question .
Is this behaviour common also to the corresponding compounds of arsenic , phosphorus and nitrogen , and can the position of each of the five atoms with which these elements respectively combine be occupied indifferently by an electro-negative or an electro-positive element ?
This question , so important for the advance of our knowledge of the organic bases and their congeners , cannot now long reiain unanswered .

