1886 .
} On the Action of the Excised Mammalian .
461 It was found by a practical optician to be impossible to work glasses on a cone of large diameter , consequently a conical tool was constructed with an angle of 45 ' at the apex , and 8 inches diameter at the base .
A glass about 4 inches long was ground on the sides of this near the base , and as the resulting lens if ground on plane glass would have been too concave for most purposes , the outer side of the glass was previously ground to a convex cylindrical curve , and its axis applied parallel to the generating line of the cone in the plane of the axis of the cone .
The result was concavo-convex cylinders of varying power suitable for the practical measurement of astigmatism .
Lenses were exhibited varying from 0 to - 6DCy , and from 0 to + 6DCy .
IIL " On the Action of the Excised Mammalian Heart.'* By Augustus Waller , M.D. , and E. Waymouth Reid , M.B. Communicated by Prof , BuRDON SANDERSON , F.R.J5 .
Received November 18 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The graphic method , the galvanometer , and the capillary electrometer were made use of in this research .
The animals used were the dog , rabbit , cat , rat , guinea-pig , and sheep .
The chief results were as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Spontaneous ventricular contractions , complete and capable of being recorded , continue after excision of the heart for periods which are variable , but which as a rule are longer than has generally been received to be the case ( Czermak and Piotrowsky ) .
2 .
Spontaneous ventricular contractions frequently outlast auricular contractions , both spontaneous and excited .
3 .
After spontaneous ventricular contractions have ceased to occur , electrical and mechanical excitations can still provoke contraction .
4 .
The length of contraction of both auricle and ventricle of the excised heart is very great ( 15 to 20 times the normal duration ) , whether the contraction be spontaneous or excited .
5 .
The length of the latent period increases with the length of contraction ; it may be as long as 0*75 sec. 6 .
These phenomena ( 4 and 5 ) depend principally upon the surrounding temperature .
7 .
The heart ( of a rabbit ) can regain its excitability and its power of spontaneous contraction after it has been frozen hard .
462 On the Action of the Excised Mammalian Heart .
[ Dec. 16 , 8 .
In an , excited beat , in ventricle or auricle , of an excised beart , all parts are not in action simultaneously .
9 .
An excited contraction starts from the point excited\#151 ; from the base if the base is stimulated\#151 ; from the apex if the apex is stimulated .
10 .
The excited contraction travels from its point of origin , indifferently in any direction in the substance of the ventricle .
11 .
The rate of the wave of contraction measured by the graphic method varies , according to the temperature and state of the heart , from 3 to 85 cm .
per second .
12 .
The velocity is ( cceteris \#166 ; paribus')greater in the hearts of large than in the hearts of small animals .
13 .
In spontaneous contractions of the ventricle the movement of the apex appears to precede that of the base .
Note.\#151 ; We have followed the wave of both spontaneous and excited contraction of the frog 's ventricle by the graphic method , and measured its rate .
The rate is from 40 to 80 mm. per second .
In spontaneous contraction , the movement of the base precedes that of the apex .
14 .
All parts of the uninjured heart are iso-electric ; the apex , however , is often slightly negative to the base .
15 .
The electrical variation of spontaneous contraction is sometimes diphasic ( corresponding to the double variation of the beat of the frog 's heart ) , sometimes monophasic .
16 .
Electrical variations can be detected after visible contractions have ceased .
17 .
The direction-of the electrical current follows no definite rule in our observations , negativity of apex preceding sometimes negativity of base , at other times the reverse taking place , 18 .
The diphasic variation of excited contractions indicates that the part stimulated is first negative then positive to other parts .
19 .
Under conditions of lowered excitability a weak excitation will give a monophasic , a strong excitation a diphasic variation .
20 .
Towards the close of the period of excitability , the variation of the excited beat is single .
It is less frequently single at the outset of experiment .
21 .
When excitatory variations can no longer be obtained , injury will produce a change of electrical state indicating negativity of the part injured .

