|880 ] On the Spectra of Magnesium and Lithium .
93 irreat complications , and until this difficulty is overcome , experiments at higher temperatures must remain uncertain .
All the experiments sffiow that for an approach to a knowledge of temperatures beyond che range of our actual thermometric scale , the law given in 1873 is a Sufficiently correct reproduction of the facts , considering the limited data at our disposal .
i The intensity of the radiation of the positive pole of the Siemens ' arc , as compared with the same surface heated with a large oxy-hydrogen blowpipe , was determined by employing a hollow negative carbon which allowed the intensely heated surface to radiate directly on to the pile , as shown in fig. 3 .
A large number of observations have been made by this method at different times , and with slight modifications in the order of the experiments , leading to the average result that the intensity of the total radiation of the positive pole of the 'Siemens ' arc is ten times that of the same substance at the temperature of the oxyhydrogen flame .
If we take an average result of nine ' to one , then we may infer that the temperature of the limiting positive pole is about 6,000 ' 0 .
, seeing that the mean temperature of the oxhydrogen may be taken as 2,000 ' C. The mean value of the total radiation of the Siemens ' arc was determined by observing the rate of flow of the water through the annular vessel , represented in fig. 1 , \#166 ; together with the mean increment of temperature .
This gave on the-average 34,000 gram-units per minute , or a little more than three horse-power .
IV .
" On the Spectra of Magnesium and Lithium .
" By G. D-Liveing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received January 8 , 1880 .
In a former communication ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii , p. 350 ) we described our observations on the absorption spectrum of magnesium , and of magnesium with potassium and sodium , as seen in iron tubes in an atmosphere of hydrogen .
These absorptions consisted of\#151 ; " ( 1 .
) Two sharp lines in the green , of which one , which is broader than the other , and appears to broaden as the temperature increases , coincides in position with the least refrangible of the b group , while the other is less refrangible and has a wave-length very nearly 5210 .
These lines are the first and the last to be seen and very constant , and we at first took them for the extreme lines of the b group .
" ( 2 .
) A dark line in the blue , always more or less broad , difficult to-measure exactly .
" ( 3 .
) A third line or band , in the green , rather more refrangible"94 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Jan. 15,1 than the b group ... ... ... ... The less refrangible edge of this bands is sharply defined , and has a wave-length about 5140 , and it fades away towards the blue .
" These absorptions are all seen both when potassium and when .sodium are used along with magnesium , and may be fairly ascribed to magnesium , or to magnesium together with hydrogen .
" ( 4 ) .
When sodium and magnesium are used together , a dark line with ill-defined edges is seen in the green , with a wave-length about .
5300 .
" ( 5 .
) When potassium and magnesium are used together , a pair of dark lines are seen in the red .
The less refrangible of these sometimes broadens into a band with ill-defined edges , and has a mean wavelength of about 6580 .
The other is always a fine sharp line with a wave-length about 6475 .
" ( 6- ) On one occasion , with a mixture of potassium and magnesium , .another dark line was seen in the blue , with a wave-length nearly 4820 .
" 1 We then described the emission spectrum seen when sparks are taken between electrodes of magnesium with a small induction coil without a Leyden jar as consisting of lines with the wave-lengths 4481 , 4590 , 4570 , 4797 , 4930 , 4945 , 4957 , 4969 , 4980 , 4990 , 5000 , the well-known b group , and 5528 .
As the absorption lines above described correspond to no known 'emission lines of magnesium , we could only ascribe their origin to the mixtures employed as distinct from the separate elements , and we were led to investigate the conditions under which corresponding emission^ lines could be produced. .
Shortly afterwards ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxvii , p. 494 ) we de-j scribed the emission spectrum of sparks from an induction coil taken j between magnesium points in an atmosphere of hydrogen , as follows I " A bright line regularly appeared with a wave-length about 5210| - . .
This line does not usually extend across the whole interval !
between the electrodes , and is sometimes seen only at the negative !
electrode .
Its presence seems to depend on the temperature , as it is not !
seen continuously when a large Leyden jar is employed , until the pres-j sure of the hydrogen , and its resistance , is very much reduced .
When \ well-dried nitrogen or carbonic oxide is substituted for hydrogen , this 1 line disappears entirely ; but if any hydrogen or traces of moisture ] be present , it comes out when the pressure is much reduced .
In such I cases the hydrogen lines C and P are always visible as well .
Some-1 times several fine lines appear on the more refrangible side of this line j between it and the b group , which give it the appearance of being a j narrow band shaded on that side .
" " In addition to the above-men-1 tioned line , we observed that there is also produced a series of fine I lines , commencing close to the most refrangible line of the b group , and 1 1880 ] On the Spectra of Magnesium and Lithium .
extending , with gradually diminishing intensity , towards the blue . .
from forty-five to fifty being visible , and placed at nearly equal distances from each other .
" These observations , though very briefly described , were the result of , much labour and many experiments .
Mr. Lockyer , in a recent com-I munication to the Society , has made this particular emission spectrum j the basis of a theory of his own , which we regard as being without !
any foundation in fact ; and as he makes no allusion whatever to our observations , although the abstract of our paper appeared in various scientific journals , # or to the grounds on which we have ascribed the spectrum to a mixture of magnesium with hydrogen , we give now some further details of our former experiments , as well as the observations which we have made since .
1 .
Observations on the Spark between Magnesium Points in Nitrogen and Carbonic Oxide at Various Pressures .
The points were pieces of magnesium wire .
Round one end of each a platinum wire was tightly coiled and fused into the side of a glass tube .
This tube was attached by fusion at one end to another tube filled with phosphoric anhydride , which in turn was connected with a Sprengel pump .
The other end of the tube was connected by a thick rubber tube , capable of being closed by a pinchcock , with a gas holder containing nitrogen over strong sulphuric acid .
The tube , having been exhausted and filled with nitrogen two or three times , it was found that no line at 5210 was visible in the spark .
The tube was now gradually exhausted , and the spark watched as the exhaustion proceeded .
No line at 5210 was seen , although the exhaustion was carried nearly as far as the pump would carry it ; nor was any hydrogen line ( 0 or !
F ) visible , either with or without the use of a jar .
The communication with the gas holder was now opened , and the tube refilled with nitrogen at the atmospheric pressure , a communication was then made with another vessel containing hydrogen , which was allowed to diffuse into the tube for a very short time .
On now passing the spark , the line at 5210 at once appeared , although the quantity of hydrogen diffused into the nitrogen must have been very small .
The experiments with nitrogen at reduced pressure were repeated several times , with the same result .
It was found necessary to have the phosphoric anhydride , as without it traces of moisture were left or found their way through the pump into the tube , and then , when the exhaustion was carried far enough , both the line at 5210 and the hydrogen lines , C and IF , made their appearance .
^We have never , however , been able to detect the line * " Nature , " vol. xyiii , pp. 109 , 321 .
" Proc. Camb .
Phil. Soo .
, " yol .
iii , Part ~V , p. 208 .
96 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Jan. 15 at 5210 , in nitrogen , without being able to detect C or F either at the same time or by merely varying the discharge by means of a Leyden jar .
| Experiments made in the same way with carbonic oxide instead of nitrogen led to precisely similar results .
2 .
Observations on the Spark between Magnesium Points in Hydrogen at reduced Pressures .
A tube , similar to those employed with nitrogen and carbonic oxide , was attached at one end to a Sprengel pump and mercury gauge , and at the other to an apparatus for generating hydrogen .
Dry hydrogen was passed through for some time , and the connexion with the hydrogen apparatus closed .
On sparking with the hydrogen at the atmospheric pressure , the line at 5210 and its attendant series were visible , and were still visible when a small Leyden jar was used with the induction coil , but disappeared almost entirely when a large Leyden jar was used .
When the pressure of the hydrogen was reduced to half an atmosphere , the line at 5210 was seen faintly when a large Leyden jar was used , but not the series of fine lines .
When the pressure was reduced to 180 millims. , the series of fine lines began to show when the large jar was used .
By still further reducing the pressure the whole series was permanently visible when the large jar was used ; but when the exhaustion was carried still further they grew fainter , and almost disappeared .
On gradually readmitting hydrogen , the same phenomena recurred in the reverse order .
3 .
Observations on the Arc with Magnesium and Hydrogen .
The line at 5210 is not seen in the arc in a lime or carbon crucible when magnesium is dropped in without the introduction of hydrogen .
If , however , a gentle stream of hydrogen or of coal gas be led in through a perforation in one of the electrodes , the line at 5210 immediately makes its appearance , and , by varying the current , it may be made to appear either bright or reversed .
However small the current of hydrogen be made , the line can be detected as long as the current and the supply of magnesium continues , and disappears very quickly when the current ceases .
4 .
Observations on the Flame of Burning Magnesium .
The line at 5210 may often be seen in the flame of magnesium burning in air , but both it and the series of fine lines which accompany it come out with greatly increased brilliance if the burning magnesium be held in a jet of hydrogen , of coal gas , or of steam .
The experiments above described , with nitrogen and carbonic oxide at reduced pressures , are almost if not quite conclusive against the supposition that the line at 5210 is due merely to the lower tempera1880 .
] On the Spectra of Magnesium and Lithium .
ture of the spark in hydrogen .
From De La Rue and Muller 's observations it would appear that nitrogen at a pressure of 400 millims. should produce much the same effect on the spark as hydrogen at 760 millims. Now the pressures of the nitrogen and carbonic oxide were reduced far below this without any trace of the line in question being visible .
Moreover , the magnesium line at 4481 , which is not seen in the arc , and may be reasonably ascribed to the higher temperature of the spark , may be seen in the spark at the same time as the line at 5210 when hydrogen is present .
Nevertheless temperature does seem to affect the result in some degree , for when a large Leyden jar is used , and the gas is at the atmospheric pressure , the line almost disappears from the spark , to re-appear when the pressure is reduced ; but by no variation of temperature have we been able to see the line when hydrogen was carefully excluded .
A line of the same wave-length has been seen by Young in the chromosphere once .
Its absence from the Fraunhofer lines leads to the inference that the temperature of the sun is too high ( unless at special times and places ) for its production .
If it be not due to a compound of magnesium with hydrogen , at any rate it occurs with special facility in the presence of hydrogen , and ought to occur in the sun if the temperature were not too high .
We have been careful to ascribe this line and its attendant series to a mixture of magnesium and hydrogen rather than to a chemical compound , because this expresses the facts , and we have not yet obtained any independent evidence of the existence of any chemical compound of those elements .
We have independent evidence that mixtures which are not probably chemical compounds favour the production of certain vibrations which are not so strong or are not seen at all when the elements of those mixtures are taken separately .
The remarkable absorptions produced by mixtures of magnesium with potassium and sodium above-mentioned belong to this class .
We have not been able to obtain the emission spectra corresponding to these absorptions , but in the course of our observations on the arc we have frequently noticed that certain lines of metals present in the crucible are only seen or come out with especial brilliance when some other metal is introduced .
This is the case with some groups of calcium lines which are not seen , or barely visible , in the arc in a lime crucible , and come out with great brilliance on the introduction of a fragment of iron , but are not developed by other metals such as tin .
spectrum of magnesium , as seen in the arc , contains several lines besides those heretofore described .
These lines come out brightly , generally considerably expanded , when a fragment of magnesium is dropped into the crucible through which the arc is passing , but rapidly contract and gradually become very faint or disappear entirely .
vol. xxx .
H 98 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Jan. 15 , ( 1 .
) A line in the greenish-yellow , wave-length 5710-7 .
This line is seen not only in the arc but also when sparks are taken from a solution of magnesium chloride .
It is a faint line in the latter case , but is seen in carefully purified samples of the chloride , so that we have no doubt that it belongs to magnesium .
( 2 .
) A line , wave-length 4351'2 , very close to a chromium line .
It is easily distinguished from the latter by its expansion when fresh magnesium is introduced , while the chromium lines show no expan-1 sion ; it is moreover slightly more refrangible than the chromium line , and as it dies out it is sharply defined on the less refrangible side , ] diffuse on the other side .
This line frequently appears to be accompanied by another weaker line at wave-length 4855 , but we have not been able to assure ourselves that the latter is due to magnesium alone .
It is certainly developed when magnesium is introduced , and we do not know of any other element to which it can be ascribed ; but it behaves very much as some lines of other elements , e.g. , the violet lines of lithium mentioned below , coming out brightly when magnesium is freshly put in , and then nearly dying away .
( 3 .
) A violet line , wave-length 4166 , identical in position with the sharp edge of one of the so-called carbon bands in that region .
( 4 .
) Another violet line , wave-length 4057'3 , easily recognised by its position between two strong iron lines .
These last three lines are conspicuous in Capron 's photograph of magnesium in arc .
The last ( 4 ) may be seen in the spark between magnesium points , and was formerly mistaken by us for the potassium line which is near it .
The lines ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) are so nearly identical in position with two well-known lines of lead , that a suspicion naturally arises that they may be due to the presence of that metal .
We can never be sure that the carbons or even the limestone crucibles we have used may not contain traces of lead ; but if that be so , and these lines are the consequence , it is certain that these two lines are strengthened in an extraordinary degree by the presence of magnesium , while the other lines of lead are not seen at all .
Photographs of the arc taken when a fragment of magnesium is introduced show these lines strongly , while no trace is discernible of other lead lines 4062 , 4246 , or 4386 .
Until we get some other evidence of the presence of lead , we must ascribe these lines to magnesium .
There are lines in the " normal solar spectrum " corresponding to all these lines except that at 4166 .
That at 5710'7 is ascribed to iron by Angstrom , but neither Thalen , Kirchhoff , Huggins , nor Bois-baudran give any iron line at this place ; and we have not succeeded in seeing any such iron line , but there is an air-line very nearly in that position .
Rutherford 's photograph of the solar spectrum shows a line very nearly at 4166 .
This makes the spectrum of magnesium in the arc consist of lines 1880 .
] On the Spectra of Magnesium and Lithium .
99 at 5510*7 , 5527*5 , the 6 group , 4703*5 , 4570*5 , 4351*2 , 4166 , 4057*3 , and the triplet beyond H. On the Spectrum of Lithium .
In the spectrum of lithium we have not heretofore been able to obtain the wave-length of the violet line ( at about 4130 , Boisbaudran ) by reason of its very diffuse character , but we have recently found that by a slight modification of our apparatus we could obtain this line more sharply defined and even reversed .
This modification consists in making the opening in the lime small , 5 or 6 millims. in diameter , using small carbons as electrodes , and the current from a De Meritens machine .
The line can then be seen close to but on the less refrangible side of the barium line in that region .
We make its wave-length 4131*7 .
Besides this line we find that lithium gives another line in the arc at 4273 .
This line comes out conspicuously nearly midway between \#166 ; one of the brightest chromium lines and an iron line when a fragment of lithium is dropped into the crucible .
The same line may also be detected in the spark taken between points of fused lithium carbonate ; and as a sample of the carbonate very carefully purified shows this line , we have no doubt that it really belongs to lithium .
Both these lines are remarkably strengthened when a fragment of magnesium is dropped into the crucible .
On taking a photograph of the arc when a fragment of lithium is introduced , two more lines come out on either side of H and K. These are generally diffuse , and barely discernible by the eye in the arc when glass prisms are used , but easily seen with a calcite prism and quartz lenses .
In the powerful arc of a Siemens machine they are enormously \#166 ; expanded and reversed .
From measurements of the photographs the wave-lengths appear to be 3913 and 3984 .
A yet more refrangible diffuse line appears in the photographs at about 3799 .
The lithium lines form a progression not unlike that of the sodium lines , the alternate lines at 4603 , 4131*5 , 3913 are much more diffuse than the lines at 4972 , 4273 , and 3984 , and approach nearer together as they become more refrangible .
There is probably another narrow line at about 3838 , amongst the magnesium triplet , which we have not yet made out with certainty , and we may expect to find fainter lines still more refrangible , but as our photographs have been taken with a train of glass prisms they do not show out .
There is a line in the " normal solar spectrum " corresponding to the line at 4273 .
While the ratios of the wave-lengths of the red , orange , and green lines of lithium are nearly : those of the green and blue ines and the two violet lines first above mentioned are nearly aV : aV : w : TO-

