1885.J Taenia Echinococcus Dog .
449 additional circulation , there are three , together with a standing wave ( corresponding to an infinite period ) .
When both additional circulations are present the periods are given by a biquadratic equation .
When there is no rotational core the motion is always stable .
When there is a doubly continuous core whose density is greater than that of the surrounding fluid there must in general be an additional outer circulation to render the ring stable .
After a hollow is formed the simple ring usually treated of is still stable .
But if the core is denser than the surrounding fluid , it is always stable only if the outer additional circulation is larger than a certain critical value , depending on the densities and the circulations .
If it is less than this critical value , the ring becomes unstable at some point as the aperture increases .
XII .
" Notes upon the Experimental Breeding of Taenia Echinococcus in the Dog from the Echinococci of Man .
" By John Davies Thomas , M.D. ( Lond. ) , F.R.C.S. ( Eng. ) , lately Physician to the Adelaide Hospital , and Member of the Council of the University of Adelaide .
Communicated by T. S. Cobbold , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1885 .
The cystic parasite , Echinococcus , is known to occur under four forms , viz. , as\#151 ; 1 .
The Acephalocystic form .
2 .
Echinococcus scolicipariens .
3 .
" altricipariens .
4 .
" multilocularis .
As regards the Acephalocystic form first described in 1804 by Laennec , it is now generally regarded as a sterile variety in which either no brood-capsules and scolices have been formed , or in which such structures have once been present , but have degenerated and disappeared .
Echinococcus multilocularis is believed to owe its peculiar characters to the fact that it has developed , within tubular structures , e.g. , the lymphatic canals ( Virchow ) , the blood-vessels ( Leuckart ) , or the biliary canals ( Schroder van der Kolk , Friedreich , and Morin ) .
It is not probable that this unusual growth is connected in any way with the biliary canals , because it has been found not only in the liver but also in the lungs and peritoneum .
Echinococcus scolicipariens and Echinococcus veterinorum were long regarded as distinct species .
Their distinctive characters being\#151 ; ( a. ) A marked difference in the mode of proliferation .
In Echinococcus scolicipariens brood-capsules and scolices being produced , ' 450 Dr. J. D. Thomas .
Taenia Echinococcus in [ June 18 , whilst in Ech .
altricipariens a more or less numerous progeny of daughter cysts is present .
Within these , grand-daughter cysts , enclosing a third generation , may be found .
( 6 .
) Kiichenmeister alleged that the Echinococcus heads in these two forms , differ in the number , shape , and size of the hooklets .
According to him Ech .
scolicipariens has twenty-eight to thirty-six hooklets of somewhat blunt shape , whilst Ech .
altricipariens possesses between forty-six and fifty-six of more slender figure and smaller size .
( c. ) The habitat of the two forms is different , Ech .
scolicipariens occupying the viscera of the domestic Herbivora , whence it was alsd called Ech .
veterinorum , Ech .
altricipariens , named also Ech .
hominis , being the form found in man .
It is , however , very doubtful whether any of these differences can be regarded as specific , for great variations occur in the number of daughter-cysts present in Ech .
altricipariens , e.g. , there may be only one or two small cysts , or they may be reckoned by thousands .
Again , as regards the characters of the hooklets , Rudolph Leuckart points out that considerable variety prevails in different individuals of the same species , dependent partly upon the age of the bearer , but also in part upon the circumstance that the shape , arrangement , and size of the hooklets are liable to considerable diversity .
Finally , Ech .
scolicipariens and Ech .
altricipariens may be found together in the same " host .
" Obviously , the question of the identity or otherwise of these forms could only be satisfactorily proved by experiment .
If the scolices of each form produced the same cestoid worm , no further doubt could remain as to the specific unity of the two varieties .
At this stage it is necessary briefly to allude to the evidence upon which our knowledge of the life-cycle of Ech .
veterinorum depends .
Shortly after Kiichenmeister had initiated his helminthological " Feeding Experiments " with Cysticercus pisiformis , Ccenurus , \amp ; c , , experiments were made to discover the cestoid form of Echinococcus veterinorum .
In 1852 von Siebold , * by a series of successful feedings demonstrated that the tapeworm phase of Echinococcus was the small cestoid worm , now known as Taenia echinococcus .
The experiments of von Siebold were successfully repeated by Kuchenmeister and others , and a very successful experiment was also made by Mr. Edward Nettleship , in 1866 , an account of which yvas communicated to the Royal Society.f * " Tiber die " Verwandlung der Echinococcus-Brut in Tseuien .
" " Zeitschrift fur Wissenschaftliche Zoologie .
" Leipzig , 1853 , p. 409 .
+ " Notes on the Rearing of Tania echinococcus in the Dog from Hydatids , with some Observations on the Anatomy of the Adult Worm , " by Edward Nettleship , Member Royal Agric .
Coll. , " Proceedings of the Royal Society , " vol. 20 , No. 86 .
1885 .
] the Dog bred from the Echinococci of Man .
451 In all these cases , however , the dogs were fed with Echinococci obtained from the lower animals ( Echinococcus veterinorum ) .
As many able zoologists believed that there were two or more species of Echinococcus , it became a matter of considerable scientific interest , and indeed of great practical hygienic importance , to determine whether this really were so or not .
Both Kiichenmeister and Zenker endeavoured to breed the adult tapeworm from Echinococci derived from man , but without success .
In 1863 , however , Krabbe and Finsen in Iceland , as well as Naunyn at Berlin , succeeded in breeding Taenia echinococcus from the hydatids of man , but for reasons to be mentioned hereafter , their experiments can scarcely be regarded as decisive .
In order that experiments of this kind may be considered as satisfactory , certain conditions must be fulfilled .
It is necessary-\#151 ; 1 .
To employ animals which could not be suspected of having been infected prior to the time of experiment , or to take steps to remove any entozoa that might be present , by the previous administration of suitable vermifuges .
2 .
To place the animals under circumstances in which it would be impossible for them to acquire infection from any accidental source .
3 .
To feed them with the living Echinococci of man .
4 .
To ' ensure complete success it is necessary not only that the tapeworm should be found in the intestine of the dog , but also that it should be found in numbers proportionate to the number of Echinococcus heads administered , and , moreover , the stage of development reached by the tapeworms should correspond with the date of the experimental " feeding .
" 5 .
No kinds of tapeworms should be present excepting such as can be satisfactorily accounted for .
Judged by this standard , neither the experiments of Krabbe nor those of Naunyn can be regarded as decisive .
Six separate experiments were performed by Krabbe* and Einsen , the number of dogs employed being nine .
Experiments Nos. 2 , 3 , and 5 were entirely unsuccessful , no specimen of Taenia echinococcus being found in the dogs .
These experiments included four out of the total number of nine dogs observed .
Experiment No. 1.\#151 ; In the autumn of 1862 M. Finsen sent to M. Krabbe a glass containing Taeniae found by him in the intestines of a young dog , to which some months previously he had administered Echinococci obtained from a patient operated on by Recamier 's method .
These Taeniae were chiefly specimens of Taenia cucumerina , but there was found also one mature joint of Taenia echinococcus .
* " Recherches Helminthologiques en Danemark et en Island , " par H. Krabbe , Copenhagen , 1866 , p. 49 , et seq. VOL. XXXVIII .
2 K 452 Dr. J. D. Th-omtis .
Tsbhiei Echinococcus ^Jun6 18 This case is not entirely satisfactory , since no mention is made of any precautions having been taken to prevent infection of the dog in question , from other sources than the experimental feeding , and dogs in Iceland are very frequently infested with the experiment cannot be regarded as decisive .
Besides , the feeding took place some months previously , and as the sojourn of Taenia echinococcus in the intestine of the dog is believed not to exceed about two months , this renders the experiment still less conclusive .
Experiment No. 4 was by far the most successful one performed by MM .
Krabbe and Fin sen .
On this occasion tioo dogs , which had been kept under close surveillance by M. Finsen since they had ceased suckling , were fed with the Echinococci of man upon two separate occasions at an interval of a month .
Three months after the second feeding , they were examined .
One gave a negative result ; the other contained a moderately large number of Taenia echinococcus and four examples of Taenia canis lagopodis.f This experiment would be a very satisfactory one , if the presence of Taenia canis lagopodis could be accounted for ; but failing this , some doubt must exist as to whether some accidental infection had taken place or not .
Experiment No. 6.\#151 ; Two dogs were fed : one yielded a negative result .
In the other there were found four specimens of Taenia echinococcus , in company with four hundred of Taenia canis lagopodis .
The remarks made upon Experiment No. 4 apply with greater force to this observation .
It will thus be seen that out of nine dogs experimented upon only three yielded any specimens of Taenia echinococcus .
In one of these only one mature point was found ; in another only four examples of Taenia echinococcus to one hundred times as many of Taenia canis lagopodis .
Naunyn 's experiments were performed in Berlin in 1863 .
J He administered to two dogs the contents of a hydatid of the liver which contained Echinococcus heads , and which had been obtained from a woman operated upon by puncture of the cyst .
One of the dogs , which was examined twenty-eight days subsequently , contained no intestinal worms ; but in the second one Naunyn found , on the thirty-fifth day after the feeding , examples of Taenia echinococcus from one to one and a half lines in length .
The chief drawbacks to * * Krabbe , during a visit to Iceland in 1873 , examined 100 dogs procured from various parts of the country , and found Tcenia echinococcus in 28 instances .
f Krabbe found this parasite in more than one-fifth of all the Icelandic- dogs ( over 100 of all ages ) examined by him .
It seems to be a peculiar species , whose genetic history is not yet known .
Krabbe and Cobbold regard it as identical with the Toenia litterata of Batsch .
Be that as it may , its frequent presence in Icelandic dogs seriously vitiates the results of the experimental feedings of M. Krabbe .
% " Ueber die zu Echinococcus hominis gehorige Taenie , " Reichert und du Bois-Keymond 's Archiv fur Anatomy und wissensch .
Medicin , 1863 .
Heft IV , p. 412 .
1885 .
] the Dog bred from the Echinococci of Man .
Naunyn 's experiments are , the complete failure in one instance , and the apparent absence of any precautions to prevent prior accidental infection in the other case .
The Author 's Experiments .
On 25th June , 1883 , I purchased four puppies , which were said to be a cross between a bloodhound and a mastiff .
At the time they came into my possession they were seven weeks old , and up to that moment they had never left a small enclosed yard , in which their mother was chained .
Beyond the maternal milk , they had received no food , except cooked scraps from the kitchen of their owner , and indeed very little of anything1 except their mother 's milk .
On the evening of June 25th they were enclosed in a recently disused powder magazine , situated on the North Park Lands , Adelaide .
The magazine in question is now the property of the University of Adelaide , and its use for the purpose of these experiments was kindly granted to me by the Council of the University .
During the seclusion of the dogs , they received only oooTted food from my own kitchen , and rain water collected from the roof of the magazine , and stored in a new tank within the magazine enclosure .
The animals remained in good health and grew rapidly .
Experiment No. 1.\#151 ; On July 5th I aspirated a hydatid tumour situated in the epigastrium of a woman , who was then a patient under my care in the Adelaide Hospital .
Two ounces of nearly clear hydatid fluid were removed , and as I thought I could see with the naked eye a few groups of scolices floating in the fluid , I administered it , mixed with milk , to one of the dogs .
The feeding took place about two hours after the fluid was removed from the human body .
The dog continued in good health , and was killed by prussic acid on August 5th , on the 31st day after the feeding .
No tapeworms were found , but several ascarides were present in the small intestine .
This experiment was therefore quite negative in its results ; but as the patient had been some years previously operated on for the same hydatid , and as consequently it is very doubtful whether any living scolices were administered , it was used only in establishing the original freedom of the dogs from Echinococcus .
Experiment No. 2'.\#151 ; For some months it was impossible to procure any living scolices , but on October 16th I fortunately met with a suitable case .
The patient , a healthy young man , aged twenty-five , was found to have a hydatid cyst on the upper surface of ' the liver , which was aspirated by me on October 16th , 188*3 .
Twelve ounces of perfectly normal hydatid fluid were removed .
Upon microscopic examination , a considerable number of seoliees , mostly collected into groups , were found .
454 Dr. J. D. Thomas .
Taenia Echinococcus [ June 18 The fluid was allowed to stand in a decantation glass , protected from dust by a glass shade , for a couple of hours , and the bulk of the supernatant fluid was then poured off .
Three and a half hours after its removal from the man , about half the residue , containing many groups of scolices , was poured down the throat of one of the dogs ; most of it seemed to be swallowed , but some was coughed up .
Milk was then poured down the dog 's throat , and afterwards a further quantity of milk was supplied in a vessel ; this was readily lapped by the animal .
On the next day , October 17th ( about sixteen hours after the fluid was obtained ) , most of the remaining scolices were administered , being poured down the throat of the dog in about an ounce of their native fluid .
As before , a supply of milk followed , this time with the addition of breadsops .
Twenty-nine hours after the removal of the hydatid fluid , I examined some of the contained scolices , and found a considerable portion of them alive and moving actively on the hot stage ( temp. 100 ' F. ) .
On November 18th ( days after the feeding ) the dog was killed with chloroform , and the small intestine and stomach were carefully examined by Dr. Whittell and myself .
No appearance of Taenia echinococcus could be recognised on the lining of the intestine , but a great number of Taenia cumu-merina were noticed , partly in the lower portions of the upper half of the small intestine , and in greater numbers in the lower half .
No round worms could be found .
The lining membrane was washed with warm water , and the washings were then carefully examined .
In the washings of the upper half we found about 100 specimens of Taenia echinococcus , out of which about eighty complete worms were collected ; many terminal points also were seen .
In the washings of the lower half of the bowel , I found six complete specimens .
These Taenia were evidently unripe , and none of them showed four points , or indeed proglottides containing ripe hard-shelled eggs .
Many of them had three segments , including the bead , but not a few consisted only of a head , unsegmented neck , and one terminal proglottis .
In the terminal joint , the cirrus , cirrus-sac , and coiled vas deferens were seen , and in some cases faint indications of egg-formation .
The head showed the usual suckers and rostellum , and in several cases a double circlet of hooklets .
The worms varied from about ^ to .S\#166 ; inch ( one to one and a half lines ) in length , and were so fragile that a portion of the brood , carried carefully in a bottle containing camphor water for a distance of a few miles , were found by Dr. Whittell to be , without a single exception , broken into separate segments .
The circlets of hooks were usually absent or incomplete , probably in consequence of mechanical injury , but in one instance a complete crown was found .
1885 .
] the Dog bred from the Echinococci of Man .
455 However , in consequence of the position of the head of this specimen on the slide , it is difficult to accurately count the hooks .
They appear to be from thirty-five to forty in number .
The dimensions of the hooklets , as measured by Dr. Whittell , were : \#151 ; Maximum length , inch ; length of root-processes , x^Vo inch \gt ; greatest transverse diameter at junction of claw with root-processes , inch .
The root-processes were well developed .
It should be mentioned that on October 14 , i.e. , four days before the date of the examination , this dog was allowed by a careless attendant to escape for twenty-four hours from the magazine ; but as it was known to have concealed itself on the premises of a neighbour for the whole of the time , and as it was impossible for it to have procured any meat in this period , the experiment cannot be regarded as vitiated .
Besides the short space of time ( four days ) that intervened between the temporary escape of the dog and its examination , renders it certain that the specimens of Taenia echinococcus found were the result of the experimental feeding thirty-two days before .
As regards the specimens of Taenia cucumerina present , these owed their origin to dog-lice swallowed by the animal , and the lice themselves were no doubt communicated to the dog in its babyhood by its mother .
Experiment No. 3.\#151 ; A third dog was , on November 16 , 1883 , fed upon a considerable number of daughter cysts and scolices procured from the body of a woman who died of phthisis at the Adelaide Hospital on the afternoon of the previous day .
A further " feeding " from the same source was administered on the morning of the 17th .
Living scolices were found present in a portion of this " feeding " ten hours after the rest had been given to the dog .
On December 10 , 1883 , Dr. Dunlop , of the Adelaide Hospital , supplied me with about 8 ounces of nearly clear hydatid fluid containing a great number of scolices .
The fluid had been obtained from two hydatids occupying the pelvis of a woman who had died on December 9th .
A considerable dose of the scolices mixed with milk was given to the same dog twenty-five and a half hours after the decease of the patient .
This " feeding " contained some living scolices , but the majority of those examined upon the hot stage exhibited no movement when warmed , and hence were probably dead .
On December 30th , forty-four days after the first feeding , and twenty days after the second dose of scolices , the small intestine of this dog was examined by Dr. Whittell and myself .
Contrary to expectation , we found no ripe Tsenia echinococcus ; but after a patient examination we found one , but juvenile specimen of this worm , and the terminal joints of seven others .
These were quite young , being very small ( about one-twelfth inch when complete ) , and extremely fragile .
However , the specimens showed plain indications of the generative organs , but no distinct 456 Taenia Echinococcus the and Man .
[ June 18 , egg- formation .
It was evident that the Taeniae present were the result of the second feeding , so that they were twenty days old .
The only complete worm found had three distinct joints ( including the head ) , but it had lost its hooklets , probably from the endosmosis of water .
It is likely that in the case of both " feedings " most of the scolices were either dead or dying , for the fluid in which they were contained showed signs of commencing decomposition .
This probably accounts for the small number of Taeniae found in the dog .
Besides the specimens of Taenia echinococcus , there were some hundreds of Taenia cucumerina , and one small ascaris in the small intestine .
Experiment No. 4.\#151 ; In this case I thought it advisable to vary the mode of experiment , and to administer a vermifuge to the dog prior to the .experimental feeding .
As I could not recall a single instance in which I had found Taenia cucumerina absent from the intestines of the stray dogs examined by me in Adelaide , it appeared to me that the absence of this worm in a dog , sifter the administration of a vermifuge , would be good presumptive evidence that all other entozoa had been also removed by the medicine .
A male black and tan terrier which had been in my possession for three or four weeks , enclosed in the powder magazine , received on May 27 , 1884 , 80 grains of kamala in milk , and two days later a second similar dose was administered .
On June 1st the dog seemed to be well , and a dose of echinococcus heads ( procured by puncture of a hydatid cyst of the right lung in one of my patients ) was administered in a little milk .
On July 13th , forty-twodays after the feeding , the dog was poisoned with prussic acid and examined .
The small intestine contained semi-fluid brown matter apparently more " bilious " than usual , and the lower end of the small intestine was unusually red , and apparently congested .
After a careful search I found one specimen of Taenia echinococcus ; it was quite perfect , and when first examined , it showed a contraction at the neck , apparently having a head , a short neck , and three succeeding segments .
The contraction in the neck shortly disappeared , and when mounted in glycerine and stained with picro-carmine , the worm contracted greatly , especially in length .
Faint indications of ovum-formation were visible in the posterior segment .
A drawing of this specimen was made by Dr. Dunlop immediately after its removal from the dog 's intestine .
A very close examination of this dog 's intestine was made , and there were found a few very small and evidently juvenile round worms , and the heads and necks of many Teenise cucumerina .
These young tapeworms rarely exceeded a quarter of an inch in length , and none were found over one-third of an inch long .
There was not a single worm with distinct proglottides .
1885 .
] Taenia Echinococcus the Domestic Dog .
It seemed clear to me that all the entozoa present were bred after the effect of the doses of kamala had passed away , and consequently that the specimen of Taeniae echinococcus was forty-two days old , and the product of the experimental " feeding .
" Summary .
In three out of the four dogs experimented upon , Taenia echinococcus was found , and in the unsuccessful case it is doubtful whether living scolices were given to the dog .
The dogs were examined at various periods after the feedings , viz. , 20 , 32 , 42 days , and the Taeniae found corresponded in stage of development with the interval of time that had elapsed since the feeding .
I am indebted to Dr. Dunlop , of the Adelaide Hospital , for the drawings of the Taeniae bred in the experiments recorded , and also for the illustrations of ripe Taeniae procured from stray dogs , examined by me in Adelaide .
XIII .
" Note upon the frequent Occurrence of Echinococcus in the Domestic Dog in certain parts of Australia .
" By John Davies Thomas , M.D. ( Lond. ) , F.R.C.S. ( Eng. ) , lately Physician to the Adelaide Hospital and Member of the Council of the University of Adelaide .
Communicated by T. S. Cobbold , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1885 .
From the well-known prevalence of hyatid disease ( both in man and the domestic herbivora ) in certain parts of the Australian continent , it might naturally be expected that Echinococcus should be often found in the domestic dogs of these parts , but as far as I know , no investigation had been made by any observer with a view to the determination of the point in question .
Accordingly , towards the close of the year 1882 , I commenced an inquiry into the matter , and although I have been prevented by the claims of my daily professional duties from an exhaustive investigation of the point , yet the facts already ascertained fully account for the very serious prevalence of hyatid disease in the localities where investigation has been made .
Dogs were examined at the following places in South Australia:\#151 ; 1 .
In the city of Adelaide ; 2 .
At Mount Gambier ; 3 .
At Millicent ; 4 .
At Penola .
The three last-named places are situated in the south-eastern district of the province , which is the most highly infected part of Australia as regards hyatid disease .

