PHILOSOPHICAL TR"A N SA CT I NS .
VII .
, On Bairy-rings .
Jy W.H , Wollaston , M. D. Se .
R. S. Read Ma~rh i t , 18t7 .
Tn i cidrces of dark-green grass frequently observed in old pastures , and known to most persons by the 'name of Fairytings , although in themselves of no iimportance , yet seem to claim -some attention , if weconsider themany ingeniousiattempts that havt -h been made:to explain their origin .
On such a subjSct I shall b:e excued offering any examination of opinions previously formed by others , and shall therefore proceed briefly to relate such observations asi made , during a fewyears residence in the country , on the progressive changes bfthese circles , and hich seem to me to lead to aclear atndsatisfacory conclusion .
That which first attracted my notice , wasthe position of certain fungi which are always to:be fund growingupon these tircles , if examine in a proper season .
In the case of nushrooms , I found them to be solely at the ; e:t erior margin of the dark ring of grass .
The breadth of the ring in that isstince , teas~uredifrom them toward the centre , was about ; twelve 0 or -fcirteehf ; s intihes , while:the mushrooms th4mectld eo'tedaiO -'iee &amp; tiof 'Triig a'but four or five inches broad .
T1i~ ']osiktilri f ihesevmu'tliro0intedm'e to conjecture that iprorsgiv ihtrede frboiI a cetihral point , was theh probable fodaeof f6imfioi b6ftie ' ii .
I Ws , the more inclined to this hyfipHi ; , Wlhbit hl fTii &amp; a thatia second spedies of fungus preserite'h &amp; Sti lflik , ari/ ni ent ; w ' ith respect to the relative posititiSi bf tip:ing-'a'fiirgfi .
f for I obiterved , that in all inthanCe~ thb 4pPPi4wst !
it ' ap p/ t re fulig:ji Wa iipon the exterior border of a dark ring of grass .
I thought it not improbable that.tPte ' i ?
hi ehr^i1itrOhc ; 'onttbite t:ti6 the .
support of fiagi- , niliht be &amp; tb exthiasted:iof sot6e pdcfiiarpabulum necessaryt foithbiiif p odetklni g the rendered incapable of producing ' acseonde-bi Wotthat^siigular class of vegetables .
The iec6ifid y'eairfs ci4op would cossquently appear in a small ring surrounding the original centre of vegetation , and at every suicc6difif:yarJ thi defect of nutriment onon-oe side would etsaiil-y causse the iew -roots to 'extend Athemselves solely in the oppmsiteb dircti t , and wou6ld occasion the circle of fungi 6ontiinually to jprceied lbyanieul enlargement from the centre outiaiJ'd^s A ' appea fance ; if liuxuriance of the grass would follow s : a ihatui consequenice , as the soil of an interior circle would aiaysbe enrnih'di-by the decayed roots of fungiof the preceding years growth .
: By refeience to Dr. HutrobN^ ' Observations on certain niatual appearaices'of the ground of thei hill of Arthur 's Seat mnear : Edihiburgih , ' we find the progressive enlargement fedinbluYgh Transaitions .
Sig distinctly noticed ; but as he happened not to observe any of the fungi that occasioned them , ie speaks qfit , merely as a piece of natural history worth ; reording , and for whidh , a theory is wanting .
" Respecting the enlargementihe sa " from all:e obse vations I have made , this progress seems aays to have pro ceeded in the direction of a line bisecting the segment , that is to say , those portions of concentric circles are never inscribed but always circumscribed ; and for this reason it appeari* that those circles of which segments are exhibited to our 'servation must be increasing and not diminishing : in:tei diameters .
" Although Dr. HuTTON has overlpoked thereal Ogin qfth , et appearances , Dr. WITHERING has ascribed them to tleir , trwu cause ; but his remarks are confined , lto e ; speiei , of igaric ( the Ag .
orcades of his Arrangement ) ; and 4 , onqt Ippe are :taXeW been confirmed by any subsequent observactinqooftjhe'i nuaI progress .
" I am satisfied , " says he , :^that , the bare and ibro , wn , or highly cloathed and verdant circles in pasture fielda called Fairy-rings are caused bythegrowthofthis agarc .
' .
; W re the ring is brown and almost are , :by digging , tp , il ?
tL the depth of about two inches , th:spawn of the fungus.wil be found of a ; greyish white colour ; bt when thegrasp has again grown green and rank I have never found any of the spawn existing .
" Had Dr. WITHEImNG frequently repea'ted thexni'ti n of the soil he would have corrected the ; last repark , ; wii .
A ia not universally true , as the grass may at , some peri , o abeqfouni luxuriant even over the undecayed spawi .
During the growth Ta of the fungi , they so etirely bsorb all nutrimtent freo the soil:ibeneath t-at the -herbage i for a while destroyed , and a ring appease r_ e ofgrass surrounding the dark ring .
If a transverse section be made of the soil beneaththe ring at this tim ti p bt o ath tbeng:i Rpea paler than the soil on either : fit , tt thati , whh4is , b.leth the m interior circ o dark gr i is oundjo coty , to be considerably darker than thei generl a sttrouding soil , ,:But in the course of a few weeks sftr th , l fungi have cleaed to-appear , the soil where tfhey , o 4 gro daker , and 4the : gr#ssopn egetates again with ptfidliaryvigotl ; -sothat I sa th suracecovered with dark grass , although the darkened soil has not exceeded half an .
inchiA thiknes , wh^ile:t beneah hascontinued whte : with spawn @ for.about two inches in tepth .
The seetion of th spaoCiedhp by the white spawn has In general nearly the say , o rma and may be compared to that of a wave , proceeding fTom theentre outwards , as its boundary on the inner side ascends obliquely toward the surface , while itsexteiortermmination is nearly in a vertical-position , The extent occupied tbythe , spawn ; 1 varies cosideably , accrding to the season of the year , eing greatest after the fungi have come to perfection , and is.reduced to its:sallest , dimensions , and may -inm -ae sest not be- : is ?
ernie befo re the 'next year 's crop begin t-W make ; th eira gpearance* For the : ptrpse of oserving , the progress of various circie I marked them three or four years in succession , by incisions of differenoBi : m by which:od dicstinguish clearly the successive anual increasq , , and , I found it to vary in dif .
ferent circles from : eight inches , to as much as twou feet .
The broadest rings that I have seen were those of the common muAshrm GAg msi ) ; thje arotwest are e the.ost fre .
quent , and are thosg , of the chamnpigon ( Ag._ orc4dea of Dr. WITHER)INO ) , The muhom accordingly makes circles of largest di.am etea , ~btit .
those eaf .
tchampignon are most regular : : Thee are ?
4pwer , 43s many Xa tret -tbher lfuigi that exhibi t !
heiame:gfdne~of e !
tension , and:producet the same effeet upon : th.eher bag , : ; These a 4m t-te reiUr , Ag.procans , and.thq ?
:yfXoper4 ?
tblt , The~ last:of B hich is far ; , more ComrQno thnthet twolast eoxdX ai : : a::aThere is one : circvmstan that may frequently b-j obs erved respecing:these cirles , wi ca sfi asfaorily be accounted for , according to the preceding -hypothesisof the cave of their increase , and may be considered as a confirmation of its truth .
Whenever two adjacent circles are found to interfere , they not only do not cross each other , but both circles are invariably obliterated between the points of contact : , at least in more than twenty cases , I have seen no one instance to the contrary .
The exhaustion occasioned by each obstructs the progress of the other , and both are starved .
I think it also not unworthy of observation , tiat different species of fungi appear to require the same nutriment ; for in a case of interference between one circle of puffrballs and another of mushrooms , they did not intersect ; but I cannot say positively that I have seen more than one instance .
I once found that a tree had interrupted the regular progress of a circle ; but this appeared to be only a temporary inpediment , as the extension had proceeded at the usual rate , and by passing obliquely from each side into the soil beyond the tree , had given the ring the form of a kidney , so that 1:37 another year or two would probably reunite the two extret mities into one curve surrounding he tree .
Being desirous of ascertaining in what length of time a soil might again recover the power of producinga fresh ro of.fungi , I cut a groove , in one or two instances , alohg the diameter of a mushroom-ring , and inserted a quantity of spawn taken from its circumference , with the hope ofseeing it vege~tate for some distance near the center ; but the experiment failed altogether : and as I shortly after quitted my residence in the country , I had no opportunity'of repeating the experi2ment , and .
must leave it to be prosecuted by those who are more favourably circumstanced .

