March 8 , 1832 .
WILLIAM GEORGE MATON , M.D. Vice-President , in the Chair .
The reading of Dr. Marshall Hall 's paper , entitled " On the Inverse Ratio which subsists between Respiration and Irritability in the Any ?
mal Kingdom ; and on Hybernation , " was concluded .
The object of the author , in the investigation which he has undertaken , and of which some of the results are given in the present paper , is to establish a law of the animal economy , which he expresses in the following terms : " The quantity of the respiration is inversely as the degree of the irritability .
" Other authors , such as Cuvier , attaching a different meaning to the term irritability , have stated this property , in the different classes of animals , as being directly proportional to the energy of the respiratory functions j the purposes of which they have considered to be those of restoring to the exhausted muscular fibre its contractile power .
The author of the present paper regards animal life as consisting in two essential ingredients , namely , stimulus and irritability ; atmospheric air being the principal source of the former ; the heart , where it exists , being the principal organ of the latter ; and the blood being the medium by which these are brought into contact .
For the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of respiration in any given animal , the author contrived an apparatus , to which he gives the name of the iP ?
ieumatometer\ It consists of a glass jar inverted over mercury , and over the mouth of a bent tube , by which it communicates with a water-gauge of one tenth the capacity of the jar .
Annexed to this apparatus , but unconnected with it , is a glass ball , containing ten cubic inches , and terminating in a tube , bent at its upper part , and of the capacity of one cubic inch , and inserted into a wider tube containing water , so as to correspond in all its pneumatic conditions with the jar and its gauge , and to point out whatever changes may have taken place in the volume of the air examined in the course of the experiment , from circumstances extraneous to it , such as variations of temperature , or of barometrical pressure .
The animal , whose respiration is to be examined , is placed on a stand and covered with a jar 5 and the carbonic acid produced is absorbed by pieces of calico moistened with a strong solution of caustic potass , fixed by a wire frame in the upper part of the jar .
The animal , at the end of the experiment , is withdrawn under mercury , without displacing the jar ; the space it had occupied is filled with an equal volume of atmospheric air admitted into the jar j and the volume of oxygen gas absorbed is estimated by the column of water which has risen in the gauge .
From the facts detailed by Harvey , Goodwyn and others , which establish that in asphyxia the left ventricle of the heart ceases to contract before the right ventricle , the author infers that the irrita ?
bility of the latter is greater than that of the former ; and proposes 10(i to distinguish the first as arterio corttract'de , and the latter as veno* contraclile , from the circumstance of their being slimulated respectively by arterial and by venous blood .
He considers the power of hearing suspended respiration as ameasure of irritability , which may be exprcssed by the length of time during which an animal can sup ?
port the suspension of this function .
He then shows that , conformably to these definitions , the foetus before birth , the reptile , and the molluscous animal possess a much higher degree of irritability than the adult , or than animals belonging to the class of mammalia and birds ; in which the quantity of respiration being very great , the irritability is proportionally small .
He then proceeds to consider the phaanomena of hybernation ; and shows that they are very similar to those of the ordinary sleep of the same animals , but differ from those of the sleep of animals which do not hybernate .
in the former case the respiration is nearly , if not wholly , suspended , and the temperature greatly reduced ; but the circulation continues unimpaired .
He notices differences also in the habits of different hybernating animals , some of which frequently awake from their slumber during the winter , while with others the lethargy is uninterrupted .
The state of hybernation should , he thinks , be carefully distinguished from the torpor induced by excessive cold ?
the former being a conservative , the latter a destructive process .
The exclusion of atmospheric air , which is speedily fatal to the animal in its active state , is sustained with perfect impunity during hybernation , the respiration being then entirely suspended .
The animal being at such times reduced to a state analogous to that of the reptile , but in a still higher degree , the irritability is much increased : the heart continues to beat without the stimulus of aerated blood , and the circulation is kept up with perfect regularity .
This latter fact was ascertained by actual observation in the case of the bat , by adjusting the wing of the animal , so as to admit of its being placed in the field of a microscope without disturbing its repose .
The experiments of Mangili are quoted in proof of the longer continuance of the action of the heart after decapitation , if the experiment be made in the hybernating state , than if it be made when the animal is in its ordinary state of acti ?
vity .
Animals , during hybernation , are easily rouscJ from their le ?
thargy , and restored to sensibility and activity ; and the muscles do not appear to be affected with the slightest rigidity : the respiration is immediately resumed , and the temperature rises rapidly to the natural standard .
The hedgehog and the dormouse awake periodically from the sense of hunger , and the food then taken conduces to renewed lethargy .
But frequent excitation from this state is productive of great exhaustion , and is often fatal to the animal .
Severe cold , like other causes producing a painful impression , rouses the hybernating animal from its state of lethargy ; and if continued , induces a state of torpor , which ends in death .

