lII .
" On Cyanide of Ethylene and Suceinic Acid ?
'-Preliminary Notice .
By MAXWELL SIMPsoN , Ph. D. Communicated by Dr. FRANKLAND , F. R.S. 1Received August 1 , 1860 .
Suceinic acid bears the same relation to the diatomic alcohol ( glycol ) that propionic acid bears to ordilnary alcohol .
Propionic acid cani be obtained by treating the cyaniide of the alcohol radical with potash .
Can succinic acid be obtained by treating the cyanide of the glycol radical with the same reagent , or is it an isomeric acid that is formed under these circumstances ?
C H5a Cy+2{ K +2HO_O { CjII5 02 + NHj .
Cyanide of ethyl .
Propionate of potash .
Qc H^ 2Cy+2(02 { i+4Ho0=o0 C8 IQ+ 2NH .
Cyanide of ethylene .
Succinate of potash ?
The following experiments were performed with the view of determining this point : Preparation of Cyanide of Ethylene.-As a preliminary step to the formation of succinic acid in this way , it became of course necessary to prepare the cyanide of ethylene .
This body I obtained by submitting bromide of ethylene to the action of cyanide of potassium .
The process was thus conducted:-A mixture of two equivalents of the cyanide and one of the bromide was introduced into a large balloon , together with a considerable quantity of alcohol , sp. gr. -840 , and exposed to the temperature of a water-bath , a Liebig 's condenser having been previously attached to the balloon in such a manner as to prevent the alcohol from distilling off the reacting ingredients .
As soon as all the cyanide of potassium had been converted inito bromide , the alcohol was separated and distilled .
A semifluid residue was thus obtained , which was filtered at the temperature of 1000 Cent. On treating the filtrate with a saturated solution of chloride of calcium , a reddish oil rose to the surface , which was well washed with ether , and exposed for some time to the temperature of 1400 , in order to remove any bromide of ethylene that might have escaped the solvent action of the ether .
This body proved , on analysis , to be cyanide of ethylene .
It was not , however , quite pure .
There are difficulties attending its complete purification which I have not yet overcomee At the temperature of the air , cyanide of ethylene is a semisolid crystalline mass of a brownish colour .
It melts under 50 ?
Cent. It is very soluble in water and alcohol , and sparingly soluble in ether .
It cannot be distilled .
Nevertheless it bears a tolerably high temperature without suffering much decompositioni .
Heated with an alcoholic solution of potash , it gives off arrmmonia .
Treated with nitric acid , it forms a body which crystallizes from alcohol in long needles .
This and some other reactions I am at present engaged in studying .
Preparation of Suceinic Alcid.-Bromide of ethylene and cyallide of potassium were made to react upon each other in the same maniner as in the preparation of the cyanide of ethylene .
As soon as the reaction was complete , the alcohol was separated from the bromide of potassium , some sticks of caustic potash were added to it , and the whole heated for several days by means of a water-bath .
Torrents of aninoniawere given off on applying the heat .
As soon as the evolution of this gas had ceased , the alcohol was distilled off and the residue treated with a considerable excess of hydrochloric acid .
This was then heated gently as lonig as acid vapours continued to be evolved , digested with absolute alcohol , and filtered , and then the filtrate was evaporated to dryness .
The dry mass thus obtained was treated several times with alcohol in a similar manner .
The result of these repeated digestions was then dissolved in water , and a few drops of a solution of nitrate of silver were added to it , which occasionied a slight precipitate of chloride of silver .
This was separated by filtration , and the filtrate was exactly neutralized with ammonia .
On adding excess of nitrate of silver to this , an abundant white precipitate was obtained , very soluble in nitric acid and ammonia .
This gave , on analysis , numbers agreeing very well with the composition of succinate of silver .
The acid itself possessed also all the properties of succinic acid .
It sublimed on the application of heat , was soluble in water , alcohol , and ether , and gave , when neutralized , a reddish-brown precipitate with perchloride of iron .
Moreover , on digesting this precipitate with ammonia , an acid could be detected in the filtered liquor , which gave white precipitates with nitrate of silver , and with a mixture of chloride of barium and alcohol .
Succinic acid can then be obtained from glycol in the same manner as propionic acid from ordinary alcohol ; the bromide of ethylene , the point from which I started , being capable of derivation from the diatomic alcohol .
I propose extending this inivestigation to some other hydrocarbons of the series Cn Hn , with the view of ascertaining whether or not the homologues of succinic acid can be obtained from these bodies by a similar process .

