14 Proceedings , February 7 , 1901 .
portion of clay .
That this is the case , as compared with sodium salts , is beyond doubt ( see paper by the late Dr. A. Voelcker , " On the Composition of the Waters of Land Drainage , " 'Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society of England , ' 1874 ) ; but the series of analyses of the Broadbalk subsoils that has now been made by means of weak citric acid solution , shows that potash , though " fixed " relatively to soda , is far more migratory than phosphoric acid , and descends much lower into the subsoil .
At the same time it appears probable that a portion of it passes into a fixed and stable form of combination , from which weak citric acid fails to dislodge it .
The results yielded by the samples of soil and subsoil taken from the same plots at the different periods afford instructive comparisons , notwithstanding the age of the earlier samples at the time of their examination , which might have been expected to be responsible for considerable modifications in the condition of the less stable chemical compounds contained in them .
In consequence of the death of Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria , which took place on the 22nd of January , the meetings of the Society were suspended , by order of the President , until after the funeral of Her late Majesty , which took place on the 2nd February .
February 7 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The President , in moving that a dutiful Address of Condolence and Homage be drawn up and presented by the Council of the Society to His Most Gracious Majesty the King , said:\#151 ; " The crape upon our Mace would remind us , if indeed we needed to be reminded , of the sorrow which is uppermost in every heart .
AA e mourn to-day the greatest Queen the world has known\#151 ; truly great by the supreme example She set , in Her own person , of sustained nobility of purpose , and of devotion to duty , and by the influence of Her wise and understanding heart , for the world 's good , upon the councils of the Empire .
We mourn more than a great Queen\#151 ; a gracious Lady who by the brightness of Her domestic virtues , and Her rare power of kindly sympathy with Her subjects in all their joys and sorrows , had in a real sense become the Mother of Her Peoples .
As Fellows of this Society , we mourn further a Sovereign Patron , who by Her enlightened encouragement and protection , has made possible through the sixt\ Proceedings and List of Papers read .
15 three years of Her reign , an ' improvement of natural knowledge , ' not only unprecedented , but even beyond the wildest dreams of the most enthusiastic of the Fellows who welcomed Her at Her accession\#151 ; so much so , indeed , that the Victorian Age has become synonymous with the Scientific Age .
" But , though dead She yet speaks to us through His Gracious Majesty the King , Her Son , a Fellow of this Society , whose words of yesterday are still in our ears , \#163 ; that it would be his constant endeavour to walk in Her footsteps .
' We join in most loyal and heartfelt wishes that His Majesty may long reign over a united and prosperous Empire ; and that under His fostering care Science may continue to advance with even accelerated steps .
" The motion was seconded by Lord Lister and carried in silence , the Fellows present rising from their seats .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; The Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen , determined by Hydrogen and Helium Gas Thermometers .
" By Professor Dewar , F.R.S. " On the Brightness of the Corona of January 22 , 1898 .
Preliminary Note .
" By Professor H. H. Turner , F.R.S. " Preliminary Determination of the Wave-lengths of the Hydrogen Lines , derived from Photographs taken at Ovar at the Eclipse of the Sun , May 28 , 1900 .
" By F. W. Dyson .
Communicated by the Astronomer Royal , F.R.S. " Investigations on the Abnormal Outgrowths or Intumescences on Hibiscus vitifolius , Linn. : a Study in Experimental Plant Patholo-logy .
" By Miss E. Dale .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward , F.R.S. " On the Proteid Reaction of Adamkiewicz , with Contributions to the -Chemistry of Glyoxylic Acid .
" By F. G. Hopkins and Sydney W. Cole .
Communicated by Dr. Langley , F.R.S. " The Integration of the Equations of Propagation of Electric Waves .
" By Professor Love , F.R.S.

