4 .
" On the Powers on which the Functions of Life depend in the more perfect Animals , and on the Manner in which these Powers are asso ?
ciated in their more complicated results .
" By A. P. W. Philip , M.D. , F.R.S. This paper is divisible into three portions .
In the first , the author considers the functions and seat of each of the powers of the living animal ; in the second , the nature of each power ; and in the third , the manner in which they are associated in the more complicated results which constitute life .
Of these powers the simplest is the muscular , which consists merely in a contractile power residing in the muscular fibre itself : and various experiments are referred to in proof that it depends exclusively on the state of this fibre , and in no degree on that of the nervous system , which some physiologists have regarded as the real seat of this power : for , instead of being recruited , it is exhausted by the action of the nervous system upon it , as it is by other stimulants .
The next power considered is that of the nervous system , properly so called , in contradistinction to the sensorial system .
The result of an extensive series of experiments made with a view to establish the exact line of distinction between these two systems , is that the functions of the nervous power are as remarkable for their complexity as that of the muscular power is for its simplicity .
With regard to the nervous power it is shown that its functions ( all of which are capable of existing after the sensorial power is withdrawn , and all of which fail when the nervous power is withdrawn , ) are the following : 1 .
The excitement of the muscles of voluntary motion in all their actions ; 2 .
The occasional excitement of the muscles of involuntary motion - , 3 .
The maintenance of the process by which animal temperature is maintained ; 4 .
The maintenance of the various processes of secre ?
tion ; 5 .
The maintenance of the processes of assimilation .
It farther appears , from several experiments , that the seat of the nervous power is exclusively in the brain and spinal cord ; not , however , in any particular part , but in the whole extent of these organs , from the uppermost surface of the former to the lowest portion of the latter ; with the exception only that the lower portions of the spinal cord partake less of this power than the rest .
It appears also that the nerves are only the medium of conveying the influence of the above-mentioned organs j and their ganglions and plexuses are only the means of com ?
bining the power of all the parts of these organs ; such combination being shown to be necessary to the due excitement of the muscles of involuntary motion , and for the maintenance of the functions of secre ?
tion and assimilation .
The remaining powers of the living animal are the sensorial powers , and the powers of the living blood .
The first of these classes of powers has its seat , not in the whole brain and spinal cord , as is the case with the nervous power , properly so called , but in certain parts of them ; these parts being , in man , almost wholly confined to the brain ; while in some animals they extend also to a considerable portion of the spinal cord .
The functions of the sensorial powers are those strictly termed mental , of which sensation and volition are the simplest , and the only powers of this class which are concerned in the maintenance of life .
' The functions of the living blood are evidently those of supplying the proper materials , in their requisite condition , ( to the preservation of which the vital powers are essential , ) for the action of the nervous power , properly so called , in the processes of secretion and assimilation .
The seat of the powers of the blood is in itself ; as appears from its retaining them for a short time after it is separated from the body .
These four vital powers , viz. the muscular , the nervous , the sen ?
sorial , and that of living blood , have no direct dependence on one another ; for each can , for however short a time , exist independently of the others : but each has an indirect dependence , more or less remote , on all the other three for the maintenance of their organs .
The author then proceeds to inquire into the nature of these several powers .
The sensorial and muscular powers , and the powers of the living blood , are manifestly peculiar to the living animal , no ana ?
logous powers being perceptible in inanimate nature .
But this exclusiveness does not belong to the nervous power , for experiment shows us that when the oxygen and carbon of the blood are combined by its influence , a substance results which is identical with that produced in the laboratory of the chemist .
An analogy , too strong to be wholly disregarded , exists therefore between its effects and those of the powers which operate in inorganic nature .
This consideration , as well as others stated by the author , induced him to make many experiments to determine how far the other functions of the nervous influence bear a similar analogy to the operations of inanimate nature ; and , in particular , to inquire whether voltaic electricity , applied under the same circumstances as those under which the nervous influence operates , and applied after the removal of that influence , and the consequent cessation of its functions , would produce the same effects .
His endeavours were crowned with complete success , all the functions of the nervous power being capable , as far as he and others could judge , of being perfectly performed by voltaic electricity .
He states that the results of his experiments on this subject were confirmed by a public repetition of them both in London and in Paris ; as were likewise those of another set of experiments suggested by the following rea ?
soning .
If the nervous influence could be made to pass through any other conductor than the nervous textures to which it belongs in the living animal , we should have a proof , independent of all other evi ?
dence , that this influence is not a vital power , properly so called ; because it must be universally admitted that such a power can exist only in the texture to which it belongs .
In this attempt he was for some time baffled ; but at length , overcoming the obstacles which had impeded his efforts , he succeeded : and , having undergone the same public ordeal as the former , the results are no longer questioned .
From the whole of these experiments the author thinks himself warranted in concluding that the nervous influence is not a vital power , properly so called ; and that when it is admitted that voltaic electicity is capable of performing all its functions , the proposition that they are powers of a different nature would be a contradiction in terms , for it is only by its properties that any principle of action can be distinguished .
He refers , in confirmation of these inferences , to the recent inves ?
tigations of Mr. Faraday , from which it appears that electricity is the agent in all chemical processes j to the facts which prove that all the functions of the nervous influence , properly so called , are of a chemical nature ; and also to the late experiments of Dr. Davy on the Torpedo , tending to show that the electric power , peculiar to electric animals , is a function of the brain , and thus affording direct proof that the brain has the power of collecting and applying , even according to the dictates of the will , the electric power .
It farther appears , from the facts referred to in this paper , that , whenever we can trace any analogy between the functions of the liv ?
ing animal and the operations of inanimate nature , an agent belong ?
ing to the external world is employed ; that these functions are the results either of such agents acting on vital parts , or of vital parts acting on them ; and that the sensorial functions , on the other hand , in which no such analogy can be traced , are the effects of vital parts acting on each other , and influencing e &lt; ieh other by their vital properties alone .
In the concluding part of the paper the author considers the vari ?
ous functions of the living animal as forming two systems , in a great measure distinct from one another , in each of which all its powers are employed , but in very different ways : the object of the one of these systems being the maintenance of the body itself ; of the other , the maintenance of its intercourse with the external world .
The manner in which the different powers of the living animal are employed in the construction of each of these systems is pointed out ; and the bonds of union which exist between them , and thus form the living body into a whole , no part of which can be affected without tending more or less to affect every other , are considered .
These bonds of union consist chiefly in the employment of the same powers in the construction of both systems , and in the function of respiration , which so extensively influences all other functions both in health and disease , as pointed out by the author in his papers on the nature of sleep and death , and which differs from all the other vital functions in partakingof the sen ?
sorial as well as of all the other powers of the living animal .

