195 An Investigation of the Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
By Bichard B. Mooiie , B.Sc. ( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received June 23 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1908 .
) When Ramsay and Travers* first separated krypton and xenon from liquid air residues , they obtained about 12 c.c. of the former gas and 3 c.c. of the latter .
On sparking the xenon with oxygen over caustic potash and removing the excess of oxygen with phosphorus , a density of 64 was obtained , which would make this element , on the assumption that it is a monatomic gas , have an atomic weight of 128 .
This would place it in its proper place in the periodic table\#151 ; above iodine .
Consequently , if any other element of greater density were present in the xenon , the quantity would necessarily be very small .
Afterwards Ramsayf obtained 0'87 c.c. of xenon from 191T kilogrammes of air , which plainly indicated that any attempt to look for elements in the atmosphere of greater density than xenon would involve the handling of very large quantities of liquid air .
This difficulty has been surmounted through the courtesy of M. Georges Claude , and M. Andre Helbronner , of Paris , who very kindly furnished the necessary material .
The liquid air apparatus used by them is shown in % .
IThe cooled air , under a pressure of about 5 atmospheres , enters H , and ascending the series of tubes P , which are surrounded by liquid oxygen , is liquefied there progressively , that is to say , the oxygen being converted into a liquid at a higher temperature than the nitrogen , liquefies first and drips back into the receiver A. This liquid contains about 48 per cent , of oxygen .
The nitrogen meanwhile reaches B , and descending the tube F ' , is liquefied and collects in C , as almost pure liquid nitrogen .
The liquid in A ascends the tube R , and enters the fractionating tower , where the oxygen passes down and ultimately reaches the reservoir M. The nitrogen , carrying traces of oxygen , meanwhile ascends and meets with the nitrogen from C , which has arrived at the top of the tower by means of the tube R ' .
The last traces of oxygen are thus fractionated from the nitrogen , and the latter gas escapes through E practically pure .
This nitrogen and also the oxygen from M , which is used for commercial purposes , is led through " exchangers " ( not * 'Trans .
Roy .
Soc. , ' Series A , 197 .
t 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 421 , 1903 .
Prof. B. B. Moore .
An Investigation of the [ June 23 , shown ) which are used to lower the temperature of the air , which enters at H. These exchangers completely surround the apparatus shown in fig. 1 , o\#151 ; and serve to prevent loss of heat energy .
This loss , although small , is appreciable , and in order to replace it small quantities of liquid air may be run into the fractionating tower through the pipe N. The efficiency of the whole plant is about 95 per cent. Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
1908 .
] It can be seen at once that the light gases , helium and neon , would escape through E with the nitrogen , whilst the heavy gases , krypton and xenon , would be concentrated with practically no loss whatever , in the oxygen contained in the reservoir M. The majority of the argon accompanies the nitrogen ; a little is retained by the oxygen .
Therefore , at the end of any period of operation the oxygen in the reservoir M would contain all of the krypton and xenon , in addition to any other heavier gases which were originally in the air , passed through the apparatus .
In this way the krypton and xenon in several tons of air can be concentrated in 10 or 15 litres of liquid oxygen .
The first consignment of oxygen received represented the residues from 3 tons of air .
It was contained in a 5-litre vacuum flask , and was allowed to evaporate into the air until only about 1 litre of liquid remained .
The flask was then connected with a large gas-holder in which the oxygen was collected as it evaporated .
It was expected that the 5 litres of gas which remained behind in the Dewar flask would be very rich in the heavy rare gases , as it constituted the last fraction from 3 tons of air .
A preliminary test with a small portion of this gas showed that it was explosive , due to the presence of vapour of pentane which was used for lubricating the compressors at the liquid air plant .
The presence of this hydrocarbon was unfortunate , as the 5 litres of gas in the vacuum flask did not contain as much rare gas as it would otherwise have done .
The same trouble was met with in all the air that was subsequently worked up .
The pentane was got rid of by passing the gas over heated copper oxide , first passing it , however , through a capillary tube sealed on to another tube 5 mm. in diameter , completely filled with a roll of fine copper gauze .
When the gas reached the heated copper oxide it exploded back , but only as far as the copper gauze .
The flow of gas was regulated so that the explosions took place regularly , but not violently .
In this manner most of the oxygen present was used up in oxidising the pentane .
The gas obtained from this treatment was passed over heated copper and a strongly heated mixture of magnesium and lime , in order to remove the last traces of oxygen and nitrogen .
It was then stored over mercury .
Meanwhile , another consignment of liquid oxygen had been received from Paris .
It represented the residues from 16 tons of air .
The oxygen had been allowed to evaporate until it just filled a 5-litre vacuum flask .
The process of evaporation was continued at University College until 2 litres only of liquid remained , the gas from this last portion being collected in the same large gas-holder as before .
About 2500 litres of gas were thus stored 198 Prof. R. B. Moore .
An Investigation of the [ June 23 , over water .
The last fraction in the vacuum flask was worked up in exactly the same manner as described above , and the resulting rare gas was added to that already obtained .
The gas in the large reservoir consisted principally of oxygen , and in order to obtain the rare gases present this oxygen had first of all to be removed .
Using copper to absorb large quantities of oxygen is an extremely slow and laborious process .
If a small apparatus is used the copper is very soon oxidised and must be reduced .
Each time this change in procedure is made the gas in the apparatus must be pumped out and stored .
Large tubes containing a considerable amount of copper are almost equally objectionable .
It was therefore determined to make use of melted phosphorus as an absorbing agent instead of copper .
The apparatus used is shown in fig. 2 .
Fig. 2 .
C is a wash-bottle containing concentrated sulphuric acid , which served the double purpose of drying the gas and of indicating its rate of flow , which is regulated by the stop-cock G. D and E are phosphorus pentoxide tubes , and E is a bubbler , preferably containing concentrated sulphuric acid .
A is a round-bottomed Jena flask of 1 litre capacity , the delivery tube reaching to almost 2 inches above the surface of the melted phosphorus .
It is provided with a pressure gauge H. The whole apparatus must be , of course , perfectly air-tight .
Connections are made by good pressure tubing fastened with copper wire .
At first the apparatus was disconnected from the Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
1908 .
] receiving reservoir B and completely filled with carbon dioxide .
The stopper of H was then quickly removed and half-a-pound of dried phosphorus sticks dropped in .
The stopper was then reinserted , wired down , and connection made with the reservoir B , which was filled with dilute sodium hydroxide solution .
The temperature of the water bath was then raised to about 55 ' C. , and maintained at that point with only slight variations .
The oxygen from the large reservoir was then led slowly through the apparatus .
Its advent was at once signalled by a bright glow in the flask , which was maintained as long as the gas passed .
After once regulating , the apparatus needed very little attention , practically running-alone .
Bor the sake of safety , the work was carried on out of doors , but at no time was there an accident or trouble of any kind .
When one charge of phosphorus was used up , the gas in the apparatus was displaced by carbon dioxide , after which another flask with a fresh charge of phosphorus was substituted for the old one .
This apparatus was run practically continuously in the day-time for six weeks , during which time 5 pounds of phosphorus were used .
If the gas is rich in oxygen , phosphorus pentoxide is the chief product , some red phosphorus being also found .
In the case of a gas poor in oxygen , a good deal of trioxide is produced which distills over and tends to stop up the exit tubes .
About 100 litres of gas remained unabsorbed by the phosphorus .
This gas was passed over soda-lime , metallic copper , magnesium-lime mixture , and copper oxide .
This last substance oxidised any hydrogen or carbon monoxide given off by the magnesium and lime .
Sixteen combustion tubes containing magnesium and lime were required to remove the nitrogen present .
The residues in these tubes were kept for further examination .
By this means 6 litres of inactive gas were obtained and stored over water .
During the storage of the gas and during the progress of the work itself , nearly 3000 litres of water had been in contact with the gas .
Practically all of this water was kept .
Although the solubilities of krypton and xenon are not at present known , it is probable that the solubilities of the inactive gases increase with the densities and that the solubility of xenon is something like three times that of argon .
That being true , any new gas which might be present of a still higher density would be more soluble than xenon .
Although the partial pressure of such a gas in the large gas-holder would be very small , it was deemed advisable to boil at least a portion of the water used in this gas-holder , and all of that used in the smaller ones .
This was accomplished by means of an apparatus designed by Lord Kayleigh.* About * 'Phil .
Trans./ A , vol. 186 , p. 225 , 1895 .
Prof. R. B. Moore .
An Investigation of the [ June 23 , 1000 litres of water were boiled in this manner and the evolved gas carefully collected .
This gas was passed over copper , magnesium lime mixture , and copper oxide , and the residue added to the stock of inactive gas already obtained .
Any further quantities of water with which the gas came into contact during this process were also boiled and the gas worked up in the same manner .
Nearly 1 litre of inactive gas was thus obtained from the whole amount of water boiled .
The mixture of the rare gases from the two vacuum flasks was fractionated first .
This had been stored over mercury and was run into a bulb immersed in liquid air .
The gas readily liquefied .
It was then allowed to boil back into the mercury reservoir until a solid began to appear in the fractionating bulb .
The liquid air in which the bulb was immersed was removed , and as the solid changed to gas the latter was taken through a Topler pump and run into another mercury reservoir ( fraction 13 below ) .
The volume thus obtained was 200 c.c. The argon , with traces of krypton and xenon , was added to the main body of gas .
The latter , which consisted mostly of argon , was then fractionated .
The same apparatus was used .
The gas was run over soda lime and phosphorus pentoxide , and liquefied readily under the water pressure which could be exerted on the gasometer .
The ease with which the gas liquefied was due to the large percentage of krypton and xenon present .
It was then allowed to evaporate back under reduced pressure into a mercury reservoir and when this was full the gas was readily transferred to the water reservoir .
This was continued for two hours , at the end of which time 'about 1 c.c. of liquid was left in the fractionating tube .
This then began to solidify .
The surrounding liquid air was removed , and the gas taken through the pump , where it was collected in three fractions , the last one of 15 c.c. ( fraction 5 below ) showing the xenon spectrum but no krypton lines .
The argon ( fraction 2 below ) was refractionated in the same way once more , and a further supply of heavy gas obtained .
The argon this time was allowed to evaporate back into a different gas-holder ( fraction 6 ) containing fresh water , so that the water which had stood in contact with the gas in the other gas-holder could be boiled .
The gas obtained from this boiled water was fractionated separately and yielded 3 c.c. of xenon and 9 c.c. of krypton .
The general plan of fractionation followed is illustrated by the following scheme:\#151 ; * 1908 .
] Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
p6 ( argon ) f7 n " i 1 1 1 ; u 8 1 " 91 \#151 ; ik r16- L 4---- L5 # rJ i-1 | fbt L-15- 11\#151 ; I j\#151 ; 21r24 ( argon ) |-2S ( argon ) [ \#151 ; 26 | ( \#151 ; 30 L2Q- , \#151 ; | 22\#151 ; 20-1 1\#151 ; 23\#151 ; j T- L27-\lt ; 1-32 * Krypton and xenon obtained from vacuum flasks .
11 , 14 , 17 , and 20 , which constituted the middle fractions and were mixtures of krypton and xenon , were refractionated together .
30 consisted of krypton containing some argon , 31 was krypton , and 32 xenon .
30 and 31 weer still further fractionated in the following manner :\#151 ; -33------- , [ -39 ( argon ) .
7-1 r 30 | !
\#151 ; 34\#151 ; j p37-35\#151 ; T l\#151 ; 38\#151 ; [ 1-36- |-40 ( krypton ) .
The total amount of krypton thus obtained was 293 c.c. Fractions 5 , 12 , 15 , 18 , and 32 were all fairly pure xenon and were mixed together .
The total volume was 70 c.e. Since xenon boils at 164 ' abs .
, in order to fractionate it a temperature was required at which xenon had a moderate vapour-pressure .
This could be obtained by ethylene boiling under reduced pressure , but as the amount of ethylene required to fractionate 70 c.c. of xenon would be considerable , an easier method of fractionation was looked for .
When liquid air is added to petroleum ether , the temperature of the latter gradually falls until a point is reached at which , on adding more air , the petroleum ether at the surface freezes to a white solid .
If this is stirred down into the liquid below , a temperature of 143 ' abs .
may ultimately be reached .
By adding more liquid air every few minutes the temperature may be kept constant within two or three degrees .
At 143 ' abs .
the liquid is thick and " mushy , " and difficult to stir , but at 153 ' abs .
it is not nearly so thick and may easily be stirred .
The xenon was run from the mercury gas-holder into a small fractionating bulb connected with a Topler pump .
All the connections were of glass Prof. P. B. Moore .
An Investigation of the [ June 23 , sealed on .
The bulb was immersed in petroleum ether and a temperature of 148 ' to 151 ' abs .
was maintained during the fractionation .
At a higher temperature than 151 ' abs .
the xenon comes off too rapidly .
The method employed for fractionation was as follows :\#151 ; r41 r46 42 47 Xenon .
1-45 i-50 The five fractions ( 41 to 45 ) first obtained were stored in test-tubes over mercury .
41 was run into the fractionating bulb and about two-thirds of the gas pumped off , constituting 46 .
42 was then run into the bulb , where one-third of 41 still remained .
Two-thirds of the whole volume was pumped off to form fraction 47 .
43 , 44 , and 45 were added in the same manner .
An examination of the spectrum of 46 showed that it contained traces of nitrogen and krypton .
It was therefore fractionated separately at the temperature of liquid air to remove these impurities .
The fractionation of the xenon was carried still further at a slightly lower temperature , viz. , between 143 ' and 145 ' abs.:\#151 ; i-51 L-53 -54 r59 57 1-62 r63 64 61 r67 68 L58 No. 58 , which had a volume of about 18 c.c. , was fractionated at the same temperature as before .
Three or four cubic centimetres were obtained by the first 10 minutes ' pumping , and constituted fraction 63 ; the rate then decreased considerably , two or three bubbles coming off with each stroke of the pump when there was an interval of half a minute between the strokes .
This gas was collected in two fractions\#151 ; 64 and 65 .
When the gas was Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
1908 .
] obtained at the rate of only one bubble for each stroke , the ether bath was removed and the last fraction pumped off ( No. 66 ) .
The final fractionation , giving fractions 67 and 72 , was carried out under the same conditions .
No. 72 , whose volume was about half of 1 c.c. , was sparked with oxygen over caustic potash solution , and the excess of oxygen removed with phosphorus .
The photograph of the spark spectrum of this gas was compared on the same plate with that obtained from fraction 59 , which was entirely free from krypton .
There was no difference whatever in the spectra .
No lines occurred in one spectrum which were absent in the other , and the relative intensities of the lines were about the same in the spectra .
In other words , no difference was discernible .
The density of fraction 66 was taken in a 7-c.c .
bulb , and found to be 63 .
A density determination was attempted with fraction 72 , but the volume was too small to allow of an accurate determination being made .
These negative results were disappointing , but because no new element could be found in 19 tons of air , it did not prove that a positive result could not be obtained with 100 tons .
In addition , the large quantities of water with which the gas was in contact at different times\#151 ; although most of this water was boiled\#151 ; might after all have been a source of considerable loss .
Especially would this be the case if the solubility of the possible new gas were anything like that of the radium emanation , whose solubility coefficient at 18 ' is 0'270.* The residues from 100 tons of air were kindly furnished by M. Claude , but in order to eliminate any loss from water , an entirely new plan of procedure was decided upon .
Six 5-litre vacuum flasks were filled with the liquid oxygen .
Five of these were fitted with rubber corks through which ran glass delivery tubes with a double bend , the other end of each of these tubes dipping below the surface of the liquid oxygen in the sixth vessel , which was kept full during the progress of the experiment .
The arrangement is shown in fig. 3 .
As the oxygen in the vessels A to E evaporates , the krypton and xenon were condensed to a solid either in the tubes that dropped below the oxygen in F , or in the liquid oxygen itself .
The gas left behind in the first five vessels , after evaporation was complete , was of course rich in krypton and xenon .
This gas was displaced by a strong solution of caustic soda , and run into wine bottles , which were securely corked , about 10 c.c. of the soda solution being left in each bottle .
When the bottle was inverted , this liquid formed an excellent seal .
Unfortunately , one of the vacuum flasks was broken , and 5 litres of gas were lost .
The glass delivery tubes , which contained a heavy * ' Phys. Zeit .
, ' vol. 9 , pp. 6\#151 ; 8 , 1907 .
Prof. R. B. Moore .
An Investigation of the [ June 23 , white deposit , extending several inches above the surface of the liquid oxygen in F , were cut between F and the other vessels , and the open ends quickly closed by means of rubber tubing and Hofmann screw clamps .
They were allowed to remain dipping in the liquid oxygen .
This part of the work was kindly carried on at Paris by Mr. W. L. Alton .
The bottles of gas , the caustic soda solution , and the vessel full of liquid oxygen and containing the five delivery tubes were sent from Paris to University College .
The five delivery tubes containing solid krypton , xenon , carbon dioxide , etc. , were quickly dropped into a flask which was filled with carbon dioxide .
This flask was connected with a gas-holder containing caustic soda solution , so that as the solids on the tubes evaporated the soda solution was displaced in the gas-holder .
All of the gas in the flask was finally transferred by running into it sodium hydroxide solution .
Meanwhile , the vessel F had been fitted with a rubber stopper and a wide delivery tube leading to the bottom of a vacuum tube containing about 300 c.c. of liquid air .
This air was constantly replenished as it evaporated .
The object was , as before , to concentrate the rare gases in a smaller volume of liquid air or oxygen .
The Dewar tube used was an exceptionally good one , and by filling up late at night and early in the morning the liquid air was never allowed to get too low .
At the end of a week , when the oxygen in the vessel F had evaporated , the vacuum tube was connected with a coiled glass condenser dipping in liquid oxygen as indicated in fig. 4 .
In order to prevent the liquefaction of the oxygen from the vessel G in the tube H , the exit tube was connected with the pump and the pressure inside the apparatus kept a little below normal .
Under these conditions , only krypton and xenon with traces of carbon dioxide and pentane were condensed in the tube H , oxygen with traces of nitrogen escaping through the pump , As krypton has a vapour-pressure at the temperature of liquid oxygen of 17'4 mm. , it seemed certain that the procedure adopted would result in the loss of most of the krypton , but as the vapour-pressure of xenon is only 0T7 mm. at the same temperature , it seemed equally certain that a large part of the xenon would be obtained .
On the other hand , if the boiling points of the argon series be plotted against their atomic weights , it can be readily shown from the curve obtained that the boiling point of a member of the series with an atomic weight of about 175 would be approximately 183 ' abs .
, 20 ' higher than the boiling point of xenon .
How Kamsay has shown* that whereas xenon has a vapour-pressure of 0T7 at 90o,6 abs .
, at 68 ' abs .
a difference of 220,6 , its vapour-pressure is only 00005 mm. Therefore , a new element , the boiling point of which differed from that of xenon * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 421 , 1903 .
1908 .
] Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
to about the same extent , would have at the same temperature of liquid oxygen , a vapour-pressure so small that practically all of the gas would be obtained by the method of fractionation used .
As the object was not to prepare krypton , but to look for new elements in the atmosphere , the work was continued along the same lines .
The solidified gases in the condenser H were allowed to evaporate into the reservoir in which was stored the gas obtained from the five delivery tubes , the last traces of gas being swept out with carbon dioxide .
The combined gases in the reservoir were then worked up in the usual manner by passing them over soda-lime , metallic copper , magnesium-lime mixture , and copper oxide .
The resulting gas was stored over mercury .
On running it into a bulb immersed in liquid air , it solidified at once , but was not fractionated separately , being transferred back to the mercury reservoir through the pump .
Its volume was about 50 c.c. The gas remaining in the large flask F ( fig. 3 ) , and in the small tube G-(fig .
4 ) , together with that in the wine bottles which contained the gas Fig. 3 .
transferred from four of the other flasks shown in fig. 3 , was purified in the usual manner with magnesium-lime mixture , etc. The inactive gas was mixed with the 50 c.c. already obtained and stored over mercury .
The total volume of water and caustic soda solution which had been in contact with the gas at any period was not more than 20 litres .
All of this was carefully kept and thoroughly boiled , the evolved gases being worked up in VOL. lxxxi.\#151 ; A. p Prof. R B. Moore .
An Investigation of [ June 23 , Fig. 4 .
the usual manner , and the rare gas obtained added to the main supply .
The latter was fractionated in the following manner:\#151 ; l~8 ( argon ) 1-4 L UH L5---1 Lnn -6\#151 ; 10 ( argon 4* krypton ) 14 ( krypton + argon ) 15 ( krypton ) 16 ( krypton + xenon ) L-7 r12 ( xenon + krypton ) L13 ( xenon ) The main body of the gas constituted fractions 13 and 15 , fractions 10 , 14 , 16 , and 12 occupying only a few cubic centimetres each .
The volume of the krypton was 50 c.c. , and that of the xenon 220 c.c. The second method of extracting the heavy rare gases is therefore nearly as economical , as far as xenon is concerned , as the first , but from five times the amount of air only one-sixth the volume of krypton was obtained .
The second method , however , involves very much less labour , and was the better of the two considering the object of the work .
Ramsay has shown* that the proportion of krypton in the air , by volume , is 1 part in 20 millions , and that of xenon 1 part in * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 71 , p. 422 , 1903 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 80 , p. 599 , 1908 .
Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
1908 .
] 170 millions .
According to these figures , 100 tons of air ought to yield 4 litres of krypton and 470 c.c. of xenon .
The difference between these volumes and those obtained is very marked in the case of krypton .
This is not surprising , considering what the vapour-pressure of krypton is at the temperature of liquid air .
By the first method of separation 70 c.c. of xenon was obtained from 19 tons of air , by the second method 220 c.c. from 100 tons , but in the latter case the gas in one of the vacuum flasks was lost .
Consequently , the difference in the volume of xenon per ton of air obtained by the two methods is not large .
There is , however , loss in both cases , and as the amount of this loss is unknown , the data are insufficient to base a calculation on .
The xenon , after being sparked with oxygen , was fractionated in the same manner as before , the temperature of the petroleum ether being maintained between 149 ' and 151 ' abs .
The final ^ c.c. of gas which could be pumped off whilst the fractionating bulb was still at the above temperature was collected separately .
On removing the vacuum tube and allowing the temperature of the bulb to rise , another small fraction of ^ c.c. was obtained .
At the time it was thought that this behaviour was indicative of the presence of a new gas , but in reality it was probably due to the fact that the amount of gas was so small that the evaporation was insufficient to give as much as one bubble for each stroke of the pump .
The bulb , therefore , appeared to have been pumped " dry , " although a small trace of gas remained .
Both the ordinary and spark spectra of these two last fractions were photographed and compared on the same plate with the spectra given by the first fraction at the opposite end of the series .
The lines obtained from the three samples of gas were identical .
They were compared by using the negative as a lantern slide and throwing the images of the spectra on a screen .
In this way the lines could very readily be compared .
The results obtained indicate that if a stable element heavier than xenon does exist in the atmosphere , the volume present compared to that of xenon is extremely small .
As at least 10 per cent , of a new gas could probably have been detected in the spectra examined , therefore , 0-03 c.c. of such a gas could have been detected .
As this existed in 100 tons of air , it represents 1 part in 2,560,000,000 by volume .
All of the magnesium and lime used to extract nitrogen had been kept in stoppered bottles .
Bamsay and Travers tested the magnesium and lime used by them in the preparation of argon , but no tests had been made with such a mixture over which a gas containing a considerable proportion of krypton and xenon had been passed .
It was thought possible that although argon and the lower members of the series did not react , those of higher p 2 Prof. R. B. Moore .
An Investigation of the [ June 23 , atomic weight might do so .
The magnesium and lime over which the gas containing most krypton and xenon had been passed was therefore treated in the following manner :\#151 ; It was placed in the round-bottomed Jena flask A ( fig. 5 ) which was connected with a large U-tube containing pure dilute hydrochloric acid .
E is a phosphorus pentoxide tube , one end of which was connected with a Topler Fig. 5 .
pump .
The whole apparatus , after being made perfectly air-tight , was exhausted .
Connection could be made between the two sides of the U -tube by opening the tap D. When exhausted , the tap D was closed , and water allowed to run in slowly through B. The evolved gas was passed through the acid in C by which the ammonia was retained and the unabsorbed gas was collected at the pump , sparked with oxygen over sodium hydroxide solution and the excess of oxygen removed by means of phosphorus .
The two or three bubbles of gas left consisted of nitrogen derived from traces of air in the apparatus ( fig. 5 ) , and which had not been removed owing to insufficient sparking .
There was no rare gas present .
Another sample of the same gas was analysed , with the following result:\#151 ; Per cent. Carbon dioxide ... ... ... ... .
12T1 Carbon monoxide ... ... ... ... 2-20 Silicon hydride ... ... ... . .
86-34 100-65 1908 .
] Heavy Constituents of the Atmosphere .
209 The solution in C was evaporated to dryness in a platinum basin , and the equivalent of the ammonium radical in the residue found by estimating the chlorine present .
My thanks are due to Dr. Gwyer for making this analysis , and for assistance in the work on the magnesium and lime residues .
The figures obtained in the analysis were:\#151 ; Percentage of chlorine .
, -------------A____________ Weight taken .
Chlorine found .
Found .
In ammonium chloride .
R2629 grm. 0T735 grm. 65'99 66'23 The results show plainly that there was nothing but ammonium chloride present .
As Sir William Ramsay has pointed out in his Introductory Note , the negative results obtained in this work do not necessarily indicate that a final end has been reached , they simply indicate the improbability of the existence of a stable elementary gas in the atmosphere with a higher atomic weight than xenon .
My cordial thanks are due to Sir William Ramsay for his suggestions and unfailing interest in the work , in a considerable portion of which he took an active experimental part .

