146 The Action of Ozone on Water-colour Pigments .
By Sir William de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. ( Received November 21 , \#151 ; Read December 12 , 1907 .
) In 1888 a report* upon " The Action of Light on Water Colours " was-made to the Science and Art Department by Dr. Russell and myself , in which we showed that mineral colours are far more stable than vegetable colours , that the presence of moisture and oxygen are in most cases essential for a change to be effected even in the case of vegetable colours , that every colour is permanent in vacuo , and that the spectrum colours which principally cause fading lie at the blue end .
From time to time since then I have occupied myself and experimented with pigments .
Amongst others , one set of experiments was made which , is fairly complete , and which I wish to lay before the Royal Society , as it may prove to be a starting point for other investigations .
They show that water-colour pigments ( which , by the bye , are usually the same pigments as oil pigments , the only difference between the two being the vehicle in which they are situated ) might fade without any assistance of light when freely exposed to the air , and it is not improbable that the action of light in some measure in the presence of the pigment produces the effective cause in the surrounding atmosphere .
It was suspected from the first , and indeed the report alluded to above-implies it , that the fading of colours is due to oxidation .
If such be the cause , then the introduction of an active oxidising agent such as ozone ( or peroxide of hydrogen ) into the atmosphere should show the same effect as the prolonged exposure to light .
To ascertain if such were the case , strips of varying depths , of different single colours or of mixtures of colours , were prepared , so that the effect might be studied on well-separated particles , and also when they were closer together .
In fact , strips were prepared as described in the report .
A piece of apparatus was put together , as shown diagrammatically in the following figure ( p. 147 ) .
A is a four-cell Grove battery working a coil B , which is connected with C an ozone tube , to which are attached , as shown , a series of wide tubes T ' and T " , in which strips of pigmented paper can be readily introduced .
0 is an oxygen bottle supplying the ozone tube with a slow stream of oxygen .
The various strips were well moistened at the back , so that the pigmented surface was damp .
* Subsequently printed and presented to both Houses of Parliament .
The Action of Ozone on Water-colour Pigments .
When everything was arranged , the flow of oxygen was commenced and the coil put in action .
The following extract from my note-book of the first day 's work will show the kind of strip and length of time required for experiments with the different colours :\#151 ; June 22 .
11.15 Put into the tubes crimson lake , Payne 's grey , Antwerp blue , and indigo .
Bleaching at once began in crimson lake , Payne 's grey , and indigo .
11.45 Took out crimson lake , quite bleached .
12.0 " indigo 12.15 " Payne 's grey Antwerp blue unchanged .
1.35 Put in tubes ultramarine blue , chrome yellow , and a fresh strip of indigo .
1.38 Faint wash of indigo , quite bleached .
2.0 Next 2.15 Took out indigo ; darkest wash gone pale green .
2.30 Put in tube Prussian blue .
3.0 Put in indigo + gamboge* ( i.e. , a green made of these two colours ) , and of Prussian blue + raw sienna ( i.e. , a green made of these two colours ) .
Took out chrome yellow and ultramarine blue , and found no appreciable change .
* Indigo + gamboge means a green made by mixing indigo and gamboge together ; the + sign always means a mixture .
VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; A. .
L [ Nov. 21 Sir W. de W. Abney .
3.20 Indigo + gamboge , indigo bleaching ; light washes bleached .
Gamboge , light shades quite bleached , and darker shades much lighter .
3.45 Indigo + gamboge , action seemingly over .
4.5 Indigo + Venetian red ( a grey ) , and indigo .+Indian red ( a grey ) put in tube .
Rapid disappearance of the blue began immediately , and at 4.20 No trace of the indigo appears but in the darkest wash .
4.30 Action stopped .
No further change in the indigo 4- Venetian red or in the indigo + Indian red .
No change noticed in Prussian blue , Antwerp blue , or in Prussian blued-raw sienna .
Colours exposed to light by Russell and Abney in moist air .
Time taken to bleach in damp ozonised air .
Composition of colour , according to Winsor and Newton .
Unchanged .
h. m. Indian red u A variety of iron oxide .
Venetian red u Artificially prepared sesquioxide of iron .
Burnt sienna u Burnt raw sienna .
Yellow ochre u Native earth .
Raw sienna u 55 55 Emerald green 0 45 Acetoarsenite of copper .
Terre verte u Native earth .
Chromium oxide ... u Chromium sesquioxide .
Cobalt blue u Alumina tinctured with cobalt oxide .
Ultramarine ash u Second quality of blue from lapis lazuli .
Chrome yellow u Normal chromate of lead .
Altered .
V ermilion u Mercuric sulphide .
Rose madder 4 0 Lake from the madder root .
Brown madder 2 10 55 55 55 Gamboge 0 50 A gum resin .
Aureolin u Double nitrite of cobalt and potassium .
Cadmium yellow ... 4 0 Sulphide of cadmium .
Naples yellow 0 45 Cadmium yellow and zinc white .
Indian yellow 4 0 Prepared " purree " from India .
Olive green 1 5 Indian yellow , umber , and indigo .
Indigo 0 40 Vegetable blue from indigo plant .
French blue 3 30 Artificial ultramarine .
Permanent blue 3 30 A pure variety of French blue .
Payne 's grey 1 0 Indigo , crimson lake , and carbon black .
Violet carmine 4 0 A lake obtained from the root of Anchusa tinctona .
Purple madder 0 20 Lake from the madder root .
Sepia 0 50 From the cuttlefish bags .
Brown pink 0 30 Lake from quercitron bark .
Vandyke brown 1 15 Native earth .
Destroyed .
Carmine 0 10 Lake prepared from cochineal .
Crimson lake 0 30 55 55 55 A weak variety of Prussian blue containing alumina .
Antwerp blue u Prussian blue u Ferrocyanide of iron .
1907 .
] The Action of Ozone on Water-colour Pigments .
The table on p. 148 shows the results obtained .
The first column is a list of colours exposed to light in moist air the order of stability .
It is copied # from the report above mentioned .
The second column shows the time taken to bleach or change the colours in a moist atmosphere of ozone , { u signifies that no change took place in the colours after prolonged exposure .
) The third column shows the composition of the different colours ( water ) according to Winsor and Newton 's catalogue .
The following table shows the time of fading when certain mixtures were tested:\#151 ; - Mixtures submitted to damp ozone .
Time of fading .
Remarks .
Carmine + Prussian blue Mins .
15 Blue left .
" + Leitner 's blue 15 \gt ; 5 Both bleached .
Indigo + gamboge 45 " + Venetian red 25 Red left .
" + Indian red 25 " + burnt sienna 10 Sienna left .
,5 + Indian yellow 10 Blue gone .
" + Vandyke brown 10 , , + yellow ochre Crimson lake + cobalt 10 \#187 ; 30 Cobalt left .
3 , + Antwerp blue ... 20 Blue left .
3 , + Prussian blue ... 3 5 ) It will be seen that the ozone had no effect on any of the colours which light failed to affect with the single exception of emerald green .
From its composition it is not strange that some effect should take place in it .
Again , it will be noticed that all the colours unchanged by the ozone are mineral colours .
In the list of colours destroyed by light are Prussian and Antwerp blue , both of which are of the same composition .
Ozone had no effect on either of them .
In the report referred to it was mentioned that if bleached Prussian blue were placed in the dark its colour revived .
Presumably there is some action caused by light which is absent when the exposure is to ozone Two other colours unchanged by ozone are aureolin and vermilion , ' ; both of which are high up in the " altered " list .
In light , vermilion blackened and aureolin lost but little .
In regard to the remaining colours the order of bleaching would be slightly altered .
Beginning with those which took longer to bleach , we should have\#151 ; Rose madder .
Cadmium yellow .
Indian yellow .
Violet carmine .
French blue .
Permanent blue .
Vandyke brown .
Olive green .
Payne 's Grey .
Gamboge .
Sepia .
Naples yellow .
Carmine .
Indigo .
Brown pink .
Crimson lake .
Purple madder .
L 2 150 The Action of Ozone on Water-colour Pigments .
Those in the list as far as permanent blue took hours to be bleached and should be regarded as permanent so far as moist ozone is concerned .
The remainder must be looked upon as fugitive , the five last being very fugitive .
Another set of experiments was carried out in which dry ozone was introduced into the tubes , the oxygen bubbling through strong sulphuric acid and passing over phosphoric anhydride before it reached the ozone tube .
The pigments were dried in an oven and then placed in the tubes .
No change took place in any of the colours , though submitted to the dry ozone for a long period .
As in the experiments with light , it is evident that moisture must be present in order that bleaching may take place .
It is unnecessary to make any deductions from the experiments , except to point out that the life of the colours will be longer in an atmosphere free from an active oxidising agent .
I have to thank Mr. C. E. Woods for the care he took in carrying out , under my direction , the various experiments .

