7 .
" On the Developement of the Disturbing Function upon which depend the Inequalities of the Motions of the Planets , caused by their Mutual Attraction .
" By James Ivory , Esq. , K.H. , M.A. , F.R.S. The progress of physical astronomy has been retarded by the ex ?
cessive labour requisite for the arithmetical computation of the in ?
equalities in the motions of the planets , arising from the perturbations produced by their mutual attractions .
If an inequality depended solely on the quantity of the coefficient of its argument in the ex ?
panded algebraic function , the difficulty of computation would not be great , since , from the smallness of the elements on which it depends , namely , the eccentricities and the inclinations of the orbits to the ecliptic , the resulting series decreases , in every case , with great rapidity : but as its magnitude depends also upon the length of its pe ?
riod , the coefficient of its argument will , when this period embraces many years , acquire , in the process of integration , a high multiplier , and comes thus to have a sensible effect on the place of the planet .
Q Such is the origin of some of the .
most remarkable of the planetary inequalities , and , in particular , of the great equations in the mean motions of Jupiter and Saturn .
It is necessary , therefore , that the astronomer be furnished with the means of computing any term in the expansion of the disturbing function below the sixth order j since it has been found that there are inequalities depending upon terms of the fifth order , which have a sensible effect on the motions of some of the planets .
The object of the author in the present paper is to give the function such a form that the astronomer may have it in his power to select any inequality he may wish to examine , and to compute the coeflicient of its argument by an arithmetical process of moderate length .
The investigation comprehends every argument not passing the fifth order ; but as the formuke are regular , the method may be extended indefinitely to any order .

