348 Election of Fellows .
[ June 19 , loidal and colloidal conditions of animal matter , and the discovery of methods for the general and local extinction of pain .
The next grand advance has for its design the discovery of the precise relationships of nervous to muscular structure in the living and in the dead conditions .
That established , the phenomena of muscular movement , its suspension or its destruction , will be understood like every other physical fact that lies this side of ultimate fact\#151 ; that is to say , that lies , as this clearly does , within the range of experimental inquiry .
June 12 , 1873 .
The Annua Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day .
Sir GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY , K.C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Lieut.-Col. Strange and Dr. Webster were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the following Candidates were declared to be duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; William Aitken , M.D. Sir Alexander Armstrong , M.D. , K.C.B. Robert Stawell Ball , LL. D. John Beddoe , M.D. Frederick Joseph Bramwell , C.E. Captain Edward Killwick Calver , R.N. Robert Lewis John Ellery , F.R.A.S. Lieut.-Col. James Augustus Grant , C.B. , C.S.I. Clements Robert Markham , C.B. George Edward Paget , M.D. George W est Royston-Pigott , M.D. Osbert Salvin , M.A. The Hon. John William Strutt , M.A. Henry Woodwrard , F.G.S. James Young , F.C.S. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 19 , 1873 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
Sir Alexander Armstrong , Dr. Robert Stawell Ball , Mr. Frederick Joseph Bramwell , Captain Edward Killwick Calver , Lieut.-Col. J. Augustus Grant , Mr. Clements Robert Markham , Dr. George West Royston-Pigott , Mr. Henry Woodward , and Mr. James Young rvere admitted into the Society .
The following communications were read :\#151 ;

