On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence .
485 Method 3 .
Observation of the electricity taken out of air by the electric filter .
S 5 .
Method 1 , was nsed in the experiments described in their communication to the Royal Society of February , 1895 , from which it was concluded that air and several other gases tried became electrified by blowing them in bubbles through water , and through solutions of various salts , acids , and alkalis , in water .
This conclusion was verified for the case of common air and pure water by collecting , into a large reservoir over water , air which had been bubbled through pure water in a U-tube .
The electrification of the air thus collected was tested by a water-dropper , taking the same potential as the air at the centre of the reservoir .
It was thus proved that the electrification of the air was negative , as was to be expected from the positive electrification which the authors had found on insulated vessels containing water through which air had been bubbled .
S 6 .
Method 2 , was used in the first experiments described in the present paper ( SS 16\#151 ; 24 ) which were undertaken for the purpose of determining approximately in absolute measure the total quantity of electricity in a given mass of electrified air ; and particularly for finding the greatest electrification which could be communicated to a large quantity of air by needle points supplied with electricity from an electric machine .
The result thus found in S 23 , 3"7 x 10 4 C.G\S .
electrostatic , is the greatest electric density ( quantity of electricity per cubic centimetre ) which the authors have hitherto been able to measure in air electrified by electrified needle points .
Rut by an electrified hydrogen flame a density of 22 x 10~4 C.G.S. electrostatic unit was obtained in air ( S 65 ) .
S 7 .
In all the other experiments described in the present paper , Method 3 was used ; but probably the authors must return to Method 2 if , in future , they undertake further experiments to find the greatest electric density which they can measure in air or other gases .
\lt ; \lt ; On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence .
" By John Burke , B.A. ( Dub .
) , Berkeley Fellow of the Owens College , Manchester .
Communicated by Professor Arthur Schuster , F.R.S. Received June 10 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) If a body , A , of some fluorescent substance , such as uranium glass , be transmitting light from a similar body , B , which is fluorescing , the amount of light transmitted by A from B seems quite different , according as A is fluorescing or not .
Thei'e appears to 486 On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence .
exist in a dilute solution of fluorescine or eosine a small difference , but a strong solution of either does not permit its fluorescent light to penetrate , except a very small thickness of the liquid , whether fluorescing or not .
Sulphate of quinine is too transparent to the luminous rays , so that even if a change did exist it could hardly be detected .
The case is otherwise with uranium glass , in which the effect is well marked .
The compounds of uranium are remarkable for many characteristic properties connected with fluorescence , which they seem to exhibit more readily than most other bodies .
The spectrum of the fluorescent light emitted by uranium glass shows certain maxima and minima , as was noticed by Stokes in 1852 .
The experiments which have been carried out with a view to testing whether a change in the absorption is produced by fluorescence , have been almost exclusively upon uranium glass .
Regarding it as the most suitable substance to experiment upon , a careful series of experiments have been made to determine whether the phenomenon really existed or not .
If we call a. and ft the fractions of the light from B transmitted by A , according as the latter is fluorescing or not , for uranium glass 1 cm .
thick , the values of a in a particular set of experiments , in which eye determinations were taken , were as follows .
Each experiment consisted of twenty observations .
Exp. I II III IV And for ft\#151 ; Exp. I IT ft- 0-70 = 0-84 HI = 0*72 IV r t T. .
= 0*92 The mean value of a. obtained from these being cx .
\#151 ; 0 47 , ft 079 .
The ratio \#151 ; was also independently determined , and found as 1 + a the mean of eighty observations to be 0'o07 .
The values of a and ft have also been determined photographically , giving a \lt ; 0-48 ft \gt ; 0-75 \gt ; 0*43 \lt ; 0-89 .
If we take the maximum value of a given photographically 0 48 , the * = 054 = 0-46 = 0-51 = 0-36 Theory of the Magneto-Optic Phenomena of Iron , 487 ratio -I\#151 ; = 032 , and instead of obtaining equality when the photometer is adjusted for this value the difference is most marked .
The effect has also been shown by obtaining two photographs on the one plate ; one photograph being the result of an exposure to the light from two fluorescing cubes one behind the other , and the second photograph the result of superposing the effect of the Light from A alone , when fluorescing , upon that from B after having passed through A , when the latter was not fluorescing .
The exposure in each of the three cases being the same , a very distinct difference is shown in the result ; the superposed photographs being always the darker in the negative , notwithstanding the fact that the resultant-effect of superposing two photographs due to light of the same intensity , or nearly so , has been found not to be equal to but less than that due to light of double the intensity acting for half the time .
If the resultant effect were equal to the sum of the separate ones , the effect caused by the change of absorption would have been still more marked .
In the determinations of a. and ft a null method has been employed by which any appreciable want of uniformity in the illumination can be detected .
The source of illumination has been almost invariably the spark discharge of a Leyden jar between cadmium electrodes , being one of the richest sources of the fluorescence-exciting rays , and the photometer one specially constructed for the purpose .
a On the Theory of the Magneto-Optic Phenomena of Iron , Nickel , and Cobalt .
" By J. G. Leathem , B.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Sir Robert S. Ball , F.R.S. Received May 11 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) In Mr. Larmor 's Brit. Assoc. Report ( 1893 ) on the Action of Magnetism on Light , it is pointed out ( S 20 ) that there are two ways in which the magnetic field may affect the phenomena of light propagation , and two corresponding types of magneto-optic theory .
It is the object of the present paper to take the fundamental equations of the second type of theory in a general form on the lines of Mr. Larmor 's recent papers on Electrodynamics , and to develop them so as to obtain the solutions of the problems of magnetic reflection and of transmission through magnetised films ; the formulae so obtained are compared with the available experimental results , and the agreement of the theory with experiment thus put to the test .

