[ 155 ] III .
On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures.--Part XV .
By William Crawford Williamson , LL. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 21 , 1888 .
[ Plates 1-4 .
] Some years ago M. Renault described* some specimens of petioles of Ferns , which he identified with Corda 's genus Zygopteris , identical , in part , with Cotta 's genus Tubicaulis .
In my memoir , Part VI .
, t I described , from the lower Carboniferous rocks of Lancashire , two of M. Renault 's species , viz. , Lacattii and Z. hibractensis ; but , from an unwillingness to multiply genera based only upon the ill understood fragments of imperfectly known plants , I proposed ( p. 677 ) the provisional adoption of the neutral generic term for a considerable number of these objects , which appeared to be either rhizomes or petioles of Ferns .
Subsequent researches have , I think , shown the wisdom of doing so ; at all events , further discoveries , which I now propose to put on record , unmistakably confirm my opinion .
In the same memoir ( loc. cit. , p. 173 ) M. Renault described a rhizome , with petioles , the latter of which closely resembled those of Corda 's genus Anachoropteris , and to which the French palaeontologist gave the name of Anachoropteris But the structure of the rachis of this plant , especially of the transverse section of its vascular bundle , was wholly different from that of any plant previously observed .
Having obtained a stem identical with this Anachoropteris , but without any petioles connected with it , I figured my specimen in my memoir , Part VI .
, Plate 58 , fig. 51 , where I described it as closely resembling M. Renault 's Anachoropteris Decaisnii .
It must be remembered that Corda 's two genera , Anachoropteris and Zygopteris , were solely based by him upon distinctions between the transverse sections of two petioles .
That author knew nothing of the nature of the rhizome of either of these petioles .
M. Renault , however , obtained a rhizome associated with a petiole closely identical with that of Corda 's Zygopteris , which he described ' " ' under the name of Zygopteris Brongniartii .
He thus possessed Corda 's two forms of petiole asso* ' Annals des Sciences Naturelles , ' 5i\#174 ; me Serie , Bot. , vol. 12 , 1869 , p. 161 .
| ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 164 , 1874 .
x 2 2.4.89 ciated with two distinct , though not wholly dissimilar , rhizomes .
The French savant described the two genera Zygopterisand Anaas distinguished primarily by the differences between these petioles , but secondarily by the differences between their rhizomes .
In my memoir , Part VIII .
( 'Phil .
Trans./ vol. 167 , pp. 217 et .
) , when describing a new rhizome and its petioles , under the name of Rachiopteris corrugata , I gave at some length my reasons for not multiplying generic names for these curious plants ; pointing out how wholly impossible it was to classify recent Ferns on any such basis , a fact the importance of which is further illustrated by the rhizome which I am about to describe .
Some weeks ago , my young auxiliary collector , Mr. Lomax , to .whom I was indebted for the Calamitean fruits described in my last memoir , Part XIV .
, brought me a specimen having the central vascular axis of M. Renault 's Anachoropteris with petioles of the true Zygopteroid type : thus demonstrating that the axis found by Renault in connection with a petiole of Corda 's type of Anachoropteris was equally the axis of a Zygopteroid petiole .
The specimen has been a drifted fragment , now imbedded in a hard ganister full of Goniatites .
Fig. 1 ( Plate 1 ) shows the five-rayed transverse section of the vascular axis of the stem or rhizome ; at a is a vacant spot , occupied in some sections by a delicate parenchyma\#151 ; obviously a medullary one\#151 ; five thin prolongations of which , a ' , ci , are projected into five rays of the vascular axis h. This axis is composed of a mass of scalariform tracheids .
Each centrifugal ray first contracts in diameter , and then expands again , terminating in a truncated , more or less bifurcated extremity .
The maximum diameter of this axis from the tip of one ray to that of another is rather more than a quarter of an inch.- At b ' the end of one of these rays is detached , apparently to form the vascular centre of a lateral appendage .
At c is a thin band of structure superficially resembling a bundle-sheath ; a similar investment encompasses not only the central axis , but each of the separate organs . !
Apparent rootlets are seen at d. Fig. 2 is a second transverse section through the vascular axis , h , of a specimen like fig. 1 , from which it differs only in one or two respects .
Thus , the detached bifurcate end resembling that of the ray of fig. 1 is replaced at fig. 2 , by a cylindrical vascular bundle , '05 of an inch in diameter , whilst the corresponding one at b has disappeared ; between the bundle b ' and its investing zone , c , are remains of cellular parenchyma .
The black masses e , e are the carbonised remains of the cortical parenchyma .
Fig. 3 is part of another section like fig. 2 , but in which the circular section of a * Loc .
cit. , Plate IV .
, fig. 4 bis , and Plate V. , fig. 5 .
t In a recent memoir , to be referred to on a later page , Professor Stenzel , of Breslau , describes specimens which show that these bands do represent zones of specialised , more or less sclerous , cortical tissue .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
lateral appendage like Vof fig. 2 reappears at , but is now enclosed within an entire and separate circle of the tissue fig. 2 , c , at o ' .
The supposed rootlets are also seen at d , and the carbonised cortical tissue at e. But outside the circular aberrant organ b ' we now have a transverse section of a large Zygopteroid petiole .
The H"shaPed section of the vascular bundle of this petiole is seen at f , surrounded by a ring of the structure c at c. Fig. 4 represents a more perfect specimen of a similar Zygopteroid petiolar bundle , in which several of the tissues are well preserved .
In the slenderness both of its central portion / and its two transverse ones f " , this vascular bundle approaches nearer to Benault 's Zygopteris than to any of the other forms hitherto described .
In this specimen the cellular tissue of the cortical parenchyma is fairly well preserved , even in the dark masses , and is beautifully so at the two more central portions e , e.The anomalous zone c entirely invests this vascular bundle , like an endodermal zone .
Fig. 5 is a small detached vascular axis found close to a section like figs. 1 and 2 .
In its centre there exists a small vacant spot , a , from which there diverge four radiating lines , apparently repeating , on a small scale , the configuration of in figs. 1 and 2 .
Fig. 5a is obviously a structure identical in its contour with fig. 3 , e , but the middle of its central bundle approximates to fig. 5a .
We have a point a , from which radiate three lines , a , corresponding to of figs. 1 and 2 .
These two examples , fig. 5 , and especially 5a , seem to suggest that , whilst the organs figs. 3 and 4 , / , are destined to become true petioles , those of figs. 2 , b ' , and 3 , e , indicated by b ' , b ' are destined to become ordinary branches of the rhizome , like the centres of figs. 1 and 2 .
The vascular axis of each of these circular structures is obviously destined ultimately to assume the pentagonal form of that of the primary stems .
* * On January 12th of the present year , I received from Professor Stenzel , of Breslau , a copy of an interesting memoir by him , entitled " Die Gattung Cotta .
" In this memoir the author figures and describes some examples of Cotta 's genus , and of , and Zygopteris of Corda .
He sub-divides Asterochlcena into the sub-genera Meriopteris , Asterochlcena , and Glepsy drop sis , and the genus Zygopteris into Zygopteris and Under the name of Zygopteris ( Avkyopteris ) scandens , this author describes and figures a plant which appears to me to be identical with my Rachiopteris Grayii .
In this plant Dr. Stenzel finds the organ which I have represented in fig. 2 , b ' , and fig. 3 , e , in exactly the same position as I have done , viz. , between the exterior of the main stem and the superior or posterior side of the petiolar bundle , fig. 3 , / .
He also regards it , as I have done , as a young state of a stem or branch ; giving to it the apparently appropriate designation of an axelsprosse .
His specimens further show that the dubious investing zones of the several organs which I have indicated in my several figures by c and c are not mere mineral developments , but represent zones of tissue , often of a sclerenchymatous character , as I have already pointed out .
He also thinks , as I have concluded , that the organs d , of my figures 1 and 3 , are true roots or rootlets .
These agreements between two independent observers are , of course , satisfactory .
As to the specific name of the plant , since my memoir was received by the Royal Society on June 13th , 1888 , whilst Professor Stenzel 's memoir has only been published during the present year , my name of Rachiopteris Grayii will have the precedence , unless Professor Stenzel has given the name to his plant in any earlier publication.\#151 ; Februai'y 12th , 1889 .
The exterior of the cortex of this plant was densely clothed with hairs .
Though longitudinal sections through the specimen described present a somewhat obscure arrangement of tissues and organs , these hairs enable us to distinguish external surfaces from internal structures .
The difficulty of doing this is the greater since two distinct stems are pressed closely together in the fragment of ganister in which my specimens are preserved , and also from the fact that the innumerable small cylindrical organs , d , variously intersected , and each with an ill preserved vascular bundle in its interior , abound in all my preparations both within the cortex , and externally to it , as at d , d.Similar structures appear to exist in M. Renault 's specimens of Anachoropteris , but that observer regards them as representing petiolar bundles .
Mine , like his , are ill preserved ; but they more closely resemble adventitious roots than petiolar structures .
A similar one M. Renault himself regards as a " racine adventif .
" These organs are about *066 of an inch in diameter .
That no classification of these fossil Ferns based solely upon the transverse sections of their petiolar bundles is or can be of much value , is clearly shown when tested amongst those living Ferns the classification of which is chiefly based upon their sporangial reproductive organs .
But , I think , I can show that we have here to do with a type of stem-structure which is remarkable , and which appears to throw them into something like a natural group recurring in several allied plants .
In his memoir above referred to , M. Renault describes and figures* a transverse section of the stem of his Zygopteris BrongniartIn this section we find a central structure " tres probablement cellulaire " ou k ses prolongements qui , au nombre de six dans le Zygopteris , s'enfongaient plus ou moins dans l'epaisseur de l'dtui ligneux a , a , form par les cellules scalariformes/ ' { Log. pp. 164-5 .
) Specimens in my cabinet confirm M. Renault 's suggestion that this central structure , with its thin radiating arms , is really a cellular one , being either a medulla or of a procambial character\#151 ; but apparently the former\#151 ; associated in either case with peculiarities in the primitive development of the vascular bundle which surrounds it .
The presence of this peculiar cellular centre within the vascular axis constitutes a feature which seems to unite several otherwise distinct plants into a common group .
It is obviously identical with the structure a , a , seen in my figs. 1 , 2 , and 5 of the present memoir .
In my memoir , Part VIII .
, + I figured , under the name of Rachioptens corrugata , transverse sections of a stem which has a structure almost identical with that of M. Renault 's Zygopteris , and in which the central cellular structure sends off five or six radiating and sometimes dicho-tomosing arms , partially subdividing the surrounding vascular cylinder into half-a-dozen groups of cells .
Unlike M. Renault 's similar example , the petiolar bundles given off by this central axis are not Zygopteroid in form , since they lack the two parallel extensions f"seen in Plate 1 , fig. 4 , of the present memoir ; what * Plate 3 , fig. 1 .
f ' Phil Trans. , ' vol. 1G7 , Plate 5 , fig. 4 , and Plate 6 , fig. 13 .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
remains corresponding apparently to the portion / of the same figure .
In my previous memoirs I have pointed out the fact that all these Zygopteroid bundles give off alternately from the exterior of each of the two parallel portions a considerable mass of vascular tissue , each of-which detached portions usually subdivides into two parallel secondary bundles.* * * S The Rachiopteris duplex , also described and figured ( Part " VI .
, ' Phil. Trans./ vol. 164 , Plate 55 , figs. 28 and 35 ) , exhibits the same phenomena , and must also be regarded as one of the Zygopteroid group ; and it is more than probable that my Rachiopterisfigured in Part VI .
, Plate 16 , figs. 19 , 20 , and 21 , may be regarded as connecting the petiole of Rachiopteris corrugata , already referred to , with the Zygopteroid type .
The Rachiopteris duplex also appears , so far as its petiole is concerned , and especially from the mode in which the vascular bundles of the secondary petioles are detached from those of the primary one , to have corresponding affinities with the same type .
It is obvious , on the one hand , that we cannot retain both Corda 's genera of Zygopteris and Anachoropteris ; and , since the type of petiole which may be designated Zygopteroid is the more remarkable one of the two , and appears to have several other Carboniferous Fern-petioles closely allied to it , it seems desirable that M. Renault and those who wish to multiply these generic names should accept the genus Zygopteris and abandon that of Anachoropteris as too ill-defined to be of any real value .
Personally , I prefer not to multiply these generic names until we obtain a more definite knowledge of structural identities and differences upon which generic groups can be based .
Hence , I shall continue for the present to use my own provisional term of Rachiopteris ; and , since the structure of the petiole of the plant just described is obviously sufficiently different from that of the Anachoropteris of M. Renault to distinguish it specifically , I shall designate the former plant Rachiopteris Grayii , in memory of my lamented friend , Asa Gray . !
Returning to my figures of the petioles of Rachiopteris j it will be observed that the two secondary bundles a , a , given off in alternate pairs from the opposite sides a , a of the primary petiolar bundle a , obviously supply the two secondary petioles y , y , giving off , in their turn , smaller bundles to a third series of branches or pinnules .
Fig. 6 of Plate 2 of the present memoir represents a transverse section of a petiole of Rachiopteris Lacattii , \ for which I am indebted to Mr. Lomax , of * See memoir , Part VI .
, Plate 57 , figs. 45 , a " and fig. 47 , m. f A further ground for abandoning M. Renault 's duplicated generic names is found in the fact that twice in his memoir ( loc.cit .
, pp. 165 and 177 ) he considers that Zygopteris is distinguished from Anachoropteris by having six of the radial prolongations of the medulla , whilst Anachoropteris has only five .
My plant just described , which certainly should belong to M. Renault 's genus , has but five .
+ Memoir , Part VI .
( loc. cit. ) , Plate 65 , figs. 35n and 35e .
S In the memoir referred to on page 157 , Professor Stenzel expresses an opinion that the petiole which in previous memoirs , as in the present one , I have identified with Renault 's Zygopteris Lacattii is really the Z. elliptica of the French author .
This , however , is a mistake easily explained .
In its middle cortex , M. Renault 's Z. Lacattii contains numerous gum-canals , which are not found in his PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON ON THE ORGANISATION Badcliffe , and in which the same bifurcation of the secondary pinnules is seen at y , y , each branch being supplied with a secondary fibro-vascular bundle a , from which a bundle of a third order a " is given off , as in duplex .
This mode of dichotomous branching of secondary pinnules is clearly incompatible with fronds of the ordinary pinnate or bipinnate types .
The plant must have had some more distinctive contour .
The lowest secondary pinnules of several forms of Pier is , e.g. , P. umbrosa and P. serrulata branch in this quasi-dichotomous way .
M. Zeiller has figured in his ' Etudes des Gites Minerales de la France.\#151 ; Bassin Houiller de Valenciennes/ two Carboniferous Ferns that distinctly branch in this manner , viz. , Mariopteris latifolia( loc. cit. Plate XVII .
, and Diplotemma Zeilleri Stur , Plate XVI .
) .
The additions I have made from time to time to our knowledge of the organisation of the interesting fructification , Calamostachys , have left but few lacunae in that knowledge to be filled up .
Two points , nevertheless , have as yet been obscure , viz. , the distribution of the vascular bundles in the central axis of the strobilus and the nature of the peripheral terminations of the fertile bracts or sporangiophores .
Figs. 7 and 8 of Plate 2 throw light on both these points .
Fig. 7 is a slightly oblique transverse section through an axis of Calamostachys Binneyana , in the centre of which , a , is a quasi-medullary cellular parenchyma more or less invested by scalariform vessels at b , At the points 6 , b , these tracheids are few in number , but at the four angles b ' , b ' they are much more numerous ; especially so in other strobili in my cabinet where such points approximate to the nodes of the axis .
Fig. 8 represents one of the finest tranverse sections of this Calamostachys I have obtained .
In it a represents the central axis corresponding to fig. 7 .
This centre is invested by the cortical zone , Jc .
The fertile sporangiophores appear at v , and their much-thickened peripheral extremities are seen at At the points v " , v " accumulations of tracheids appear .
On comparison of this figure with that given on Plate 54 , fig. 23 , of Part XI .
( 'Phil , Trans./ 1881 ) , it will be seen that these clusters of tracheids are concentrated in the immediate neighbourhood of the point v " of that figure , i.e. , where each sporangium , u , is organically united to the thickened end of the sporangiophore , u'.It thus appears that these peripheral terminations of the sporangiophores approach even nearer than they were previously known to do to those of the living Equisetums , in corresponding parts of which similar clusters of tracheids exist .
At g , g are transverse sections of the bracts of the next inferior verticil of the sterile organs , and at g ' , g ' tips of a yet lower verticil of similar organs .
On studying a number of slides prepared for me by my active auxiliary , Mr. Isaac Earnshaw , of Oldham , I found in several of them sections of fragments of a Z. elliptica .
In tlxe specimens which I first described , this part of the cortex had invariably dis* appeared .
But I have more recently obtained specimens in which this inner cortex , with its charac* teristic gum-canals , is preserved ; as is also the case in the specimen described above , where the layer in question is indicated by b.\#151 ; February 12th , 1889 .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
plant differing materially from , any that I have hitherto described .
The fragments are very Protean in form and structure , though possessing certain remarkable features m common .
Fig 9 ( Plate 3 ) represents one of the most characteristic of these .
It is a section of a branching stem or rhizome of the plant enlarged 14 diameters .
At A the section has crossed a branch obliquely , revealing a central vascular axis , a , composed of very fine vessels of the reticulated or pitted type , some of which are fully '01 of an inch in diameter .
The inner cortex , b ' , is composed of longitudinal lines of parenchymatous cells with transverse septa .
At B is a bifurcating branch , with its vascular axis a also bifurcating , composed of a dense mass of vessels partly barred , but some of which are reticulate , like those of A , a , though of smaller diameter , some of them not being more than '00125 of an inch in diameter .
The inner cortex , b " , resembles that of A , a , but the cells are of much smaller dimensions .
More externally we have at b ' a dense cortical zone composed of elongated prosenchymatous cells .
A small branch with a central vascular bundle appears to have been given off vertically at c ; there seems to have been a similar one at d , and there may possibly have been a third at e. F is obviously a tranverse section of either a branch or a root , the vascular bundle of which occupies its centre surrounded by an inner cortex , enclosed within a more dense external one .
The two external surfaces , g and g , are densely clothed with numerous very large , curved multicellular hairs .
The basal cells of some of these hairs are fully *005 of an inch in diameter , whilst some of them are fully *014 of an inch long .
Conspicuously cylindrical throughout the greater part of their length , they are tapering , slender .
Fig. 10 furnishes a carefully drawn representation of these hairs , as they appear at B g , g ' , enlarged 43 diameters .
Fig. 11 ( Plate 2 ) is a transverse section of one of these stems enlarged forty-four diameters , its mean one being '009 of an inch .
In its centre , a , is a cluster of tracheids , the entire cluster being about '02 of an inch in diameter , enclosed within b , which appears to occupy the position of a true bundle-sheath .
These tracheids are reticulated like those of fig. 9 .
A narrow zone of delicate parenchyma , c , lies between the tracheids and the supposed bundle-sheath , which may either have a circumferential phloem or a procambial tissue .
The inner cortex , consists of a very regular thin-walled parenchyma , which , in turn , is invested by e , a coarser prosenchymatous tissue .
Externally to this prosenchyma are numerous transverse isolated sections of hairs , f , of varying diameters .
The most striking feature of this section consists of the remains of four radiating appendages g , g , g " , g " .
The most perfect of these is g , in which we discover the central vascular bundle a invested by the two cortical layers d ' and These radiating appendages , taking their rise from what has been either the peri-cambium or the endoderm , and forcing their way through the cortical tissues of the primary axis without receiving any contributions from those tissues , can , I think , only have been either roots or secondary rootlets .
Fig. 12 is an oblique transverse section through a stem similar to fig. 11 , the lower end of which displays features identical with those of the latter figure .
It exhibits three of the radiating rootlets ( ?
) d , d , and d ' ; but d is fortunately intersected transversely , and enables us to identify several isolated transverse sections of these roots scattered through some of my slides , three of which are figured in figs. 13 , 14 ( Plate 4 ) , and 15 ( Plate 1 ) .
Fig. 13 has a mean diameter of '0025 of an inch ; fig. 14 of '01 , and fig. 15 of -025 .
In each of these examples we have the conditions seen in fig. 11 , g , viz. , a central bundle , a , invested by the two cortical zones d !
and e ' , as well as the apparent bundle-sheath b , enclosing the phloem c. In fig. 15 , which seems to represent a younger but smaller rootlet , the separation of the cortex into two zones is less distinct than in figs. 13 and 14 .
Its component cells also exhibit the tendency to arrange themselves in the concentric cycloidal circles so common amongst young rootlets of this character .
The vascular bundles of all these rootlets are of the diarch type , though possibly they may also be regarded , both in structure and development , as resembling the concentric bundles of Lycopodiaceous stems .
This plant , which I propose to distinguish as hirsuta , is wholly distinct from any which I have hitherto described .
Can it be identified with any living type ?
The young branches of the living Marsilece , M. quadrifolia and M. salvatrix , are clothed with hairs absolutely identical with those of fig. 10 , and longitudinal sections of these branches display similar irregularities of ramifications to those shown in fig. 9 ; rootlets , branches , and bases of fronds being alike cut through in sections made in almost any one plane , and their rootlets also remind us strongly of those seen in figs. 11 , 12 , 13 .
Without attaching an undue importance to these resemblances , the sections of Rachiopteris hirsuta undoubtedly suggest closer relationships with the Marsilece than with any other living plants with the organisation of which I am familiar .
The specimens described are from the Halifax deposits .
I have at various times discovered other forms of roots or rootlets in these Halifax Carboniferous beds , some of which at least are sufficiently interesting to be put upon record , as showing the early period at which certain types of these organs made their appearance on the earth .
The first of these I discovered in some slides also prepared for me by Mr. Isaac Earnshaw , of Oldham .
Fig. 16 ( Plate 4 ) represents a longitudinal section through a very delicate root , of which I have a number of fragments .
Their most characteristic feature resides in the circumstance that their secondary rootlets are given off in numerous verticils , c , c. The cellular parenchyma of which they consist exhibits extremely limited differentiation .
A primary vascular bundle , a , composed of barred vessels , runs down the centre of the primary axis ; and secondary ones , composed of vessels of smaller dimensions , a ' , a , bend downwards and outwards into the secondary rootlets .
The parenchyma , b ' , immediately surrounding the primary bundle consists of long , narrow , thin-walled cells , which are invested by an external bark , b , composed of a larger and more strongly marked form of parenchyma .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
1G3 I have several transverse sections of this root in my cabinet , one of which is represented in fig. 17 ( Plate 4 ) .
In its centre is a vascular bundle , a , having a somewhat irregular triangular section .
This is invested by a zone of delicate parenchyma , b. An enlarged representation of the transverse section of this bundle is given in fig. 18 ( Plate 3 ) .
On the upper side of fig. 17 are long sections of five , c , c , c , c , c , of the radiating secondary rootlets of the vertical axis from the cortical layer b ' , of which they are extensions .
Two similar specimens indicate that there were from ten to eleven rootlets in each such verticil .
As the cells of the cortex b are prolonged into each rootlet they become elongated radially .
Fig. 18 indicates that the central bundle of fig. 17 , here further enlarged , is a triangular one .
Fig. 19 represents a similar bundle of another transverse section like fig. 17 , and enlarged equally to fig. 18 .
It exhibits in a similar way the bundle a , surrounded by its investment of either procambium or phloem .
It is obvious , therefore , that the transverse section of the primary bundle of this root was triangular , presenting at least all the essential characteristics of a triarch root .
I would distinguish this plant , which , like that last described , is also from Halifax , by the provisional name of JRhizonium verticillatum.# Whatever may be the case with figs. 17 and 18 , I think there can be no doubt that fig. 20 is a transverse section of a true triarch root , enlarged 42 diameters .
Fig. 21 represents the centre of the same section still further enlarged ; is a triarch vascular bundle ; b , a concentric phloem ; d , cycloidally arranged cells of the cortex .
Fig. 22 ( Plate 3 ) is an obliqjie transverse section of a cylindric rootlet of another description ; at a a few vessels or tracheids occupy the centre of a mass of delicate elongated cells , either representing phloem or procambium .
The middle cortex , b , consists of a loose form of parenchyma , enclosing numerous irregular large lacunse of the type so common in the roots of the Nymphese .
Of course , this indicates no systematic relation with the latter plants , beyond the fact that our fossil root most probably belonged to some aquatic or semi-aquatic type .
At c is a compact quasi-epidermal investing layer of cells .
The specimen , which is from one of the Oldham nodules , may be designated Rhizonium reticula Fig. 23 ( Plate 3 ) is a somewhat larger rootlet , also with a lacunar cortex .
A strongly defined vascular cylinder , b , encloses a delicate medullary parenchyma and is invested by a compact zone consisting of several cycloidally arranged rows of * I was at first inclined to include these root-like objects in my provisional group of but , since they present few or no indications of being either rhizomes or petioles , I have determined to utilise Corda 's term Rhizonium for them .
Corda 's objects , to which he gave this generic name , he appears to have regarded as being probably the roots of Orchidaceous plants ; but they are really undis-tinguishable from the rootlets of Stigmaria ficoides .
Corda 's definition of his genus , " Radiculoo para-siticse , intertextae , cortice parenchymatosa ; fasciculo vasorum solitaris centrali vagina propria incluso " ( / Flora der Vorwelt , ' p. 46 ) , is , yritb the exception of the two first adjectives , fully applicable to my plants.\#151 ; February 12th , 1889 .
164 PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON ON THE ORGANISATION endodermal cells , c.Numerous thin vertical plates , d , chiefly but a single row of cells in thickness , radiate from the zone cto the thicker peripheral one f encircling numerous large , radially-disposed lacunae .
Every feature of this apparent root reminds us of the structure of the cortex of , described in my memoir , Part XII.* Whether or not the two belong to the same plant cannot at present be determined .
The specimen , which is from Halifax , may be named Rhizonium lacunosum .
Index to the Plates .
Plate .
Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
1 1 Rachiopteris Grayii , with transverse section of the vascular axis and some of its appendages : , medul- lary parenchyma ; a , five radial extensions of the same ; b , vascular axis ; b ' , end of the ray , b " of b , detached to form the vascular centre of a lateral appendage ; c , a hand of an apparently structural tissue , but possibly an only result of mineralisation ; d , numerous appendages , probably adventitious rootlets .
Number which the specimen figured bears in my Cabinet , 1832 .
XlO 156 1 2 A second section somewhat similar to fig. 1 ; , the cylin- drical axis of lateral organ , c , as in e , fig. 3 .
Cabinet number , 1833 .
X 10 156 1 3 Part of a section resembling 1 and 2 , including a Zygopteroid petiole : f , the central part of its vascular bundle : d , a zone investing the vascular bundle of the petiole identical in its nature with that investing fig. 1 at c ; e , a cylindrical appendage like fig. 2 , b ; d , d , rootlets ; g , black carbonised cortical tissue .
Cabinet number , 1831 .
X 9 156 1 4 Section of a well preserved Zygopteroid petiole , like fig* 3 : f the central bar of its vascular bundle ; f'-\gt ; J " \gt ; its transverse bars ; c , an investment of the * \#163 ; Pliil .
Trans. , ' 1883 .
OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
Plate .
Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
tissue c of figs. 1 and 2 : g carbonised cortical parenchyma .
Cabinet number , 1818 .
X 7 157 1 5 A small detached vascular axis having the appearance of being metamorphosed into a structure like the axis b of fig. 1 ; a , its incipient medullary centre , with traces of four radiations , like the five , a , of fig. 1 .
X 11 157 2 5a A transverse section of a cylindrical appendage , like fig. 3 , e , but in the centre of the vascular axis , e , is a point from whence radiate three lines apparently identical with the five , , of fig. 1 .
Cabinet number , 1830 .
X67 157 2 6 Transverse section of a petiole of Lacattii : y , y , its division into two secondary petioles ; central vascular bundle of the petiole ; secondary vascular bundles supplying the two branches , y , y ; a ' ' a " , vascular bundles destined for ternary branches or pinnules .
Inner cortical layer with gum canals , b. Cabinet number , 1181 .
X 2 159 2 7 Slightly oblique section through the central or vas-culo-medullary axis of Calam Binneyana : medullary parenchyma ; a few peripheral barred vessels : b , ' b ' , clusters at each of the four angles containing large numbers of barred vessels or tracheids .
Cabinet number , 1004 .
X 15 160 2 8 _i A transverse section of strobilus of Calamostachys Binneyana : a , central or vasculo-medullary axis ; Jc , coarse outer cortex ; fertile sporangiophores ; v , enlarged shield-like extremities of these sporangiophores ; v , " v , " accumulations of tracheids within the peripheral margins of these shield-like expansions and near the points at which the sporangia , u , are united to the sporangiophores ; g ' , g , ' tranverse sections of the sterile bracts forming the next inferior verticil of these organs ; g , g ' , sections of the upper Plate .
Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
parts of a still lower verticil of the same organs .
Cabinet number , 1000 .
X 40 .
160 A section through a branching fragment of hirsuta : A , oblique longitudinal section through a portion of a stem or branch ; a , a large vascular bundle composed of beautifully reticulated or pitted vessels ; b , b ' , cortical layers ; B , a second bifurcating branch of the same group ; a , the vascular axis also dichotomosing and composed of a mixture of barred and reticulated vessels or tracheids , the latter resembling those of A , a ; b , the inner cortex corresponding to A , b " ; b ' , outer cortex , like A , a zone of somewhat thickened prosenchymatous cells ; c , a transverse section of a small lateral outgoing branch , similar to a second one at d. At f is a transverse section of a corticated branch or root , with a vascular bundle in its centre , surrounded by two layers of a cortex , apparently like b " and V of the branch B ; g ' and g , external cortical surfaces densely clothed with large curved multicellular hairs .
Cabinet number , 1847 .
X 14 ... ... ... ... ... .
160 The clusters of hairs between the points g and g further enlarged .
X43 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
161 Transverse section of a branch of Rachiopteris hirsuta : a , the central vascular axis composed of reticulated tracheids ; c , a zone of delicate parenchyma enclosed within b , which latter seems closely to resemble a bundle-sheath ; g , g , g'\ g"\four radiating appendages passing outwards from the supposed bundle-sheath , b , through the bark .
These are probably roots .
Cabinet number 1845 .
X 40 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 161 Obliquely tranverse section through another branch of Rachiopteris hirsuta passing through the central vascular bundle at a ; b , the apparent bundle-sheath ; c , the zone of the probable phloem ; , , d ' , three OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
Plate .
| Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
4 13 radiating rootlets , d"being intersected transversely ; e , cortical parenchyma .
Cabinet number , 1846 .
X 17 A transverse section of a free rootlet , with a structure 161 4 14 identical with that of fig. 12 , d " ; a , a central vascular axis ; b , apparent bundle-sheath , enclosing the phloem , c , with the two cortical layers , d ' and e ' .
Cabinet number , 1844 .
X38 A section of a second free rootlet like fig. 13:6 , 161 l 15 apparent vascular bundle-sheath , enclosing the apparent phloem , c , and again invested by the two cortical layers , d and e. The vascular bundles are either those of a diarch root or they are concentric bundles like those of Ferns , the development of which began in the two foci of an ellipse of procambium .
Cabinet number , 1844 .
X 38 . . . .
Section of another and apparently younger rootlet 161 4 ' 16 than 13 and 14 , in which the cortical cells , e , are arranged in the cycloidal order common amongst these young rootlets : , vascular bundle ; b , bundle-sheath or pericambium ; c , zone occupied by phloem .
X96 Longitudinal section through the root of 161 4 17 verticillatum : a , a central vascular bundle ; a , secondary vascular bundles going obliquely downwards to the several rootlets of each verticil c , c ; b ' , delicate parenchyma surrounding the vascular bundle ; 6 , outer cortical parenchyma .
Cabinet number , 1909 .
X 15 Transverse section of a root like fig. 16 : a central 162 vascular bundle the transverse section of which is triangular ; b ' , inner cortical cells arranged in cycloidal order ; b , external cortex ; c , c , c , c , c , longitudinal sections of the bases of five rootlets of one of the rootlet verticils .
Cabinet number , 1907 .
X 65 162 Plate .
Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
3 18 Central portion of fig. 17 further enlarged ; , fibro- vascular bundle ; b , phloem ; inner cortex .
X 400 162 3 19 Central vascular axis of another transverse section like 17 , enlarged equally to fig. 18 : vascular bundle ; b , phloem ; c , cortical parenchyma .
Cabinet number , 1234 .
X 400 162 3\gt ; 20 Transverse section of a triarch root , from Halifax : a , triarch vascular bundle ; b , phloem or procambium ; c , position of the bundle-sheath ; cortex .
Cabinet number , 1234 .
X 44 162 3 21 Central portion of fig. 20 , further enlarged : a , vascular bundle ; b , phloem ; d , cortical cells .
X 175 162 3 22 I Obliquely transverse section of a root with a lacunar cortex , from Halifax : a , the vasculo-medullary axis with some vessels imbedded in procambial or phloem tissue ; b , inner cortex with large , radiating , irregular lacunae ; c , outer cortex .
Cabinet number , 1350 .
X 45 163 3 23 Transverse section of another lacunar root : , medullary cells ; b , cylinder of tracheids ; cycloidally- arranged endodermal cells ; d , numerous thin radiating cellular laminae , extending , when not ruptured , from the endoderm , c , to the external cortical parenchyma , ft and including numerous large lacunae , e. Cabinet number , 1892 .
X 7 .
163 Ml .
' VhiL .
Trcms.im9 .
B. Plate , 2 , Mkantsori .
__________________________________\#151 ; -------------------------------------------------\#151 ; ---- : Fig. n. ^ Whiteman A-Bobs , Fhcto-htho Loudon .
voisoii , I)el .
\#166 ; itamsori WilUamsori .
Thil .
Trcms.\Q89 .
3 .
UUcvmson Pkil .
Trcms.1889 .
B.Plate 4 .
Williamson , D el .
'Whiterajn lr\#163 ; \#171 ; i\lt ; , IViotv -Zitka LaaAoo.-

