" On the Use of the Barometric Thermometer for the determination of IRelative FHeights .
" By James R. Christie , Esq. Communicated by S. Hunter Christie , Esq. , Sec. R.S. , &amp;c. The objects of this communication , as stated by the author , are , first , to show the theoretical foundation of the very simple law pointed out by Professor Forbes , according to which the difference of the boiling temperature of water at two stations is connected with their difference of level ; and next , to test the accuracy of this law by a comparison of results deduced from his own observations on the boiling-point of water at different stations among the Alps of Savoy , Piedmont and Switzerland , with the heights of the same stations as determined by other observers and by different imneans ; and thus to arrive at ajust conclusion with respect to the value of the barometric thermometer as an instrument for determining differences of level .
Combining DeLuc 's formula reduced to English units , 99 b= 99 log 10f60804 , where b is the variable boiling-point on Fahrenheit 's scale and 3 the corresponding barometric pressure , with the formula of Laplace for the determination of the difference in level of two stations from barometric observations , he obtains the formula H= 547.99 ( b ' ) l+ ( -3 32 ?
) -00222 } , where b and b ' are the boiling-points on Fahrenheit 's scale at the two stations , t the mean temperature of the air at the stations , and H their difference of level in English feet .
The author describes the particular instrument he employed in his observations , and his mode of determining the correction which it required : he then gives , in a table , the observations he made on the boiling-point of water at thirty-eight different stations in the Alps , the heights of the corresponding stations above the sea level , deduced from these observations , and , for the purpose of comparison , the heights of the same stations deduced by other observers .
The difference between these and some of the author 's results are considerable ; but as they are not greater than would probably arise from ordinary barometric measurements , and as there is a close accordance between his results and the determinations on which the greatest reliance can be placed , he concludes that the results are on the whole satisfactory .
Considering it , however , desirable to obtain some test of the accuracy of each observation independently of the rest of the series , the author avails himself of the barometric observations made at the Observatory at Geneva and at the Convent of the Great St. Bernard ; and determining from these the corresponding temperature of boiling water , deduces the difference of level between each of his stations and these two places considered as fixed points : the sum of the height above Gerteva and the depression below the Great St. Bernard should in all cases be the difference of level between the two fixed stations .
Although there are here again considerable discrepancies , yet in most cases where the height of the station may be considered as well-established , the height deduced from the observations agrees with it in a very remarkable manner .
In another table , the author gives the difference of level between the Observatory at Geneva and the Great St. Bernard , deduced from the recorded observations at those places simultaneous with his own at his various stations ; and then remarks that the differences of height determined by the two methods do not differ from one another , in any single case , by so large a quantity as do the greatest and least differences of height deduced from the barometric observations ; while in many cases the accordance is almost perfect .
The conclusion drawn from the comparisons in these tables is , that the barometric thermometer is capable of affording highly accurate and satisfactory results , perhaps even more so than the common form of barometer , but that there is considerable uncertainty attached to its indications .
This uncertainty , far from being wholly attributable to the imperfections of the instrument as a measure of the atmospheric pressure , might , the author thinks , arise from an extreme susceptibility to rapid changes in that pressure , which remain unindicated by the more sluggish barometer .

