]\gt ; On Diferential Equations of any Order .
The machine the complete integral of the equation with its constants .
For , any particular yalue of , give ralues .
[ That is to say mechanically ; disconnect the from the ylinders , shift the forks the globes ' centres are at distances rom the axinl lines , then connect , and move the machine .
] We this of ; Jhat is , secure values by the arbitrariness of two imtial positions of the globes .
VI .
" " Mechanical Integration of the general Lineal Differertial Equation of any Ordel with Variable Coefficients By Sir , LL. D. , .
Receiyed 1876 .
of my brother 's disk- , , and ators , and ]chaill of them thus:\mdash ; Comlect the cylinder of the so as to give motion to its to fork of the second .
connect the cylin of the second the fork of the third , and so on .
Let .
, up to , be the positions of the globes time .
Let \ldquo ; . . . .
be ilnultancously to the disks 1llotion of some of the disp a it is cnient to take dent ) .
The motions of the ders thus are , . . . . . . .
( 1 ) But , the conncxions -een and forks which the and fole and ( , . . .
( ; 3 ) Supl the momcll{ that the { hc , the of hc \ldquo ; one of used 10 llCC , osive ncgative , the itxial liuc of hc rot .
} on hich it * Prof. 'W .
homson on general first fork , so their motions ] be equal\mdash ; hat is to say , Theu , putting fo denote the common of these bless , . . .
( 4 ) Thus endless chain or cycle of integrators with disks moved as pecified a ves to each fork a motion a differenti equation , which for the case of the fork of the integrator is equahon ( 4 ) .
The diflerential cquations of the displacemeuts of the second fork , third fork , . . .
fork may of course be written out by inspection from cquation ( 4 ) .
This eems to me an exceedingly interesting result ; but though , . . .
may be any given functions hatever of , the diflerential equations so solved by the simple cycle cannot , except for the case of , be arded n the gemeral linear equation of the order , because , so far as I \ldquo ; it has not been proved for value of greater than 2 the equation , which in its usual form is follows , .
( 5 ) be reduced to the form ( 4 ) .
The general equ tion of the form ( 5 ) , 11 here , . . .
are any given forms of , may be integrated mechanically by chain of connected infegrators thus : First all opcn of simple integrators as described above , and simplify the lnovement by , so that the speeds of the disks nrc equal , and denotes an angular motion of .
Then by ( 6 ) establish onuexions b ecn the forks and the cylinder , so that . . . .
( 7 ) Putting in this for , \amp ; c. { heir alucs by ( 6 ) , we iind equation he as ( 5 ) , except nppears instead of ? .
Hen ce the mechonism , he oved so to fulfil he condition performs by the .oliou cf its ] iion of the equation ( 5 ) .
solution is coml ) ; for rily { to ; thnt is to , to 376 .
] Differential Equations of any Order .
Until it is desired actually to construct a machine for thus intcgrating fferelltial equalious of the third or any highel order , it not necessary details as to plalls ' the mechanical fulfilment of colldition ( ; is enough to know that it be fulfilled by pure mechallism -ing )ntinuously in collnexion ith the rotating disks of the of inte- 'ators .
ADDENDUM .
Received February ] The may be npplied to any ation of ny order .
Let there be simple tors ; let be the disof disk , globe , and cylindel of the first , so for the others .
\amp ; .
by proper mechal estttblish such relations ' \amp ; .
ious ) .
Ihis just one degree of freedom ; simultancous equations solved .
As oJle particular case of relations take ( relatio])s ) , tions ) ; so is slill .
Lct it be Th es the equation .
for .
double integrators .
Lct the dishs of all bc counecled 274 Prof. Sir W. Thomson on general so as to move with the same speed , and let be the displacement of one of them any particular position .
Let . . .
be the displacements of the second cylinders of the several double grators .
Then ( the second of each being connected to its first cylinder ) the cements of the first globe-frames will be \amp ; c. Let now X , \amp ; c. be each function of / ?
, \amp ; c. By mechanism tho first globe of the first double frame move so that its displaccment slmll ) equal to X , amd so on .
The machine then uations \amp ; c. mple , let where denotes any Construct ( frictionless ) steel the sm.fnce whose equation is lieJlce , the .
By of it ( used as it 11 ere , but for two illdependent variables ) that one piece it , cnpable of ) to and ffi in a btrnight line , bavs displacement equal to Differential Equations of any Order .
27 another ' shall have displacement , cqual to at another shall have displacement equal to so on .
Then connect the first globe-fi .
am of the donble rator , so lat its acement shall be equal to the sum of the cements of is to sny , to This be done by cord passing over pulleys attached to the '-auxilial.ies , one end of it fixed and the other attached to the globerame in my mnchine , in 's alphnbetic Then , to , adjust the second and the second to have displacelnents cqual to the imtittl lelocify-compolents and coordillates of particles to ome plane .
[ tlrn the chine , the positions the particles at time shown the second ders of the Jllegl.tors , s11pposmg them bo cting or another ilh fol.cGs to any function of The , same ) one f particles hree dimensions space , since tho compon.cnts of orce ou each may constructed by aid of hose etion i and taking the distance veen any two particles , or \amp ; c. Thus hnye a complete mechanical blem of the free lnotions of numbel* of nutually influencing particles , not restricted by any of the suppositions hich the ] treatmcllt of the lunar and planetary theorles

