I. " Oni the alteration of the Pitch of Sournd by conduction through different Media .
" By SYDNEY RINGER , Esq. , late Physicians ' Assistant at University College Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. GARROD .
Received Novemsber 25 , 1859 .
Having observed that the pitch of cardiac murmurs underwent various alterations dependent on the constitution of the conducting body , the following experiments were devised to extend and render more certain the observations made oln the humani subject .
In most of these experiments a tuning-fork was used , and in all the alterations in pitch were tested by the ear .
In making these experiments , the note of the vibrating fork was first taken with the instrument close to the ear and without being in contact with any resounding body .
It was next placed oln the body which was experimented on , and lastly listened to through the medium of the same .
The alteration in pitch obtained by these two latter methods gave always the same results in kind , but not in degree , the alteration being always greater when the lnote was heard through the medium of the conducting body .
SOLIDS .
A board 13 feet long was balanced on the back of two chairs .
The niote of the fork was them takeni , without its being in contact with the board .
The fork in vibration being next placed at one end of the board , the ear was placed on the other , and the note was then found to be most appreciably lowered in pitch .
As boards composed of various kinds of wood were not obtainable , tables were used .
Of all the woods thus tested , deal lowered the pitch most ; indeed the lowering of the pitch was always in proportion to the porosity of the wood t. The pitch was found to fall the greater the distance from the fork .
*Bone lowered it .
Glass raised the pitch .
Iron raised it .
t Dr. Wild , the Conductor of the Philharmonic Societv , kindly examined and fuilly corroborated , in those experiments marked with any asterisk , the conclusions I had previously come to .
All the experiments were confirmed by numerous persons of acute car .
In no case was their opinion at variance with my own .
The two last , in conducting the note , greatly lessened the intenisity , much more so than the substances described above .
The muscular substance of the heart lowered the pitch .
Sklin and cellular tissue , oln the contrary , raised it .
LIQUIDS .
A large foot-pan was filled with water , and the vibrating fork was partly introduced into this , but as no sound could be heard in this manner without some resounding body , a small circular piece of wood was used for this purpose ; the fork placed orn this was first listened to ; the fork with the piece of wood was then placed under the water ; one ear was then immersed in the water , and the note so taken ; the pitch was then found to be most decidedly heightened .
Any objections to this method of performing the experiment were obviated by the following extension of it .
The eyes being firmly shut , any variation in the position of the fork , that is to say , whether it was moved closer to or further from the ear , was accurately determined by the alteration in the pitch .
Next , a glass tube 29 inches long , with a diameter of - , ths of an inch , was closed at one end , with a diaphragm of gutta percha , oilsilk , or bladder ( the same diaphragm being used in each set of comparative experiments ) .
The tube was then filled with the fluid to be examined .
The ear being applied to the diaphragm , the stem of the vibrating fork was introduced above into the fluid , care being taken that neither the finger nor the fork was in contact with the glass .
Experiments conducted in the above manner gave the following results .
*Water raised the pitch most appreciably .
* Alcohol still higher .
Ether higher .
A solution of protocarbonate of soda of the same specific gravity as the blood , raised the pitch more than pure water .
*A saturated solution raised it still higher .
adldition of any substance ( though iniereasing the specific gravity ) , whether in solution , or merely suspended in the water , heightens it ; that particles in suspension , indeed , heighten it more than solutions .
The fact of different fluids raising the pitch in variable degrees , excludes the possibility of the rise being due to the glass , or any other material used , unless the fluid varying in weight altered the pitch , by affecting the tension of the diaphragm ; but the fact of the alteration in pitch bearing no relation to the specific gravity of the fluid excludes this source of error .
The following experimeents were devised to test the influence of runnring water on the pitch .
Into an india-rubber tube , 13 inches long , and 3ths of an inch diameter , a funnel was inserted ; immediately below this a small opening was made , just large enough to admit the end of the fork .
Water was kept constantly running through this , and the stethoscope ( covered with a diaphragm ) applied to different parts of the tube ; by this method the pitch was found to be most appreciably raised the further from the fork the stethoscope was applied to the tube .
The elevation of pitch was easily recognized at a distance of 2 inches ( the length of the pulmoniary artery and adjoining part of the aorta ) .
The stethoscope having been unfortunately left behind , Dr. Wild could only apply the ear directly to the tube , and therefore could not speak so decidedly as he did concerning the other experiments , but he was of opinion that the pitch was raised as stated above .
It was next attempted to be ascertained whether the mere motion of the water increased or diminished the rise of the pitch .
It appeared that the pitch was very slightly raised by the mere motion of the fluid , the same point of the tube being listened to .
The difference in intensity was most marked .
The chief object of these experiments being to ascertain the influence of the different constituents of the human body on the pitch of cardiac and other murmurs , and in order that the experiments might , as closely as possible , simulate the actual phenomena in the body , an aorta was tied to the mouth of a tap , and an artificial iumrmur produced by causing a conistriction of the vessel by a piece of twine tied round it .
The pitch of the murmur so produced was decidedly raised the furtrher it was heatrd alon:g the vessel from the poirit where the so-tid was generated .
To set the question quite at rest of the possibility of the blood in a vessel raising the pitch , especially at so short a distance as 2t inches , the following experiment was devised -A tourniquet was placed over a man 's femoral artery , immediately below Poupart 's ligament , and an artificial murmur thus produced ; this was found to rise rapidly in pitch in passing down the course of the vessel .
A well-marked difference was noticed at a distance of only an inch , and decidedly more at a distance of 2-L inches .
The intensity of the murmur quickly diminished in passing to the right or left of the vessel , the pitch being at the same tinme rapidly raised , which was due to the interposition of integuments ; but this interposition could not be the cause of the rise of the pitch in the course of the vessel , as the murmur could be heard in that direction at a distance of at least 6 inches , whilst it was completely lost at less distance than 2 inches to either side of the vessel ; thuis the murmur must have been conducted by the blood , whilst the same thickness of integuments was over the artery at the lower and the upper point listened to , for both points were above the place where the sartorius muscle crosses the vessel .
GASE S. If a watch is pressed close to the ear and then gradually moved away , the tick is heard to rise in pitch in proportion to the distance the watch is withdrawn .
Or , if in place of the watch a tuning-fork be used , the same can be still more distinctly ascertained .
Then let the fork , either freelv vibrating , or , still better , placed on a resounding board , be moved gradually away from the ear , the pitch will be found to rise the further the fork is carried away from the ear .
An echo of a musical note is higher pitched than the original note .
Again , a loud cardiac murmur audible over the entire chest was examined in the following manner:e The patient was directed first to exspire to the utmost , and the pitch of the heart-sound was then ascertained ; he was then ordered to inspire to the full ; the pitch was then found to be raised .
In this experiment , the only variation was an increased amount of air between the point where the murmur was generated , and the ear of the observer .
The substances which lowered the pitch in the above experiments have one common property , namely , porosity , and , as far it could be ascertained , the depression of pitch was in proportion to this condition .
Is it possible that the small vacuities included in the substance , acting as resounding cavities , and reflecting the vibrations from their walls , may so direct them that they may somewhat interfere with one another , and thereby be somewhat diminished in number ?
The following experiment tends in some degree to support this conjecture .
It is well known that if the vibrating fork be held obliquely , resting on the table , " a loud resonance is audible ; but if the tuninigfork be moved parallel to itself along the surface of the table , the resonance of the table immediately ceases from the interference of the planes of vibration with each other ; " but if the fork is moved so slowly , and so that the resonance is not completely destroyed , the pitch falls slightly .
Againi , if the fork be applied to the head , and listened to first with the ear open , and afterwards with the ear closed , the pitch is found to be slightly lowered .
In all those experiments in which the pitch was elevated by conduction , it was found that there was diminished intensity in proportion to the elevation of pitch ; thus it would appear that all bodies raise the pitch in proportion to the difficulty with which they receive and cond-uct vibrations .
Dr. Scott Alison has proved in some recent experiments , that the cornductivity of nledia , as regards rapidity , does not correspond with that of intensity .
Of all tried substances , iron was the worst conductor as regards intensity , and this was found to raise the pitch most .
The above explanation is rendered somewhat probable from the fact that in all cases the elevation was greater with a weak note than a strong one .
Dr. Wild tells me that it has long been noticed by musicians that a weak note is somewhat higher pitched than a strong one , it being under these circumstances caught through the medium of the air .
Those bodies which , on the contrary , lower the pitch , do so to a greater extent with a weak note .
These explanations are offered with the utmost diffidence , on account of my very limited knowledge of acoustics .
On looking into the literature of the subject , the only reference to alteration of pitch by conduction is that by Dr. Walsh * , who ascribes it to transmission of the vibrations through " varying " media ,

