Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
December 12 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. " On the Action of the Spurge ( Euphorbia hiberna , L. ) on Salmonoid Fishes .
" By Dr. H. M. Kyle .
Communicated by Professor McIntosh , F.R.S. II .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. " V III .
Changes undergone by Chlorophyll in passing through the Bodies of Animals .
" By Dr. E. Schunck , F.R.S. III .
" On the Constitution of Copper-Tin Alloys .
" By C. T. Heycock F.R.S. , and H. F. Neville , F.R.S. IV .
" The Effective Temperature of the Sun .
" By Dr. W. E. Wilson , F.R.S. The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 23 , 1902 .
" Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
No. VIII \#151 ; Changes undergone by Chlorophyll in passing through the Bodies of Animals .
" By Edward Schunck , F.R.S. Received November 29 , \#151 ; Read December 12,1901 .
Considering the large quantity of food containing chlorophyll consumed by animals feeding on green herbage , it seemed to me it might be of interest to ascertain whether any , and if so what , changes are undergone by the chlorophyll of the food during its passage through the animal body .
It is stated in works on physiological chemistry that the solid excrements of animals contain chlorophyll but this statement refers apparently to human faeces , and is certainly not correct as regards those of herbivora if unchanged chlorophyll is meant .
It would indeed , a \ priori , seem very improbable that chlorophyll , after exposure at a somewhat elevated temperature to acids and other agents , such as it would meet with in its passage through the animal system , would remain unchanged , though , on the other hand , chlorophyll products of decomDr .
E. Schunck .
position , some of which , as I have pointed out on former occasions , are very stable bodies , might be looked for in the excrements of animals .
Having treated some of the faeces of a cow that had been fed for some time on grass only , with boiling alcohol , I obtained a dark greenish-brown extract showing an acid reaction , a quantity of undigested matter consisting of stems , woody fibre , \amp ; c. , being left undissolved .
A little of the filtrate , on being mixed with water and shaken up with ether , gave a golden-yellow supernatant liquid , which , if chlorophyll had been present in the material used , would have shown a decided green colour , and would have exhibited the absorption spectrum of chlorophyll .
In place of the latter , however , it showed the four absorption bands of phylloxanthin , as well marked , indeed , as I have ever seen them .
This simple experiment proved conclusively the absence of chlorophyll , but in its place the presence of one of its products of decomposition .
I have made no attempt to isolate and purify this supposed phylloxanthin , this being rendered difficult owing to the large admixture of impurities , which are chiefly of a fatty nature .
I he ethereal liquid just referred to would also have contained the urobilin of the feces if present , so I imagine at least if I have rightly understood what has been stated regarding that body .
The properties of urobilin , however , are not very marked .
It is only by its absorption spectrum that it can with certainty be detected , but this spectrum is too inconspicuous and too faint to be easily seen in a solution containing at the same time phylloxanthin with its dark well-defined bands , which would completely mask those of urobilin situated as these are in the same region of the spectrum .
Its presence , too , if proved , would have been of little interest from my point of view , and I therefore made no attempt to establish its presence or absence .
The extract of faeces with boiling alcohol gave , after filtration and cooling , a dark-coloured flocculent deposit , which was filtered off , dried , and treated with boiling chloroform .
The filtered chloroformic liquid left on evaporation a quantity of purplish-blue lustrous crystals .
These crystals , which are of considerable interest as regards both their properties and their origin , will be described presently .
They are more readily " prepared by extracting cow-dung after pressure between folds of paper with cold chloroform , filtering , and evaporating the filtrate slowly in a warm place , when the substance separates in the form of brilliant semi-metallic spangles floating in the liquid , which , after collecting and washing with alcohol , have the appearance of a lustrous crystalline mass .
From the brilliancy of its appearance an observer might easily be deceived as regards its quantity , which is not really large .
I have , however , obtained sufficient to enable me to determine its chief properties , and to justify the conclusion that it is a derivative of chlorophyll closely resembling , though not identical with , phyllocyanin , as I shall presently show .
Contributions to the Chemistry of Chlorophyll .
309 , For such as wish to prepare this substance , I may state , as the result of my experience , that it can only be obtained from the faeces of cows or other herbivora that have been fed exclusively on grass or other green vegetable food ; those of stall-fed cattle , nourished as they usually are to a great extent with oil cake , yield none , on account perhaps of the large amount of fatty matter present in that case in the faeces .
I may add that the solid excrements of sheep that have been at pasture for some time and living on herbage only , on being treated as above described , yield the* same substance , but I have made no experiments with the faeces of other herbivora .
I imagine that the yield of this peculiar substance is greatest from material collected in spring or early summer ; but this , if correct , may be due to other causes than difference of season .
I This substance not having , so far as I can ascertain , been previously observed , I propose to call Scatocyanin , a name kindly suggested to me by Professor Wilkins , of Owens College .
Its chief properties are as follows:\#151 ; Under the microscope it appears in the form of thin rhombic plates or elongated flat prismatic crystals , which are pale brown by transmitted light , of a purplish-blue colour with a brilliant metallic lustre by reflected light .
When heated between watch-glasses it is decomposed without melting or swelling much or yielding any sublimate ; heated further on platinum , it burns away , leaving a little ash .
It is almost insoluble in boiling alcohol , ether , carbon disulphide , and benzol , but it dissolves , though not readily , in chloroform , giving a solution which shows an absorption spectrum of five bands , almost identical with those of phyllocyanin .
It dissolves in boiling glacial acetic acid , giving a fine crimson solution , which , when sufficiently dilute , shows an absorption spectrum of four bands\#151 ; of which the two first are well defined , the third faint with some obscuration between it and the second band , the fourth band also faint and uot well defined ( see fig. ) .
From a saturated solution in boiling acetic acid the substance separates on cooling and standing in lustrous purplish-blue needles .
It dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid with a brilliant grass-green colour , which , on standing , changes to purplish-blue .
The solution now shows a characteristic absorption spectrum of five bands , of which the first and fifth are faint and poorly defined , the second and third well defined , but the fourth only moderately so , while there is much obscuration between the fourth and fifth bands , with just a trace of a sixth band in the green between the fifth band and the total obscuration ( see fig. ) .
The sulphuric-acid solution on being mixed with several times its volume of water changes its colour from purplish-blue to a fine purple without giving any precipitate and without showing any change in its absorption spectrum .
On standing , however , for some time the liquid Dr. E. Schunck .
becomes nearly colourless , and deposits rosettes of lustrous crystalline needles , presumably of unchanged substance ; so that it appears no sulphomc acid is formed in this reaction , the colour of the solution in sulphuric acid being due probably to a loose combination of the substance with the acid .
The substance is soluble in boiling aniline ; the solution is dull red , and gives with alcohol a deposit of brilliant needle-shaped crystals , the filtrate from which shows the same spectrum as the solution in acetic acid .
The substance is insoluble m aqueous caustic potash , but dissolves in.alcoholic potash , giving a yellow solution .
Absorption Spectru , of Solutions .
1 .
Scatocyanin in glacial acetic acid .
2 .
The same in concentrated sulphuric acid.* There is another substance of definite character and assuming a crystalline form which I have obtained , though not always , along with the preceding .
Having treated the faeces of a cow that had lived for some time on green vegetable food , with acidulated alcohol ( seventeen parts of rectified spirit to three of sulphuric acid , the mixture prescribed for the preparation of so-called stercobilin ) , I added water to the filtered extract and shook up with chloroform .
The chloroformic liquid after separation was evaporated , when it left a brown syrup .
This , treated with boiling alcohol , dissolved in part , a semi-crystalline pink residue being left undissolved , which , after separation , was found to be soluble in boiling acetic acid with a crimson colour , and consisted doubtless of scatocyanin .
A further quantity of this was deposited on again evaporating ; on further evaporation , the filtrate left a thin brown syrup which was mixed with a large quantity of alcohol .
On standing , a voluminous crystalline deposit separated , which was filtered off and slightly washed with alcohol .
The following are the chief properties of the substance so prepared : When dry it has the appearance of a dull red mass of crystal- line needles .
Heated on platinum , it melts easily to a brown mass , solidifying again on cooling ; on further heating , it gives off red fumes * These spectra were mapped by my son , Charles A. Schunck .
Contributions to the Chemistry of 311 and burns away , leaving no ash .
When heated in a test-tube or between watch-glasses , it gives a small quantity of amorphous brown sublimate with a few crystalline needles .
It dissolves in boiling alcohol , giving a bright yellowish-red solution , which , on cooling , deposits crystalline needles , becoming almost colourless .
It is moderately soluble in ether , benzol , and glacial acetic acid ; very soluble in chloroform .
The chloroformic solution shows no absorption bands , only obscuration in the blue .
It is quite insoluble in caustic potash liquor even on boiling .
It dissolves in concentrated sulphuric acid , giving a dull red solution , which , after the addition of a considerable quantity of acid , shows no absorption bands , only obscuration in the blue and green ; on the addition of water , the solution turns reddish-yellow without Igiying any precipitate , but on standing for a short time the colour turns to a fine violet , and then shows a broad ill-defined absorption band between the red and green .
Not showing any very characteristic reaction but the one last mentioned , it must remain doubtful how and where it originates .
It may possibly be a constituent of the green parts of plants not hitherto observed , though I believe it myself to be a derivative of chlorophyll\#151 ; meaning by chlorophyll the ensemble of the colouring matters of green leaves\#151 ; formed by some unknown IS process in the animal economy , but the fact of its solutions showing I no absorption bands does not lend countenance to this view .
Having I also observed it on one occasion only , X do not feel justified in giving lit a name or in placing it in any known category of vegetable or I animal colouring matters .
Another constituent of the faeces remains to be mentioned .
It was I referred to above as showing in solution the absorption spectrum of I phylloxanthin .
After all the substances capable of assuming a crys-I talline form have been separated from the alcoholic extract of the I faeces , this phylloxanthin-like substance is found in the final mother I liquor .
I have not succeeded in obtaining it in a crystalline or any I other definite form , on account probably of the large quantity of fatty I matter with which it is associatedbut there is no reason , I think , to I suppose that it differs essentially from the phylloxanthin described in I previous communications as a product of the action of acids on chloro- I ^ ^he conclusions to which the experiments above described lead may 1 be summarised as follows ; 1 .
The faeces of animals supplied with green vegetable food only\#151 ; f such at least as have so far been examined\#151 ; contain no chlorophyll , | but in its place substances which must be supposed to be derivatives I of chlorophyll , formed partly by the action of acids on the chlorophyll of the food , partly by some agency to which the latter is subjected in 1 its passage through the body .
2 .
Of these substances , one seems to be identical , with phylloxanthin , Dr. W. E. Wilson .
a well-known product of decomposition of chlorophyll .
Another is a substance of well-marked properties , nearly resembling , but not identical with , phyllocyanin .
It has not , so far as my experience goes , been hitherto observed as a result of any process of decomposition to which chlorophyll has been subjected outside the animal body .
I consider it as a body mi generis , characterised by its fine purplish-blue colour and its brilliant metallic lustre .
The existence of other products in addition to these two is possible .
On one occasion , indeed , a definite crystalline substance was obtained , which seemed to be peculiar , but that it was in any way connected with chlorophyll could not with certainty be maintained .
" The Effective Temperature of the Sun .
" By W. E. Wilson , D.Sc .
, F.K.S. Received December 5 , \#151 ; Bead December 12 , 1901 .
In March , 1894 , Dr. G. Johnstone Stony communicated to the Society a memoir by myself and Mr. P. L. Gray , entitled " Experimental Investigations on the Effective Temperature of the Sun , " which was published in the 'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 185 ( 1894 ) .
In these investigations the method we adopted was as follows:\#151 ; A beam of sunlight was sent horizontally into the laboratory by means of a Stony single-mirror heliostat .
The mirror was an optical plane of unsilvered glass , and the beam was directed into one aperture ( A ) of a differential Boys ' radio-micrometer .
The other aperture ( B ) received the radiation from a strip of platinum , which could lie raised to any desired temperature by an electric current supplied by a 1 battery of accumulators .
The temperature of this strip was at any .1 moment determined by its linear expansion , the instrument being !
previously calibrated by melting on it minute fragments of AgCl j and of pure gold , as in Joly 's meldometer .
In front of the aperture ( B\gt ; of the radio-micrometer was placed a stop with a circular hole of 1 5*57 mm. , and the distance of this hole from the receiving surface of the thermo-couple was 60*2 mm. This gave for the angle subtended | by a diameter of the aperture at the receiving surface 5'-301 .
Knowing 1 then ( i ) the ratio which the angular diameter of this circular aperture 1 bears to that of the sun , ( ii ) the temperature of the platinum strip ; at the moment that the radio-micrometer is balanced , ( in ) the amount 1 of the sun 's radiation lost by reflection from the heliostat mirror and : also by absorption in the earth 's atmosphere , it is possible on any 3 assumption with regard to the law connecting radiation with tem- | perature , to determine the effective temperature of the sun .
A series ] of very accordant observations were made in this way , the mean of 1 which gave 6200 ' C. as the effective solar temperature .

