]\gt ; west chain road , was carried four yards inwards towards the face , an laid flat on its side .
The flame traversed all the ake air-ways , except the new east road , and died out in some nearer to , and in others further from , the faces .
It did not in any case pass into a return air-way .
It did not leach the face of the workings at any point .
The new east road was quite undisturbed .
Two men who were working in ib felt a concussion of the air , but saw no flame , and came out unscathed .
This result appears to be due entirely to the circumstance that the principal stables were ranged along the entrance to this road , and the ground having been kept constantly wet with the water used in the service of the horses , the flame was ] to pasa that point for want of coal-dust to sustain it .
II .
" " Second Note on the Geometrical Construction of the Cell of the Honey Bee Boy .
Soc. Proc vol. 39 , p. 253 , and vol. 41 , p. 442 By Professor H. HENNESSY , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1887 .
If from the intersections of the diagonals of the three lozenges forming the apex of the cell , be erected , these will meet at a point on the ] 's axis , and each of them is manifestly the radius of a sphere tangent to the three lozenges .
A pIane passing through a radius and the axis passes through the short diagonal , , of the lozenge whose length is ; using the notation and results of the paper above cited .
The distance intercepted on the axis by a perpendicular let fall from the middle of the lozenge is equal to , and as this 1887 .
] Embryology of and farsupialia .
porpendicnlar is manifestly equal to and as we have , we obtain But is a diameter of the hexagonal prism perpendicular to two of its opposite faces ; hence a sphsre may be inscribsd within the cell from a point measured from the vertex at a distance equal to the side of one of the lozenges , and with a radius equal to half the long diagonal of this lozenge , while another sphere with a diameter equal three times the side of the lozenge circumscribes the triangular pyramid at the summit .
The diameter of the inscribed sphere is equal to the diameter of the cell , while the diameter of the exterior sphere is equal to the sum of three edges of the pyramid , and it thersfore follows from the first note , vol. 41 , that between these diameters we haw the expression\mdash ; The rolation between the geometrical cell and the interiol and exterior spheres whose diameters are connectsd by this equation may possibly have some bearing on the question of the formation of the actual cells .
III .
" " The Embryology of Monotremata and Marsupialia .
Part I By W. H. of Gonville and Caius College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Prof. M. FOSTHiR , Sec. R.S. February 22 , 1887 .
( Abstract.)* 1 .
The Egg-membranes .
In Monotremata , in very young ova , a fine membrane exists between the single row of follicular cells and the substance of the ovum .
This membrane , which I will call the vitelline membrane , at first increases in thickness with the of the ovum , and through it pass numerous fine protoplasmic processes connecting the protoplasm of the follicular cells with that of the ovum , and serving to conduct food granules , which , appearing in the of the nuclei of the * The author being at the present time in Australia and so unable to correct proof of this abstract , I have undertaken this .
In doing so I have ventured , for the sake of what appeared to be increased clearness , to introduce into S 1 some modifications of the author 's ripped , being guided therein by the author 's moro detailed account given in the fuller paper.\mdash ; M. FOSTIIR , Sec. R.S. VOL. XLII .

