VI .
Observations on the Effects of Magnesia , in preventing an increased Formation of Uric Acid ; zwith some Remarks on the Composition of the Urine .
Communicated by Mr. William T. Brand , F.R. S. to the Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry , and by them to the Royal Society .
Read February 2 , i8io .
MAR .
HOME'S enquiries into the functions of the stomach , and his discovery of liquids passing from the cardiac portion , into the circulation of the blood , * led himn to consider , that the generality of calculous complaints nmlight possibly be prevented , by introducing into the stomach , such substances as are capable of preventing the formation of uric acid , and that this mode of treatment would have many advantages over the usual method , which consists in attempting to dissolve the uric acid after it is formed .
He consulted Mr. HATCHIETT on the substance most likely to produce this effect , and asked if magnesia , from its insolubility in water , was not well adapted for the purpose , as it would remiain in the stomach , until it should combine with any acid , or be carried along with the food towards the pylorus .
Mr. HATCHETT knew of nothing more likely to produce the desired effect ; and on putting this theory to the test of experiment , it was found by a very careful examination of the urine , that in several instances where there was an increased formation of uric acid , magnesia dininished it in a much greater degree than had bee effeted by the use , and that a very liberal one , of the alkalies in the same patiet .
This circumstance led Mr. HomME to wisl for a more complete investigation of the subject , and he requested me to assist him in the prosecution of it .
Since tht tne many opportunities have occurred of carrying on the inquiry during an attendance on patients , labouring under calculous complaints .
It is proposed to lay the results of our joint labours before this Society , with a view to establish a fact of so much importance in the treatment of those diseases .
The four following cases , include the principal varieties of the disorder , which have been met with , and are therefore selected from among many others , to prevent unnecessary repetitiols .
In each of them the urine was occasionally carefully analysed .
CASE IA gentleman , sixty years of age , who had been in the habit of indulging in the free use of acid liquors , had repeatedly passed small calculi composed entirely of uric acid ; his urine immediately after being voided , deposited at all times a considerable quantity of that substance , in the form of a red powder , and occasionally in larger crystals .
Nine drachms of subcarbonate of soda , dissolved in water highly impregnated with carbonic acid , and taken in the course of the day at three doses , appeared to have no effet whatever on the formation of uric acid ; the red sand was deposited as usual , and the small calculi continued to form .
On account of the inefficacy of this medicine , he was advised to try the vegetable alkali , and three drachms of subcarbonate of potash dissolved in water , slightly impregnated with carbonic acid , were taken at similar intervals .
The deposit of uric acid in the urine , was now somewhat diminished ; but during this free use of alkalies , which with little interruption , was persevered in for more than a year , the small calculi still continued to be voided .
The very unusual disposition to form uric acid , and the complete failure of the common alkaline medicines , rendered this case particularly favourable for the trial of magnesia , as it would afford an opportunity of comparing its effects with those of the alkalies .
Previous to giving the magnesia , the urine was examined , to ascertain the quantity of uric acid it contained : this being done , the patient was directed to take fifteen grains of magnesia three times a day , in an ounce and a half of infusion of gentian in a week the uric acid was found , by examining the urine , to have diminished in quantity , and after the first three weeks , it was only occasionally met with .
The use of magnesia has been persevered in for eight months , during which time no calculi have been voided , nor has there been any material deposit in the urine .
This patient was extremely subject to heartburn , and he likewise complained of a sense of weight and uneasiness about the region of the stomach , both of which symptoms have disappeared .
CASE II .
A gentleman , about 40 years of age , had during four years occasionally voided considerable quantities of uric acid , in the form of red sand , and had once passed a small calculus .
His urine was generally , more or less turbid , and after taking any thing which disagreed with his stomach , even in a slight degree , the red sand often made its appearance .
He had never used the alkalies nor any other medicine , to alleviate his disorder , he was consequently desired to take a drachm and a half of subcarbonate of soda , dissolved in a pint and a half of water highly impregnated with carbonic acid , in the course of the day , and to persevere in this treatment for some time .
On the goth of January 1809 , he left London , and returned on the 6th of March following .
During his absence he had voided rather less uric acid than usual , but had had one severe attack , in consequence of which , twenty drops of the solution of pure potash we re added to each dose of the soda water ; this , however , had not the desired effect , for on the 10th of March , having taken more .
wine than usual on the preceding day , he was attacked with pain in the right kidney , and voided with his urine a considerable quantity of uric acid , in the form of minute red crystals .
During the succeeding day , he made but little water , which deposited a copious sediment of red sand .
For the removal of this symptom , he was directed to take magnesia , in the dose of twenty grains every night and morning , in a little water ; for three successive days his bowels were unusually relaxed , but afterwards became regular .
He Tr persevered in its use for six weeks without intermission ; his urine was several times examined during that period , and contained no superabundant uric acid , and he has not had the slightest return of his complaint , although he has put himself under no unusual restraint in his mode of living .
CASE III .
About the middle of October 1808 , a gentleman , forty three years of age , after taking violent horse exercise , was seized with pain in the right kidney and ureter .
In the course of the ' night he passed a small uric calculus .
For some months previous to this attack , he had felt occasional pain in the kidiey , but had never voided either calculi or sand .
His urine was now always turbid , and occasionally deposited red sand .
On the o8th of October he began the use of soda water , and for a time , his urine was much improved in appearance , but the uric acid gradually returned , and at the end of December , notwithstanding the continued use of the soda water , he voided more sand , and his urine was more loaded with mucus , than it had ever been before .
In consequence of these symptoms , on the gd of January 1809 , he was directed to take twenty grains of magnesia every night .
The urine was examined after the third dose , and the deposit of red sand was diminished in quantity , but it did not disappear entirely , after the magnesia had been taken for three weeks .
About this time ( on the 26th of January ) he caught cold , and his urine was again very turbid , but this was found to be wholly the effect of mucus , and the symptom soon left him .
14,0o On the 3oth of January , he took twenty grains of magnesia , and repeated it every night and morning , until the ist of March , when his urine was perfectly healthy , and he left it off .
On the Ist of June , he again voided a little uric acid , in the form of red crystalline sand : this attack was attended with a slight pain along the right ureter .
He returned to the use of the magnesia , which he took twice a day for three weeks , in the same dose as before , and from that time to the middle of November , there had been no symptoms of a return of the complaint .
CASE IV .
A gentleman , aged fifty six , after recovering from a severe fit of the gout , voided constantly a large quantity of mucus in his urine , a symptom which he had never before noticed .
There was also , occasionally , abundance of red sand , consisting principally of uric acid , but he had never voided a calculus .
His stomach was uncommonly weak , he was often affected with heartburn , and an almost constant pain in the neighbourhood of the right kidney .
He had been in the habit of taking tinctureof bark , and other spirituous medicines , from a belief , that the pain in his right side arose from gout in the stomach .
He had already attempted to use the alkalies , which had produced such unpleasant sensations in the stomach , that he could not be prevailed upon to try them again in any form .
Under these circumstances , he readily acceded to a new plan of treatment .
He was directed to omit the use of spirituous medicines , and take twenty grains of magnesia , three times a day in water , but this operating too powerfully upon the bowels , the same quantity of magnesia was taken twice a day only , with an additon of five drops of laudanum to each dose .
This plan was pursued without intermission for three weeks , and he received considerable benefit , as far as concern ed the state of the stomach , and pain in the region of the kidney .
Theurine , which was examined once a week , was also , on the whole improved , but it occasionally deposited a very copious sediment , consisting of uric acid , with a variable proportion of mucous secretion .
After a further continuance of the use of the magnesia for three weeks , the urine was often much loaded with uric acid , and mucus , but these appearances , which before the use of the magnesia were constant , are now only occasional , so that the disposition to form a redundant quantity of uric acid , is iuch diminished : it is also deserving of remark , that there has not been the slightest symnptom of gout from the time of the last attack , which is more than a year back , a longer interval of ease , than this patient has experienced for the last six years .
HIe has now omitted the regular use of the magnesia , but on perceiving any unpleasant sensation in the stomach , he returns to it for a week or ten days , and then again leaves it ofR .
From the preceding cases it appears , that the effects of magnesia taken into the stomach , are in many respects difierent from those produced by the alkalies , in those patients in whom there is a disposition to form a superabundant quantity of uric acid .
With a view to ascertain their comparative efects on healthy urine , when taken under the same circumstances , the following experiments were made .
Experiment 1 .
On Soda .
Two drachms of subcarbonate of soda were taken on all empty stomachl at nine o'clock in the morning , dissolved in three ounces of water , and immediately afterwards , a large cup of warm tea .
In six minutes , about one ounce of urine was voided ; in twenty minutes six ounces more ; and after two hours , a similar quantity .
The first portion becane very turbid , within ten minutes after it had been voided , and deposited a copious sediment of the phosphats , in consequence of the action of the alkali upon the urine .
It slightly restored the blue colour to litmus paper reddened with vinegar- : the alkali therefore , was not merely in sufficient quantity to saturate the uncombined acid in the urine , and consequently to throw down the phosphates , but it was in excess , and the urine was voided alkaline .
The urine voided after twenty minutes , also deposited a cloud of the phosphates , but the transparency of that voided two hours after the alkali had been taken , was not disturbed .
Here , therefore , the effect of the alkali upon the urine , was at its maximum , probably in less than a quarter of an hour after it had been taken into the stomach , and in less than two hours , the whole of the alkali had passed off .
Experiment 2 .
On Soda , with excess of Carbonic .
Acid .
The same quantity of soda , dissolved in eight ounces of water , very highly impregnated with carbonic acid , was taken under the same circumstances as in the former experiment , and the urine was voided at nearly sinilar intervals .
The separation of the phosphates was less distinct , and lss rapid .
In two hours after the urine had been voided , tlere was a small deposit , composed principally of phosphate of lime ; there was also a distinct pellicle on the surface , consisting of the triple phosphate of ammonlia and magnesia .
This appearance , produced by the escape of the carbonic acid , which had before retained the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate in solution , and which now occasions its deposition on the surface , is by no means uncommon , even in the urine of healthy persons : in the present instance , it appears to prove , that carbonic acid passes offffrom the stomach , by the kidnies , for after taking the alkalies in water , very highly impregnated with it , the pellicle is uniformly produced , and is also much more abundant and distinct , than under any other circumstances .
In similar experiments with potash , the results were in all cases as similar as could be expected in researches of this nature .
Experiment 3 .
On Magnesia .
Magnesia was taken under circumstances similar to those of the soda in the former experiment : in the quantity of half a drachm , it produced no sensible effect upon the urine during the whole day .
When taken in the dose of a drachm at nine o'clock in the morning , the urine voided at twelve o'clock became slightly turbid : at three o'clock the effect of the magnesia was at its maximum , and a distinct separation of the phosphates took place , partly in the form of a film , which when examined , was found to be the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia , and partly in the state of a white powder , consisting almost entirely , of the triple phosphate and phosphate of lime .
The effect of large doses of magnesia , in producing a white sediment in the urine , is very commonly known , and has been erroneously attributed to the magnesia , passing off by the kidnies .
These experiments , show that magnesia , even in very large doses , neither produces so rapid an effect upon the urine , nor so copious a separation of the phosphates , as the alkalies ; on this its value as a remedy in calculous disorders seems materially to depend .
Experiment 4 .
On Lime .
Two ounces of lime water , taken in the morning upon an empty stomach , with a cup of milk and water , produced no effect whatever A pint of lime water , taken at four intervals of an hour each , produced a slight deposition of the phosphates at the end of the fifth hour .
The urine voided at the third hour was not at all affected ; at the fifth hour , the effect appeared at its height , but was not nearly so distinct as from small doses of soda , notwithstanding the insoluble compounds which lime might be expected to form with the acids in the urine .
The unpleasant taste of lime water , the quantity in which it requires to be taken , on account of the small proportion of the earth which is held in solution , and the uncertainty of its effect , are circumstances which render it of little use , excepting in some very rare cases , where it has been found to agree particularly well with the stomach .
The'effect of carbonate of lime upon the urine , was much less distinct than that of lime water : at times it produced no effect , but when taken in very large doses , a slight deposition of the phosphates was produced .
These experiments were repeated upon three different individuals , and there was always an uniformity in the results .
When the nedicines were taken some hours after food being received into the stomach , their er'ects Upon the urine were retarded , but not prevented .
The effects of many other substances upon the urine were examined into during this investigation , but they varied so much according to circumstances , that no , satisfactory results : were produced .
As it is found in the foregoing experiments , that the effects of soda on the urine are modified by the presence of carbonic acid , the following experiment was made , to ascertain , whether any sensible effects are produced by that acid om healthy urine .
' Twelve ounces of water very highly impregnated with : carbonic acid , were taken ; upon an .
empty stomach at nine o'clock in the morning .
At ten o'clock about eight ounces of urine were voided , which had a natural appearance , but : when compared with urine voided under common circumstances , was found to contain a superabundant quantity of carbonic acid : this gas was copiously given off when the urine was gently heated , orwhen it was exposed underthe exhausted receiver of an air pump .
In a patient who had a calculus of large dimensions extracted from the bladder , composed entirely of the phosph ates , and whose stomach did not admit of the use of stron .
acids , carbonic acid was given in water ; it was found peculiarly gratefil to the stomach , and upon examining the urine during : tS use , the phosphates were only voided in solution , but when at any the it was left o , they were voided in .
the form of white sand-. .
From the Press of T. BULMER &amp; Co. Cleeland-Row , St. yames 's .
147

