IV .
" On a Crystalline Fatty Acid from Human Urine .
" By E. SCIUNCK , F.R.S. Received September 21 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) After referring to the various forms in which fatty matter occurs in human urine , and to our extremely defective knowledge regarding its physical and chemical properties , the author proceeds to describe a process whereby he obtained from healthy urine a small quantity of a substance having the properties characteristic of the fatty acids which are solid at the ordinary temperature .
The process consists in passing urine , after having been filtered in order to separate all insoluble matter which may have been deposited , through animal charcoal in an ordinary percolating apparatus .
The urine is thereby completely decolorized and deodorized , a small quantity of charcoal producing this effect on a large quantity of urine .
The charcoal , after being thoroughly washed with water , is treated with boiling alcohol , to which it communicates a bright yellow colour like * Irradiation would cause bands of the same thickness to appear thinnest in the more brilliant spectrum .
258 [ Nov. 15 , that of urine itself .
The filtered alcoholic liquid is evaporated , and the residue is treated with water , which leaves undissolved a quantity of brownish-yellow fatty matter .
This , after being purified in the manner described by the author , is found to consist principally of a fatty acid , having the properties characteristic of the group to which palmitic and stearic acid belong .
The acid is white , crystalline , has a pearly lustre , melts at 54 ?
'3 C. , volatilizes unchanged when heated , and is insoluble in water but easily soluble in alcohol and ether .
It is soluble in caustic potash and soda-lye , in aqueous ammonia , and in solutions of carbonate of potash and carbonate of soda .
The solutions froth on being boiled like ordinary soap and water .
The potash compound is obtained from the watery solution in the form of small pearly scales , and from an alcoholic solution in prismatic crystals .
The soda-compound separates from a boiling-hot solution on cooling as a thick , white , amorphous soap , a very small quantity of which is sufficient to cause the liquid to gelatinize .
The watery solution of either of these compounds gives white curd-like precipitates with salts of barium , calcium , lead , and silver .
The quantity of the acid obtained in the author 's experiments was too inconsiderable to enable him to determine its composition and atomic weight , and it therefore remains uncertain whether it is identical with any of the known fatty acids or not .
The author inclines to the opinion that it is a mixture of stearic and palmitic acid , which according to modern investigations constitute together what was formerly called margaric acid .
The author does not venture to assert that it forms a normal constituent of the healthy secretion , though the urine employed in his experiments in no case exhibited anything peculiar .
The experiments described do not throw any light on the question how this acid , which belongs to a class of substances almost insoluble in water , comes to be dissolved in a liquid like urine , which is itself usually acid .

