Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England .
Communicate by P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. The following abstract of this paper has been drawn up by the author .
The author endeavours to prove , by inductive reasoning and by historical considerations of the earliest indication of vitality in the egg , that motion of a fluid in a certain definite circle constitutes the first link in the chain of causes by which vitality is perfected ; that all the other phenomena of living structure are supplementary and superinduced upon this primary and indispensable condition ; and that , although it might be possible to maintain this primary circulation under certain circumstances , even though all the other functions of life were suspended or destroyed , they , on the contrary , cannot exist independently of that circulation .
He shows it to be necessary to circulation , that two fluids , or a fluid in two different states , should communicate by two points or extremities with each other , and that these extremities should present such a resistance to their mutual connexion and commixion , that the transfer of conditions of each , from one to the other , must take place , otherwise the uniformity of both would speedily put an end to the process ; and it is indicated that the forces in operation in these two places would be reverse to each other ; in the one it would be from arterial to venous , and in the other from venous to arterial .
The blood-vessels containing the two kinds of blood are compared by the author to two bar-magnets placed side by side , the pulmonary and systemic capillaries representing the armatures placed at their extremities ; with this limitation , that as the changes in the blood take place only in the two opposed sets of capillaries , the force is necessarily generated only in them , and therefore the intermediate blood contained in the larger blood-vessels merely represents conducting wires completing the circuit .
The left side of the heart is viewed as being placed in the largest ampulla of the arterial circulation , and the right side of the heart as being in the like position with respect to the venous current .
The portal circulation is alluded to , in order to prove that a propelling force is not essential to produce circulation of blood .
An account is given of numerous experiments on various animals , in which the ends of two similar wires ( in some cases of copper and in others of platinum ) were inserted ; that of the one into a vein , and that of the other into an artery , the free ends of both wires being brought into connexion with a delicate galvanometer ; and it was found that during life a galvanic current was indicated , passing along the artery and returning by the vein ; that this current became more feeble in proportion as the vitality of the animal declined , and again more strong as the effect of the chloroform , which was administered for the purpose of preventing pain , subsided .
The author also observed , that the strong action of a muscle ( the sterno-mastoid ) between the two blood-vessels tended to discharge the galvanic force as it was generated ; and that when that muscle was divided , the galvanic force became much stronger .
When the connexion of the current with the lungs was severed by a ligature placed on the vein between the insertion of the wire and the heart , the current was instantly reversed , passing up the vein and returning by the artery .
The same reverse current was indicated when the wires were inserted into portions of the blood-vessels which had been isolated , each by two ligatures , placed the one above and the other below the insertion of the wires .
A similar effect was also obtained , as long as the blood continued to coagulate , when the two kinds of blood were drawn from the blood-vessels into separate cups , and brought into connexion with the galvanometer ; the blood in the cups being connected together by the ends of a piece of copper or of a strip of muscle dipping into each .
Several experiments are related , tending to prove that the power which fluids , differing chemically from each other in however great a degree , were supposed to possess of acting chemically upon the copper wire , and thus generating currents , had been greatly exag .
gerated ; and that much which had been attributed to this cause deserved rather to be ascribed to the polar forces , which the fluids had a tendency to assume , being discharged through the copper as a conductor , since the sane effect was produced when platinum was used , and in an appreciable degree even when no metal was in contact with those artificial compounds , cotton moistened withc water being only used to make the different connexions with the fluids .
The author then traces the course of the blood in the foetus , showing that the blood passes in it , throughout the body , in the direction wholly from artery to vein ; the upper half constituting one segment , and the lower half of the body the other segment of the circle ; and pointed out that , thus far , there was no antagonism of forces , and therefore no power of generating a galvanic current , which he indicated was supplied by the smaller circle , through the placenta , joining the larger circle at the vena cava , and leaving it at the hypo.gastric arteries ; the smaller circle inducing the current in the larger , in the same manner as the larger circle in the adult may be supposed to induce lesser secondary circles , as the hepatic , &amp;c. The author then dilates on the importance of the galvanic current in physiological and pathological inquiry ; pointing out the peculiar significance of the fact of the reverse current being established as soon as the direct current is impeded ; the systemic capillaries being endowed with the power of generating a force exactly the reverse to that set up in the lungs ; the rapidity of the circulation thus being , ceteris paribus , the measure of the excess of the primary force over the resistance .
He infers , that the galvanism found in the muscles owes its origin to the opposed condition of the blood in the capillary network which supplies each ; the anastomoses of the arterial capillaries with each other increasing their galvanic surface , while their limited anastomoses with the veins supply the conditions necessary for the passive current .
The office of conductors , for the active discharge of the accumulated force , is assigned to the nerves of the voluntary muscles ; the author believing that the circuit by which this is effected is , in them , prolonged up to and from the nervous centres ; which centres are , in their turn , shown to be liberally supplied with blood-vessels capable of influencing the galvanic equilibrium .
The accelerated respiration caused by increased muscular exertion is attributed to this cause .
It is inferred , that the involuntary muscles are provided with apparatus within themselves , adapted to regulate their periodical galvanic discharge .
The mutual reaction of distant parts is attributed to the fact of the whole body being included in one galvanic circle , which cannot be disturbed in a part without the whole participating proportionally in the effects .

