VII .
Descriptzon of Kilburn Wells , and Azaal3tsi3 of their Wterv By Ilir .
Joh. Ctodfr .
Schtneissere Communicated by Sir 3eseph Banks Bart. P. R. S. Read February 28 , oge .
1 HQSE wells lieto the right of the Edgeware Reads about t &gt; to / miles from London , in a dry ) but verdaIlt ) and gelltly * the atmosphere .
When the water cvntinues at restX no-bullition of Exed air is perceived , and scarkee any sulphureous smelle That this mineral water so easily parts with the hepatic air ( perceivable on agitating it ) if it be shaken in a warmer te:m perattire or tralNlsported froul one place to another , is probably owing to the fixed air which it contains : for as this aerial acid has a great affinity to phlogiston ; so it may hence he itlferred that fixedv and hepatic air cannot exist together in a mineral water , but that the latter will be destroyedJ as the Sxed air is developed by gentle warmth Cbeynical Experimentse Examlnation Qf the Kilburn AYaters by reagent Substances E XPERI MEANT I. The tincture of litmus is a very little affected by the water fresh from the spring ?
and not at all after having been boiled &gt; which proves that this water contains very little aerial acidJ EXPE , R I MEANT I 1$ Paper stained with a decoction of logwoods is someurhat challged , to rather a bluish hue , by fresh water ; from this I infer , that the water contains a little absorbent earth dissolved .
*1* ll1 aerlal acld .
EXPERI MEANT 111 On adding 4,2 droles ; of the purest concentrated vitrtiolic acid to two pourlds of the Kilburn water ) it became periectly clear and some air was disengaged ; this air rendered litne-Nvater turbid .
EXPERIMENT.^ A fesY drops of pure and nitrous acid were dropped into a tutnbler fiull ofs the water ; the stnell of hepatic air was diminished , and hardly any precipitate fortned .
From this experiment it becomes probables that the water contains no liver of sulphur , but only hepatic air o from the appear ances on adding the vitriolic acid , maynbe inferred , that this water contains little calcareous earth and no terrcz ponderos* EXPERIMENT Y In order to ascertain whethex the hepatic air really existed in the utaters or whether the appearances which made this pro bable might not arise from the air of lnarshes , which will occasionally imitate the other , I filled three Iquart bottles with distilled waters and nearly emptied them just over and alS most in contact with the spring The air , which of course took the place of the a ater I had emptied , was subjected to the following experiments : ( a)-A piece of white arsenic being immersed in it , its sllrface soon became yellow .
( b ) A solation of flead being put into one of these bottlesa the precipitate which was formed soon became of a blackish brown colour ( c ) A solution of silver being put ilatO the t ; hird bottle ) the precipitate fortned was blackish .
All these are proofs of the existence of the hepatic air .
EXPERIMENT V [ .
On addig a few dropsj both of the aqueous and spirituous infusion of galIs , to a glass of the fresh water , no change of colour took place ; yet by mearls of M ell saturated phlogisti cated alkali some traces of iron were perceiared .
EXPERIMENT VI I. A solution of soap ill spirit of vine being dropped into the water , vjas immediately decomposed by it .
This proves it to contain laeutral saltsg EXPERIM-ENT VI : II .
By addixag some acid of sugar both to the fresh and the boiled Kilburn water , calcareous eartHh was pre-cipitated ; which shows that this water ccontains aerated calcare-ous earth- , and selen ; te .
EXPE-RIA{EN TI X. By adding aerated volatile alkali , magnesia and calcareous earth were precipitated both from the fresh and the boiled watert EXPERIMENT X. Caustic volatile alkali precipitated both magnesia and calcareous earth from the fresh water ; a proof of its containing these earths in a state of combination with the aerial and other acids .
EXPERI MENT X I. Caustic fixed alkali precipitated from the fresh water aerated magrlesia .
( It is to be observed with regard to this experiment , that the precipitate should be separatzed as $0011 AS formed ; otherwise , if there he iron contaitled } thatwvill 1SQ be prec ; pitated together with calcareous earth ) .
EXPERIMENT XII .
Qn dropping muriated Ierra ponderosal into the fresll waters the earth is precipitated ; which also happensf but in a less degree if the water has been boiled ; this proYes it to contain itriolated soda and luagnesia , the other seleniteX .
To ascertain the quantity of vitriolic acid contained itl these salts as much pure acetous acid &gt; as first added to otle pound of the water , as was required to saturate the earth .
Then a so lution of terrv ponderosa in nitrous acid was carefillly dropped into the tnixtures till no more precipitate was formed ; the -thus regenerated spar was carefullycollecteds edulcorated and drieds when it weighed 60 grains Now if loo grains of ponderous spar contain ex grains of vitriolic acidn it will fbllo\v7 that one pound of the Kilburn water contains about wS grains of this acid EXPERIMENT XI II .
Vitriolated silver xras dissolved , and acltded to the Kilburn water , previously impregnated with pure lz-itrous acid , to eSect a solution of the earthy particles contained in ity The silver combined with the muriatic acid in the water , and formed a luna cornev : but I do not estimate the ( 3uantity of the acid in the water from this experiment , which is liable to deceisre as vell as the preceding Wthis will appear on coznparing the result with the real quantity of vitriolic acid as given ill the contents of the ^rater aIlnexed to these experiinentsX EXPERINtENT X IV .
A quantity of the Kilburtl water having been gently eva porated to dryness , a powder remained ; some of this being trittlrated with 07egetable alkaliX there stas no smell of volatile alkali percoived .
EXPE RI MEANT XY .
A little of the powder having been luixed writh tartar , and thrown into a fred hot crucible , no detonationS happened ; of course nitre wsas not one of the constituent parts .
EXPER I MEANT XVI.\. .
Onmoistening a little of the powder with pure and concentrated ritriolic acidg there arose muriatic vapours ; a proof there were no salts formed vsrith the nitrous acid existing in this srater .
The Kilburn water therefore contains fxed air , hepatic air , earthy nqutral salts , vitriolated and inuriated neutral salts , cal careous earth , magnesia , selenite ?
and a very little iron .
These component parts of this tnineral water appeared on the addition of reacting substances ; and with this guide I proceed to the analysis .
I beg , howevern first to mention another experiment or two , relatifire to the effiects of thisEwater Two quarts of the fresh drawn water having been successively drank , operated gently downwards , but at the same time affected the head a little .
This Cspecies of intoxication was , however , not produced , if the water had been freed from its hepatic air The Gelerity of the pulse was but little increased by it ; yet the following experiment will prove that it }ervaded the whole systetun and affiord a v:ery strong argument in favour of its eflicacy .
A small plate of silver was placed under the arm , it cotltact with the skin and thus worn for some hours without being tarnished by the perspirable tnatter ; a bottle of the Kil burn water having now been drank , in less than half an hour the silver was become hlack .
One ourlce of fresh gall wras mixed with a quart of the water + as it came from the spring , and into another bottle was put the same quantity of gall , with a quart of distilled wwater , and 1ooth were place(l in a rarmth of 96oX After ten hours the latter mixture began to show signs of putrefaction , while that with the Kilburn water continued perfectly sswreet .
Twelve hours aRer , this also became putrid .
Two-ouIlces of very putrid gall wJere mixed with a quart of Kilburn water , and placed in the same warmth .
The fttor was soon diminished , and after three hours no longer percep tible .
Two ounces of putrid gall were mixed with two ounces of distilled waters in which 24 graills of the saline mass obtairled by evaporation from the Kilburn water had been previously dissolved ; and this mixture was likewise placed in a *varmth eqalaI to 960 .
iNfter e. ; 2 hours the offensive smell had gone completely off : Similar experiments were made with blood and the results were the same .
E3rperiments to ascertolirl the Properties and Pr.opartion of the Elastic Fluids contained in the Kilburn AVater .
The apparatus with 51Yhich these experiments were instituted contained 16 cubic inches : the -cylinder for the reception of the extracted air , eight cubic inches .
Illto the Jar were put + cubic inch $ of the fresh drawn water 3 and having been immo diately contlected with the apparatusn it was placed in a lamp filrnace .
The heat having been gradually increased till the water began to boil , six cubic inches of the quicksilver , with which the cylinder had leen previously filled , were displaced by the air which calue over .
This V}SS@1 having been artificially cooled to $o , the air was contracted one-fourth of an inch Now , if the two cuble inches of atmospheric air , left in the jar be deducted , there remain 34 cubic inches of air expelled from o4 inches of the water .
Byagitation in lime-Xvater 24 cubic inches ere absorbed , the precipitated aerated litne weighed 28 grains .
The remaining gas was found to be hepatic air .
Experiments to ascertazn thefixed constituent Parts of tb@ Kilburn AYaterg and their Properties .
EXPER I MEANT l. Twerlty fotlrpounds of water ( at 16 ounces ) were errapo rated in one of the Wedgwood basonsX by a gentle heat , down to four ounces ; this residuum was then reduced to perfEct dryness ln a small glass vessel .
The mass thus obtained M7as scaly , with crystals intermixed , and of a yellowish hue ; its taste was bitter , and but little sharp ; the weight lgoo grains ( which were equal to rS60 grains of the further used accurate weight ) , which divided by 24 gives for every pound of the water 79 grairls of sclid matter The bason in which the first evaporation had been made , was leinced with a little aqua regia , that such earthy par-ticles as might have adhered to it sIlould not lbe lost ; this solution was put aside and lnarked AS E XPER I ME , NT I I. The dry residuum obtained as above was rubbed with a little aIcohol , and a stlfficiency of this spirit having been added , the w}oole was placed in a gentle wartllth , and often stirred with a glass tube : after a few datrs the fluid vjTas decatlted , and what remained indissoluble , having been edulcorated : with alcohol , and carefully collectedand dried itz a moderate warmtha was found to weigh:392 grains ; so that od8 grains had been taken up by the alcohol .
The spirituous solution was gently evaporated , When lSo grains of a yellowish , easily deliquescent salt remainedv having a bitter and acrid taste .
By adding to this oneounce of the strongest alcohel , all the deliquescent salts were dissolved , leaving 40 grains of a saline substance ; which having beenagain dissolved in distilled water and crystallized , was found to be common salt .
The solution of the deliquescent salts having been lYlixed : with 2:0 drops of pure ritriolic acid , some selenite appeare-d ; the whole was now evaporated to dryness , and havirag beenf lnixed with 3 of its ; weight ofpurevitriolic acid , it mJas exposed to a considerable heat .
The vapours thusV expelled were those of the muriaticL acid .
When these had ceased , and the masswasfcold , I again dissolved it in distilled water , when a black flaky substance was separated , which being carefully collected on filte:ring paper , and dried , weighed six grains ; this w &lt; as resrou-s natter .
The solution was now placed on the fire , in ordery to -evaporation,0during hich l--2 grains of selenitewereseparated- ; the remainder afforded vitriolated magnesia , leaving-some-drops of a yellowish fluid , fromhich , by the acldltiola of caustic 1R 2 volatile alkali , a very small quantity of calx of iron was precipitated , which , when dry , weighed about 8 'f a grain .
It appears , from the above experiments , that the spirituous solutionheld of : Muriated soda 40 grains .
magtlesia : 128 grairls .
calcareous earth 6 graitls .
Resinous matter 6 grainse Calx of iron 8 grain .
EXPERIMENT II I. The reslduum of the second experiment , which was not soluble in alcohol , was digested with distilledater , and often stirred .
The water took up 1204 grainsO lthis solution was filtered , the residuum often edulcorated and dried ; this weighed s88 grains .
The solution was evaporated in a gentle warluth to one third , and being thetl set in a cold place , og grains of selenite were separated .
Having further evaporated the remaining solution , I now mixed-it with double its weight of alcohol , and after having agaitl heated this mixture , *I let it cool gradually ; thus all the vitriolic salts were separated .
I ; -again dissolved this saline mass in distilled w-ater , and , after gentle evaporation , obtained crystals , weighing altogetherK 1200 grains , and consisting of vitriolated tartar , and vitriolated soda : from the remaining ley I obtained , on further e^7aporation , 10 grains more of common salt .
There were no traces of an uncombined alkali , which must othervwrise have now shewlw itself .
The 1200 grains of mixed salts , which had crystallized first , were again dissolved ill water , and this solution made to boil ; a hot solution of lnirleral alkali was now mixed with it , and the magnesia thus separated weighed , when wash:ed and dried , J.7O grains : this having been again saturated with diluted vitriolic acid , affiorded gto graills of pure crystallized vitriolated rllagrlesia .
The solution remaining after the separation of the magnesia having been duly evaporated , yielded 282 grains of crystallized GLAUBER salts , exclusive of what had been formed byr the above-mentioned admixture of the natroll .
EXPERIMENT IV .
The 188 grains of remaining-:earth , mentioned in the preceding experiment , vitere put into aqua rzgia , :and the solution mentioned in the first experiment , as marked ( A ) , was added .
This mixture having been well heated ; and again suffiered to cool , was put on some filtering paper ; : and : what rernained on this , having been well waslled with diluted spirit of wine , and dried , weighed 1 12 grains .
the filtered solution was then getatly evaporated , ( luring wrhicll it deposited six grains of seletlite ; a sufiiciency of phlogisticated alkali was now added , to separate the irorl ; 25 grains were required , and the dried blue precipitate weighed 15 grains .
( It is to be observeds that the phlogisticated alkali colltained , in 2tS g ; rains , 4graitas of the calx of iron .
) The above blue precipitate was put into a sall crucibles and kept for a proper tirzle Ain a red heat , when it left 72 grains of calx of iron , which was attracted by the magnet ; if from this be deducted the e grains contained inxthe alkali , there ^7ill remaitl tElree grains xyhich had been contained in the water .
EXPERIMENT w The solution , from which I had precipitated theirons was evaporated , and nzixed with vitriolic acid , and diluted spirit of wines nrhen yg graills of Selenite MJere separatect : these 72 grains of selenite having been boiled uZith mineral alkali yielded 24 , grains of calcareous earth EXPER I MEANT v I , Tlle rertlainder of the solution frorz whicTl the calcareous earth had , by means of thevitriolic acid , been separated in the form of seleniteg yielded lzJ , r adding mineral alkali 72 I grains - more of magnesiae A11 the selenite ; obtained wa.s boiled in oo times its-weight of rater , in which it W0a$ completely dissolved5 no siTiceous earthf being leffi As a proof that the process $ had been prQefly conducted I $atura-ted both the obtfained earths ; with diluted vitriolic acid ; when the first again affblded selerlitet md the other ritriolated. .
mSnesia .
Summary of the constituent parts of the Kilburll Water in 24 Pounds .
Fixed air Hepatic air nea V ; triolated magnesia Vitriolated natron Muriated natron Selenite -Muriated magnesja calcareous earth Aerated magnesia calcareous earth * -Calx of iron Zeslnous matter 84 cubic inches r g6 glo grains , equal to gij 3iiss ?
Apothecary 's ureight .
282 gr. 60 gr. ogo gr. 8 gr. 6 gr , 12gr .
24 gr. 38 gr. 6 gr 3v .
lij grairls = 75 gr.

