On the Nature of the intervertebral Substance in Fish and Quadrupeds .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 23 , 1809 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 177 .
] The author , having observed a new species of joint in the Squalus maximus of Linnaeus , takes occasion to trace the successive gradations of a similar structure , through various kinds of fish , to the more remote resemblance to be found in quadrupeds and in men .
In the Squalus each joint of the spine approaches , in some measure , to that which is termed the ball and socket joint , as a concave surface of each vertebra is applied to a ball ; but the ball , in this instance , is not , as in other cases , a smooth surface covering a solid bone , but a collection of fluid contained in a bag that is nearly spherical , round which the concave surfaces of the vertebrae are moved .
In a fish of thirty feet in length , the diameter of the body of one of the largest vertebrae measured seven inches ; the quantity of fluid in one of the cavities amounted to three pints ; the ligamentous substance , which unites the vertebrae , being nearly one inch in thickness , externally very compact and elastic , but internally possessed of but little elasticity .
The elasticity of these ligaments preserves the straitness of the spine when it is not acted upon by the muscles , or by other external force ; and though the extent of motion , in any one joint , must be small , their number affords considerable latitude of motion .
Since the vertebrwe , in other fish , are found with concavities in each surface , it was natural to expect a corresponding resemblance in the intervertebral structure ; and in the skate this was found to be the case , and the cavity nearly spherical , as in the Squalus .
In the common eel it is more oblong , the longitudinal diameter exceeding the transverse one by about one third .
In the sturgeon the structure varies considerably , as the cavities communicate with each other by apertures through the bodies of the vertebrae , which in this fish are cartilaginous rings , connected toge .
there by ligament , and forming a tube communicating from one extremity of the spine to the other .
This species of intervertebral joint , which thus appears common to the fish tribe , is not found to obtain in the whales , as their structure in this , as in many other respects , is the same as that of quadrupeds , but is more distinctly visible , from the vast size of the parts .
In them the intervertebral substance is arranged in concentric circles , connected by transverse fibres , the external layers being very firm and compact ; but the interior become successively softer , till in the centre there is a soft pliant substance , more like jelly than an organized body , corresponding in its use to the incompressible fluid in fish .
In the bullock , sheep , deer , monkey , and man , the structure corresponds with that of the whale ; but in the hog and rabbit a cavity was observed , with a smooth internal surface extending through half the diameter of the vertebrae ; so that the structure in these animals imitates that of fishes , though not for any obvious purpose .
In the alligator the several joints are regularly articulated with capsular ligaments , and are lubricated with synovia .
In the snake there is a regular ball and socket joint between every two vertebrae ; so that the means employed for the motion of the back-bone in different animals , comprehends almost every species of joint .
Mr. Home 's paper has annexed to it an appendix , by Mr. William Brand , giving an account of the chemical analysis of the fluid contained in the intervertebral cavity of the Squalus maximus .
Its specific gravity was found to be *1027 It was not coagulated by heat .
No precipitation was occasioned by infusion of galls , or of catechu ; nor was any change produced by alcohol .
But oxymuriate of mercury , muriate of tin , nitrate of silver , and acetate of lead , threw down copious precipitates .
From the effect of these re-agents , it appears to 1Mr .
Brand , that the fluid contains neither gelatine nor albumen ; but when the fluid was evaporated to half its bulk , pellicles began to form on the surface , indicating the presence of a variety of animal matter , which the author considers as mucus or mucilage , but which , under certain circumstances of evaporation , is capable of being converted into a modification of gelatine or albumen .

