" Researches on Acids of the Lactic Series.-No .
I. Synthesis of Acids of the Lactic Series .
" By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , and B. F. DUPPA , Esq. Received February 14 , 1866 .
i(Abstract .
) In the first part of this paper the authors give the details of the synthetical production of numerous acids of the lactic family , which have been briefly described in a series of notes already published in these Proceedings during the years 1863 , 1864 , and 1865 .
In the concluding portion of the present paper , they discuss the theoretical considerations which arise out of these investigations .
They call attention to the existence of a group of elements , to which they give the name oxalyl and the formula ( C O Ho ) , and which exists not only in all acids of the lactic series , but also in nearly every known organic acid .
The isolated molecule of this radical is oxalic acid , { COHo C0 Ho , in proof of which they show that when oxalic ether is acted upon by nascent amyl , it is converted into caproic ether : f C0Eto CBuH22 CB IIT2 COEto+ { CBuH=2 CCOEto .
Oxalic ether .
Amyl .
Caproic ether .
Oxalyl is closely related to cyanogen , the two radicals passing into each other in a host of reactions ; hence the production of cyanides from the ammonium-salts of the fatty acids on the one hand , and the synthesis of acids from certain cyanogen compounds on the other , -a reaction first pointed out by Kolbe and Frankland* , and which has of late yielded such important results in the hands of Maxwell Simpsont and of Kolbe and of Hugo MiillerT .
C N " C0 Hol .
1CN C N " COHo .
Cyanogen .
Oxalyl .
The researches of these chemists prove that the introduction of cyanogen into an organic compound , and its subsequenit transformation into oxalyl , converts that compound into an acid , or , if already an acid , increases its basicity by unity ( for each atom of oxalyl so developed ) , this result being apparently quite independent of the position of the oxalyl in the molecule .
The atom of oxalyl ( as the above molecular formula shows ) may be regarded as methyl ( C H3 ) , in which two atoms of hydrogen have been replaced by one of oxygen , and the third by hydroxyl ( Ho ) .
It may be objected that the group of elements , which is thus invested with radical functions , lacks one of the fundamental characteristics of a radical by its proneness to change ; but this characteristic is exhibited by the commonly received radicals in a very varied degree .
And even methyl itself , which certainly possesses it in the most marked manner , readily permits of its hydrogen being replaced by chlorine or bromine on the one hand , and by sodium on the other .
All compound radicals , the authors remark , are purely conventional groupings of elements intended to simplify the expression of chemical change ; and in this respect they believe the group oxalyl , entering as it does into the constitution of nearly every organic acid , has as valid a claim to a distinct name as the most universally recognized radical .
Its admission renders possible the following very simple expression of the law governing the basicity of nearly all organic acids-an organic acid containing n atoms of oxalyl is n basic .
The authors classify all acids of the lactic series at present known , or which could be obtained by obvious processes , into the following eight divisions : General formula .
C R111 lo 1 .
Normal acids ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
C0 Ho 2 .
Etheric normal acids ... ... ... ... C HR .
C0 Ho 3 .
Secondary acids ... ... ... ... ... O T2Io OH , Ho 4 .
Etheric secondary acids ... ... ... . .
C Ho Gf C:lRHo CR11 Ho 5 .
Normal olefine acids ... ... ... ... . .
( C H2g ) C0 Ho + qCR IHRo 6 .
Etheric normal olefine acids ... ... . .
( C H2 ) , n COHo +f CR2Ho 7 .
Secondary olefine acids ... ... ... . .
( C COHo C0 BRo 8 .
Etheric secondary olefine acids ... ... ( C H2)n CO Ho. A normal acid of the lactic series may be defined as one in which an atom of carbon is united with oxalyl , hydroxyl , and at least one atom of hydrogen .
In the above general formula for these acids R may be either hydrogen , or any alcohol hydrogen .
An etheric normal acid is constituted like a normal acid , but contains a monatomic organic radical , chlorous or basylous , in the place of the hydrogen of the hydroxyl .
A secondary acid is one in which an atom of carbon is united with oxalyl , hydroxyl , and two atoms of an alcohol radical .
An etheric secondary acid stands in the same relation to a secondary , as an etheric normal does to a normal acid .
A normal olefine acid is one in which the atom of carbon united with oxalyl is not united with hydroxyl , and in which the atom of carbon united with hydroxyl is combined with not less than one atom of hydrogen .
In -1this formula R may be either hydrogen or a monatomic alcohol radical , and the olefine , or diatomic radical of these acids , may belong to either the ethylene , or the ethylidene series .
An etheric normal olefine acid differs from a normal olefine acid only in D having the hydrogen of the hydroxyl replaced by an organic radical positive or negative .
A secondary olefine acid is one in which the atom of carbon united with oxalyl is not combined with hydroxyl , and in which the atom of carbon united with hydroxyl is also combined with two monatomic alcohol radicals .
In the above formula R must be a monatomic alcohol radical .
An etheric secondary olefine acid is related to the secondary olefine acids in the same way as the etheric normal olefine acids are related to the normal olefine acids .
The numerous cases of isomerism in the lactic series are next examined and explained ; and the authors then show how the radicals which are employed for the production of the synthesized acids may again be separated , thus affording analytical as well as synthetical proof of the constitution of these acids .
These investigations have conducted the authors to the following conclusions:1 .
All acids of the lactic series are essentially monobasic .
2 .
These acids are of four species , viz. normal , secondary , normal olefine , and secondary olefine acids ; and each of these species has its own etheric series of acids , in which the hydrogen of the hydroxyl contained in the positive or basylous constituent of the acid is replaced by a compound organic radical , either positive or negative .
3 .
The normal acids are derived from oxalic acid by the replacement of one atom of oxygen , either by two atoms of hydrogen , or by one atom of hydrogen and one atom of an alcohol radical .
4 .
The secondary acids are derived from oxalic acid by the replacement of one atom of oxygen by two atoms of monatomic alcohol radicals .
V , 5 The olefine acids are derived from oxalic acid by a like substitution of two monatomic positive radicals for one atom of oxygen , with the addition of a diatomic radical ( C. IT2f ) between the two atoms of oxalyl .
6 .
The acids of the lactic series stand in the very simple relation to the acids of the acetic series first pointed out by Kolbe , viz. that by the replacement , by hydrogen , of the hydroxyl , ethoxyl , &amp;c. contained ill the positive radical of an acid of the lactic series , that acid becomes converted into a member of the acetic series .
7 .
The acids of the lactic series stand in an almost equally simple relation to those of the acrylic series , as is seen on comparing the two following formula:{ C ( C HI ) H Ho C ( C 112 ) IH .
CO Ho CO Ho. Lactic acid .
Acrylic acid .

