]\gt ; S The Cooling and Evaporative Powers of the .
439 the gauge and tunnel and determined by comparison with a Pitot tube , and the difference of level of the liquid in the two arms of the gauge .
In all the observations taken the kata was heated in hot water in a Thermos flask , being kept in the water till the air space at the top was about half full of alcohol .
The same kata , stop-watch , and thermometer , the last graduated to C. , were used throughout the experiments .
In the Royal Society paper cited above it is detailed how a factor is determined for each kata by which the readings can be expressed as cooling powers in millecalories per square centimetre per second .
The value for the kata factor was re-determined before being used in an enclosure of still air jacketed with water , the results obtained being } follows:\mdash ; Mean time of cooling seconds .
Temperature of enclosure C. .
The factor mean time of cooling ) .
The graph obtained from the result of these later experiments and plotted in a similar manner to that obtained from the earlier ones , gives the value of the constant in the formula as .
The figures obtained are given in Table 2 .
The difference in the value of the constant found from the two sets of experiments suggested that the true mean velocity had not been obtained in the earlier work , and on re-considering the problem it appeared probable that if half the area of cross-section of the kata iu place of the whole were subtracted from the sectional area of the tube used in the earlier work a more correct value of the velocity would be given .
Calculating the velocity in this way the value of the constant becomes , which is in close agreement with the value obtained from the later experiments .
We tested the new constant by using it in the velocity of the wind with the kata against the standard anemometers at Kew Observatory , and we are much indebted to Dr. Chree for the facilities gave us to do this .
A succession of kata readings were taken during each period of time and the mean of these taken , while the anemometer records were continuous .
An extra strong gust may thus be missed by the kata , if no reading happened to be taken at that moment .
This possibly was the case in the third series of observations given in Table 1 .
Table 1 shows the values obtained for wind velocities by a 's cup anemometer , a Dines pressure tube , and a kata-thermometer .
The 440 Prof. L. Hill and Mr. ] observations were taken on the roof of one with a steady strong breeze:\mdash ; Table 1 WIN LOCIT ME The cup emolneter is farded as reement with the readings of the cup establish the claim that the kata-thermo ] The Cooling Powers of the Atmosphere .
441 It must be borne in mind that the kata must be shaded from the sun 's rays , direct or reflected , when used as an anemonneter .
The kata shows the effect of eddies and air movements which are too small to affect cup or fan anemometers .
This gives it an especial value the investigation of the ventilation of rooms .
As shown in the paper cited above , there is a limiting velocity vadue beyond which the kata no longer follows the formula .
With respect to the observations detailed in Table 2 , a certain amount variation was found in the values obtained for the constant , the mean value as given by the graph being .
This variation may be due to ( a ) experimental errors of observation , ( b ) errors due to causes the of which could not be determined .
In this latter class would be included errors due to the fact that the kata , being a very sensitive instrument , detects a slight change in temperature or before it is shown by thermometer or pressure gauge .
Errors due to radiant heat , alteration of pressure , to changes in the glass and liquid of instrument must also be included in class ( b ) .
For example , it was found that the temperature of the water in which the kata was heated had a effect on the .
power , greater when the water was at a temperature of C. than when it was C. Water in a Thermos flask at about C. should be used for all kata ELOClTY , METR ES PE R SECOND .
In this connection it may be noted that the first of a series of observations of cooling of the kata is not reliable and should be neglected .
Since errors under class ( a ) would be eliminated by taking the mean of a number of observations ( as was done ) , it would appear that the variation in the constant must be due to undetermined causes .
This is also pointed to by the fact that observations taken on any one day gave constant values .
: The Cooling Evaporative Powers of the Atrnosphere .
443 through the tube at velocities which could be varied at will .
Two gauze screens were fixed in tube to ensure an , equable flow of air , and suitable side openings provided through which ( 1 ) the kata , ( 2 ) a dry bulb , ( 3 ) a wet bulb thermometer , were inserted in order , so that the kata came first and the w.et bulb nearest the fan .
The thermometers were read immediately before the kata was introduced in each observation of cooling rate .
The whole apparatus was placed in a.small chamber , kindly placed at our use by Mr. H. R. Davis , at the works of Siebe , Gorman , Ltd. , a chamber in which we could at will vary the temperature and humidity through fairly wide ranges .
To determine the velocity of the wind we used the reading of the dry kata and our new formula , taking dry kata readings alternately with wet kata readings in each series of determinations .
To determine humidity we used the readings of the and dry bulb thermometers and the tables given by the Royal Meteorological Society .
Our results are given in Table 3 , and are plotted out in Graph II , and the formula which best fits these appears to be where cooling power due to evaporation , vapour tension in mm. Hg .
at C. ( the mean temperature of .
the kata surface ) , vapour tension of the air , and velocity of movement of the air in metres per sec. The full formula for the wet kata is then The method available to us only allows an approximate fit to be obtained , firstly , because the velocity is not measured at the same time as the cooling of the wet kata , but just before and after , and the electric power driving the fan may vary slightly ; secondly , because the relatively sluggish thermometers may not indicate slight in air temperature and humidity , which the excessively sensitive wet kata responds to ; thirdly , because the tables , from which the vapour tension is deduced from wet and dry bulb temperatures , are admittedly only approximately correct ; , because .of errors in time , the wet kata cooling very rapidly .
Error also arise if too thick a cover was used for the wet , and an excess of hot wn tel retained around it .
We avoided any such error by using a muslin finger stalL warming in the Thermos flask , excess of water was removed by gnpping the glove above the bulb and drawing it up tightly , and giving the kata one or two downward shakes .
Using these means , successive readings of the wet kata gave closely concordant results .
We cannot claim that the formula allows us to determine correctly either The Cooling and Powers of the Atmosphere .
445 pressure and for low pressure observations , into which we could go ourselves ) together with our apparatus , chambers kindly put at our use by Mr. R. R. help thus rendered .
onvection aevidence shows trdinary temperatures aressure , conditions remaining constant , ritethe rquare rensity , andDavis , essrs .
Siebe , whom wndebted fhewhere Hheat 1onvection , pressure , onstantSince , heory oonvection s Assuming this to be case if is the total heat lost , that lost by convection , and that lost by radiation , we have , since ( as proved in the Royal Society paper already cited ) , ( ii ) also from ( i ) or ; ( iv ) !
: substituting for in ( iv ) from ( ii ) , , ( vi ) where is the total heat lost at a pressure Now the loss of heat by radiation will be unaltered by changes of pressure , therefore if is the total heat lost at a pressure being the loss due to convection , then , ( vii ) where is the heat lost by radiation at a pressure ; hence substituting in ( vii ) for from ( vi ) , .
The Cooling and Evaporative Powers of the Atmosphere .
447 To test the accuracy of this formula , expsriments were carried out in still air under conditions of increased and diminished pressure .
In the former case the value of the pressure was obtained by a reading in pounds , and was only approximate ; in the case of diminished pressure a mercury was used reading to tenths of a centimetre .
The results obtained are shown in the Table given below .
To allow for the variation of temperature which took place , each of the cooling powers is reduced } cooling power which it would have been if the temperature had been C. , this being the temperature at which the normal pressure ( 764 mm. or l5 ) reading was taken ; the formula used to obtain being The column ( calculated ) yives the values obtained by equation ( viii ) being found experimentally to be at temperature and pressure mm. The agreement between the experimental and calculated values are close , and this agreement seems to confirm the experimental observation that half the rate of heat loss at ordinary temperature is due to radiation .
Cooling of Kata in Compressed and Barefied Air .
VOL XC.\mdash ; B.

