]\gt ; 150 Variation of Surface Energy with Temperature .
[ Mar. 23 , III .
" " On the Variation of Surface Energy with Temperature .
' By WILLIAM RAMSAy , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and JOHN SHIELDS , B.Sc. , Ph. D. Received March 14 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) It is shown that a close analogy exists between the equation for gases , and an equation expressing the relation of surface energy to temperature , where is surface tellsion ; , surface ; , a constant ; and , temperature measured downwa , rds from a point about below the critical point of the fluid .
As the origin of in the gaseous equation is where , so the origiu of should be where .
Correcting the above equation so that shall represent the number of degrees measured downwards from the critical point , the equation becomes .
But even this equation does not express the whole truth .
For at temperatures less than below the critical temperature , the relation between surface energy and temperature is not a rectilinear one ; a correction is therefore introduced in the form of a second term , which becomes insignificant temperatures more than or ; it is .
The liquids examined were : ether , methyl formate , ethyl acetate , carbon tetrachloride , benzene , chlorobenzene , acetic acid , and methyl and ethyl alcohols ; in fact , the only ones for which data are available .
For , in order to calculate from the rise in a capillary tube , it is necessary to know the density of the orthobaric liquid and gas ; amd reliable data exist only for these liquids , and for a few others which resemble them closely , e.g , , fiuol'obenzene , bromobenzene , \amp ; c. Also to calculate , i.e. , molecular sul.face , it is necessal.y to know the molecular volume of the liquid , and to aise it to the power Hence , or molecular SUl'face ; i.e. , it is possible to compare diiferent liquids on the surfaces of which equal numbers of molecules lie .
Measurements were made at , the boiling point of ni oxide under atmospheric prsssure , with ether , methyl formate , acetate , and the two alcohols ; the other substances are solid at that low 1893 .
] Absolute Thermal Conductivities of Copp and Iron .
151 temperature .
These observations confirmed the rectilinear relation with the first three ; but in the case of the two alcohols , evidence was obtained of molecular association , as also with acetic acid .
It is posable to calculate the amount of association at any temperature in such cases .
For , assuming the constancy of for the molecular surface of the " " normal\ldquo ; liquids , the equation where is the differeutial coefficient of an associating liquid , and is the molecular aggregation , gives the number of simple molecuJes which have united to form a compound at the temperature chosen .
For the alcohols at , and for acetic acid at , the associatiou of molecules approximates to , and We thus a method by which it is possible to ascertain the molecular complexity of undiluted liquids .
The results with the alcohols are shown to agree within reasonable limits with those obtained from strong solutions by Raoulb 's method .
It is incidentally shown in the course of the paper that there is no angle of contact between liquid and glass , when the liquid surface is in contact only its own vapour .
measurements of capillarity give inconstant , and probably ccurate , results , for it is not the surface tension of the liquid which is measured , but that of a solution of air in the surface film of the The paper contains tables and curves exemplifying and illustrating the statem ents given .
IV .
" " The Absolute Thermal Conductivities of Copper and \ldquo ; By R. WALLACE STEWART , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Physics , University College , Bangor .
icated by LORD LVIN , P.B.S. Received March 2 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) The experiments descril ) in the paper were undertaken with the object of deteI:mining the theoretical conductivity at different temperatures of iron , and , in , of pure electrolytically deposited copper .
The method adopted was that due to Forbes , with two modifications .
The thermo-electric method of determining temperature was employed .
The thermo-electric couple used was one German silver and iron , giving , between C. and 20 C. , a uniform deflection on the galvanomeber scale of about four divisions for a difference of one degl.ee .
centigrade between the temperatul.es of its jullctions .

