XXVII .
An account of the effect of Mercurial Vapours on the Crew of His Majesty 's Ship Triumph , in the year 1810 .
By WILLIAM BURNETT , M. D. one of the Medical Commissioners of the Navy , formerly Physician and Inspector of Hospitals to the Mediterranean Fleet .
Communicated by MATTHEW BAILLIE , M.D. F.R.S. Read June 19 , 1823 .
IT has long been known , that in the vacuum of the barometer , mercury rises in a vaporous state at the usual temperature of this climate , and that persons employed in the mines from whence this metal is procured , as well as those who are employed in gilding and plating , have suffered paralytic and other constitutional affections , from inhaling the air saturated with mercurial vapours : had any doubt remained of mercury existing in the state alluded to , it would be effectually removed by the experiments made by Mr. FARADAY , detailed in the twentieth number of the Journal of Science , &amp;c. An unprecedented event , which occurred in one of His Majesty 's ships of the line , at Cadiz , in the year 181o , a short time before I took upon me the charge of the Medical Department of the Mediterranean Fleet , has afforded me an opportunity of illustrating this subject on a very extensive scale , the details of which may not , perhaps , be uninteresting to the Royal Society .
The Triumph , of seventy-four guns , arrived in the harbour of Cadiz in the month of February , 181 o , and in the following March a Spanish vessel , laden with quicksilver for the mines in South America , having been driven on shore in a gale of wind and wrecked under the batteries , then in possession of the French , the boats of this ship were sent to her assistance , by which means , during many successive nights , about one hundred and thirty tons of the quicksilver were saved and carried on board the Triumph , where the boxes containing it were principally stowed in the bread-room .
The mercury , it appears , was first confined in bladders , the bladders in small barrels , and the barrels in boxes .
The heat of the weather was at this time considerable , and the bladders , having been wetted in the removal from the wreck , soon rotted , and the mercury , to the amount of several tons , was speedily diffused through the ship , mixing with the bread , and more or less with the other provisions .
The effect of this accident was soon seen , by a great number of the ship 's crew , as well as several of the officers , being severely affected with ptyalism , the Surgeon and Purser being amongst the first and most severely affected , by the mercury 's flowing constantly into their cabins from the bread-room ; their cabins being , as .
is usual , on the orlop deck , separated from this store by partitions of wood .
In the space of three weeks from the mercury 's being received on board , two hundred men were afflicted with ptyalism , ulcerations of the mouth , partial paralysis in many instances , and bowel complaints .
These men were removed into transports , where those more slightly affected soon got well ; but fresh cases occurring daily , Rear Admiral PICKMORE , then in command of the squadron , ordered an inspection to be made by the Surgeons thereof , and in consequence of their report , sent the Triumph to Gibraltar to remove the provisions , and purify the ship by ablution , the affected men being sent to the Naval Hospital ; which order was strictly attended to ; the provisions , stores , and likewise the shingle ballast , being removed on shore .
Notwithstanding the removal of the provisions , &amp;c. and afterwards frequent ablution , on re-stowing the hold , every man so employed , as well as those in the steward 's room , were attacked with ptyalism ; and during the ship 's passage , and on her return to Cadiz , the fresh attacks were daily and numerous till the 1 th of June , when the Triumph sailed for England .
After their departure from Cadiz they experienced fresh breezes from the N. E. ; and the men being kept constantly on deck , the ship aired night and day by windsails , the lower-deck ports allowed to remain open at all times , when it could be done with safety , allowing no one to sleep on the orlop deck , and none affected with ptyalism on the lower deck , a very sensible decrease in the number daily attacked soon became apparent ; but nevertheless , many of those already affected became worse , and they were under the necessity of removing twenty seamen and the same number of marines , with two serjeants and two corporals , to a sloop of war and the transports in company .
On their arrival in Cawsand Bay , near Plymouth , on the 5th of July , not one remained on the list for ptyalism .
The effects of the mercurial atmosphere was not confined to the officers and ship 's company ; almost all the stock , consisting of sheep , pigs , goats , and poultry , died from it ; mice , cats , a dog , and even a canary bird , shared the same fate , though the food of the latter was kept in a bottle closely corked up .
The Surgeon ( Mr. PLOWMAN ) informed me , in conversation , that he had seen mice come into the ward-room , leap up to some height , and fall dead on the deck .
The Triumph , previous to this event , had suffered considerably , by having a number of her men attacked with malignant ulcer , which at one time prevailed to a considerable extent in our ships , both at home and abroad ; and in many of the men who had so suffered , the ulcers , which had long been completely healed , without even an erasure of the skin , broke out again , and soon put on a gangrenous appearance .
The vapour was very deleterious to those having any tendency to pulmonic affections : three men died of pthisis pulmonalis , who had never complained , or been in the list before they were saturated with the mercury ; and one man who had suffered from pneumonia , but was perfectly cured , and another who had not had any pulmonic complaint before , were left behind at Gibraltar , labouring under confirmed pthisis .
Two only out of so large a number affected died from ptyalism , gangrene having taken place in their cheeks and tongue : they had previously lost all their teeth .
In the case of a woman , who was confined to bed in the cockpit with a fractured limb , not only were all the teeth lost , but many exfoliations also took place from the upper and lower jaws .
The mercury showed its effects upon the ship herself , by the decks being covered with a black powder ; but quicksilver was not discovered at any time in this powder in a native or globular state , though the brass cocks of the boilers , and the copper bolts of the ship , were covered with the metal , the last to some extent within the wood ; a gold watch , gold and silver money kept in a drawer , and likewise some of the iron-work of the ship which had been kept bright , evidently showed the influence of the prevailing atmosphere , being in some places covered with quicksilver .
In a communication with which Mr. PLOWMAN , Surgeon of the Triumph , has obliged me , he states , that those who messed and slept on the orlop and lower decks , with the exception of the midshipmen , suffered equally , while those on the main or upper deck were not so severely affected : the men who lived and slept under the forecastle escaped with a slight affection of the gums .
The only reasons which can be assigned for the partial escape of the midshipmen , are , that the windsails were kept always in action , and that these Gentle .
men were almost constantly on deck , or were more frequently employed on service out of the ship , in proportion to their numbers , than the men .
Various opinions were entertained of the manner in which the systems of the sufferers were brought under the influence of the mercury .
By some , it was supposed to have originated from the use of the bread and other provisions , with which the mercury had mixed itself ; and to such an extent was this opinion carried , that I find , by reference to official documents in the Victualling office , seven thousand nine hundred and forty pounds of biscuit were condemned as unserviceable from having quicksilver mixed with it .
By others , amongst whom was Mr. PLOWMAN , the Surgeon , it was considered to have arisen from inhaling the mercurialized atmosphere ; and from the preceding details , I think there cannot remain a doubt that this opinion was the true one .
It is well known that mercury , in its native state , has dften been administered in very large doses , in cases of obstinate constipation , without producing any specific effect on the system , merely removing the affection by its specific gravity .
I have , however , reason to believe , from the accounts of ORFILA , and others , that if the mercury was to be retained in the intestines for some time , and thus subjected to the action of the contents of the stomach and bowels , a part might become oxydated , and being conveyed into the system by means of the absorbents , would there show its specific effects .
But after the removal of the provisions , &amp;c. at Gibraltar , many fresh cases occurred , and many relapses amongst those who had been cured out of the ship , took place on their return to duty on board , which effectually destroys the probability of this having been the cause of the succeeding ptyalism , and other morbid affections .
It only remains for me to offer my opinion , of the manner in which the system became saturated by the mercury , and this I conceive to have been effected by inhaling the mercurial vapours ; the quicksilver being then in the most perfect state of division , was readily taken up by the absorbents of the lungs , and soon showed its influence on the system generally .
This idea is very much strengthened by the effect which was produced on the animals on board , already mentioned , as well as by the circumstance of a great number of men being attacked after the ship was cleared at Gibraltar , and till she arrived in a more northern latitude .
407 It may be considered out of place here , to give any detail of the curative means employed , I shall therefore only briefly state that sulphur , given in large quantities internally , produced no alleviation of the symptoms ; on the contrary , it greatly augmented the bowel complaints , with which many of the men were affected , and brought on a most severe tenesmus ; consequently , it was laid aside ; applied externally , it was of no use .
The only plan which produced effectual relief was removal from the ship , with the frequent use of small doses of neutral salts and detergent gargles .
W. BURNETF .

