[ H7 ] III .
Description of the Brain of Mr. Charles Babbage , F.R.S ( Hunterian Museum , Royal College of Surgeons .
) By Sir Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S. ( Received December 14 , 1907 , \#151 ; Read March 12 , 1908 .
) [ Plates 9-13 .
] The brain of the distinguished mathematician , Mr. Charles Babbage , was under special instruction removed by Sir Thomas Smith and placed in the care of the Hunterian Trustees , at whose request the following report on the specimen has been prepared .
The whole brain is small , shrunk by prolonged immersion ( 36 years ) in alcohol , which renders the outlines of the sulci difficult to photograph , but it has been beautifully preserved in the Hunterian Museum .
Its examination was greatly facilitated by the kind assistance and advice of the late Professor Charles Stewart , F.B.S. , Curator of the Hunterian Museum , Boyal College of Surgeons of England .
Adopting the principles laid down by Professor G. Retzius ( see No. 6 ) , the present account will consist in a systematic description of the sulci and gyri , with hut a few remarks on any apparent correlation between the cerebral morphology and Mr. Babbage 's psychical characteristics .
At the same time , attention may properly be here drawn to the fact that the important neurological method of collecting systematic records of the brains of distinguished men , which was commenced in this country by the late Mr. John Marshall , F.R.S. , requires the support of the learned Societies for its adequate execution .
Until such organised and combined action has resulted in the collection of a large number of facts , it is impossible to make deductions of scientific value on the relation between special mental characteristics and cerebral development .
Biographical Notice.* Charles Babbage was born on December 26 , 1791 , and died on October 18 , 1871 .
His family had been settled in Devonshire for several centuries , but his * Many of the facts of Mr. Babbage 's life , as well as a list of his scientific papers , are stated in his autobiographical memoir , entitled ' Passages from the Life of a Philosopher , ' 1864 .
I am also greatly indebted to Dr. Dudley Buxton ( whose father , Mr. Wilmot Buxton , an intimate friend and close companion of Mr. Babbage , wrote a manuscript life of the mathematician ) , for the opportunity of reading this " Life " and for his own personal recollections .
Similarly , Sir Thomas Smith , Bart. , has kindly informed me from his personal knowledge on many important points , and has substantiated the accuracy of the available records of Mr. Babbage 's life .
( 264 .
) 21.7.08 .
own branch almost became extinct at his death , for he states that in 1864 no collateral relative of his name belonging to the four previous generations was then alive .
He entered Trinity College , Cambridge , moving later to Peterhouse , and took his degree at 22 years of age , acquiring a high reputation as a mathematician .
Two years later he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society , having already accomplished noteworthy research in mathematics .
His earlier work , viz. , the examination of the systems of notation of Newton and Leibniz , led him , even before his graduation , to formulate his first conceptions of computing by machinery .
To the accomplishment of this object he devoted the major part of his life and private fortune , and , with some financial assistance from the Government , began the construction of an engine for the calculation of tables by the method of differences .
Unfortunately , only a small portion of this machine was completed and actually employed in a Government department , when he became involved in complex mathematical speculations for the design and construction of an analytical engine .
As a natural consequence , little was completed or finally accomplished of either machine .
1 he method , nevertheless , was successfully adopted in Sweden .
There is no doubt that Mr. Babbage was a very profound thinker , that his mentation carried with it complete fixation of attention ( often to the exclusion of THE BRAIN OF MR. CHARLES BABBAGE .
domestic duties ) , and that he was able to resolve complex conditions by an unusual power of forming wide concepts .
His rapidity of formation of percepts was considerable , and led him to engage in a very extensive range of subjects beyond those which ( e.g. , insurance , taxation , etc. ) appropriately admitted of treatment by mathematical methods .
His special senses were very active .
His appreciation of both colour and music was highly cultivated .
As regards the efferent side of the function of the cortex cerebri , he was right-handed and a skilled worker with tools .
His speech function was highly developed , both on its afferent and efferent sides .
At the date of his death he was a Member of all the principal Scientific Societies in the United Kingdom , and was an Honorary or Corresponding Member of the leading European Academies and Imperial Institutes of Science .
He died , aged 80 years , of renal inadequacy , secondary to cystitis .
As will be seen on reference to the plates , the brain exhibits no sign of senile wasting of gyri nor patches of softening from atheroma .
( The blood vessels and membranes have all been removed .
) At the same time it is to be remembered that the whole organ has uniformly shrunk and has lost about one-third of its weight ; thus any moderate atrophic widening of the sulci may have been obliterated .
The Left Cerebral Hemisphere .
( Plates 9-11 and 13 .
) Lobus frontalis .
This is remarkably well and regularly developed , \#151 ; thus in it the typical three horizontal frontal sulci can be readily differentiated and described .
Sulcus prcecentralis superior.\#151 ; Short , directed almost parallel to the mesial plane .
Opposite the junction of its middle and posterior thirds is a deep sulcus inflectalis .
Sulcus frontalis superior.\#151 ; Begins ( posteriorly ) 3'5 cm .
from the mesial plane and just in front of the upper end of the sulcus praecentralis inferior , from which it is separated by a narrow ( 4 mm. ) gyrus connecting the superior and middle frontal gyri .
The sulcus is completely divided into three portions by annectent gyri which are completely exposed on the surface .
The first of these is midway between the posterior end of the sulcus and the frontal pole of the hemisphere .
The second bridging gyrus is double by reason of the development of a secondary sulcus at right angles to the margin of the hemisphere .
The relation of the end of the sulcus frontalis superior to the frontal pole is given below in special detail ; it approaches the margin of the hemisphere until it is separated from the mesiil plane by a gyrus only 12 to 14 mm. broad .
Sulcus frontalis medius.\#151 ; Begins by a wide T-shaped origin one-third of the distance between the sulcus prsecentralis inferior and the frontal pole .
It is uninterrupted throughout and ends by a wide-angled bifurcation above the pole .
Sulcus frontalis inferior.\#151 ; Begins by a deep notch in the anterior wall of the sulcus prsecentralis inferior , bridged at bottom by a narrow ( 3 mm. ) gyrus .
In front the sulcus ends close to the anterior extremity of the sulcus medius .
A stellate secondary sulcus occupies the broadened end of the third frontal gyrus .
Sulcus prcecentralisinferior.\#151 ; Commences below by a deep ( bridged , of course ) notch in the opercular margin and ends opposite the hinder end of the sulcus frontalis superior .
Its anterior , or horizontal , limb , ramus horizontalis , is short and scarcely exceeds more than the breadth of the gyrus frontalis medialis it invades .
Sulcus diagonalis.\#151 ; This sulcus is deep and joins with the ramus anterior of the Sylvian fissure in cutting the opercular margin .
Sulcus subcentralis anterior.\#151 ; This is a powerfully developed sulcus vertically dividing the lower third of the gyrus centralis anterior , slightly notching the anterior margin of the sulcus centralis Rolandi .
Sulcus centralis Rolandi.\#151 ; The fissure* of Rolando of the left hemisphere is a boldly drawn sulcus with a very sharply defined genu inferior , the portion of the sulcus below this being directed so far backwards as to make anteriorly an angle of 82 ' with the sulcus Sylvii .
Consequently the direction of the whole left fissure as located by its extremities is a line almost exactly at right angles to the mesial plane , viz. 88 ' .
When the direction of the line forming the extremities of the sulcus is taken as representing that of the sulcus as a whole , this constitutes one of the most brachy-cephalic central sulci I have seen .
The angle which the line of direction from the upper end of the sulcus to the inferior genu makes with the mesial plane is 70 ' .
The remarkable development of the lower end of the gyrus frontalis ascendens causes this condition of the sulcus centralis .
The gyrus centralis anterior thus outlined by the sulci described is particularly massive , broad and simple in outline , contrasting notably with that of the right hemisphere , vide infra , p. 125 .
Sulcus infectalis.\#151 ; In this , the left hemisphere , the sulcus is a deep incisure of the margin , making an angle anteriorly with the mesial plane of 50 ' and almost reaching the sulcus prsecentralis superior .
Lobus parietalis .
Sulcus parietalis superior.\#151 ; This sulcus , by reason of a complete bridging gyrus , is entirely separate from the sulcus intraparietalis .
It begins horizontally behind the genu inferior of the Rolandic fissure , courses upwards parallel to the latter and just stops short of notching the margin of the hemisphere .
Sulcus interparietalis.\#151 ; In accord with the general complexity of the occipitotemporal region the interparietal sulcus extends from the posterior border of the * Throughout this paper the fissures and sulci will not be arbitrarily divided , but will be all referred to as " sulci .
" the brain or Mr. Charles babbage .
gyrus centralis posterior to the anterior border of the gyrus occipitalis primus vel medialis , i.e. , to the gyrus separating it from the posterior limit of the calcarine sulcus .
Superficially , therefore , it corresponds to just half the total length of the hemisphere .
It takes the usual course , i.e. , mesialwards , until just before reaching the sulcus parieto-occipitalis ( pars externus ) , when it runs parallel to the sagittal plane until opposite the ( transverse ) plane of the centre of the horizontal limb of the sulcus calcarinus , when it turns downwards .
Owing to the fact that all its parts , i.e. , sulcus postcentralis inferior , ramus horizontalis and ramus occipitalis , are all confluent , there is no definite sulcus transversus present , and the sulcus is not bridged at any point , at least by any gyrus reaching up to 10 mm. of the surface .
Ramus mesialis.\#151 ; This is present as a short sulcus terminating by a T-shaped end on the margin .
Sulcus retrocentralis superior.\#151 ; This subordinate sulcus subdivides the parietal lobule into an anterior and posterior half .
Sulcus parieto-occipitalis .
( a ) Pars externus.\#151 ; The external portion of this important fissure is a short deep sulcus , cutting the margin of the hemisphere very deeply at an angle of 72 ' with the mesial plane .
( b ) Pars interims.\#151 ; The inner portion is a deep vertical cleft ( occipitalis ) of the mesial face of the hemisphere which joins below with the calcarine fissure .
On separating its lips , the usual tri-radiate secondary sulcus is seen on the anterior wall .
Sulcus retrocentralis inferior.\#151 ; This is a tri-radiate sulcus subdividing the inferior parietal lobule .
Its posterior extremity coincides with the posterior end of the fissure of Sylvius by reason of an early fusion of the superior temporal and supramarginal gyri .
Sulcus subcentralis posterior.\#151 ; This is present as a short unbranched sulcus , cutting the upper margin of the Sylvian fissure .
Sulcus Sylvii.\#151 ; In general the fissure of Sylvius does not at first sight appear abnormal , but , as a matter of fact , it is notably shortened posteriorly by the annectation just mentioned .
( a ) Ramus horizontalis anterior.\#151 ; This arises by a common stem with the ramus ascendens , and is a short cleft separating the frontal operculum from the orbital lobe .
( b ) Ramus anterior ascendens.\#151 ; This , the formerly termed anterior limb of the fissure , is also short , and runs vertically upwards , parallel to and only 8 mm. separated from the sulcus prsecentralis inferior .
( c ) Ramus posterior ascendens et descendens.\#151 ; This important part of the fissure barely occupies 40 ( 39'3 ) per cent , of the total length of the hemisphere owing to the degree ot gyrus development of the inferior parietal and occipito-temporal region .
VOL. CC.---B .
R 1 pz SIR VICTOR HORSLEY : DESCRIPTION OF On separating its lips the relations of the insula are seen to be normal , as follows : Lobus insularis ( Reilji ) .
Sulcus circularisvel limitcms insulce.(a ) \#151 ; This part of the sulcus is deep , and is not joined by the secondary sulci of the insula infra ) .
( h ) Pars frontalis.\#151 ; The frontal part of the sulcus bordering the insula lies at the bottom of the stem of the sulcus Sylvii , and is itself short but deep .
( c ) Pars temporalis.\#151 ; The temporal part of the circular sulcus presents the normal gradual widening anteriorly with the sharp bend inwards .
The sulci separating the gyri Andre\#174 ; Retzii nowhere cut into the sulcus circularis .
Sulci insulaves(Reilii ) .
( a ) Sulcus centralis insula ?
( Guldberg).\#151 ; This is a wellmarked sulcus dividing the insula into an anterior three-fifths , anterior vel frontalis , and a posterior two-fifths , Inbul posterior Its direction is but a few degrees ( 12 ' ) divergent from that of the ramus horizontalis posterior of the sulcus Sylvii , and , consequently , its principal axis , viewed from above , makes an angle anteriorly with the mesial plane of approximately 57 ' .
( b ) Sulci anterioresinsulce.\#151 ; The triangular mass of cortex in front of the sulcus centralis insulae is divided into three equal parts by two sulci , which run at right angles to the mesial plane and are shallow .
( c ) Sulcus posterior.\#151 ; The lobulus posterior of the insula is divided into two gyri by a deep sulcus ( sulcus posterior insulae ) , which runs parallel to the sulcus centralis .
It ends dorsally and ventrally short of the sulcus circularis vel limitans .
( For comparison of the two insulae , see p. 12G .
) Lobus temporalis .
This lobe is on the left side , notably subdivided at the anterior confluence of the temporal gyri .
As the brain lets considerably flattened in the alcohol , it is not possible to estimate the relative depth of the lobe , but it is complexly and well developed .
Sulcitransversi ( Retzius).\#151 ; On the upper ( Sylvian ) aspect of the left temporal lobe are three sulci transversi posteriorly to the angle of the sulcus circularis vel limitans , q.v.In front of this angle , i.e. , concentric with the sulcus circularis and the polar margin of the lobe , is a deep sulcus semicircularis .
( This sidcus is also described under the name sulcus transversus anterior .
) Sulcus temporalis superior ( parallel sulcus).\#151 ; This sulcus has a long course posteriorly extending at right angles to the mesial plane to 1*5 cm .
distance from the sulcus intraparietalis .
Anteriorly it is stopped in the vertical plane of the lower end of the sulcus prsecentralis inferior by a powerful bridging gyrus on the surface of which is a subordinate sulcus .
Beyond this bridging gyrus there is a large sulcus semicircularis coursing parallel to the polar and upper margin of the lobe .
THE BRAIN OF MR. CHARLES BABBAGE .
Sulcus temporalis inferior.\#151 ; This sulcus begins posteriorly in the same vertical plane as the ramus horizontalis of* the fissure of Sylvius , and ends in a deeply-cut T-shaped extremity , which lies transversely to the long axis of the lobe .
Sulcus temporalis medius.\#151 ; This sulcus cuts the temporal margin of the hemisphere very deeply , and extends equally on the outer and lower surfaces of the lobe .
Thus above it marks off a very wide posterior limb of the gyrus angularis , and approaches superficially to within 1*3 cm .
of the sulcus intraparietalis ( ramus occipitalis ) .
Tentorially it runs towards the sulcus ectorhinalis , from which it is separated by the hook-like continuation of the sulcus Sulcus collateralis.\#151 ; This is widely spread , by reason of the great tentorial breadth of the lobe .
The sulcus begins posteriorly by a wide T-shaped sulcus extending along the whole margin of the gyrus occipitalis inferior .
From the centre of this sulcus , which might be termed ( for this brain ) the sulcus occipitalis lateralis vel tentorial is , the collateral sulcus runs forwards , receives a large branch subdividing the gyrus lingualis , then borders the limbic lobe , and turns round to form its liook-like portion in the transverse plane of the interpeduncular space .
Lobus occipitalis .
The tip of the left occipital lobe has unfortunately been lacerated , but the arrangement of the sulci is easy to discern .
There are two lateral sulci distinguishable , as well as one paramedian , in addition to which the ramus occipitalis of the intraparietal sulcus cuts very deeply and extensively into the lobe , reaching superficially close to the polar margin .
Sulcus paramesialis.\#151 ; This is a subordinate sulcus , cutting the margin of the hemisphere into the lobus cuneus , and externally to the middle of the gyrus occipitalis superior .
Sulcus inlrastriutuslateralis ( vel sulcus occipitalis superior).\#151 ; This , which is absolutely a subordinate sulcus , nevertheless cuts deeply the lower half of the gyrus occipitalis superior , and extending posteriorly , is only separated from the centre of the T-shaped extremity of the sulcus calcarinus by a narrow gyrus 0'3 centim. wide .
Sulcus lunatus.\#151 ; This sulcus , though also subordinate in size , is the sulcus lunatus occipitalis of Elliot Smith .
Superficially it appears to be the T-shaped end of the ramus occipitalis of the sulcus intraparietalis , but it is separated therefrom by a gyrus .
Sulcus calcarinus .
( a ) Ramus posterior ( sulcus intrastriatus mesialis ( retro-calcarinus)).\#151 ; The posterior limb of the sulcus is nearly subdivided by the gyrus cuneo-lingualis posterior becoming superficial .
The lower lip is increased by a subordinate sulcus dividing the gyrus lingualis deeply .
( b ) Ramus anterior ( vel sulcus calcarinus proprius).\#151 ; This limb simply divides the gyrus lingualis from the lobus limbicus .
Superficies mesialis .
Sulcus cimjuli ( vel calloso-marginalis).\#151 ; This sulcus , which follows the usual course , begins ( owing to high development of the frontal lobe ) in the vertical plane of the hindermost limit of the rostrum , which is sharper and more recurved than usual .
It is uninterrupted throughout .
Concentric withi it are numerous parallel subordinate sulci , subdividing not only the gyrus marginalis but also the lobus limbicus .
It terminates posteriorly in a very marked Sulcus rostralis.\#151 ; As in the opposite hemisphere , the rostral sulci , both primary and secondary , are extremely well developed and subdivide the median aspect of the fronto-orbital lobe so as to emphasise the generally high type of development of this region .
Polus frontalis.\#151 ; The frontal pole of the left hemisphere is interesting by reason of the subdivision of the gyri and their annectent developments .
Part of it , namely the orbital margin , is cut by a concentric sulcus lying parallel to the T-shaped end of the sulcus frontalis medius , namely the sulcus Lobus orbitalis.\#151 ; In accord with the general convolutional complex arrangement of this brain the lobus orbitalis , as the orbital portion of the frontal lobe may justly be termed , is subdivided by five sulci , all of which are present in the specimen , viz. :\#151 ; Sulcus orbitalis transversus anterior , Sulcus orbitalis transversus posterior , Sulcus orbitalis interims , Sulcus orbitalis externus , Sulcus olfactorius , but which do not require detailed description .
Lobus limbicus.\#151 ; The limbic lobe presents a simple appearance .
The rhinencephalon is narrow and rather flattened .
It presents a sharply marked olfactory tubercle .
Tjobus parietalis .
Prcccuncus ( Lobulus quadratus).\#151 ; The quadrate lobule or prsecuneus is well marked and its surface notably subdivided .
Sulcus subparietalis.\#151 ; The prcecuneus exhibits above a well-marked sulcus subparietalis .
Sulciprcecunei.\#151 ; The rest of the lobe presents two vertical sulci prsecunei .
Eight Cerebral Hemisphere .
( Plates 9 , 11 , 12 , and 13 .
) The right cerebral hemisphere is very richly convoluted , especially in the development of the frontal and occipito-temporal regions .
Lobus frontalis .
Sulcus frontalis superior.\#151 ; This sulcus begins posteriorly in apparent fusion with the ramus verticalis of the sulcus prmcentralis superior , from which it is really separated by a buried gyrus .
It runs forwards parallel to the mesial plane until the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the lobe , when it turns inwards and ends 1 cm .
from the mesial surface .
Here it is completely interrupted by a double bridging gyrus , as on the left side , but more fully developed by reason of a deeply invading transverse marginal sulcus , THE BRAIN OF MR , CHARLES BABBAGE .
which by branching on the external surface causes such width of cortical folding as to abolish all further continuation of the line of the sulcus frontalis superior .
Sulci paramesiales.\#151 ; Between the sulcus and the mesial plane are three sulci paramesiales .
Sulcus frontalis medius.\#151 ; The commencement of this sulcus is posteriorly subdivided by a narrow gyrus , so that a subordinate but deep sulcus which breaks up the posterior third of the gyrus frontalis secundus ( medius , pars superior ) is really the line of origin of the whole sulcus .
The sulcus frontalis medius courses forwards and inwards and terminates at the frontal pole , the outer half of its T-shaped end being practically absent .
Conse-quently , the medial half apparently prolongs the sulcus to 0'5 cm .
from the mesial plane .
Sulcus frontalis inferior.\#151 ; A fusion similar to that of the sulcus prgecentralis superior occurs between the sulcus prgecentralis inferior and the sulcus frontalis inferior .
This latter is a simple horizontal sulcus terminating at the orbital margin , where it is arrested by a very narrow gyrus dividing it from the sulcus diagonalis .
Polus frontalis.\#151 ; In the right hemisphere the frontal pole is rather simpler than on the left side , there being no thoroughly marked concentric horizontal sulcus behind the orbital margin , but there is a lateral subdivision of the sulcus orbitalis interims which affords the parallel to the left side .
Sidcus orbitalis.\#151 ; This sulcus presents the characteristic H-figure , and both the parts , namely , the sulcus orbitalis externus and interims , are long and branching .
Sulcus olfactorius.\#151 ; This is a simple groove .
Sulcus marginalis.\#151 ; This sulcus is remarkably symmetrical with its homologue of the opposite side .
The direction of its two extremities joined makes an angle of about 40 ' with the mesial plane .
The two sulci together make an angle anteriorly of exactly 90 ' .
The sulcus cuts the gyrus marginalis very deeply .
Sulcus prcecentralis superior.\#151 ; This sulcus is exceptionally developed .
Its ramus verticalis extends over 50 per cent , of the breadth of the lobe .
Its ramus horizontalis is very short and parallel to the commencement of the sulcus frontalis superior , Sulcus prcecenti'alis inferior.\#151 ; This sulcus , although vertically presenting a usual arrangement and symmetrical with that of the left side , occupies at its lower extremity the site of the sulcus subcentralis anterior , which , therefore , is represented by such part of the sulcus prgecentralis .
In front of this lies a true sulcus diagonalis .
The lower end of the gyrus centralis anterior is only slightly dimpled .
Sulcus diagonalis.\#151 ; In this , the right hemisphere , the sulcus diagonalis is a strongly-marked independent sulcus .
It notches the edge of the operculum superficially .
Sulcus centralis.\#151 ; The Bolandic sulcus of the right hemisphere is not divided so remarkably by change of direction of its two parts as in the left hemisphere .
Thus , the line joining its two ends makes an angle of 76 ' with the mesial plane .
This SIR VICTOR HORSLEY : DESCRIPTION OF difference is owing to the fact that the genua are not so sharply marked , and the direction of the inferior half of the sulcus is vertical and not backwards as on the left side .
The gyrus centralis anterior ( ascending frontal ) is , consequently , much narrower than on the left side .
Sulcus Sylvii.\#151 ; This important fissure is remarkably symmetrical with that of the left hemisphere .
It extends by its ramus posterior somewhat further posteriorly , i.e. , to the normal central plane of the gyrus supra-margiualis , but otherwise requires no special description .
Lobus insularis ( Reilii ) .
Sulcus limitans insulce Reilii.\#151 ; This sulcus , though shallower , has the same typical arrangement as in the left hemisphere , and it is not cut into by any of the neighbouring sulci , whether insular or opercular .
Sulcus centralis insulce.\#151 ; This deep sulcus runs at an angle anteriorly of about 15 ' with the ramus posterior of the Sylvian fissure .
It divides the insula precisely as on the left side , and similarly the pars frontalis and parietalis insulae are subdivided by three shallow sulci and one deep sulcus respectively .
The right insula is less developed than the left , and the gyri are flatter and simpler .
This is in accord with the general observations of Waldschmidt ( see No. 10 ) , especially as Mr. Babbage was right-handed .
Lobus parietalis .
The complexity of the subdivision of the occipito-temporal and lower parietal region , which was notable in the left hemisphere , is also present to a marked degree in the right .
This anatomical evidence of the high status of this brain is in harmony with the view of Cunningham and others ( see No. 1 ) .
Sulcus post-centralis inferior vel Sulcus parietalis \#151 ; This very deep sulcus subdivides the foot of* the gyrus centralis posterior so as to leave but a small portion of cortex in front and above .
It is shortened by the fact that the sulcus intraparietalis begins low down .
Sulcus post-centralis superior is an irregular and obliquely placed sulcus , its general direction making an angle of 60 ' with the upper third of the sulcus centralis .
Hence , it marks off a broad piece of the gyrus parietalis .
Sulcus inter parietalis.\#151 ; This sulcus begins by a large and deep H-shaped origin , and follows a course quite similar to that of the left side , but ends by a T-shaped extremity just behind the sulcus parieto-occipitalis , owing to the development of a large occipito-angular annectent gyrus .
The lobulus parietalis superior is simply subdivided by a subordinate sulcus .
A vertically directed branch of the sulcus interparietalis takes the place of the ordinary posterior upcurved extremity of the ramus horizontalis posterior of the sulcus Sylvii .
A small subordinate shallow sulcus subdivides the centre of the gyrus supra-marginalis , THE BRAIN OF MR. CHARLES BABBAC4E .
1.27 Lobus temporalis .
The right temporal lobe , like the left , is highly developed , as also is the associated occipito-temporal region .
Sulcus temporalis superior ( parallel sulcus).\#151 ; The parallel sulcus commences close ( 3 mm. ) to the sulcus interparietalis and runs down parallel to the fissure of Sylvius , terminating opposite the vertical plane of the sulcus prsecentralis inferior .
Sulcus temporalis inferior.\#151 ; This is a very long sulcus , beginning above with the parallel sulcus and , though interrupted in the middle , its direction is continued until it terminates by an H-shaped end , the mesial half of which reaches almost the rhinal pole of the lobe .
the central interruption of the sulcus is double by reason of the development of a broad ( 2'5 cm .
) gyrus which unites the gyri temporales medius et inferior and is itself subdivided by a secondary sulcus .
Sulcus temporalis concentricus.\#151 ; Two subordinate concentric sulci follow the margin of the pole of the lobe on its outer surface .
Sulcus occipito\#166 ; temporalisvel sulcus temporalis inferior ( Retzius and other authors).\#151 ; As in the left hemisphere , the sulcus occipito-temporalis very deeply cuts the tentorial margin , forming a well-marked at the bottom of which are interlocking gyri and a subordinate sulcus on the posterior wall of the cleft .
Sulcus collateralis.\#151 ; The right collateral sulcus is symmetrical with that of the left side .
The inferior or tentorial surface of the lobe is equally divided by the sulcus which , as on the opposite side , begins in a well-marked T-shaped end , constituting a concentric sulcus .
The actual junction of the two sulci is bridged closely below the surface by a narrow gyrus .
Sulcus hippocampi.\#151 ; This important sulcus is perfectly simple in outline .
Lobus occipitalis .
The right lobus occipitalis is much subdivided , and the pole presents a deep lateral sinus groove ( Bastian ) .
Sulcus calcarinus.\#151 ; The general plan of the sulcus calcarinus is exactly that of the left hemisphere , but simpler .
In its depth are well-defined anterior and posterior cuneolingual gyri .
Sulcus limitans area striata superior.\#151 ; This important topographical sulcus is extremely well marked .
Sulcus cunei.\#151 ; The cuneus is divided deeply by a well-marked secondary sulcus which cuts the margin of the hemisphere .
Sulcus occipitalis intrastriatuslateralis superior.\#151 ; The sulcus lateralis superior is very well marked and is not invaded by the sulcus intraparietalis .
Sulcus occipitalis lunalus vel lateralis inferior.\#151 ; Parallel to the sulcus lateralis inferior is an inferior one , much shallower , but furnished with secondary branches .
Sulcus parieto-occipitalis , ( a ) Parsexternus.\#151 ; The external part of this sulcus is very short , extending not more than P4 cm .
from the mesial surface .
It is very deep and contains the upper end of the anterior wall subordinate sulcus .
( b ) Pars internusv .
mesialis .
This part , like that ol the left side , is very deep and presents a subordinate sulcus on both the anterior and posterior walls .
Superficies mesialis .
Sulcus subpar let alls.\#151 ; This is a well-marked H -shaped sulcus subdividing the lobulus quadrat us symmetrically .
Sulcus cinguli ( v. Sulcus calloso-marginalis).\#151 ; This , with the other sulci of the mesial surface , is remarkably developed and symmetrical with that of the other side .
It is uninterrupted from its origin posteriorly , where it deeply cuts the margin of the hemisphere , until it ends in front at the posterior extremity of the gyrus rectus frontalis .
Sulcus rostralis.\#151 ; Parallel to the sulcus cinguli is a very deep and richly branched sulcus rostralis .
It begins first in front of the central plane of the lobus frontalis and superficially ends ( not actually ) in the anterior extremity of the sulcus cinguli .
By its branches it repeatedly divides the marginal gyrus , which is also indented by paramedial shallow subordinate sulci .
One such , deeper than the rest , maybe recognised as the sulcus rostralis inferior .
The Gyri .
The condition of relative development of the gyri is better revealed by inspection of the photographs than any description in words .
This , however , is the place in which a comparison of the special areas in the two hemispheres should be given .
As will have been recognised from the description of the sulci , there is a very marked symmetry of the lobes and their subdivisions .
Lobus limbicus.\#151 ; The gyri cinguli are perfectly similar , the gyri rostrales are as nearly absolutely symmetrical as possible , and the same is true of the gyri semilunares Retzii and the tubercula olfactoria .
Lobus frontalis .
Pars orbitalis.\#151 ; The orbital gyri , apart from complexity , offer nothing for special mention .
Pars externus.\#151 ; The gyri of the pole and of the regio prsefrontalis# are much subdivided and complex in both hemispheres .
The posterior third of the gyrus frontalis superior is simple on both sides , but the right is rather more complex than the left .
The gyrus centralis anterior is strikingly different in the two hemispheres , that of the left being very notably more massive and developed than that of the right side .
Thus the breadth of the right gyrus just above the genu inferior , .
, the lower part of the area for the upper limb representation , is 1*2 cm .
, whereas the left is 1*6 cm .
Further , the breadth of the lower end of the right gyrus at a point 1*5 cm .
above the * I.e. , the region in front of the plane of the sulcus prsecentralis inferior .
THE BRAIN OF MR. CHARLES BABBAGE .
sulcus Sylvii is 1*3 cm .
, whereas the left gyrus at the same height is 2*75 cm .
, .
, more than twice in volume .
Hence , a very extensive area of cortex for the representation of the movements of the larynx , tongue , and jaw is provided in the left hemisphere .
The lobuli paracentralesare symmetrical and simple .
Lobi occipitales.\#151 ; The gyri of the occipital lobes are both alike in complexity and arrangement .
Lobi temporales.\#151 ; The gyri of the rhinal poles of the temporal lobes are distinctly more complex in the left than right hemisphere , but their arrangement is alike .
The gyrus temporalis superior is larger in the left hemisphere and the whole outer surface of the lobe appears larger , the gyri more bridged and folded , than on the right hemisphere .
Regio occipito-temporalis.\#151 ; The incisura is exceedingly well marked on both sides , and is not bridged in either hemisphere .
The mass of gyri in front of it , i.e. , the region including the posterior thirds of the temporal gyri , the anterior limb of the gyrus angularis , and the gyrus supramarginalis , differs considerably on the two sides .
Thus , of the total length of both hemispheres , this region in the left hemisphere occupies 27 per cent. , whereas on the right side it occupies 36 per cent. On both sides the complexity is considerable , but the gyri on the left side are broader superficially than in the right hemisphere , in which the secondary sulci are somewhat deeper and more branched .
The regio occipito-temporalis is thus larger in the right than in the left hemisphere .
Its greater development longitudinally has been effected at the expense of ( almost entirely ) the lower halves of the gyri centrales , and , to a small degree , the lobi occipitales .
The gyriangulares are at their upper borders of equal length ( the hemispheres are equal in length ) , but the gyrus in the left hemisphere is bolder , and has a more expanded surface of cortex .
The gyri suprama are nearly symmetrical .
The gyrus centralis posterior , though of somewhat different outline , is of equal volume on the two sides , when its connection with the lobulus parietalis superior is included .
On both sides its upper two-thirds and the lobulus parietalis superior are simply modelled .
The opercula are similar , and present no noteworthy points of development .
Cerebellum.-\#151 ; The cerebellum is well developed and beautifully symmetrical .
The sulci are normal in arrangement .
The folia are remarkably fine and narrow , the average breadth not exceeding 1*2 millims. Many are again subdivided on their surface by subordinate grooves .
The Cranial Nerves.\#151 ; The cranial nerves are normal in arrangement and symmetrical .
The Tuber cinereumand Corpora albicantiaare normal and symmetrical .
Ventricles.\#151 ; The lateral and third ventricles , exposed hy the removal of the left hemisphere , appear to be normal and proportionately developed , VOL. CC.---B . .
8 Pons Varolii\#151 ; The pons is small ( 2*5 cm .
) in longitudinal depth , but normal in outline and proportion .
Medulla oblongata.\#151 ; The bulb is normal in every particular .
Summary .
The brain of Mr. Babbage is worthy of record as presenting evidence on ( 1 ) The neurological value of symmetry as a feature of cerebral growth in an individual of high intellectual ability .
( 2 ) The relative development of the areas of representation of locutory and graphic functions in contrast to sensorial representation .
APPENDIX I. Weights ( preserved in alcohol for 36 years ) .
L. hemisphere ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 396 grammes .
It .
hemisphere and cerebellum . . . .
508 , , Total weight in 1907 . .
904 , , The whole encephalon with pia matter and arachnoid , after draining off the blood and cerebrospinal fluid , weighed , in 1871 , 1406 grammes ( Sir Those .
Smith ) .
To this figure should be added ( Marshall ) about 84 grammes to represent the average loss , as ascertained by Boyd , due to senile wasting between the ages of 40 and 80 years .
If this be correct , then the normal maximal weight of Mr. Babbage 's brain would be 1490 grammes .
il leas urem L. hemisphere .
R. hemisphere .
cm .
cm .
Greatest polar length 16-8 16-6 Greatest breadth of orbital surface of frontal lobe 5-0 5-3 Greatest thickness of hemisphere , i.e. , from the ganglion interpedunculare to the lower end of the sulcus interparietalis 6-4 6-7 Anterior commissure , vertical diameter 0-5 \#151 ; Anterior commissure , horizontal diameter 0-3 Middle commissure 0-9 Pineal body ( cystic ) 0-9 \#151 ; Corpus albicans , sagittal diameter 0-55 0-4 Crus cerebri , greatest breadth at section 1-8 1-8 Corpus callosum , length in mesial plane 8-1 \#151 ; Anterior colliculus , longitudinal diameter 1 Injured by section r o-9 Anterior colliculus , transverse diameter j of separation 1 0-65 Posterior colliculus , longitudinal diameter \#151 ; 0-9 ( Frsenulum , well marked ) , transverse diameter 0-5 0-5 Brachium anterius , transverse diameter . .
\#171 ; .
0-2 Brachium posterius ( upper part ) , transverse diameter ... .
\#151 ; 0-3 Pons , greatest sagittal length , in plane of the pyramid \#151 ; 2-5 Maximal transverse diameter of bulb at the plane of the 1-3 pyramidal decussation THE BRAIN OF MR. CHARLES BABBAGE .
Literature .
1 .
Cunningham .
'Cunningham Memoirs , ' No. VII , by Prof. D. J. Cunningham , M.D. , F.R.S. Dublin , Royal Irish Academy , 1892 .
2 .
V. Hansemann .
" Ueber die Gehirne von Th. Mommsen , Bunsen und Ad .
v. Menzel , ' ' Bibliotheca Medica Schweizerbart , ' Stuttgart , 1907 .
3 .
Idem .
' Zeitschrift fur Psychiatrie , ' vol. 20 .
4 .
Horsley .
Chapter in Prof. Cunningham 's ' Cunningham Memoirs , ' No. VII , 1892 .
5 .
Marshall .
" The Brain of the Late George Grote , F.R.S , " ' Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , ' 1893 , p. 21 .
6 .
Retzius .
' Das Menschenhirn , ' 1896 .
' Biologische Untersuchungen , 'N.F .
, 1898 to 1905 ; especially the description of the brain of Prof. Ch. Loven , ' B.U. , ' Vol. 12 , No. 3 , 1905 .
7 .
Sritzka , E. A. " A Preliminary Communication of a Study of the Brains of Two Distinguished Physicians , Father and Son , " ' Philadelphia Medical Journal , ' April 6 , 1901 .
8 .
Idem .
* American Anthropologist , ' vol. 6 , 1904 .
9 .
Wagner .
' Windungen der Hemispharen und das Gehirngewicht , ' Gottingen , 1860 .
10 .
Waldschmidt .
' Allgemeine Zeitschrift fur Psychiatrie , ' vol. 43 , 1887 , p. 373 .
[ Note.\#151 ; After the work described in this paper had been completed , the report by Professor E. A. Spitzka , entitled " A Study of the Brains of Six Eminent Scientists and Scholars belonging to the American Anthropometric Society , together with a Description of the Skull of Professor E. D. Cope " ( ' Transactions of the American Philosophical Society , Philadelphia , ' 1907 , p. 175 ) , came into my hands .
I regret that the special points detailed by Dr. Spitzka , particularly the relative size of the corpus callosum , have not received the attention they deserve .
] Horsley .
Phil. Trans. , B. , Vol. PI .
9 .
LEFT HEMISPHERE .
II II I M IT 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 II Mil III 1 [ II II | II 1 1 lllllllll iiiiiinl lllljllil 111111111 ii 11111 rr lllllllll II Mill II TIT \#166 ; I | n | rirn Metre 1 1111illll 2 1 3 -J 1 1 1 1 1 '"H 4 I 5 1 6 1 7 8 9 10 H 12 13 14 15 RIGHT HEMISPHERE .
Vorsley .
\#166 ; Phil. Trans. , B. , Vol. PI 10 .
LEFT HEMISPHERE .
niijhii INI Mill II1 ll 1II 1 III II II iiiimii 111 i jirM II 1 1 III i mm 11M1 illllllli 111 HI l| MljlMI lllljllll 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 Mill Metre 1 1 2 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 I 9 10 1 11 i 12 13 14 1 15 LEFT HEMISPHERE Tlli|in 1 1 11 Mi II II ll 1 INI 1 II II 1 1 1 1 ifll jll II 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i i m 11 Ml f n 4 u i r r 11 ] 111111 1 1 1 I I 1 1 1 lllljllll M 1II11II llllllMI 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ii uinrr 1II111111111 Mjl Metre 1 1 2 I " 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 H '"'t 12 1 13 14 15 i 16| LEFT HEMISPHERE .
Horsley .
Phil. Trans. , B , Vol. RIGHT HEMISPHERE .
mill in llllllllt 111111111 1 II 1 1 1 1 1 1 llmmi II !
111III lllllllll 1 1 Mill 1 1 1 1 III 1 lllljllM i Metre 1 2 3 4 1 5 T *6 11 11 7 8 9 10 TTTT WSorsley .
EIGHT HEMISPHERE .
Phil. Trans. , B. , Vol. PI .
12 .
RIGHT HEMISPHERE .
Horsley .
Phil. Trails .
, B. , Vol. PI .
13 .
RIGHT HEMISPHERE .
mill 111 11II11111 Mil Mil !
llll|llll 1 1*1 1 II II 1 !
1 III 111 lllllllll INI Mill llllllill 111111111 lllllllll lllllllll iiiiiilll 1 1 1 1 | 11 1 1 illlllill I Metre 1 1 2 3 4 1 5 6 1 7 i 8 1 ( 9 10 l 11 1 1 12 I 13 14 I 15 LEFT HEMISPHERE .
II1 i 1II M II II Mil 11 ll 1 Mil II II M !
1 1 1 I I 1 1 1 11 1 1 | II II 1 1 1 1 1 ill* II Mllll II II 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 *11IIIITII III ll ill ll ll Mill 11 nhimi 1 1 1 11 1 1 I 1 lllllllll Mil 1 Metre 1 1 2 3 4 5 1 6 ' t ' 7 8 9 10 I I 1 I U| 12 13 14 15 16 1

