The following Report , drawn up by the Rev. Wiliiam Whewell , M.A. F.R.S. , and John Wiliiam Lubbock , Esq. M.A. V.P. and Treasurer R.S. , on Professor Airy 's Paper , read before the Royal Society on November 24 , 1831 , and entitled , " On an Inequality of Long Period in the Motions of the Earth and Venus , " was read .
Report .
The object of this memoir is similar to that of Laplace 's celebrated investigation of the great inequality of Jupiter and Saturn , announced in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences for 1784 , and given in the volume for the succeeding year .
The occasion of that investigation was an acceleration of the mean motion of Jupiter and a re ?
tardation of that of Saturn , ?
which inequalities in the motions of the two planets Halley had discovered by a comparison of ancient and modern observations : and Laplace showed , in the Memoirs just re ?
ferred to , that inequalities like those thus noticed would arise from the action of gravitation ; that they would reach a considerable amount in consequence of twice the mean motion of Jupiter being very nearly equal to five times the mean motion of Saturn ; and that their period would be nearly 900 years .
The occasion of the in ?
vestigation of Professor Airy was an inequality in the sun 's actual motion , as compared with Delambre 's Solar Tables , which appeared to result from a comparison of late observations with those of the last century , ?
as Professor Airy has explained in a memoir published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1828 .
This comparison having convinced him of the necessity of seeking for some inequality of long period in the earth 's motion , it was soon perceived that such an in ?
equality would arise from the circumstance that 8 times the mean motion of Venus is very nearly equal to 13 times the mean motion of the earth .
The difference is 1 , G75 centesimal degrees in a year , ?
from which it follows , that if any such inequality exist , its period will be about 240 years .
To determine whether such an inequality arising from the action of gravitation , amounts to an appreciable magnitude , is a problem of great complexity and great labour .
The coefficient of the term will be of the order 13 minus 8 , or 5 , when expressed in terms of the excentricities of the orbits of the Earth and Venus , and their mutual inclination ; all which quantities are small ; and the result would therefore , on this account , be very minute .
But in the integrations by which the inequality is found , the small fraction expressing the difFerence of the mean motions of the planets enters twice as a divisor ; and by the augmentation arising from this and other parts of the process , the term receives a multiplier of about 2,200,000 .
In the corresponding step of the investigation of the great inequality of Jupiter and Saturn , it was only necessary to take terms of the 3rd order of smallness , and the multiplier by which the terms are augmented has 30'2 instead of 2402 for its factor .
In the present state of physical astronomy methods exist by which the results of the law of universal gravitation in the planetary system may be obtained to any degree of accuracy , by calculating in suc ?
cession the terms of successive orders of minuteness , the order being estimated according to the powers and products of the excentricities of the orbits .
But it is well known , that in the actual application of these methods , the number of the terms arising from the combination of the several series which occur , and thecompiexity of the operations by which the coefflcients of these terms are to be deduced , increase so rapidly in passing beyond the lower orders of inequalities , that the calculation is difficult and laborious .
The numerical calculation of a perturbation depending on the 5 th powers of the excentricities has not been executed , so far as we are aware , except in the case of the great inequality of Jupiter and Sa ?
turn , where , as Laplace states ( Me'canique Celeste , p. ii .
liv .
G. 9 ?
) , this labour , " penible par sonexcessive longueur , " has been performed by Burckhardt with a scrupulous attention .
And no calculation of a new inequality of a high order , requiring to be placed in the pla ?
netary tables , with a new argument , has been published since that of the great inequality by Laplace in 1784 .
One of the main parts of the labour of such calculations consists in obtaining the successive terms of a certain quantity on which the perturbing forces depend , and which in the Mecanique Celeste is called R. This quantity is a function of the positions of the two planets which affect each other , and involves the reciprocal of the distance of the two bodies .
It is to be expanded according to the powers and products of the excentricities and inclination of the two orbits , its successive terms having as factors the cosines of certain angles , all of which increase proportionally to the time .
It may be expanded by Taylor 's theorem applied to several va ?
riables , according to powers of the excentricities , and/ '2 , / being the sine of half the inclination * .
In this expansion the coefflcients of the cosines of the different arguments are functions of certain quantities A or b ( according to the notation of the Mecanique Celeste ) , and of the partial differential co ?
efflcients of these quantities with regard to a and d , the radii of the orbits ; admitting however of reduction so as to contain the differen ?
tial coefflcients with regard to one of these quantities only .
The quantity b is a function of ?
, and has several values distinguished by different indices : these are connected by certain well-known equations of condition .
The author of the present memoir obtains the development of R in terms of quantities C , sym* Laplace uses s , the tangent of the inclination .
Burckhardt expresses himself to be in great doubt what function of the angle it is best to take .
i metrical functions of a and a ; and the different quantities Care of course connected by equations of condition similar to the others .
The general development of R , given in the third volume of the Mecanique Celeste , extends only to the terms depending on the squares of the excentiicities .
Burckhardt carried the development much further in the Memoires de VInstitut for 1808 ; but Professor Airy 's formulae are not immediately comparable with his , on account of the employment of C instead of b. The formulae of Burckhardt include however only G out of 12 of Professor Airy 's coefficients , in consequence of the omission of terms depending on the inclination , by the former mathematician .
In the expansion of R , the terms which proceed according to the powers of the excentricities and of the sine of half the inclination ( e , e , f ) , involve cosines of the multiples of V , T , and V ?
T , ( V and T indicating the mean motions of Venus and the Earth with the addition of certain constant quantities .
) By expanding also the variations of the radii vectores , which occur in these terms , according to powers of e , e , the cosines of multiples of the arcs Fand T again enter these terms .
Hence the series will finally contain the pro ?
ducts of the cosines of the three kinds of arcs , namely , multiples of V ?
T , Fand T ; which , as is well known , may be expressed in terms of the cosines of their sums and differences .
These last arcs will produce various combinations of the form pV ?
q T. Of these we are to select those in which the are is 13 V ?
8 T ; for such terms will , in the calculation of the perturbations , be divided by very small quantities ( namely , either - ?
or ) , and may thus produce results of appreciable magnitude .
It may serve to assist us in forming a judgement concerning the place of Professor Airy 's memoir among the laborious calculations of physical astronomy , if we compare it with the investigation of the great inequality of Jupiter and Saturn , as originally given by La ?
place ( Mem. Acad. 1785 ) , the undertaking to which ithas the closest analogy among such researches * .
The number of terms arising from the combination of the three arcs above mentioned , V ?
T , V , and T , which give 13 T ? ?
8 V , is considerable ; but many of them are rejected on account of their coefficients going beyond the 5th order .
The following six are retained and have their value calculated : those in which V ?
T , V , T are respectively 8 , 5 , 0 ; 9,4,1 ; 10,3,2 ; 11,2,3 ; 12,1,4 ; 13 , 0 , 5 .
In the Jovi-Saturnian inequality , if ^and T still refer to the mean motions of the exterior and interior planets , four combi ?
nations are taken , namely , those in which V ? .
T , V , T are re ?
spectively 2 , 3 , 0 ; 3 , 2 , 1 ; 4 , 1 , 2 ; 5 , 0 , 3 .
The number of terms of the calculation depends also upon the order to which it is carried .
In Professor Airy 's investigation there are , to each angular factor , twelve terms arising from the combina ?
tions of e , e , f ; in that of the inequality of Jupiter to the 3rd order , there are four such terms .
The number of the coefflcients C , of the series for R , which it is requisite to calculate , depends both upon the number of effective combinations of arcs and the number of effective combinations of e , e , f. Hence the number of such coefflcients , and their differentials , which Professor Airy 's calculation demands , is very considerable .
In the calculation for Jupiter , Laplace uses G co ?
efflcients b , and 14 of their differentials , in which however 28 differentials are virtually obtained .
Professor Airy has occasion to use 70 values of C , the corresponding quantity in his process , and 98 of its differential coefflcients ; these quantities being calculated to a number of places from 7 downwards .
The calculation of the inequalities of the motions of Venus and the Earth , from the numbers thus obtained , requires the combination of these numbers with others depending on the excentricities , incli ?
nation , perihelia , and nodes of the orbits ; and contains , as has al ?
ready been said , 12 compound terms in the present investigation , and 4 in that of Laplace .
The greatest amount of the inequality thus explained by Laplace , was 20 ' for Jupiter and 47 ' for Saturn .
The effect of the inequality examined in the memoir before us , would give an error in the geocentric longitude of Venus of between 20 " and 30 " , if the mean motions of the Earth and Venus were determined , by comparing the observations about Bradley 's time with the observations of a few years ago ; and if the result were applied to calculate the next transit of Venus ( in 1874 ) .
The method adopted by Professor Airy in this investigation offers some peculiarities .
There are two principal methods which may be employed in such problems : one is the method of direct solution , according to which the equations on which the inequalities depend are solved directly , and the values obtained by the first approximate solutions are substituted in the terms before neglected , in order to obtain a new solution .
The other method is that of the variation of parameters ( developed by Lagrange ) , according to which the planet , at any moment of time , is conceived to be moving in an el ?
lipse , and the alterations are investigated which the elements of this ellipse must continually undergo , in order that the real motion may result .
The former of these methods is the one which has generally been employed in calculating all inequalities of the planets except secular ones , and is used by Laplace in the theory of Jupiter and Saturn .
In the present memoir the author has adopted the method of the variation of parameters , and he states his opinion that this , or some similar method , will ere long be adopted in the planetary theories , to the exclusion of other methods .
In one instance the author has introduced an alteration into the formulae given for the variation of the elements by those who have d R hitherto employed the theory of Lagrange .
The differential ?
, in Lagrange 's method , implicitly includes the differential of R with regard to the mean motion .
But it has been shown by Lagrange himself , and since him by others , that we may finally omit the term depending on the variation of n , if we usefndt throughout instead of n t. This reduction Professor Airy does not adopt , retaining explicitly the term - ? .
1J dn This difference in the formula* is equivalent to a change in the meaning of the term epoch .
In determining the longitude of the epoch of the instantaneous ellipse , Laplace , and others who have followed Lagrange , fix it by supposing this longitude to be the angle which we must add to the angle described by the variable elliptical mean motion since the origin of the time , in order to have the mean anomaly in the ellipse .
Professor Airy assumes the longitude of the epoch to be that angle , which we must add to the angle described by the instantaneous elliptical mean motion , considered constant since the origin of the time , in order to have the mean anomaly : the mean motion from the perihelion is , on the first supposition , fn dt-\-E , on the second , nt+ s. In the results of the calculations in these two ways there is no discrepancy , the difference of the formulas and the difference of the suppositions necessarily balancing each other .
It may be observed , that according to the method of the variation of parameters , a large portion of the inequality , in the present instance , falls upon the longitude of the epoch .
The coefficient of this inequality is something more than 2 " ; which produces nearly the same maximum amount in the longitude of the planet , the effects of the variations of the other elements being insensible .
In investigations of such extent and complexity as the one now before us , the selection of notation is a matter of considerable importance , in order to obtain the greatest possible degree of clearness and brevity .
In all cases when nothing is gained by the change , it is convenient to the reader that the notation should conform to the best established works already published .
Professor Airy has in general used the notation of the Mecanique Celeste .
He has , however , introduced a new notation , in order to express in an abbreviated manner the differentials of the quantities C , taken m times with regard to one major semiaxis , and n times with regard to the other , and multiplied respectively by the mth and nth powers of these semiaxes ; these products occurring so frequently , that the adoption of a short symbol for them , ( rn , n ) C , saves a great quantity of very repulsive labour .
Another abbreviation employed by Professor Airy respects the angles .
In the development of the terms arising from the suc ?
cessive steps of the expansion of 7 ?
, we obtain terms such as eq cos 2V and e3 cos 3 T , multiplied by others , such as cos(l 1V ? ?
11 T ) ; and by the resolution of such products we obtain the cosines of the sums and differences of these angles .
But it appears that the sums alone are useful .
Hence it follows , that if we have , at a certain step of the process , cos ( 2^+3 T ) , its coefficient must be e'2 e'3 , and this may be written e'2 e3 cos ( 2 -f3 ) without fear of mistake ; and this , when combined with such a term as cos ( 11V ? ?
11 T ) , will produce e'2 e3 cos ( 13 ? ?
8 ) .
This mode of writing and operating is also a great saving of labour ; for Fand T consist of the mean motions , with several constant terms added or subtracted .
The author states that he has paid great attention to ensuring the accuracy of the work ; having gone through the calculation by two different methods , and compared the values thus obtained , both in several intermediate steps , and in the final results .
We regard this paper as the first specific improvement in the solar tables made by an Englishman since the time of Halley , as valuable from the care which the author has employed in the numerical calculations , as well as for the sagacity he has displayed in the detection of an inequality so small , and of so large period ; and we recommend its insertion in the Philosophical Transactions .
( Signed ) W. Whewell .
J. W. Lubbock .

