]\gt ; Mr. D. Gill .
On the Presence of Sinco , as we have shown , the charge on an ion produced by Rontgen rays is equnl to the charge on a hydrogen ion in a liquid electrolyte , this latter charge is also electrostatic unit .
Although the value of No for hydrogen is 25 per cent. less than its value for other gases , we are justified in including hydrogen in the above general conclusion , as we should expect the value of for hydrogen to be too small .
Professor Rutherford inakes no mention of having corrected for the presence of air in his apparatus , or of having used perfectly dry hydrogen .
If we take the mean value of for moist hydrogen , we obtain In order to prove that the charge on the positive ion is equal to the charge on the negative ion , the ratio of the coefficients of diffusion must be shown to be equal to the ratio of the velocities .
Professor has shown that the negative ion6 travel faster under an electromotive force than the positive ions , the ratios of the velocities being for air and oxygen , for hydrogen , and for carbonic acid .
The experiments on diffusion show that the ratio of the velocities would be larger in dry than in moist gases ; but as this point has not yct been examined by Professor Zeleny , we cannot expect a very close recment betwcen the ratios which he gives for the velocities and the ratios of the coefficients of diffusion .
ars led to conclude that the charges on the positive and negave ions are cqual from another point of view .
It has been proved that the mean charge is the same as the charge on an ion of hydrogen in a liquid electrolyte .
If the charges differed , one of them would be less than the on the hydrogen ion , whereas experiments on electrolysis show that all ionic charges are cither equal to the charge on the hydrogen ion or an multiple of it .
" " On the Presence of Oxygen in the Atmospheres of certain Fixed Stars By DAVID GILL , C.B. , F.B.S. , \amp ; c. , Her Majesty 's Astronomer at the Capc of Good Hope .
Received Apri114 , \mdash ; pril 2 , lS99 .
In a paper read before the Society on Apri18 , 1897 , and in a subsequent p , apor , Mr. Frank draws attention to the grouping of lines other than those of and hydrogen in the of Scorpii , Canis Maioris , Centauri and Crucis , suggesting that the close correspondence between the grouping of these extra linos the known lines of oxygen , points to the probable presence of that gas in the atmospheres of these stars . .
Zeleny , ' Phil. Mag July , 1898 . .
Soc. Proc vol. 42 , No. 386 , p. 418 .
in the Sfars .
the latter paper he writes , " " The most remarkaI)respondence is in .
the cftse of the large group on either side of .
A slight shift of about a tenth-metre is required to bring the groups into identical positions .
However , the close similarity of the whole grouping of the two spectra as they appear on the plate , admits of little doubt that the lines actually constitute the spectrum of oxygen .
If this ) established , the spectrum of the first division of helium stars wonld due to hydrogen , helium , and oxygen In his subsequent work* Mr. McClean concludes , " " Taking into account , the succession of coincidences between the extra lines of Crucis and the oxygen spectrum can only be accounted for on the basis of the extra lines being in the main actually due to oxygen This conclusion does not , as yet , appear to have been fully accepted by spectroscopists , partly because , from the low dispersion used , the lines of the groups are not separately .
It is very general , known that the instrnmental equipment of the tory at the Cape , has recently been enriched by a complete equipment for Astrophysical research , the whole being the munifieent of Ir .
IcClean , The slit-spectroscope , for chment to the photogrttphio reached the Cape in the middle of JaItlary , and I resolved its first published work should with discovery .
As a complete account of the instrument and its observatory will bc subsequently published , it may be sufficient for the present to state that the object glass of the )hotographic telescope has perture of inches and focal length of 22 feet 6 inches , its mininlum focns heing , at present , for rays about midway between and The collimator of the spectroscope has an aperture of inches and focal length of inches , so that a cylinder of parallel rays 2 in diameter falls on the prisms , and the latter of sufficient to pass the whole of the rays which form the image of the spectrnm the sensibive plate .
The strument is provided with two telescopes of 2inches aperture , one being of about 36 in ches focal length , the other of 16 inches .
Only the larger of the two camera-telescopes have been employed in the after-mentioned observations .
There are two -iron prism boxes ; one of them contains three prisms of about each , which for rays near produces a deviation of so that the camera-telescope becomes parallel in the reverse directio1t to the slit-telescope .
The other prism box contains a single prism of .
The prisms both boxes are fixed , screw adiustment , in minimum deviation for .
The collimator is in the axis of a solid drawn steel cylinder\mdash ; the latter attaching by a flange at ons end to * Spectla of Southern Stars ' lford , )ndon , 1898 ) .
VOL. LXV .
D. ( ill .
of the butt end of the telescope , a -iron plate to the flange on the other end of the cylinder carries either one or other of the two prism boxes .
The slit-slide and prism for reflecting the comparison spark on the slit ( made on the plan of the Lick spectroscope ) are contained in it strong cast-steel box which is permanently attached to one end of the collimator tube .
This latter is a very strong solid drawn steel tube , the external surface of which has been turned and finished to a true cylindrical form , and it rests in proper geometrical bearings formed in strong cast-iron diaphragms , which are fitted inside the cylindrical body of the instrument .
A powerful slow mobion permits 1ihe collimator to be slid along its axis so as to focus the slit upon the image of the star at any required readin of the focussing scale .
The object-glass of the collimator is mounted on the end of another steel cylinder which also rests on geometrical bearings inside the outer coilimator tube , and it is also provided with fine slow motion and a focussing scale .
Both these scales are illuminated at will by small incandescent lamps , and by which are accessible from the outside .
The whole instrument can enveloped in felt to prevent any very slow change of temperature .
The comparison-spark apparatus is arranged with wide angle objectglasses , in such a way that if the image of the spark shines on the slit the object-glass of the collimator must be full of light .
Numerous trials in all positions of the instrnment have invarably given photo- graphs of the lines of the comparison spectrum of.iron rigorously coincident with the corresponding lines of [ he solar spectrum , the latter being obtained by exposing the slit in diffuse daylight .
The camera end with its focussing and tilting adjustments can be attached to either telescope by a flange with bayonet joint .
The focussing scale is divided to 1/ 10 mm. , and the amount of tilt of the plate-holder is measured on a graduated arc .
As the large telescope is fitted with an object-glass prism of 24 inches aperture ( which , when the slit spectroscope is in use , is folded back the manner shown in the frontispiece of Mr. McClean 's ' Spectra of Southern Stars heavy coumterpoises are required to balance the ) about the declination axis if the ) ectroscope is not attached .
In designing the spectroscope I was thus not limited by the necessity for its construction .
The complete instrument weighs being almost exactl .
the equivalsnt of the countsrpoises and ssing slide and camera , which removed for its adaptation .
every detail the fittings the spectroscope are designed with the necessary geometrical tions of freedom and no more , so that no shake nor variation of adiustment can arise from imperfection of workmanship ; that is to say , all the depend on adequate spring in th ltmosphcrcs of pressure against the minirnIbm of necessary points of support .
The object-glasses of the speotroscope were by shiel , all excellent .
The three dense prisms were also made by Brashier ; their definition is very fine , but the glass is rather yellow in colonr , produces great absorption of more refrangible than .
The single prism , by Steinheil , gives excellent definition , and the glass much whiter than in Brashier 's prisms .
The optical constants of the prisms have not yet been determined .
The moumting was constructed by the Cambridge Scientific Instrnment Company to my designs , in the most careful and tory way .
I am greatly indebted to Mr. Horace Darwin for much care in snpe1vision of the work and for some very ingenions improvements in detail which he carried out .
Above I am indebted to Mr. H. F. Newall , who has infinite trouble in making and testing the permanent adiustments of the instrument and in supervising the arrangement its .
To him I owe the fact that the instrument the in perfect adiustment and ready for work .
After a series of focussing trials by Newall 's method , a number of of star spectra were made with the three-prism box and long telcscopc .
The present paper deals chiefly with the results of snrcs of photograph of the spectrum of Crucis and of a comparison spectrum obtained on bIarch 15 .
The plate was exposed to the comp riso spectrum of iron immediately before and tely after the exposure for the star spectrum .
( See Plate 8 .
) Lines of the iron speetrum cover the whole exposed of ] plate from Fe to , the linear on the between these lines being mm. As a preliminary step , the intervals between successive of lines were measured with the micrometer of the old Repsold photographic measuring apparatus .
If is the interval between two adioining lines in terms of revolutions of the micrometer screw , and their respective wave-lengths , and I found , to my surprise , on computing for many of , and plotting these on millimetre paper with and as abscissa , that within the limits of error of )lotting observation the resulting curve was practically a aight line : in other words , the screw vadues can be represented by *'MonthlNotices , R.A. vol. 57 , p. 672 .
Descnbed by Bakhuyzcn , ' Bulletin du Congres ographiquc , ' vol. 1 , .
D. Gill .
On the Presence of Oxygcn - or whore Such o/ lly ) eappIe to a limited lion of the wholc , for it ) vions t fox no ] of be ] In .
to test over what of the spectrum this law might be ficierltly rigorous , fonr selected iron lines were measured in , of the millimetrc scalc which is attached to the unent , the division errors of which known for each 5th millimetre .
For c.onvenienc.e the measnres lverted into screw , of the nliclomoter microscope nsed in the spectra , viz. , olution mm. Fe , 4443 .
159130 ' for , , , , Thus for interpolation between adioining known iron lines the diflerences , , itre over the rnnge of specwith which we to , ltnd consequently the logs of toly to mettbured between the lines .
If this were for the wholc of our spectrum one onld o follows:\mdash ; in ospheres of Stars .
Let be the micrometer readiJlgs on any two known lines , for nn , , \ldquo ; the of the line then to find , corresponding to we ve ( 1 ) , the square brackets denote the logs of the included ntities .
the ecoIld diffferenceb of \amp ; for successive dnes of not strictly ' the whole length of our spectrum shown the diHerent v of tained above .
ssume a coIlsiant late the of means of our mula ( 1 ) we obtain Colnputed .
Known -Computed .
The rences " " -compnted\ldquo ; exceed the errors to the ) the cies of the tions of the -lengths , thnb showing have JeeIl introduced by neglec.t of the tions in the second of the suecessive of It is however very to take ccount of these riations 1 ) comfor diffelent values of with the gument , on the ssumption that ries p to we from this table with the ) length of the line , whose defi1Utive -length is ' we find the -lengths ac.curately represented .
As well known lines found within tenth-mebrcs of the unknowIl lines , it is ] for ) of * I -lengths of solal .
by npbcll ( ' A. P. rnal , , 1898 arc } ully rghout by tlns siljlplo methud ot D. .
On of en tion by formula to employ the value of from the with argnment In this way the wave-lengths of the lines the spectrum of givsn in the following table ( pp. 203\mdash ; 204 ) , have been determined:\mdash ; Column ( 1 ) gives the wave-lengths of all the known oxygen lines of intensity 3 or brighter , ) etween 4303 and ' 4575 , according to Neovius as well as Trowbridge and Hutchins .
Column ( 2 ) gives the wave-lengths of all helium lines according to Puunge and Paschen , contained within limits of the spectrum under observation .
Colunm ( 3 ) gives the resuIts of my measurements of the negave of the spectrum of Crucis , those under head I being my first the measurement of any photographed spectrum , those undcl head being the results of my second measurement , including all the lines which could be detected under most oareful and repeated scrutiny .
result in series I dspends on two pointings , each in series II on four pointings .
The lines whose -lengths are given to two decimal places of the tenth-metre , were measured with a magnifying power of fifteen diameterb , those give to one dec.imal place with a power of only three \mdash ; the lines of the Iatter class ) eing very faint and only certainly visible under a very low power .
, different iron lines were used in series I and II for of the wave-lengths of the stellar ] .
The observations were not arranged for determination of motion in the line of sight , but the exact coincidence of the star line with the itir ( oxygen ) line , and the tgreement of the stell hydrogen and helium with their known wave-lengths , tend to show that the relative motion of Crucis to the Earth on February 21 did not exceed kilometres per second .
On that date the Earth in its motion roumd the Sun was moving towards Crucis with a velocity of 18 kilometres per seoond , and consequently Crucis is probably receding from the SUD with a velocity of 18 kilometres kilometres per second .
The whole of the known helium lines within the measured range of spectrum are unquestionably present , as also are all known oxygen lines stronger than intensity 4 .
The exceedingly faint lines:\mdash ; Crucis may be coincident with Neovius H. , and Crucis or be coincident with Neovins T. and H. * Watts , ' Indcx of ' Appcndix E. .
'A .
P. , p. 10 .
in of certain Fixrd Sf , are .s .
a a a a a a a a co co Mr. D. Gill .
On the Pr.csencc of , Plate S. ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri ri . .
in the Atmosphercs of ccrfain Fixed Stars .
200- but these coincidences are very doubtful , and it is improbable that such very lines would be represented , whilst the neighbouring line , intensity 3 , is wanting on the photograph .
The oxygell lines of intensity 4 which are .
:\mdash ; Neovius and are in a portion of the speotrum which is somewhat over exposed , and this fact probably accounts for the non-appearance on the plate .
Possibly also the relative intensities of the oxygen lines at the temperature and pressure of the atmosphere of lcis may be different from their relative intensities in the conditions under lvhich Neovius determined the intensities of the air lines ( spark spectrum ) .
There remains however not the slightest doubt , that all the stronger oxygen lines are present in the spectrum of Crucis , at least between 4250 and 4575 , and this fact requires no further laboratory experiments for its establishment .
It is almost equally certain that there is no trace of true nitrogen lines in this spectrum .
The only measured lines of Crucis near known nitrogen lines are :\mdash ; Neovius Intensity lb Crucis , , lb , , but it is improbable , although not impossible , that nitrogen of intensity ( 1 ) should be present whilst the nitrogen line of intensity 6 , is absent .
Besides hydrogen , helium and oxygen , the spectrum of Crucis shows the probable presence of carbon and .
These lines were not included in the first meastlrement , in the former case because the line could not be distinctly seen with the higher power , in the latter because I was doubtful of the existence of the line on account of a slight defect in the film at that point , but other negatives confirm its existence .
A contact positive from the original negative of the spectrnm is sent herewith for reproduction .
The spectra of Crucis , and Canis Iajoris , and probably Centauri are all practically identical .
They all contain the three unknown strong 4574.68 besides the probable magnesium line , the ines of helium , the stronger oxygen lines , and the probable carbon line Farther investigations on this class of stars will be snbsequently colnmunicated ; in the while I forward also for reproduction a contact positive from a ncgative of the spectrnm of Canis taken on -Iarch15 with the })rism , in which the sIit has been focussed forVOL. .
rays of about 4080 , and with a comparison spcctrnmR Proceedings of Papers read .
from an oxygen tube , a leyden jar and air space being introduced in the secondary circuit of the Ruhmkorff coil .
( Sce Plate 8 .
) This photograpb shows the coincidence of stellar lines with the group of three strong oxygen lines , .
:\mdash ; Neovius .
T. and H. Intensity .
4072 .
9 and other neighbouring oxygen lines beyond the range of the three prism train .
The lines are all displaced towards the red ) motion .
On lIarch 15 the Earth by its motion round the Sun was receding from Canis Minoris , a veIocity of 17 kilometres per second , which agrees with the direction of the displacement of the oxygen lines .
There has not yet been time to determine the constants of the single-prism spectroscope , but this does not aflect the question of the identification of the oxygen lines in the spectrum of Canis Majoris .
The plates of the spectra of Crucis and Canis exposed and developed by my assistant , .
J. Lunt .
June 1 , 1899 .
Annual hIeeting for the Election of Fellows .
Professor T. G. BONNEY , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the Election of Fellows having been read , Dr. A. A. Common and Dr. J. H. Gladstone were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , to assist the Secretaries in the examination of the balloting lists .
The votes of the Fellows pressnt were collected , and the following Candidates were declared dnly elected into the Society:\mdash ; Barrett , Professor William .
Morgan , Professor Conwy Lloyd , Booth , Charlcs , D.Sc .
F.G.S. Bruce , David , ajor R I.C. Reid , Clement , F.G.S. Fenton , Henry John Horstman , Starlin , Ernest Henry , M.D. M.A. .Tanner , Professor Henry William Gamble , James Sykes , .
Lloyd , M.A. Haddon , Alfred Cort , Threlfall , Eichard , M.A. M.A. Tutton , Alfred E. , B.Sc. Head , Henry , M.D. lVindle , Professor Bertram Coghill Hele-Shaw , Professor Henry , Allen , M.D. Inst. Thanks given to the Scrutators .

