]\gt ; IL ' On the Principal Electric Time-constant of a Circular Disk By HORACE LAMB , , F.R.S. , Professor of Pure , Mathematics in the Owens College , Victoria University .
S Received March 29 , 1887 .
circumst eourse , hich important fotations , which areater oersistence opoint oiewcurrents otarted ionnexion witha section ocases.constant chein which turrent ipposite directions iifferent parts onterest feasons first , ation tsvery great iomparison wwhich bypesA dation oconstants ouniform c Professor Hxperiments wnduction bhichthe disturbance produced iield burrents induced ietal disks ( such as was studied .
Unfortnnately , the mathematical problem thus suggested would seem to be difficuIt .
Restricting ourselves , for simplicity , to cases where the currents flow in circles concenbric with the disk , so that the problem is not complicated by the existence of an electric potential , then if be the current-function , the electric momentum at a distance from the centre of the disk will be , where is the potential of an imaginary distribution of ( matter of density over the disk .
Hence , if be the resistance per unit area , we have\mdash ; In any normal type , and will vary as , and , therefore\mdash ; , ( 2 .
) Putting , and passing to the case of a disk , by putting , we find that to the surface-density\mdash ; corresponds , for points of the disk , the potential\mdash ; * See Rayleigh 's ' Sound , ' SS88 , \amp ; c. See Ferrers , ' Quart .
Journ. Math vol. 14 , p. 1 .
1 In the electrical application we must suppose : Electrie Time-constant of a Circular Disk .
in the usual notation of hypergeometric series .
In the electrical problem , then , to a current-function of the form ( 3 ) corresponds the current-strength\mdash ; , . . . . .
( 5 .
) and the electric momentum\mdash ; .
( 6 .
) The assumption ( 3 ) will correspond accurately to a normal type for a non-uniform disk , provided the law of resistance be properly adjusted .
For ( 2 ) is satisfied if-- , that is , , ( 8 .
) where is the resistance at the centre ; and the time-constant is\mdash ; .
( 9 .
) ; For , we have\mdash ; Since diminishes from the centre outwards , we see that ' is a superior limit for a disk of uniform resistance 292 Prof. H. Lamb .
On the Principal For from which it appears that is a superior limit for a uniform disk .
For , ( 10 .
) .
( 11 .
) This case is remarkable as giving a resistance nearly uniform over the disk , except close to the edge , where it rapidly increases .
The second column in the following table gives the resistance at various distances from the centre ; ths third column , the esponding thicknesses terms of the thickness the centre , the material of the disk being supposed uniform .
The minimum value of is , corresponding to Denoting this minimum by , we find from ( 11 ) This is an inferior limit to the value of for a disk of uniform resistance Electric Time-constant of a Circular Disk .
293 Some further information may be gathered from the second principle stated above .
The electrokinetic energy of the system of currents defined by ( 3 ) is\mdash ; .
The integral Hence .
( 12 .
) If the disk be of uniform resistance , the dissipation is\mdash ; ( 13 .
) Introducing a time-factor , and supposing that the system of currents is constrained to remain of the type ( 3 ) during the decay , we find on equating the rate of diminution of the energy to the dissipation\mdash ; .
( 14 .
) Any value of obtained from this formula will be an inferior limit It appears that the value ( 14 ) of is a maximum for about , and , hence , that the principal time-constant of a circular disk is not less than .
We have seen that the value of obtained by putting in ( 3 ) must be a pretty fair representation of the most persistent type of free currents in a unifol.m disk , and the case of will not be materially different .
The " " stationary\ldquo ; property already alluded to therefore warrants us in asserting that the value just given must be a close approximation to the truth .
If be the thickness , the specific sistance of the material , we may write our result thus\mdash ; For a of copper , a decimetre in radius .
and mm. in thickness , this gives sec. Addendum.\mdash ; April 11 , 1887 .
In the above calculations it is assumed that the current-intensity is sensibly uniform throughout the thickness of the disk .
This will be the case , all events for a non-magnetisabls substance , if the radius be a moderately large multiple of the thickness .
To examine point more closely , it will be sufficient to consider a simpler problem in which all the circumstances can be calculated with exactness .
Let us suppose then that we have a system of free currents everywhere parallel to the axis of in a stratum of conducting matter bounded by the pIanes y the usual notation we sball have\mdash ; Electric Time-constant of a Circular Disk .
' ' O. In the spaces on each side of the stratum\mdash ; ; whilst in the conductor itself\mdash ; The equation of electromotive force is\mdash ; the time-factor , as before , bsing .
Let us further assume that enters into the value of only through a factor .
We shall then have , in the conductor\mdash ; where , . . . .
( 15 .
) and in the external spaces\mdash ; The solutions of these equations , appropriate to our prssent problem , are and respectively , the upper or lower sign being taken in the latter expression as is iv or negative .
At the snrfaces of the conductor we must have\mdash ; when the accented letters relate to points just outside , the unaccented to points just inside .
These conditions give\mdash ; Electric Time-constant a Circukr Disk .
whence .
( 16 .
) If , as we have supposed , and is small , the principal root of this equation in is small , and the current-intensity , which as , will be nearly uniform throughout the thickness .
equation ( 16 ) then gives\mdash ; and therefore from ( 15 ) \mdash ; , where .
For the purpose of a rough comparison with our original problem we nray suppose that is comparable with , the radius of the disk .
It follows that the effect of replacing the actual disk , of finite thickness , by an infinitely thin disk of the same ductivity ( per unii area ) is to increase the time-constant by the fraction of itseIf , abou In an iron plate , on the other hand , the currem-intellsity will fall off considerably from the median plane to the surface , unless the ratio be extremely small .
For instance , if , or sa .
, the principal root of ( 16 ) is , and the intensity at the surface is only its value in the median plane , although thickness of the disk may perhaps not exceed housandth of the radius .
Again if , being still small , is moderately \ldquo ; we shall have , nearly , so that the current-intensity almost vanishes the surface .
In such a case\mdash ; roughly .
It will be seen that within certain limits ( e.g. , if and the lateral dimensions be not more than about 100 times the thickness ) this resuIt is independent of the size and shape of the pIate .
Under these circumstances , the value of for an iron whose thickness is mm. will be comparable with sec.

