XXX .
On Bitumen in Stones .
By the Right Honourable GEORGE KNOX , F. R. S. Read June 12 , 1823 .
IN a Paper which I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society on the 9th of May , 1822 , I stated my intention of proceeding with an inquiry into the existence of bitumen in certain stones , not generally supposed to contain such a substance .
The result of the investigation , I now beg leave to submit .
In the Paper referred to , I described the manner in which the pulverised stone was distilled , in order to obtain the volatile ingredients .
I had at that time detected a bituminous substance in two varieties of Pitch-stone , the Newry , and the Meissen .
I have since subjected to the same process the following minerals , viz. , i. Arran Pitch-stone ; 2 .
Pearlstone , from Tokay , in Hungary ; 3 .
Pumice , from Iceland ; , .
Amygdaloid , from Disco Island ; 5 .
Basaltic , or Secondary Green-stone , from Newry ; 6 .
Transition Green-stone , from Carlingford Mountain in the County of Louth ; 7 .
Bole , from Disco Island ; 8 .
Basalt , from the Giants ' Causeway ; 9 .
Basalt , from Disco Island ; o. Transition , by some considered Primitive Green-stone , from Clack Hill , near Castle Wellan , in the County of Down , Ireland ; 1 I. Wacke , from Disco Island ; 12 .
Iron Clay , from Disco Island ; 1s .
Iron Clay , from Howth ; 14 .
Hornblende , from Schneeburg , Upper Saxony ; 15 .
Tourmaline , from Karorulik , in Greenland ; 16 .
Augite , from Arendal , Norway ; 17 .
Serpentine , from ZOplitz , Upper Saxony ; 18 .
Clay Slate , from Bangor , North Wales ; 19 .
White Felspar , from Killiney , near Dublin ; 2o .
Flesh-red Felspar , from Aberdeen , Scotland ; 21 .
Menilite , from Menil Montant , near Paris ; a. Adhesive Slate , from Menil Montant ; 23 .
Mica Slate , from Freyburg , Saxony ; 24 .
Mica , from the Ural Mountains , Siberia ; 25 .
Obsidian , from the Lipari Islands ; 26 .
Fetid Quartz , from Nantes in France ; 27 .
Common Quartz ; 28 .
Rock Crystal , from the Cape of Good Hope .
How far the investigation has been successful , or otherwise , the following details will determine .
i. Arran Pitch-stone .
This specimen was of a very dark oil-green colour , passing into raven black ; the fracture conchoidal in all directions , with numerous dots of pearl-grey felspar .
It lost by ignition in a platina crucible 4,7059 per cent. ; at a higher heat it fused , and lost on the whole 5 grains ; when distilled in an iron retort 4,5 per cent. of water and bitumen came over : as nearly as I could estimate 2 per cent. was bitumen .
It appeared to be similar to what I had obtained from the Newry Pitch-stone .
The retort contained a substance resembling pumice , but not sufficiently indurated .
It broke into joints like those in basaltic columns , one end of each joint being convex and the other concave .
The colour changed to milk-white .
2 .
Pearl-stone .
100 grains lost by ignition 3,25 , and changed from ashgrey to reddish white , having probably gained oxygen .
5l8 When distilled , the product was 2,5 of water and floating bitumen .
The substance remaining in the retort was like No. 1 , a soft pumice , and broke in the same manner .
S. Pumice .
Fused without loss .
4 .
Amygdaloid , from Disco Island .
Lost by ignition 3,25 .
The product of distillation was a bituminous water weighing s,1 per cent. 5 .
Basaltic Green-stone .
This is the Green-stone which forms beds in granite near the Newry Pitch-stone , and which I mistook for basalt .
The beds contain spheroidal concentric balls , as mentioned in my former Paper , and the specimen operated on was from one of those balls .
It lost by ignition 6,25 per cent. and produced by distillation , after the water had been expelled by a heat below redness , 1,75 of pure bitumen .
6 .
Transition Green-stone , Carlinford .
Lost by ignition 2 per cent. Distillation produced i,5 per cent. chiefly bitumen .
7 .
Bole .
Lost by ignition 24,5 per cent. The colour changed from Isabella-yellow to the-red .
A considerable quantity of bitumen was produced by distillation , but in consequence of an accident it could not be ascertained .
It had a saline taste , reddened turmeric paper , and , when presented to the vapour of muriatic acid , dense fumes were formed .
619 8 .
Basalt , from the Giants ' Causeway .
Lost by ignition 6,051 per cent. Obtained by distillation 6 per cent. of bitumen and water .
The retort contained a pumice , which broke , as in No. i. 9 .
Basalt , from Disco Island .
By distillation , 2,312 per cent. of bitumen and water .
The mass in the retort a pumice , which broke , as No. i. io Obsidian .
By ignition lost 1,75 per cent. Colour changed from ashgrey to reddish-white .
The original specimen , in the lump , raven black .
Distillation produced 0,2 per cent. of bituminous water , with indications of ammonia , The mass in the retort was a very vesicular , light , imperfectly vitrified substance , resembling the glassy pumice which adheres to , and is disseminated through , the Obsidian of Ascension Island .
It broke as No. i , and one piece , similar to the rest , had sublimed in the neck of the retort .
1 .
Green-stone , from Clack Hill .
By ignition lost s per cent. Distillation produced 2 per cent. of bituminous water , chiefly bitumen ; part of the bitumen so volatile as to be evaporated by the heat of the hand , through a thick glass , in a few seconds .
12 .
Wacke , from Disco Island .
This mineral , which is pure wacke , is found at Inmarsoall , on the south coast of Disco Island , midway between the east 520 and west boundary , imbedded in basaltic tuff , very near the shore .
In the neighbourhood are beds of brown coal .
Lost by ignition 19,4 per cent. Produce of distillation 11,42 bituminous water , 4 cubic inches of carbonic acid , and 8 of carburetted hydrogen .
The retort contained a velvet black powder , which being transferred to a covered platina crucible and exposed to a heat which melted cast iron , remained unchanged .
The carbone being burned off in an open vessel , there was a loss of 4 per cent. When the carbon was removed it melted into a slag .
I was induced by the above experiments , to try whether , by igniting this substance under charcoal to prevent the escape of the carbon , I might not make black chalk .
The experiment was successful .
The chalk was of a pretty good consistency and colour , and was effaced like graphite , both by bread and caoutchouc .
13 .
Iron Clay , from Disco Island .
By ignition it lost 21 per cent. Distillation produced a bituminous water , weighing 18,25 per cent. 14 .
Iron Clay , from Howth .
By ignition lost 5 per cent. Distillation produced 4 per cent of bitumen , with very little water .
The mass in the retort was a pumice , but approaching to vitrification , and of a pale violet-blue colour : when exposed to a stronger heat in a platina crucible the colour changed to greenish-grey .
15 .
Bole , from Disco Island .
Distilled in a coated green glass retort , the result was nearly the same as No. 7 , but it contained no ammonia .
Boiled a portion for a couple of hours in strong muriatic acid , filtered and evaporated .
A large quantity of the mineral had been taken up by the acid , but no muriate of ammonia was formed .
16 .
Hornblende , from Schneeburg , Upper Saxony .
By ignition lost 3 per cent. and colour heightened .
Distillation produced 0,75 per cent. of bituminous water , but some was lost in the process .
17 .
Tourmaline , from Karorulik , West Greenland .
Distillation produced 0,7 per cent. of bituminous water .
The mass in the retort was a pumice , but too much indurated .
The stone was velvet-black , the powder ash-grey , and the pumice pearl-white .
18 .
Augite , from Arendal .
By ignition lost 0,5 per cent. Distillation produced o,35 of bituminous water , chiefly bitumen .
The contents of the retort , a powder .
The heat was not very great .
19 .
Common Serpentine , from Zoplitz , Upper Saxony .
By ignition lost 2,5 per cent. Distillation produced 10,5 of bituminous water .
20 .
Clay Slate , from Bangor .
Lost by ignition , 3,25 per cent. Distillation produced s per cent of bituminous water .
5^2 The contents of the retort were coherent , but not hard , and broke as No. i. 21 .
White Felspar , from Killiney .
By ignition lost o , o4 per cent. colour unchanged .
Distillation in an iron retort produced o,35 per cent. of bituminous water , which gave with the vapour of muriatic acid indications of ammonia .
22 .
White Felspar , from Killiney .
Distilled in a coated green-glass retort , same result , but no appearance of ammonia .
23 .
Flesh-red Felspar , from Aberdeen .
Distilled in a coated green-glass retort , a bituminous water produced , but by the melting of the retort a part was lost .
It contained no ammonia .
The contents of the retort were pale reddish-white , coherent , but friable .
24 .
Menilite , from Menil Montant .
Distillation produced 3,75 per cent. of bituminous water , with some ammonia .
A friable substance remained in the retort , which on being exposed to a stronger heat in a platina crucible , lost 1,25 per cent. ; probably carbon .
Ignited under charcoal it became black , but did not write .
25 .
Adhesive Slate .
This was the matrix of Menilite , from Menil Montant .
Distillation produced 18,5 per cent. of water and bitumen ; the latter wine-yellow , and floating on the surface of the water .
The mass in the retort was coherent , but friable , and broke as No. i. 523 26 .
Mica Slate .
Ignited ; lost 2 per cent. and colour heightened .
Distilled ; a bituminous water very volatile , but no trace of ammonia ; part of the product lost .
Residuum in the retort a heavy pumice , which broke as No. i. 27 .
Mica , Silver-white .
Distillation produced 1,33 per cent. of bituminous water , with indications of ammonia .
The contents of the retort was slightly coherent .
28 .
Fetid Quartz .
By ignition lost 0,937 per cent. and its smell .
Distillation produced a bituminous water , smelling strongly of naphtha , but in which neither ammonia nor sulphuretted hydrogen could be traced .
29 .
Pearl-white Common Quartz Fat Quartz .
Ignition gave i per cent. loss .
By distillation o,1 of a very fetid bituminous water .
Contents of the retort a powder unaltered in colour .
30 .
Rock Crystal .
By ignition lost nothing ; the specimen was perfectly transparent and colourless , the powder snow-white .
31 .
Adularia , a Crystal , Pearl-white .
By ignition lost nothing .
32 .
Pearl-blue Adularia , from Greenland .
By ignition lost 0,4 per cent. All these substances , with the exception of the Rock Crystal and Pearl-white Adularia , scintillated more or less strongly when projected on boiling nitre .
524 ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTS .
I have again distilled felspar , and again obtained the volatile fluid .
33 .
Carrara Marble .
0,15 per cent. of water without smell , or alkaline mixture .
34 .
Lucullite , from Galway .
o,188 per cent. ; an oily smell at first , but afterwards became ammoniacal .
Litmus paper reddened by acetous acid became blue .
Vegetable blue paper became green .
The contents of the retort white , except at the upper part , where there was a carbonaceous appearance ; no effervescence , nor smell of sulphuretted hydrogen when put into dilute muriatic acid .
The distillations in iron retorts .
In a former distillation of Lucullite , in which the lime was not rendered quite caustic , muriatic acid in dissolving the residuum produced a smell of sulphuretted hydrogen .
*** I am obliged to Sir CHARLES GIESECKE , for the Greenland specimens ; to Mr. GRIFFITH , for those from Arran , Carlingford , and Castle Wellan ; and to Mr. MooRE , for the fetid quartz .
The stones were all ignited in a platina crucible .
OBSERVATIONS .
I do not mean to waste the time of the Royal Society , by applying the facts above stated to confirm , or invalidate , either of the great rival theories ; still less to support any hypothesis of my own .
A most instructive lesson has been inculcated by the recent discoveries of Sir HUMPHRY DAVY , in his examination of the cavities of crystals .
In that ingenious Paper , a fact , which had for many years been considered as evidence almost conclusive in favour of one system , has been converted into an argument nearly irresistible in support of the other .
I shall confine myself , therefore , to calling the attention of the Society to some of the most obvious results and inferences .
It may be a question , whether the bitumen obtained by distillation , has actually existed in the stone .
That it may have been somewhat altered , or contaminated in the process , is not improbable ; but it is to be observed , that an inflammable oily substance , scarcely discernible from that which distils over , may be obtained in the common method of analysis ; and likewise , that the bitumens obtained by distillation from such a variety of earthy 'substances , possess the same smell , colour , and volatility .
That the ammonia , however , which sometimes appears , is a product , and not an educt , I have myself little doubt ; and I trust , it is rendered highly probable by the experiments on felspar and bole .
I conceive that it arises from the decomposition of the bitumen , either by the iron of the retort , or the carbon of the stone , at a high temperature .
The manner in which pulverised stones , which are both bituminous and vitrifiable , agglutinate , and form substances resembling pumice , is a subject which may throw some light upon the natural formation of that substance .
The conversion of obsidian into a species of pumice , and the proof that it contains bitumen , will probably be considered as supporting the mineralogical arrangement , which places that curious substance in connection with pitch-stone .
As it appears from the facts here detailed that bitumen , or a volatile inflammable oil , exists in considerable proportion , and in chemical union , with all the rocks of the Floetz Trap formation , is it a far-fetched inference to considerthatformation as the chief source , whatever its own origin may have been , of the ejected volcanic products ?
The appearance of an inflammable substance in the lower or elder rocks , such as mica , slate , &amp;c. and , in particular , the exception in favour of colourless rock crystal and adularia , will probably obtain the attention of geologists .
It is observable also , that in the last named rocks , the quantity of the volatile and inflammable ingredients is less than in the upper or more recent formations , and that it seems also to be more firmly united .
If the scintillation of pulverised stones , when projected upon boiling nitre , be a test of their containing carbon , the experiments made with that object , demonstrate how much more generally that inflammable substance is distributed through the mineral kingdom , than was supposed ; and may account for much of the loss which the best chemists and most experienced manipulators are often obliged to acknowledge in their analyses .
From these observations may it not be inferred , that no 527 analysis of a stone can be perfectly relied upon , unless the stone itself has been distilled , and the product of the distillation examined.* To call the whole volatile matter which escapes when the stone has been ignited , water , is evidently a misnomer .
How many stones must we not now expect to contain bitumen as well as water ?
From how many does not carbon escape in the shape of carbonic acid gas or carburetted hydrogen ?
In conclusion , I hope I may be allowed , fromwhat is above stated , to recommend a previous distillation in all analyses of stony substances , in order to obtain the liquid bitumen , and also the carbon which has escaped in the shape of gas : and that the residuum in the retort should be afterwards examined for the remaining carbon , either by burning it off , or in such other manner as may seem best to the operator .

