[ 37 ] II .
A Comparison of Platinum and Gas Thermometers , including a Determination of the Boiling-Point of Sulphur on the Nitrogen Scale .
An Account of Experiments made in the Laboratory of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures Sevres .
By John Allen Harker , D.Sc .
, Formerly Bishop Berkeley Fellow of Oivens College , Manchester , Research Assistant at Kew Observatory , and Pierre Chappuis , Ph. D. , Savant Attache au Bureau International des Poids et Mesures , Sevres .
Communicated by the Kew Observatory Committee .
Received and Read June 15 , 1899 .
[ Plate 1 .
] Contents .
Page .
I. Introduction and historical resume ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
38 II .
Objects of the work ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 40 III .
to XII .
Discussion of different forms of platinum thermometer apparatus and construction of new resistance-bridge and accessories ... ... ... ... . .
41 XIII .
Galvanometer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 49 XIY .
and XY .
Platinum thermometers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
51 XVI .
Standardization of platinum thermometer apparatus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
52 XVII .
Calibration of the bridge-wire ... ... ... ... .
' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
52 XVIII .
Determination of the coil-values ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 55 XIX .
Progressive changes in coil-values .
- ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
58 XX .
Determination of the temperature-coefficient of the coils ... ... ... 59 XXI .
Fixed points of the platinum thermometers ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
61 XXII .
Heating effect of battery-current on the thermometer wire ... ... ... ... ... ... .
61 XXIII .
Determination of the centre of the bridge ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 62 XXIV .
General considerations on the gas thermometer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
63 XXV .
Comparison of platinum thermometers with mercury standards ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
64 XXVI .
Description of the gas thermometer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 67 a. Reservoir ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
67 b. and c. Barometer and manometer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 69 d. Measurement of pressure ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
70 e. Divided scale ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 71 XXVII .
Zero apparatus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 71 XXVIII .
Steam-point apparatus ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
72 XXIX .
Comparison-bath for range 80 ' to 200 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 73 VOL. CXCIV.\#151 ; A 253 .
13.3.1900 .
Page .
XXX .
Preliminary determinations with gas thermometer with glass reservoir ... .
74 a. Capacity of the reservoir ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
74 b. Coefficient of expansion of " verre-dur " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
74 c. Pressure coefficient of the reservoir ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
75 d.Determination of volume of " dead space " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
75 e. Determination of the " index error " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
77 / .
Corrections of scale and vernier ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 78 XXXI .
Calculation of the temperatures on the gas scale ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
78 XXXII .
Corrections relating to the " dead space " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
79 XXXIII .
Method of preparing the nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 80 XXXIV .
Determination of the initial pressure ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
80 XXXV .
Determination of the coefficient of expansion of nitrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 82 XXXVI .
and XXXVII .
Comparisons between the platinum thermometers and the nitrogen thermometer up to 200 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
85 XXXVIII .
Comparisons between the platinum thermometers and the nitrogen thermometer between 250 ' and 460 ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
87 XXXIX .
New gas thermometer with porcelain reservoir ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
89 a. Capacity of the reservoir ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
90 b. Coefficient of expansion of porcelain ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
90 c. Pressure coefficient of the reservoir ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
92 d. Determination of the volume of the " dead space " ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
92 XL .
First determinations with the porcelain gas thermometer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
93 XLI .
Explanation of the tables of results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
97 XLII .
Determination of the boiling-point of sulphur ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 97 XLIII .
Reduction of results to the normal scale ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..101 XL IV .
Conclusion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..104 Appendix I. Explanation of tables ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 112 Numerical results of comparisons ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..114 Tables for reduction of observations with platinum thermometers .
131 Appendix II .
Recalculation of the boiling-point of sulphur experiments ... .
132 I. Introduction .
In a paper entitled " The Practical Measurement of Temperature/ ' read before the Poyal Society in 1886 , Professor Callendar drew attention to the method of measuring temperature based on the determination of the electrical resistance of a platinum wire .
He showed that the method was capable of a very general application , and that the platinum resistance thermometer was an instrument giving consistent and accurate results over a very wide temperature range .
Callendar pointed out that if P0 denote the resistance of the spiral of a particular platinum thermometer at 0 ' , and Pi its resistance at 100 , we may establish for the particular wire a temperature scale , which we may call the scale of platinum temperatures , such that if P be the resistance at any temperature T on the air-scale , this temperature on the platinum scale will be X 100 ' .
For this quantity , COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Callendar employs the symbol pt , its value depending on the sample of platinum chosen .
In order to reduce to the standard scale of temperature the indications of any platinum thermometer , it is necessary to know the law connecting T and pt .
These are , of course , identical at 0 ' and 100 ' , but the determination of the remainder of the curve expressing the relationship between them is a matter for experiment .
Our present knowledge of this relation depends mainly on the investigations of Callendar , and Griffiths .
The following is a list of the principal papers published bearing on the subject of platinum thermometry:\#151 ; Callendar ... ... ... ... . .
M ... ... ... .
M ... ... ... .
M ... ... ... .
Griffiths . . . . . .
D ... ... ... ... .
n ... ... ... ... .
M ... ... ... ... .
M ... ... ... ... .
55 ... ... ... ... .
Callendar and Griffiths Carey Foster ... .
Heycock and Neville 5 5 5 5 Griffiths and Clark . .
Clark ... ... ... ... ... ... Olszewski ... ... ... ... . .
Dewar and Fleming . .
55 5 5 Hamilton Dickson . . .
55 .
D. K. Morris ... ... ... . .
Waidner and Mallory .
Day ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Chree ... ... ... ... ... .
'Phil .
Trans./ A , 1887 .
'Phil .
Mag./ July , 1891 .
, , July ?
1892 .
, , February , 1899 .
'Brit .
Assn .
Reports , ' 1890 .
'Phil .
Trans./ A , 1891 .
" 1893 .
' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' vol. 55 , 1894 .
'Nature/ November , 1895 .
, , February , 1896 .
' Phil. Trans./ A , 1891 .
' Nature , ' August , 1894 .
' Chem. Soc. Journ. , ' 1890 .
" " 1895 .
'Phil .
Mag. , ' December , 1892 .
'Electrician , ' vol. 38 .
'Phil .
Mag./ August , 1895 .
, , September , 1893 .
, , July , 1895 .
, , December , 1897 .
, , June , 1898 .
, , September , 1897 .
, , August , 1897 .
, , August , 1897 .
' Nature , ' July , 1898 .
The work of Callendar established for a particular sample of pure platinum the relation \lt ; z = t-^ = sI7^Y-^1 _\100/ 100J over the range 0C to 600 ' .
For Callendar 's wire the value of was about 1*57 .
Subsequent experiments by Callendar and Griffiths showed that the values of 8 for the different samples of platinum they examined varied greatly with their purity , yet , provided that the percentage of impurity were small , the formula given above held true .
They found from their experiments that the T \#151 ; curve was always a parabola , and that , therefore , to establish the whole curve showing the divergence of the two scales , it was sufficient to know d for three fixed points .
For two of these , viz. , 0 ' and 100 ' , d is by definition zero .
For the third point , for reasons indicated in their paper , Griffiths and Callendar chose the boiling-point of sulphur , and subsequently made a new determination of this point by an air thermometer , finding as their most probable value 444c,53 , the pressure being 760 millims. This value , which is nearly four degrees lower than that previously obtained by Regnault , is the one which has been generally adopted in work with the platinum thermometer .
As further evidence in confirmation of this conclusion Griffiths points out that , if this number be taken for the boiling-point of sulphur in the calculation of the values obtained by him for the boiling and freezing points of a number of substances on which he experimented , the results for most of the substances concord better with their accepted values as determined by other observers , than if Regnatjlt 's value , 448''34 , be adopted .
Many of these accepted numbers quoted in Griffiths ' paper are given to hundredths of a degree , but closer examination of the original papers in most cases reveals the fact that the reductions to the normal scale and the various corrections of the thermometers employed , if made at all , are , to say the least , very uncertain .
Further , we see no a priori reason why , in Griffiths ' experiments , the results with certain of the substances employed should be rejected from consideration , as there does not appear sufficient ground for supposing that the experimental error in these cases was higher than the average .
Substantially then our knowledge of temperatures , deduced by means of the platinum thermometer , depends solely on the correctness of the conclusions of Griffiths and Callendar :\#151 ; ( 1 ) That the boiling-point of sulphur under 760 millims. pressure is 444''53 .
( 2 ) That the curve representing the divergence of the platinum and air scales is a parabola .
II .
The Investigation for the Kew Committee .
In recent years the platinum thermometer has been employed by various observers , and their experience has tended to confirm the view that it could be relied upon to give constant indications at a given temperature .
It consequently appeared to the Kew Observatory Committee that it might be possible to use this instrument as a means of referring measurements of temperature to the scale of the gas thermometer adopted as an International standard by the Comite International des Poids et Mesures , and thus to extend their means of accurately testing thermometers sent to COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
them for verification at temperatures outside the range 0 ' to 100 ' .
With this view they deemed it desirable to obtain an independent investigation into the principles and methods of platinum thermometry , and they consequently procured a complete equipment of the necessary apparatus , which was installed at the observatory under the supervision of Mr. Griffiths in a special building .
As the general results of the experiments made with this apparatus seemed promising , the Kew Committee approached the Comite International des Poids et Mesures , with a view to securing their co-operation , and ultimately it was arranged that a direct comparison , extending over as wide a range as possible , should be made between some platinum thermometers belonging to Kew and the Standard instruments at the International Laboratory at the Pavilion de Breteuil , at Sevres , near Paris .
The present paper is the outcome of this investigation , in which it may be understood that one of us ( C. ) is responsible for the gas and mercury thermometry involved , while the working of the platinum thermometers devolved on the other ( H. ) .
In it will also be found an account of the means by which the range of the gas thermometer employed was extended upwards from 200 ' , the limit of the Bureau 's previous experiments , for the purpose of this investigation .
III .
The First Form of Platinum Thermometer Besistance-Bridge .
As a full account of the first platinum thermometer apparatus acquired by Kew Observatory has been published by Griffiths ( 'Nature , ' Nov. 14 , 1895 ) , under whose supervision it was standardized , it is unnecessary here to give more than a general description of its chief features .
A diagrammatic representation of the connections is given in fig. 1 .
Fig. 1 .
Q Resistances of bridge .
R and S Proportional coils .
C Compensator of thermometer .
AB Bridge-wire .
P Thermometer spiral .
G Galvanometer .
VOL. CXCIV.\#151 ; A. G Here R and S represent the proportional coils of about five ohms each , adjusted to exact equality .
P is the thermometer coil connected by two long flexible copper ends to the box terminals Px and P2 .
The wires in the stem of the thermometer leading to the coil are of thick platinum , the coil itself being of a very pure sample of platinum *006 inch in diameter .
Down the stem run also a second pair of leads made as similar as possible to the coil leads , but connected together at their lower extremities and having no contact with the coil .
This loop , connected at CA in the figure in the opposite arm of the bridge to the thermometer itself , serves to compensate the changes in resistance of the thermometer leads proper , due to variations of stem temperature .
The four copper wires joining PjP2 , CA to the thermometer are plaited together into a single cable , so that temperature changes throughout their length may affect them all equally .
Q represents the nine platinum-silver resistances of the box connected to one another in series , the lowest coil having a resistance of 5 box-units ( 1 box-unit = *01 ohm ) , and the rest forming a series 10 , 20 , 40 , 80 , up to 640 units the largest coil .
An extra coil of 100 units is used to determine the fundamental interval of the usual type of thermometer , whose change of resistance between 0 ' and 100 ' is 100 box-units , i.e. , 1 ohm .
A platinum silver bridge-wire , AB , provided with a scale of millimetres , furnishes the means of balancing exactly any resistance of P. A special form of slider is employed for the contact between the bridge-wire and a precisely similar wire stretched parallel to it , connected to the galvanometer .
The exact position of the transverse wire forming the contact-piece is indicated by a vernier by which *01 millim. may be estimated .
This symmetrical arrangement of two similar wires is found to diminish the thermoelectric effects at the movable contact .
Coils of 20 and 100 ohms are provided as resistances in the battery circuit , and also a " tenth " shunt for the galvanometer .
The top of the resistance-box is of a special quality of marble of good insulating properties .
The whole is enclosed in a double-walled tank holding a considerable mass of water , which is kept at a constant temperature near 20 ' , by a regulator controlling a small gas flame .
A delicate thermometer suspended in air in the interior of the box indicates the coil-temperature , and the whole of the upper surface of the box is protected against radiation and air currents by a glass cover similar to a balance case .
IV .
Experiments with the First Apparatus .
From the time of the acquisition of this apparatus determinations were repeatedly made of the constants of each of the platinum thermometers , in order to test the permanence of the whole arrangement under ordinary working conditions , also to ascertain how the accuracy obtained was influenced by alterations in the external COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
conditions of experiment , such as changes in the laboratory-temperature , the different treatment of the apparatus by different observers , \amp ; c. These trials , which were continued over a considerable period , showed that one of the disadvantages of this form of apparatus is the almost inevitable difference of " lag " between the mercury thermometer employed to indicate the coil-temperature , and the platinum-silver coils themselves , which in this case hang loosely in air .
From this cause , especially when the box-temperature is changing rapidly , some uncertainty as to the coil-temperatures is introduced .
During the winter , when the temperature of the laboratory often fell very considerably during the night , and also in summer when it rose to over 20 ' , the temperature of the coil-space changed rapidly during the daytime , although the regulator nevertheless maintained the water in the tank very near 20 ' throughout , showing that the protection afforded by the glass cover of the resistance-box was insufficient under the prevailing conditions .
The measurements made showed conclusively that in this case the coils followed temperature changes faster than the mercury thermometer selected to indicate the coil-temperature .
The temperature-coefficient of the alloy of which the coils are constructed is '00026 and that of the platinum wire of the thermometers is '00386 ; if then we wish to determine a platinum-temperature to '001 ' ( whatever the resistance of the thermometer chosen ) we must know the coil-temperature to '015 ' .
Therefore , unless great precautions be taken with the mercury thermometer , it is difficult to see how the measurements of coil-temperature can be sufficiently trustworthy .
Griffiths in his later experience has got rid of the first-mentioned difficulty while retaining platinum-silver as the resistance metal , by immersing the coils in a well-stirred bath of highly insulating oil , into which the mercury thermometer is placed directly , thus rendering the measurement of the coil-temperature much more certain.* V. Construction of the New Apparatus .
As it was anticipated that the experiments at Sevres might occupy some time , and it was not thought advisable that the Observatory should be deprived altogether of the use of platinum thermometers for a long period by this apparatus being taken to France , a new resistance-box was ordered specially for this work .
The construction of this box was entrusted by the Committee to Messrs. Crompton and Co. , Limited , and its behaviour has on the whole been very satisfactory .
In view of the fact that it was not easy to maintain the platinum-silver coils at a sufficiently uniform temperature winter and summer by any simple means , and in view of the difficulty previously mentioned as to the indication of the true coil-temperature with sufficient accuracy by a mercurial thermometer , it was decided in * A description of Griffiths ' subsequent improvements on the original Kew apparatus , here described , is given by G. M. Clark ( ' Electrician , ' vol. 38 , p. 747 ) .
44 DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON A this second apparatus to obviate the necessity of very accurate measurement of the coil-temperature by using one of the new alloys of very small temperature-coefficient , manganine being the one chosen .
The expediency of this change was subsequently emphasised by the fact that we found it was inadvisable to artificially heat the room at Breteuil in which the comparisons were made , on account of the uncertainties Fig. 2 .
I T. 1 .
I attending the measurement of the temperatures of the various mercury columns of the gas thermometer .
During the year and a-half the experiments lasted , the room temperature varied from about 4 ' to 23 ' , which would have rendered accurate artificial control of the box-temperature extremely difficult .
Since in the first resistance-box the thermoelectric effects between the various wires and terminals in the circuit ( in which several different metals are used ) were COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
sometimes considerable , copper was substituted throughout for brass in the new box , the only metals in circuit being copper and manganine .
For the platinum-silver bridge-wire was substituted a manganine strip heavily gilt , placed on edge and stretched between two adjustable clips .
The slider is provided with a fine adjustment , which can he manipulated from the outside of the box , without risk of heating the galvanometer-contact by repeatedly approaching it with the hand .
As in Mr. Griffiths ' latest form , the terminals project outside the glass case .
The top of the box is formed of a heavy slab of white marble 75 centims. long , 30 centims. wide , and 3 centims. thick .
For the ordinary form of plug-contacts are substituted heavily gilt forks of forged copper , which can be clamped by powerful steel screws over tongues projecting upwards from the blocks to which the coils are fastened .
A general plan of the resistance-box is shown in Plate 1 and the details of one of the contacts in fig. 2 .
VI .
The Resistance-coils .
The general scheme of the box connections is almost the same as the one previously described , and may be traced in fig. 1 .
For the winding , fixing , and annealing of the manganine coils the method described in the official publication of the Physikalisch-Technische Reichsanstalt at Charlottenburg was carefully followed .
The specimen of wire used was selected after various tests from several furnished by Messrs. W. T. Glover and Co. , of Salford , and was double silk covered No. 26 S.W.G. The diameter of several pieces cut from different parts of the bobbin only varied within very narrow limits .
In order to simplify the application of the temperature correction , the same wire was employed for all the coils except the two lowest .
These were of strip manganine , and being originally cut off too wide , could be adjusted till accurate by clipping the edge with shears .
VII .
Coil Values adopted .
In the Callendar-Griffiths resistance-boxes the coils are arranged on the binary scale , and the value of each is determined in terms of the sum of those below it together with a certain length of bridge-wire .
Although Mr. Griffiths gives evidence for the utility of this arrangement in general work , it was thought more important , for the purposes of this research , to have several independent checks in the determination of each coil-value , than that the maximum resistance , measurable with a given number of box-coils , should be as high as possible .
The thirteen coils were therefore arranged as follows , the values being expressed in ohms :\#151 ; 40 20 10 4 3 2 1 A B C D E F G *02 -05 N M .1 *2 '3 *4 L K J H Several of these values are the ordinary ones adopted for standard resistances , so that with a suitable arrangement comparisons with a standard could be made from time to time .
Coils of these values are also much easier to measure off accurately than the larger multiples of '01 ohm on the binary scale .
We will revert to this question as to the best arrangement of coil-values in the discussion of the method of standardization adopted .
The resistance box is fitted with three interchangeable bridge-strips of different resistances , on which a change of '01 ohm in the box-coils causes a displacement of the slider , to restore the balance , of 10 , 5 , and 2 centims. respectively .
The slider is fitted with a vernier giving -^yth millim. directly , it being considered unnecessary , perhaps indeed impossible , to determine the position of the knife edge forming the contact to a greater accuracy than this , without taking extraordinary precautions with the scale , the slider , and the bed in which it travels .
With the three bridge-strips the resistance corresponding to a movement of one millim. is *0001 , '0002 , *0005 ohm , respectively .
The strip of medium resistance was the one employed exclusively during this research .
The slider is of the form employed on the best potentiometers , and can be displaced either by hand or by a fine-adjustment screw with large milled head , projecting beyond the outside of the case .
This screw moves longitudinally a rectangular frame carrying the slider ; this frame is also capable of lateral movement in the massive brass casting which surrounds the bridge-wire , and tends to protect it from injury , and to equalise its temperature from end to end .
The return contact from the slider to the galvanometer was originally made by means of this movable frame , but from some unexplained cause , apparently not thermoelectric , this led to unsteadiness of the galvanometer zero.# Coupling the various parts of the framework together electrically by flexible copper wires did not remove the difficulty , and ultimately it was found best to have a silk-covered return lead attached to the spring contact on the slider , and to cut off the frame from all electrical connection with the apparatus .
The marble slab forming the top of the resistance-box was supported from the inside of the tank by an iron framework , carrying racks for the coils , the sides being left quite open , and all the coils easily accessible for inspection at any time .
The whole was placed in a very heavy double-walled copper trough holding about 50 litres of water , and was covered by a doubly-hinged lid , glazed with thick bevelled plate * In these experiments , in which a Griffiths ' thermoelectric key ( described later ) is used , in the normal position of the key the galvanometer circuit remains made .
When the platinum thermometer is not changing rapidly in temperature , the stability of the galvanometer zero is a good criterion , from which much may be gathered as to the working state of the bridge , and the magnitude of the thermo-currents present .
We have reason to believe from our own experience that the use of a well-constructed key of this type considerably facilitates the carrying out of low-resistance measurements , where high accuracy is desired .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
glass .
Provision was made in the outer space of the tank for a regulator and heating arrangement underneath .
This was , however , not used during the present experiments .
Suitable thermometers indicated the temperature of the water in the outer tank , and two sensitive ones , divided to tenths of a degree with thin bulbs and their stems bent at right angles , indicated the temperature of the internal coil-space .
IX .
Galvanometer Shunts and Battery Resistances .
The resistance-box was provided , as in the Callendar-Griffiths type , with a set of galvanometer shunts and a series of battery resistances of 20 , 50 , 100 , and 500 ohms .
It was afterwards found a great advantage to have a more exact adjustment of the battery current , and for this purpose a subsidiary three-dial box , working up to 1,000 ohms , was provided .
Previous experience at Kew had shown the occurrence of differences in the point of balance , according as the battery-current was in one direction or the other ; it was found that the difference between the readings with the current in the two directions generally increased gradually during the first quarter of an hour on commencing the observations , and was greater the greater the intensity of the battery current .
In order to be able to study , and if possible to eliminate this cause of uncertainty , we placed in the battery circuit of the new apparatus a high-insulation reversing switch .
The working of this switch was at first unsatisfactory , but was subsequently perfected by short-circuiting the rubbing contacts at the pivots by flexible brass strips , and covering the five contact studs with thin platinum plates .
X. Battery Power Employed .
The battery used throughout the experiments consisted of two dry-cells of the Obach type , obtained from Messrs. Siemens ; we ascertained that the E.M.F. of the two cells was practically constant throughout and about 2*8 volts , and that the internal resistance of the two in series did not rise to more than 1 ohm , changing by a quantity quite negligible in comparison with the large resistance always added in the battery circuit .
XI .
Thermoelectric Key .
For the completion of the different circuits a Griffiths ' thermoelectric key was employed , as in the first Kew apparatus .
The essential feature of this key consists in the addition to the ordinary form of double bridge-key of a lever so arranged that when the key is released the galvanometer circuit remains made .
Thus a simple depression of the key first breaks the circuit of the galvanometer , then makes that of the battery , and finally remakes the circuit of the galvanometer .
The key we used was somewhat modified from the original pattern , which , being mounted on wood , was not found to be quite perfect as regards insulation .
The new key , which along with the thermometers and nearly all the accessory apparatus was obtained from the Cambridge Scientific Instrument Company , Limited , is shown in fig. 3 , and in the general plan of the auxiliary apparatus ( fig. 4 ) .
It is provided with Fig. 3 .
nl Fig. 4 .
J ' To bridge terminal To g\amp ; Lva.nomeber \#151 ; HUNDREDS UNITS ebonite pillar insulation , and the four levers are rearranged in their order , the two forming the galvanometer-contacts being supported from the same pillar one under the other .
All the contacts in the key are of platinum .
An adjustable steel spring under the topmost lever helps to hold it up against the contact screw above , thus ensuring good contact in the galvanometer-circuit when the key is released .
XII .
Accessories to the Resistance-Bridge .
The battery , reversing-switch , key , and external resistances were all enclosed in a wooden case provided with a glass lid , the necessary handles for the adjustments and for working the keys , projecting through the sides , and the whole being kept nearly COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
air-tight by suitable protections .
This seemingly unimportant detail we found to be a great advantage , as in the damp weather , experienced during part of the experiments , the insulation of exposed parts always required considerable attention .
The battery was insulated from the wooden case by gutta-percha strip , and after this was added , the insulation resistance of the whole apparatus , when all was kept dry , was practically perfect .
XIII .
Galvanometer .
For the first experiments the galvanometer employed was one of the pattern described by Dubois and Rubens in ' Wied .
Annalen , ' vol. 48 , p. 236 , lent to us by Professor Schuster .
This is a Thomson four-coil instrument with connections so arranged that its bobbins may be coupled to give an internal resistance of 80 , 20 , or 5 ohms .
The magnet system and mirror weighed together 0*2 gram .
The deflections were observed from about three metres distance by a large Steinheil telescope .
Much trouble was experienced in finding a foundation for the galvanometer sufficiently free from vibration .
After several unsuccessful experiments in which we attempted to insulate the galvanometer with rubber blocks , a special pillar was erected independent of the floor .
We found , however , that , even when resting on this , the vibration of the magnet-system , caused by heavy traffic on the Versailles road , was sufficient at intervals to prevent any satisfactory observations being made .
At this juncture Professor Carey Foster was appealed to , and through him Mr. II .
K. Gray , of the India-rubber , Gutta-percha , and Telegraph Works Company , of Silvertown , very kindly came to our aid by sending us a reproduction of an arrangement he had employed at the works to cut off vibrations from delicate instruments .
It consisted of a brass plate forming a platform from which the galvanometer is suspended , the whole being slung by long india-rubber tubes from a wall-bracket above .
To diminish the effect of air currents we added a damping arrangement consisting of a vertical metal cross with attached horizontal vanes , plunging into a vessel standing on the concrete pillar and containing a thick oil .
The galvanometer and suspension were also completely surrounded by a paper screen extending upwards to the ceiling , provided with suitable openings for making the adjustments .
The india-rubber suspension arrangement , when once the tubes were properly stretched , worked perfectly satisfactorily till the winter , when , presumably under the influence of the low temperature of about 4 ' or 5 ' , such a change took place in the elasticity that we were obliged to seek a substitute for the india-rubber , less influenced by climatic conditions .
We at length managed to construct from steel wire , 1 millim. in diameter , long spiral springs of the requisite strength , which have served the purpose admirably , and at the same time have shown a comparatively small variation of elasticity with temperature .
The arrangement of the suspension in its modified form is shown in figs. 5 and 6 .
VOL. CXCIY.\#151 ; A. H COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
51 With the comparatively heavy magnet-system of this first galvanometer , we were obliged , in order to obtain the requisite sensibility , to work with a relatively longtime of vibration , which was not convenient for rapid work , and it was ultimately found necessary to so modify our galvanometer that the necessary sensitiveness should be obtained with a time of swing not exceeding six or seven seconds .
We therefore had recourse to the ingenious type of magnet-system devised by M. Broca , of the Ecole de Medecine , Paris , and described by him in the ' Journal de Physique , ' February , 1897 .
In its latest form this consists of two vertical hollow magnets , having at their middle points a north and south pole respectively .
When the two similar but oppositely magnetised needles are fixed strictly parallel to one another , the system thus formed is perfectly astatic in a uniform field , since the strength of the pole at the centre of each magnet is equal to the sum of the poles at its ends , and further the astaticism is not affected by even complete loss of magnetism in one of the magnets .
M. Broca was kind enough to lend us a galvanometer of the type described in his paper , and a magnet-system made by himself .
This instrument is the one shown in the sketches of the galvanometer and suspension in figs. 5 and 6 .
We had not the means of accurately measuring the sensitiveness of this instrument by one of the ordinary processes , but ascertained that , with a time of swing of five seconds , the scale deflection , for a want of balance of the bridge corresponding to *001 ' , was about 0'5 millim. This was with a system carrying a mirror large enough to give a bright image in the telescope , readable without difficulty in broad daylight .
XIV .
Thermometer Leads .
The thermometer leads were of stranded copper equal to No. 17 S.W.G. , and about seven metres long .
The resistance of the four separate wires was carefully equalised before fixing on the copper end-pieces used to make the contacts , each loop , P , P2 , C\C2 , having a resistance of *15 ohm at 16 ' .
After nearly two years continual use the two loops differed in resistance by '0003 ohm , a change of only about one-fifth per cent , of the whole .
The connections between the resistance-box leads and thermometer were made by means of the special alloy employed by Mr. Griffiths , and from our own experience we can strongly recommend these joints as very trustworthy and easy to make .
XV .
The Platinum Thermometers .
The resistance of all except one of the platinum thermometers belonging to the original Kew installation was such that their change of resistance between 0 ' and 100 ' was almost exactly one ohm .
Though convenient for high range work , this type of thermometer is hardly suitable for measurements of the highest accuracy at lower temperatures , in consequence of the relatively considerable effect on the results of H 2 small variations in the plug-contact resistances .
On this account two new thermometers of higher resistance were ordered from the Cambridge Instrument Co. ; their fundamental intervals were five and ten ohms respectively .
They are designated in this paper K. 8 and K. 9 .
Owing to the shape of the various baths in which the comparisons with the platinum thermometers were made , and more especially to the difficulty of keeping dry the air within the tubes of thermometers of the old form , we were obliged to modify the form of the " head " of these principal thermometers .
In the reconstruction the whole thermometer was arranged so as to be practically air-tight , and the contacts were rearranged in such a manner that although the four wires all left the thermometer at the same side , yet the " coil " and " compensator " arms were perfectly symmetrical .
At the same time the number of contacts where thermoelectric effects could arise was reduced as far as possible , by suppressing the brass terminals and making the connection between the platinum leads and the copper fusible metal cups directly by stout copper wires , all joints being made quite secure with hard solder .
Though this form of thermometer-head is a little more difficult to construct , we find when the four contact cups are surrounded by a thin shield of polished metal to keep off air-currents , that the thermo-effects , almost invariably present to some extent in the old form of thermometer , especially when rapid temperature changes are progressing , are almost entirely absent .
Another feature is the readiness with which the glass tube can be freed from internal moisture by simply Fig. 7 .
connecting the small stopcock on the .ebonite plate alternately to a vacuum pump and to an arrangement for supplying dry air , while the whole thermometer is at a high temperature .
This we find to be of great importance for accurate work below 100 ' .
A sketch of the thermometer in its improved form is given in fig. 7 .
XYI .
Standardization of the Resistance-Box .
The standardization of the resistance-box consisted in the determination :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Of the calibration corrections of the bridge-wire ; ( 2 ) Of the values of the resistance coils in terms of one another ; ( 3 ) Of the temperature-coefficient of the coils .
XVII .
Calibration of the .
As has previously been mentioned , the cylindrical bridge-wire employed in the COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Callendar-Griffiths box was replaced by a manganine strip , cut from a large sheet .
Although this strip had been carefully adjusted by filing to a very fairly uniform resistance along its whole length , yet , from the method of its construction , we anticipated the possibility of there being in some places more sudden variations of resistance than were likely to occur in a wire of a hard material like platinum-silver or platinum-iridium carefully drawn down to a certain diameter .
We determined therefore to substitute for the usual Gay-Lussac calibration a more complete one with several different " columns .
" As it was not always possible to take vernier-readings with the slider close up to the ends , we decided to employ only the middle 48 centims. , and to obtain the calibration corrections for each 2 centims. over this range .
We are indebted to Dr. Benoit for his advice on the best method to adopt .
He recommended that the whole length should be divided into two parts , and that for each part a " complete " calibration should be made for every 4 centims. , involving the employment of " columns " of 20 , 16 , 12 , 8 , and 4 centims. , and that afterwards the intermediate 2 centim. points should be determined by subdivision of each interval of 4 centims. into two parts .
The necessary conversions of the separate corrections found to one system were made exactly as in the calibration of a mercury thermometer or a divided scale .
Fig. 8 .
The method adopted for making the necessary measurements is described in a paper presented to the Boyal Society in 1896 by one of us ; the scheme of the connections is shown in fig. 8 .
Between the terminals PiP2 of the resistance-box is connected an auxiliary adjustable resistance , having four sets of coils made of the same sample of manganine as those of the bridge proper , and also a small U-shaped trough containing mercury .
By means of this appliance , a plan of which is shown in fig. 9 , the resistance between Fig. 9 .
OHMS CKM n-\- \#151 ; \#151 ; j. .
*.--- DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
the terminals PjPo can be quickly adjusted to any value between zero and 100 ohms .
In the opposite arm of the bridge , between the terminals 0,0 .
, are inserted a fixed resistance of 0'1 ohm and the calibrating apparatus .
This consists of two massive copper blocks of rectangular form , mounted on an insulating base , each pierced by two holes about a centimetre in diameter , which are well amalgamated and partly filled with mercury .
Into one pair of holes are inserted two round copper pillars , across which is soldered a piece of thin manganine strip , and into the other pair of holes the lower ends of a thick U-shaped copper rod .
A sketch of the calibrator is given in fig. 10 .
A number of strips of different resistances , each mounted between copper pillars as shown , are first prepared , the values chosen being equivalent to 2 , 4 , 8 , 12 , 16 , 20 , and 24 centims. movement of the slider .
The calibration is commenced by placing the contact-maker to the division 24 to the left , and one of the strips in position on the calibrator .
The resistance in the opposite arm of the bridge is then adjusted so that no galvanometer deflection is obtained , and the exact position of the slider noted .
The manganine strip remaining untouched , the copper short-circuiting piece is now placed across between the two remaining mercury cups , and the slider is then moved to the right till the balance is again restored .
In order to eliminate the effects of any gradual temperature changes , the process is repeated , the readings being made in the reverse order , a similar pair of readings being made for each successive position along the bridge-wire .
The results of several series of observations made on different days with each strip are then combined , and the whole set treated precisely as an ordinary calibration of a length or volume , and the curve of corrections prepared .
It was interesting to compare the results of the complete calibration with those deduced from the observations with the two-centim .
column alone , and from two test calibrations made by means of the coils M and N. The general agreement of the different results was found to be satisfactory .
XVIII .
The Resistance Coils .
The manganine coils were annealed , in accordance with the recommendations of the German Reichsanstalt , by heating them to about 140 ' for some time and allowing them to cool slowly .
This was done in a closed electrically heated space in which the temperature could be regulated at will , and the cooliug could be made as slow as desired .
The ends of each coil were hard-soldered to copper tags of rectangular form previous to the final annealing , these tags being afterwards firmly fastened by ordinary solder to the stout tinned copper leads connected to the contact-blocks .
The coils were wound on glass tubes 3 centims. in diameter , which were fastened by metal strips to wooden cross-pieces supported from the iron framework of the resistance-box .
These tubes were coated with three thin layers of shellac varnish before the coils were wound , and after the winding the wire itself was also well varnished to improve the insulation and to protect it from oxidation during the annealing .
We understand that the standard manganine coils issued by the Reichsanstalt are not tested till a year after their construction , but that after this lapse of time the gradual changes they exhibit are very small .
In our case we were however obliged to begin work with the resistance-box before the coils had been properly aged , and therefore were not surprised at alterations in their values , particularly during the first few months .
We regret that at the commencement of our work we had not at our disposal the means of comparing the coils with an invariable standard , but could only obtain their relative values in terms of the mean bridge-wire unit , which was even more likely to change slightly than the coils themselves ; on this account we are unable to give details of the progressive alterations in their absolute values , and can only indicate the means we adopted to prevent these changes influencing the accuracy of our temperature-measurements .
The changes were , as was to be expected , most appreciable at the beginning of the work .
The first standardization was made as soon as the apparatus was got into order and fitted up at Breteuil , and immediately following this came the comparisons of K. 8 with the mercury thermometers .
As soon as this series of comparisons was completed a second standardization was at once made .
The individual observations of the thermometric fixed points and comparisons were then reduced with both the earlier and new coil-values .
At a later stage it was found that , although the absolute value of the mean bridge-wire unit had slightly altered , yet the values of the box coils relatively to one another , with the exception of one of the very low resistances constructed of strip manganine , had not^ changed by an amount large enough to make the two determinations differ materially .
It was easy to allow for such small variations as did occur by taking into consideration the date of each experiment and assuming that the change between the two standardizations was proportional to the time which had elapsed since the first .
Not counting a preliminary series of observations , four complete standardizations were made in all during the course of the work with the thermometers , and we think that no serious errors were introduced into the results by the alterations in the relative values of the resistance-coils .
Further particulars as to the changes in the values of the different coils are given on p. 5 8 after the description of the method adopted for the standardization .
For the comparison of the coil-values with one another the following plan was adopted .
Firstly , the values of the smaller coils M and N were determined directly in terms of the bridge-wire by the same process as was employed in the calibration .
Next , each higher coil in turn was balanced against the adjustable manganine resistance previously described , which in each case was so adjusted that the position of the contact-maker on the bridge-wire was in the neighbourhood of the zero of the COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS scale .
The coil in question was then changed for some combination of those of lower values giving the same ( or very nearly the same ) nominal resistance , and the outside resistance remaining untouched , the contact-maker was again adjusted to equilibrium .
The distance between the first and second positions of the slider is a measure of the difference between the two sets of coils , expressed in mean bridge-wire divisions .
The process being repeated for all the coils and the different combinations equivalent to each , the results are collected into a set of equations of the following form* :\#151 ; A \#151 ; B \#151 ; C \#151 ; D \#151 ; E \#151 ; F \#151 ; G = \amp ; c. D _ E - G = D - E -H-J-K-L = a , \amp ; e. , \amp ; c. As previously mentioned , the scheme of coil-values adopted was such as to permit of independent values for most of the coils being obtained in a single standardization , the difference between these several values being a measure of the accuracy obtained .
For the standardization we adopted the same scheme in the four sets of determinations of the coil-values taken at different times throughout the research .
We ascertained during the experiments , but too late to make any change , that the values chosen for the higher coils were not such as were best adapted for giving a number of inter-dependent relations , and on this account the control only extended upwards to the fourth largest coil .
We give below the residual errors obtained in one of the standardizations by substitution of the values found by least squares for each coil in the respective equations of condition , suppressing the first three coils for which the control was absent , f * The method of forming these equations will be readily seen on reference to the table of coil-values given previously on p. 45 .
f In the opinion of Dr. Benoit , whose kindness in giving us his advice with regard to the methods of standardization we here gratefully acknowledge , the best way to obtain in one standardization the requisite number of equations from which the relative values of such a system of coils can be satisfactorily determined , is to adopt a system similar to that employed for standard sets of weights .
After careful consideration of these we think the following scheme for a set of fifteen coils would be almost an ideal one .
Without counting combinations only involving changes in coils , whose resistance is smali compared to the total in any comparison , we should have in this system several controls for each coil-value 20 ' 20 " 10 ' 10 " 5 2 ' 2 " 1 ' .05 " -05 ' T *2 " -2 ' -5 1 " The system of about 44 equations of condition to determine the unknowns , given by the different direct comparisons , can either be divided into groups and solved thus , or may be solved as a whole , which , if Gauss ' method be followed , can be done without undue labour , as the coefficients of the various terms remain small whole numbers till near the end of the resolution .
VOL. CXCIV.\#151 ; A. I Residual error in bridge-wire units .
D-E -H-J-K-L - 0-0158 D -F-G-H-J-K-L = no + 0-0022 D - E - G = % 4- 0-0136 E - F - G = + 0-0087 F-G-H-J-K-L = n5 + 0-0000 G - H - J - K - M = % + 0-0071 H \#151 ; J \#151 ; L \#151 ; n^ + 0-0024 H - K - L - M - N = - 0-0024 J - K - L = iii ) + 0-0024 K - L - M - N = ?
i j o 4- 0*0008 L - M - N = nn - 0-0110 M \#151 ; N = ?
i12 + 0-0002 N = - 0-0132 It will be observed that the largest residual is only 0'0158 mean bridge-wire unit , or about 0'00003 ohm , showing that when all the contacts are kept clean the uncertainties due to variability of the contact-resistance are exceedingly small , and that the form of contact-maker employed is extremely constant in its action .
The largest residual observed in any standardization was 0'00008 ohm , and the average was about a quarter of this amount .
XIX .
Changes in th Resistance-Coils .
In order to give an idea of the magnitude of the changes which took place during the work , we give in the following table the values obtained for the wire coils in the first and last standardizations expressed in mean bridge-wire units .
In the fifth column is shown the change which took place in each coil , not taking into account the variation of unit .
The figures were obtained by dividing the values in the fourth column for the several coils by the corresponding values in the third .
The absolute magnitude of the changes cannot be deduced with certainty , but from other experiments made by one of us with manganine wires it seemed probable that the total change in any coil is in reality a combination of two distinct effects , the one being a change in the specific resistance of the wire throughout its entire length , and the other an effect confined to a small length at each end , which was very strongly heated during the operation of hard-soldering it to the copper tags .
Examination of the appended results shows that the change in the value of the lower coils is relatively much greater than in the case of the higher ones .
This is in accordance with what we should expect , if the statement above were true , and both changes tended in the same direction .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Nominal value in ohms .
Value No. 1 . .
Value No , 4 .
4 1 A 40 18761T7 18763-71 1-00014 B 20 9391-12 9393-25 1-00023 C 10 4697-67 4698-80 1-00024 nr D 4 1872-63 1874-01 1-00074 Wound on glass E 3 1406-88 1407-39 1-00036 tubes .
F 2 939-276 939-562 1-00030 G 1 462-770 463-047 1-00060 H .4 192-719 192-880 1-00083 1 J .3 146-367 146-610 1-00166 l Hanging free K .2 99-444 99-616 1-00172 f in air .
L T !
48-498 48-627 1-00265 1 XX .
Determination of the Temperature-Coefficient the Coils .
Preliminary determinations had shown that the temperature-coefficient of the wire used for the coils was extremely small , and had we been able to keep the box-temperature anywhere near constant we would hardly have needed to take it into account at all .
As , however , considerable variations of the temperature of the room were inevitable , as previously explained , a method had to be devised to determine the coefficient with considerable accuracy .
It had been previously found by one of us that the annealing process , to which the wire must be subjected to minimise subsequent time-changes in its resistance , has an appreciable effect on the temperature coefficient of the wire .
In nearly all the specimens examined , the point where the characteristic change in sign of the temperature-coefficient takes place was displaced so as to occur at a lower temperature .
In view of uncertainties in the method of subjecting a sample of the wire to treatment exactly similar-to what the coils themselves had received , and determining the coefficient of this piece\#151 ; the process usually followed\#151 ; we attempted to measure directly the actual coefficient of the coils themselves in To do this we first tried a method consisting in the determination of the apparent value in box-units of a resistance kept at constant temperature , while the box-temperature was varied between that of the tap-water circulated through the outer tank and a maximum of about 35 ' .
During these determinations every care was taken that the temperature of the coils as registered really represented their mean temperature at the time .
Without going into details as to how this was attained by keeping up a continuous circulation of hot or cold water in the outer tank , and other precautions , we may say that the results of the measurements made were somewhat unsatisfactory , and the reason of this was traced to a curious and , we believe , not previously observed behaviour of the alloy in not taking up instantaneously the resistance corresponding to a new temperature to which i may he subjected , especially when I 2 cooling .
We found that if the results of the separate determinations of the value of a constant outside resistance made with a series of steady box-temperatures with temperature rising be plotted , along with those of a series similar in every respect but with the temperature falling , the two do not overlap but form a loop .
After a determination commenced at about 15 ' , during which the resistance-box was heated to 31 ' and allowed to cool , the whole temperature change occupying about nine hours , the coils did not return to their original resistance at 15 ' till they had been at this temperature about three days .
We satisfied ourselves that this was due to a real lag in resistance and not in the indications of the box thermometers .
The whole hysteresis effect is , however , small , and is quite imperceptible if the temperature changes are very slow , like the variations of laboratory temperature to which the box was ordinarily subjected .
We may say that the temperature coefficient of the sample with which we observed the effect is rather abnormally small even for manganine , and that we had not time to see if the same effect could be observed with other specimens .
Although from the values thus obtained we might have deduced the temperature coefficient , using only the determinations made after a rise of temperature , we considered it advisable to make some fresh experiments , using a modification of the same method .
During the first series of observations with thermometer K.8 , a considerable number of zeros had been taken during a period when the box-temperature differed markedly from day to day .
The thermometer had meanwhile never been disconnected from the box ; the contacts remained in the same condition throughout , and we have no reason to believe that any secular change occurred in the leads or thermometer wire during the experiments .
These experiments , during which the box temperatures ranged from 6'*60 to 19'*65 , were accordingly utilised to calculate the temperature-coefficients of the coils , and from them a formula was obtained by least squares for the change of resistance of the box-coils with temperature .
Choosing as a standard temperature 15 ' , a table was calculated giving the coefficients by which the nominal box-resistances must be multiplied to give the true resistances .
This multiplier is alluded to subsequently as the " factor " in the example of the method of calculating an experiment given later .
The following numbers extracted from the table , show the magnitude of the coefficient in question :\#151 ; Temp. Factor .
Temp. Factor .
5 ' 1 - -0000602 13 ' 1 - -0000169 6 569 14 087 7 530 15 1 + -ooooooo 8 485 16 + 093 9 434 17 + 193 10 377 18 + 299 11 314 19 l- 410 12 244 20 + 528 COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
The coils used for this experiment were those lettered C and E , 10 and 3 ohms respectively , which may be taken as fairly representative .
They enter into nearly all the comparisons with K.8 .
It may be pointed out here that the influence of the variations of box-temperature on the results is largely eliminated in the experiments , as the fundamental points of the platinum thermometers were determined before , during , and after each series of experiments , and if a wrong value were taken for the coefficient to reduce all these to standard temperature , the errors committed would practically compensate one another .
We may mention here that the coefficients deduced by the method described above show a satisfactory agreement with those found from the ascending series of observations made by the first method , although the coils used in the two cases were not exactly the same .
* XXI .
Fixed Points of the Platinum Thermometers .
Before the commencement of each series of platinum thermometer comparisons a set of determinations of the zero and steam-points , generally about six in number , was always made ; frequently check determinations of these points , especially of the zero , were interspersed between the comparisons themselves , thus giving an indication of the exact time when changes , if any , really took place .
The zeros were taken in an apparatus similar in all respects to that described later in treating of the gas thermometer .
A few of the first steam-points were taken in an early form of the boiling-point apparatus usually employed at the Breteuil Laboratory , originally designed for mercury thermometers .
During a long series of preliminary control comparisons between the platinum and gas thermometer at 100 ' we found , however , a very small but systematic discrepancy in the results , which disappeared when the steam-points of both thermometers were taken in the same apparatus .
We therefore arranged that the same steam-point apparatus should be used by both of us in all the subsequent experiments .
The apparatus for the determination of the boiling-point of sulphur , and the special experiments made with it , are described later on p. 97 .
XXII .
Heating of the Thermometer Wire by the Current .
It is manifest that however small the current employed in the thermometers may be , it must needs heat them to some extent .
Although the amount of this heating would be difficult to calculate , yet we thought it advisable to make a few experiments with a view to determine it , and at the same time to get some data from which we might be able to fix upon the best magnitude of the current to be employed for the thermometric measurements .
For this purpose we made a number of determinations of the apparent resistance of thermometer K.8 in ice using different battery-currents .
For these a curve was constructed showing the increase in apparent resistance of the wire with increasing energy absorbed in the coil , and a value calculated for what the resistance would be , if the current through it ( and , consequently , the heating-effect ) were vanishingly small .
Our measurements conclusively showed that , within the limits of accurate experiment , the heating effect was directly proportional to the watts in the wire , and that the heating per milliwatt for K.8 was about 0o,006 .
In some of the earlier experiments , made before the heating effect was investigated , we employed a total resistance in the battery circuit of 150 ohms for measurements at 0 ' ; the heating due to the current in this case being 0o,024 .
For all the subsequent experiments , however , by increasing the external resistance the heating was diminished to 0o,014 in ice .
Although we only made direct determinations of the magnitude of the heating effect at 0 ' , we have assumed , in the absence of further data , that for a thermometer coil the heating due to a given amount of energy expended in it is the same at all temperatures .
As this is only approximate , some of our results may subsequently require small modifications ; but the value we give later for the boiling-point of sulphur would not be affected , as it is expressed on the scale of the gas thermometer , the platinum thermometers being only used as an intermediary .
We calculated a table for each of the principal platinum thermometers , giving the resistance to be inserted in the external circuit for different temperatures.# In the example of a platinum temperature calculation given later , this number is referred to as the battery resistance " B.R. = 317 ohms .
" XXIII .
Determination of the Centre of the Bridge .
The index-error of the scale was determined from time to time during the work by reducing the resistances between CxC .
, and PiP2 ( fig. 1 , p. 41 ) to zero , fixing all the contact pieces firmly in position , and determining the point of balance of the bridge .
Should this not fall strictly at the centre of the scale , a correction for 'k bridge-centre " is applied in each resistance measurement .
* It was afterwards found that the formula used to calculate the table referred to was not strictly correct , hut made the external resistance at high temperatures greater than it should have been .
As , however , the total current heating at 0 was only 0'014 , and less than this at higher temperatures , the correction to be applied to the results , on account of the adoption of wrong external resistances , is probably well within the limits of experimental error , especially seeing that the error introduced is already partly compensated by its effect on the fundamental intervals as well as on the platinum temperatures found .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
[ Paragraph added December 1 , 1899.\#151 ; The measurements by which we attempted to determine the scale of the platinum thermometers may be divided into four groups , in which different instruments and means of heating were employed , and in which the precision varied from group to group .
These are\#151 ; ( 1 ) Comparisons in water between 0 ' and 50 ' of platinum thermometers K.8 and K.9 with the four principal mercury standards of the Bureau .
( 2 ) Comparisons of K.8 and K.9 in an oil bath at temperatures between 80 ' and 200 ' , with a constant volume nitrogen thermometer , the initial pressure of the gas being 793 millims. of mercury .
( 3 ) Comparisons of thermometers K.8 and K.9 between 250 ' and 460 ' in a bath formed of a mixture of nitrates of potash and soda , with the nitrogen thermometer , the initial pressure being 529 millims. ( 4 ) Comparison of thermometer K.2 with the same nitrogen thermometer in the same bath between the temperatures 424 ' and 586 ' , the initial pressure being 392 millims. As the sensibility of the gas thermometer varies according to the initial pressure , it is evident that the same precision cannot be attained in the different series .
The construction of our instrument was such that the highest measurable pressure was about 1400 millims. ] XXIV .
General Considerations on the Gas Thermometer .
In accordance with the decision of the International Committee of Weights and Measures , * the provisionally accepted normal scale of temperature is that of the constant-volume hydrogen thermometer .
The employment of hydrogen for our work seemed therefore advisable , and before proceeding to the actual comparisons , we made a number of trials ' of the hydrogen thermometer between 100 ' and 200 ' .
Up to temperatures about 180 ' these experiments gave fairly good results , but we noticed that prolonged heating above 180 ' was generally followed by a diminution of the gas contained in the thermometer reservoir .
This diminution , though small , being regularly reproduced after each prolonged heating , might become serious at higher temperatures .
Some special measurements , made on a known quantity of hydrogen enclosed in a capillary of " verre dux " of 1 square millim. cross section , and exposed * The resolution fixing this was passed by the International Committee on October 15 , 1887 , and is as follows :\#151 ; " That the International Committee of Weights and Measures adopt as the Normal Thermometric Scale for the International Service of Weights and Measures , the centigrade scale of the Hydrogen Thermometer having as fixed points the temperature of melting ice ( 0 ' ) , and that of the vapour of distilled water in ebullition ( 100 ' ) under the normal atmospheric pressure ; the hydrogen being taken under the manometric initial pressure of one metre of mercury , i.e. , at -YV'\lt ; r = 1'3158 of the atmospheric pressure .
" repeatedly to temperatures varying from 200 ' to 250 ' , showed that the volume of the gas regularly diminished .
It therefore seems evident from these experiments that the walls of " verre dur " absorb a minute quantity of hydrogen .
It appears probable that this absorption is due to the reduction of sulphates contained in the glass .
The employment of lead-glass as the material for the reservoir instead of " verre dur " would probably give rise to still more serious effects on account of the reduction of the salts of lead .
To avoid in the measurement of temperature the uncertainties caused by the variations of the gaseous mass , of which we have just spoken , and which might affect not only its quantity but its composition , we have substituted nitrogen for hydrogen .
The nitrogen scale certainly diverges a few thousandths of a degree from the hydrogen scale in the interval 0 ' to 100 ' .
Its departure from the normal scale at high temperatures is likely to be small and can always be corrected subsequently , when the necessary data have been collected .
The initial pressures of the nitrogen gas thermometer show no diminution , but rather a slight increase , which is explained by the contraction of the glass due to the annealing .
XXV .
Comparisons of the Platinum Thermometers K.8 and K.9 with the Mercury Standards .
The direct comparison of the platinum thermometers with the large normal hydrogen thermometer between 0 ' and 100 ' would have necessitated such an enormous amount of work , without offering any special advantage , that we decided not to employ this instrument , but to take instead the four primary mercury standards of the Bureau , Tonnelot thermometers Nos. 4428 , 4429 , 4430 , and 4431 , whose corrections to the hydrogen-scale have been previously determined with all possible precautions by one of us .
An account of this work is given in vol. 6 , ' Trav .
et Mem. du Bureau International .
' The comparisons between these mercury standards and the platinum thermometers were made in an apparatus constructed originally for the comparison of mercury thermometers with each other , which was modified and considerably improved for the purpose of this research .
This apparatus is shown in fig. IT .
It consists of two concentric , rectangular , copper troughs ; the outer one , which is protected by an oak case , having a capacity of about 70 litres .
This trough communicates by a side tube with a small vertical copper vessel , well protected against radiation , which can be heated by a large gas burner .
A screw stirrer , worked by a small motor , drives through the heater a rapid current of water , which is taken in at the opposite end of the trough by a horizontal tube resting on the bottom , and circulates as shown by the arrows in the figure .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
The interior trough , which is 112 centime , long , 17 centims. wide , and 14 centims. deep , is provided at one end with a system of screw blades for stirring .
Resting upon its bottom is the metal framework on which the thermometers are arranged .
This thermometer support is so contrived that all the thermometers can , without risk of straining them , be simultaneously clamped parallel to one another , and in the same horizontal plane .
During the comparisons the platinum thermometer was fixed horizontally , with its spiral in the same plane as the mercury thermometers , and close to them .
To prevent the water from penetrating to the portions of it which were exposed , the head Fig. 11 .
Horizontal Bath for Comparisons in Water .
A , stem , and e , head , of platinum thermometer ; l , brass box surrounding the head of platinum thermometer ; D , heater for water in outer tank ; c , plate of milk glass .
was placed in a square brass box open above and provided with a side tube , through which the greater part of the length of the thermometer stem projected , the joint being made by an india-rubber stopper .
The internal tank is provided with a rim , on which rests a piece of plate glass 8 millims. thick , covering the whole surface of the water , with which it is just in contact .
By this arrangement the cooling by evaporation is almost entirely prevented , and the attainment of a very constant temperature much facilitated .
When operating at temperatures below that of the room , it is advisable to cover the glass with a thin layer of water , in order to avoid the deposition of dew upon it .
VOL. CXCIV.----A .
K The readings of the mercury thermometers are made by means of a small vertical reading telescope sliding on the glass plate , and can be made while the stirrer is at work .
The space around the inner tank is closed above by a metal lid , pierced with the necessary openings for the axes of the stirrers .
Observations with Thermometer K.8 .
The thermometer K.8 was compared under these conditions with the four standards at temperatures between 0 ' and 50 ' .
These experiments are numbered 4 to 17 in the summary of results for K.8 at the end .
To avoid the errors of parallax on the mercury thermometers , ten readings were made with the divisions upwards and ten with the thermometers turned through 180 ' .
After each series the zeros of the mercury thermometers were observed in the usual manner with a micrometer telescope .
Three other observations at higher temperatures ( numbered 18 to 20 in the table ) were made with the same thermometers in another apparatus , described later when treating of the gas thermometer .
In the three experiments all the instruments were used in the vertical position .
Care was taken to have only a very small emergent column in each case .
The bath was filled with oil , and was heated by the vapour of ethyl alcohol boiling under various pressures .
We also made three measurements below 0 ' in an apparatus specially constructed for experiments at low temperatures , which has been described in the ' Proces-verbaux des Seances du Comite International , ' 1891 , page 33 .
The thermometers plunge into a bath of alcohol cooled by the evaporation of liquid methyl chloride , and stirred continuously by a suitable mechanism .
The two mercury standards , Tonnelot thermometers Nos. 11,165 and 11,166 , which were employed for these observations , have been studied at the Bureau , and compared directly with the hydrogen thermometer under the same conditions .
The series we made consists of three experiments numbered 1 to 3 in the Summary .
Observations with Thermometer K.9 .
The later series of comparisons of thermometer K.9 with the mercury standards was made under precisely similar conditions to those described above for K.8 , but the number of different points in this case was not so great ; each experiment consisted of only ten observations instead of twenty as before .
The experiments between 0 ' and 50 ' are numbered 1 to 6 in the table .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
XXVI .
Description of the Gas Thermometer .
The gas thermometer we employed for our researches is similar to the instrument previously described by one of us* and is shown in fig. 12 .
It is a constant-volume thermometer arranged so as to permit the determination of the total pressure of the gas contained in the thermometric reservoir by a single reading .
The simplification thus introduced into the measurements permits rapid observations without sensibly diminishing the precision , which is limited more by the conditions of uniformity of the baths and other heating arrangements employed than by reading errors .
The apparatus constituting the gas thermometer is installed on a foundation of concrete about 1 cubic metre in volume abutting against one of the massive walls of the laboratory .
On this foundation on the left hand rests a rectangular stone pillar , with slate top , carrying the manometric apparatus , while the heating baths on the right are supported on the same foundation at floor level , this however not being shown in fig. 12 .
The manometric apparatus is protected from heating by a large paper screen which extends upward right to the ceiling , and which is pierced with the holes necessary to admit the passage of the various connecting portions .
( a ) Thermometric Reservoir .
For the first part of the experiments we employed a cylindrical reservoir of hard glass drawn from a tube 36 millims. external diameter and 1*5 millims. thick .
This tube , closed at one extremity , was fused at the other to a capillary tube of the same glass , having a bore of 0'53 millim. and 90 centims. long .
Fig. 12 shows the thermometric reservoir mounted for the experiments , its axis being in the vertical position , which we find the most convenient for the introduction of the reservoir into the various baths employed .
The outer bend of the tube carrying the reservoir is supported by a light frame from the iron girder carrying the manometer , and slides vertically along this through a considerable distance .
The porcelain reservoir employed for work at high temperatures was obtained from the Royal Porcelain Factory at Berlin .
It is cylindrical in shape and is 36 millims. external diameter and 20 centims. long .
The reservoir has a neck 28 centims. in length and 11 millims. exterior diameter .
It is pierced with a hole of 2 millims. diameter , into which just passes the platinum capillary uniting the reservoir to the manometer .
The joining of the platinum tube to the neck of the manometer is a matter of some difficulty , since it is of great importance that this joint should be absolutely gas-tight .
We finally adopted the following disposition which has answered well .
On the platinum tube which enters to a length of 11 centims. into the neck of the reservoir , a brass washer is soldered which fits exactly to the flat end of the * ' Trav .
et M4m .
du Bureau International , ' vol. 6 , p. 28 .
K 2 Fig. 12 Sketch of Gas Thermometer .
The reservoir is shown raised above its natural position in the comparison bath , and the screens are all removed .
It , mercury reservoir ; a , steel connecting tube ; r , r , scale ; c and v , slide and worm gear holding the barometer and scale ; m , m , handles for adjustment of position of barometer and scale .
Fig. 13 .
Detail of Manometer-point , t , glass tube optically ground inside and out ; b , brass collar , holding the cylindrical stopper of nickel-steel ; v , ground joint .
Fig. 14 .
Section of slide carrying the manometer and scale .
Fig. 15 .
Zero apparatus .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
09 neck .
This washer is tightly held in place by a brass clamp , which screws on to a collar made in halves and fixed to the narrow part of the neck by a cement , which is a little less fusible than that employed for the joint proper .
( b ) Barometer and Manometer .
The manometric apparatus is mounted on a vertical iron girder , 2 metres high and of H -shaped cross-section , solidly bolted by three diverging iron feet to the massive pillar previously described .
The external faces of the girder are planed up as true as possible over their entire length , and on them slide supports for the manometric tubes , the barometer , and mercury reservoir .
To increase the stability of the whole , the top of the iron column is fixed to the wall by a transverse piece , which also serves to support two brass tubes on which slide the observing telescopes .
The barometer consists in its upper part of a tube of 15 millims. internal diameter .
A point of black glass is fixed axially in the interior of this tube by fusion .
This is referred to subsequently as the barometer-'point .
Below the barometric chamber the tube has a double bend , which brings the lower part of the tube 4 centims. to the right of the upper portion .
The barometer tube is firmly fixed above to a carriage , c , which can be displaced vertically by the movement of a screw 60 centims. in length , working in bearings above and below , and engaging by bevel gearing with a horizontal shaft projecting forwards .
By turning the small handle m the barometer can be raised or lowered at will .
The piece which maintains the barometer tube on its support also carries suspended between two points by one of its extremities a graduated brass scale 1 '5 metres long , whose axis is at a distance of 48 millims. from the barometer point .
This scale shares all the movements of the barometer carriage , and the glass point may be assumed to have an invariable position with reference to the neighbouring divisions of the scale .
The lower end of the barometer is immersed under mercury in a tube of 90 centims. in length and 25 millims. in diameter , which serves as its reservoir ; this tube can be fixed at different levels on the manometer support .
Projecting from the front of this tube are four stop-cocks at intervals of 15 centims. , serving to establish communication between the barometer and manometer at any height .
The open branch of the barometer communicates below by means of a long steel tube , a , with a reservoir , B , of large capacity filled with mercury , which can be displaced vertically either rapidly by hand or slowly by a micrometer screw .
( c ) Manometer .
The closed branch of the manometer , the details of which are shown in the fig. 13 , is composed of a rather thick-walled flint glass tube 16 millims. internal diameter , which has been optically worked inside and out , in order to render it perfectly cylindrical ; the freedom from longitudinal striae thus obtained gives great sharpness to the images obtained through it .
The upper end is closed by a stopper of glass or metal , pierced with a fine hole .
Into this stopper is fastened the end of the capillary tube fused to the thermometric reservoir .
The stopper , which is ground perfectly cylindrical , enters the tube , which it fits closely , for a length of 25 millims. , and is fixed in position by a very thin layer of Canada balsam , thus forming a perfect joint .
The lower part of the stopper is plane and well polished , and carries at its centre a very fine steel point 0'5 millim. long , which serves as an index mark to which the mercury may be accurately adjusted .
To avoid all displacement of the stopper and tube in their support , a brass collar is fixed in a groove ground in the stopper , and this is firmly screwed to the iron support by the clamp b. The piece of bronze carrying the manometer tube also serves to maintain the position of the lower end of the scale , and to carry the vernier , whose zero thus occupies an invariable position with regard to the steel point in the manometer tube .
The closed limb of the manometer is so arranged on its support that its axis is in the same vertical line as the point in the upper chamber of the barometer .
The scale remains vertical for all positions of the sliding supports of the barometer and manometer .
These conditions being fulfilled , it is evident that if the distance between the point in the closed branch and the zero of the vernier is once for all known , a single reading of the scale , corrected for the " index error , " which is defined later , suffices to give the difference of level between the two points .
The closed branch of the manometer fits below into a glass T-piece , the horizontal limb of which communicates with a system of tubes serving for the exhaustion and filling of the reservoir .
The lower end of this glass tube is bent horizontally forwards , and communicates by a tap with one of the four taps on the open branch of the manometer .
( d ) Measurements of Pressures .
The disposition of the manometric apparatus permits , as has just been seen , the measurement at any moment of the distance between the two points in the barometer and the closed branch .
The communication between the columns of mercury filling the manometer and the barometer reservoir being established , the pressure exerted by the gas on the mercury in the closed branch is balanced by increasing or diminishing the height of the mercury in the open branch , which is effected by raising or lowering the auxiliary reservoir placed on the left .
The barometer tube is simultaneously displaced , in order to keep the mercury in the neighbourhood of the point in the barometric chamber .
The equilibrium sought is attained when the mercury just reaches at the same time the points in the closed branch and in the barometer chamber .
The observation of this adjustment of the mercury is made by means of two small telescopes magnifying about 36 times , sliding vertically on a brass COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
tube and placed at a distance of 38 centims. from the manometer .
A second tube serves to support three other small telescopes , for the observation of the scale-vernier , and two auxiliary mercury thermometers , which are placed close to the mercurial columns to indicate their temperature .
During the measurements the observer is at a distance of about 50 centims. from the apparatus ; his influence on the temperature of the mercurial columns is thus considerable , as is also that of the various heating baths , and by reason of the great expansion of mercury , this heating probably constitutes one of the principal sources of error in the experiments .
To diminish as far as possible the radiation from the comparison-bath , a double walled metallic screen , in which a current of water circulated , was interposed between it and the manometer .
( e ) Divided Scale .
The divided scale used was constructed by the Societe Genevoise , and has served for previous work with the gas thermometer .
Its length is 1 '5 metres , and its cross-section is in the form of an H. This H-form is not well adapted for use with a vernier .
It would be better to adopt a form allowing the surfaces carrying the divisions of the scale and vernier to be in the same plane .
In this scale the divisions are on a plate of silver let into the median transverse face , very near the plane of the neutral fibres .
Fig. 14 shows in horizontal projection the disposition of the pieces which support the scale and attach it to the barometer , and fig. 13 the pieces which hold the vernier on the support of the manometer tube , and which ensure contact between the scale and the vernier .
The method of suspension of the scale permits it to turn about two axes perpendicular to its length .
In the two directions of free movement two springs gently press the scale against the vernier .
Two thermometers placed at equal distances from the points in the barometer and manometer tubes , the one on a fixed support , the other on an attachment to the barometer , serve to indicate the temperatures of the mercurial columns and of the scale .
Each of these thermometers is placed in a test-tube filled with mercury , of the same diameter as the neighbouring portion of the manometer tubes .
This symmetrical arrangement of the thermometers with regard to the ends of the mercury columns whose temperature is to be measured considerably simplifies the calculation of the mean temperature of the manometer .
XXVII .
Zero Apparatus .
A glass bell-jar supported on an iron tripod and surrounded by several layers of felt serves as the receiver .
The ice , finely divided and saturated with pure water , is pressed around the reservoir of the thermometer , the emergent stem being held by a clamp fixed on the support of the bell-jar .
The apparatus , filled with ice and protected by a cover of thick flannel , can be left three or four hours without the least perceptible change of temperature in the central part occupied by the reservoir , XXVIII .
Steam-point Apparatus .
The 100-point apparatus , shown in fig. 16 , is composed of a small boiler of 3 litres capacity , communicating by a lead tube with a double walled vertical vessel , into Fig. 16 .
Steam-point apparatus .
V , reservoir of gas thermometer .
O , copper boiler .
E , double-walled cylinder .
R , condenser .
m , water manometer .
which the thermometer reservoir can developed in the boiler first passes up descends by the exterior annular space , Fig. 17 .
Oil-batli for comparisons to 200 ' .
Note.\#151 ; The stirring arrangements are not shown .
U , copper oil vessel .
R , condenser .
V , air reservoir .
M , manometer .
C , wall of vapour bath cut away to show interior .
be introduced from above .
The vapour the inner tube of the steam bath , then finally arriving at the condenser , whence it COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
returns to the boiler by a tube plunging below the water-level .
All the communication tubes between the different parts are wide , and arranged so as to avoid the possibility of their becoming choked by the condensation of water in them .
The excess of the interior pressure over that outside can be measured by a small water-manometer introduced into the cork .
XXIX .
Comparison-bath for Range 80 ' to 200 ' .
The disposition of this apparatus , indicated in fig. 17 , is the result of a long series of experiments , the aim of which was to obtain a bath sufficiently uniform in temperature to be employed for the accurate comparison of mercury thermometers with the gas thermometer over the range mentioned .
It fulfils satisfactorily the principal requirements of an apparatus of this kind , viz. :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Uniformity of temperature throughout a space of large dimensions .
( 2 ) Rapid re-establishment of a steady state after the pressure in the boiler has been altered .
( 3 ) Employment of a small number of inexpensive liquids easily obtained in a state of sufficient purity .
The boiler consists of a cylindrical vessel of planished copper 2 millims. in thickness ; it has a diameter of 17 centims. and a height of 82 centims. A bell-shaped vessel of the same material is soldered by its rim concentrically into the interior of the cylinder .
This inner vessel is filled with a heavy petroleum oil , in which the reservoirs of the thermometers to be compared are directly immersed .
The stirring is effected by a vertical stirrer ( not shown in the figure ) , the stems oi which emerging from the bath are protected against cooling by glass tubes .
The annular space between the two vessels serves for the circulation of the vapour , and to increase the uniformity of this circulation the space is divided into two approximately equal parts by the introduction of a thin tube of copper open at both ends , and resting on the bottom of the cylinder .
The vapour given off by the boiling liquid , which fills the lower part of the outer vessel , rises first in the interior space in contact with the walls of the oil-bath , then descends by the exterior , again ascending into the condenser placed at one side , whence it passes in the state of liquid back to the boiler by a lateral tube .
The reversed condenser is in communication by a wide tube with a large copper reservoir in which the pressure can be varied at will , or kept constant , thus changing the temperature of ebullition by a considerable amount ; by using only three liquids any temperature between 80 ' and 200 ' can be quickly attained and kept extremely constant for any length of time , provided only that the joints in the whole apparatus remain perfectly tight .
A mercury manometer indicates the pressure of the vapour .
The bath is covered with several layers ot asbestos-card to avoid losses by radiation and their effects on the temperature of the room .
VOL. CXCIV.\#151 ; A. L t\gt ; RS .
j. a. harker and p. chappuis on a XXX .
Preliminary Determinations .
( a ) Measurement of the Capacity of the Thermometric Reservoir .
Before proceeding to the measurement of the capacity of the thermometric reservoir , we considered it advisable to subject it to a prolonged annealing at the temperature of the boiling-point of sulphur .
After thirteen hours ' heating we obtained for its capacity at 0 ' V0 = 159'670 cub. centims. , and after a second exposure of eleven hours we found Y0 = 159'642 cub. centims. This value was a little modified during the operation of mounting the thermometer , as a short piece of the connecting capillary had to be suppressed .
Allowing for this we found for the first part of the experiments the value V0 = 159'629 cub. centims. ( b ) Coefficient of Dilatation of Hard Glass .
The dilatation of " verre dur " was not measured directly on the thermometric reservoir itself , but on a tube of 1 metre length drawn from the same melting ; its linear dilatation was determined by a long series of experiments at temperatures comprised between 0 ' and 100 ' .
These experiments have given for the law of cubic dilatation of glass between 0 ' and 100 ' the formula Vt = V0 ( 1 + 0-000 021 801 t + O'OOO 000 015 536 f ) , whence , for t \#151 ; 100 ' , V100 = V0 ( 1 + 0-002 335 50 ) .
During some subsequent experiments on the effect of prolonged heating on glass , we had occasion to control this result by determining the dilatation between 0 ' and 100 ' of a " verre dur " vessel drawn from the same tube as the thermometric reservoir .
From these observations we found ( 1 ) Before annealing ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..V100 = Y0(l + 0'002 357 1 ) , ( 2 ) After annealing at 445 ' for 81 hours . .
YI00 = Y0 ( 1 -f- 0-002 343 6 ) .
These last measurements furnish no indication of the magnitude of the term in t~ , which alone has any influence on the temperature measurements .
We have therefore employed , for all the observations relative to the glass reservoir , the expression with two terms indicated above .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
( c ) Determination of the Coefficient of Pressure of the Thermometric Reservoir .
The capillary tube fused to the thermometric reservoir had , at the commencement , a length of about 250 millims. The volume of this tube was determined by weighing a thread of mercury occupying in it a length of 200 millims. ; the weight of mercury contained in 1 millim. of length was found to be 1*69185 gramme .
The calibre of the tube was afterwards studied by Gay-Lussac 's method between the two extreme points 0 and 250 .
The calibration corrections thus obtained had to be applied in the reduction of the observations on the coefficient of pressure .
To measure this coefficient the same method is followed as for the determination of the coefficient of external pressure of mercury thermometers .
The thermometric reservoir is placed in a glass tube filled with water , and closed by a cork pierced with a hole , through which passes the capillary attached to the reservoir .
The space between the reservoir and the external tube can , by means of stop-cocks , be put into communication either with the atmosphere , or with a large exhausted vessel .
The reservoir itself being filled with water up to a certain scale division , observations are made of the displacements of the meniscus produced by varying the external pressure by nearly an atmosphere .
The observations effected under these conditions gave , after all reductions , the following value for the variation Av of the volume of the reservoir , which corresponds to a variation of external pressure equal to a millimetre of mercury , Av =0*006 228 microlitre .
This value of the coefficient of pressure was employed for the calculation of a table giving the variations of volume of the reservoir corresponding to the changes of internal pressure observed in the course of the experiments .
( d ) Determination of the " Dead " ( " Nuisihle , , ) .
The determination of the volume of the space occupied by the gas not exposed to the same temperature as the reservoir presents peculiar difficulties .
It is of extreme importance that the limits of this space should be well defined , which , however , cannot be done quite rigorously .
The " dead space " may be divided into two parts : ( 1 ) the space occupied by the gas in the closed branch of the manometer between the mercury touching the point and the lower surface of the stopper , and ( 2 ) the internal volume of the capillary tube between the plane of the stopper and the part of the tube which penetrates into the heating apparatus .
The curvature of the mercury-meniscus in the closed branch is necessarily somewhat variable , and as the diameter of the tube is 16 millims. , small Fig. 18 .
V/ variations in the capillary angle have an appreciable effect on the volume of the gas above the mercury .
The extent of the second part on the side of the reservoir is also somewhat uncertain , because of the rapid variation of temperature near its end , but as the capillary tube has only a very small diameter , the influence of this cause of error is not great .
In order to avoid the uncertainty of any hypothesis concerning the capillary angle under the actual circumstances , we attempted to measure the total volume of the " dead space " directly in the following manner .
The capillary tube joining the thermometric reservoir to the manometer being straight , the closed branch of the manometer Avas fixed on its support in the position it afterwards had to occupy ( fig. 18 ) , and the open extremity of the reservoir was connected to the mercury pump .
The side tube , S , of the manometer terminated in a tube bent downwards , whose lower end was about on a level with the point .
The tap , R , was placed in communication with the auxiliary mercury reservoir ' forming part of the gas thermometer .
The tube , m , was first exhausted , and then filled up with mercury to near the steel point , and the tube , s , completely filled ; then air was readmitted , and the mercury was adjusted to the point by slightly displacing the reservoir .
The taps , It and t , being then shut , the whole was again exhausted .
A small , carefully weighed vessel containing mercury was placed under the tube , s , and by opening the tap , t , mercury was allowed to enter the manometric tube and fill all the space above the point , rising to the level , , which is at the barometric height above the mercury in the weighed vessel .
The volume of the " dead space " could then be deduced from the loss of weight of the small vessel .
It should be remarked that the pressure in m at the end of the experiment was very nearly the same as at the beginning , and all uncertain corrections were thus avoided .
The divergence found between the individual observations given are a fair measure of the inevitable variations of the " dead space " during Determination of , i .
the volume of the the experiments .
" . .
" . .
' . . . .
" dead space .
If the point , c , did not coincide exactly with the limits of the " dead space , " it would be easy to take account of the difference , the volume of the capillary tube having been previously measured .
The following values for the volume of the " dead space " were obtained by the above method ; \#151 ; COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
cub. centim. ( 1 ) . .
( 2 ) . . .
( \#187 ; ) ... ( 4 ) . . .
( 5 ) . . .
( 6 ) . . .
( 7 ) , . .
Mean . .
0*4371 .
0-4503 .
0-4469 .
0-4380 .
0-4385 .
0-4385 .
0-4385 .
v =0*4411 ( e ) Determination of the " Index Error I The readings made on the scale by means of the vernier do not represent exactly the difference of level between the points in the barometer and the closed branch of the manometer ; this is due to two causes .
The first is that the point of the barometer is not at the same level as the division , 0 , of the scale .
All the scale-readings have , therefore , a correction applied which we will call the correction for " index error , " which must be determined by special measurements with a good cathetometer .
This correction , which would be constant if the plane surface of the girder on which the barometer slides were absolutely true , varies slightly according to the position of the barometer .
The second cause is that the point in the manometer is not at the same level as the division , 0 , of the vernier .
This latter correction may , perhaps , be considered constant for a given position of the closed branch of the manometer .
The correction for the " index error " has been determined frequently during the course of the experiments , especially that relating to the lower point , the position of which has been modified several times .
The publication of the observations being of no interest , we give simply the values of the constants relating to two positions of the closed branch .
From the observations of the 3rd and 4th of May , 1898 , the correction relating to the barometer was found to be Cb = \#151 ; 9*588 millims. , and the correction relating to the manometer point in the raised position ( for observations at 0 ' and 100 ' ) Cm = -f- 20'130 millims. , whence the total correction for " index error " is given by O \#151 ; Cj , -f- Cm = 10*542 millims. In the lower position of the manometer ( used in comparisons between 100 ' and 200 ' ) the total correction had the slightly different value C = 10*552 millims. ( f ) Corrections of the Scale and Vernier .
The corrections of the scale are given in vol. 6 of ' Trav .
et Mem. du Bureau International .
' We need say here only that the study of this scale by M. Isaachsen gives the corrections at each decimetre graduation , except the second , and at all the even centimetres between 500 and 1400 .
The vernier is divided into twenty parts , and its total interval ( 0 , 20 ) corresponds to a length of 18*980 millims. instead of 19 millims. A correction must therefore be applied to the vernier readings , which is proportional to the fraction measured , and whose maximum value is 20 micron .
The measurements made to verify the equidistance of the divisions ol the vernier showed that the errors of division attain 10 micron , for certain lines , but by reason of their irregular distribution , and of the repetition of the observations using different parts of the vernier , they have not been taken into account .
XXXI .
Calculation of the Temperatures .
The deduction of the formula employed for the calculation of the temperatures has been given with all necessary details in the memoir already quoted , # therefore we only give here a resume of the process .
Let Y0 be the volume at 0 ' of the gas contained in the thermometer reservoir ; 8 the mean coefficient of dilatation of the reservoir between 0 ' and T ' ; a the coefficient of expansion of the gas at constant volume ; v the volume of the " dead space " at the standard temperature t ' ; Av and At the variations of volume and temperature of the " dead space " ; H0 the initial pressure of the gas corresponding to the temperature 0 ' of the reservoir and t'of the " dead space " ; H0 + hthe pressure of the gas at the temperature T ' to be determined ; the temperature of the " dead space " being t -J- At , and its volume -f ; / 3i the internal pressure coefficient of the thermometric reservoir .
The total mass of the gas being the same at the temperatures 0 and T , we have \#151 ; ~\#151 ; ) 1 + at ) H0 = ' Y0 ( 1 + ST ) + v 1 + \#171 ; T +1 ( H0 + h ) .
Suppose now that we have applied to the pressures H0 and H0 4* h the corrections necessary to reduce them to what they would have been had the whole dead space been maintained at 0 ' , and let us call these new pressures H0 and H0 4- ^ \gt ; we have then the simplified formula ( V0 + v ) Ho ' = 'Vo ( 1 4 ST ) + S\#163 ; 1 + \#171 ; T ( Ho ' + * ' Trav , et Mem. du Bureau International , ' vol. 6 , p. 52 , COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS , whence , by certain simplifications , we get finally r/ r = H0 ' + H0 ' This formula was used first to calculate the coefficient a between the known temperatures 0 ' and 100 ' , the value found being afterwards utilised for the calculation of the temperatures observed in the comparisons .
XXXII .
Corrections Relating to the " Dead Space .
" The corrections , which must be applied to the observed pressures , to reduce them to what they would have been had the whole of the " dead space " been at 0 ' throughout , are easily deduced from the laws of Boyle and Gay-Lussac .
( 1 ) Let us first suppose that the " dead space " is composed of different parts v = Vi-f v2 -f vt 4- . . .
whose temperatures are . . . .
If now we reduce to 0 ' these gaseous volumes without changing the pressure p to which they are subjected , we have as total variation of volume a\#153 ; \#151 ; ____^__-I-___^____|_ 4- \#151 ; v ( 1 + a\#163 ; j ) ( 1 -f cd2 ) ( 1 + The temperatures tu t2 , t3 . . .
, being generally positive , is negative .
( 2 ) To find the correction sought , it is necessary to transfer from the reservoir , where the temperature is T ' , and the pressure p , a quantity of gas occupying at 0 ' the volume Av , or what comes to the same thing , the volume of the reservoir V must be increased by a quantity equal to Av ( 1 + aT ) .
It is evident that this increase in volume involves a variation of pressure \amp ; P=P ( y ~ Av(i + aT ) " l ) ' which can also be written Ap = \#151 ; \#151 ; ( 1 + aT ) p , and which represents the correction sought .
For the application of these corrections we constructed two tables .
The first gives for every degree the values of ^khd : ' *-(rr*)* ' eteand enables the values of Av to be rapidly calculated .
DRS .
j. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON A The second table gives the values of -f ( 1 + \#171 ; T ) for all the values of T in the comparisons .
XXXIII .
Filling of the Gas Thermometer .
The nitrogen employed was prepared by the following method ; into a solution of 100 grams of potassium bichromate in 900 grams of distilled water were introduced 100 grams of nitrite of soda and 100 grams of nitrate of ammonia .
When gently heated , this mixture gives off a very regular stream of nitrogen , which is collected in a large bottle over distilled water .
To destroy any oxides of nitrogen which the gas may contain , it was passed through two tubes containing caustic potash , then over copper , heated to dull redness in a combustion tube , and finally through a series , of drying tubes containing baryta and phosphoric anhydride .
The gas , after remaining a long time over the drying agents , was introduced into the reservoir of the gas thermometer by a series of glass tubes , leading on the one hand to the tap on the manometer-limb and on the other by a side-tube to the mercury pump .
The reservoir was then heated for some time to about 250 ' , being meanwhile thoroughly exhausted by the mercury pump .
Dry nitrogen was then admitted , and the alternate evacuation and filling with gas were repeated several times .
Our first definite filling was made on February 2 , 1898 .
As the comparisons were to extend between the limits 100 ' and 200 ' the initial pressure at 0 ' C. was adjusted to be approximately 800 millims. of mercury , the pressure at 200 ' corresponding to this being about 1,387 millims. This is nearly the highest pressure which can be measured on the manometer .
XXXIV .
Determination of the Initial Pressure .
It is essential to measure repeatedly the pressure of the gas at the temperature ot melting ice , in order to make sure that no leakage takes place at the joints , and to be in a position to take into account the inevitable small variations in capacity which take place when a glass reservoir is employed .
As we have previously mentioned , prolonged heating produces a permanent contraction of the glass , therefore we may expect an increase in the initial pressure after the comparisons at high temperatures .
For observation of the initial pressure the zero apparatus , previously described , is used .
We give , as an example of a determination , the second series of observations of May 3 , with their reductions , in the form adopted throughout the whole of the experiments .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND CAS THERMOMETERS .
We have taken for the temperature of the " dead space " that indicated by the nearest thermometer , No. 4365 .
3rd May .
Time .
Vernier readings .
Auxiliary thermometers of the manometer .
4365 ( low ) .
4362 ( high ) .
millims. 11.0 784-765 14-960 15-320 .770 .950 .330 .770 .930 .350 .765 .940 .400 11.30 .770 .970 .430 Mean = 784-768 14-950 15-366 Vernier correction . . .
= + -015 Total correction . .
- -054 - -348 Correction for index error .
= + 10-542 795-325 14-896 15-018 Correction for dilatation .
= 1-934 " " gravity . .
= 4- 0-263 " , , the scale .
= - 0-026 Mean = 14-957 = - 0-114 Initial pressure . . . .
= 793-514 Av = - 22-9 microlitres All the observations given on the following page have been calculated exactly as in the example quoted , regard being paid to the subsequent modifications in the " index error .
" VOL. cxciv.\#151 ; A , M Date .
Initial pressure in millims. Remarks .
February 3 793-413 ] " 4 .468 " 4 .404 " *5 .456 7 " 421 .427 793-421 From February 4 to 9 six determinations at 100 ' " 8 .395 " \#171 ; .395 " 9 .424 " 9 .406 From March 23 to April 2 comparisons with the thermometer K.8 April 22 793-516 | " 22 .509 " 23 .525 " 23 .498 " 25 .528 " 25 .506 793-519 " 27 .511 From April 22 to 27 seven determinations at 100 ' " 27 .512 " 27 .522 May 2 .543 " 2 .527 j ?
3 .532 " 3 .514 From May 6 to 10 seven determinations at 100 May 11 793-557 ] " 11 .526 " 11 .543 [ - 793-539 " 12 .536 " 12 .534 From May 14 to 24 comparisons with the thermometer K.8 May 26 793-553 " 26 .544 " 27 .575 " 27 .557 " 27 .548 ?
793-563 From May 26 to 28 live determinations at 100 ' " 28 .563 " 28 .580 " 29 .569 " 29 .582 From May 30 to June 2 comparisons with the thermometer K.9 J une 3 793-589 ' \ " 3 " 4 .574 .546 \gt ; 793'566 \#187 ; 4 .554 .
J XXXV .
Determinations of the Coefficient of Expansion of Nitrogen .
The thermometer reservoir and the capillary tube which forms part of it were placed in the boiling-point apparatus described on p. 72 .
As regards the parts of the capillary tube included in the dead space , these COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
83 were protected from the heating effect of the boiling-point apparatus by surrounding-sleeves of thin copper , traversed by a current of cold water .
The temperature was observed by means of a small thermometer placed with its bulb in one of the sleeves .
The temperature of ebullition of the water was deduced from the barometric pressure , observed every 3 minutes , on the auxiliary barometer No. 3 of the Bureau , placed in a neighbouring room , the necessary corrections being of course applied . .
The following example , which is one of the observations of May 13 , will suffice to illustrate the course of the operations .
Determination of the 100-point .
Time .
Vernier reading .
Auxiliary thermometers of the manometer .
Reduced barometer Excess of pressure of steam in Temperature of the in millims. millims. of dead space .
4365 .
4362 .
water .
10.14 A.M. 751-79 1072-215 13'-835 14'-200 2-8 12-70 17 .220 .830 .200 .79 2-8 .70 21 .210 .820 T85 .79 2-8 .80 25 .210 .820 T90 .74 2-9 .80 29 .210 .825 .210 .72 2-7 .90 32 .225 .830 .230 .73 2-8 .90 10.37 .72 Means ... .
| 1072-215 13-827 14-202 751-75 2-8 12-80 Vernier correction = + -004 - 054 - -349 + -25 Index error . .
+ 10-550 13-773 13-853 752-00 Corr. for dilatation 1082-769 Mean = 13-813 = 2-432 " " gravity + -360 " " scale .
= .036 [ A p =7 .
T96 T = 99-705 1080-465 A\#171 ; = - 21 *20 microlitres The total volume of the " dead space being 445TO cub. millims. , the part surrounded by the sleeves , whose volume was 74 6 cub. millims. , had the temperature 12'*8 indicated in the last column on the right .
For the rest of the " dead space , " of volume 366'34 cub. millims. , we have adopted the temperature 13'*77 indicated by the auxiliary thermometer No. 4365 .
The excess of pressure of the vapour over the barometric pressure is measured by M 2 ImS .
J. A. MARKER ANY ) V. CHAPPUIS ON A a small water manometer placed in the cork of the apparatus , and must be transformed to mercury pressure and added to the reduced barometric height .
From this total pressure the temperature is deduced by means of the tables published by M. Brooch for the temperatures of ebullition of pure water , # part of which is re-printed in the Appendix to this paper , Table III .
If the small variations of initial pressure during the course of the experiments be taken into account , we obtain , on applying to the observations the formulae indicated above , the following values for the coefficentof expansion of nitrogen under constant volume:\#151 ; Date Coefficient .
Initial pressure in millims. assumed for the calculation .
April 4 0-00367 131 " \#187 ; 5 244 " 7 " 8 196 186 ,0-00367 177 793-421 " 8 134 " 9 172 April 22 0-00367 173 ] " 22 117 " 23 148 " 23 167 0-00367 142 793-519 " 25 143 " 25 126 " 26 120 May 6 0-00367 178 ] " 6 198 " 7 195 " 7 172 0-00367 175 793-532 " 8 140 " io 145 \#187 ; io 194 May 26 0-00367 246 ' " 26 224 " 27 227 , 0-00367 227 793-563 " 27 224 " 28 216 General mean = 0-00367 180 The general mean of these four groups of determinations has been employed for the calculation of the temperatures in the series of comparisons made about this time , excepting the series with the thermometer K.9 , for which the mean of the last group of observations 0'00367 227 was adopted .
* * 'Trav .
et .
Mem. du Bureau International/ vol. 1 A , p. 46 .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
XXXVI .
Comparisons between Platinum Thermometer K.8 and the Nitrogen Thermometer .
These comparisons were made in the oil-bath previously described ( Section XXIX ) .
Fig. 17 shows the arrangement of the two instruments in the comparison-bath .
For the first series between 88 ' and 116 ' water was employed in the jacket .
Simultaneous observations of the two instruments were made by the authors while an assistant worked the stirrer .
Each comparison at any one temperature consisted of ten observations .
To eliminate slight uncertainties due to thermoelectric effects the battery current was always reversed after the first five readings .
The second series of observations , extending from 120 ' to 160 ' , was obtained by the ebullition of paraxylene , and the final series up to 190 ' with aniline .
As we have indicated in the resume of the zeros on p. 82 , the comparisons of K.8 with the nitrogen thermometer may be divided into two groups , the first extending from 88 ' to 161 ' ( March 23 to April 2 ) and consisting of twenty-six observations , the second from 89 ' to 190 ' ( May 14 to 24 ) and comprising twenty-two observations .
We give as example of a comparison the observations of May 24 at 1880,6 .
Nitrogen Thermometer Readings , 24th May .
Time .
Vernier readings .
Auxiliary thermometers of the manometer .
4365 ( low ) .
4362 ( high ) .
millims. 11.25 1327-260 16-050 17-800 .570 .060 .800 .485 .070 .820 .385 TOO .820 .370 TOO .845 .310 .110 .850 .310 .110 .850 .300 .120 .900 .350 .130 .890 11.40 1327-350 16T40 17-880 Mean \#151 ; 1327-369 16-099 17-846 Vernier correction . . .
= + -007 Total correction .
- -052 - -335 Correction for index error .
= + 10-550 \#151 ; 16047 17-511 1337*926 Correction for dilatation .
= 3-647 Mean = 16-779 " " gravity . .
= + '444 \gt ; 5 , , scale ... \#151 ; .048 A p \#151 ; .346 = - - 24-5 1334-329 o Nitrogen temperature = 188'588 I\gt ; RS .
J. A. MARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON A Platinum Thermometer Readings .
Experiment No. 68 , 24th May , 1898 .
Bridge-centre = \#151 ; *002 centim. Battery resistance =317 ohms .
Coils B , F , J = 10488*249 .
Box temperature = 15'*22 .
Factor = 1 + *000 0020 .
Readings .
a. Pi + 14-135 6 + 14-610 2 + 16-875 7 + 14-520 3 + 16-270 8 +14-900 4 + 15-330 9 +14-930 5 + 14-810 10 + 14-990 Mean bridge-wire reading .
\#151 ; + 15*137 Bridge-wire correction .
\#151 ; \#151 ; 0*035 Corrected bridge-wire reading \#151 ; + 15*102 Coils ... 1 10488*249 Bridge-wire reading \#151 ; + 15*102 Centre correction ... .
= + 0*002 Temperature correction 4 " 0*020 Resistance found \#151 ; 10503*373 Resistance at zero ... .
\#151 ; 6110*805 1 o = 4392*568 Fundamental interval .
\#151 ; 2361*246 Platinum temperature .
= 18 6 ' *027 .
In reducing the observations we have taken as the mean of the determinations of initial pressure effected before and after each series the values-millims .
For the first series . . .
H0 = 793*470 ; For the second series . .
H0= 793*545 .
XXXVII .
Comparisons with the Thermometer K.9 .
With the thermometer K.9 , which has twice the resistance of K.8 , a precisely similar series of comparisons was made .
The constants adopted for the calculation of the nitrogen temperatures of this series were :\#151 ; COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Initial pressure = 793*563 millims. Coefficient a = 0*003 672 27 , which is the mean of the last group of determinations given on p. 84 .
XXXVIII .
Comparisons at Temperatures between 250 ' and 460 ' .
For the comparisons at high temperatures we constructed a special heating bath , which has proved satisfactory up to the temperatures indicated , and has subsequently been employed up to about 600 ' .
This apparatus is represented in fig. 19 .
It consists essentially of a bath of a Fig. 19 .
1 I \#153 ; Bath for High Temperature Comparisons .
F , cast-iron tank holding the mixed nitrates ; A , stirrer shaft ; C , chimney ; T , wall of air-bath cut away to show interior .
mixture of nitrates of potassium and sodium , heated externally by a double circulation of hot gases , and stirred continuously by a system of rotating screws .
The cast-iron vessel which forms the bath has a depth of 50 centims. and an exterior quadrangular section of 20 centims. by 12 centims. ; the angles are slightly rounded at the corners and on the bottom .
The interior cross-section of the bath approaches an ellipse , a form found by one of us especially favourable to thorough stirring , when the shaft carrying the rotating screw-blades is placed at one of the foci .
The casting is supported by four substantial feet , 6 centims. in length , on a massive iron plate .
This plate is pierced in the centre by a large circular hole , 8 centims. diameter , connected to a suitable sheet-iron chimney , to take away the products of combustion .
Around the bath is fixed the first envelope of stout sheet-iron resting on the base-plate , whose height is a little less than that of the bath .
Over this is placed a second envelope , open below , slightly pyramidal , and protected on the exterior by several layers of asbestos-card and wool .
This rests on the upper edge of the bath , and may easily be detached from the rest of the apparatus .
A special rectangular burner , fitted with several gas taps , is placed round the inner envelope , near the lower opening .
The hot gases rise first in the space between the two covers , then descend between the bath and the inner oiie , finally escaping by the chimney .
The top of the bath and the whole of the hot portions of the apparatus which are exposed are prevented , as far as possible , from disturbing the temperature of the room by covering them with thick layers of asbestos-wool .
It would be dangerous to exj)ose the thermometric reservoirs to the direct action of the melted salts .
We therefore fixed in the bath thin weklless steel tubes closed at their lower ends , and projecting a few centimetres above the surface of the liquid .
The thermometers were introduced into these tubes , which they fitted almost exactly .
The tube containing the reservoir of the nitrogen thermometer was provided with a brass lid closely surrounding the capillary tube , a few washers of asbestos completing the joint .
The bath is stirred by two sets of screw-blades fixed to a vertical steel shaft , which extends to a height of about 40 centims. above the top .
The upper end of this shaft is suspended directly by a piece of rubber tube from the axis of a small electric motor worked by four accumulators .
The system of heating which we have just described allows a very satisfactory constancy of temperature to be attained , but several hours are required in order to obtain another equilibrium at a different temperature .
To facilitate this , the bath was heated continuously during the whole course of the experiments at high temperatures .
For the first set of comparisons , which were interrupted by an accident , and which consisted of a small number of measurements , we employed the reservoir of " verre dur " described previously .
In the second , and more complete series , the porcelain reservoir was used throughout .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
First Comparisons .
( Platinum thermometers , K.8 and K.9 , with " verre dur " gas thermometer.)\#151 ; The comparisons numbered 70 to 72 in the table for K.8 , and 25 to 32 in that for K.9 were made during the summer of 1898 with the thermometric reservoir of " verre dur .
" The following table shows the sequence of the various operations .
Date .
Initial pressure in millims. Determination of the coefficient of expansion of the nitrogen .
Remarks .
June 9 .
Reservoir heated to 440 ' for four hours " 9 532*877 " 10 532*879 " 10 532*869 " 11 0*00366 867 " 11 846 " 11 849 " 12 532*905 " 12 532*868 844 " 13 827 " 17 ... ... Reservoir heated to 500 ' " 17 Commenced comparisons with thermometer K.9 " 19 534*320 " 19 534*298 " 19 534*307 " 20 534*295 f o Commenced comparisons with thermometer K.8 The comparisons all being subsequent to the heating of the reservoir to 500 ' , the nitrogen temperatures have been calculated , assuming for the initial pressure the mean of the observations made after the comparisons , viz. :\#151 ; H = 534*305 millims. It will be noticed that this value differs by 1*42 millims.# from the initial pressure observed before the comparisons given previously ; this increase is obviously due to the contraction of the reservoir by the annealing effect of the high temperatures .
As the reservoir had been heated to about 500 ' before the observations , we concluded that the contraction was produced entirely before the first measurements .
XXXIX .
Determination o the Constants of the New Gas Thermometer with Porcelain Reservoir , We have already described the porcelain reservoir and the way it is connected to the manometer tube .
It remains to indicate the method by which we have measured * This variation of pressure corresponds to 0''7 C. VOL. CXCIV.\#151 ; A. n its capacity and pressure coefficient and the necessary new determinations of the " dead space .
" ( a ) Capacity of the Porcelain This was determined by weighing the reservoir empty , and tilled with water at 0 ' .
The following are the results of the weighings made :\#151 ; Date .
Reservoir empty .
Reservoir filled .
Weight of water .
grams .
grams .
grams .
August 9 " io 261-974 74 427-336 59 165-368 54 " 11 " 11 261-961 35 427-328 86 165-367 84 " 11 " 12 261-960 69 427-337 35 165-376 84 " 12 261-960 33 Mean = 165-371 07 The volume occupied by this mass of water at 0 ' C. is V0 = 165*393 cub. centims. This value has been taken as the total capacity up to the extremity of the capillary tube , part of which is included in the " dead space .
" ( b ) Dilatation of the Porcelain .
The porcelain reservoir , carefully dried , was connected to the mercury pump , very thoroughly exhausted , and then filled with mercury vacuo .
To the end of the capillary was cemented a glass tube about 1 millim. internal diameter , divided into millimetres , whose calibration corrections and internal volume had been previously determined .
The whole being placed in melting ice , the level of the mercury was adjusted to a point on this tube , which was carefully noted .
Bringing the whole afterwards to 100 ' , the amount of mercury which escaped was determined by weighing , the necessary corrections being applied to reduce the reading of the meniscus to its original position .
Four determinations were made by this process of the apparent dilatation of mercury in porcelain between 0 ' and 100 ' , and a few series of observations were taken at intermediate temperatures .
These measurements , about which it is not necessary to enter into further detail , gave after all reductions the following results : COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Temperature .
Dilatation of the reservoir in microlitres , i.e. , excess over volume at 0 " C. 25-229 33-87 29-995 4017 39-746 53-74 49-990 66-85 99-792 147-64 99-796 147-28 99-890 148-03 99-905 148-00 [ For the dilatation of mercury , which enters into the calculations , the formula found by one of us ( ' Proces-verbaux des Seances du Comite International/ 1891 , p. 37 ) V , = V0[l -f ( 182008* - 1P380 4 *2+ 0*169 21*H ) 10"9 ] was adopted .
] Treated by the method of least squares , these observations give for the cubic dilatation of porcelain the following formula :\#151 ; V4 = V0[l + 0-000 007 593 06* + 0'000 000 013 750*2 ] .
The observations between 0 ' and 100 ' which determine the value of the term in * .
not being numerous , we can consider only the mean dilatation between the extreme points 0 ' and 100 ' as having been determined with sufficient accuracy .
As , however , it was of importance to know the second term more exactly , as its influence increases at high temperatures , we made a second determination of the dilatation by means of the Fizeau apparatus .
The specimen which served for this determination was prepared from a fragment of the capillary tube of a precisely similar reservoir made at the same time at the Imperial Porcelain Factory at Berlin .
The results of this determination , which comprised 37 observations between the temperatures 2 ' and 82 ' , are for the linear expansion a , = 0-000 002 687 62 , ft = 0-000 000 002 987 3 ; and for the cubical expansion a , = 0-000 008 062 8 , ft = 0-000 000 008 983 .
The two methods give practically the same result for the mean dilatation between 0 ' and 100 ' ; by the weight thermometer we have ax -f 100ft = 0-000 008 968 71 , N 2 and by the Fizeau method we have a2 + 100ft = O'OOO 008 961 2 .
Admitting the coefficient ft , deduced from the observations by the Fizeau method , we have calculated the coefficient a2 from the relation which gives a2 + 100ft = 0-000 008 968 a2 = 0-000 008 070 35 .
We have thus adopted as our final formula for the cubic expansion of Berlin porcelain V , = V0 ( 1 + 0-000 008 070 35 + O'OOO 000 008 983\#163 ; ) .
( c ) Pressure Coefficient of the Porcelain Reservoir .
The measurement of the pressure coefficient of the porcelain reservoir was made in precisely the same way as that of the glass reservoir previously described on p. 75 .
We determined by three series of observations the variation of volume Av corresponding to a variation of pressure of 1 millim. , obtaining the following results :\#151 ; microlitres .
( 1 ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..Av = 0*003 803 5 ( 2 ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-003 701 7 ( 3 ) ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 0-003 746 6 We have adopted the mean of these three determinations , viz. :\#151 ; At ' = 0"003 750 microlitre per millim. ( d ) Determination of the " Dead Space .
" For this determination we followed exactly the method already described on p. 75 .
The nine weighings made gave divergences from the mean of four parts per thousand .
After all reductions we found for the whole volume of the " dead space " v \#151 ; 709*5 microlitres .
The effective capacity of the thermometric reservoir being V0 = 164*805 cub. centims. , we have v/ Y0 = 0-004 305 .
This result , which is appreciably higher than the corresponding one for the COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
reservoir of " verre dur , " was employed for the reduction of all the measurements made with the gas thermometer with porcelain reservoir .
XL .
First Determinations with Porcelain Gas Thermometer .
The mounting of the gas thermometer being completed , we proceeded to fill the reservoir with nitrogen .
The gas was prepared by the process previously described and was thoroughly dried over phosphorus pentoxide .
The reservoir was several times pumped out and partially filled with the dry gas , it being heated meanwhile to a temperature of about 250 ' , and the final filling and adjustment of the pressure was made at the same high temperature .
We give in the following table the measurements of the initial pressure and coefficient of expansion of the nitrogen , made immediately afterwards .
Date .
Initial pressure .
H0 .
Coefficient .
a. millims. September 18 524-591 " 18 .619 " 19 " 19 .576 0-003 670 8 " 20 " 20 .592 669 9 " 20 .589 " 21 " 21 .577 0-003 670 1 " 21 " 21 .627 3 669 4 " 21 .624 " 22 " 22 .584 0-003 669 4 " 22 " 23 .563 669 2 23 .572 Mean = 0-003 669 8 The value here found for the coefficient of expansion of nitrogen is slightly higher than that previously obtained with the glass reservoir thermometer ( 0*003 669 8 instead of 0*003 668 5 ) .
Before proceeding to the experiments at high temperatures , we thought it advisable to heat the porcelain reservoir to the temperature of ebullition of sulphur , to see if under the actual circumstances prolonged exposure to a high temperature would produce a modification of the initial pressure .
As is well known , certain bodies retain traces of water or condensed gases up to very high temperatures , and , as the reservoir had been washed with distilled water , there was some ground for apprehension that , in spite of the care taken with the filling , it might possibly have retained traces of water .
After a heating of 26 hours above 400 ' we found in fact an initial pressure considerably greater than that given above , viz. :\#151 ; millims. October 4 . . .
525-359 " 4 . . .
525-361 " 5 . . .
525-341 " 7 . . .
525-348 Mean . .
- 525-352 Determinations of the coefficient of expansion gave also a value appreciably greater than the one found previously .
From the mean of four experiments we found a = 0-003 674 0 .
Our fears having been justified , the thermometer reservoir was again put into communication with the pump and exhausted , being meanwhile heated to a temperature of about 500 ' .
After several successive exhaustions and partial fillings of gas the reservoir was then pumped out very thoroughly , and after remaining vacuous for 24 hours was filled to the proper pressure with very well dried gas .
It was maintained all the time at a temperature approaching 500 ' .
The following measurements of the initial pressure and coefficient of expansion were then made :\#151 ; COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
* Date .
Initial pressure .
Coeflicient .
October 15 0-00366 855 " 16 . . .
845 " 16 528-853 " 16 .824 " 17 .833 " 17 . . .
0 00366 830 " 17 . . .
934 18 528-828 " 18 .806 " 19 . . .
0-00366 764 " 19 776 \#187 ; 20 769 " 20 . . .
873 " 21 528-801 " 22 .848 " 22 .844 From October 25 to 29 , comparisons with thermometer K.9 .
October 31 528-773 November 1 .781 " 1 .773 " 2 .789 " 2 0-00366 783 \#187 ; 2 742 " 3 .790 " 5 .734 " 7 528-746 " io .742 " 11 .746 " 11 .739 From November 12 to 17 , comparisons with thermometer K.8 .
November 18 528-759 " 18 .755 " 30 0-00366 848 " 30 764 December 1 757 1 528-765 " 1 .735 .
From this table it may be seen that the initial pressure diminished during the series of comparisons with K.9 by about 0*05 millim. We have assumed for the reduction of the observations that this diminution was proportional to the time .
During the comparisons with thermometer K.8 no sensible diminution of initial pressure was observed .
Comparisons of the Platinum Thermometers Porcelain Gas Thermometer .
We give in the following table the values of the initial pressure assumed on each day for the experiments with thermometer K.9 .
For the coefficient of expansion we have taken the mean of the determinations given above , viz. :\#151 ; a = 0-003 668 11 .
Date of comparison .
Initial pressure in millims. October 25 528-807 " 26 528-802 " 27 528-797 " 28 528-792 " 29 528-787 The comparisons are numbered 33 to 53 in the table for K.9 at the end .
For the calculation of all the comparisons with thermometer K.8 we have taken as the initial pressure the value 528*747 millims. These comparisons are numbered 73 to 91 in the table for K.8 at the end .
Comparisons of Thermometer K.2 .
We noticed that during the experiments with K.8 and K.9 above the sulphur point the glass tubes of the platinum thermometers were seriously attacked and showed signs of softening .
Some time previously porcelain tubes had been ordered to replace the glass ones , but owing to the delivery of these being inordinately delayed , we were obliged to relinquish the comparisons we had intended to make with K.8 and K.9 at higher temperatures and take in their place a low resistance platinum thermometer , K.2 , already provided with a porcelain tube .
The initial pressure in the gas thermometer was reduced to 391*88 millims. and a series of 12 comparisons made , the results of which are shown in the table at the end.# The constants of the gas thermometer were determined in the usual manner before the comparisons .
The value found for the coefficient a was 0*003 667 71 .
We were prevented by an accident from redetermining this coefficient of dilatation after the measurements .
This is to be regretted , as the preceding determinations showed a systematic diminution in its value which we are unable to explain .
If the coefficient corresponding to an initial pressure of 392 millims. be deduced * As a confirmation of the general accuracy of the methods of standardization , \amp ; c. , adopted in our platinum thermometry , we may mention that on the return of the apparatus from France the constants of thermometer K.2 were redetermined at Kew by Dr. Chree and Mr. Hugo , using the improved Cambridge resistance box , which had just been re-calibrated by them .
For the platinum temperature of the sulphur point at 760 millims. pressure they found a value differing only 0-01 from that got at Sevres , although nearly the whole of the apparatus employed , including the resistance box , leads , and barometer , were of patterns differing materially from those used in France .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
from the law previously found by one of us that the departure of the coefficient from that of a perfect gas varies proportionally to the initial pressure , we have a \#151 ; 0'003 666 3 .
This coefficient would give for temperatures near the sulphur point values about 0o,2 higher than those deduced by employing the one directly observed .
We have nevertheless adhered to the latter for the calculation of the temperatures of this series of comparisons , in order to avoid the introduction of any hypothesis .
XLI .
Explanation op the Tables of Results .
The results of the whole of the comparisons made are given in the tables for each thermometer at the end .
In these the experiments are arranged in order of ascending temperature .
The first three columns give for each experiment the progressive number , the number in our note-books and the date .
Columns IV .
and Y. give pt and d , the value for d being that deduced from the Callendar formula given on p. 39 , assuming the value for 8 as determined for each thermometer at the sulphur point , and taking our new value for the boiling-point of sulphur at 760 millims. pressure , namely 445''27 , given later on p. 101 .
Column VI .
gives the equivalent on the nitrogen scale of the observed pt } as thus calculated , and Column VII .
the temperature on the nitrogen scale as given by the gas thermometer .
Column VIII .
shows the difference between the calculated and observed values , and Column IX .
the constancy of the temperature in each experiment as given by the indication of the platinum thermometer .
XLII .
Determination of the Boiling-Point of Sulphur .
After ascertaining that it was possible , by means of the bath of fused nitrates , to make accurate comparisons between the platinum and gas thermometers at temperatures up to about 600 ' , we saw that by making alternately a determination of the resistance of a platinum thermometer at the boiling-point of sulphur , and a comparison with the gas thermometer near the same temperature , we had a means of obtaining a new determination of the boiling-point on the nitrogen scale .
We accordingly made , in an apparatus of the form described by Callendar and Griffiths as the " Meyer tube , " a number of determinations of the platinum temperature of sulphur-vapour boiling freely under atmospheric pressure .
Readings of the barometer were taken simultaneously with those of the platinum thermometer .
I he reservoir of the platinum thermometer was protected from contact with any condensed sulphur which might flow down to it from the cooler part of the thermometer above , by surrounding it with an asbestos cone perforated with several holes VOL. CXCIV.----A .
o in the base and sides to permit free circulation of the sulphur vapour within it.* It is essential for the attainment of a constant temperature that the cone should be sufficiently long to completely cover the resistance-spiral and a certain length of the stem immediately above it .
During the earlier experiments we had considerable difficulty with the sulphur tubes owing to their liability to crack on re-heating , after having once been used .
We thus found it convenient , when making several consecutive sulphur point determinations , to keep the sulphur just liquid between the different sets of observations , by means of a small by-pass flame .
The establishment of a constant temperature in the sulphur apparatus takes a considerable time ; from half-an-hour to an hour was generally allowed after insertion of the thermometer , f The sulphur we used was obtained from Messrs. Baird and Tatlock , and was made by Chance 's process .
Though we made no chemical tests of its purity , we have reason to believe that the impurities present , if any , exert practically no influence on the boiling-point , as a large number of determinations made at Kew showed no systematic difference in the behaviour of several different samples .
Additional evidence of the purity of the sulphur used is afforded by the remarkable steadiness of the temperature of the vapour , when once the equilibrium is established .
Three independent values for the boiling-point of sulphur were obtained under different circumstances .
To the first of these , obtained from the preliminary comparisons of thermometer K.9 with the gas thermometer with reservoir of " verre dur , " we attach less weight than to the two subsequent ones , where K.8 and K.9 were compared with the gas thermometer fitted with the porcelain reservoir more suited for high temperatures .
We discuss the observations of the later series , taken with K.8 , as an example of the method of reduction followed .
The determinations made with this thermometer of the platinum temperature of the boiling-point of sulphur were eight in number , the corresponding pressures varying from 755 to 762 millims. It is obvious that , from the experiments themselves , the platinum temperature corresponding to 760 millims. could be deduced by the method of least squares , but a formula for the variation of the boiling-point with pressure deduced from so few experiments would , however , be liable to error .
We , therefore , * This form of protector is due to Heycock and Neville , and is described in their paper in ' Trans. Chem. Soc./ 1895 , p. 197 .
t Iir the use of this apparatus there are several precautions to be observed essential for good results .
The liquid sulphur in the Meyer tube must extend to some few centimetres above the base plate of the apparatus .
The gas burner should preferably be a large solid-flame bunsen , and the flame should be screened from draughts by asbestos-card or by a number of firebricks surrounding the apparatus .
The cones are attached to the thermometer by fine iron wire .
The asbestos becomes very hard on cooling , but , if , after use , the adhering sulphur is burnt off , the cones can be rendered sufficiently pliable to serve for several determinations .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
attempted to collect further evidence on the subject , before proceeding to the final reduction of our results .
Callendar and Griffiths in re-determining the boiling-point of sulphur made no attempt to deduce any formula for the variation of this point with pressure , and , in their subsequent work , apply the one deduced by Regnault from his observations made in 1862 .
As the results of this investigation of Regnault have been differently interpreted by several observers , it may be worth while here to state exactly what experiments Regnault made on the subject .
The primary object of his work was to determine the influence of large variations of pressure on the boiling-points of a number of substances , rather than to deduce formulae representing accurately over a limited range the variation for each substance .
He made altogether eight experiments with sulphur at pressures between 250 and 3000 millims. , the four nearest to the standard pressure of 760 millims. being as follows :\#151 ; Temperature on air scale .
Pressure in millims. 418'-70 467-45 440-30 679-97 447-71 763-04 485-61 1308-54 In the carrying out of these experiments Regnault says he had considerable difficulty , due to violent boiling and also to superheating of the vapour , especially at high pressures .
From the eight experiments Regnault calculated a formula for the change of temperature with pressure over the whole range ; from this Griffiths finds the value of dt/ dpat 760 millims. to be 0*082 .
It happens , however , that the experiment made at 763 millims. is one , the result of which diverges more from the calculated value than almost any other , and therefore the value to be taken as the boiling-point at 760 millims. is appreciably uncertain .
The most probable value for this point , as deduced from these observations of Regnault , is given by different authorities as 448''38 , 448''34 , and 447c'48 .
In view of this uncertainty , and also of the fact that the Meyer tube apparatus is so entirely different in its construction from that employed by Regnault , we deemed it advisable to obtain some further evidence as to the validity of the application of Regnault 's value of dt/ dp to our experiments .
As our own observations happened to be all made within a small pressure range , we selected from the records of the platinum thermometers in regular use at Kew Observatory , the results of the different determinations of the sulphur-point made with thermometers K. 1 and K.3 , and from these , calculated by least squares for each thermometer a formula representing the o 2 variation of pt with pressure , from which , by combination with the known value of d.ptldt , we obtained two concordant values for at 760 millims. The mean of these values coincided sufficiently nearly with that of Regnault to justify us in adopting the latter for present purposes , and the reduction of our observations to normal pressure is therefore based on the assumption of his value.* We found that for the thermometers K.8 and K.9 the value of d.ptjdt , at the sulphur point , was practically identical with the mean of those previously obtained for the older thermometers , and by assuming this number and combining it with the value calculated from Regnault 's experiments for we obtained for K.8 and K.9 .
From this the value of pt " the platinum temperature of the sulphur vapour at 760 millims. , was then calculated for each experiment , and the mean value for each series taken .
The platinum temperatures found in these comparisons made with each thermometer near the point 445 ' , and their corresponding values on the nitrogen scale , were then treated by least squares , to obtain from them the nitrogen temperature equivalent to the value of pts found previously .
Various formulae for this calculation were tried , the most suitable one being found to be T , = x -f y ( pt \#151 ; pt , ) pt , )2 where Ts is the nitrogen temperature sought corresponding to and y and z are constants , t In this calculation for thermometer K.8 were included the seven experiments numbered 85 to 91 in the table , and in the calculation weights were assigned to the individual experiments according to the constancy of the temperature .
On substituting in the original equations of condition the greatest residual was found to be 0''034 , showing a satisfactory concordance between the values for Ts given by the different comparisons .
* Although we do not wish to give the formula we calculated from the observations made at Kew as the outcome of a new determination of dtjdp for sulphur , yet it may be worth while to give an idea of the kind of agreement between the value found and that of Regnault , which we adopted for the reduction of our observations .
The experiments with thermometer K.l were made between the extremes of pressure 747 and 773 millims. , but the majority of them were only very slightly removed from 760 millims. The series with K.3 was better adapted for the purpose of deducing a formula , the observations being distributed fairly evenly over the range 747 to 769 millims. These two sets of experiments were made by Mr. Hugo , Senior Assistant at Kew Observatory .
If Ts be the boiling-point under 760 millims. pressure , we have for the value at 755 millims. from the formulae deduced from Regnault , and from thermometers K.l and K.3 , the values ( Ts- '41 )J , ( Tg- '43 ) , and ( Tg - '42 ) ' , respectively .
t For another method of arriving at the value of pt and the corresponding Ts leading to a mean result slightly different from that here given , see Appendix II .
, added while the paper was in press .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
From the different series of experiments from which a value can be deduced by this method we have 0 1st Series K.9 and glass reservoir Ts = 445*27 2nd , , K.9 , , porcelain , , Ts = 445*26 3rd " K.8 " " " T , = 445*29 Mean ... ... ... ... ... = 445*27 Although we think that the extremely close agreement of these values is to some extent fortuitous , and may give an exaggerated idea of the accuracy attained in our experiments , we think that until more is known concerning the expansion at high temperatures of the material used as thermometric reservoir , 445'*27 may be taken as a close approximation to the temperature attained by the vapour of pure sulphur boiling freely under a pressure of 760 millims. apparatus above described .
Whether this represents the true temperature , or whether the indications of the thermometer are affected to any appreciable extent by radiation and other disturbing influences , we have not attempted to consider in detail .
We contented ourselves with ascertaining that the form of apparatus we used is capable of giving consistent results , and that the temperature attained in it by the vapour after the steady state has been reached really alters with the barometric pressure .
We noticed that the barometer we used , and those platinum thermometers which were provided with glass envelopes , appeared to follow changes at very nearly the same rate .
Considering that the observations of the boiling-point were only made when the barometer appeared to be fairly steady , we think that any error in the measurement of the corresponding temperatures and pressures due to difference of lag of the two instruments must have been very small .
XLIII .
Reduction of Results to Normal Scale .
In view of the lack of data as to the difference between the various gas scales at high temperatures , we are unable to reduce the results of our comparisons , and the value found for the boiling-point of sulphur , to what they would have been on the scale of the hydrogen thermometer.# * [ Footnote added December 1 , 1899.\#151 ; From the study of the different gas scales previously made by one of us , it appears that between 0 ' and 100 ' the point of maximum difference between the hydrogen and nitrogen scales is at 40 ' , where the nitrogen thermometer reads higher by 0o-01 .
At 100 ' the difference between the two scales becomes zero by definition , and above that temperature it changes sign and has a value which appears not to exceed 0o , l below 600 ' .
The scale of the constant volume nitrogen thermometer appears not to be independent of the initial pressure ; if we may judge by the variation of the coefficient \#151 ; -f- , which approaches that of hydrogen at as the pressure diminishes , we may assume that the difference between the scales of the nitrogen and DRS .
J. A. BARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON A Nor is it efisy to Rpply to the results on the nitrogen scale the correction necessary to bring them to what should have been found had we been able to employ an initial pressure of 1 metre instead of 528 millims. As has been pointed out , all our gas temperatures are referred to the constant-volume scale .
The connection between this and the constant-pressure scale , and the corrections to be applied to each to reduce them to the absolute gas scale , have been calculated by Lord Kelvin and Dr. Joule from their experiments on the flow of gases through porous plugs .
Various formulae giving this correction have , however , been proposed by Kelvin and Joule themselves , and by others .
In a recent paper by Kose-Innes * a type of formula is deduced from the same observations , which applies to the results found with all the three gases experimented upon by Kelvin and Joule .
Rose-InnesI says , " To the degree of approximation to which we are working , therefore , there is no thermodynamic correction needed for a constant-volume gas thermometer .
There may be a correction involving squares of small quantities , which would appear on a nearer approximation .
Such a correction , however , would not be worth taking into account in the case of a thermometer constructed with air or hydrogen , as the unavoidable errors of experiment would certainly be much larger than the correction .
" Our result for the boiling-point of sulphur is about 00,7 higher than that of Callendar and Griffiths , but it may be well to point out here that the two values are not necessarily inconsistent .
The value of Callendar and Griffiths is given as 444''53 for the boiling-point of sulphur on the air , the air being taken under an initial pressure of 7 6 centims. Our value 4450,27 we give as the equivalent of the same temperature on the scale of the constant-volume nitrogen thermometer , the nitrogen being taken under the initial pressure of 528 millims. It is impossible , we think , at present to say from hydrogen thermometers varies directly as the initial pressure .
Consequently , in the comparisons between 100 ' and 200 ' , where the initial pressure was about 800 millims. , the difference between the two scales would be diminished to about four-fifths , and in the comparisons between 200 ' and 455 ' to about half of what it would have been with an initial pressure of one metre .
We may also remark that the coefficient of dilatation of air under constant pressure a - 0-003 674 9 , determined by Callendar and Griffiths and employed by them to calculate the temperatures in their observations , is sensibly higher than that which results from the experiments of Regnaui .
T , a = 0-003 670 0 , or the value obtained some time ago by one of us , a = 0-003 670 8 .
The adoption of these latter values would raise the result of Callendar and Griffiths about half a degree .
] * 'Phil .
Mag. , ' March , 1898 .
t Lor .
dt .
, p. 293 .
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
theory what difference should be found between the results in the two cases .
Callendar and Griffiths point out , however , that the few observations they made , using their instrument as a constant-volume thermometer , gave a result for the sulphur point about half a degree higher than that found on the constant-pressure scale .
If confirmed , this would account for more than half of the difference between the two results .
It may be of interest to calculate what differences there would be between temperatures expressed on Callendar 's air scale and the same temperatures on the nitrogen scale based on the adoption of our value for the boiling-point of sulphur , and on the validity of the 8 formula .
The adoption of the new value for the sulphur boiling-point\#151 ; 0P*74 higher than that of Callendar and Griffiths\#151 ; would raise a 8 of 1'500 to 1*5423 .
The differences between the temperatures deduced by admitting the validity of the parabolic formula in each case are shown in the following table :\#151 ; T( . . . .
-50 ' 0 ' 25 ' 50 ' 75 ' 100 ' 200 ' 400 ' 600 ' 1000 ' T( , eif ) - T(Ca " .
) .
+0-03 0 ' -0'-008 -0-011 -O'OOB 0 ' + 0'-09 + 0'-57 +1'-5 +5\3 .
From the results of our comparisons Ave might calculate a formula giving the magnitude of a small corrective term to be applied to the temperatures as deduced by the parabolic formula to reduce them to the scale of our nitrogen thermometer .
This correction , hoAvever , is not the same for the different platinum thermometers Ave used , and an examination of the differences given in Column VIII .
of the tables shows that in some places the corrective terms for the two thermometers differ by a quantity of about the same order as the corrections themselves .
Since , as we have previously explained , our own nitrogen scale is someAvhat arbitrary , and its relation to the normal scale of the hydrogen thermometer is only known over a small part of the range covered by the experiments , Ave would suggest that , for the present , temperatures deduced by the platinum thermometer should be reduced by a parabolic formula .
The results thus obtained can always be recalculated and expressed on any scale which may subsequently be adopted as the standard scale for high temperatures .
Although we found it impossible to use hydrogen at high temperatures in our gas thermometer with glass reservoir owing to some chemical action taking place between it and the glass , yet it is quite possible that a suitable material may be found for the construction of a thermometer reservoir in Avhich this gas may be employed at high temperatures .
Until further investigations have been made as to the relations of the various gas scales at high temperatures , and as to the influence of the initial pressure and the effect of impurities and traces of water vapour in the gases employed , and until exact determinations have been made up to high temperatures of the coefficient of expansion of the material used as thermometric reservoir , Ave think that for the purposes of high range thermometry a scale deduced by the parabolic formula from that of the platinum thermometer Avill suffice .
In the present state of our knowledge any attempt to improve on such a thermometric scale would be attended with such uncertainties as would probably render it futile .
XLIV .
Conclusion .
In conclusion , the authors are desirous of expressing their obligation to Dr. Benoit , Director of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures , to Professor Carey Foster , Chairman of the Kew Observatory Sub-Committee on Thermometry , and to Dr. Chree , Superintendent of the Observatory , for continued advice and help throughout the whole of their work .
For the loan of several pieces of apparatus they are indebted to Professor Schuster of Manchester , and to M. Broca of the Ecole de Medecine , Paris , and for help with the calculations to M. Maudet and to Mdlles .
de Bauller and Junot , Assistants at the Bureau International , and to all these they tender their sincere thanks .
VOL. CXCIV .
Table I.\#151 ; Summary of Experiments with Thermometer K.8 .
S = T5435 .
N0TE.\#151 ; In the column headed " Observed value on gas scale , " for the experiments 1-20 the gas referred to is hydrogen ; for all subsequent experiments , nitrogen is intended .
I. !
Reference number .
ii .
Number in book .
III .
Date of experiment .
IV .
pt .
v- d. VI .
Calculated value on nitrogen scale .
VII .
Observed value of gas scale .
VIII .
Difference calculated- observed .
IX .
Change of temperature during experiment .
1 centim. = -04 ' , approximately .
First Series.\#151 ; Compai dsons against mi ercury thermometers in alee \gt ; hol bath .
1897 1 20 Dec. 7 -23-897 + .448 - 23-449 -23-446 -.003 First half fall 5 centims. , second half constant 2 19 " 14 -19-479 + .352 -19-127 -19-134 + .007 Small oscillations 3 18 , , 7 -10-851 + .182 -10-669 -10-672 + .003 Fall 2| centims. Second Series.--Comparisons against mercury thermometers in water bath .
1 1897 4 17 Nov. 15 + 2-133 -.032 2-101 + 2-096 + .005 Rise 2 centims. 5 16 " 8 ... . . . . . . . . .
Excluded on account of moisture being discovered in the thermometer 6 8 Sept. 23 5-204 -075 5-129 + 5-113 + .016 Very slow fall , then rise 7 15 Nov. 15 7-488 -.106 7-382 + 7-364 + .018 Slow rise 1"5 centim. 8 6 Sept. '6 10-300 -.140 10-160 1 +10-144 + .016 Slow rise , then fall .
Compensation 9 7 \#187 ; 6 15-050 -.196 14-854 + 14-843 + .011 Rise 2-| centims. 10 1 Aug. 24 ... ... ... Excluded on account of being done without reversing the battery current 11 3 Sept. 4 20-941 -.253 20-688 + 20-676 + .012 Rise 3^ centims. 12 2 Aug. 28 25-350 -.291 25-059 + 25-050 + .009 Slow fall , then rise 4 centims. 13 12 Nov. 9 25-520 -.292 25-228 + 25-217 + .011 Very small oscillations 14 i 13 1 c " 10 30-410 -.326 30-084 + 30-072 + -012 ; Very small oscillations 15 5 Sept. 4 36-210 -.356 35-854 !
+ 35-855 - -ooi Rise 4-5 centims. 16 i hr 4 \#187 ; 4 41-543 -.375 41-168 + 41-172 -.004 Compensation 17 14 Nov. 11 50-425 -.386 50-038 + 50-037 : + .001 Very small oscillations Third Series.\#151 ; Comparisons against mercury thermometers in oil bath .
1897 18 10 Oct. 28 59-553 -.373 59-180 + 59-181 -.001 Rise 2 centims. 19 O A 11 " 28 70-582 -.323 70-259 + 70-262 -.003 Small oscillations 20 9 " 16 78-397 -.264 78-133 + 78-141 -.008 Rise 2 centims. COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Table I. ( continued).\#151 ; Summary of Experiments with Thermometer K.8 .
8 = 1'5435 .
Note .
\#151 ; In the column headed " Observed value on gas scale , " for the experiments 1-20 the gas referred to is hydrogen for all subsequent experiments , nitrogen is intended .
I. Reference number .
II .
Number in book .
III .
Date of experiment .
IV .
pt .
V. d. VI .
Calculated value on nitrogen scale .
VII .
Observed value on gas scale .
VIII .
Difference calculated- observed .
IX .
Change of temperature during experiment .
1 centim. = -04 ' , approximately .
1 1898 Fourth Series.\#151 ; Con Lparisons againsl : nitrogen thei I -mometer in c dl bath .
21 23 Mar. 24 88-934 -.154 88-780 88-776 i + .004 Rise P6 centim. 22 22 " 24 89-120 -.152 88-968 88-961 + .007 Rise 2-1 centims. 23 60 May 21 89-880 ... ... Error made in registration of results .
Cannot be traced 24 54 " 17 89-881 -.142 89-739 89-746 !
- -007 Very small fall 25 41 Apr. 1 94-780 -.007 94-703 94-710 -.007 Rise P2 centim. 26 21 Mar. 23 99-413 -.009 99-404 99-400 + .004 Constant 27 24 " 24 | 99-418 -.009 99-409 99-435 -.026 Very small changes .
Compensated 28 42 Apr. 1 99-486 -.009 99-478 99-495 -.017 Constant 29 40 " 1 99-543 -.007 99-536 99-543 -.007 Constant 30 47 May 14 99-641 -.005 99-636 99-624 + .012 Very small fall .
Done with wrong battery resistance 31 48 " 16 99-844 -.002 99-842 99-834 + .008 Constant 32 50 " 16 99-848 -.002 99-846 99-848 -.002 Fall 1 centim. 33 53 " 17 99-848 -.002 99-846 99-849 - -003 Very small changes 34 49 " 16 104-904 + .082 104-986 105-000 -.014 Very small rise 35 43 Apr. 1 105-102 + .086 105-188 105-194 -.006 Very small changes 36 25 Mar. 24 108-225 + .141 108-366 108-389 -.023 Very small changes 37 28 " 26 109-635 + .167 109-802 109-783 + .019 Very small fall 38 46 Apr. 2 110-111 + .176 110-287 110-273 + .014 Very constant 39 51 May 16 110-302 + .180 110-482 110-477 + .005 Small fall 40 44 Apr. 1 111-870 + .210 112-080 112-078 + .002 Slow rise , 1*3 centim. 41 45 " 2 114-699 + .266 114-965 114-954 + .011 Very constant 42 52 May 16 114-786 + .267 115-053 115039 + .014 Very constant 43 27 Mar. 25 115-365 + .281 115-646 115-638 + .008 Very small oscillations 44 26 " 24 115-427 1 + .282 115-709 115-725 -.016 Small fall , then rise .
Compensated 106 DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPULS ON A Table I. ( continued).\#151 ; Summary of Experiments with Thermometer K.8 .
1*5435 .
Note.\#151 ; In the column headed " Observed value on gas scale , " for the experiments 1-20 the gas referred to is hydrogen ; for all subsequent experiments , nitrogen is intended .
I. II .
III .
IY .
Y. YI .
VII .
VIII .
IX .
Reference Number Date of j ; f d Calculated Ycllu6 on Observed value on Difference calculated- Change of temperature during experiment .
number .
in book .
experiment .
l'1 * nitrogen scale .
gas scale .
observed .
1 ceritim .
= -04 ' , approximately .
Fourth Series ( continued).- \#151 ; Comparisons s igainst nitroge n thermomete ; r in oil bath .
i 1898 45 31 Mar. 26 118*957 + -354 119-311 119-258 + .053 Rise " 8 centim. 46 37 !
" 30 119*631 + -370 120-001 119-972 + .029 Rise 1"8 centim. 47 55 May 20 119*708 + -371 120-079 120-033 + .046 Very small oscillations 48 30 Mar. 26 127*540 + -557 128-097 128-042 + .055 Very small rise 49 56 May 20 128-968 + -593 129-560 129-527 + *034 Constant 50 38 Mar. 30 129-748 + -612 130-360 130-306 + .054 Constant 51 29 " 26 137-315 + -815 138*130 138-042 + .088 Very slow rise 52 57 May 20 137-670 + -825 138-496 138-456 + .040 Very slow rise 53 62 " 21 138-328 + -843 139-171 139-137 + .034 Very slow rise 54 39 Mar. 30 138-793 + -856 139-650 139-603 + .047 Constant 55 58 May 20 145-465 + 1-053 146-518 146-480 + .038 Rise -8 centim. 56 36 Mar. 30 147*706 + 1-122 148-828 148-779 + .049 Very small changes .
Compensated 57 34 , , 30 150-296 + 1-205 151-501 151-446 + .055 Very small changes .
Compensated 58 32 , , 28 152-542 + 1-279 153-821 153*769 + *052 Fall 1-2 centim. 59 59 May 20 154*639 + 1-351 155-990 155-940 + .050 Fall 2-5 centims. 60 61 " 21 154-692 + 1-352 156-044 156-020 + .024 Rise 1*5 centim. 61 !
63 " 21 158-953 + 1-499 160-452 160*429 + .023 Fall 1 centim. 62 33 Mar. 29 159-333 + 1-512 160-845 160-788 + .057 Very constant 63 a. a 35 a a , , 30 159-891 + 1-531 161-422 161-384 + .038 Very small changes .
Compensated o4 64 May 23 168-019 + 1-833 169-852 169-812 + .040 Rise 1 centim. 65 69 " 24 173-654 + 2-054 175-708 175-691 + .017 Very slow fall 66 r* \gt ; 7 67 , , 24 180-514 + 2-341 182*855 182-823 + .032 Rise 5-3 centims. 6/ aq 65 AQ , , 23 180-691 + 2-346 183-037 182-989 + *048 Small changes .
Compensated Do aq Do AA \gt ; \gt ; 24 186-027 + 2-581 188*608 188*608 + .000 Small changes .
Compensated Oi ?
OO , , 23 187-970 + 2-670 190-640 190-624 + .016 Rise 5 centims. COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Table I. ( continued).\#151 ; Summary of Experiments with Thermometer K.8 .
8 = 1*5435 .
Note.\#151 ; In the column headed " Observed value on gas scale , " for the experiments 1-20 the gas referred to is hydrogen ; for all subsequent experiments , nitrogen is intended .
I. Reference number .
| II .
Number in book .
III .
Date of experiment .
IV .
pt .
1 V. d. VI .
Calculated value of nitrogen scale .
VII .
Observed value on gas scale .
VIII .
Difference calculated- observed .
IX .
Change of temperature during experiment .
1 centim. = -04 ' , approximately .
Fifth 1 Series.\#151 ; Com 1898 i parisons again st glass reservoir gas thermo meter in nitra te bath .
Gas i thermometer bulb in steel tube .
70 72 June 21 275-77 + 8-06 283-83 283-88 -.05 Fall 4-7 centims. 71 70 " 20 321-10 + 11-98 333-08 332-91 + .17 First half rise 7 centims. , second half rise 1 centim. 72 71 " 21 339-69 + 13-84 353-53 353-36 + .17 Rise 3'6 centims. , then slow fall Sixth Series.\#151 ; Comparisons against porcelain reservoir gas thermometer in nitrate bath .
Both thermometers in steel tubes .
1898 | !
1 !
73 77 i Nov. 14 236-839 i 5-31 : 242-14 242-10 + .04 Fall 6 centims. 74 78 " 14 239-561 ; 5-49 245-05 245-02 + .03 Slow fall , then rapid rise 6-7 centims. 75 80 " 14 291-883 9-35 301-24 301-22 + .02 Very constant 76 79 " 14 291-907 9-36 301-26 301-23 + .03 Rise 3'4 centims. 77 74 " 12 312-259 11-16 323-42 323-28 + .14 Fall 1*2 centim. 78 73 " 12 312-336 i 11-16 323-50 323-36 + .14 Very small oscillations 79 76 " 12 333-718 13-22 346-93 346-78 + .15 Steady , second half rise 2-5 centims. 80 75 " 12 334-300 13-28 347-58 347-43 + .15 Fall 2-2 centims. 81 82 " 15 347-937 14-70 362-64 362-53 + .11 Slow fall , then rise 1*2 centim. 82 81 " 15 !
348-706 14-79 363-49 363-39 + .10 Slow fall , then slow rise 1*5 centim. 83 84 " 15 392-778 19-93 412-71 412-65 + .06 Very slow rise " 4 centim. 84 83 " 15 393-858 20-07 413-92 414-04 -.08 Small oscillations 85 85 , , 16 414-472 22-75 437-23 437-15 + .08 Large rise 9 centims. 86 86 " 16 414-851 22-81 437-66 437-61 + .05 Fall 2*6 centims. , then rise 2 centims. 87 88 1 17 419-563 23-46 443-02 443-06 -.04 Rise 3 centims. 88 89 !
" 17 419-972 23-52 443-49 443-52 -.03 Rise 7'5 centims. 89 90 " 17 422085 23-81 445-89 445-87 + .02 Very slow fall , -5 centim. 90 91 " 17 422-107 23-81 445-92 445-89 + .03 Very constant 91 87 " 16 430-681 25-06 455-74 455-54 + .20 Rise 3 centims. 108 DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON Table II.\#151 ; Summary of Comparisons with Platinum Thermometer K.9 .
S = 1-5472 .
Note.\#151 ; In the column headed " Observed value on gas scale , " for experiments 1-6 the gas referred to is for all subsequent experiments , nitrogen is intended .
I. Reference number .
II .
Number in book .
III .
Date of experiment .
IV .
ft. V. d. VI .
Calculated value on nitrogen scale .
VII .
Observed value on gas scale .
VIII .
Difference calculated- observed .
IX .
Change of temperature during experiment .
1 centim. = -2 ' , approximately .
I 'irst Series.\#151 ; -Comparisons ag ainst mercury thermometer , * 3 .
1898 1 19 June 3 10-242 - -140 10-102 10-090 + .012 Small changes .
Compensation 2 20 " 3 20-023 - -245 19-778 19-774 + .004 Rise 4*4 centims. 3 21 " 4 30-149 - -323 29-826 29-819 + .007 Small rise , then steady 4 22 " 4 40-378 - -371 40-007 40-004 + -003 Compensation 5 23 " 4 50-278 - -386 49-892 49-901 -.009 Compensation 6 24 " 4 60-203 - -370 59-833 59-842 -.009 Rise 2 centims. in each half Second Series.\#151 ; Compari sons against gla ss reservoir gas thermometer in oil bath .
1898 1 ' 7 12 June 1 68-493 - -334 68-159 68-171 -.012 Small changes .
Compensation 8 9 " 1 80-552 - -245 80-307 80-314 -.007 Rise 2 centims. 9 10 " 1 90-023 - -140 89-883 89-901 -.018 Rise 1'5 centim. 10 6 May 31 99-072 - -014 99-058 99-068 -.010 Very constant 11 11 June 1 99-158 - -012 99-146 99-179 -.033 Very small rise 12 7 May 31 109-006 + -156 109-162 109-174 -.012 Very small rise 13 14 8 13 " 31 June 2 116-271 + -300 116-571 116-577 -.006 Very small fall 15 14 " 2 128-458 + -581 129-039 129-050 -.011 Fall 1*5 centim. 16 18 \#187 ; 2 138-790 + -858 139-648 139-667 -.019 Large fall , 8*7 centims. 17 15 \#187 ; 2 140-660 + -910 141-570 141-588 -.018 Very small rise 18 16 \#187 ; 2 149-374 + 1-177 150-551 150-591 -.040 Rise 2 centims. 19 17 " 2 157-548 + 1-451 158-999 159-040 -.041 Fall 2^ centims. 20 5 May 31 172-575 + 2-014 174-589 174-565 + .024 Slight fall 21 3 " 30 176-415 + 2-169 178-584 178-554 + .030 Large rise , 8 centims. 22 4 , , 31 181-023 + 2-365 183-388 183-387 + .001 Very slow fall 23 1 3 ?
30 181-301 + 2-377 183-678 183-640 + .038 Nearly compensated 24 2 33 30 ] 185-179 + 2-545 187-724 187-744 -.020 Very constant O O g \gt ; b-I 02 o O tr1 t\gt ; H3 t\#151 ; i cj \gt ; S O Q 02 w w fO 5 o m w 02 O Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; Summary of Comparisons with Platinum Thermometer K.9 .
8 = 1*5472 .
Note.__In the column headed " Observed value on gas scale , " for experiments 1-6 the gas referred to is hydrogen ; for all subsequent experiments , nitrogen is intended .
I. Reference number .
ii .
Number in book .
III .
Date of experiment .
IV .
pt .
e- VI .
Calculated value on nitrogen scale .
VII .
Observed value on gas scale .
VIII .
Difference calculated- observed .
IX .
Change of temperature during experiment .
1 centim. = *2 ' , approximately .
Third S eries.\#151 ; Comp arisons againsi glass reservoir gas thermom teter in nitrate i bath .
Gas t hermometer bulb only in steel tube .
1898 25 28 June 18 251-49 + 6-28 257-77 257-79 -.02 Slow fall 26 29 " 18 297-09 + 9-82 306-91 306-97 -.06 Compensated 27 30 " 18 346-77 + 14-61 361-38 361-40 -.02 Fall 4 centims. 28 31 " 18 385-58 + 19-08 404-64 404-75 -.11 Fall 2| centims. 29 32 " 18 416-00 + 23-02 439-02 439-13 -.11 Fall 6 centims. 30 25 , , 17 416-61 + 23-10 439-71 439-86 -.15 Compensated 31 27 " 17 417-32 + 23-21 440-53 440-45 + .08 Compensated 32 26 " 17 1 425-31 + 24-32 449-63 449-53 + .10 Large fall , 9 centims. Fourth Series.\#151 ; Comparisons against porcelain reservoir gas thermometer in nitrate bath .
Both thermometers in steel tubes .
1898 33 38 Oct. 26 241-380 + 5-617 247-00 246-94 + .06 Rise 4-2 centims. 34 39 " 26 246-664 + 5-953 252-62 252-50 + .12 Rise 7-8 centims. 35 40 " 26 247-516 + 6-012 253-53 253-43 + .10 Rise 7*8 centims. 36 41 " 26 247-800 + 6-030 253-83 253-74 + .09 Rise 5-7 centims. 37 42 " 27 280-625 + 8-458 289-08 288-97 + .11 Very constant 38 43 " 27 284-328 + 8-751 293-08 292-86 + .22 Rise 2 centims. 39 45 | " 27 317-138 + 11-641 328-78 328-56 + .22 Compensated 40 44 i " 27 317-333 + 11-660 328-99 328-76 + .23 Compensated 41 33 " 25 318-402 + 11-759 330-16 329-88 + .28 Large rise , 13-7 centims. 42 34 !
" 25 319-484 + 11-861 331-34 331-08 + .26 Rise 5*5 centims. 43 35 i \gt ; \gt ; 25 319-523 + 11-864 331-39 331-13 + .26 Very constant 44 46 28 349-749 + 14-933 364-68 364-43 + .25 Very constant 45 47 " 28 349-764 + 14-936 364-70 364-46 + .24 Slight fall 46 49 " 28 386-868 + 19-241 406-11 405-92 + .19 Slow rise , 2 centims. 47 48 " 28 386-999 + 19-256 406-26 406-09 + .17 Fall 6-4 centims. 48 36 " 25 397-090 + 20-523 417-61 417*28 + .33 Very small rise 49 37 " 25 398-380 + 20-657 419-04 418-70 + .34 Fast rise , 10 centims. 50 52 " 29 408-348 + 21-986 430-33 430-25 + .08 Fall 5 centims. 51 53 " 29 408-587 + 22-020 430-61 430-49 + .12 Rise 4'7 centims. 52 50 " 29 424-922 + 24-262 449-18 449-12 + .06 Very slight fall 53 51 " 29 i 426-258 + 24-447 450-70 450-58 + .12 Constant lio DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON A Table III.\#151 ; Summary of Observations with Platinum Thermometer K.2 .
8 = 1*554 .
I. 1 Reference | number .
II .
Number in book .
III .
Date .
IV .
pt .
V. d. VI .
T calculated on nitrogen scale .
VII .
T observed on nitrogen scale .
VIII .
Calculated- observed .
IX .
Constancy of temperature in the experiment .
1 centim. = -2 ' , approximately .
1 4 1898 Dec. 16 40341 + 21-41 424-52 424-27 + .25 Steady , then rise of -8 centim. 2 5 " 16 430-62 + 25-20 455-82 455-60 + .22 Fall -5 centim. , then steady 3 10 " 16 431-25 + 25-29 456-54 456 36 + .18 Fall in first half 1 centim. , in second 4 9 " 13 437-34 + 26-18 463-52 463-17 + .35 .7 centim. Rise 2-3 centim. 5 7 " 13 437-72 + 26-24 463-96 463-52 + *44 Constant 6 8 " 15 447-48 + 27-70 475-18 475-04 + .14 Slow rise 7 11 \#187 ; 14 489-20 + 34-48 523-68 523-42 + .26 Fall *4 centim. , then rise *9 centim. 8 12 \#187 ; 14 490-55 + 34-71 525-26 525-05 + .21 Fall 1'4 centim. 9 6 \#187 ; 13 493-77 + 35-26 529-03 528-62 + .41 Fall -2 centim. , then rise 1 centim. 10 3 " 13 494-64 + 35-42 530-06 529-68 + .38 Rise 2-3 centims. , then fall .
Compensated 11 2 \#187 ; 14 541-92 + 44-29 586-21 586-05 + .16 Fall 1*6 centim. 12 1 1 " 14 542-23 + 44-35 586-58 586-46 + .12 Rise 2-5 centims. , then fall -5 centim. o o \#163 ; \gt ; w o * t"1 \gt ; H cj izj y Q \gt ; U1 H S3 SO g o S S3 H S3 APPENDIX I. With a view to facilitating the calculations involved in platinum thermometry , we give , as an appendix , several tables calculated by Mdlle .
de Batjller and M. Maudet , of the Bureau International , which have proved of great utility during our work .
of this quantity into a number of different values of 8 .
It is used for deducing from given values of T. Table II .
is for the resolution of the converse problem , and gives T corresponding to different values of pt for thermometers having a 8 between 1'54 and P57 .
At the side are given differences for interpolation between the whole degrees .
Table III .
is for the reduction of the steam points , and is extracted from the table calculated by M. Brooch from the results of Regnault for the boiling-point of water under different pressures .
Table IV .
is for reducing to its equivalent in mercury pressure the excess of pressure of the steam in a boiling-point determination , as measured in millimetres of water .
Table V. is for converting to the platinum scale the temperature of the steam as obtained from Table III .
As an example of the use of some of these tables , we give the following :\#151 ; Let the resistance in ice of a certain platinum thermometer whose 8 = 1*500 be 2*57827 ohms , and let its resistance in steam be 3*57298 ohms , the barometric height at the time , corrected for temperature and reduced to sea level and latitude 45 ' , being 749*96 millims. , and the excess of the steam pressure over that of the atmosphere being 1*8 millim. of water .
Find the resistance corresponding to 100 ' .
From Table IV .
the mercury pressure corresponding to 1*8 millim. of water =0*13 millim. Adding this to the barometric height we obtain 750*09 millims. as the total pressure of the steam .
Then from Table III .
we obtain , as the temperature of the steam at this pressure , 99'*6343 .
For 8 = 1*500 we find from Table V. that the platinum temperature corresponding to 99'*6343 is 99'*6343 + 0'*0055 = 99'*6398 .
Table I. gives from \#151 ; 40 ' to 460 ' the values product COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Therefore the change of resistance between the platinum temperatures 0 ' and 99'*6398 is .
And so F.I. ( the fundamental interval , i.e. , the change between 0 ' and 100 ' ) Therefore , resistance at P00 ' ... ... ... ... ... .
Ohms .
( 3-57298 \#151 ; 2-57827 ) = 0-99471 0-99471 x 100 \#151 ; 99-6398 " = 0998 31 ... ... ... ... ... ... = 3-57658 We append also the various formulae showing the relations of each ot the four quantities T , pt , d , and 8 to the others , viz.:\#151 ; d EE T \#151 ; S 7-LY Aioo/ T 1 / 5000 , \ / /5000 \2 - 100J = ( ~s " + 50 ) - v ( t + 50 ) lOOOOptf T = pt + d = ( ~ + 50 ) - V 5000 10000^ 8 + 50 j g ~ ' pt \#151 ; T \#151 ; d = T \#151 ; S ( T- ) \iooy T_ ' 100J * VOL. OXCIV.---A .
Q CO OC \#151 ; 7 O Appendix Table I.\#151 ; To find d for given values of T and Deduced from the formula T " 100_ * 0 ( .
JL)*- \#151 ; \100J 100 + 0-5600 + 0-4725 + 0-3900 + 0-3125 + 0-2400 + 0-1725 + 0-1100 + 0-0525 - 0-0000 - 0-0099 -0-0196 -00291 - 00384 - 0-0475 - 0-0564 - 00651 - 0-0736 -0-0819 - 0-0900 -0-0979 -0-1056 -01131 -0-1204 -01275 -0-1344 -0-1411 -0-1476 - 01539 -0-1600 -0-1659 -0-1716 77 -0-1771 76 -0-1824 75 j -0-1875 74 !
-0-1924 c = 1*500 .
1 5=1-510 .
5=1-520 .
1 5=1-530 .
| 5= 1-540 .
c \#151 ; 1 *550 , a= 1-560 .
a = 1-570 .
a =1-580 .
a =1-590 .
a =1-600 .
+ 0-8400 + 0-8456 + 0-8512 + 0-8568 + 0-8624 + 0-8680 + 0-8736 + 0-8792 + 0-8848 + 0-8904 + 0-8960 + 0-7087 + 0-7134 + 0-7182 + 0-7229 + 0-7276 + 0-7324 + 0-7371 + 0-7418 + 0-7465 + 0-7513 + 0-7560 + 0-5850 + 0-5889 + 0-5928 + 0-5967 + 0-6006 + 0-6045 + 0-6084 + 0-6123 + 0-6162 + 0-6201 + 0-6240 + 0-4687 + 0-4719 + 0-4750 + 0-4781 + 0-4812 I +0*4844 + 0-4875 + 0-4906 + 0-4937 + 0-4969 + 0-5000 + 0-3600 + 0-3624 + 0-3648 + 0-3672 + 0-3696 + 0-3720 + 0-3744 + 0-3768 + 0-3792 + 0-3816 + 0-3840 + 0-2587 + 0-2605 + 0-2622 + 0-2639 + 0-2656 + 0-2674 + 0-2691 + 0-2708 + 0-2725 + 0-2743 + 0-2760 + 0-1650 + 0-1661 + 0-1672 + 0-1683 + 0-1694 ; +0-1705 + 0-1716 + 0-1727 + 0-1738 + 0-1749 + 0-1760 + 0-0787 + 0-0793 + 0-0798 + 0-0803 + 0-0808 + 0-0814 + 0-0819 + 0-0824 + 0-0829 + 0-0835 + 0-0840 - 0-0000 - o-oooo - o-oooo - 0-0000 - 0-0000 - o-oooo - 0-0000 - o-oooo - o-oooo - 0-0000 - o-oooo -0-0148 -0-0149 -0-0150 -0-0151 -0-0152 -0*0153 -0-0154 - 0-0155 -0-0156 - 0-0157 -0-0158 i -0-0294 -0-0296 - 0-0298 - 0-0300 - 0-0302 - 0-0304 - 0-0306 - 0-0308 -00310 -0-0312 -0-0314 !
- 0-0436 - 0-0439 - 0-0442 - 0-0445 -0-0448 - 0-0451 - 0-0454 - 0-0457 - 0-0460 - 0-0463 - 0-0466 - 0-0576 - 0-0580 -0-0584 - 0-0588 -0-0591 - 0-0595 - 00599 - 0-0603 - 0-0607 -0-0611 -0-0614 -0-0712 -0-0717 -0-0722 - 0-0727 - 00731 !
-0-0736 - 0-0741 - 0-0746 - 0-0750 - 0-0755 - 0-0760 - 0-0846 -0-0852 - 0-0857 - 0-0863 - 0-0869 - 0-0874 - 0-0880 - 0-0885 -0*0891 - 0-0897 - 0-0902 - 0-0976 -0-0983 -0-0990 - 0-0996 -0*1003 -0-1009 -0-1016 -01022 -0-1029 -01035 -0-1042 - 01104 -0-1111 -0-1119 -0-1126 -01133 -01142 -0-1148 -0-1156 -0-1163 -0-1170 -0-1178 i -0-1228 -0-1237 - 01245 -0-1253 -0-1261 - 01269 -0-1278 -0-1286 -0*1294 -0-1302 -0-1310 !
- 01350 -0-1359 -0-1368 - 0-1377 -0-1386 -0*1395 -0-1404 -0-1413 -0-1422 -0-1431 -0-1440 ; -0-1468 -0-1478 -0-1488 -0-1498 -0-1508 -0-1517 - 01527 -0-1537 -0-1547 -0-1557 -0-1566 ; -0-1584 -0-1595 -0-1605 -0-1616 -0-1626 -0-1637 -0-1647 -0-1658 -0-1668 -0-1679 -0-1690 j -0-1696 -0-1708 -0-1719 -0-1730 -0-1742 -0-1753 -0-1764 -0-1776 -0-1787 -0-1798 -0-1810 j -0-1806 -0-1818 -0-1830 -0-1842 -0-1854 -0*1866 -0-1878 -0-1890 -0-1902 -0-1914 -0*1926 !
-01912 -0-1925 -0-1938 -0-1951 -0-1963 -0-1976 -0-1989 -0-2002 -0-2014 - 0-2027 -0-2040 : -0-2016 - 0-2029 - 0-2043 - 0-2056 - 0-2070 - 0-2083 - 0-2097 -0-2110 -0-2124 -0-2137 -0-2150 -0-2116 -0-2131 -0-2145 -0-2159 -0-2173 -0-2187 -0-2201 -0-2215 -0-2229 - 0-2243 -0-2258 -0-2214 -0-2229 -0-2244 -0-2258 -0-2273 -0-2288 - 0-2303 -0-2317 -0-2332 - 0-2347 -0-2362 - 0-2308 -0-2324 - 0-2339 -0-2355 -0-2370 - 0-2385 -0-2401 -0-2416 -0-2432 - 0-2447 -0-2462 i - 0-2400 -0-2416 -0-2432 - 0-2448 - 0-2464 - 0-2480 -0-2496 -0-2512 - 0-2528 - 0-2544 -0-2560 | - 0-2488 - 0-2505 - 0-2522 - 0-2538 - 0-2555 -0-2571 -0-2588 - 0-2605 -0-2621 -0-2638 -0-2654 !
- 0-2574 -0-2591 - 0-2608 - 0-2625 -0-2643 - 0-2660 -0-2677 -0-2694 -0-2711 - 0-2728 -0-2746 ' -0-2656 -0-2674 -0-2692 -0-2710 -0-2727 -0-2745 - 0-2763 - 0-2780 -0-2798 -0-2816 - 0-2834 - 0-2736 - 0-2754 -0-2772 -0-2791 - 0-2809 - 0-2827 - 0-2845 -0-2864 - 0-2882 - 0-2900 -0-2918 -0-2812 -0-2831 - 0-2850 -0-2869 - 0-2887 - 0-2906 -0-2925 - 0-2944 -0-2962 -0-2981 - 0-3000 -0-2886 - 0-2905 -0-2924 -0-2944 -0-2963 - 0*2982 - 0-3001 -0-3021 1 - 0-3040 -0-3059 j - 0-3078 114 DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON A Appendix Table I. ( continued).\#151 ; To find d for given values of T and S. Deduced from the formula S T. ( J-Y- \ioo/ ioo 8 = 1-500 .
8 = 1-510 .
8 = 1-520 .
8 = 1-530 .
8 = 1-540 .
8\#151 ; 1*550 .
8= 1-560 .
8 =1-570 .
o=l-580 .
o=l-590 .
I a=1-600 .
27 73 -0-1971 -0-2956 -0-2976 -0-2996 -0-3016 - 0-3035 - 0-3055 - 0-3075 - 0-3094 -0-3114 -0-3134 -0-3154 28 72 -0-2016 - 0-3024 -0-3044 -0-3064 - 0-3084 -0-3105 -0-3125 ' -0-3145 -0-3165 -0-3185 - 0-3205 -0-3226 29 71 - 0-2059 - 0-3088 -0-3109 -0-3130 -0-3150 -0-3171 -03191 -0-3212 -0-3233 -0-3253 -0-3274 -0-3294 30 70 -0-2100 -0-3150 -0-3171 -0-3192 -0-3213 -0-3234 -0-3255 - 0-3276 -0-3297 -0-3318 -0-3339 -0-3360 31 69 -0-2139 -0-3208 - 0-3230 -0-3251 -0-3273 -0-3294 -0-3315 -0*3337 - 0-3358 - 0-3380 -0-3401 - 0-3422 32 68 -0-2176 -0-3264 - 0-3286 - 0-3308 -0-3329 -0-3351 -0-3373 - 0-3395 -0-3416 - 0-3438 -0-3460 -0-3482 33 67 -0-2211 -0-3316 - 0-3339 -0-3361 -0-3383 - 0-3405 - 0-3427 - 0-3449 -0-3471 -0-3493 -0-3515 -0-3538 34 66 -0-2244 -0-3366 -0-3388 -0-3411 - 0-3433 -0-3456 -0-3478 -0-3501 -0-3523 - 0-3546 - 0-3568 -0-3590 35 65 -0-2275 -0-3412 - 0-3435 - 0-3458 -0-3481 - 0-3503 -0-3526 - 0-3549 -0-3572 - 0-3594 \#166 ; -0-3617 -0-3640 36 64 - 0-2304 - 0-3456 -0-3479 - 0-3502 -0-3525 - 0-3548 -0-3571 -0-3594 -0-3617 -0-3640 -0-3663 -0-3686 37 63 -0-2331 -0-3496 -0-3520 -0-3543 -0-3566 -0-3590 -0-3613 -0-3636 -0-3660 -0-3683 | -0-3706 - 0-3730 38 62 -0-2356 -0-3534 -0-3558 -0-3581 - 0-3605 -0-3628 - 0-3652 -0-3675 -0-3699 -0-3722 i -0-3746 -0-3770 39 1 61 -0-2379 -0-3568 -0-3592 -0-3616 -0-3640 -0-3664 - 0-3687 -0-3711 -0-3735 -0-3759 -0-3783 - 0-3806 40 60 - 0-2400 - 0-3600 -0*3624 -0-3648 -0-3672 -0-3696 -0-3720 -0-3744 -0-3768 -0-3792 -0-3816 - 0-3840 41 59 -0-2419 -0-3628 -0-3653 | -0-3677 - 0-3701 -0-3725 -0-3749 -0-3774 - 0-3798 -0-3822 - 0-3846 -0-3870 42 58 -0-2436 -0-3654 j -0-3678 -0-3703 -0-3727 -0-3751 -0-3776 - 0-3800 - 0-3825 - 0-3849 -0-3873 - 0-3898 43 !
57 -0-2451 -0-3676 -0-3701 -0-3726 -0-3750 -0-3775 -0-3799 : -0-3824 - 0-3848 -0-3873 - 0-3897 ; -0-3922 44 56 - 0-2464 -0-3696 -0-3721 - 0-3745 -0-3770 -0-3795 -0-3819 i -0-3844 -0-3868 -0-3893 -0-3918 -0-3942 45 !
55 - 0-2475 -0-3712 -0-3737 -0-3762 - 0-3787 -0*3811 -0-3836 -0-3861 -0-3886 -0-3910 - 0-3935 !
-0-3960 46 i 54 - 0-2484 -0-3726 -0-3751 -0-3776 - 0-3801 - 0-3825 - 0-3850 - 0-3875 - 0-3900 - 0-3925 - 0-3950 1 -0-3974 I 47 | 53 -0-2491 -0-3736 - 0-3761 -0-3786 -0-3811 - 0-3836 -0-3861 - 0-3886 -0-3911 - 0-3936 -0-3961 !
-0-3986 48 52 -0-2496 -0-3744 -0-3769 -0-3794 -0-3819 - 0-3844 -0-3869 - 0-3894 -0*3919 -0-3944 -0-3969 I -0-3994 1 49 51 -0-2499 - 0-3748 -0-3773 -0-3798 -0-3823 - 0-3848 -0-3873 -0-3898 - 0-3923 - 0-3948 -0-3973 1 -0-3998 50 50 -0-2500 -0-3750 - 0-3775 - 0-3800 - 0-3825 - 0-3850 - 0-3875 - 0-3900 -0-3925 - 0-3950 -0-3975 - 0-4000 + 105 + 0-0525 + 0-0787 + 0-0793 + 0-0798 + 0-0803 + 0-0808 + 0-0814 + 0-0819 + 0-0824 + 0-0829 + 0-0835 + 0-0840 + 110 + 0-1100 + 0-1650 + 0-1661 + 0-1672 + 0-1683 + 0-1694 + 0-1705 + 0-1716 + 0-1727 + 0-1738 + 0-1749 + 0-1760 + 115 + 0-1725 + 0-2587 + 0-2605 + 0-2622 + 0-2639 + 0-2656 + 0-2674 + 0-2691 + 0-2708 + 0-2725 + 0-2743 + 0-2760 + 120 + 0-2400 + 0-3600 + 0-3624 + 0-3648 + 0-3672 + 0-3696 + 0-3720 + 0-3744 + 0-3768 + 0-3792 + 0-3816 + 0-3840 + 125 + 0-3125 + 0-4687 + 0-4719 + 0-4750 + 0-4781 + 0-4812 + 0-4844 + 0-4875 + 0-4906 + 0-4937 + 0-4969 + 0-5000 + 130 + 0-3900 + 0-5850 + 0-5889 + 0-5928 + 0-5967 + 0-6006 + 0-6045 + 0-6084 + 0-6123 + 0-6162 + 0-6201 + 0-6240 ; + 135 + 0-4725 + 0-7087 + 0-7134 + 0-7182 + 0-7229 + 0-7276 + 0-7324 + 0-7371 + 0-7418 + 0-7465 + 0-7513 + 0-7560 !
+ 140 + 0-5600 + 0-8400 | +0-8456 + 0-8512 + 0-8568 + 0-8624 + 0-8680 + 0-8736 + 0-8792 + 0-8848 + 0-8904 + 0-8960 j + 145 + 0-6525 + 0-9787 ; +0-9853 + 0-9918 + 0-9983 + 1-0048 + 1-0114 + 1-0179 + 1-0244 + 1-0309 + 1-0375 + 1-0440 ; +150 + 0-7500 + 1-1250 1 +M325 ) +1-1400 + 1-1470 + 1-1550 + 1-1625 + 1-1700 + 1-1775 + 1-1850 + 1-1925 + 1-2000 | +155 + 0-8525 + 1-2787 ; +1-2873 1 +1-2958 + 1-3043 + 1-3128 i + 1-3214 + 1-3299 : + 1-3384 + 1-3469 + 1-3555 + 1-3640 COMPARISON OF PLATINUM ANY ) GAS THERMOMETERS .
115 Appendix Table I. ( continued).\#151 ; To find d for given values of T and S. Deduced from the formula = 8 T. / j_y_ _l .
\100/ 100 B = 1 '500 .
8 = 1-510 .
8 = P520 .
3=1-530 .
o = l-540 .
8=1-550 .
a =1-560 .
B- = 1-570 .
C - = 1-580 .
B : = 1-590 .
8\#166 ; \#166 ; = 1-600 .
+ 160 + 0-9600 + 1-4400 + 1-4496 + 1-4592 + 1-4688 + 1-4784 + 1-4880 + 1-4976 + 1-5072 + 1-5168 + 1-5264 + 1-5360 + 165 + 1-0725 + 1-6087 + 1-6195 + 1-6302 + 1-6409 + 1-6516 + 1-6624 + 1-6731 + 1-6838 + 1-6945 + 1-7053 + 1-7160 + 170 + 1-1900 + 1-7850 + 1-7969 + 1-8088 + 1-8207 + 1-8326 + 1-8445 + 1-8564 + 1-8683 + 1-8802 + 1-8921 + 1-9040 + 175 + 1-3125 + 1-9687 + 1-9819 + 1-9950 + 2-0081 + 2-0212 + 2-0344 + 2-0475 + 2-0606 + 2-0737 + 2-0869 1+ 2-1000 + 180 + 1-4400 + 2-1600 + 2-1744 + 2-1888 + 2-2032 + 2-2176 + 2-2320 + 2-2464 + 2-2608 + 2-2752 + 2-2896 + 2-3040 + 185 + 1-5725 + 2-3587 + 2-3745 + 2-3902 + 2-4059 + 2-4216 + 2-4374 + 2-4531 + 2-4688 + 2-4845 + 2-5003 + 2-5160 + 190 + 1-7100 + 2-5650 + 2-5821 + 2-5992 + 2-6163 + 2-6334 + 2-6505 + 2-6676 + 2-6847 + 2-7018 + 2-7189 + 2-7360 + 195 + 1-8525 + 2-7787 + 2-7973 + 2-8158 + 2-8343 + 2-8528 + 2-8714 + 2-8899 + 2-9084 + 2-9269 + 2-9455 + 2-9640 + 200 + 2-0000 + 3-0000 + 3-0200 + 3-0400 + 3-0600 + 3-0800 + 3-1000 + 3-1200 + 3-1400 + 3-1600 + 3-1800 + 3-2000 + 205 + 2-1525 + 3-2287 + 3-2503 + 3-2718 + 3-2933 + 3-3148 + 3-3364 + 3-3579 + 3-3794 + 3-4009 + 3-4225 + 3-4440 + 210 + 2-3100 + 3-4650 + 3-4881 + 3-5112 + 3-5343 + 3-5574 + 3-5805 + 3-6036 + 3-6267 !
+ 3-6498 + 3-6729 + 3-6960 + 215 + 2-4725 + 3-7087 + 3-7335 + 3-7582 + 3-7829 + 3-8076 + 3-8324 + 3-8571 + 3-8818 1 + 3-9065 + 3-9313 i+ 3-9560 + 220 + 2-6400 + 3-9600 + 3-9864 + 4-0128 + 4-0392 + 4-0656 + 4-0920 + 4-1184 + 4-1448 !
+ 4-1712 !
+ 4-1976 i+ 4-2240 + 225 + 2-8125 + 4-2187 + 4-2469 + 4-2750 + 4-3031 + 4-3312 + 4-3594 + 4-3875 + 4-4156 + 4-4437 + 4-4719 !
+ 4-5000 + 230 + 2-9900 + 4-4850 + 4-5149 + 4-5448 + 4-5747 + 4-6046 + 4-6345 + 4-6644 + 4-6943 + 4-7242 + 4-7541 + 4-7840 + 235 + 3-1725 + 4-7587 + 4-7905 + 4-8222 + 4-8539 + 4-8856 + 4-9174 + 4-9491 + 4-9808 + 5-0125 + 5-0443 1 + 5-0760 + 240 + 3-3600 + 5-0400 + 5-0736 + 5-1072 + 5-1408 + 5-1744 + 5-2080 + 5-2416 + 5-2752 + 5-3088 + 5-3424 + 5-3760 + 245 + 3-5525 + 5-3287 + 5-3643 + 5-3998 + 5-4353 + 5-4708 + 5-5064 + 5-5419 + 5-5774 + 5-6129 + 5-6485 + 5-6840 + 250 + 3-7500 + 5-6250 + 5-6625 + 5-7000 + 5-7375 + 5-7750 + 5-8125 + 5-8500 + 5-8875 + 5-9250 + 5-9625 + 6-0000 + 255 + 3-9525 + 5-9287 + 5-9683 + 6-0078 + 6-0473 + 6-0868 + 6-1264 + 6-1659 + 6-2054 + 6-2449 + 6-2845 + 6-3240 + 260 + 4-1600 + 6-2400 + 6-2816 + 6-3232 + 6-3648 + 6-4064 + 6-4480 + 6-4896 + 6-5312 + 6-5728 + 6-6144 + 6-6560 + 265 + 4-3725 + 6-5587 + 6-6025 + 6-6462 + 6-6899 + 6-7336 + 6-7774 + 6-8211 + 6-8648 + 6-9085 + 6-9523 + 6-9960 + 270 + 4-5900 + 6-8850 + 6-9309 + 6-9768 + 7-0227 + 7-0686 + 7-1145 + 7-1604 + 7-2063 + 7-2522 + 7-2981 + 7-3440 + 275 + 4-8125 + 7-2187 + 7-2669 + 7-3150 + 7-3631 + 7-4112 + 7-4594 + 7-5075 + 7-5556 + 7-6037 + 7-6519 + 7-7000 + 280 + 5-0400 + 7-5600 + 7-6104 + 7-6608 + 7-7112 + 7-7616 + 7-8120 + 7-8624 + 7-9128 + 7-9632 + 8-0136 + 8-0640 + 285 + 5-2725 + 7-9087 + 7-9615 + 8-0142 + 8-0669 + 8-1196 + 8-1724 + 8-2251 + 8-2778 + 8-3305 + 8-3833 + 8-4360 + 290 + 5-5100 + 8-2650 + 8-3201 + 8-3752 + 8-4303 + 8-4854 + 8-5405 + 8-5956 + 8-6507 + 8-7058 + 8-7609 + 8-8160 + 295 + 5-7525 + 8-6287 + 8-6863 + 8-7438 + 8-8013 + 8-8588 + 8-91641 + 8-9739 + 9-0314 + 9-0889 + 9-1465 + 9-2040 + 300 + 6-0000 + 9-0000 + 9-0600 + 9-1200 + 9-1800 + 9-2400 + 9-3000 + 9-3600 + 9-4200 + 9-4800 + 9-5400 + 9-6000 + 305 + 6-2525 + 9-3787 + 9-4413 + 9-5038 + 9-5663 + 9-6288 + 9-6914 + 9-7539 + 9-8164 ' + 9-8789 + 9-9415 + 10-0040 + 310 + 6-5100 + 9-7650 + 9-8301 + 9-8952 + 9-9603 +10-0254 +10-0905 + 10-1556 +10-2207 +10-2858 +10-3509 + 10-4160 + 315 + 6-7725 + 10-1587 + 10-2265 +10-2942 + 10-3619 + 10-4296 + 10-4974 + 10-5651 +10-6328 +10-7005 +10-7683 +10-8360 + 320 + 7-0400 +10-5600 +10-6304 +10-7008 + 10-7712 + 10-8415 + 10-9120 + 10-9824 + 11-0528 + 11-1232 + 11-1936 + 11-2640 + 325 + 7-3125 + 10-9687 + 11-0419 + 111150 + 11-1881 + 11-2612 + 11-3344 + 11-4075 + 11-4806 + 11-5537 + 11-6269 + 11-7000 + 330 + 7-5900 + 11-3850 1 + 11-4609 + 11-5368 + 11-6127 + 11-6886 + 11-7645 + 11-8404 + 11-9163 + 11-9922 + 12-0681 + 12-1440 116 DRS .
J. A. HARKER AND P. CHAPPUIS ON Appendix Table I. ( continued).\#151 ; To find cl for given values of T and S. Deduced from the formula = 8 T~ T. lO * ?
\#187 ; \#163 ; \gt ; O 11\#151 ; *i 1 1\#169 ; **0 1 \lt ; 0 1 r\#151 ; H a=1-500 .
c= 1-510 .
c= 1-520 .
a=1-530 .
a= 1-540 .
a =1-550 .
a= 1-560 .
a= 1-570 .
a =1-580 .
a = 1-590 .
a= 1-600 .
+ 335 + 340 + 345 + 350 + 355 + 360 + 365 + 370 + 375 + 380 + 385 + 390 + 395 + 400 + 405 + 410 + 415 + 420 + 425 + 430 + 435 + 440 + 444-53 + 445 + 445-27 + 450 + 455 + 460 + 7-8725 + 8-1600 + 8-4525 + 8-7500 + 9-0525 + 9-3600 + 9-6725 + 9-9900 + 10-3125 +10-6400 + 10-9725 + 11-3100 + 11-6525 +12-0000 +12-3525 + 12-7100 +13-0725 +13-4400 + 13-8125 + 14-1900 + 14-5725 + 14-9600 + 15-3154 + 15-3525 +15-3738 + 15-7500 + 16-1525 + 16-5600 1 + 11-8087 + 12-2400 + 12-6787 + 13-1250 + 13-5787 + 14-0400 + 14-5087 +14-9850 + 15-4687 + 15-9600 +16-4587 + 16-9650 + 17-4787 + 18-0000 +18-5287 + 19-0650 + 19-6087 + 20-1600 + 20-7187 + 21-2850 + 21-8587 + 22-4400 + 22-9731 + 23-0287 + 23-0607 + 23-6250 + 24-2287 + 24-8400 + 11-8875 + 12-3216 + 12-7633 + 13-2125 + 13-6693 + 14-1336 +14-6055 +15-0849 + 15-5719 +16-0664 + 16-5685 + 17-0781 + 17-5953 + 18-1200 +18-6523 + 19-1921 + 19-7395 + 20-2944 + 20-8569 + 21-4269 + 22-0045 + 22-5896 + 23-1262 + 23-1823 + 23-2144 + 23-7825 + 24-3903 + 25-0056 + 11-9662 + 12-4032 + 12-8478 + 13-3000 + 13-7598 + 14-2272 + 14-7022 + 15-1848 + 15-6750 + 16-1728 + 16-6782 + 17-1912 + 17-7118 +18-2400 + 18-7758 + 19-3192 + 19-8702 + 20-4288 + 20-9950 + 21-5688 + 22-1502 + 22-7392 + 23-2794 + 23-3358 + 23-3682 + 23-9400 + 24-5518 + 25-1712 + 12-0449 +12-4848 + 12-9323 + 13-3875 + 13-8503 +14-3208 + 14-7989 + 15-2847 + 15-7781 + 16-2792 + 16-7879 + 17-3043 + 17-8283 + 18-3600 + 18-8993 + 19-4463 + 20-0009 + 20-5632 + 21-1331 + 21-7107 + 22-2959 + 22-8888 + 23-4325 + 23-4893 + 23-5219 + 24-0975 + 24-7133 + 25-3368 + 12-1236 + 12-5664 + 13-0168 + 13-4750 + 13-9408 + 14-4144 + 14-8956 + 15-3846 + 15-8812 + 16-3856 + 16-8976 + 17-4174 + 17-9448 +18-4800 + 19-0228 + 19-5734 + 20-1316 + 20-6976 + 21-2712 + 21-8526 + 22-4416 + 23-0384 + 23-5857 + 23-6428 + 23-6756 + 24-2550 + 24-8748 + 25-5024 + 12-2024 + 12-6480 + 13-1014 + 13-5625 + 14-0314 +14-5080 + 14-9924 +15-4845 + 15-9844 + 16-4920 + 17-0074 +17-5305 + 18-0614 +18-6000 + 19-1464 +19-7005 + 20-2624 + 20-8320 + 21-4094 + 21-9945 + 22-5874 + 23-1880 + 23-7389 + 23-7964 + 23-8294 + 24-4125 + 25-0364 + 25-6680 + 12-2811 + 12-7296 + 13-1859 + 13-6500 + 14-1219 + 14-6016 + 15-0891 +15-5844 + 16-0875 + 16-5984 + 17-1171 + 17-6436 + 18-1779 +18-7200 + 19-2699 + 19-8276 + 20-3931 + 20-9664 + 21-5475 + 22-1364 + 22-7331 + 23-3376 + 23-8920 + 23-9499 + 23-9831 + 24-5700 + 25-1979 + 25-8336 + 12-3598 + 12-8112 + 13-2704 + 13-7375 + 14-2124 +14-6952 + 15-1858 + 15-6843 + 16-1906 + 16-7048 + 17-2268 + 17-7567 + 18-2944 +18-8400 + 19-3934 + 19-9547 + 20-5238 + 21-1008 + 21-6856 + 22-2783 + 22-8788 + 23-4872 + 24-0452 + 24-1034 + 24-1369 + 24-7275 + 25-3594 + 25-9992 + 12-4385 + 12-8928 + 13-3549 + 13-8250 +14-3029 +14-7888 + 15-2825 +15-7842 + 16-2937 + 16-8112 + 17-3365 + 17-8698 + 18-4109 + 18-9600 + 19-5169 + 20-0818 + 20-6545 + 21-2352 + 21-8237 + 22-4202 + 23-0245 + 23-6368 + 24-1983 + 24-2569 + 24-2906 + 24-8850 + 25-5209 + 26-1648 + 12-5173 + 12-9744 + 13-4395 + 13-9125 +14-3935 + 14-8824 +15-3793 +15-8841 + 16-3969 + 16-9176 + 17-4463 + 17-9829 + 18-5275 + 19-0800 + 19-6405 + 20-2089 + 20-7853 + 21-3696 + 21-9619 + 22-5621 + 23-1703 + 23-7864 + 24-3515 + 24-4105 + 24-4443 + 25-0425 + 25-6825 + 26-3304 + 12-5960 + 13-0560 +13-5240 +14-0000 +14-4840 + 14-9760 + 15-4760 +15-9840 + 16-5000 +17-0240 + 17-5560 +18-0960 + 18-6440 + 19-2000 + 19-7640 + 20-3360 + 20-9160 + 21-5040 + 22-1000 + 22-7040 + 23-3160 + 23-9360 + 24-5046 + 24-5640 + 24-5981 + 25-2000 + 25-8440 + 26-4960 COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Appendix Table II .
formula T For calculating T when pt and 8 are known , employing the + 50 ) - V ( / 5000 v / 5000 .
KA\* 10000\#187 ; \lt ; - + 50 \#151 ; ------ * .
T. 1 pt .
3=1-54 . .
S =1-55 .
3 = 1-56 .
2=1-57 .
-50 - 48-879 - 48-872 - 48-865 - 48-858 970 AC ) -47-909 -47-902 - 47-895 -47-888 t/ -48 -46-938 -46-931 -46-925 -46-918 1 97 -47 - 45-967 -45-960 -45-954 - 45-948 2 194 -46 -44-996 - 44-989 - 44-983 -44-977 3 291 -45 - 44-024 -44-018 -44-012 - 44-006 4 388 -44 - 43-052 - 43-046 - 43-040 - 43-034 5 485 -43 -42-079 -42-074 - 42-068 - 42-062 6 582 -42 -41-106 -41-101 -41-096 -41-090 7 679 -41 -40-133 -40-128 -40-123 -40-118 8 776 -40 -39-160 -39-155 -39-150 -39-145 9 873 -39 -38-187 -38-182 -38-177 -38-172 -38 -37-214 - 37-209 - 37-204 -37-199 -37 - 36-240 - 36-235 - 36-230 - 36-225 -36 - 35-266 -35-261 - 35-256 - 35-251 -35 - 34-291 - 34-287 - 34-282 - 34-277 -34 -33-316 -33-312 - 33-308 - 33-303 -33 -32-341 - 32-337 - 32-333 - 32-329 -32 -31-366 -31-362 -31-358 -31354 -31 - 30-390 - 30-386 - 30-382 - 30-378 -30 -29-414 -29-410 - 29-406 -29-402 -29 -28-438 -28-434 - 28-430 - 28-426 -28 -27-461 -27-458 - 27-454 -27-450 -27 - 26-484 -26*481 -26-478 -26-474 -26 - 25-507 - 25-504 - 25-501 - 25-498 -25 - 24-530 - 24-527 - 24-524 -24-521 -24 - 23-552 -23-549 - 23-546 - 23-544 -23 -22-574 -22-571 -22-568 -22-566 -22 -21-596 -21-593 -21*590 -2P588 -21 -20-617 -20-615 -20-612 -20-610 -20 -19-638 - 19-636 - 19-634 - 19-632 -19 -18-659 -18-657 -18-655 - 18-653 -18 -17-680 -17-678 - 17-676 - 17-674 980 - 16-700 -16-698 -16-697 -16-695 -17 - 16 - 15-720 -15-718 -15-717 - 15-716 1 98 -15 - 14-740 -14-738 -14-737 -14-736 2 196 -14 -13-759 -13-758 -13-757 -13-756 3 294 -13 -12-778 -12-777 - 12-776 -12-775 4 392 -12 -11-797 -11-796 -11-795 -11-794 5 490 -11 -10-816 -10-815 -10-814 -10-813 6 588 -10 - 9-834 - 9-833 - 9-832 - 9-831 7 686 - 9 - 8-852 - 8-851 - 8-850 - 8-849 8 784 - 8 - 7-870 - 7-869 - 7-868 - 7-867 9 882 - 7 - 6-887 - 6-886 - 6-886 - 6-885 - 6 - 5-904 - 5-903 - 5-903 - 5-903 - 5 - 4-921 - 4-920 - 4-920 - 4-920 - 4 - 3-937 - 3-937 - 3-937 - 3-937 - 3 - 2-953 - 2-953 - 2-953 - 2-953 - 2 - 1-969 - 1-969 - 1-969 - 1-969 - 1 - 0-985 - 0-985 - 0-985 - 0-985 it 0 fABLE II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and 8 are known 3ying the formula T = ( \#151 ; r\#151 ; +50 + SO ?
/ 8 T. 3=1-54 .
3=1-55 .
3 = 1-56 .
S = 1*57 .
0-000 0 000 o-ooo 0-000 0-985 0-985 0-985 0-985 1-970 1-970 1-970 1-970 2-955 2-955 2-955 2-955 3-941 3-941 3-941 3-941 4-927 4-927 4-927 4-927 5-914 5-913 5-913 5-913 6-901 6-900 6-899 6-899 7-888 7-887 7-886 7-885 8-875 8-874 8-873 8-872 9-863 9-862 9-861 9-860 10-851 10-850 10-849 10-848 11-839 11-838 11-837 11-836 12-827 12-826 12-825 12-824 13-816 13-815 13-814 13-813 14-805 14-804 14-803 14-802 15-795 15-794 15-792 15-791 990 16-785 16-784 16-782 16-780 17-775 17-774 17-772 17-770 1 99 18-765 18-764 18-762 18-760 2 198 19-756 19-754 19-752 19-751 3 297 20-747 20-745 20-743 20-741 4 396 21-738 21-736 21-734 21-732 5 495 22-730 22-728 22-726 22-724 6 594 23-722 23-720 23-718 23-716 7 693 24-714 24-712 24-710 24-708 8 792 25-706 25-704 25-702 25-700 9 891 26-699 26-697 26-695 26-693 27-692 27-690 27-688 27-686 28-685 28-683 28-681 28-679 29-679 29-677 29-675 29-673 30-673 30-671 30-669 30-667 31-667 31-665 31-663 31-661 32-661 32-659 32-657 32-655 33-656 33-654 33-652 33-650 34-651 34-649 34-647 34-645 35-646 35-644 35-642 35-640 36-642 36-640 36-638 36-636 37-638 37-636 37-634 37-632 38-634 38-632 38-630 38-628 1000 39-631 39-629 39-627 39-625 40-628 40-626 40-624 40-622 1 100 41-625 41-623 41-621 41-619 2 200 42-623 42-621 42-619 42-617 3 300 43-621 43-619 43-617 43-615 4 400 44-619 44-617 44-615 44-613 5 500 45-617 45-615 45-613 45-611 6 600 46-616 46-614 46-612 46-610 7 700 47-615 47-613 47-611 47-609 8 800 48-615 48-613 48-611 48-609 9 900 Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and 8 are known , employing the formula T = ( 5-'| ' + 5o ) - V(T + 2\gt ; t. rI i 1 \#163 ; =1*54 .
6 =1-55 .
S= 1-56 .
5= 1*57 .
50 49-615 49-613 49-611 49-609 1000 51 50-615 50-613 50-611 50-609 52 51-615 51-613 51-611 51-609 1 100 53 52-616 52-614 52-612 52-610 2 200 54 53-617 53-615 53-613 53-611 3 300 55 54-619 54-617 54-615 54-613 4 400 56 55-621 55-619 55-617 55-615 5 500 57 56-623 56-621 56-619 56-617 6 600 58 57-625 57-623 57-621 57619 7 700 59 58-627 58-625 58-623 58-621 8 800 60 59-630 59-627 59-625 59-623 9 900 61 60-633 60-630 60-628 60-626 62 61-636 61-633 61-631 61-629 63 62-639 62-637 62-635 62-633 64 63-643 63-641 63-639 63-637 65 64-648 64-646 64-644 64-642 66 65-653 65-651 65-649 65-647 67 66-658 66-656 66-654 66-652 68 67-663 67-661 67-659 67-657 69 68-669 68-667 68-665 68-663 70 69-675 69-673 69-671 69-669 71 70-681 70-679 70-677 70-675 72 71-687 71-685 71-683 71-681 73 72-694 72-692 72-690 72-688 74 73-701 73-699 73-697 73-695 75 74-709 74-707 74-705 74-703 76 75-717 75-715 75-713 * 75-711 77 76-725 76-723 76-721 76-719 78 77-734 77-732 77-730 77-728 79 78-743 78-741 78-739 78-737 80 79-752 79-750 79-748 79-746 81 80-761 80-759 80-757 80-755 1010 82 81-771 81-769 81-767 81-765 83 82-781 82-779 82-777 82-775 1 101 84 83-791 83-789 83-787 83-785 2 202 85 84-801 84-800 84-798 84-796 3 303 86 85-812 85-811 85-809 85-808 4 404 87 86-823 86-822 86-821 86-820 5 505 88 87-835 87-834 87-833 87-832 6 606 89 88-847 88-846 88-845 88-844 7 707 90 89-859 89-858 89-857 89-856 8 808 91 90-872 90-871 90-870 90-869 9 909 92 91-885 91-884 91-883 91-882 93 92-898 92-897 92-896 92-895 94 93-912 93-911 93-910 93-909 95 94-926 94-925 94-924 94-924 96 95-940 .95-939 95-939 95-939 97 96-954 96-954 96-954 96-954 98 97-969 97-969 97-969 97-969 99 98-984 98-984 98-984 98-984 1 __j COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
1.21 Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and S are known , employing the formula T = ( ?
f + So ) V(T+50Jpt .
T. 6=1-54 6=1-55 .
6=1-56 .
6=1-57 .
100 100-000 100-000 100-000 100-000 101 101-016 101-016 101-016 101-016 102 102-032 102-032 102-032 102-032 103 103-048 103-049 103-049 103-049 104 104-065 104-066 104-066 104-066 105 105-082 105-083 105-083 105-084 106 106-099 106-100 106-101 106-102 107 107-117 107-118 107-119 107-120 108 108-135 108-136 108-137 108-138 109 109-154 109-155 109-156 109-157 110 110-173 110-174 110-175 110-176 111 111-192 111-193 111-194 111-195 112 112-211 112-212 112-214 112-214 1020 113 113-230 113-232 113-234 113-235 I 114 114-250 114-252 114-254 114-256 1 102 115 115-271 115-273 115-275 115-277 2 204 116 116-292 116-294 116-296 116-298 3 306 117 117-313 117-315 117-317 117-320 4 408 118 118-334 118-336 118-339 118-342 5 510 119 119-355 119-358 119-361 119-364 6 612 120 120-377 120-380 120-383 120-386 7 714 121 121-400 121-403 121-406 121-409 8 816 122 122-423 122-426 122-429 122-432 9 918 123 123-446 123-449 123-452 123-455 124 124-469 124-472 124-476 124-478 125 125-492 125-496 125-500 125-502 126 126-516 126-520 126-524 126-526 127 127-540 127-544 127-548 127-551 128 128-565 128-569 128-573 128-576 129 129-590 129-594 129-598 129-602 130 130-616 130-620 130-624 130-628 131 131-642 131-646 131-650 131-654 132 132-668 132-672 132-676 132-680 133 133-694 133-698 133-703 133-707 134 134-720 134-725 134-730 134-734 135 135-747 135-752 135-757 135-762 136 136-774 136780 136-785 136-790 137 137-802 137-808 137-813 137-818 138 138-830 138-836 138-841 138-846 139 139-858 139-864 139-870 139-875 1030 140 140-887 140-893 140-899 140-904 141 141-916 141-922 141-928 141-934 1 103 142 142-945 142-952 142-957 142-964 2 206 143 143-975 143-982 143-987 143-994 3 309 144 145-005 145-012 145-017 145-025 4 412 145 146-035 146-042 146-048 146-056 5 515 146 147-066 147-073 147-079 147-087 6 618 147 148-097 148-104 148-111 148-118 7 721 148 149-128 149-136 149-143 149-150 8 824 149 150-160 150-168 150-175 150-183 9 927 R VOL. CXCIV.---A .
Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when pt and 8 are known employing the formula T = + 50 )\#151 ; \J 50V\#151 ; \#151 ; ^5 ? ? .
pl I T. h = 1-54 .
S = 1-55 .
b = 1-56 .
\amp ; = 1-57 .
150 15M92 151-200 151-208 151-216 151 152-224 152-232 152-241 152-249 152 153-257 153-265 153-274 153-282 153 154-290 154-299 154-308 154-316 154 155-324 155-333 155-342 155-350 155 156-358 156-367 156-376 156-384 15G 157-392 157-401 157-410 157-418 157 158-426 158-435 158-444 158-453 158 159-460 159-470 159-479 159-488 159 160-495 160-505 160-515 160-524 160 161-531 161-541 161-551 161-560 161 162-567 162-577 162-587 162-597 162 163-603 163-613 163-623 163-634 163 164-639 164-650 164-660 164-672 164 165-676 165-687 165-697 165-710 165 166-713 166-724 166-735 166-748 166 167-750 167-762 167-773 167-786 .
167 168-788 168-800 168-811 168-824 168 169-826 169-838 169-850 169-862 169 170-864 170-877 170-889 170-901 1040 170 171-903 171-916 171-929 171-940 171 172-942 172-956 172-969 172-980 ] 104 172 173-982 173-996 174-009 174-021 2 208 173 175-022 175-036 175-049 175-063 3 312 174 176062 176-076 176-090 176-105 4 416 175 177-102 177-117 177-131 177-147 5 520 176 178-143 178-158 178-173 178-189 6 624 177 179-185 179-200 179-215 179-231 7 728 178 180-227 180-242 180-257 180-273 8 832 179 181-269 181-284 181-300 181-316 9 936 180 182-311 182-327 182-343 182-359 181 183-353 183-370 183-386 183-403 182 184-396 184-413 184-430 184-447 183 185-440 185-457 185-474 185-491 184 186-484 186-501 186-518 186-536 185 187-528 187-545 187-563 187-581 186 188-572 188-590 188-608 188-626 187 189-617 189-635 189-653 189-671 188 190-662 190-680 190-698 190-716 189 191-707 191-726 191-744 191-763 190 192-753 192-772 192-790 192-810 191 193-799 193-818 193-837 193-857 192 194-845 194-865 194-884 194-904 193 195-892 195-912 195-932 195-952 194 196-939 196-960 196-980 197-000 195 197-987 198-008 198-028 198-049 196 199-035 199-056 199-077 199-098 197 200-084 200-105 200-126 200-147 198 201-133 20M54 201-175 201-196 199 202-182 202-203 202-225 202-246 !
COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and 3 are known , employing the formula T = + 5o ) \#151 ; 'v/ |''r + 50 ) ' " pt , T. a=i-54 .
o=l-55 .
^ =1-56 .
3 = 1-57 .
200 203-231 203-253 203-275 203-296 1 Are \A 201 204-281 204-303 204-325 204-347 lUOu 202 205-331 205-353 205-376 205-399 1 1 A~* 203 206-381 206-404 206-427 206-451 1 .
) 1UO Ol A 204 207-431 207-455 207-479 207-503 Q Ji 1 U qi k 205 208-482 208-507 208-531 208-555 6 A 0 10 1 OA 206 209-534 209-559 209-583 209-607 -Jr 207 210-586 210-611 210-635 210-659 0 O ft QA 208 211-638 211-663 211-688 211-712 0 7 u oU non 209 212-690 212-716 212-742 212-766 ( Q ( 00 Q 1A 210 213-743 213-769 213-796 213-820 O Q odrU Q i X 211 214-796 214-823 214-850 214-875 V iO 212 215-850 215-877 215-904 215-930 213 216-904 216-931 216-958 216-985 214 217-958 217-986 218-013 218-041 215 219-013 219-041 219-069 219-097 216 220-068 220-097 220-125 220-153 217 221-124 221-153 221-182 221-210 218 222-180 222-209 222-239 222-267 219 223-236 223-266 223-296 223-325 220 224-293 224-323 224-353 224-383 221 225-350 225-380 225-410 225-441 222 226-407 226-438 226-468 226-499 223 227-464 227-496 227-527 227-557 224 228-522 228-554 228-586 228-616 225 229-581 229-613 229-645 229-676 226 230-640 230-672 230-704 230-736 227 231-699 231-731 231-764 231-797 1060 228 232-758 232-791 232-824 232-858 \#151 ; \#151 ; 229 233-817 233-851 233-885 233-919 1 106 230 234-87-7 234-912 234-946 234-980 2 212 231 235-938 235-973 236-007 236-041 3 318 232 236-999 237-035 237-069 237-103 4 424 233 238-061 238-097 238-131 238-165 5 530 234 239T23 239-159 239-194 239-228 6 636 235 240-185 240-221 240-257 240-291 7 742 236 241-248 241-284 241-320 241-355 8 848 237 242-311 242-347 242-384 242-420 9 954 l 238 243-374 243-411 243-448 243-485 239 244-437 244-475 244-512 244-550 240 245-501 245-539 245-577 245-615 241 246-565 246-604 246-642 246-680 242 247-630 247-669 247-707 247-746 243 248-695 248-734 248-773 248-812 244 249-760 249-800 249-839 249-879 245 250-826 250-866 250-906 250-946 246 251-892 251-933 251-973 252-014 247 252-958 253-000 253041 253-082 248 254-025 254-067 254-109 254-150 249 255-092 255-135 255-177 255-219 R 2 Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when pt and 8 are known , employing the formula T = ( \#151 ; \#166 ; + 5o ) - .\J+ 50 jft .
T. S = 1 *54 .
8 = 155 .
$ = 1*56 .
8 =1-57 .
250 256-160 256-203 256-245 256-288 251 257-228 257-271 257-314 257-357 252 258-296 258-340 258-383 258-427 253 259-365 259-409 259-453 259-497 1070 254 260-434 260-479 260-523 260-568 | \#151 ; 255 261-504 261-549 261-594 261-639 1 107 256 262-574 262-620 262-665 262-711 2 214 257 263-644 263-691 263-737 263-783 3 321 258 264-715 264-762 264-809 264-855 4 428 259 265-786 265-833 265-881 265-928 5 535 260 266-857 266-905 266-953 267-001 6 642 261 267-929 267-977 268-025 268-074 7 749 262 269-001 269-050 269-098 269-148 8 856 263 270-073 270-123 270-172 270-222 9 963 264 271-146 271-196 271-246 271-296 265 272-219 272-270 272-320 272-370 266 273-293 273-344 273-395 273-445 267 274-367 274-419 274-470 274-521 268 275-442 275-494 275-545 275-597 269 276-517 276-569 276-621 276-673 270 277-592 277-645 277-698 277-750 271 278-667 278-721 278-775 278-827 272 279-743 279-798 279-852 279-905 273 280-820 280-875 280-930 280-984 274 281-897 281-952 282-008 282-063 275 282-974 283-029 283-086 283-142 276 284-052 284-107 284-164 284-221 277 285-130 285-186 285-243 285-300 278 286-209 286-265 286-323 286-380 279 287-288 287-344 287-403 287-460 OOO .
K A 1 1080 280 288-367 288-424 288-483 288*541 281 289-446 289-504 289-563 289-622 1 108 282 290-525 290-584 290-644 290-704 2 216 283 291-605 291-665 291-726 291-786 3 324 284 292-685 292-746 292-808 292-868 4 432 285 293-766 293-827 293-890 293-951 5 540 286 294-847 294-909 294-972 295-034 6 648 287 295-929 295-992 296-055 296-117 7 756 288 297-012 297-075 297-139 297-201 8 864 289 298-095 298-158 298-223 298-286 9 972 290 299-178 299-241 299-307 299-371 291 300-261 300-325 300-391 300-456 292 301-344 301-409 301-476 301-541 293 302-428 302-494 302-561 302-627 294 303-512 303-579 303-646 303-713 295 304-597 304-665 304-732 304-800 296 305-682 305-751 305-819 305-887 297 306-768 306-837 306-906 306-975 298 307-854 307-924 307-993 308-063 299 308-940 309-011 309-080 309-151 COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when pt and 8 are known , employing the formula T = + 5o ) pt .
3=1-54 .
300 310-027 301 31M15 302 312-203 303 313-290 304 314-379 305 315-468 306 316-557 307 317-647 308 318-737 309 319-827 310 320-918 311 322-010 312 323-102 313 324-194 314 325-286 315 326-379 316 327-472 317 328-565 318 329-659 319 330-754 320 331-849 321 332-944 322 334-039 323 335-135 324 336-232 325 337-329 326 338-426 327 339-524 328 340-622 329 341-720 330 342-819 331 343-918 332 345-018 333 346-119 334 347-220 335 348-321 336 349-422 337 350-523 338 351-625 339 352-728 340 353-831 341 354-934 342 356-038 343 357-143 344 358-248 345 359-353 346 360-458 347 361-564 348 362-670 349 363-777 T , 5=1-55 .
\#163 ; =1-56 .
310-098 310-168 311-186 311-257 312-274 312-346 313-363 313-435 314-452 314-525 315-542 315-616 316-632 316-707 317-722 317-798 318-813 318-889 319-904 319-980 320-995 321-072 322-087 322-165 323-180 323-258 324-273 324-352 325-366 325-446 326-459 326-540 327-553 327-634 328-647 328-729 329-742 329-824 330-837 330-920 331-933 332-017 333-029 333-114 334-125 334-211 335-222 335-308 336-319 336-406 337-417 337-505 338-515 338-604 339-613 339-703 340-712 340-802 341-811 341-902 342-911 343-003 344-011 344-104 345-112 345-205 346-213 346-307 347-314 347-409 348-416 348-511 349-518 349-614 350-620 350-717 351-723 351-820 352-826 352-924 353-930 354-029 355-034 355-134 356-139 356-239 357-244 357-345 358-350 358-452 359-456 359-559 360-562 360-666 361-668 361-773 362-775 362-880 363-883 363-988 B=P57 .
310-240 311-329 312-419 313-509 1090 314-599 315-690 1 | 109 316-781 2 218 317-873 3 327 318-965 4 436 320-057 5 545 321-150 6 654 322-243 7 763 323-337 8 872 324-432 9 981 325-527 326-622 327-717 328-812 329-908 331-004 332-101 333-199 334-297 335-395 336-494 337-593 338-693 339-793 340-893 341-993 1100 343-094 344-196 1 110 345-298 2 220 346-401 3 330 347-504 4 440 348-607 5 550 349-710 6 660 350-814 7 770 351-918 8 880 353022 9 990 354- 127 355- 233 356- 340 357- 447 358- 554 359- 662 360- 770 361- 878 362- 986 364-095 Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and 8 are known , employing the formula T = ( ~ + 50 ) _ + 5oJ - 100'0^ .
ft. T. 2=1-54 .
i 2=1-55 .
2=1-56 .
2=1-57 .
350 364-884 364-991 365-097 365-205 351 365-992 366-100 366-207 366-316 352 367-100 367-209 367-317 367-427 1110 353 368-208 368-318 368-427 368-538 354 369-317 369-428 369-538 369-649 1 | 111 355 370-426 370-538 370-649 370-760 2 222 35 G 371-536 371-648 371-760 371-871 3 333 357 372-647 ,372-759 372-871 372-983 4 444 358 373-758 373-871 373-984 374-097 5 555 359 374-869 374-983 375-097 375-211 6 666 360 375-980 376-095 376-210 376-325 7 i 777 361 377-092 377-208 377-324 377-440 ' 8 888 362 378-204 378-321 378-438 378-555 9 999 363 379-316 379-434 379-552 379-670 364 380-429 380-548 380-666 380-785 365 381-543 381-662 381-781 381-900 366 382-657 382-777 382-897 383-017 367 383-772 383-892 384-013 384-134 368 384-887 385-008 385-129 385-251 369 386-002 386-124 386-246 386-369 370 387-118 387-241 387-364 387-488 371 388-234 388-358 388-482 388-607 372 389-350 389-475 389-600 389-726 373 390-467 390-593 390-719 390-845 374 391-584 391-711 391-838 391-965 375 392-702 392-830 392-958 393-086 376 393-820 393-949 394-078 394-207 1120 377 394-939 395-069 395-199 395-329 378 396-058 396-189 396-320 396-451 1 112 379 397-177 397-309 397-441 397-573 2 224 380 398-297 398-430 398-563 398-696 3 336 381 399-417 399-551 399-685 399-819 4 448 382 400-538 400-673 400-808 400-943 5 560 383 401-659 401-795 401-931 402-067 6 672 384 402-781 402-918 403-055 403-192 7 7 84 385 403-903 404-041 404-179 404-317 8 896 386 405-026 405-165 405-304 405-443 9 1008 i 387 406-149 406-289 406-429 406-569 388 407-272 407-413 407-554 407-695 389 408-396 408-538 408-679 408-822 390 409-521 409-663 409-805 409-949 391 410*646 410-789 410-932 411-076 392 411-771 411-915 412-060 412-204 393 412-896 413-041 413-187 413-333 394 414-021 414-168 414-315 414-462 395 415-148 415-296 415-444 415-592 396 416-275 416-424 416-573 416-722 397 417-402 417-552 417-702 417-852 398 418-530 418-681 418-832 418-983 399 1 419-658 419-810 419-962 420-114 4 \#151 ; COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and 8 are known , employing the formula T = + 5oj - ^/ ( ^ ?
+ 50Jpt .
T. a = 1*54 .
a = 1-55 .
a = 1-56 .
a = 1-57 .
400 420-787 420-940 421-093 421-246 1130 401 421-916 422-070 422-224 422-378 402 423-046 423-201 423-356 423-511 1 113 403 424-176 424-332 424-488 424-644 2 226 404 425-306 425-463 425-620 425-777 3 339 405 426-437 426-595 426-753 426-911 4 452 406 427-569 427-728 427-887 428-046 5 565 407 428-701 428-861 429-021 429-181 6 678 408 429-833 429-994 430-055 430-216 7 791 409 430-966 431-128 431-290 431-452 8 904 410 432-099 432-262 432-425 432-588 9 1017 411 433-233 433-397 433-561 433-725 412 434-367 434-532 434-697 434-862 413 435-501 435-667 435-833 435-999 414 436-636 436-803 436-970 437-137 415 437-772 437-940 438-108 438-276 416 438-908 439 077 439-246 439-416 417 440-044 440-214 440-385 440-556 418 441-181 441-352 441-524 441-696 419 442-318 442-490 442-663 442-836 420 443-456 443-629 443-803 443-977 421 444-594 444-768 444-943 445-118 422 445-733 445-908 446-084 446-260 1140 423 446-872 447-048 447-225 447-402 1 424 448-011 448-188 448-366 448-544 1 114 425 449-151 449-329 449-508 449-687 2 228 426 450-291 450-471 450-650 450-831 3 342 427 451-432 451-613 451-794 451-976 4 456 428 452-573 452-755 452-938 453-121 5 570 429 453-715 453-898 454-082 454-266 6 684 430 454-858 455-042 455-227 455-412 7 798 431 456-00 J 456-186 456-372 456-558 8 912 432 457-144 457-330 457-517 457-704 9 1026 433 458-287 458-475 458-663 458-851 434 459-431 459-620 459-810 459-999 435 460-576 460-766 460-957 46M47 436 461-721 461-912 462-104 462-296 437 462-866 463-058 463-252 463-445 438 464-011 464-205 464-400 464-595 439 465-158 465-353 465-549 465-745 1150 440 466-305 466-501 466-698 466-895 \#151 ; - 441 467-452 467-649 467-847 468-045 1 115 442 468-600 468-798 468-997 469-196 2 230 443 469-748 469-948 470-148 470-348 3 345 444 470-897 471-098 471-299 471-500 4 460 445 472-046 472-348 472-451 472-653 5 575 446 473-196 473-399 473-603 473-807 6 690 447 474-346 474-550 474-756 474-961 7 805 448 475-496 475-702 475-909 476-115 8 920 449 476-647 476-854 477-062 477-270 9 1035 Appendix Table II .
( continued).\#151 ; For calculating T when and S are known , employing the formula T = +50j \#151 ; \J^ + 50 j \#151 ; pt .
T. 8 =1-54 .
a =1-55 .
a=i-56 .
a = i-57 .
450 477-799 478-007 478-216 478-425 1150 451 478-951 479-160 479-370 479-580 \#151 ; \#151 ; 452 480-103 480-314 480-525 480-736 1 115 453 481-256 481-468 481-680 481-893 2 230 454 482-410 482-623 482-836 483-050 3 345 455 483-564 483-778 483-992 484-207 4 460 456 484-718 484-933 485-149 485-365 5 575 457 485-873 486-089 486-306 486-524 6 690 458 487-028 487-246 487-464 487-683 7 805 459 488-184 488-403 488-622 488-842 8 920 460 489-341 489-561 489-781 490-002 9 1035 461 490-498 490-719 490-940 491-162 462 491-655 491-877 492-100 492-323 463 492-812 493-036 493-260 493-485 464 493-969 494-195 494-421 494-647 465 495-127 495-355 495-582 495-810 466 496-286 496-516 496-744 496-973 467 497-446 497-677 497-907 498-137 468 498-606 498-838 499-070 499-301 1160 469 499-766 500-000 500-233 500-465 \#151 ; 470 500-927 501-162 501-396 501-630 1 116 471 502-089 502-325 502-560 502-796 2 232 472 503-251 503-488 503-725 503-962 3 348 473 504-414 504-652 504-890 505-128 4 464 474 505-577 505-816 506-055 506-295 5 580 475 506-741 506-981 507-221 507-462 6 696 476 507-905 508-147 508-388 508-630 7 812 477 509-070 509-313 509-555 509-799 8 928 478 510-235 510-479 510-723 510-968 9 1044 479 511-400 511-646 511-891 512-138 480 512-565 512-812 513-060 513-308 481 513-731 513-981 514-229 514-478 482 514-898 515-149 515-399 515-649 483 516-065 516-318 516-569 516-821 484 517-233 517-487 517-740 517-993 485 518-402 518-657 518-911 519-165 486 519-571 519-827 520-082 520-338 1170 487 520-741 520-998 521-254 521-512 _ j 488 521-911 522-169 522-427 522-686 1 117 489 523-081 523-340 523-600 523-861 2 234 490 524-251 524-512 524-773 525-036 3 351 491 525-422 525-685 525-947 526-211 i 1 468 492 526-594 526-858 527-122 527-387 585 493 527-766 528-032 528-297 528-563 6 702 494 528-938 529-206 .
529-473 529-740 7 819 495 530-111 530-381 530-649 530-917 8 936 496 531-285 531-556 531-825 532-095 9 1053 497 532-460 532-732 533-002 533-274 498 533-635 533-908 534-179 534-453 499 534-811 535-085 535-358 535-633 500 535-987 536-262 536-537 536-813 COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS Appendix Table III.\#151 ; Temperatures of Ebullition of Water under varying Pressures .
Calculated by Dr. Brooch from the observations of Regnault .
Millims .
Tenths of a millimetre I Pro .
Pts. 0 .
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
8 .
9 .
730 98'-8802 .8840 .8878 .8916 .8954 .8992 .9030 .9068 1 .9106 .9144 38 731 .9182 .9220 .9258 .9295 .9333 .9371 .9409 .9447 .9485 .9523 732 .9561 .9599 .9637 .9674 .9712 .9750 .9788 .9826 .9864 .9902 1 3-8 733 .9939 .9977 .0015 .0053 .0091 .0128 .0166 .0204 .0242 .0280 2 7-6 734 99'-0318 .0355 .0393 .0431 .0469 .0506 .0544 .0582 .0620 .0658 3 11-4 4 15-2 .
735 99'-0695 .0733 .0771 .0808 .0846 .0884 .0922 .0959 .0997 .1035 5 19-0 736 T073 .1110 .1148 .1186 .1223 T261 T299 .1336 T374 T412 6 22-8 737 T449 .1487 .1525 T562 T600 T638 .1675 T713 T751 .1788 7 26-6 738 .1826 .1863 .1901 T939 T976 .2014 .2051 .2089 .2127 .2164 8 30-4 739 .2202 .2239 .2277 .2315 .2352 .2390 .2427 .2465 .2502 .2540 9 342 740 99'-2577 .2615 .2652 .2690 .2728 .2765 .2803 .2840 .2878 .2915 37 741 .2953 .2990 .3028 .3065 .3102 .3140 .3177 .3215 .3252 .3290 742 .3327 .3365 .3402 .3440 .3477 .3514 .3552 .3589 .3627 .3664 1 3-7 743 .3702 .3739 .3776 .3814 .3851 .3889 .3926 .3963 .4001 .4038 2 7*4 744 .4075 .4113 .4150 | .4187 .4225 .4262 .4299 .4337 .4374 .4412 3 11-1 4 14-8 745 99'-4449 .4486 .4523 .4561 .4598 .4635 .4673 .4710 .4747 .4785 5 18-5 746 .4822 .4859 .4896 .4934 .4971 .5008 .5045 .5083 .5120 .5157 6 22-2 747 .5194 .5232 .5269 .5306 .5343 .5381 .5418 .5455 .5492 .5529 7 25-9 748 .5567 .5604 .5641 .5678 .5715 .5752 .5790 .5827 .5864 .5901 8 29-6 749 .5938 .5975 .6013 .6050 .6087 .6124 .6161 .6198 .6235 .6273 9 33-3 750 99'*6310 .6347 .6384 .6421 .6458 .6495 .6532 .6569 .6606 .6643 36 751 .6681 .6718 .6755 .6792 .6829 .6866 .6903 .6940 .6977 .7014 752 .7051 .7088 .7126 .7162 .7199 .7236 .7273 .7310 .7347 .7384 1 3-6 753 .7421 .7458 .7495 .7532 .7569 .7606 .7643 .7680 j -7717 .7754 2 7-2 754 .7791 .7828 .7865 .7902 .7938 .7975 .8012 .8049 | -8086 .8123 3 10-8 i 4 14-4 755 99'-8160 .8197 .8234 .8271 .8308 .8344 .8381 .8418 !
.8455 .8492 5 18-0 756 '.8529 .8566 .8603 .8639 .8676 .8713 .8750 .8787 1 .8824 .8860 6 2U6 757 .8897 .8934 .8971 .9008 .9044 .9081 .9118 .9155 !
.9192 .9228 7 25 '2 758 .9265 .9302 .9339 .9376 .9412 .9449 .9486 .9523 .9559 .9596 8 28-8 759 .9633 .9670 .9706 .9743 .9780 .9816 .9853 .9890 .9927 .9964 9 32-4 760 100'-oooo .0037 .0073 .0110 .0147 .0183 .0220 .0257 .0293 .0330 36 761 .0367 .0403 .0440 .0477 .0513 .0550 .0587 .0623 .0660 .0696 762 .0733 .0770 .0806 .0843 .0880 .0916 .0953 .0989 .1026 .1062 1 3-6 763 .1099 T136 .1172 .1209 T245 .1282 .1318 T355 T392 T428 2 7-2 764 1465 T501 .1538 .1574 T611 .1647 T684 .1720 .1757 T793 3 10-8 4 14-4 765 100 ' *1830 T866 .1903 .1939 .1976 .2012 .2049 .2085 .2122 .2158 5 18-0 766 .2194 .2231 .2267 .2304 .2340 .2377 .2413 .2450 .2486 .2522 6 2U6 767 .2559 .2595 .2632 .2668 .2704 .2741 .2777 .2814 .2850 .2886 7 25-2 768 .2923 .2959 .2995 .3032 .3068 .3105 .3141 .3177 .3214 .3250 8 28-8 769 .3286 .3323 .3359 .3395 .3432 .3468 .3504 .3540 .3577 .3613 9 32-4 770 | 100'*3649 .3686 .0^700 Kf % .3758 .3794 .3831 .3867 .3903 .3940 .3976 VOL. CXCIV.\#151 ; A. s Appendix Table III .
( continued ) .
Millims .
Tenths of a millimetre .
Pro .
Pts. 1 0 .
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
| 7 .
8 .
9 .
770 100'-3649 .3686 .3722 .3758 .3794 .3831 .3867 .3903 .3940 .3976 36 771 .4012 .4048 .4085 .4121 .4157 .4193 .4230 .4266 .4302 .4338 772 .4374 .4411 .4447 .4483 .4519 .4555 .4592 .4628 .4664 .4700 1 3-6 773 .
.4736 .4773 .4809 .4845 .4881 .4917 .4953 .4989 .5026 .5062 2 7-2 774 .5098 .5134 .5170 .5206 .5242 .5278 .5315 .5351 .5387 .5423 3 10-8 i 4 14 4 775 .5459 .5495 .5531 .5567 .5603 .5639 .5675 .5712 .5748 .5784 5 18-0 776 .5820 .5856 .5892 .5928 .5964 .6000 .6036 .6072 .6108 .6144 6 21-6 777 .6180 .6216 .6252 .6288 .6324 .6360 .6396 .6432 .6468 .6504 7 25-2 778 .6540 .6576 .6612 .6648 .6684 .6720 .6756 .6792 .6828 .6864 8 28 ; 8 779 .6900 .6936 .6971 .7007 .7043 .7079 .7115 .7151 .7187 .7223 9 1 32*4 Appendix Table IV.\#151 ; For Conversion of Water Pressure into its Equivalent in Mercury .
1 millim. Water \#151 ; 0*0736 millim. Mercury .
Interpolated from table given in Landolt and Bornstein 's ' Physikalisch-chemische Tabellen .
' Note.\#151 ; Large temperature differences might influence the last figure of this table .
Water .
Mercury .
I Water .
Mercury .
millims. millims. millims. millims. 0-05 0-004 1-55 0-114 0T0 0-007 1-60 0T18 0T5 0-011 1-65 0-121 0-20 0-015 1-70 0-125 0-25 0-018 1-75 0T29 0-30 0-022 1-80 0T32 0-35 0-026 1-85 0T36 0-40 0-029 1-90 0T40 0-45 0-033 1-95 0T44 0-50 0-037 2-00 OT47 0-55 0-040 2-05 0T51 0-60 0-044 2 10 0T55 0-65 0-048 2-15 0T58 0-70 0-052 2-20 0T62 0-75 0-055 2-25 0T66 0-80 0-059 2-30 0-169 0-85 0-063 2-35 0-173 0-90 0-066 2-40 OT77 0-95 0-070 2-45 0T80 1-00 0-074 2-50 0-184 1-05 0-077 2-55 0T88 1T0 0-081 2-60 0T91 1T5 0-085 2-65 0T95 1-20 0-088 2-70 0T99 1-25 0-092 2-75 0-202 1-30 0-096 2-80 0-206 1-35 0-099 2-85 0-210 1-40 0T03 2-90 0-213 1-45 0-107 2-95 0-217 1-50 0-110 3-00 0-221 Appendix Table V.\#151 ; Showing the value of d \#151 ; T \#151 ; pt corresponding to different values of T near ] 00 ' , deduced from the formula d S m ) T 10ft Note.\#151 ; Between 0 ' and 100J pt is greater than T , and d is negative .
Above 100 ' pt is less than T , and d is positive .
T. / T \2 T \m ) Too* $ = 1-500 .
\lt ; 5= 1-510 .
o=l-520 .
1-530 .
\lt ; 5=1-540 .
8 = 1-550 .
8 = 1-560 .
8 = 1-570 .
$=1-580 .
r a =1*590 .
8= 1-600 .
101-0 100-9 100-8 100-7 100-6 100-5 100-4 100-3 100-2 100-1 100-0 99-9 99-8 99-7 99-6 99-5 99-4 99-3 99-2 99-1 99-0 98-9 98-8 98-7 98-6 98-5 98-4 98-3 98-2 98-1 98-0 + 0-0101 + 0-0091 + 0-0081 + 0-0071 + 0-0061 + 0-0050 + 0-0040 + 0-0030 + 0-0020 + 0-0010 0-0000 -o-ooio -0-0020 - 0-0030 -0-0040 -0-0049 -0-0059 -0-0069 -0-0079 -0-0089 -0-0099 -0-0109 -0-0118 -0-0128 -0-0138 -0-0147 -0-0157 -0-0167 -0-0177 -0-0186 -0-0196 + 0-0151 + 0-0136 + 0-0121 + 0-0106 + 0-0091 + 0-0075 + 0-0060 + 0-0045 + 0-0030 + 0-0015 0-0000 - 0-0015 - 0-0030 -0-0045 - 0-0060 -0-0073 - 0-0088 -0-0103 -0-0118 -0-0133 -0-0148 -0-0163 -0-0177 -0-0192 - 0-0207 - 0-0220 - 0-0235 - 0-0250 - 0-0265 -0-0279 -0-0294 + 0-0153 + 0-0137 + 0-0122 + 0-0107 + 0-0092 + 0-0075 + 0-0060 + 0-0045 + 0-0030 + 0-0015 0 0000 -0-0015 - 0-0030 - 0-0045 - 0-0060 -0-0074 -0-0089 -0-0104 -0-0119 -0-0134 -0-0149 -0-0164 -0-0178 -0-0193 - 0-0208 -0-0222 - 0-0237 -0-0252 - 0-0267 -0-0281 -0-0296 + 0-0154 + 0-0138 + 0-0123 + 0-0108 + 0-0093 + 0-0076 + 0-0061 + 0-0046 + 0-0030 + 0-0015 0-0000 -0-0015 -0-0030 - 0-0046 -0-0061 - 0-0074 - 0-0090 -0-0105 -0-0120 -0-0135 - 0-0150 -0-0166 -0-0179 -0-0195 -0-0210 -0-0223 -0-0239 - 0-0254 -0-0269 -0-0283 -0-0298 + 0-0155 + 0-0139 + 0-0124 + 0-0109 + 0-0093 + 0-0076 + 0-0061 + 0-0046 + 0-0031 + 0-0015 0-0000 -0-0015 - 0-0031 - 0-0046 -0-0061 - 0-0075 -0-0090 -0-0106 -0-0121 -0-0136 -0-0151 -0-0167 -0-0181 -0-0196 -0-0211 -0-0225 - 0-0240 - 0-0256 -0-0271 -0-0285 - 0-0300 + 0-0156 + 0-0140 + 0-0125 + 0-0109 + 0-0094 + 0-0077 + 0-0062 + 0-0046 + 0-0031 + 0-0015 0-0000 -0-0015 -0-0031 - 0-0046 -0-0062 -0-0075 -0-0091 -0-0106 -0-0122 -0-0137 -0-0152 -0-0168 -0-0182 -0-0197 -0-0213 - 0-0226 - 0-0242 - 0-0257 - 0-0273 - 0-0286 - 0-0302 + 0-0157 + 0-0141 + 0-0126 + 0-0110 + 0-0095 + 0-0077 + 0-0062 + 0-0046 + 0-0031 + 0-0015 0-0000 -0-0015 -0-0031 - 0-0046 -0-0062 - 0-0076 -0-0091 -0-0107 -0-0122 -0-0138 -0-0153 -0-0169 -0-0183 -0-0198 -0-0214 - 0-0228 - 0-0243 -0-0259 - 0-0274 - 0-0288 - 00304 + 0-0158 + 0-0142 + 0-0126 + 0-0111 + 0-0095 + 0-0078 + 0-0062 + 0-0047 + 0-0031 + 0-0016 0-0000 -0-0016 -0-0031 - 0-0047 - 0-0062 - 0-0076 - 0-0092 -0-0108 -00123 -0-0139 -0-0154 -0-0170 -0-0184 - 0-0200 -0-0215 -0-0229 - 0-0245 -0-0261 -0-0276 - 0-0290 - 0-0306 + 0-0159 + 0-0143 + 0-0127 + 00111 + 0-0096 + 0-0078 + 0-0063 + 0-0047 + 0-0031 + 0-0016 0-0000 -0-0016 - 00031 - 0-0047 - 0-0063 -0-0077 - 0-0093 -0-0108 -0-0124 -0-0140 -0-0155 -0-0171 -0-0185 - 0-0201 -0-0217 -0-0231 - 0-0246 -0-0262 - 0-0278 - 0-0292 - 0-0308 + 0-0160 + 0-0144 + 0-0128 + 0-0112 + 0-0096 + 0-0079 + 0-0063 + 0-0047 + 0-0032 + 0-0016 0-0000 -0-0016 - 0-0032 - 0-0047 - 0-0063 -0-0077 -0-0093 -0-0109 -0-0125 -0-0141 -0-0156 -0-0172 -0-0186 - 0-0202 -0-0218 -0-0232 - 0-0248 - 0-02\#163 ; 4 - 0-0280 - 0-0294 -0-0310 !
+0-0161 + 0-0145 + 0-0129 + 0-0113 + 0-0097 + 0-0079 + 0-0064 + 0-0048 + 0-0032 + 0-0016 0-0000 -0-0016 - 0-0032 - 0-0048 - 0-0064 - 0-0078 - 0-0094 -0-0110 -0-0126 -0-0142 -0-0157 -0-0173 -0-0188 - 0-0204 -0-0219 - 0-0234 - 0-0250 -0-0266 - 0-0281 - 0-0296 -0-0312 + 0-0162 + 0-0146 + 0-0130 + 0-0114 + 0-0098 + 0-0080 + 0-0064 + 0-0048 + 0-0032 + 0-0016 0-0000 -0-0016 - 0-0032 - 0-0048 - 0-0064 - 0-0078 - 0-0094 -0-0110 -0-0126 -0-0142 -0-0158 -0-0174 -00189 - 0-0205 -0-0221 - 0-0235 -00251 - 0-0267 - 0-0283 - 0-0298 -0-0314 COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
APPENDIX II .
[ Added December 1 , 1899 .
] We think we are justified in adding , in the form of an appendix , some further considerations on the question of the sulphur boiling-point , the results of which we obtained since the date of handing in the paper .
On p. 99 of the text are given the observations of Regnault on the variation of the boiling-point of sulphur with pressure near 760 millims. The formula used by Regnault himself to express the results of his observations over the whole range was of a logarithmic kind , and gave for the pressure 760 millims. the value 4480,38 .
If , however , we disregard the extreme portions of the range and find a formula to represent only those observations near the normal pressure , we find for this point a value nearly a degree lower .
Taking the four observations quoted in the text , and representing them by a formula T = a + bp + of which the constants a , b , and c are determined by least squares , we find for p = 760 the value 447''51 , with residuals very much smaller than those given by the logarithmic formula .
We are aware that to represent four observations by a formula with three constants is not giving very much latitude for probable errors , but we think , nevertheless , that 447''5 gives much more nearly the true result to be deduced from Regnault 's experiments than his own much higher figure .
Accepting this method of treating his observations , we further find that instead of the value for dt/ dp0o,082 per millim. as given by the logarithmic formula , we get 0'*088 , a value very appreciably higher .
If our determinations of ptshad all been made at 760 millims. pressure , or if this had been the mean pressure of each different series , the value to be taken for dt/ dp would have been of no great consequence , but as in each case the mean pressure fell appreciably below this , we thought it desirable to see how much the assumption of the higher value might influence the results of our experiments .
We gave in the text the results of some calculations on the series of sulphur points taken with the Kew platinum thermometers K. 1 and K.3 , made with the object of arriving at an independent value for Dr. Chree has recently completed for publication an investigation into the behaviour of the Kew platinum thermometers , and their permanence over a considerable period , and finds that , when one or two sources of uncertainty are eliminated , the values we gave for for K.l and K.3 are both somewhat too small .
He has courteously permitted us to state that the most probable value for this number deducible from the different series of determinations of the sulphur point , which he has worked uo , is much more nearly COMPARISON OF PLATINUM AND GAS THERMOMETERS .
0o,090 than 0''082 , agreeing in a remarkable manner with the result we have just deduced from Regnault 's experiments .
As the mean pressure of our sulphur point determinations was below 760 millims. in all the series , we thought it of interest to recalculate the results of each set , applying the value 0'088 for dtjdp .
Combining this with the known value of d.pt/ dt , we have for d.pt/ dp the value 0'0773 at 445 ' .
The values of pt , from the separate experiments with K.8 and K.9 , are given in the following table :\#151 ; K.8 .
K.9 .
421-58 421*46 .56 .42 .52 .49 .53 .49 .56 .44 .57 .
.59 421-559 421-460 These values of pts only differ very slightly from those previously found .
We next proceed to find for each thermometer from the equivalent values of T and pt given by the comparisons near the sulphur point the Ta corresponding to the value of ptg deduced above .
We formerly used for this purpose a formula containing the term ( pt \#151 ; ptg ) to the first and second powers , but as there appeared some doubt as to how the result might be affected by stopping short at the second term , in the new calculation we tried several formulae of different types , and included varying numbers of experiments in the neighbourhood of the sulphur point .
We had already satisfied ourselves that Callendab 's formula closely represents the divergence between the platinum and gas scales over the range covered by our experiments .
Utilising this formula and including for K.8 all the experiments between T = 412''65 and T = 455''54 , nine in all , we obtain for the Ts corresponding to the pt3 above given the value 445'"27 , which is sensibly identical with that previously found .
For the two series with K.9 , however , we find that while the first series of observations gives a result for Ts 44 5 ' *2 7 , the second series , including the comparisons between T \#151 ; 405''93 and T = 450o,58 , gives 445''05 , which is appreciably lower than the result given in the text .
The discrepancy between the two values furnished by the thermometer K.9 is lessened by excluding some of the comparisons which are at some distance from the sulphur point , but the mean result is hardly sensibly affected .
We have also made the same kind of calculation of a value for Ts from the comparisons with thermometer K.2 , though , in this case , none of the comparisons were made at temperatures very near the sulphur point .
We find , employing the same formula to obtain the T " the value 445 ' *1 , which is only 0o , l lower than the mean previously found from the K.8 and K.9 experiments .
During this series of comparisons the pressure of the nitrogen in the gas thermometer was sensibly lower than in any of the preceding ones , being only 392 millims. instead of 529 millims. In view of the uncertainties in the value of dt/ dp and those arising from imperfect data as to the expansion of the porcelain at high temperatures , we prefer to suppress the hundredths of a degree from our mean result for the temperature of the boiling-point of sulphur , and to give for this point the value T , = 445'2 on the scale of the constant volume nitrogen thermometer .
Worthington \amp ; Cole .
Series XII .
Fig. 2 .
Phil. Trans. , , Vol. 194 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 5 .
Fig. 6 .
Worthington \amp ; Cole .
Phil. Frans .
, A , 194 .
Series XVIII .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 4 .
Worthington dr Cole .
Series XX .
Phil. Trans. , , Vol. 194 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 1 .
Series XXVI .
Fig. 3 .
Series XXVII .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Worthington \amp ; Cole .
Series XXVII .
Fig. 3 .
Phil. Trans. , A , Vol. 194 .
Fig. 1 .
Series XXVIII .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
Fig. 5 .

