Some Observations of odd Constitutions of Bodies .
A very curious Person , studying Physic at Leyden , to whom had been imparted those Relations about a Milky Substance in Veins , heretofore alleged in Numb. 6 .
returns , by way of gratitude , the following Observations .
There was ( faith he ) not many Years since , in this Country a Student , who being much addicted to the study of Astronomy , and spending very many Nights in Star-gazing , had , by the Nocturnal wet and cold temper of the Air , in such a manner obstructed the pores of his skin , that little or nothing exhaled from his Body ; which appeared hence , because that the shirt , he had worn five or six weeks , was then as white as if he had worn it but one day .
In the mean while he gathered a subcutaneous Water , of which yet he was afterwards well cured .
We have also ( faith the same ) seen here a young Maid , of about thirteen Years of age , which from the time that she was but six Years old , and began to be about her Mother in the Kitchen , would , as often as she was bid to bring her Salt , or could else come at it , fill her Pockets therewith , and eat it , as other children doe Sugar : whence she was so dried up , and grown so stiff , that she could not stir her limbs , and was thereby starved to death .
That Learned and Observing Doctor John Beal , upon the perusal of the forementioned Numb , 6 .
was pleased to communicate this Note To your Observation , of Milk in Veins , I can add a Phenomenon of some resemblance to it , which I received above 20 years ago from Thomas Day , an Apothecary in Came bridge ; vid .
That himself let a man blood in the arm , by order of Doctor Eade , a Physician there .
The mans blood was white as Milk , as it run out of his arm , it had a little dilute redness , but immediately , as it fell into the Vessel , it was presently white ; and it continued like drops of Milk on the pavement , where ever it fell .
The conjecture which the said Physician had of the cause of this appearance , was , that the Patient had much fed on Fish ; affirming withal , that he had soon been a Leper , if not prevented by Physic .

