1893 .
] Platinum Electrodes Sulphuric Acid .
77 the magnetising current .
Amongst other points referred to in this connexion is the time-lag in magnetisation , which is well shown by the curve-tracer , and the effects are compared of the same cycle of magnetic force gone through at various speeds .
It is shown that in solid bars 1*9 cm .
in diameter , especially in soft iron , remarkable evidences of time-lag are seen , even when the period of magnetic reversal is as long as 3 secs .
The work spent per cycle is a maximum at a particular frequency , which in such bars is very low .
The fourth and last section of the paper relates to the molecular theory of magnetisation , and describes experiments made with groups of small pivoted magnets .
It is shown that the behaviour of such groups , when exposed to the action of a variable magnetic field , presents striking points of resemblance to the behaviour of iron or steel under corresponding variations of magnetising force .
Results are given which tend to confirm the theory .
The particulars of the observations are set out in about forty sheets of curves which accompany the paper .
III .
" Polarisation of Platinum Electrodes in Sulphuric Acid .
" By James B. Henderson , B.Sc. Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. Received June 10 , 1893 .
This investigation was begun about the beginning of February , 1893 , at the instigation of Lord Kelvin , and was conducted in the Physical Laboratory of Glasgow University .
The object of the investigation was to obtain the difference of potential between two platinum electrodes immersed in a solution of sulphuric acid immediately after the stoppage of a current which had been electrolysing the solution , and to find how this difference varied with a variation in the intensity of the current or in the strength of the solution .
Former experiments by Buff ( ' Poggendorff , ' vol. 130 , p. 341 , 1867 ) and Fromme ( 'Wiedemann , ' vol. 33 , p. 80 , 1888 ) have given for the maximum polarisation with platinum wires of very small surface in the electrolysis of dilute sulphuric acid 3'5 and 4'6 volts .
Dr. Franz Richarz , in a paper " On the Polarisation of Small Electrodes in Dilute Sulphuric Acid , " read before the British Association at Bath ( 1888 ) , says of the above :\#151 ; " In these experiments the polarisation is calculated from measurements of the intensity of the galvanic current during the electrolysis , tacitly assuming that the resistance of the decomposition cell is independent of the intensity of the galvanic current .
The correctness of the supposition has not been proved .
I tried experiments by similar methods , and obtained yet greater values of the polarisation ; it was calculated with a current density of 12 amperes per square 78 Mr. J. B. Henderson .
Polarisation of [ June 15 , .
centimetre as 4'4 daniells ( 4'7 volts ) , and increased more and more with increasing intensity of the galvanic current .
It is very improbable that this can be right .
By supposing , however , that the resistance of the decomposition cell is not independent of the intensity , but decreases in a fixed manner with increasing intensity , the calculation of the same experiments gives small and constant values of polarisation .
" Fig. 1 .
BATTERV CELL The method Dr. Richarz used to find the polarisation in his investigation was independent of the resistance of the electrolytic cell .
The battery electrolytic cell and a switch , c1 ?
were joined in closed circuit .
A branch circuit containing a very high resistance , a galvanometer , and another switch , c2 , joined the two sides of the switch and c2 .
were the two contacts of a Helmholtz 's pendulum interrupter ) .
When c , was made there was a very small current through the galvanometer .
To determine the polarisation cx was broken , and immediately after c2 also .
In the short time between the interruption of cx and c2 a current strong for the sensibility of the galvanometer went through it .
The polarisation was calculated from the deflection given to the galvanometer needle by the impact of the current , which was proportional to the electromotive force of the battery minus the polarisation .
In this way Dr. Richarz found values for the polarisation never greater than 2'6 volts with small wire electrodes , and also got the same maximum with large platinum plates .
The cell used in the present investigation was a cylindrical glass vessel 10 cm .
diameter and 12 cm .
deep .
The electrodes were rectangular plates of platinum foil 7 cm .
long by 5'5 cm .
broad , and weie stiffened by being mounted on rectangular frames made by bending g-lass tubing ( fig. 2 ) .
The tubing of these frames also served to support the plates in vertical planes by being passed through holes in a bar of wood placed across the mouth of the vessel .
The plates were immersed in the solution to a depth of 5 cm .
, ha\ing their planes parallel and about 1 cm .
apart .
rlhere were thus 55 sq .
cm .
of surface of each plate wetted .
To find the polari- 1893 .
] Platinum Electrodes in Sulphuric Acid .
791 Fig. 2 .
sation one of Lord Kelvin 's quadrant electrometers was used , and by an arrangement , described later , the breaking of the electrolysing current circuit and the switching of the electrodes on to the terminals of the electrometer were done simultaneously .
Before switching as above , however , the needle of the electrometer was deflected by making a difference of potential between the pairs of quadrants , and this deflection was so adjusted by trial and error that , when the electrodes were switched on , the needle was n\amp ; farther deflected .
For deflecting the needle of the electrometer a high resistance slide bridge was used .
A difference of potential was maintained between its two ends , and the difference of potential ' between one end and the slider was used to deflect the needle , so-that by moving , the slider one way or the other the deflection could be increased or diminished at will .
The electrolysing current was kept constant throughout each experiment , being measured by one of Lord Kelvin 's electric balances and adjusted by a rheostat .
One terminal of the electrometer , one electrode , and one end of the slide bridge were connected together and then put to earth .
The current for the electrolysis was got from eight large secondary cells , and the difference of potential between the ends of the slide bridge was maintained by two small secondary cells .
The arrangement of keys can be best understood from the diagram .
By pressing the key k ' , connexion was made between the slider and the unearthed quadrants , and when the key k was free , the circuit was complete for the electrolysing current , but when k was pressed down the circuit was broken , and the unearthed electrode was connected to the unearthed quadrants .
Mr. J. B. Henderson .
Polarisation of [ June 15 , Fig. 3 .
BATTERY CURRENT- METER RHEOSTAT ELECTROLYTIC CELL QUADRANT ELECTROMETER SLIDE BRIDGE The order of an experiment was the following .
After carefully standardising the electrometer , the electrolysis was started , and the unearthed electrode connected by a wire ( not shown in the diagram ) to the unearthed quadrants .
The deflection of the needle thus produced , which showed the difference of potential ' between the electrodes , continued to increase steadily until , after the lapse of an interval of time depending on the strength of the current , it became constant .
When this stage was reached , the wire mentioned above was removed and the key pressed and kept down , thus making connexion between the slider and the quadrants .
The slider was then moved along until the deflection was nearly equal to that which would be given by the polarisation , and the key k momentarily pressed , thereby breaking the current circuit and connecting the electrode to the quadrants .
An impulsive deflection immediately followed , unless the potential of the quadrants was equal to that of polarisation .
If this deflection was negative ( which indicated that the potential of polarisation was less than that of the quadrants ) the slider was moved so as to reduce the potential of the quadrants below that of polarisation , thereby making the impulsive 1893 .
] Platinum Electrodes in Sulphuric Acid .
81 deflection positive , and then the experiment was continued as below .
When the positive deflection was obtained its amount was noted , and the slider was moved so as to increase the steady deflection nearly up to the point on the scale reached by the impulsive one , and another trial then made .
In this way , by watching the point reached by each impulsive deflection , and then increasing the steady one almost up to that point , the latter was increased until the former vanished , that is , until the potential of the quadrants was that of polarisation .
The magnitude of this deflection was then noted , and the polarisation calculated from it .
In these trials the key Jc was kept down only for about two seconds , just sufficient time to allow the extent of the deflection to be seen , and at least two minutes were allowed to elapse between one trial and the next .
After the maximum deflection bad been reached , a considerable interval of time was allowed to elapse , and then the key raised and k simultaneously lowered and kept down , and the rate of fall of the deflection noted .
The above motion of the keys threw the slider off and .
put the electrode on to the quadrants , at the same time stopping the current .
The deflection was therefore due to polarisation alone , and its rate of fall was therefore the rate of fall of the polarisation .
The results of one series of experiments are given in the accompanying table .
All the results point to the polarisation being constant with large electrodes , being independent of the strength of the solution and the intensity of the current .
The variations in the figures do not occur Percentage strength of solution .
Strength of current in amperes .
Time the current had been passing .
Polarisation in volts .
30 0-2 h. m. 3 25 2 066 )( 0*5 0 45 2*060 JJ 10 0 35 2-060 J ) 1-0 0 45 2-124 20 0*1 3 22 2-126 ) ) 0*5 1 25 2-139 \gt ; 9 1*0 0 25 2 -090 1 '0 0 35 2-124 ib 0*1 17 40 2 -139 5 ) 0-5 1 19 2 066 1*0 0 44 2 -066 5 0 1 18 30 2 -116 99 0 5 1 36 2-078 99 10 1 0 2-083 99 1*0 3 15 2-054 VOL. LIV .
Mean polarisation = 2'09 volts .
G Mr. C. Davison .
On [ June 15 , in any order , and are all such as might be expected in experimental results of this nature .
Some of the greatest variations were obtained in exactly similar experiments performed at different times .
' The mean of all the values of the polarisation in this table is 2*09 volts .
The rate of fall of the polarisation depends on the time the current has been electrolysing the solution , and also on its intensity , but in every case the fall is very rapid at first , being in some cases as much in the first minute as it is in the next five minutes , and the fall in the first minute is never less than one-fourth of the polarisation .
IV .
" On the Annual and Semi-annual* Seismic Periods .
" By Charles Davison , M.A. , Mathematical Master at King Edward 's High School , Birmingham .
Communicated by Professor J. H. Pointing , F.R.S. Received June 13 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) Method of Investigation.\#151 ; The method adopted is similar to that employed by Dr. 0 .
Gr .
Knott in his paper on " Earthquake Frequency .
" If / ( # ) be a periodic function of 0 , then f ( O ' ) \#151 ; Uo + ^iCOS ( 0 + \#171 ; i)+O2COS ( 20+at)+ ... .
+an cos ( n0+txn ) from which it follows that \#151 ; [ f(0)d6=zao-\------ COS ( 0-\-ai)--*COS ( 3 + + ... .
" 37r * ' .
U7T 2an sm \#151 ; -J--------cos ( + \#171 ; \#187 ; ) + ... . .
Mr This latter expression gives the mean value of f(0 ) through an interval tt/ 2 on either side of 0 .
From it , all terms involving even multiples of 0 are eliminated , and the coefficients of all terms after the second are diminished to a greater extent than that of the second .
A definition of the unit earthquake having been adopted , the earthquakes of different districts are classified in half-monthly groups , the first half of February containing fourteen days , and of all the other months fifteen days ; and the numbers so obtained are reduced to intervals of equal length ( fifteen days ) .
The numbers for the two halves of each month are added together .
The mean of the numbers for the six months from November to April gives the six-monthly

