258 Mr. G. Bischof on [ Mar. 28 , There is not a feature connected with the aerial echoes which cannot be brought out by experiments in the laboratory .
I have recently made the following experiment:\#151 ; A rectangle , 22 inches by 12 , is crossed by 23 brass tubes , each having a slit along it from which gas can issue .
In this way , 23 low , flat flames are obtained .
A sounding reed , fixed in a short tube , is placed at one end of the rectangle , and a sensitive flame at some distance beyond the other end .
When the reed sounds , the flame in front of it is violently agitated , and roars boisterously .
Turning on the gas , and lighting it as it issues from the slits , the air above the flames becomes so heterogeneous that - the sensitive flame is instantly stilled by the aerial reflection , rising from a height of 6 inches to a height of 18 inches .
Here we have the acoustic opacity of the air in front of the South Foreland strikingly imitated .
Turning off the gas , and removing the sensitive flame to some distance behind the reed , it burns there tranquilly , though the reed may be sounding .
Again lighting the gas as it issues from the brass tubes , the sound reflected from the heterogeneous air throws the sensitive flame into violent agitation .
Here we have imitated the aerial echoes heard when standing behind the syren-trumpets at the South Foreland .
The experiment is extremely simple , and in the highest degree impressive .
March 28 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Notice was given that the name of Hr .
Radcliffe had been withdrawn from the list of Candidates for the Fellowship .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On Putrescent Organic Matter in Potable Water .
II .
" By Gustav Bischof .
Received February 18 , 1878 .
Communicated by E , Frankland , F.R.S. Referring to the paper which I communicated to the Royal Society last session* , I have to add , that after passing water continuously for six weeks through one of the vessels there described , filled with spongy * " Proceedings , " vol. xxvi , p. 152 .
1878 .
] Putrescent Organic Matter Potable Water .
259 iron , and on the bottom of which meat had been placed , the latter was still in a perfectly fresh and hard condition .
This result encouraged me to try in a similar way the action of spongy iron upon hay infusion .
The hay , steeped in water , was heated for two days to about 35 ' C. The infusion then showed , under the microscope , an abundance of organic life .
I could not obviously test the action of spongy iron upon this infusion , in the manner described in my last paper , namely , by passing it continuously for weeks through a vessel containing spongy iron and meat .
However , I believe the result will be considered equally conclusive as to the absence of any putrefactive agents in hay infusion after filtration through spongy iron , should the meat remain fresh on being immersed in the filtered liquid for several weeks .
The following arrangement was adopted:\#151 ; A large vessel was filled with the ordinary filtering materials employed in spongy iron filters , namely , commencing at the bottom , with gravel , sand , pyrolusite , and spongy iron .
The three first materials were introduced to prevent the filtered solution containing any iron .
The vessel was provided with a neck at the bottom , and a volume of the hay infusion , equal to the bulk of spongy iron in the filter , was passed through it every 45 minutes .
Into the neck of the vessel I fixed some tin tubing by means of an india-rubber stopper .
The tubing was connected with six tins , or cylindrical vessels of tin-plate , holding about 500 cub. centims. each .
After placing a piece of fresh meat in each tin , a lid was soldered on air-tight .
The tubing was so arranged , that the inlet tube passed to the bottom of each tin , an exit tube carrying the water off from the top .
By first pressing the tubing together , and then cutting it , all the tins could be readily separated without exposure to air .
Bach tin was-provided on the top with a short piece of tubing , to serve later on for the escape of steam .
In order to wash the apparatus and materials , I passed , in the first instance , water of the New River Company continuously through them for 24 hours .
The tins and contents were then immersed for two hours in boiling water to destroy any putrefactive germs adhering to the meat .
After closing the tubing , which served during boiling for the escape of steam , the tins were cooled , and then the filtration of New River water continued for two more hours .
The last two tins , which , it will be understood , contained filtered water and meat , were now detached , and into one of them I passed 100 cub. centims. of filtered air , after connecting under alcohol with a glass tube , 6 feet long , containing compressed cotton wool , through which the air was forced .
These two tins were kept for comparison with those in which the meat was to remain in contact with filtered hay infusion .
The infusion was passed for six hours through the 260 On Putrescent Organic Matter in Potable Water .
[ Mar. 28 , apparatus , including the remaining four tins .
These being then also detached , 100 cub. centims. each of filtered air were passed as before into two of the tins .
On opening the tins , which contained filtered water , the one with , the other without filtered air , the meat was , after four to five weeks ' standing , found to be quite fresh .
Nevertheless , when , after some time , a drop adhering to the meat was examined under the microscope , moving organisms were detected .
The tins which contained meat and the filtered hay infusion gave similar results .
One pair of the tins , the one with , the other without filtered air , was opened after nine weeks , and the other after nine months ' standing .
In both cases the meat remained fresh .
The hay infusion after filtration had a peculiar smell , reminding me of some kinds of cheese .
This obviously imparted to the meat a similar smell , which , however , was quite distinct from that of putrid meat .
After the samples of meat had been standing for 24 hours , the smell decreased considerably , and the following day it was hardly perceptible .
Between the third and sixth day the several samples exhibited gradually the characteristic smell of putrid meat ; those samples which did not contain filtered air resisting putrescence , apparently , longer than the others .
The filtered hay infusion , which had not been in contact with meat , had , after several months ' standing still , the same peculiar smell .
The conclusions which I drew in my last paper as to the antiseptic properties of spongy iron upon putrefactive agents in ordinary water apply therefore equally to hay infusion .
However , those samples to which filtered air had been supplied , prove more conclusively than my experiments last year that the bacteria , or their germs , are not revived when supplied with oxygen after the filtration .
This , in my opinion , is a result of some importance , as it demonstrates that , by filtration through spongy iron , putrefaction of organic matter is not only suspended for a time , but that it ceases entirely until reinstated by some putrefactive agent foreign to the water .
Since communicating my last paper , I have also continued the inquiry , how the peculiar action of spongy iron upon organic matter is to be explained .
If a rod be inserted into a body of spongy iron , which has been in contact with water for some time , gas bubbles are seen to escape .
This gas is sometimes explosive , sometimes not .
I collected a quantity of the gas from two different filters , one of which had been in constant operation with ordinary water for ten months .
It was free from any carbonic anhydride , but contained carbon and hydro gen .
The hydrogen obviously results from the decomposition of water by spongy iron .
The carbon might be due to the decomposition of car bonaceous organic matter , or it might be produced similarly to the carbo-hydrogen obtained , when dissolving ordinary iron by an aci 1878 .
] Mr. B. T. Lowne on Eyes of Insects .
To decide which of these explanations is correct , a vessel was filled with spongy iron and distilled water , the air being expelled from the former as far as practicable .
After three months ' standing , I analyzed the gas , collected as before by inserting a rod into the spongy iron .
I found that it neither contained hydrogen nor carbon , therefore most probably consisted only of atmospheric nitrogen .
This appears to indicate that the carbon , which was obtained in the previous experiment , is actually the result of the decomposition of organic matter .
The connexion between disease and impure water , more especially if it be contaminated by putrescent organic matter , has been strongly urged by various authorities , such as Drs. Buchanan , Frankland , Sanderson , Simon , Tyndall , and others .
This has led me to attach such importance to the demonstration that " living ferments " are absent from polluted water after filtration through spongy iron .
Analytical figures , in their turn , have proved that even Thames water can by filtration through this material be made , chemically speaking , purer than some of the best deep well waters .
As the latter are mostly more or less supplied by polluted surface water , which is purified by filtration in passing downwards , there is no reason why they should be preferred to artificially filtered water , provided the physiological character of both proves to be alike .
This inquiry is at the present moment being officially instituted in several countries .
Trustworthy evidence in the form of actual experience may thus ere long be expected to settle the final question , whether and how far the artificial purification of impure water by spongy iron can be considered a safeguard against the propagation of disease .
II .
" On the Modifications of the Simple and Compound Eyes of Insects .
" By B. Thompson Lowne , F.R.C.S. , Lecturer on Physiology at the Middlesex Hospital Medical School , Arris and Gale Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Royal College of .Surgeons .
Communicated by Professor Flower , F.R.S. Received February 27 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The simple eyes of insects have been so accurately described by previous observers , that little need be said on their structure .
I have described the simple eye of Eristalis , chiefly for comparison with the compound and aggregate eyes .
The close relation of the recipient rods to the inner surface of the cornea in this insect is most noteworthy , since , combined with the great convexity of the cornea and the highly refractive nature of the rods themselves , this renders the formation of an optical picture impossible .
These facts with the small

