136 Localisation of Function the Lemur s Brain .
By F. W. Mott , M.D. , F.R.S. , and W. D. Halliburton , M.D. , F.R.S. ( Received November 14 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1907 .
) [ Plates 2\#151 ; 4 .
] The brain of the Lemur , the lowest of the ape-like animals , does not appear to have been subjected previously to a thorough examination .
Page May and Elliott Smith brought a brief communication on the subject before the Cambridge Meeting of the British Association in 1904* Their experiments were apparently limited to stimulation of the cerebral cortex , and they have never published a full account of their work .
Brodmannf has worked out some of the histological details of the structure of the cortex cerebri , and Max Volscht has performed a stimulation experiment upon one Lemur .
The work of these investigators will be referred to again in the course of this paper .
Our own investigation has in the main dealt with the motor centres , and the experimental methods adopted have been the usual ones of stimulation and extirpation .
In animals so low in the scale , stimulation is to be regarded as the more decisive of the two methods for the purpose of localisation .
The extirpation experiments have , however , confirmed the results of stimulation , and in these experiments the course of the resulting degeneration was followed by histological examination of the brain and spinal cord .
The results , moreover , agree remarkably closely with those obtained by a study of the histological structure of the various regions of the cortex cerebri .
One of us ( W. D. H ) is responsible for the experimental part of the investigation which was carried out at King 's College , London ; the other ( F. W. M. ) is responsible for the histological portion .
We have to thank Miss Agnes Kelley for assistance in the histological work , and also for the drawings which accompany this paper .
S The species of Lemur employed was the Ring-tailed Lemur of Madagascar ( X. catta ) except in two experiments where the Black Lemur ( L. macaco ) was used .
The results obtained in both species were practically identical .
* British Association Reports , 1904 , p. 760 .
t ' Journ. f. Psychologie u. Neurologie , ' vol. 6 , p. 272 , 1906 .
f " Ein Rindenreizungsversuch an einem Halbaffen , " ' Monatsschrift f. Psychiatric u. Neurologie , ' 1906 .
S A full description of the histology of the cerebral cortex of the Lemur will be published later by one of us ( F. W. M ) in conjunction with Miss Kelley .
In the present paper only the motor area will be considered .
Localisation of Function in the Lemur s Brain .
13 Stimulation Experiments .
These were five in number .
In all eases the anaesthetic employed was ether , and anaesthesia was maintained until the animal was killed at the conclusion of the experiment by an overdose of chloroform .
The brain was exposed in the usual way , care , of course , being exercised not to injure its surface , nor to wound any large vessels .
Its surface was explored by the usual twTo-point platinum electrodes connected to the secondary coil of a du Bois Beymond 's inductorium .
The primary circuit was arranged for faradisation and included one cell .
The approximation of the secondary to the primary coil was such that the current as tested by the tongue of the operator could be felt as a little more than a faint tickling .
In some experiments Sherrington 's unipolar method* was used .
Professor Sherrington was good enough to furnish us with one of his own electrodes for the purpose .
The results obtained by this method were identical with those obtained by the two-point electrodes .
It did not appear to us so easy to evoke movements by the single electrode , probably because the number of cortical cells excited is smaller than when two are used .
The double-point electrodes , moreover , possess the advantage of being so readily tested in relation to strength of current by application to the operator 's tongue .
Short protocols of the five experiments performed are as follows :\#151 ; Lemur 1 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; Right hemisphere exposed in frontal and central regions , and explored with single-point and double-point electrodes .
Resulting movements noted .
Lemur 2 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; Experiment on Lemur 1 repeated , and some details of map made at the first experiment filled in and corrected .
At the conclusion of this , the posterior part of the hemisphere was exposed , and its posterior pole excited ; no definite eye or other movements were thereby elicited .
Lemur 3 .
Lemur macaco.\#151 ; The same experiment repeated ; in this case the excitable area did not extend quite so far posteriorly as in previous experiments .
Lemur 5 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; Stimulation of the occipital region , even with stronger currents than those usually employed , produced no effects , although stimulation of the anterior eye centres produced eye and head movements as in previous experiments .
The occipital region on both sides was investigated .
Lemur 6 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; Confirmatory experiment , the special object of which was to determine the posterior limit of the excitable area .
No movements were evoked by stimulation of occipital regions , although these were better exposed than in previous experiments and explored on all surfaces .
General Results of Stimulation Experiments .
The convolutional pattern of the brain , as will be seen by looking at the accompanying figure ( Plate 2 , fig. 1 ) , is a simple one .
* As described in a paper by Frohlich and Sherrington , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 28 , p. 14 , 1902 .
Drs. F. W. Mott and W. D. Halliburton .
[ Nov. 14 , The diagram represents the cerebrum as seen from above .
The fissure of Sylvius is easily recognisable ; beneath this is a well-marked parallel fissure , and above it is the sulcus known as the lateral fissure .
In the frontal region the best marked fissure is the sulcus rectus .
On the mesial surface of the hemisphere ( not shown in the diagram ) the intercalary fissure and the calcarine fissure are the most prominent sulci .
An interesting morphological point is , which of the smaller fissures in the fronto-parietal region corresponds with the central fissure ( fissure of Eolando ) of higher animals .
These are four in number , and are labelled 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 in the diagram .
It will be noticed that these differ in length , and to some extent in position in the two hemispheres ; the drawing of the right hemisphere , however , more accurately represents their average size than the left .
Fissure 4 is too far forward , and fissure 3 is too far back for the Eolai^dic fissure ; and our experiments have given us no certain answer as to whether fissure 1 or 2 is the fissure of Eolando , for the excitable area extends behind both .
Sherrington and Grlinbaum have shown that , in the higher apes , the excitable cortex does not extend behind the Eolandic fissure .
In one experiment we have performed on one of the lower apes ( we have found by the unipolar method the same to hold .
So far as physiological enquiry can give any reply to morphological homologies , we feel inclined to regard fissure 2 rather than fissure 1 as the representative of the central sulcus , since behind it movements are evoked with greater difficulty than in front of it .
The precise posterior boundary of the excitable cortex is very difficult to determine with accuracy , and is variable in different animals .
Our diagram ( Plate 2 , fig. 1 ) represents the extreme posterior boundary , but in one or two instances it was somewhat more anterior .
The cause of the greater difficulty of evoking movements here becomes clear on histological examination ; the large motor cells become more scattered as one passes backwards .
We obtained the most energetic movements from this posterior region by placing the electrodes 3 mm. apart , and applying them in a longitudinal direction .
Very marked results ( extension of arm and fingers ) were in this way obtained from the oval area so marked in the figure .
This may be explained on the hypothesis that the series of psychomotor cells presiding over this particular movement are arranged in a longitudinal direction , so that when the electrodes are applied in the manner stated the current spread over the whole of the excitable area of cortex representing the extension of arm and fingers .
The diagram represents better than any amount of verbal description the disposition of the motor centres .
The trunk and , more posteriorly , the leg areas are uppermost , and extend on to the mesial surface as far as the inter1907 .
] Localisation of Function the Brain .
calary fissure .
Below this and in front are the various head and face areas .
The areas controlling the upper limb are posterior to , and somewhat higher than these .
The excitation experiments show that , as in the primates , there exist in the Lemur three areas related to lower limb , upper limb , and head region respectively , from above downwards , in inverse order therefore to the spinal arrangement .
Moreover , they substantiate and accord with the ablation experiments , which will be described later .
The large size of the hand and finger area is not remarkable in view of the habits of the Lemur .
It does not pick up its food with the hands in the same way in which a monkey does , but as a rule uses the hands to support the morsel which is picked up by the mouth .
The hand movements are , however , undoubtedly more highly developed than in quadrupeds , and come chiefly into play in climbing .
There is a well-formed and opposable thumb , which must be extremely useful in the arboreal life of the animal .
We were unable to discover any special thumb area in the cortex .
In the area marked " upper limb mainly shoulder , " the movements which occur spread to the lower part of the limb and the digits on keeping up the usual weak stimulation , or by the use of a somewhat stronger current ; the resulting movement is a primary one of progression .
The same is true for the lower limb , especially in those centres which , in the first instance , control movements of its upper segment .
This spreading does not occur to any noticeable degree in the head , face , eye and ear movements .
This , again , is explicable on histological examination , for the Betz cells in this region are much smaller than in the limb areas , and so do not possess so many connections with other cells .
The difference is so marked that we have considered it worth while to contrast , in Plate 4 , the two types of motor cortex .
It will be noticed in Plate 2 ( fig. 1 ) that the head , face , and tongue area passes on to the outer side of the sulcus rectus .
The extent to which this occurs probably varies in different animals , but in those subjected to microscopic study the Betz cells did not extend beyond the outer lip of the sulcus .
It is probable that this is a more trustworthy guide than stimulation , for in the latter method it is often difficult to entirely eliminate spread of current .
In the large area marked " Pricking of ear " on the outer side of the anterior end of the lateral fissure , and which is also characterised by Betz cells of the small type , the shaded area near the Sylvian fissure was in some experiments the part , stimulation of which elicited the most marked movements ; this is quite intelligible because in this part one is approaching the Drs. F. W. Mott and W. D. Halliburton .
[ Nov. 14 , auditory centre , which analogy would teach us to place on the opposite side of the Sylvian fissure .
This , however , did ' not obtain in all cases , and in one experiment the area passed upwards so as to slightly overlap the lateral fissure .
As already noted in the protocols , repeated attempts to evoke eye movements from the occipital pole led to entirely negative results .
It is quite certain that this region is , as in other animals , the visual area , for histological examination of this part of the brain shows it to possess a well-marked line of Gennari , and the other structural features of the visual cortex .
It is quite possible that if we had been able to stimulate in the depth of the calcarine fissure , where the solitary cells of Meynert are more abundant , we might have obtained eye movements .
The Histology of the Excitable Area .
It is a comparatively easy matter to map out the area containing the large Betz cells ; moreover , although , as in the primates , the region of cortex behind the motor area contains large pyramidal cells with Nissl granules , yet this can be differentiated from the motor area proper by the existence of a granular layer , a sure sign of sensory function .
Fig. 1 , Plate 4 , shows the type of cortex with the giant Betz cells ; fig. 2 , on the same plate , shows the type of cortex with the smaller Betz cells .
The accompanying drawings in the text indicate the extent and boundaries of these two types , the size of the Betz cells being roughly shown by the size of the dots .
Diagrams A , B , and C are drawings of the outer and mesial surfaces of one hemisphere ( A and C ) , and a drawing of the cerebrum as seen from above ( B ) .
The dotted area is the portion characterised by the possession of Betz cells , the size of which is roughly indicated by the size of the dots .
The first type of cortex ( with large Betz cells ) covers that part of the outer and mesial surface which lies between the posterior end of the sulcus rectus , the anterior end of the sulcus lateralis , and the intercalary sulcus .
It is continued further forward within the sulcus rectus than can be indicated 1907 .
] Localisation of Function in the Lemur s Brain .
on surface diagrams .
Anteriorly and posteriorly it gradually merges into the types of cortex which are respectively found in frontal and post-central regions .
The second type of cortex ( with smaller Betz cells ) covers the area which lies between the extremities of the sulcus rectus and sulcus lateralis , and extends downwards as far as the superior wTall of the Sylvian fissure .
Superiorly it merges into the first type of motor cortex ; anteriorly into an area intermediate to this type and the type of the frontal cortex proper ; and posteriorly into one intermediate to this type and the temporal and post-central types .
Further histological details of these two types are as follow :\#151 ; First type of motor cortex .
( Plate 4 , fig. A).\#151 ; The cortex is about 2 mm. deep ; the depth of the molecular layer is 0*17 mm. , that of the pyramidal layer and granules about 0*9 mm. ; that of the pallid zone in which the Betz cells lie about 0*2 mm. ; and that of the polymorph layer about 0*7 mm. The pyramidal cells are larger and have more processes than in other parts of the cortex ( those of the post-central and temporal types most nearly approaching them in form ) .
They are somewhat irregularly arranged , owing , perhaps , to the presence of the processes of the Betz cells .
Granules are scattered in fair numbers at the bottom of the pyramidal layer , but they do not form a distinct layer .
The infra-granular pyramids are the most typical feature of this area .
They are , for the most part , well-formed giant pyramids ( Betz cells ) , containing Nissl bodies and having several branched processes .
They frequently measure as much as 60 / x by 25 / * , and are sometimes larger .
This line of cells occupies a pallid zone in which only a few other cells are scattered , these being smaller Betz-like cells , faintly stained pyramidal cells , and a few granules .
Some of the large Betz cells closely resemble the typical giant Betz cells of the cortex of the higher apes , but many are more pyramidal in shape .
The tendency to arrangement in nests , which has been described in the human cortex , is not general , though it can sometimes be seen .
The largest Betz cells are found immediately before and behind the small fissure ( No. 1 in Plate 2 , fig. 1 ) , which lies in the middle of this area , and between it and the intercalary sulcus .
Second type of motor cortex ( Plate 4 , fig. 2).\#151 ; The pyramidal cells are smaller than in the first type .
A line of darkly staining stellate cells is scattered above or among the granules , and the granules form a fairly well marked line .
The cells which correspond in position to the Betz cells in the first type of motor cortex are not conspicuous either in size , shape , or number .
But a somewhat scattered line of cells can be seen , measuring about 25/ x to 35/ x by 15/ x , which are Betz-like in shape , having many branched processes staining more deeply than the other cells and possessing Nissl granules .
The results of excitation and ablation of this area support the inference that this area is motor in function , although it differs considerably from the typical giganto-pyramidal motor cortex in the characteristics mentioned above .
The definite layer of granules would suggest that this cortex is sensori-motor in function like the primary visual cortex o ] the calcarine region .
This is best marked in the region from which ear movements were elicited .
Brodmann* has also mapped out the distribution of the giant pyramids in the Lemur 's brain , and his results correspond fairly closely with ours .
He points out that the little dimple ( our sulcus 1 in Plate 2 , fig. 1 ) is inconstant in position , and does not agree with * Loc .
cit. Drs. F. W. Mott and W. D. Halliburton .
[ Nov. 14 , Ziehen , that it is homologous with the sulcus centralis of the primates , for the area giganto-pyramidalis extends behind it .
In support of this argument he has also examined the brains of two monkeys , Periodictus potto and coronatus .
The former has a well-marked central sulcus , and this is the caudal boundary of the area giganto-pyramidalis , as well as of the excitable area .
In Propithecus , the central sulcus is represented by a small dimple only , very like what we have labelled sulcus 1 in the Lemur .
In Propithecus , however , it forms the caudal boundary to the excitable area , and to the area giganto-pyramidalis .
He therefore argues that in this monkey it is the true homo-logue of the central fissure , and that the apparently similar dimple in the Lemur 's brain cannot be the same , since it lies within the excitable area and the area of large Betz cells .
Max Volsch's* work was apparently undertaken to prove the correctness of Professor Ziehen 's view .
He concludes that the general arrangement of the motor centres appears to agree with that of the primates , and that they are situated in front of the small sulcus we are discussing , and which he therefore regards as the representative of the central fissure .
He , however , wisely remarks that the results of only one experiment cannot lead to far-reaching conclusions .
Flatau and Jacobsohnf regard the anterior end of the lateral fissure as homologous with the central fissure , and look upon the little sulcus ( 1 ) as a rudimentary pre-central sulcus .
Extirpation Experiments .
The extirpation experiments were four in number .
The operations were performed under ether anaesthesia , and with strict antiseptic precautions .
Healing took place by the first intention in all cases ; the paralysis exhibited after the operation was not pronounced in any experiment , and soon passed off ; this transitory nature of the paralysis has been frequently noticed before , especially in animals low in the scale .
The animals were finally killed by chloroform about a fortnight after the operation , and the parts which were to be subjected to microscopic study were then placed in suitable preservative fluids .
The following are short protocols of the four experiments performed :\#151 ; Lemur 4 .
Lemur macaco.\#151 ; The motor area was removed as completely as possible on the right side , except that the part below the sulcus rectus and lateral fissure , which governs mainly head , eye , and ear movement , was left intact .
Immediately after the operation there was conjugate deviation of head and eyes to the right , and the left pupil was rather larger than the light .
These effects were transitory .
The paralysis of the left limbs had passed off to a great extent two days later ; the fingers and toes on this side were , however , not so well used in climbing as those on the right side .
The animal was killed by chloroform 14 days after the operation , by which time it was difficult to recognise any paralysis .
The grip of the left hand wras not noticeably weaker than that of the right .
Lemur 7 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; A large amount of the motor area was removed on the right * Loc .
cit. t ' Handbuch der Anatomie u. Yergl .
Anat .
des Zentral-Nervensystems der Saugethiere , ' 1899 .
1907 .
] Localisation of Function in the Lemurs Brain .
side .
The extirpated portion was principally the area for the upper limb .
Paralysis of the opposite side was marked immediately after the operation , but eventually passed off in the way described in the experiment on Lemur 4 .
The animal was killed 14 days after the operation .
Lemur 8 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; The leg area was removed on the right side .
A good deal of hemorrhage occurred during the operation from the longitudinal sinus , a large branch of which was injured and had to be tied .
The animal , nevertheless , made a good recovery , and paralysis of the leg had largely disappeared by the time the animal was killed , 14 days later .
Lemur 9 .
Lemur catta.\#151 ; Here the operation was limited to removal of the excitable ( mainly ear , eye , and face region ) area on the outer side of the lateral sulcus and sulcus rectus in the right hemisphere .
No paralysis was noticeable ; indeed , after recovery from the anaesthetic , the animal was climbing about the room , and eating fruit heartily within an hour of the operation .
It was killed 12 days later .
It will be noticed that the last three operations form a series in which the arm area , the leg area , and the head and face area ( characterised by the small Betz cells ) were respectively removed .
We present , in the accompanying plates , diagrams of the degeneration tracts , selecting , of course , only a few important regions from the large number of sections which were made .
It will be seen that , although the lesions were not absolutely limited to arm , leg , and face areas respectively , yet from our knowledge , derived from stimulation , we were able fairly accurately to perform the operations we have indicated .
In each case the large drawings which come first are those of the brain , drawn on a somewhat smaller scale than the others .
This shows the position of the lesion , and also the degenerated fibres ( indicated by black dots and lines ) , passing in three directions : ( 1 ) to the internal capsule ; ( 2 ) to the opposite hemisphere by the corpus callosum ; and ( 3 ) to neighbouring convolutions by association fibres .
The smaller drawings show the degenerated tracts in lower portions of the central nervous system .
Histological Examination .
The brains and spinal cords were placed in Muller 's fluid for three weeks ; appropriate slices 3 to 4 mm. in thickness were then placed in Marclii 's fluid for 14 days , the fluid being changed several times .
After imbedding in celloidin , sections were then prepared .
The Resulting Degeneration.\#151 ; In all cases there was : ( 1 ) A heavy degeneration of the fibres of the internal capsule on the side of the lesion , which could be traced to the crusta of the pedunculus cerebri .
( 2 ) A degeneration much less marked\#151 ; with the degenerated fibres not so coarse\#151 ; of the corpus callosum ; most of these enter the radiating fibres of the opposite hemisphere , and pass especially to that portion which corresponds to the region of VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B. M Drs. F. W. Mott and W. D. Halliburton .
[ Nov. 14 , ablation ; some few may pass into the internal capsule ( vide figs. 1 and 2 , Plate 3 ) .
The degenerated myelin , in the form of black dots and rods , cannot be followed farther than the deeper layers of the opposite cortex .
Apparently these fibres either end in the polymorph layer or the inner line of Baillarger , where the large psychomotor cells are situated ( vide fig. 2 , Plate 3 ) .
( 3 ) A large number of coarse and fine degenerated association fibres pass from the lesion to the adjacent uninjured motor cortex ; some run horizontally into the inter-radial association fibres , the majority , however , enter the radiating fibres .
We were uncertain whether degenerated association fibres pass to remote regions of the cortex , but some certainly pass to the post-central and temporal regions ; there was no degeneration in the prefrontal , hippocampal , or occipital regions .
( 4 ) The basal ganglia , especially the nucleus caudatus , exhibited great numbers of scattered fine black dots ; it is not improbable that this may be accounted for by degenerated collaterals given off by the degenerated efferent fibres contained in the internal capsule .
The degeneration in the lower portions of the central nervous system may be most conveniently described by taking separately the individual cases .
In Lemur 9 ( Plate 3 , figs. 1 to 8 ) the lesion involved the head and face region .
The degenerated peduncular fibres were traced into the crusta of the mid-brain ( fig. 3 ) ; they are most numerous in its outer and inner fourth , and least numerous in the middle two fourths .
In Lemurs 7 and 8 , where limb areas were removed , this relationship was reversed .
In Lemur 9 , as might be expected , degenerated fibres can be seen leaving the pyramidal bundles in the pons , and crossing the median raphe , to arrive at the various motor nuclei of the pons , e.g. , the facial and fifth .
This decussation of degenerated fibres can be followed all the way down the pons and medulla .
Only a few degenerated fibres exist in the crossed pyramidal tract of the spinal cord in the upper cervical region .
( See figs. 3 to 7 , Plate 3 .
) These fibres have entirely disappeared in the cervical enlargement ( fig. 8 ) .
In Lemur 7 ( Plate 2 , figs. 2 to 8 ) , the lesion involved mainly the region of the forelimb , and we observe a heavy scattered degeneration in the pyramidal system of fibres in the pons and medulla ; these fibres do not begin to decussate until the mid-portion of the medulla is reached , that is , they decussate at a much lower level than in Lemur 9 , and at a higher level than in Lemur 8 .
There are no degenerated fibres in the lumbo-sacral region .
( Fig. 8 .
) In Lemur 8 ( Plate 3 , figs. 9 to 16 ) the lesion has involved a part of the arm area and the whole of the area of the trunk and lower limb , except that lying on the mesial surface of the hemisphere ; we observe the heavy pontine and medullary degeneration , but the fibres do not begin to decussate until 1907 .
] Localisation of Function the Lemur 's Brain .
a lower level in the medulla is reached than in Lemur 7 , and they can he followed all the way down the cord to the lumbo-sacral region , as shown in figs. 14 , 15 , and 16 .
There is , indeed , almost as heavy a degeneration in the crossed pyramidal tracts of the cervical region ( fig. 14 ) as in the pons and medulla .
Moreover , the degenerated fibres have not left the crossed pyramidal tract in the mid-dorsal region , for there are nearly as many degenerated fibres seen in the sixth dorsal segment ( fig. 15 ) as in the eighth cervical ( fig. 14 ) .
Most of the degenerated fibres can be seen leaving the pyramidal tract in the lumbo-sacral region ; when fig. 16 ( section at the fifth lumbar level ) is compared with fig. 15 ( section at the sixth dorsal level ) , a great diminution in the number of degenerated fibres is seen .
We have not presented any diagrams of our examination of the central nervous system in the case of Lemur 4 .
It was thoroughly examined , and the results were confirmatory of those found in the other cases .
Lemur 4 belonged to a different species from the other three , but this makes no difference to the course of the degeneration .
In this case , also , the lesion was more extensive , including both arm and leg cortical areas , so the degeneration was more extensive , and showed practically a combination of the results noted in Lemurs 7 and 8 .
In no case were we able to follow degenerated fibres to the anterior horn ; in some sections they could be seen lying as small compact bundles within the base of the posterior horn .
As in the lower apes , there is no direct pyramidal tract in the spinal cord of the Lemur , although it may be mentioned that one finds generally a few ( homo-lateral ) degenerated fibres in the crossed pyramidal tract of the same side as the lesion .
Summary .
1 .
The brain of the Lemur has a simple convolutional pattern , and the fissures are few and for the most part shallow .
2 .
The motor areas are limited to the central- region of the cortex , and details of the localisation by the method of stimulation are given in Plate 2 ( tig .
1 ) .
3 .
Extirpation of the excitable areas is followed by transitory paralysis of the corresponding regions on the opposite side of the body , and by degeneration of the tracts which pass to the bulbar or spinal grey matter which controls these movements .
Degeneration also occurs in commisural ( callosal ) and association tracts in the cerebrum .
4 .
The motor areas are characterised histologically by the presence of Betz cells .
Localisation by histological study is therefore possible , and the close Drs. F. W. Mott and W. D. Halliburton .
[ Nov. 14 , correspondence of the results so obtained with those obtained experimentally is well seen by comparing together the figures in the text with Plate 2 ( fig- I)5 .
There are , however , two types of motor cortex in the Lemur 's brain , and these are shown side by side in Plate 4 .
The large type of Betz cell is found in the greater part of the motor cortex , particularly where limb and body movements are represented .
The smaller type of Betz cell is found in the area governing face , tongue , ear , and eye movements , and in this excitable region there is a layer of granules ; it is therefore probably sensorimotor .
6 .
Although the investigation relates in the main to motor representation , histological examination of the occipital ( and especially calcarine ) region shows it to possess the structural characters of the visual cortex in other animals .
That no eye movements could be elicited by faradic stimulation of this region is probably due to the difficulty of the experiment , as explained in the text .
The expenses of this research have been in part defrayed from grants made to us by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society , and by the Science Committee of the British Medical Association .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATES .
Plate 2 .
Fig. 1.\#151 ; This is a map of the Lemur 's cerebrum from above .
The names of the principal sulci , and the position of the subdivisions of the motor area , as ascertained by the stimulation method , are shown on the right hemisphere .
The homologies of the small sulci , marked ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , are discussed in the text .
Figs. 2\#151 ; 8.\#151 ; These show a series of drawings made from the central nervous system of Lemur 7 , in which the upper limb area was removed .
The course of degeneration is indicated by black lines and dots .
Fig. 2 is a section of the injured right hemisphere .
The position of the lesion is indicated by a dotted line , and degenerated fibres are seen passing in three directions , namely , by the corpus callosum to the opposite side , by association tracts to adjacent convolutions , and by the internal capsule to the cerebral peduncle .
Figs. 3 , 4 , 5 , and 6 are sections at various levels of the pons and bulb .
Decussation of degenerated fibres begins at a lower level than in the case of Lemur 9 ( in which the head area was removed , Plate 3 , figs. 1\#151 ; 8 ) , and at a higher level than in the case of Lemur 8 ( Plate 3 , figs. 9\#151 ; 16 ) , in which the leg area was removed .
Fig. 7 is a drawing through the thoracic region of the spinal cord ; a few degenerated fibres are still seen in the crossed pyramidal tract , but these have entirely disappeared in the lumbar region ( fig. 8 ) .
Mott and Halliburton .
Roy .
Soc. ProcB .
vol. 80 , Plate 2 .
Lemur 7 .
Mott and Halliburton .
Roy .
Soc. Pvoc .
, vol. 80 , Plate 3 .
Lemur 8 .
Mott and Halliburton .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B. vol. 80 , Plate 4 .
* ' ,4 * 4 Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
Localisation of Function the Lemurs Brain .
Plate 3 .
Figs. 1\#151 ; 8.\#151 ; These are drawings made from the central nervous system of Lemur 9 , in which the face region was removed .
The position of the lesion is indicated by a dotted line in fig. 1 , which is a drawing of a section through the injured ( right ) hemisphere .
The preparations were made by the Marchi method , and degeneration is indicated by black lines and dots .
Fig. 1 shows degeneration passing by the corpus callosum to the opposite hemisphere , by association tracts to adjacent convolutions , and by the internal capsule to the cerebral peduncle .
Fig. 2 is a drawing of a section through the left ( uninjured ) hemisphere , and shows the degenerated fibres , reaching the grey matter , which have crossed by the corpus callosum .
Some few degenerated fibres are seen in the internal capsule .
Fig. 3 is the mid-brain .
Degeneration is seen in the crusta of the peduncle , especially in its outer and inner fourths .
Fig. 4 shows the degenerated fibres in the pyramidal tract of the pons .
Figs. 5 and 6 show them in the pyramidal tract of the bulb .
In figs. 4 , 5 , and 6 many of the degenerated fibres are seen decussating to reach the motor nuclei of cranial nerves .
Fig. 7 , through the upper cervical region of the spinal cord , shows a few degenerated fibres in the crossed pyramidal tract of the opposite side .
Fig. 8 , through the cervical enlargement , shows that at this level all degenerated fibres have disappeared .
Figs. 9\#151 ; 16.\#151 ; A similar series of drawings made from the central nervous system of Lemur 8 , in which a large portion of the lower limb area was removed .
Fig. 9 is a section through the injured ( right ) hemisphere .
Figs. 10 , 11 , 12 , and 13 show the degenerated fibres in the pyramidal tract at various levels in pons and bulb .
Decussation of these does not begin until a lower level is reached than in the case of Lemur 7 ( removal of arm area , see Plate 2 ) .
Figs. 14 , 15 , and 16 are drawings of the spinal cord\#151 ; 14 at the level of the 8th cervical and 15 at the level of the 6th dorsal segment .
In fig. 15 the degenerated fibres are nearly as numerous as in fig. 14 , and also nearly as numerous as in the pyramidal tract of the bulb .
It is not until the lumbar region is reached that they begin to diminish ( fig. 16 , taken at 5th lumbar level ) .
Plate 4 .
This shows the two types of motor cortex described in the text .
Fig. 1 is the first type of motor cortex , characterised by giant pyramids ( Betz cells ) , and found in the limb and trunk areas .
Fig. 2 is the second type of motor cortex with smaller Betz cells , found in the face , ear , and eye regions .
Higher power views of typical cells from each layer are placed by the side of the low power drawings .
Methylene blue preparations .
VOL. LXXX.\#151 ; B. N

