I. " On the Synthesis of Tribasic Acids .
" ( Preliminary Notice .
) By MAXWELL SIMPSON , M.B. , F.R.S. Received July 3 , 1862 .
I have already shown * that the cyanides of the diatomic radicals ( at least those which form glycols ) yield bibasic acids when treated with potash , which contain four equivalents of carbon more than the radicals from which they are derived .
Analogy would lead us to expect that the cyanides of the triatomic radicals would yield with the same reagent tribasic acids , containing six equivalents of carbon more than the original radicals .
Thus , as we obtain in this way from cyanide of ethylene ( to take a particular case ) a bibasic acid of the composition C , H6 08 ( succinic acid ) , so from the tercyanide of allyle ( C6 Ha Cy3 ) , if the analogy holds good , one ought to get a tribasic acid having the composition C2 HI8 012:04C 11Cy+2( } 0)+4 0= 84 }0 O+2NH , C HB CyS+3 ( }0 )+6HO=12 OK 0 +3 NHa The following experiments were performed with the view of determining this point .
One equivalent of terbromide of allyle ( CB H1 Br3 ) and three equivalents of pure cyanide of potassium were made to react upon each other , by exposing them , with the addition of a considerable quantity of alcohol , to the temperature of a water-bath in well-corked sodawater bottles .
After 16 hours ' heating , I found that almost all the cyanide of potassium had been converted into bromide .
I then separated the alcohol , which I assume contained impure tercyanide of allyle in solution , and introduced it together with a quantity of solid potash into a large balloon .
To this a reversed Liebig 's condenser was attached , and heat applied by means of a water-bath , which occasioned the evolution of a large quantity of ammoniacal gas .
As soon as the disengagement of this gas had ceased , the alcohlol was distilled off , and the residue cautiously treated with nitric acid in excess .
This liberates an organic acid from the potash , and at the same time partially destroys a black tarry matter which is present in large quantity .
The whole was evaporated to dryness at a low temperature , and the dry mass treated with alcohol , which dissolves the free organic acid , but not the nitrate of potash which accompanies it .
The residue obtained on evaporating the alcohol was then neutralized by ammonia , and precipitated by nitrate of silver .
Finally , the acid was separated from the silver-salt by sulphuretted hydrogen , and twice crystallized from water .
The crystals gave on analysis numbers agreeing very well with the formula C,21Hs802 .
I obtained 41 24 per cent. carbon and 4*82 hydrogen , instead of 40'91 carbon and 4'54 hydrogen .
I have also analysed the silver-salt of this acid , and obtained results establishing the formula Cg1 FT Ag3 12 ' This acid forms nearly colourless crystals , which are very soluble in water , alcohol , and ether .
They have an agreeable acid taste .
The free acid gives an abundant precipitate with acetate of lead , soluble in strong acetic acid .
The neutralized acid forms with perchloride of iron a reddish-brown precipitate , from which the acid can be partially removed by solution of ammonia .
Neither chloride of barium nor chloride of calcium affects the neutralized acid .
An abundant precipitate , however , makes its appearance on the addition of alcohol to the mixed solutions .
These reactions resemble those of succinic acid .
It is , however , readily distinguished from that acid by its behaviour when exposed to heat .
Thus it melts when exposed to the temperature of about 158 ?
Cent. , and when subjected to a higher temperature suffers decomposition .
In order to satisfy myself that the nitric acid employed in the process I have just described does not play a part in the reaction which generates the new body , as is necessary if the equation given at the commencement of this paper is correct , I have endeavoured to prepare it without the aid of that acid .
In this I have succeeded , the body formed being identical in properties and composition with that obtained by the first method .
That this acid is tribasic , we cannot well doubt , if we take into consideration the manner of its formation , and the composition of its silver-salt .
Nevertheless I will endeavour , by the examination of several salts , to obtain further evidence on this point .
I regret to say I have not yet succeeded in rendering the tercyanide of allyle sufficiently pure for analysis .
On evaporating the alcohol , in the midst of which the terbromide of allyle and cyanide of potassium have reacted , a black mass is obtained exactly like tar in colour and consistence .
This I partially purified by solution in ether .
On evaporating the ether a brown liquid is left , which is very soluble in water .
This gave , when gently heated with sodium , cyanide of sodium .
When treated with potash , it yielded an organic acid and ammoniacal gas .
With muriatic acid it gave an organic acid also , no doubt the same , and muriate of ammonia .
These three reactions , coupled with the composition of the acid formed in the second , furnish almost conclusive evidence of the generation of tercyanide of allyle by the action of terbromide of allyle on cyanide of potassium .
The relation that exists between diand tri-atomic acids is well seen when we formulate these bodies according to the carbonic acid type:2 HO , C { 2 ?
2 } 02 3 HO , C6 H5 C,2 0 , } 03 C2 Oj Succinic acid New acid ( bibasic ) .
( tribasic ) .
I propose to continue my researches on the cyanides of the diand tri-atomic radicals .

