]\gt ; in the mapping out of the fibres cting the above motor downwards , and it is suggested that the lliation by previou observers of basal centres for the functions bove- mentionod possibly to be accounted for differently in the light of thuS observations .
Finally , the results of exploring floor of the fourth excitation are described , so far as intrinsic effects were produced in\amp ; larynx .
The representation of adduction and abduction movemonb respectively was thus localised .
conclusion , the relations of the variotls parts of this central mechanism to one another discussed .
XIII .
" " Contribntions to the Molecular Theory of Induced Magnetism By J. A. EWING , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering in University College , Dundee .
Received June 18 , 1890 .
* Ewing and Low , 'Phil .
Trans 1889 , .
See also H. E. J. Bois , Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1890 .
molecular magnet were free to , the slightest magnetic force would suffice to bring the molecules into complete ] elism , and thus to producs magnetic saturatio ] ] .
He continues , " " This , however , is not the case .
The molecules do not turn with their axes parallel to the force , and this is either because each molecule is acted on by a force tending to preserve it in its direction , or because an equivalent effect is produced by the mutual action of the entire system of molecuIes .
Weber adopts the former of these suppositions as the simplest * Weber supposes a ecting force to act in the inaI direction of the molecule 's axis which contiuues to act as a restoring force in that direction after the molecule is disturbed .
This assumed constraint is quite arbitrary ; moreover , if it were the only constraint , there would be no residual magnetism when the force was withdrawn .
Accordingly , Maxwell modifies Weber 's theory by introducing the further assumption that when the angle of dellection exceeds a ce1bin Jimit the molecule begins to take permatlent set .
The development of this , however , does not agree well with the facts .
The native which is offered in the sentence I have quoted from well was not followed up by him , and seems to have been very generally overlooked , Ilotwithstanding its obvious freedom from arbitrary assumption .
Several writers , notably Wiedemann and IIughes , have recognised the inter-molecular magnetic forces by Sugge8ting that the molecllles , when unacted on by any magnetising outside , may form closed rings , or , " " so as to satisfy th .
nabural attraction by the shorbest path.\ldquo ; S But Wiedemann expostulates a frictional resistance to rotation , which will prevent arrangement from being more than oximately attained , and whioh may be more or less overcome by vibration xwell , 'Electricity and Magnetism , ' ] .
, S443 .
Wiedemann , Galvanismus , ' vol. , p. 373 .
, ' Roy .
Soc. Proc May 10 , 1883 .
1 ( loc. , ' Phil. Mag July , ISS6 , p. 52 ; 'Elektricitat , ' vol. 3 .
SS 784\mdash ; Molecular oj Induced Magnetism .
FIG. 1 .
is wanted , and the board slips into a large fiame or open sided flat box wound round the top , bottom , and two sides with a coil through which an adjustable current may be passed to expose the group to a nearly homogeneous magnetic force .
The coil is wound in a single open layer , through which a sufficiently view of the group inside is obtained .
* A liquid rheostat with a .
terminal is used to secure continuity in varying the netic forcs .
It scarcely neccssary to add that the magnetic force which is applied to the group is too weak to have any material effect on the magnetism of individual bars .
It alters .
alignment only , just as a magnetic force alters the alignment of \ldquo ; molecular magnets .
When a number of these magnets are gronped either in a ular pattern or at random , and are left after disturbance to come to rest free from external magnetic force , they of course assume a form which has no resultant magnetic moment , provided the number be great\mdash ; but it is apparent that they do not ange themselves in closed chains .
Any such ation would in general be unstable .
Mally stable configurations admit of being formed , and if tho magnets are again disturbed and left to settle he chances are much against any one configuration immediately repeating itself .
One general charactel'istic of these configurations thgt they contain lines consisting of two , three , or more magnets , member of a line being strongly controlled by its next ghbours in that line , and but little influenced by neighbours which lie off the line on either side .
Thus , if there are two magnets mply , they form ( as might bs anticipated ) a highly stable pair , thus:\mdash ; In howing the imonts , board with the nets on may , of conrse , be phoed in clear view above the the il is then made larger , or scfonger curent uaed .
VOL. XLVuI .
but it is by no means uncommon to find a line broken into two or more sections , thus\mdash ; Seven magnets grouped so that the centres of six form a regular hexagon , with one in the middle , have a great variety of possible stable configurations , of which these are examples:\mdash ; residual netism .
To take an instance , suppose we have a group ' initially as in fig. 4 , and apply a magnetic force , , in the direction sketched , the first stage deflects all the molecular FIG. 4 .
; Molecular Theory of Induced Magnetism .
349 nffi slightly , without making any of them bscome unstable ; the nd stage brings the molecules into the general direction in fig. 5 or rather that is the direction they sum when FIG. 5 .
is emoved , and the magnetism contributed by the group is then the sum of their moments resolved along .
When is the components along are slightly greater , for the molecules are then deElected ough a small angle towards the line of S. Let be further increased\mdash ; wo now have the third fig. 3 ) , whioh consists in the closer approach to saturation that is ca.uSed by the molecules being more nearly pulled into exact line th '6 ( fig. 6 ) .
Whether there will be instability during the otion of them from the lines of fig. 5 will depend on the closeof the poles , and on the inclination of the lines of fig. 5 to the on of ( see below ) .
In some groups , saturation will be complete with a finite value of ; in others , it will only be closely approXlmated to .
In magnetising any actual specimen of iron , we have ' of course , to deal with a multitude of groups the lines to ch lie at very various inclinations to .
If we remove at any point in stage , we find very little , if any , more Prof. J. A. Ewing .
Contributions to the FIG. 6 .
residual magnetiam than was found at the eIrd of stage ( b ) .
The ratio of residual to induced magnetism is a maximum about the end of stage ( b ) , and diminishes as stage ( c ) proceeds .
This , again , agrees completely with the observed facts .
There is some hysteresis during the lemoval ( whether partial ) and re-application of magnetic force , because ( provided have enough groups to deal with ) there will be some elements which pass to and fro through a condition of during the removal and re-application of the force .
For inclinations of the line the movements are not reversible .
Suppose , next , that having applied and removed a strong leaving strong residual polarity , we begin slowly to reverse first , the effects are slight ; presently , however , instability and , as the force is inoreassd within a narrow range , we find * molecules all upset .
This is followed by a stage of nearly deflection as saturation is approached .
Thus , the well-known haracteristics of cyclic processes are all reproduced in tho ( see fig. 8 below ) .
Again , a small repsated cyclic change of superposed oonstant value of produccs small changes of resultant which are reversible if the change of is small .
This , The chief facts of permeability and retentiveness , and hysteresis generally , are therefore at once explicable by supposing that Weber 's molecular magnets are constrained by no other forces than those due to their own mutual magnetic attractions and repulsions .
No arbi trary constraining forces are required .
In the model the centres of rotation are fixed ; in regard to the actual solid we may make an equivalent supposition , namely that the distances between the molecular centres do not change ( except in so far as they may be changed by strain ) .
Hysteresis , then , is not the result of any quasi-frictional resistance to molecular rotations ; it occurs whenever a molecule turns from one stable position of rest to another through an unstable condition .
When it is forced to return it again passes through a condition of instability .
This process , considered mechanically , is not reversible ; theforces are different for the same displacement going and coming , and there is dissipation of energy .
In the model the energy thus expended sets the little bars , and their swings take some time to suAside .
In the actual solid the energy which the molecular magnet loses as it swings through unstable positions ates eddy currents in surrounding matter .
Let the magnets of the model be furnished with air-vanes to damp their swings , and the correspondence is complete .
A regular group of elementary , especially when furnished with air-vanes , gives a good illnstration of what has been called magnehc viscosity .
When the imposed force reaches a critical value one of the outer membsrs of the group becomes unstable , and swings slowly round ; its next neighbours , finding their stability weakened , follow suit , and the disturbance spreads through the group in a way emineutly suggestive of those phenomena of time-lag magnetisation which I have described in a former paper .
The model shows equally well other magnetic phenomena which presumably depend on the inertia of the molecules , such as the fact that a given force causes more magnetic induction when suddenly applied than when gradually applied , and leaves less residual magnetism when suddenly removed than when gradually removed .
The well known effects of mechanical vibration in augmenting netic susceptibility and reducing retentiveness are readily explicable when we consider that vibration will cause periodic changes in th distances between molecular centres .
This has not only a direct in m\amp ; ing molscular magnets respond more easily to 'Phil .
Mag March , 1887 .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc June , 1889 .
The effects of temperature which are common to the three metals may be stated thus : any moderate magnetising forco applied not strong enough to produce anything like an approach to magnetic saturation , and let the temperature be raised .
Then tb permeability increases until the temperature reaches a certain critical value , at which , almost suddenly , there is an almost disappearance of magnetic equality .
As regards the first efleot , it is clear that an increase of permeability is to be expected from theory ; expansion with rise of temperature involves a ation of the molecular centres , and therefore a reduction of stability .
AB regards the almost sudden loss of susceptibility which at a high temperature , it may do no harm to hazard a latl]er wild jecture .
We may suppose the molecular magnets to be swin more or less , the violence of the swings increasing as the temperature rises , until finally it develops into rotation .
Should this happen , all trace of polarity would of course disappear .
The conjecture that the molecular magnets oscillate more and more as the temperuture rises , is at least supported by the fact ( carefully .
vestigated b Hopkinson*in iron and nickel ; data for cobalt also have lately been supplied by du Bois that under strong netic forces rise of temperature reduces magnetism ; for with strong forces the cular magnets are already ranged so that their mean direction is nerrly parallel to ; hence the earlier effect of heat ( to diminish stabilityand facilitate alignment ) does not tell , and the increased swinging simply results in reducing the mean value for each molecule of its moInent resolved parallel the magnetising force .
Before referring to effects of stres we may consider shortly tho stability of a pair or line of magnets , treating each as a pair of polu subject to the law of inverse squares .
Take first a single pair of equal magnets with centres at and .
The poles would lie in the line , but for the imposed force , which produces a defleo .
ion CC'P ' or bet be the angle which makes with the line of centres , pole strength , and the half length of the magnetic axis of magnet .
The deflecting moment is , and the restoring moment is ' * Phil. Trans. , ' 1889 , , p. 443 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc June , 1888 .
: , , 'Phil .
Mag April , 1890 .
Molecular Theory of Induced FIG. 7 .
CN being drawn normal to PP ' .
The restoring moment at first increases with , but passes a maximum at a value of which depends on the relation of to the distance between the centres .
condition of equilibrium is ; and as and are increased the equilibrium becomes neutral , that is to , the condition of instability is reached , when These wo equations serve to determine th ' , value of and of af which instability occurs .
If we have to deal with a long line of magnets instead of a single pair , we Lave to write instead of the restoring moment .
A considerable amount of stable deflection is possible when the tance betweon the poles is not small compared with .
When direchon of is not much inclined to ( that is , when has a value aPproaching there is no instability .
In rows having variotls inclinations to , the first to become unstable as is increased wiil be that for which is equal to which is satisfied when being the inclination of to the line of centres .
Hence , with the same proviso not equal to or to , and small compared with ) , the value of whioh causes instability is for a single pair of magnets , and twice this quantity for the middle members of a long row .
This is , of course , least for magnets which lie normal to In the special case when instability occurs when with the single pair , or with the row .
Applied to the case of a group of rows , uniform in distance betvrn the centres , but various as regards their direction with to\amp ; these considerations show that after has reached a value suffloim to make the most susceptible members unstable , no very great increase is required to bring about instability in by far the number of the other rows .
One general effect of increasing distance between all the centres is to reduce the range of variation of within which most of the different rows become unstable the force is .essively increased .
In annealed metal , where we may expecb considerable homogeneity , as regards distance between the centres of the moleoB ] magnets , we find that practically the whoIe of the abrupt stage in process of magnetisation is included within narrow limits of ising force .
We accordingly obtain curves like AA ( fig. 8 ) .
When the metal is strained sufficiently to receive psrmanent the curves take more rounded outlines ( such as BB ) , showing susceptibility throughout , less residual magnetism , and more force .
The most natural expl of this , on the basis of the cular theory , appears to be that mechanical set produces on the a shortening of the distances between molecular centres , hence stability and more coercive force ; but this is associated with her Induced , that is , variety in the distances , hence the rounded outlines of the curves .
We know that set teuds to develop , or at least to , heterogeneity ; for instance , a bar of iron or steel pulled in th testing machine stretches irregularJy after the elastic limit is The effects of stress and quent elastic strain on magnetic quality are so c.omplex and so various in iron , nickel , and cobalt that it uld be premature to attempt any full discussion of them from of view of the leory now sketched .
Only a few general ures need be referred to at present .
Soms of these can be traced xperimentally in the model by setting the supports of the magnets upon asheet of thin india-rubber ; which may be etched or dislmitate the condibions of longitudinal or torsional strain .
Wh en pulling stress is applied , those rows of molecular nets whioh 16 more or less along the direction of the stress have their S4bility reduced by the lengthening of the lines of centl.es ; similarly , lie more or less to the stress have their stability .
The resulting effect the general susceptibility of the depend on which of these conflicting influences prepon8 .
Let pull be applied } ) efore magnetisation begins while the still in aneutral state .
The stretching of lines B\amp ; z thermoelectric quality of iron exhibits with regard to cyclic changes of stress , discovered by Cohn , and more fully described in 'Phil .
Trans 1886 , p. 361 .
The hysteresis of molecul configuration with respect to stress has been to be remo able or reducible by vibration .
From this theoretical explanation of hysf , eresis in the effects of strsss , it at once follows that a cyclic change of stress ( provided it be not very small ) involves some dissipation of energy in a magnetic metal , whether the piece be onetised or not .
We may expect this dissipation to be most considerable under conditions which make the magnetic hysteresis large .
But it will occur even when there is no external trace of netism .
This , of course , imphes that in a cyclic process of loading and unloading , work must be spent .
There is no perfect elasticity in a netico metal , however slowly the process of straining bo per .
Under any load there is less strain during application than riug removal .
This is borne out by expcriments on the extension of iron wires ( ' Brit. Assoc. Rep 1889 , p. 502 ) .
The same action occurs to a marked degree in torsional strains .
In a twisted specimen there will be a tendency on the part of the molecular magnets to range themselves along lines agreeing more or less his the direction of maximum contraction .
Alternate twisting to opposite sides should therefore cause much ] ecular s through unstable positions , with consequent dissipation of encrgy , even in a piece which is not magnetised .
Without at present into details , it may be added that the phenomena of molecular ' accommodation ' ' studied by Wiedemann H. Tomlinson accord with the theory , and that it seems to lend itself well explain the very remarkable results which have been obtained by Nagaoka in oxperiments with nickel wire under or under a combination of pull and twist .
It also agrees wi what little is known as to the influence that previous magnetisation in one direction has upon subsequent mag1letisation in another direction .
To sum uP , I have endeavoured to show\mdash ; Phil Trans 1885 , p. 614 .
Journal of the CoUege of Science of the University of Tokio , ' vol. 2 , 1888 .
tional stability .
There is no need to suppose the existence of quasi-elastic directing force or of any quasi-frictional resistance to rotation .
( 2 .
) That the intermolecular magnetic forces are sufficient to account for all the general tics of the process of netisation , including the variations of susceptibility which occur as the magnetising force is increased .
( 3 .
) That the intermolecular netic forces are compe .
tent to account for known facts of retentiveness and coercive orce and the characteristics of cyclic magnetic processes .
( 4 .
) That magnetic hysteresis and the dissipabion of energy which hysteresis involves are due to moleculal instability resulting from intermoleculal magIJetic actions , and are not due to anything in the nature of frictional resistance to the rotation of the molecular magned .
( 5 .
) That this theory is wide enough to admit explanation the differences in magnetic quality which are shown by different sub stances or by the same substance in diiferent states .
( 6 .
) That it accounts in a general way for the known ffiects of vibration , of temperature , and of stress upon magnetic quality .
( 7 .
) That in particular it accounts for the known fact that there is hysteresis in the relation of magnetism to stress .
That it further explains why there is , in magnetic , hyste resis in quality generally with respect to stress , apart from the existence of ( 9 .
) That , in consequence , any ( not very small ) cycle of stren occurring in a magnetic metal involves dissipation of energy .
XIV .
" " On the Relation between the Magnetic Permeability of Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances By A. W. BU0KER , , F.R.S. Received May 30 , 1890 .
[ Publication deferred .
]

