]\gt ; Mr. W. Crookes .
[ June 10 , exactly with the diameter of the carbons used for the arc of maximum intensity , and of exactly half the sectional al.ea of the latter , the defect referred to would be entirely obviated , and the flashes of maximum and minimum intensity would have exactly the same duration .
As all carbons for electric arc lights are now made in moulds , I saw that such a form as shown in the accompanying fullsize sketch ( and model ) would not involve any more difficulty in manufacture than if cylindrical , while there would be less liability of fracture ring in the process of drying and baking .
Otber advantages to be obtained with fluted carbons are , 1st , a larger vertical angle of radiant light from the arc , and with a higher coefficient of intensity in consequence of the unobstructed radiance through the .
at the points of each carbon ; and , 2nd , a steadier light is obtained owing to the localising of the current at the central portion of each carbon .
The results of many experimental trials with fluted carbons 50 mm. diameter , as shown by the sketch and models submitted herewith , have entirely confirmed my expectations .
It will be observed that no crater is formed , and the point of each carbon is all that can be desired for utilising fully the maximum light of the arc .
My experiments have not been sufficient to determine accurately the additional intensity of light obtained from the arc of a pair of the fluted carbons as compared with that from the arc of a pair of cylindrical but I of opinion that the gain with fluted carbons is not less than 10 per cent. IX .
some new Elements in Gadolinite and Samarskite , detected spectroscopically By WILLIAM CROOKES , F.R.S. , V.P.C.S. Received June 9 , 1886 .
The recent discovery by my distinguished friend M. de Boisbaudran*on the existence of a new element which he calls Dysprosium makes it unadvisable on my part , as a fellow investigator in spectroscopic research , to delay any longer the announcement of some of the results I have obtained during the fractionations of the samarskite and gadolinite earths .
I will first bake the earths which give absorption-spectra when their soIutions are examined by transmitted light .
These occur chiefly the highel end , beginning wibh didymium and proceeding , through samarium , holmium , \amp ; c. , to erbium , which is o1le of the least basic .
The earths which give phosphorescent spectra chiefly occur at the lower end , but each group overlaps the other ; for instance yttria occnrs above erbia .
* ' ' Comptes rendus ( 1886 ) , p. 1003 .
New Elements in Gadohmte and Samarskite .
One of the highest of the absorption-spectrum eartbs is didymia .
The spectrum of didymium , as generally met with , is well known , and is given in my paper on " " Radiant Matter Spectroscopy : Part 2 , Samarium\ldquo ; ( par .
135 ) .
It has long been suspected that didymium is not a simple body , and in June , 1885 , Dr. Aver .
Welsbach announced that by a series of many hundred fractional crystallisations he had succeeded in splitting up didymium into two new elements , one giving leek-green salts and the other rose-red salts .
The green body he called Praseodymium and the rose-red Neodymium .
I have not found that my method of fractionation gives a decomposition similar to this ; probably didy- mium will be found to split up in more than one direction , according to the method adopted ; but by pushing the fractionations at the didymium end of the series to a considerable extent , a change gradually comes over the spectrum .
At the lower end the earth gives an absorption-spectrum such as is nsually attributed to didymium , but with no trace of some of the bands in the blue end , the one at being especially noticeable by its absence .
The intermediate earths give the old didymium spectrum , the relative inensities of some of the bands varying according to the position of the .
earth in the series , the band 443 becoming visible as the highel ' end is approached .
The highest fractions of all give the band 443 one of the most prominent in the spectrum , being accompanied by other fainter bands which are absent in the lowest didymium spectrum .
In my note-book , under date 3rd March , 1886 , after discussing the spec given by one of my earths rather lower down in the series ( fraction ) , and comparing coincidences of the lines with those given by holmia , erbia , didymia , thulia , and samaria , I remalk " " the big blue line is still unclaimed In norance that my friend M. de Boisbaudran was on the same track , and running me somewhat close , I deferred further examination of these fractions till a few months longer work had been performed on them , when I hoped to get fuller evidences of a new absorption-spectrum .
This big line in the blue , proves bo be the characteristic line of dysprosium .
This line does not occur in didymium .
The next strongest line , , is coincident with a very faint line in the old didymium , and it also falls within a broad band of samarium .
M. de Boisbaudran says that this line is not due either to didymium , erbium , or samarium ; as it follows he same variations of intensity as the other lines of dysprosium he considers it due to the same element .
The earth , which I have already mentioned as giving the broad black band of dysprosium , shows this band wider ( and therefore presumably stronger ) than in the spectrum given by M. de Boisbaudran , without the slightest trace of the band 475 , which , according to M. de Boisbaudran , should be wider and almost as dense Mr. W. [ June 10 , as the band .
It is obvious therefore that the element giving the band 475 cannot be the same as the one causing the band and if the body giving the strongest of these is called dysprosium another name must be chosen for the element which gives rise to the absorption-band 475 .
And now comes the question : What is the origin of band 475 ?
In remarks made on the band 443 I mentioned that it is accompanied by other fainter lines .
One of these occurs at 475 , and therefore I was prepared to connect these bands as being due to one and the same element ; but M. de Boisbaudran , in his description of the spectrum of dysprosium , has shown that band 475 can be obtained strong in the absence of 443 .
The bands 443 and 475 therefore are not caused either by didymium , dysprosium , or any hitherto identified element ; consequently each must be regarded as characteristic of a new body .
I now come a branch of the subject which promises to yield resuIts even more fruitful than those given by the examination of absorption-spectra : 1 refer to the spectra yielded by some of the earths when phosphorescing in vacuo .
This method has been so fully explained before the Royal Society , in my papers on " " Radiant Matter Spectroscopy that I need not repeat it .
In my Bakerian Lecture on Yttrium* I described the phosphorescent spectrum of this earth , and gave a drawing of it .
In the Samarium paper I gave a similal description and drawing of the samarium spectrum , and also described and illustrated some anomalous results obtained when yttria and samaria were mixed together .
Under the conditions described in the paper a sharp and brilliant orange line made its appearance , which at that time seemed as if it belonged to the samarium spectrum , and was only developed in greater intensity by the presence of yttria .
This explanation , however , did not satisfy me , and I called the line " " the anomalous line intending to return to it at the first opportunity .
I have since further investigated the occurrence of this line , with more than usual good fortune in the extent and importance of new facts thereby disclosed .
Systematic fractionation was carried on with the portions of the general series giving the strongest appearance of line 609 , and it soon became that the line closely followed samarium .
The * ' ' Phil. Trans ( 1883 ) , p. 891 .
Ibid. , vol. 176 ( 1885 ) , p. 691 .
In paragraph 146 , p. 713 , of the Samarium paper already quoted , speaking of this line I said , it was " " so unlike the bands usually met with in the spectra of phosphorescent earths as to suggest the explanation that some other spectrumforming body was present in the mixture 1886 .
] New Elements in ( iadohnite and Samarskite .
presence of yttria was not necessary to it out , although by deadening the brightness of the other bands it was useful , not seeming to affect the line 609 .
Several circumstances , however , tended to show that although line 609 accompanied samarium with the utmost pertinacity , it was not so integral a part of its spectrum as the other red , green , and orange lines .
For instance , the chemical as well as physical behaviour of these line-forming bodies was different .
On closely comparing the spectra of specimens of samaria from different sources , line 609 varied much in intensity , in some cases being strong and in othel'S almost absent .
The addition of yttria was found to greatly deaden the red , orange , and green lines of samarium , while yttria had little no eifect on the line 609 ; agai ] ] , a little lime entirely suppressed line while it brought out the samarium lines with increased vigour .
Finally attempts to separate line 609 from samarium and those ions of the samarskite earths in which it chiefly concentrated esulted in sufficient success to show me that , given time and an almost inexhaustible supply of materia ] , separation nob be difficult .
But what was then practically impossible to me , restricted by limited time and means , Nature has succeeded in effectingin the most perfect manner .
I been working on samarskite , and many observations had led me to think that the proportion of band-forming constituents varied slightly in the same earth from different mineraSs .
Amongst others , gadolinite showed indications of such a dffierentiation , and therefore I continued the work on this mineral .
Very few fractionations were necessary to show that the body giving line 609 was not present in the gadolinite earths , no admixtures of yttria and samaria this source giving a trace of .
It follows , therefore , that the body whose phosphorescenb spectrtlm gives line 609 occurs in samarskite , but not in gadolinite ; thus it cannot be due to samarium , a mixture of these two elements ; the only other probable alternative is that the source of this line is a new element .
Chemical ionation is very similar to the formation of a spectrum with a very wide slit and a succession of shallow prisms .
The centrn portion remains unchanged for a long time , and the only approach to purity at first will be at the two ends , while a considerable series of operations is needed to produce an appreciable change in the centre .
the later fractionations of the yttria earths another set of facts , ouly suspected , have assumed consistont form .
The spectrum bands which hitherto I had thought belonged to yttria soon began to vary in intensity among themselves , and continued tion incrcased the differences first .
It would exceed the limits of a prcliminary note were I to enter into especting the chemical and reasons which me to the definite 506 Mr. W. rooks .
[ June 10 , sions I now bring before this Society .
More than 2000 fractionabions have been performed to settle this single point .
I will content myself with stating the results .
The element hitherto called yttrium appears to be a hjghly complex molecule , capable of being dissociated into several simpler substances , each of which gives a phosphorescent spectrum of gleat simplicity , consisting for the most part of only one line .
Taking the constituents in order of approximate basicity ( the chemical analogue of refrangibility ) the lowest carthy constituent gives a violet band 456 ) , which I have reason to believe belongs to ytterbia .
Next comes a deep blue band ; then the strong citron band , which has increased in sharpness till it deserves to be called a line ; then come a close pair of greenish-blue lines mean ; then a red band , then a deep red band 647 ) , next a yellow band , then another green line ; this ( in samarskite yttria ) is followed by the orange line of which I have already spoken ; and finally , the three samarium bands remain the highest part of the series .
These for the present I do not touch , having my hands fully occupied with the more easily resolvable earths .
In the " " Comptes rendus " " for April 19th , 1886 , M. de Boisbaudran announces to the Academy that M. de Marignac , the discoverer of had selected for it the name Gadolinium .
February last I gave a short note on the earth which I described its phosphorescent specbrum ( agreeing exactly with that given by of M. de Marignac 's pleparation ) .
Referriug to my paper will be seen that is coniposed of the following band-forming bodies : , ( 564 ) , ( 597 ) , ( 609 ) , ( 619 ) , together with a little samarium .
Calling the samarium an impurity , it is thus seen that gadolinium is composed of at least four simpler bodies .
The pair of green lines and , mean 545 ) , being the Strongebt feature in its spectrum , may be taken as characteristic of gadolinium : the other lines are due to other bodies .
It is by a method of his own , differing from mine , that M. de Boisbaudran has obtained phosphorescent spectra of some of these earths .
He takes the induction spark between the surface of a strong and acid solution of the metallic chloride , and a clean platinum wire a few millimetres above it .
The platinum wire is kept negative and the solution positive ; it is then observed that in many cases a thin layer of fluorescent light is seen at the surface of the liquid .
This layer gives a spectrum of nebulous bands .
For the sake of brevity I will adopt M. de Boisbaudran 's term , and call this process the method of reversion ( the direction of the spark being reversed ) .
As this method is entirely different to the one I adopt , it is not surprising that the results also are different .
Experimenting in this way M. de Bois* ' ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 40 1886 ) , p. 236 .
1886 .
] New Elements in Gadolinite and Samarskite .
baudran has obtained , among others , two bands and , which he considers to be caused by two elements , named respectively and , and which he considers new , at all events if we except terbium , and possibly the elements of what was formerly called holmium .
His method fails to show any spectrum in solutions of yttria which by my method give the yttria bands with the greatest brilliancy ; while conversely his method shows a fluorescent spectrum in solutions of earths separated as widely as possible from .
yttria , chemically as well as spectloscopically .
My experiments on both these methods tend to the conclusion that our bands are not due to the same , although M. de Boisbaudran 's experiments have led him to the opposite conclusion .
The band of falls between the double green band of adolinium ( 549 and 541 ) , and the band of would come very near the citron line A hitherto unrecognised band in the spectrum by absorption or phosphorescence is not of itself definite proof of a new element , but if it is supported by chemical facts such as I have brought forward there is sufficient prima facie evidence that a new element is present .
Until , however , the new earths are separated in sufficient purity to enable their atomic weights to be approximately determined , and their chemical and physical properties observed , I think it is more prudent to regard them as elements on probation .
I should therefore prefer to designate them provisionally by the mean wave-length of the dominant baIld .
In this I am following the plan adopted by astrono- mers in naming the minor planets , which are known by a number encircled by a line .
If , however , for the sake of easier discussion among chemists a definite name is thought more convenient I will follow the plan frequently adopted in such cases , and provisionally name these bodies as shown in the following table:\mdash ; Deep bluey uOCitron .
New Elements in Gadolinite and Samarskite .
[ June 10 , 1886 .
] The Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air .
The initial letters , and recall the origin of the eartbs respectively from Didymium , Samarskite , and Gadolinite .
The radiant-matter test applied to these phospborescing bodies proves itself to be every day more and more valuable , and one of the most far-searching and trustworthy tools ever placed in the hands of the experimental chemist .
It is an exquisitely delicate test capable of being applied to bodies which have been tely separated , but not yet completely isolated , by chemical means ; its delicacy is unsurpassed even in the region of spectrum analysis ; its economy is great , inasmnch as the test involves no destruction of the specimen , and its convenience is such that given specimen is always available for future reference .
Likewise the quantity of material is limited solely by the power of the human eye to see body under examination .
Beyond all these excellencies is its trustworthiness .
I slIould be exceeding the legitimate inference from experience were I to claim that this test is infallible ; but this I may the five years which this test has been in daily use in my laboratory : I never once have been led to view its indications with suspicion .
Anomalies and apparent contradictions have cropped up in plenty ; but a littJe more experiment has always shown that the anomalies were but finger-posts pointing to fresh paths of discovery , and the contradictions were due to my own erroneous interpretation of the facts before me .
DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES .
Fig. spectrum of , showing the absence of the element forming the band Fig. speclrum hitherto ascribed to Didymium .
Fig. -spectrum of Didymium showing concentration of element forming the band Fig. spectrum of Dysprosium according to M. de Boisbaudran .
Fig. spectrum showing the isolation of the band , included by M. de Boisbaudran in the spectrum of Dysprosium .
X. ' The Distribution of Micro-organisms in Air .
By PERCY .
FRANKLAND , Ph. D. , B.Sc. , F.C. , F.I.C. , Assoc. Roy .
Sch .
Mines .
Communicated by L. FRANKLAND , F.R. .
Received June ?
, 1886 .
The micro-organisms in air have ormed t subject of investigations by Pasteur , Tyndall , Miquel , and many othel .
S. The researches of these experimenters have shown that these anisms are most widely distributed throughout the accessible ions of the atmosphere , yet that very marked differences do exist in the numbers which are present in diiferent places , and in the same places at different times .

