]\gt ; 77 ] On certain Definite Integrals .
nrer the normal of the face ( 100 ) than that of the blue , the direcbion of the irst line on the norlnal of , and on that of Crystals of potassium , containing silver nitrate than the lble salt , gave ttugles what closely with those of ordi , ; the not give very good reflections .
The resuIts obtaiued by Bose with sodium containing trate were confirmed so far the crystals permitted of me suremenf .
Crystals of strontium nitrate silver llit]ate Jlasurements , , with those of edron .
'On certain Definite Integl a. ) By .
L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received June 1877 .
The following paper is continuation of two pers recently connnuicated to the Royal Society , and inserted in the ' oceedings .
' , Mr. W. H. L. Russell on [ June 2 ] inuing the process , find , and more generally .
like nner may find the integral and more generally .
( C certain Definite Integrals .
361 [ have been asked to indicats the thod of obtaining some of egrals .
This I now do .
( 8 .
) is obtained by summiDg the series for by meilns of the defiintegral ( 9 .
) by nding in terms of tho resulting series means of the definite integral combining the definite integrals arising from the process , the lule the addition of binomial surds .
To faiIl ( ) 1 terms of , and then sum series by means of the 13 .
) is found in a similar manner .
( 14 .
) is using the integral and ( 16 .
) by meiLUS of the to obain ( 8 ) .
( 10 .
) is found summing up the series for means the definite .
( 40 .
) is derived from 19 .
) by integrahng by parts ; this integral be by Jxpansion .
( 21 .
) and ) are obtaiued from definite is by using the 362 On certain Defimte Integrals .
( 34 .
) , ( 35 .
) , and ( 50 .
) ariss from the integrals [ June ) ( 53 .
) , ( 54 .
) , and ( 55 .
) are obtained by using series analogous to , ( 60 .
) , and ( 61 .
) are found by the sel.ies The selies employed are considered as convergent , according to the rule given by Cauchy .
On account of the great importance of the subject of convergent series , I have thought that mathematicians would be terested to see how the results of Cauchy are confirmed by a method given by me in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society ' for 1872 , vol. xxi .
page 20 , and which was afterwards discovered independently by Sir W. Thomson .
Let be any series , then I call when increases without limit the ultimate ratio of the series , and denote it by .
Then if is less than the series will be ' convergent .
Now consider the function which we have employed in these inveshg fions .
Since , the sel'ies comprising can no powers , and therefore we may assume Expanding in terms of multiplyin the series togethe obtain . .
; or Let without limit , then . .
Presents .
ence 1vhich gives , or ' or ; at is to say , the series ] ] be convergent if . . .
ffi than unity\mdash ; that is .
if is less thau ; which vilh the sult given by Cauchy .
Let us next cousider the series .
, eclsily obtain by differentintion the tion f. deterining hich may be written increases without limit , , and the equation becomes , or hence the is ) ergent ) er may ecome .
Qraus ctions .
asch Gmstell en Tijdschrift 100 , Land- , en unde .
Deel XIII .
Afl .
5\amp ; 6 ; Deel XXlV .
Afl .
otuleu de eu .
Deel 2-4 .
talogus de Ethnologische A ] het bIusenln .
ecde Druk .
Yerslag even zameling ] .
Het oisch der Mol .
] The :\mdash ; Bussey Institulion .
Bulletin .
] .
Il .
Cherbourg : Rendu , 30 Dcc .
DubJin:\mdash ; University Biologieal rocc e. I. iatiou .

