]\gt ; On the Di.action of Light by Particles Comparable with the Wave-length .
B. A. KEEN , B.Sc. , Physics Research Scholar , and ALFRED W. PORTER , F.R.S. , Fellow of Universiby , University of London .
( Received October l , \mdash ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) This research was undertaken to investigate an effect first noticed by one of us ( A. W. P. ) when experimenti1lg with the light scattered by suspensions of finely divided sulphur .
These were obtained , in the well-known way , by depositing sulphur a solution of thiosulphate of soda by means of a weak acid .
When such a suspension is placed in the path of a beam from an arc lamp focussed on a SCl'een , the image of the carbon is usually red , of rrreater or less depth ding to the size and number of the diffracting particles .
The production of this red colour has been satisfactorily explained by Lord Rayleigh* as due to the selective blue light by particles which are small compared with the wave-length of the One of us noticed , however , that if time ) given for the particles to increase in size ( and in number also ) the solution after becoming nearly opaque transparent yain , but in this new stage an excess of blue is transrnittc , which attains at one stage a deep indigo tint , this wards changing through various blue-green reen tints , to white .
This very remarkable result is in direct variance with the current theory of the action of small particles , and presents , therefore , a problem investigation .
While making quantitative measurements upon it we found that analogous pheno.mena had been observed previously , though no ation had been undertaken to explain the effect observed .
For example Captain Abney , in connection with his preparation of a hotographic plate which would be sensitive to the infra-red region , experimented with silver bromide and attempted to get it in a different molecular condition from that generally found .
He says : ' I need not detail the different methods of preparation of this compound in collodion that were carried out .
In some cases I obtained it in a state which , when viewed by transmitted light , appeared of a sky-blue colour inclining to green , visibly abSorbing the red .
In this condition it ( the photographic plate ) was sensitive to the whole spectrlun , visible and inyisil ) \ldquo ; 'Phil .
Mag 1871 , , pp. ; 1899 , vol. 43 , pp. 376-384 .
'Phil .
Trans 1880 , Pt. II , p. ) ofLight by ticles Cwith Wave-length .
371 , Walther Bitz*gives a new method of preparing the sensitive compound , , iving superior results to those obtained by Abney .
In the course of his directions he notes:\mdash ; " " Les bromures de zinc et sont a peu pres equivalents : on peut aussi remplacer le d'alcool et d'c'ther par de l'alcool me'thylique ou de tone .
La transformation du bromure d'argent est donc d'ordre purement physique ; elle est d'ailleurs toujours d'une augmentation du diametre des grains .
Enfin l'emulsion a soumise sous pression des temp allant pendant ume heure et pendant 24 heures .
Il n'a cependant pas possible de depasser la limit donnee par Abney , le bronure devenant granuleux et se de'composant .
La couleur caract bleue de d'Abney ( par transparence ) ici imme'diatement et a froid .
These vations made by others are important ) ecause they show that the is not peculiar to sulphur .
of The research consisted of , at instants after setting free the thiosulphuric acid , the transparency of the suspension to monochromatic lights of various wave-lengths .
For this purpose a Hiifner spectrophotometer was employed , and made by Messrs. and Co. Light passing first through a fixed nicol , and then through one which can be rotated , is matched with the solution and the second nicol .
its way the is sorted into its constituent colours by means of constant deviation prism ; the match call therefore be made any desired in succession .
By trial it was found that the most suitable .
of acid and thiosulphate to use were such that the first sign of blue } appeared about two minutes after mixing , at ordinary temperatures .
The exact strengths used in the present work were lnolecule thiosulphate per litre and .
molecule of HC1 per litre .
These were approximately chemically equivalent .
It was soon found that , to obtain any concordance in the results obtained on different occasions , it was to pay particular attention to temperature and also to keep the solution continually stirred .
Stray had to be excluded as far as possible , as it seriously affected the power of the eye in matching the two halves of the beam .
It was also necessary to guard against fatigue of the eye in the course of an experiment .
The ular lass cell containing the solution was of 1 cm .
interllal meter .
This immersed in a one containing water to keep the temperature constant , ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1906 , vol. 143 , p. 16 372 Messrs. B. A. Keen and A. W. Porter .
of while between this and the source of light another water cell was placed to S act as a heat screen .
As source of light a Welsbach mantle was employed .
Various heat and screens were placed where experience indicated .
thermometer was placed in the solution .
Air was continually through to prevent the particles settling and to make their rowth as regular as possible .
The air tube was arranged so that the stream of bubbles was outside the field of view .
A very steady stream of air was obtained from a toy vertical steam engine driven " " backwards\ldquo ; by an electric motor .
To prevent any considerable evaporation a glass plate was placed over the top of the small cell .
The reaction was complete in about 30 minutes .
At the close of an experiment the cell was cleaned with a wet plug of cotton wool to remove any adhering sulphur , thoroughly washed out with distilled water , and dried by a stream of dust-free air .
Two typical \mdash ; one in the blue and the other in the red\mdash ; were elected , and the complete experiment performed with one wave-length at a time .
The final curves obtained ( fig. 1 ) are each composed of three sets of FIG. 1 .
obtained in this manner .
The readings for either wave-length do not differ among themselves by more than the experimental error involved in setting the nicol .
* It will be noticed that the initial portion of each curve is ot The experimental points have been omitted to prevent confusion .
The magnitude of the experimental error , however , is slightly less than that between the values indicated by circles in fig. 2 and the mean curve drawn through them .
Light by Particles Comparable with the .
373 iven .
There are two reasons for this omission .
In the place very little of the light is diffracted at this early stage of the reaction , consequently the of the source is too bright to permit of accurate comparison of the intensity of the two halves of beam , as considerable movements of the adjustable nicol then produce no appreciable ariation of intensity .
The second source of error is due to the rapid rate at which the intensity changes in the stages of the reaction , that is to say , immediately after the first pause during which no deposit is formed .
This obviously makes any experimental error of more importance .
Reliable readings of this initial pol.tion of the curve were obtained in separate experiments by a colour screen in the path of that portion of the beam which passes the solution .
Although this reduced the intensity of the light in an ascertainable ratio , it made the accuracy in setting the nicol much reater , as a small movement of the nicol now 5 Minubes 15 FIG. 2.\mdash ; Curve intensity of transmitted light in the early stages of the reaction .
withcolourscreenwithoutcolourscreen } Temperature 374 Messrs. B. A. Keen and A. W. Porter .
action of produced appreciable effect on the intensity .
From these readings the corresponding intensities , had the screen been absent , were easily obtained .
With the help of an assistant to read the watch , readings were taken at Hhorter intervals .
The curve obtained is shown in fig. 2 , the readings being indicated by circles .
A control experiment was made without the colour screen : , these readings are indicated by crosses .
As already mentioned , the yrowth of the particles is very sensitive to temperature changes .
In fig. shown two curves to indicate this .
The temperatures were adjusted by putting hot water or ice in the water-bath .
FIG. 3.\mdash ; Curves showing the effect of temperature upon the reaction .
Naturally the temperature could not be kept very constant by this means and these curves must be regarded as qualitative only .
The character of the curve is very different at the two temperatures , the observations at the lower temperature not indicating the dip which is the subject of this paper .
It should be observed that the data for figs. 2 and vere taken with a different experimental cell from those for fig. 1 .
The size of the particles was measured with the microscope when the intensity of the passing through was a minimum , i.e. about 10 minutes after mixing ( see fig. 1 ) .
At the end of 10 minutes a drop of the solution was placed on a slide , and further action was then stopped by neutralising the unchanged acid with ammonia .
The extreme limits of variation were from to , thus indicating that the particles at this stage were considerably Light by Particles Comparable with the -length .
375 larger than those used by Lord Rayleigh in his experiments .
* This was confirmed by repeating his experiments with solutions of the strength mentioned above .
Particles of the size used by Lord give rise to the early portion of the curve in The gradual change of the transmitted from red through blue to white is well brought out by the curves in fig. 1 .
In the first stages of the reaction the intensity of the blue light falls off more rapidly than the red .
At the end of about 8 minutes the blue has reached its minimum intensity and begins to increase , while the red light is still to its minimum .
The transmitted \mdash ; when due allowance is made for the rest of the spectrum\mdash ; becomes a purple oolour .
After the cross , blue end of the spectrum predominates , and hence the blue colour of the transmitted hich radually changes to white as the remaining rays increase in intensity .
The minimum and final intensities are the same for each wave-length .
The final intensity ( the horizontal portion of the curves ) remains constant for a considerable time and then very slowly increases , owing to the ulation and consequent settling of the sulphur particles .
Interesting information on the rate of growth of the ) articles is afforded by an examination of the curves given in fig. 1 .
If the abscissae of the curve for blue are increased in the ratio of the wave-lengths , i.e. 660/ 475 , the new points are very nearly coincident with the ctlrve for red light .
The points so obtained are indicated by crosses .
As one would expect , the agreement is not so complete in the initial portion of the curves , but ovel the greater part very reement holds .
This result shows that the transmitted intensity may be represented as a function of , where is the time .
With regard to the relation between the time and the diameter of the particles more difficulty exists .
In the through which Lord Rayleigh has extended his calculations , the intensity is a function of the diameter divided by .
This would make the diameter the particles increase proportionally to the time .
Too much mcertainby exists in to the physical cesses involved during the of the particles to devise with any confidence a theoretical value for the rate of rowth .
We may safely assume a practically instantaneous liberation of acid , which then decomposes .
If this were all , the rate of liberation of sulphur would be proportional to the undecomposed thiosulphuric acid , or , and , that itself would be a linear function of in the early stages .
But experimental evidence is in favour of the existence at first of supersaturation , ' Collected Papers , ' vol. 5 , p. 547 ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1910 , , vol. 84 , p. 376 of Light by Particles Convparable with Wave-length .
hich at last gives way with a sudden deposition of sulphur particles , which .
then grow .
If we assume that the thiosulphuric acid has decomposed according to the monomolecular law throughout , and that from this stage all that is formed deposits on the particles , same equation will still hold good for the period after the sudden deposition .
But this law is too simple an account , for the process will be mainly controlled by the diffusion of supersatu.rated solution toward the formed particles .
The amount reaching the particles may be taken as proportional to area or to their mass ) and the equation becomes .
In the early stages ( for which can be treated as constant ) this leads to const .
so that the diameter would be a linear function of the time .
In the recent paper by Lord , which we have cited , interesting shown to take place in the polarisation of the as the particles increase , but here does not appear to be any indication of the phenomena with which this paper deals .
We not foumd it possible to modify the theoretical equations , so as to make the calculations manageable for the larger particles with which we seem chiefly to be concerned .
The phenomena appear to be analogous to the different order spectra obtained with an ordinary .
The results are published in the hope that the attention of mathematicians may be called to an interesting but very difficult which still requires mathematical treatment .

