January 11 , 1844 .
The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON , President , in the Chair .
" An Account of a slight Shock of an Earthquake felt in the Channel Islands .
" By J. Elliott Hoskins , M.D. , F.R.S. : in a Letter to P. M. Roget , M.D. , Sec. R.S. , &amp;c. Communicated by Dr. Roget .
The phenomena described in this letter occurred simultaneously in Jersey , Guernsey , Alderney , Serk , Herne , andJethore .
On Friday , the 22nd of December , at seven minutes before 4 P.M. , a noise resembling a distant thunder-clap was heard ; this was immediately followed by sounds as of a railroad carriage rumbling over an irregular metallic surface ; it was accompanied by distinct undulatory motion .
This again was succeeded by a shock ; the whole lasting from 10 to 15 seconds .
The barometer was uninfluenced , standing at 30'354 : a light wind prevailed , varying from S.S.E. to S.S.W. During the whole of the month the air had been peculiarly still , and the barometer uniformly high ; the maximum , up to the above date , having been 30*518 , the minimum 30'042 .
The thermometer had ranged throughout the month , from 47 ?
to 52 ?
during the day , and from 45 ?
to 49 ?
during the night , Hundreds of persons agree as to having experienced a distinct shock , their impressions varying according to the positions occupied by the observers .
Those inhabiting the solid granite structures of the lower town conceived that heavy masses of furniture were overturned and moved in the apartments above or below them : they were not , however , so conscious of vibratory motion as those in the less substantial houses of the upper part of the town , or as those in the open air .
In many houses , this vibratory motion was so violent as to cause much alarm , and was accompanied by crashing sounds , as though roofs and chimneys were falling ; in some instances , chimneypots were thrown down ; suspended lamps were observed to wave ; bells rang spontaneously ; the vane of the town church waved , and one of its bells struck twice .
Persons in the open air were sensible of an undulatory motion , tending from the S.W. , which occasioned unsteadiness of footing , and in some cases a transient feeling of nausea .
A steam-engine in the Serk mines was remarked to suspend one out of its usual five strokes per minute ; the engineer was alarmed lest this should be a precursor of bursting of the boiler .
The massive granite works of St. Sampson 's quay were so shaken , that glass vessels situated on various parts were thrown off .
Two gentlemen engaged in Daguerreotype experiments on the ramparts of a fortification founded on a solid granite rock , felt the whole to vibrate .
The crews of sailingvessels beating up in the " roads , " also felt the shock ; those below rushing on deck under the impression that the vessels had struck on a rock .
The testimony of a great number of witnesses leaves no doubt as to the distinctness and strength of the shock .
It was also felt , though in a slighter degree , in the neighbourhood of St. Malo , and near Brixham in Devonshire .

