Description of an Apparatus for the Analysis of the Compound Inflammable Gases by slow Combustion ; with Experiments on the Gas from Coal , explaining its Application .
By William Henry , M.D. VicePres .
of the Lit. and Phil. Society , and Physician to the Infirmary , at Manchester .
Communicated by Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read June 23 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 282 .
] The object of this memoir is to remove some obstacles which present themselves to a successful inquiry into the nature of compound inflammable gases .
When a vegetable substance is submitted to distillation , at a temperature not below that of ignition , the equilibrium of affinities is destroyed , and the elements composing it are united in a new manner .
The carbon , uniting with oxygen , either composes carbonic acid gas , or stopping short of that degree of oxygenation , is converted into carbonic oxide .
The hydrogen , combining with a portion of charcoal , forms either carburetted hydrogen gas , or supercarburetted hydrogen , better known by the name of olefiant gas .
Towards the close of the process , simple hydrogen gas is also mingled with the products .
The method hitherto pursued for the analysis of inflammable gases , has consisted in mixing them with a known proportion of oxygen , burning the mixture by the electric spark , noting the first contraction and subsequent diminution , by lime-water , for the quantities of water and of carbonic acid formed , and thence inferring the proportion of hydrogen and of carbon in the gas examined , without making due allowance for the possible admixture of carbonic oxide , either before or after the combustion .
The author ascertains the presence of this gas by its great specific gravity , and by the very small proportion of oxygen with which it unites ; but in the distillation of coal there is also often present a quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen , and an inflammable gas , which may possibly be a gas sui generis , but is more probably a mixture of carburetted hydrogen and carbonic oxide .
In Dr. Henry 's apparatus , which is not readily explained without reference to a drawing , the gas to be examined is passed through a small tube into a receiver containing oxygen gas , and is there burned by a continued flame .
The quantity of gas introduced , and quantity of contraction , are noted .
The quantity of carbonic acid formed is found by liquid potash .
The remaining oxygen is determined by sulphuret of lime .
As it sometimes happens that part of the gas escapes combustion , precautions are given for avoiding that source of error , and the means of detecting it described .
Instances are given of computation , from combustion , of hydrogen gas , of olefiant gas , as the most simple , and of gas from cannel coal , in which it is a problem of some difficulty to determine the proportions of all the gases that occur ; and these are carbonic acid , sulphuretted hydrogen , olefiant gas , carburetted hydrogen , and carbonic oxide .
The sum of the two first is determined by liquid potash , after which the third is ascertained by oxymuriatic gas .
The sum .
of the second and third may be determined by oxymuriatic gas , and then the first absorbed by liquid potash .
The first and third being thus known , the second may be inferred , though not removed alone .
The nature of the inflammable residuum is then learned by combustion , due regard being had to its specific gravity , and to the proportion which the carbonic acid formed bears to the oxygen consumed .
A table is given of the products of various gases , from several different species of coal ; and a second table , of the specific gravities of these gases , with the quantities of carbonic acid formed from each , and the quantity of oxygen required for their combustion .
It is observed generally , that in the distillation of all these substances , the gas received at the commencement of the process is the heaviest , that it requires the largest proportion of oxygen , and is fittest for the purpose of illumination .

