554 ZOOLOGY OF RODRIGUEZ .
Annelida.\#151 ; By Professor Ed. The Annelids obtained are few in number and belong to two species :\#151 ; Perichaeta , Perichaeta rodericensis .
Longius vermiformis , anteriora versus citius magisque attenuata , teres , ex carneo flavescens , lsete iricolor , paulo pellucida , segmentis fere 110 , ante Vi*\#153 ; * sitis majoribus , psene 2-plo latioribus , posterioribus 3-plo fere latioribus quani longis .
Bobus capitalist quoad observare licuit , semiovalis , latior quam longus , linea pgene recta a segmento buccali sepositus .
Segmen buccale illo ut proximo longius .
tegmentum 14\lt ; mum et 15mum(clitellse ) sordide crocea , satis libera ut buccale , nec vero tumida .
Setae apice quasi cur vat se , segmentorum ante clitellas sitorum paulo majores , 32-nae ad 36-nas , annulis leviter elatis collocatse , posteriorum minores , ssepe segre distinguendse , ad 60-nas , postremorum 40-nae .
Segmentum Vjmum subtus pone cingulum setarum utrinque eminentia planiore orbiculari munitum , centro distinctius circumscripto .
Aperturae genitales anteriores haud observatse .
Longitudo fere 100 mm. , partis ante clitellas sitae 21 mm. , clitellarum 2 mm. , latitudo maxima ( proxime ante clitellas ) 4 , 5 mm. , partis postremae 3 mm. Rather common in damp earth and moss.\#151 ; { Gulliver ) .
Several examples were received , the longest of which measured 110 mm. , and the shortest 45 mm. ; they were in all cases particularly soft , but , as in but a few cases the integument had pealed off to a very small extent , this did not appear to be due to the mode of their preservation , but to the thinness of the muscular layer .
The wall of the body is so transparent that it was possible to see the viscera and large vascular trunks quite distinctly ; thus , in the 9th and 10th segments the stomach may be seen shining through the wall of the body ; in the 11th and 12th the two pairs of organs to which Leon Vaillant* has given the name of testes ( 1 .
c. Pig .
4 h li ) and in the 16th to the 19th inclusive , as also in the 20th segment , his " Glandes " accessoires du Canal deferent .
" Dissection revealed the presence in the 18th segment , of a minute C-shaped caecum ; but it was in one example only that I noted the distinct presence of the above-mentioned circular 'protuberances with their sharply projecting centra ( in which I was in no case able to find an orifice ) .
There are no longitudinal costulae on the most anterior segments ; the whole animal is rounded , the hinder end not being either flattened out or * Leon Vaillant.\#151 ; Note sir l'Anatomie de deux Especes du Genre Perichaeta.\#151 ; Montpellier , 1869 .
ANNELIDA.\#151 ; ED .
GRUBE .
dilated , but also well rounded , and gradually tapering off to the extremity of the body .
It was impossible to detect the presence of any genital orifices .
The cephalic lobe was very indistinct , as the pharynx was partially " exserted , but I believe I discerned an almost perfectly straight line of boundary between it and the buccal segment .
The animal under description would seem therefore to belong to the genus Nito-cris , Kbg .
, * inasmuch as the setae on the post-clitellar segments are distinct , and , as a rule , much more numerous than those on the anterior segments ; it is true that Kinberg in his diagnosis , says " cingulum nullum " ; perhaps , because he regards the presence of a swelling as an essential character of the cingulum ( clitelloe ) ; such a swelling is absent also in our Perichaeta , but I am , nevertheless , of opinion that the two segments which are so markedly distinguished by their colour , and by the absence of setae must be regarded as forming a cingulum .
As however there is some doubt as to the presence of this organ , I think it best to describe this worm from Bodriguez under the more general name of Perichaeta ( as defined by Schmarda ) .
Only one species of Nitocris is known , N. , Kbg .
, from Bio de Janeiro ; this has as many as 91 segments , and is from 42-66 mm. long ; there is a cephalic lobe which is said to be nearly as long as the buccal segment .
In our species it is , I think , shorter ; Kinberg does not state the number of setae on the anterior or posterior segments , or any other distinctive characters ; but , in any case , it would be against all experience , if the two forms were identical .
Amphinome , Brug .
A. ( Eurgthoe ) pacifica , Kb .
When I was determining the examples of this species I was undecided whether they should be referred to B. pacifica , or , Kbg .
; as in both of these species , there are four buccal segments , and the caruncle does not extend to the fifth segment .
In E. capensis , however , it is said to extend beyond the fine which separates the third from the fourth segment , and not to be lobate ; in our specimen , the caruncle does not extend so far , and its basal portion is lobed .
I did not observe any distinctly finer setae in the ventral fascicle , where the number of bristles was about 25 ; the setae of the superior fascicles are either linear , having their points long and somewhat distinct , or they are much stronger and provided with about 11 denticles at their points , otherwise they are smooth ; all white , but those in the ventral bundles are of a more yellowish colour .
The dorsal cirrus , which Kinberg states to be shorter than the superior setae , I find to be of the same , or even of a somewhat greater length .
The branchiae are most intensely coloured , nearly ferrugineous , which I have not observed in any other examples of A. pacifica ; the filaments are grouped rather in the form of the fan , than in several rows , and , as a * Kinberg , Annulata nova .
Ofvers .
Kongl .
Yetensk .
Akad .
Forhandl .
, 1866 , p. 102 .
rule , are divided into four branches ; the first gill had only four , hut the second as many as 15 filaments ; the fourth and fifth reach those opposite to them , but this is not the case with the succeeding ones .
The anus is dorsal in position and occupies the three last segments .
In one example , in which there are 73 segments , the length is 71 mm. , the greatest breadth of the median segments , which are about or 5 times as broad as long , is on the ventral surface 9 mm. , or , adding the pharetrae , 10 , or the setse 13 mm. Kinberg 's figure* ( 1 .
c. Taf .
XII .
, Eig .
11 ) represents the animal as much more slender , but in his description no weight is laid on the proportions of the segments , and it is possible that the figure was taken from a living specimen .
The caruncle is 1*4 mm. long ; its basal portion has six descending grooves ; the upper portion is swollen and undivided ; the azygos tentacle is 0*5 mm. long , and somewhat shorter and thinner than the others .
* Eugenies Resa .
Annulata .

