1894 .
] Organisation , and Classification of Cossil .
29d XVII .
" Researches on the Structure , Organisation , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia .
Part IX .
Section 6 .
Associated Remains of two small Specimens from Klipfontein , Fraserburg .
" By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The author obtained parts of two skeletons from the summit of the Karroo rocks , which form the Nieuweldt range .
They resemble Theriodonts in their general marsupial characters .
The fragments of skulls are not in the same slabs with the other bones .
Theromus leptonotus shows the fore-limb and some vertebras .
The humerus is determined to be Theriodont by the transverse extension of the proximal articulation .
The bone is lyo inches long , resembling in form that of the Phalaugers .
The ent-epicondylar foramen is more vertical than in the marsupials ; and , as among marsupials , the radial crest if prolonged distally would be continuous with the bridge over that foramen .
The vertebrae are each T3y inch long ; they show a transverse suture between the neural arch and the centrum .
The anterior part of the skull , very imperfectly preserved , indicates three incisor teeth with the root of a relatively large maxillary canine , but the region of the molar teeth is lost .
There is also a posterior fragment of a skull , which makes known the bones of the palate and the base of the brain case seen from above .
Enough is shown to indicate Theriodont characters , but the animal appears to diverge from the Theriodonts towards the Dicynodont type .
If the base of the skull belongs to the same individual as the snout , it indicates a head nearly 4f inches long .
The second specimen shows 14 dorsal vertebrae , which occupy a length of 5y inches ; each slightly exceeds -yo inch in length , so that this animal named Herpetocheirus hr achy enemies , is similar in size to the fossil previously described .
The centrum is deeply biconcave .
There is no indication of a capitular articulation for the ribs .
The ribs are slender , and the longest are 2^ inches in length .
There is no trace of the transverse expansion seen in Cynognathus , although the ribs preserved indicate 20 dorsal vertebrae .
The humerus is lT6y inches long , and is exposed on the superior aspect .
It is distinguished from the type already described by wanting the tuberosity on its inner distal border , which has a convexly rounded contour .
The radius is stronger than the ulna , but there is no indication of an olecranon process exposed .
The ulna is no stouter than a rib .
These bones are an inch long .
The carpus shows one large bone below the radius ; there is a smaller 296 Dr. H. Gadow and Miss Abbott .
On the [ June 21 , bone on its outer side , which corresponds to the distal end of the ulna , but there is no trace of a third bone preserved , and there is only one central bone preserved .
There are three phalanges in a digit .
The femur is 1-^- inches long ; its articular head appears to be small and hemispherical .
There is a large internal trochanter extending down the shaft , which corresponds with the similarly placed ridge in the femur of Megalosaurs and other Saurischia .
The slender character of the ribs , which are different from those in known Theriodonts , suggests the possibility that these remains belong to a group distinct from both the Cynodontia and Gomphodontia .
A small badly preserved fragment of a skull found near to this fossil is described , but there appears to be no sufficient evidence for associating it with the other remains .
XVIII .
" On the Evolution of the Vertebral Column of Fishes .
" By H. Gadow , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Miss E. C. Abbott .
Received June 20 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) Concerning the segmental mesodermal products the following subdivision is adhered to :\#151 ; The term myotome is to be restricted to the whole rest of the protovertebra after the skeletogenous cells have been given off for the production of the sklerotomes .
The sum total of the sklerotomes makes up the skeletogenous layer .
The ending tome to indicate the primary , or earlier , less differentiated ; the ending mere to signify the final condition or product .
Consequently , the protovertebree divide into\#151 ; I , Myotomes , each of which produces ( 1 ) one myomere or segment of the general mass of trunk-muscles , ( 2 ) cutis ; II , Sklerotomes which produce sklero-meres or skeletal trunk segments .
Each protovertebra produces a dorsal and a ventral sklerotome ; strictly speaking , one sklerotome which consists of a separate dorsal and ventral half The protovertebral segments are not transverse " plates , " but are curved into S-shape , the top end curving tail- and inwards , the middle and ventral thirds bulging headwards , the amount of curvature being ( in 7 mm. embryos of Acanthias ) so great that a transverse plane will cut through the dorsal and ventral third of one , and through the middle portion of the next following segment .
This S-shaped curving and consequent overlapping of the protovertebral " plates " SS is of fundamental importance for our under-

