New Method of computing Logarithms .
By Thomas Manning , Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read June 5 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 327 .
] If , Mr. Manning observes , there existed as full and extensive logarithmic tables as ever will be wanted , and of whose accuracy we were absolutely certain , and if the evidence for that accuracy could remain unimpaired through all ages , then any new method of computing logarithms would be totally superfluous , so far as concerns the formation of tables , and could only be valuable indirectly , and inasmuch as it might show some curious and new views of mathematical truth .
But the above kind of evidence is necessarily impaired by the lapse of time , even while the original record remains , and still more when the record must from time to time be renewed by copies : nor is the uncertainty of copies being accurately taken greater , in any case than in that of copied numbers .
It is consequently useful to contrive new and easy methods for computing new tables , or for examining those we already have ; and it is particularly useful to contrive methods by which any part of a table may be verified , independently of the rest ; for by examining parts taken at random , we may , in some cases , acquire a moral certainty respecting the accuracy of the whole .
Among the various methods of computing logarithms , none , our author says , possesses the advantage of forming them with tolerable ease , independently of each other , by means of a few easy bases .
This desideratum , he trusts , the method described by him will supply ; being very easy of application , as it requires no division , multiplication , or extraction of roots , and has its relative advantages highly increased by increasing the number of decimal places to which the computation is carried .
The chief part of the work , according to the method laid down by Mr. Manning , consists in merely setting down a number , under itself , removed one or more places to the right , and subtracting ; then repeating this operation .
This method , consequently , is very little liable to error ; and may be performed , after a few minutes instruction , by any one who is able to subtract .
Besides , from the commodious situation of the figures , the work may be revised with great rapidity .
It is as easy for large numbers as for small ones ; and , on an average , about 27 subtractions will furnish a logarithm accurately to ten places of decimals .
A similar method , by addition only , may , Mr. Manning says , in some cases , be used with advantage ; and various artifices may be occasionally employed to shorten the computation , both in the method by subtraction and in that by addition : the two methods may also be sometimes advantageously combined together .
It must , however , be observed , that the method by subtraction has many advantages over that by addition ; particularly as from its being more simple , and more completely mechanical , it may be confided to the most unskilful persons without much danger of error .
Various examples of our author 's mode of computation and rules for conducting it are given , for which we must necessarily refer to the paper itself .

