188 On the Action of Senecio Alkaloids and the Causation of Hepatic Cirrhosis in Cattle .
{ Preliminary Note .
) By Arthur E. Cushny , F.R.S. ( Received May 25 , \#151 ; Read June 15 , 1911 .
) ( From the Pharmacological Laboratory , University College , London .
) The various species of Senecio in this country are generally regarded as harmless , the chief of them being the common ragwort and the common groundsel .
In Nova Scotia , New Zealand , and South Africa they have , however , been associated with hepatic cirrhosis in cattle , which is known as Pictou , Winton , and Molteno disease in these countries .
The species which induces this condition in Canada and New Zealand is apparently identical botanically with the common ragwort of this country , Senecio Jacobcea , while in South Africa the Molteno disease is associated with the Senecio Burchellii and the Senecio latifolius .
The symptoms of the disease are practically identical in these localities .
The cattle are observed to be badly nourished for some time , but definite symptoms appear only three or four days before death , commencing in diarrhoea , dry and staring coat , and disinclination to feed .
The cattle then lie down , or sometimes become frenzied and charge anyone who approaches .
Soon coma and unconsciousness set in , and death follows .
The liver is found to present the appearance of chronic cirrhosis in some cases , in others there is marked venous congestion of this organ .
The gall-bladder is distended with viscous , generally dark-coloured , bile , and there may be petechia } in this organ , in the urinary bladder , and heart .
The fourth stomach contains haemorrhages and sub-mucous exudations .
The intestine is inflamed around the openings of the bile ducts .
The disease being of great economic importance , a number of investigations have been instituted , which have proved that it is due to feeding on these species of Senecio .
With regard to the chemistry of the Senecio genus , Grandval and Sejour found two alkaloids in the common groundsel , which they term senecionine and senecine , and Watt found two others in the Senecio latifolius of Cape Colony , and has named them senecifoline and senecifolidine .
These two bases were sent to me for pharmacological examination by Prof. W. R. Dunstan , and I have done a number of experiments with them , chiefly upon cats .
Senecio Alkaloids and Hepatic Cirrhosis in Cattle .
189 The symptoms induced are of two kinds , acute and sub-acute .
The acute symptoms commence with nausea and salivation , extremely accelerated respiration , and , somewhat later , violent clonic convulsions under large doses .
These acute symptoms generally pass off in the course of two or three hours , and the animal appears perfectly well very often for the next two or three days or longer .
Some loss of weight may occur during this time , and then the sub-acute symptoms are introduced by a stool of rather loose consistency , loss of appetite , and in some cases vomiting .
The animal1 then becomes weak and disinclined to move , and passes into a condition of apathy , stupor and coma , death following by failure of the respiration .
These later symptoms succeed each other rapidly , death occurring within* 24 to 48 hours after the first sub-acute symptoms .
Very similar symptoms were obtained in rats .
The symptoms were the same whether the drug was given hypodermically or by the mouth .
Postmortem appearances varied a good deal in different animals .
There was often* found an unusual amount of fluid in the abdominal cavity , sometimes of a. bright yellow colour .
Small ecchymoses were sometimes found , in the-omentum , and fat deposits in the abdomen .
The stomach contained black masses of half-digested blood , and the duodenum also contained some effused !
blood mixed with mucus .
The liver was swollen and congested , and the* gall-bladder was generally distended with very dark-coloured viscous bile , which could only be expressed from it with difficulty .
Small haemorrhages were often found in the lungs , pancreas , kidney , and some other organs .
Dr. C. Bolton kindly examined some of the organs microscopically and found marked congestion and haemorrhages in the liver , the haemorrhages being in most cases confined to the peripheral half of the lobules .
The hepatic cells in the centre of the lobule were often normal , but further outwards they became distorted by the blood cells and stained badly , and towards the interlobular vein they were quite colourless and evidently in process of disintegration .
Large areas of necrosis of the liver were found .
In acute-poisoning the liver cells often contained globules of fat .
There was some-infiltration of round cells round the portal canal , especially involving the smaller bile ducts and extending upwards from them between the liver cells .
This feature was present in sub-acute cases , though it was more marked in .
chronic poisoning .
In chronic poisoning no symptoms , except loss of weight , were elicited ; until the drug had been given for over a month .
The animal then died with the same appearances as in sub-acute poisoning .
Post mortem the pyloric-end of the stomach contained a quantity of black clotted blood , the duodenum had excessive mucous secretion , the liver was found in an advanced190 Senecio Alkaloids and Hepatic Cirrhosis in state of degeneration , most cells having disappeared and the few remaining staining badly .
The greater part of the section was occupied by blood corpuscles in a state of decomposition .
Round the vessels there were masses of round cells which appeared to be in process of change to connective tissue .
The round cell infiltration extended also into the remains of the lobules and between the surviving liver cells .
The cirrhosis had not proceeded so far as is described in cattle , but was of the same nature , and on the other hand was an obvious development of the process seen in animals which died from a single dose of the alkaloid .
The two alkaloids sent to me induced the same symptoms and the same changes , and seem to be equally toxic .
The whole of the symptoms appear to arise from two different effects , one of them being an action on the central nervous system resembling that seen in many convulsive poisons , but this action is only induced by very large quantities ; On the other hand , when smaller quantities are given , the dominating effect is haemorrhage , which may occur in almost any organ , but which is constant in the liver and almost invariably present in the stomach and bowel .
The haemorrhage in the liver appears to be the cause of most of the other changes , such as the dropsy and jaundice , and the destruction of the liver cells appears to be the starting point for the cirrhosis .
Together with the haemorrhages in the stomach the hepatic changes may probably be the explanation of the loss of weight which forms a characteristic feature in chronic and sub-acute poisoning .
The results with the alkaloids of the S. latifolius suggested the examination of the action of the S. Jacoboea in this country .
Inquiries in various parts of this country indicated that poisoning with this plant is unknown .
In accord with this , I have been unable to obtain any symptoms from animals in which large quantities of the extract of the English ragwort were injected .
On the other hand , the same plant growing in Canada has been shown to induce the characteristic cirrhosis , but an extract of a quantity of this plant grown in Canada also proved inactive .
It is possible , however , that the plant from which my preparations were made had been collected at the wrong season , or the alkaloids may have undergone changes into some inert form in the course of preparation .
S. silvaticus collected in Yorkshire in August proved equally inactive .
S. vulgaris , or common groundsel , collected in England and prepared in the same way , proved poisonous , the animals dying from symptoms resembling those arising from senecifoline , but with marked diarrhoea .

