1874 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. I. 371 Y. " Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. I. On the Absorption of great Thicknesses of Metallic and Metalloidal Vapours .
" By J. Nokman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received April 20 , 1874 .
It has been assumed hitherto that a great thickness of a gas or vapour causes its radiation , and therefore its absorption , to assume more and more the character of a continuous spectrum as the thickness is increased .
It has been shown by Dr. Frankland and myself that such a condition obtains when the density of a vapour is increased , and my later researches have shown that it is brought about in two ways .
Generalizing the work I have already done , without intending thereby to imply necessarily that the rule will hold universally , or that it exhausts all the phenomena , it may be stated that metallic elements of low specific gravity approach the continuous spectrum by widening their lines , while metallic elements of high specific gravity approach the continuous state by increasing the number of their lines .
Hence in the vapours of Na , Ca , Al , and Mg we have a small number of lines which broaden , few short lines being added by increase of density ; in Be , Co , Ni , \amp ; c. we have many lines which do not so greatly broaden , many short lines being added .
The observations I made in India during the total solar eclipse of 1871 were against the assumption referred to ; and if we are to hold that the lines , both " fundamental " and " short , " which we get in a spectrum , are due to atomic impact ( defining by the word atom , provisionally , that mass of matter which gives us a line-spectrum ) , then , as neither the quantity of the impacts nor the quality is necessarily altered by increasing the thickness of the stratum , the assumption seems also devoid of true theoretical foundation .
One thing is clear , that if the assumed continuous spectrum is ever reached by increased thickness , as by increased density , it must be reached through the " short-line " stage .
To test this point I have made the following experiments 1 .
An iron tube about 5 feet long was filled with dry hydrogen ; pieces of sodium were carefully placed at intervals along the whole length of the tube , except close to the ends .
The ends were closed with glass plates .
The tube was placed in two gas-furnaces in line and heated .
An electric lamp was placed at one end of the tube and a spectroscope at the other .
When the tube was red-hot and filled with sodium-vapour throughout , as nearly as possible , its whole length , a stream of hydrogen slowly passing through the tube , the line D was seen to be absorbed ; it was no thicker than when seen under similah conditions in a test-tube , and far thinner than the line absorbed by sodium- vapour in a test-tube , if the density be only slightly increased .
372 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic .\#151 ; No. II .
[ June 11 , Only the longest " fundamental " line was absorbed .
The line was thiclcer than the D line in the solar spectrum , in which spectrum all the short lines are reversed .
2 .
As it was difficult largely to increase either the temperature or the density of the sodium-vapour , I have made another series of experiments with iodine-vapour .
I have already pointed out the differences indicated by the spectroscope between the quality of the vibrations of the " atom " of a metal and of the " subatom " of a metalloid ( by which tepn I define that mass of matter which gives us a spectrum of channelled spaces , and builds up the continuous spectrum in its own way ) .
Thus , in iodine , the short lines , brought about by increase of density in an atomic spectrum , are represented by the addition of a system of well-defined " beats " and broad bands of continuous absorption to the simplest spectrum , which is one exquisitely rhythmical , the intervals increasing from the blue to the red , and in which the beats are scarcely noticeable .
On increasing the density of a very small thickness by a gentle heating , the beats and bands are introduced , and , as the density is still further increased , the absorption becomes continuous throughout the whole of the visible spectrum .
The absorption of a thickness of 5 feet 6 inches of iodine-vapour at a temperature of 59 ' F. has given me no indication of bands , while the beats were so faint that they were scarcely visible .
VI .
" Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. II .
On the Evidence of Variation in Molecular Structure .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1874 .
1 .
In an accompanying note I have shown that when different degrees of dissociating power are employed the spectral effects are different .
2 .
In the present note I propose to give a preliminary account of some researches which have led me to the conclusion that , starting with a mass of elemental matter , such mass of matter is continually broken up as the temperature ( including in this term the action of electricity ) is raised .
3 .
The evidence upon which I rely is furnished by the spectroscope in the region of the visible spectrum .
4 .
To begin by the extreme cases , all solids give us continuous spectra ; all vapours produced by the high-tension spark give us line-spectra .
5 .
Now the continuous spectrum may be , and as a matter of fact is , observed in the case of chemical compounds , whereas all compounds known as such are resolved by the high-tension spark into their constituent elements .
We have a right , therefore , to assume that an element in the solid state is a more complex mass than the element in a state of vapour , as its spectrum is the same as that of a mass which is known to be more complex .

