]\gt ; On of Sir ILLIA ) , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the A List of the Presents received was lnid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The ving Papers were read:\mdash ; I. " " On the Sub-Mechanics of the Unil else.\ldquo ; By } .
OLDS , F.R.S. II .
" " On Chemical Statics and amics under the Action of Light By Dr. MEYER .
Communicated by Dr. , F.R.S. III .
" " Preliminary Note on a Method of Calculatmg Solubilities , Eqnilibrium Constants of Chemical Reactions , and Latent Heats of Vaporisation By Dr. A. FIY .
Communicated ) Pro fessor RAMSAY , F.R.S. IV .
" " The active Indices of tz , and cite.\ldquo ; J. W. Commlmicated by Professol S. P. THOIIPSO , R. S. " " On of UlliY elSe ) .
Received } February , 190 ( Abstract .
) Secl I. Introduction\mdash ; Sketch of the les obtained and the II .
genelal equations of motion of at entit 1 III .
The equations of motion in a pulelv mechanical medium .
fol momentum , and energy .
The equations of continuity systems oi motion he mean nnd relative motions of a I. app1oximate equations of component .
tems of and ltlative motion .
A II .
The condition fur continunncc of component of mean and lelatic motion ] ] .
VIII The , pelties of ] ab rigid lulc aton or dium I X The probnble ldti:)te ion of bers of lesult of mters vllen there is no ) otion of the kinctic tbeo ] to inclucle of and thro llgl ) the } } hen the nncdium ltimate condilion and no an strains XI hc bution ] in lclave Prof. O. eynolds .
XII .
The linear dispersion of mass , of momentum and enelgy of tivo motion by convection .
XIII .
The exchangt ; s between the mean and relative systems .
XIV .
The conservation of inequalities in the and their motions nbout local centres .
XV .
Ihe ation ( of the relative quantities , and defin ) the state of the medium by the lesults of experience ; ( 2 ) the general integration of the equation .
1 .
In this paper it is shown that there is one , and only one , conceivable purely mechanical system capable of accounting for all the evidencs , as we know it , in the universe .
The system is neither more nor less than an arrangement of defin ite extent of uniform spherical grains , generally in normal piling , so close that the grains cannot change their neighbours , although continually in relative motion each other , the grains being of changeless shape and size , thus constituting , to a first approximation , an elastic mcdinm , with six axes of elasticity symmetrically placed .
The diameter of a grain , in C.G.S. mits , is The mean relative velocities of the grains are The mean path of the \fnof ; m These three quantities completely define the state of the in spaces where the piling is normal ; they also define the mean density of the medium as compared with when density of water as The mean pressure in the in all is The coefficient of the transvcrse elasticity resuIting the gearing of the grains where the piling is normal is The rate of propagation of sverse wave is .
The rate of propagation of the ] wave is SbIIechanics of tlw The rate of degradation of the transverse nves , , the resulting from the angular redistribution of the energy is or such as wonld require 56,000,000 to reduce the total energ in the wave in the rntio 1 or to one-cighth , thus mechanical considerations , for the blackness of the sky on a clear night , while the degradation of the , the resulting from the linear redistribntion of energy is such the initial energy would be reduced to one-eighth in the part of a second , or ] ) efore it had ersed 2 metres ; and thus would account , by nlechanical considerations , for the absence of physical evidence of normal waves , except such ce as be obtained within some thousand metres of the orlgnl of the waves , as in the case of Rontgen rays .
2 .
In spaces in which there are local equalities i medium about centres owing to the absence or presence of lumber of grains in deficiency or excess of the number necessary to render the piling normal , stlch local incqualities are anent , attended with or vard strains , as the case ma be , indefinitely thronghout the medium , sing dilatatio1l equal where to the strains , but of opposite sign , i.e. , tntion equal to the volume of the grains , the presence or absencc of lvhich causes tho inequality .
lVhen the arrangenlent of the grains / ) the centrcs is that of nucleus of grains in normad piling , on hich the in the uned llormal piling rest , the nucleus iu piling cannot gear with the ains outside in strained normal piling ; so that there is a surface of nnsfit between the the in strained piling .
Such singular surfnces are surfaces of wenkness , and ) surfaces of freedom , or surfaces of ited s the bouring grains .
These singular snrfaces , their limited is overcome , free to maintain their motion through the nled]m ] , ) a procoss of propagation in any direction , the nunlber of grains entering the on the one side being exactly the same as the ) cavlng 0 the other side , so that when the inequalities arc the result of the ) of grains , they correspond to the of ttcr .
If the singular surface of a is through a medinm which is at rest , the nuclens have no motion , whatevor may be the motion of the But the strained nornlal piling the and moves by propagation with the , being of density than the mcan density of the , represents meant of the negative mass of the of the ) scnt , Prof. O. Reynolds .
ItCW .ection the nlar s is propagated , the , llotion of the mcdium tsidc is such as represents equad and opposite is rising in a glass of water .
ctly the inequalities from excess , the momentum restllting from the displacement of the mcdium ) ) positive .
The strCbses in the ontside the ' snrface of ve i are to a first approximation two equal tangential pressures in all directions:\mdash ; a / ; mcnn of ) ressnl es being where the pressure of cqual in dircctions .
fforts , to the inverse of the distance , to cause tive iitics to approach from a finite distance , are the csult of thosc compo1]ents of the tion ( taken to first / tion ) which cansed ) the riation of thosc components of the vard stins wllicI canse curvature in the piling of the other components of thostraill , ) eingparalleldistortionS , tisfy the colldition of rity , do not ffeet efforts. .
If WOYC indcfinitely snlilll there would ) cffort ; thus the di of is the meter of the multip y this meter 1 ) the turc of the medinm and ) the me CSSUl C of the linm , prodnct the sity of the offort .
The tion dinishcs : the of itic .
, ( is ( the the ' the cther .
orts to cnnsc the in eqnalities respond to the , if ) the of the ) ) , The of the deltsity of the mcdinm } , of the 1 ] the nlctcr of . . . . .
of the the Cttl t of is the ) of 3 , : the of the Univ The inversion is thus complete ; matter is the absence of mass , and the effort to bring the negative inequalities together is also an effort on the mass to recede .
And since the actions are those of positive pressure there is no attraction .
the orts being the result of the virtual dimiI ) of the pressure inwards .
3 .
If instead of the ve iities as in the last article the inequalities are positive the reversed , tending to separate the inequalities , and the analysis would bc the , except that the curvature would be negative .
And it is lmportant to notice that if such positive inequalities exist the fact they repel each othel , i.e. , that they would tend to scatter through space , .
together with the evidence that the number of inequalities , either posltlve or negatll e , occupy indefinitely small space as compal'ed with the total vol11me of the medium , places any importance such posive lnequalities might ha on a footing of indefinitely less importance than that of the inequalities which are used to accnmulate by gravitation ; and thus we have an natio of ) lack of evidenee of auy GYen if such ist .
4 .
Besides the positive and negative ineqnalities , there is another inequality which may sily be conceived thal is of importance .
Whatever may ) ths cause it is ) .
conceive that a number of grains may ) removed from the medium to another , the instituting Comp q the same as the nnmber of ) senl in the othel ' .
The oomplex ities differ from the ting inequalities , inasmtlch the former involve solute deement of mass , while the tter have no cffect on the mean IJosltloIt of in the spect of involving ) solnte displacement of mass the complex i equality corl.esponds with icity .
Apart from the ccmeot of , the complex ditics d from the ting iditics .
In the complcx lalitics the parameter of the tion is llot the .
of , bnt half the tho ) ) the placed , I. The to ill the of the oduct of the ntultiplietl ) of ohune of the This cxpressed when the posive itics i finite nces : being essentially t Prof. O. Reynolds .
The complex inequality which corresponds to the separation of the positive and negative inequalities is one displacement , not two .
This fact admits of no question , and might have been recognised long ago had it not been for the , eneral assumption that positive electricity repels positive electricity , the fact being that the apparent repulsion of the positive electricities is the resulti of their respective efforts to their respective negative inequalities .
By the assumption it became apparently possible to express the potential and the electricity as rational quantities , while , as it now appears , the potential the electricity are respectively and which are both irrational .
Their product being the rational quantity which differentiated with respect to the distance is - And the mechanical explanation of these is and for the effort to revert we have\mdash ; -R .
Then for the electrostatic units we have , since , and and from the known value of , the number of grains displaced through unit distance necessary to cause the unit effort is , from hich we the ratio of the effort to reinstate the normal piling , to the eti.ort of vitation .
the number of grains in each in the complex ilequality , the distances the ; that the cHort of { ttraction bvcen tities , the each of which ) the in On of Univcrse .
instituting the complex inequality , is -one thonsand ) illions less than that of the electric effort .
5 .
Cohesion between the singular faces of the tive inequalities results from the terms which 1lot into account in the first approximation , corresponds to vitation .
These terms involve the verse d to the sixth power , and have therefore a very short rango , so corl e of cohesio1l of the singular surfaces as well snrfnce tcnsions , having no eftect when the lrfaces , or molecules , are by a very small compared with the diameter of the ular surface .
6 .
Transverse in the corresponding to the waves of light institutGd the disrnptive reversiotl of he complex equalities .
The recoil sets up a tion which is usted in ting light . .
Thns the ctch of the results has included only those for which there -ists ficicnt evidence to dmit of delinite , these tive r show the mcdinm , as defined , by purely mcchallical co1lsiderations for Iencc , ffords the ] tion possible .
If then the bstructure of the nnivcl s is mechani the not addnced is snch ] ) lccounted for of ysis .
And this is to be the case .
of proof\mdash ; Of the existencc of coincidencc ) vocn the periods of of the molecnles periods of the tves ; That dissociation of the comp( molecules proves the previous to one of ited s ) ] ; That the tions of ) molecules esnlt from the ion of tomplcx Of the of the energy of inequalities ; That th ; That is by the ) tioIt of iods : ; That ults f the ) of ; ; the Llbed oonent of Itsvcrse n the of cidcncc ults f the ] ) fi without , or with few , , ttn ] :a ittto spacc in molc fi tve s of the of the molcculcs th of th the On the of the niverse .
pace without inequalities across the surface beyond which the inequalities are in closest order ; That the aberration of light results from the absence of any appreciable resistance to the motion of the medium when passing through matter .
8 .
It may be somewhat out of the usual course to describs the results of a research before any account has been given of the method by which these results have been but in this case the regoing sketch of purely mechanical explanation of the physical evide1lce in tlJe universe by the granular medium has seemed the only introduction possible .
And even so it is not with any idea that this introduction can afford aIly preliminary insight as to the methods by which these results have been obtained .
Certain steps , as it now appears , were taken for objects quite apart from axly idea that they would be steps towards the mechanical solution of the problem of the .
The first of these steps was taken with the object of finding a mechanical explanation of the sudden change in the rate of flow of the gas in the tubes of a boiler when the velocity reached a certain limit ; perhaps this would be better described as a step towards a step .
The second step was the discovery of the tbermaI transpiration of gas together with the analytical proof of the dimensional properties of matter .
The third step was the discovery of the Cl'iterion of the two nlanners of motion of fluids , ib was only on taking the fourth step , namely , the study of the action of sand , which evealed dilatancy the ruling property of all granular mediaS which directed attention to the bility of mechanical explanation of gravitation .
spitc of the apparent possibility all attempts to effect the necess analysis failed at the time .
was , ever , iifth step : the of the ancdysis viscons detcrmination of the criterion which lcd to the ition of the possibility of the.nnalytical ration of the motion of a fltlid into mean varylng motion , and ve motion ] ] without momentum ; this suggested the possibility the medium of spnce might be , the grains being in tive motion , and at the same time being subject to mean motion .
And this has provod to be the case .
At it became evident it was not to cked by method short of the general equations of a tive systenl * ' llanchcstcr Lit. Phil. lb7 , 1 ) .
7 .
Phil. Trans 1879 .
'Phil .
Trans , ' 1883 . .
Mag 'Phil .
Trans ?
Strncture of Pl starting from the very first principles ; and it is from such study that this purely account of the physied evidence has been obtained .
Micro-crystalline Structure of Plati]]um.\ldquo ; THOIIAS DREWS , F.B.S. , October November 28 , 1901 .
The crystalline structur ' of ) latinum does not appear to have been studied , although it forms an interesting subject for investigation .
A small ingot of pnre platinum was obtained for the experiments .
A section was cnb therefrom and machined to ) inch and inch in .
The section was theIl carefully polished and etched in of the following strength:\mdash ; 4 parts of hydrochloric acid .
1 part of nitric acid .
When the polished micro-section immersed in the -regia solution in the cold , no solvent action lrred , although the metal was exposed for considerable time in The temperature of the solution WclS then raised to boiling point , which it xined for 15 scconds , ) it apparently no visil ) the tinnm , scol tnined b microscopical examination , tfter h previously washed the section with water and pure alcohol .
The etching proccss the exposed for a further period of 30 but fter microscopical of the of the it fonnd even this uxposul.e hnd not ctotily developed strncturo in the The etching ocess ) ( the micro-scction exposed for cl1tothel 15 seconds to tho ] ) egia solution above descl.il ) .
This ) ) a ) lino nctnrc , thongh not a onghly .
Nhe miclo-section of gain c to ction of iling ctqntt reg of in of tnre ottl } large ] ) also ho ) ) innte nlcnt hich is ill dlitlC h of in nsvcl sc secti 1 of Fig. 2 bhowb , of 120 oters , the structurc as in scctio or method of tion .
This 11lit -bection the

