]\gt ; The experiments , which have been of a very extended character , were made , during 1881-1883 , in the Laboratory of the University of Tokio , Japan , with the help of Japanese students .
Messrs. Fujisawa , Tanakadate , Tanaka , and Sakai , to whom the author is intiebted for much valuable assistance .
results have been .
almost without exception , reduced to absolute measure , and are the presented graphically in curves which accompany the paper .
II .
" " On certain Definite Integrals .
No. 12 By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.B.S. Received December 8 , 1884 .
The following theorem must be implicitly known , although I have never seen it in print:\mdash ; Let Then where the limits of the first integral , and consequently those of the second , are given by an equation of limits , and is a well-known constant .
Now let and let the expression break up into three linear factors , so that , which will subject the constants , \amp ; c. , to three conditions .
Then we have where are , integers , a function of , \amp ; c. , which is different for each term , and .
Thelimits of the integral are given by the equation 1885 .
] On certain Definite Integrals .
Let be the sum of the three cubes which implies one condition between the constants , and .
Then we have where other things being the same , the limits are determined by the equation It is scarcely necessary to point out that these estigations may be much extended when the radical sign is different , when the algebraica ] function under it is of a higher degree , and when there are more than three variables .
I enter now on a different subject .
In a partial differential equation substitute for ( u ) a series of which the general term is .
Then if this series satisfies the equation , term by term , we have an ] braical , whence , and the equation is satisfied by an infinite series of the form .
Now suppose to be expressed in the form , then the series is transformed into .
where A , \amp ; c. , are arbitrary constants .
Since the number of these constants is infinite , we write this ( afler Poisson As an example , take the equation . . .
Hence if be a specimen term , we have , substituting for . . .
, whence we have Hence we have to reduce . . .
to the form .
This is easily done , for the function is equivalent to we have and Hence we see that the function can be reduced to the form Now if . . . .
and consequently we have , if we put , . . . . . . . . . . . .
1885 .
] Force Fnnction in Crystals .
It will be seen at once that this is an extension of Poisson 's solution of the equation .
There is only one arbitrary function in my solution , and only one in Poisson 's , as thus treated .
But he has given one with two arbitrary functions , and I believe a similar investigation would apply to my general equations if the equation , . .
were solved with regard to , and thus found in terms of III .
" " The Force Function in Crystals By ALFRED EINHORN , Ph. D. Communicated by G. MATTHEY , F.R.S. Received November 27 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) The first part of the paper which appears at present restricts itself to the consideration of the Tesseral , Tetragonal , and Rhombic systems .
By means of a well founded assumption in regard to the stress-distribution in crystals of the above systems , the equilibrium conditions are deduced which further involve that the boundary of the configuration must either be plane or spherical .
It also appears that the statical conditions of the agency which causes crystallisation are the same as those so well investigated for gravitation and electricity .
The paper is divided into three chapters .
Tho first chapter treats of the " " Foundation of the Assumption The assumption is that the stress upon any particle can only be transmitted in six directionlines respectively at right Ilgles in pairs to the three crystallographic axes\mdash ; it is a consequence of the internal structure which is shown to be analogous to that of an ordinary cannon-ball pile by means of the cleavage properties , the external form and inertia relations of crysbals .
The second chapter\mdash ; " " Derivation of the Force Function\ldquo ; \mdash ; applies the three general differential equilibrium equations of an elasbic solid subject to internal forces to the stated stress-distribution .
In order to effect this it was necessary to deduce some peculiarities of the force function in a system of uniform density in equilibrium , and sub*iect to internal forces when referred to the principal axes of inertia through the mass centre .
The character of the attracting agency here becomes evident .
The third heading , " " Determination of the Boundary Under this VOL. XXXVIII .

