F 8 Tab. I. 10 ~ Transact No97 I ~AG9 B BCN 1 D3 ER LK GEF 2 HH Qd 56 4a Kg C KLP TS O CBehf The Figures of some of Mr. Leewenhoecks Microscopical Observations , formerly publish't ( in Numb.94 .
p. 6037.6038 .
) together with their Explication .
THis Curious observer , having been desired by the Publisher , since his first Communications , already printed in these Papers , that , for further satisfaction , he would please to transmit the Figures of what he had so well observed , and he having not only very obligingly complied with that desire , but also added New Observations ; we thought our selves bound to do him right in publishing both the Figures of his former Communications , and his Additions thereunto ; though for this time we must content our selves only with the former of these , reserving the latter for another opportunity .
And in the Explication of these Figures we shall here give you in English , what the observer sent us in Dutch .
See TA B. I. IN Fig. 1 .
AB is the great Sting , or rather the Sheath or Case of the Bee , out of which were taken the two Stings ( for , that the Bee hath two , this observer formerly acquainted us with ; ) E is the cavity of the sheath , in which the two stings , by and by to be described , lye ; like a quill pulled out of a fowl 's wing , and of that cut off a third part in length , and by its sides bent a little inwards towards E. D is the thickness of the Case beneath : And about DA the two Stings show themselves , each in a place by it self ; which I have seen my self , when I broke this thick part of the Sheath in pieces .
In Fig. 2 .
HI is part of the Sting taken out of the Sheath A B , which appears a little side ways ; whence it is , that the crooks or forks KK do not show so big nor sharp , as indeed they are .
L is the back of the sting without forks ; which side or back is almost as broad as one of the sides of the sting , when the crooks appear .
In Fig. 3 .
MN is the whole Sting , taken also out of the Sheath AB in Fig.1 , and with its back , which is without forks ( as hath been shown in Fig. 2 .
by L , ) turned to the Eye .
Here the crooks show themselves , ( though turned from theEye ) through the Sting , as appears by R. The upper part of the Sting NQ is closed round about , and hollow within ; and the lower part QS is open .
SM is a part of the broken sinew , which is very near as long as the whole sting ; and when it can be taken whole out of the body , it contracts it self into the shape of a half Moon , and appears of the colour of a Tortoise-shell , as also doth the Sting it self .
OP is the body fastned to the Sting , and placed in the thicker part of the Case DCA ( in the first Figure ) to wit , S about A , and T towards D. In Fig. 4 .
abc are both the Stings , as they lye together before , close against the sheath ; yet is one of them a little higher than the other : And forasmuch as at a there is yet seen a little of the sheath , here both the stings seem to be one , furnish't on both sides with crooks .
In Fig. 5 .
edgfh are both the Stings , in part out of their Sheath ; yet doth the sting edh stand a little higher out of the case than the sting gf h. Thus have I found them to lye in their sheath , when they are at rest .
In Fig. 6 .
Two stings , standing also a little out of the sheath .
As to the motion of these Stings , I conceive it thus to be made : First , the Bee draws her sheath , together with its stings out of the body , and endeavours to thrust it as far as she can into the body she will sting , together with one of the stings , which at that time she draws out of the case : which sting when she is drawing back again , but it not being able , by reason of the crooks , to return , she pulls the sheath and the other sting deeper into the body .
Now it is that she uses her other sting , which she then thrusts also into the body as deep as she can , and then endeavours to pull that back also ; by which pulling back she thrusts her sheath and first sting yet deeper into the body : And this she continues so long till she gets both the stings and the sheath , as far as to the thick part of the sheath , into the body ; which done , the stings need no more motion out of the sheath , when the body of the sting ( in Fig. 3 .
) OTP in the thickness of the sheath CDA ( in Fig. I. ) can move from C to D. And so much for the Stings of the Bee .
Let us now see how our Observer explains his Figures , representing the several artus or limbs , he hath taken notice of about the Head of a Bee ; which were also briefly mentioned in the aforesaid Numb. 94 .
See then the same TABLE I. Fig. 7 .
where LDABC is one of the two small limbs , which the Bee hath on the fore-part of her Head , and which he calls Arms , wherewith he judges she makes her Hony-combs , each furnish't with three peculiar joints , as at D , A , B. In Fig. 8 .
OF is one of the two small limbs , which the Bee hath likewise on the fore-part of her Head , by him called Scrapers , by the help of which , he conceives , she scrapes the wax from flowers .
In Fig. 9 .
GH is the small limb , which is also placed before on her head , and is by him called the Wiper , wherewith he conjectures she wipes off the Honey from the flowers .
Fig. 10 .
KN represents the Scraper of a wild Bee , which he exhibits here with the rest , because it is of a different make from the Scraper of a tame Bee , above in Fig. 8 .
The remainder of this Authors Observations , which are chiefly about the Structure of Plants , and the contrivance of Nature to make them shoot and grow upwards , we must refer to another Month ; being obliged to employ the rest of this Tract in publishing some Letters that have been exchanged between two Eminent Mathematicians about a considerable Optic Problem of Alhazen ; as also in giving an account , according to our custom , of some new Philosophical Books , lately come out of the Press .

