An Account of the Discovery of a mass of native Iron in Brasil .
By A. F. Mornay , Esq. In a Letter to William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read May 16 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 270 .
] This mass was first discovered in the year 1784 by a person of the name of Bernardino da Mota Botelho , while looking after his cattle ; 71dJ in consequence of the account he gave , the Governor-General of the province ordered it to be brought dowIn to Bahia .
A stout waggon or truck was conveyed to the spot ; and after three days ' labour , the mass was lifted upon it , and by the force of forty pair of oxen was removed about a hundred yards , as far as the bed of a neighbouring rivulet , but there relinquished .
And there it was found again by Mr. Mornay in January 1811 ; but the river was at that time quite dry , and frequently is so .
The mass is about seven feet in length , its breadth four , with a thickness of about two feet .
Its form is very irregular , with various cavities , especially on the under side ; but the author estimated its capacity on the spot to be full twenty-eight cubic feet ; and hence the weight is conceived to be about 14,000 pounds .
Its colour is that of a dark chesnut , rather glossy on the top and sides ; on its underside it is covered with a crust of oxide in thick flakes .
In some of the smaller cavities were imbedded quartz pebbles , too large to be taken out without being broken .
The block in situ appeared to be highly magnetic , having its north pole lying in a N.E. direction ; but the fragments separated from it were not found by Mr. Mornay to possess magnetic poles .
In detaching these fragments he experienced very considerable difficulty , although aided in some measure by a crystalline texture , which gave direction to the fractures , and was visible in all the specimens he could obtain with a sledge-hammer carried for that purpose .
Having dissolved a small portion of this iron , and examined the *solution by such re-agents as he happened to possess , he thought that he discovered the presence of nickel , but very doubtfully , and in very small quantity .
He also made a similar examination of some fragments from a bed of oxide found where the mass had been *originally discovered , and with a similar result as to an apparent trace of nickel .
The surface of the country was at this spot covered with a coarse gravel to the depth of ten or fifteen feet above the level of the rock of granite , which in general prevails .
The latitude of the place was estimated by Mr. Mornay to be 100 20 ' S. , and the longitude about 33 ' 15 " W. of Bahia .
To the southward were found prismatic fragments , and balls from a few inches to nearly three feet in diameter , supposed to be basalt ; and beyond these , at the distance of forty leagues , a range of sandstone hills , from which there extends a sandy plain with occasional elevations , all about twenty fathoms in height , as if they were the remains of some more elevated plain , of which certain parts were more durable from a cement of iron that appears in the beds of most of them .
A peculiar aspect is also given to this plain by other smaller hillocks , which are very numerous , and are the nests of the white ants : these are conical in their outline , but almost invariably elliptic at their base .
The soil of the valleys is observed to be impregnated with seasalt , which the inhabitants wash out for their own consumption ; but it is very impure , from a mixture of bitter purgative salt along with it .
There are here many warm springs , of which several are as much as 8 ?
above the surrounding atmosphere ; and one of them was at 90 ?
, while the temperature of the air was only 73 ? .
Among the vegetable productions of this country observed by Mr. Mornay , is one very remarkable for the light which it yields when cut .
It is described as a climbing plant , destitute of leaves , and without thorns .
It contains a milky juice , which exudes as soon as the plant is wounded , and appears luminous for several seconds .
This juice is extremely acrid , so as to blister the skin , even of quadrupeds , to which it is applied .
It becomes viscid by drying , and turns of a greenish-yellow colour , appearing to be a gum-resin .
It is conjectured that this plant may be an Euphorbium ; but as the author had not the good fortune to find it in flower , he had not the means of learning with certainty to which tribe of plants it may belong .

