553 The Transit of Ions in the Electric Arc. By A. A. Campbell Swin ton .
( Communicated by the Hon. C. A. Parsons , C.B. , F.R.S. Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read November 16 , 1905 .
) According to the most modern view , as enunciated by Professor J. J. Thomson in one of his recent works , * the phenomenon known as the Electric Arc is explained on the assumption that the positive and negative electrodes emit respectively positively and negatively electrified corpuscles or ions , which , under the influence of electric repulsion , travel across the space occupied by the arc and bombard the electrode opposite to the one from which they have been emitted .
It is further supposed that the electric current is itself conveyed by these ions , and that the high temperature of the electrodes is produced by their bombardment .
About a year ago it occurred to the writer that it should be possible to test the correctness of , at any rate , some portion of this theory by deflecting\#151 ; by means of a magnet\#151 ; either the positive or the negative ions into a Faraday cylinder placed with its aperture just touching the centre of the arc , in a manner somewhat similar to that adopted by Perrin , f for demonstrating the electric charge carried by cathode rays .
The experiment was tried , but it was found that no definite results could be obtained , owing to the erratic behaviour of the arc , which proved very unmanageable , and preferred to divide itself into two arcs between the carbon electrodes and the exterior of the Faraday cylinder , which was rapidly destroyed by fusion .
More recently the writer has made the experiment again in a somewhat modified form , and has obtained results which appear to prove conclusively that the theory , as above described , is correct , and that positively and negatively charged carriers do actually travel from the positive and negative electrodes respectively along the arc in opposite directions , and do bombard the opposite electrodes .
The apparatus is shown in section in fig. 1 , in which " A " and " B " are two electrodes of ordinary arc-lamp carbon .
The upper electrode , " A , " is fixed rigidly in one end of the fixed brass tube , " C , " while the lower electrode , " B , " is held in a similar tube having a sliding arrangement at " D , " whereby it can be slightly moved so as to bring the carbons into contact for the purpose of striking the arc .
* ' Conduction of Electricity through Gases , ' 1903 .
t 'Comptes Rendus , ' vol. 121 , p. 1130 , 1895 .
Mr. A. A. Campbell Swinton .
[ Oct. 24 , A small hole is pierced axially through the upper electrode , and immediately behind this aperture is fixed the insulated Faraday cylinder , " E , " which has its aperture in line with , and facing , the aperture in the electrode .
By means of an msulated brass rod , " F , " and the conductors , \#166 ; * \#166 ; r ; * c .
*\#166 ; \gt ; *- . .
\#166 ; .
' .
Enlarged Section FIG.2 .
Section fig. x. " Gr " and " H , " any difference of potential between the Faraday cylinder and the upper electrode\#151 ; which , with the brass tube , " C , " completely encloses the cylinder\#151 ; can be measured by means of the mirror galvanometer , " J. " Fig. 2 shows an enlarged section of the Faraday cylinder and the pierced electrode .
The Transit of Ions in the Electric Arc. 1905 .
] Current for the experiments was obtained from the 200-volt continuous-current public supply , resistances being inserted in the circuit so as to keep the current down to about 3 amperes with some 50 volts across the arc .
The first experiments were made with the apparatus in air at ordinary atmospheric pressure .
Under these conditions no results were obtained .
Having regard to the small velocity that the ions could have under the comparatively small potential difference across the arc , the considerable distance the ions would have to travel in order to enter the Faraday cylinder , and the density of the air at ordinary atmospheric pressure , this was to be expected.* The apparatus was next enclosed in the glass tube , " K , " with rubber stoppers , " L , " at the ends , the moving parts being rendered air-tight by the rubber tubes , " M. " By means of the tube , " FT , " the whole was connected to a mechanical air-pump capable of giving moderate degrees of vacuum .
With a very small degree of exhaustion\#151 ; about half an atmosphere\#151 ; it was found that if " A " were made the positive and " B " the negative electrode , immediately the arc was started a positive electric current , passing from " A " to the Faraday cylinder , and showing that the latter had become negatively charged , was indicated by the galvanometer .
As the exhaustion proceeded , this current was found to increase , and at a still moderate degree of exhaustion , on reversing the current in the arc , and making " A " negative and " B " positive , it was found that the positive current , through the galvanometer , passed from the Faraday cylinder to " A , " showing that the cylinder was positively charged .
In each case these results were obtained with degrees of exhaustion at which the arc still retained its normal characteristics , while the fact that the effects were only produced when the arc played on the upper electrode so as to cover the aperture , no deflection of the galvanometer taking place when the arc was deflected by means of a magnet , so as not to cover the aperture , showed very clearly that the electrification of the Faraday cylinder was due to ions passing from the arc through the aperture .
This was also proved by plugging the aperture in the electrode with a small piece of carbon .
When so plugged , no deflection of the galvanometer could be obtained .
Whether the electrode " B " were made positive or negative , it was found that the galvanometer deflections increased considerably with the degree of exhaustion , while , at any given degree of exhaustion , a considerably * Since this paper was communicated the writer has succeeded , by employing larger arcs of from 10 to 12 amperes , and by slightly enlarging the aperture in the upper electrode , to obtain all the results described in air at ordinary atmospheric pressure .
VOL. LX XVI , \#151 ; A. 2 Q Drs. R B. Denison and B. D. Steel .
[ Oct. 14 , larger deflection was obtained when " B " was made negative than when it was made positive .
These results correspond with the known fact that negative ions have a greater velocity than positive ions .
As was to be expected , having regard to the unstable nature of the arc , the galvanometer deflections were not very steady .
They were , however , invariably in the directions indicated , according as the polarity of the electrodes was transposed , and endured as long as the arc covered the aperture in the upper electrode .
The writer is indebted to Mr. J. C. M. Stanton and Mr. R.C. Pierce for their skilful assistance in carrying out the above experiments .
The Accurate Measurement of Ionic Velocities .
By R. B. Denison , M.Sc .
, Ph. D. , and B. D. Steel , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Sir William Ramsay , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received October 14 , \#151 ; Read November 16 , 1905 .
) ( Abstract .
) The value of the direct method of measuring ionic velocities has been seriously diminished in the past by the necessity of using gelatine solutions in the measuring apparatus , and by the restriction of the method to more concentrated solutions .
The authors have succeeded in devising an apparatus in which it is possible to compare and measure the velocities of the ions of a given salt without using gelatine or other partitions during the actual experiment ; and they have also succeeded in extending the method to the measurement of dilute solutions .
The apparatus consists of two reservoirs , each supplied with a special electrode vessel , and of a measuring-tube of known cross-section , in which the solution to be measured is placed .
One of the reservoirs contains a solution of a salt which has a slower cation than that to be measured , and the other a solution of a salt with a slower anion than that to be measured .
When a current is passed in the proper direction through such a system , an electrolytic margin of constant velocity is formed , provided certain conditions are fulfilled .
These conditions have been already described.* The measuring tube is provided at each end with a parchment-paper partition , which facilitates the formation of a sharp electrolytic margin between the indicator * Masson , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1899 , p. 331 ; Steel , A , 1902 , p. 105 .

