]\gt ; 1876 .
] the Skull in the Urodelous Amphibia .
to carry.the head , an imperfect vertebra with a broad fore end : in the adult ( Spelerpes , Triton ) this joint has coalesced with the head-carrying vertebra , and forms its odontoid process it then resembles the true odontoid process of an ox or sheep .
I cannot from coupling the facts above given with another , mely , that the " " hypoglossal\ldquo ; is a spinal nerve in these and other Ichthyopsida .
That the fore end of the notochord should vary in ths cranium of different types of is not to be wondsred at ; the two evanescent vertebral rudimemts in the hind cranium of the Urodeles and the joint may be set ower against what I have lately out in the Selachians .
In the Sharks the cartilage on each side of the notochord in the neck ( itself ensheathed in cartilage ) is some time before it breaks up into the moieties of centra , and these do not correspond in number with the neural arches .
In the Rays we have a similar state of things ; but I cannot discoYer any segmentation of the cervical parachordal tracts , eyen in young unhatched skates that have acquired their final form .
In this very imperfect abstract I have made mention of those things that produced the ttest effect upon my own mind , not caring so much for order as for stiveness .
A true theory of the skull does not yet exist ; it draws near , however , to the time of its delivery .
November 30 , 1876 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
General Smythe , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of X245 carried from the precedin year , amount to .
lld .
; and that the total expenditure in the same period amounts to , leaving a balance at the Bankers ' of and .
lld .
in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
Anmversary Meeting .
[ Nov. The Secrctary road the following Lists:\mdash ; Fellows deceased since Anmversary .
On the Home List .
John Joseph Bennett , .
Edmund Alexallder Parkes , M.D. Rev. Joseph Bosworth , D.D. JLenry Wyldborc Rumsey , M.D. William Sands Cox .
Georgc Poulett Scrope , De Morgan , F.R. .
George Augustus rederick Crles Charles Enderby , F.L.S. lIolroyd , of Sheffield .
Sir Henry Percy Gordon , Shuckburgh , Bart. Johu FIigginbottom , F.R.C.S. rancis Sibson , M.D. Charles Holland , M.D. Philip lIeJlry , EarlStanhope , D.C.L. Sir William Kaye , K.C.S.I. Licut.-Col .
nder Sbrange .
Colonel Sir Le Couteur .
Rev. Thomas Smith Turnbull , M.A. George William , Lord Lyttelton , John Webster , M.D. D.C.L. Rev. John Wilson , D.D. On List .
Adolphe The'odore BrongDiart .
Chlistian Gottfried enberg .
of Title . .
Benjamiu Disl to Earl of Viscount Walden to } of ceddalc .
elected since the lnst Henry Austin Bruce , Lord rrier , ] } , ] dare .
Col. .
Lanc dc Wiyeleslie Abney , Prof. Alfred IIcnry R.E. Bobcrt dwin I ) Prof. lIenry Edward , Charles drum , .S .
Ph. D. vnrd J Rev. Willinm B. illialn linthcrford , M.D. F.G.S. The James Oroll , F.R.S.E. Right Hon. Dis- obert S inhoc , F.B.G.S. raeli , D.C.L. .
Thomas ) Edwin Dunkin , Sec. II .
A.S. Ph. D. Prof. John Eric Erichsen , F.R.C.S. The President then ddressed the Soeicty follo ] } 1876 .
] President 's Address .
TIIE of the Royal flociety the year ending this presents no falling off in the value interest of the comlnunicafions ) rought before our meetings , $LS compared with prcvious , ttlld indeed sses them in nnmber and extcnt of publicaliollS , in demands on the time of your Council .
been dled upon more lently than ever to aid in boiving effect to those efforts for the ancement of tnral 1 hich , iginating in cJlterprise or in the Councils of the , havo ) the year as a one in the ory of scicnce .
3cfore , to the which his GmCnt iolves , I hnvo to dischargc tho ays painful of cnlling to llemory the nnmes of the most distinguished of our Fellows died fho ivcrsary .
In Science we lost ] nlpbcll De , Dr. .
Poulet Scrope , Dr. Sibso ] ] , nnd .-Col .
letters and public ices , the liev .
Dr. orth , ] hope , and the , Rev. Dr. the names of hc botanist Bronglliart and the veteran .
from the list of eign JMembers .
As the pnrt by you 'll Council in the labours of the cxpired , I it to be my duty , it is , indeed , my pleasure , to inform , so the lilnits of Address will { dmit , of the of those the more so , as v'ithout this ) it would not be to make you acquainted in a way commensurate ith their with the scientific services of Council as contradistinguished from their rent duties .
As anticipated mAddress of last year , pplication h been mnde io the ensury for to cover the cost of printin the decade of logue of tific Ppcrs , now th 100,000 titles ; I having to nnonnce that tion acceded to ill the spirit that in hich of the Trensury , duriug ] , placed sum otes to defray the printing the first six volumes .
Tho valuc of this becomcs more of time ; and you will bc glnd to learn the conioJl of { his from yettl .
to yeal ' has been ordered by of the Society 's ork .
As you are , the expenditure for his -ork nppcars in our nnnual -sheet .
a recommeJldntion by the Library ComJnittee , your Council [ fered custody .
collection of ] .
to the Office under oIls , the nnscript s hich binding should be bound , and made of ollcction .
The Secretary of State in Council htlS i ) the ofler with its Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. conditions ; at a fitting oortit the colleclion will be transferred to a locality hcre it will be iu competent hands and be readily accessible to scholars .
ve been made for the publication of the Reports of the ists sent to and erguelen Islands in a separate fol.m , illustrations ; and a of X100 from the tion has been made aid of .
The nical specimens been , and are being distributed to the Ielbaria of Kew , of the ritish ]fuseum , off the ]otttnic Gardens , and others .
complete set of the zoological collections will o deposited in the British IIuscum , and remaindcr ibuted among the bIuseum of the Royal College of Surgeons of London and the JlTnsenms of dinburgh , Dublin , , and The eport on the results of the " " Eclipse\ldquo ; Expedition has been by JlIr .
] , and is more tisfactory than could been anticipated , ( the conditions )revailed during when hole the time the obscrvahous being made .
It appears thal , the light which photographs the prominences does not come from , but most from calcinm , while the photograph of the with tho prismatto mcra shows that its chicf .
is from the hydrogen .
The complete account of the appear our ' Proccedings ' For the financial stak the Socicty I must efer you to the sheet prepared by now in hands .
It bhows resources been by eipt of tho bequest , X878 .
A further will 0CCU1 ' the end of the year bythe of the X2000 Consols } entitled under the ill of , R. C. rril .
BQsidc these , an addimado to Trust unds by } Jement of the longpending quc@tion of the bequcst .
The arded to ) ) ns , the ) of fter pment of duty and legal chargcs , httS been sted , as sectl in our bhect , in -ceat .
fock .
1876 .
] President 's Address .
841 ( more than taken at Ely , from 1863-1874 , under the late Canon Selwyn 's instructions .
You will share my feeling of pleasure when I inform you of the deposit in the hands of our Treasurer of a munificent contribution , X6000 , to be devoted to the aid of scientific research , by .
homas Phillips Jodrell , the founder of the Chair of Animal Physiology in University College , London , and donor of the Laboratory of Research to the Establishment at Kew .
in last year , Mr. Jodrell informed me by letter that it wns his wish to place at the disposal of this Society , as the one body in which all branches of British scie1lce are represented , this generous sum , to be ( principal as well as interest ) in any manner that the Society may consider most conducive , for the time being , to the encouragement among our countrymen of original research in the physical sciences\mdash ; his object being not , on the ons hand , to found a permanent endowment for the benefit of a future generation , nor , on the other , to relieye the vernment of any part of its obligations to the present , but to ascertain , as far as may be , by practicffi experiment on alimited scale , to what extent the progress of original research in the physical scisnces is retarded in this country by the want of public support engaged in it , and in what form an increased measure of such support would be most likely to promots its development .
I need hardly add that your Council , before whom I laid Mr. Jodrell 's letter at once , thankfully accepted his ofler , and appointed a Committee to consider and to report upon the best means of giving effect to his liberal views .
Before , however , the Committee had presented theil report , we were informed of the ntion of Her Majesty 's Government to increase largely the funds placed at the Society 's disposal in aid of scientific investigations , and to allow part of the increment to be devoted to the sustentation or remuneration of investigators\mdash ; thus fulfilling the main desire which Mr. Jodrell had in view in making his donation .
When I communicated the intention of the Government to Mr. Jodrell , he signified his desirs to reopen the question of the application of the X6000 , which he wished to leave in our Treasurer 's hands for his object had been to induce the Government to do what , to the surprise of every one , it had done , and not to supplement apermanent government endowment by a temporary one of his own .
Whatever might be the ultimate decision , he did not doubt that this Society would be the most competent agency for carrying it into effect ; and he suggested that the fund should be invested temporarily , and the question of its appropriation reserved until we should meet this session .
Finally , Mr. Jodrell has proposed that the gross sum should be ined in its present investment in the prospect of some want of it arising in the course of the next few years , and thnt the interest accruing in the mean time should be applied by the Society as part of our .
This was willingly Anniversary eeting .
[ Nov. cccpted , the best of your Coumcil have been presented to In lnst I by the Lord President of the Council that Her lIajesty 's Goverment had under coJlsideration the question of boiving further aid to scientific research , by increasing the Parlialtenttry grant of XI000 per annum which is administered by the Council under the tion of the Government Grant Committee in ators with apparatus and .
They proposed in future to ugment the Grant annually for five by , to vest the dministrntion of the whole in the Scicnce and Art rtment , and to itc the Society 's Council to ]ernment , as hitherto , with assistance to its .
and penditul .
, and furthel to give us the power of Ilding , in certain cases , the ymenf o personal to invcsligators .
The mication also advised that the Presidents of fifteen learned bodies in the United Kingdom should be ( members of the Government Committee , \mdash ; a ohange in its apparent than real , as the majority the Presidents specified were Fcllows of the Society .
After conferences with the Minister , the original proposal his concurrence , modiiied , and made to apply to the dditional X4000 only , the tion of the XI000 remaimng as , to be accoullted for to the Treasury , and the recommentions of the mcil v ith respect to the appropriation of the additiollal sum to bc liable to ision by the Lord sident , hose rtment the vote is , and ho must be responsible to liament for its expelldiure .
With this youl ' mcil concurred , on the ] should it the Lord President found it inndvisable to upon all yonr which , 's opinion , never happen ) , the Comlcil should have the opportunity of revising them , so that , if thonght desirable , the itcms of to which exception ecll faken 1night be ffiocated in some other There are therefore of scient research , ome of XI000 per , for the ration of your Counoil is ccountable the Treasury , and which , as herctofore , will bc appropriated to the protiding of instrnments and assistance for scientific inquirers : the other , of X4000 annunlly for five yenrs , to be applied to the aid of estigators , not only by providing instrnments and assistance , but by personnl adlowances or of money , in accordance recommcndtttions to be to the Lord President .
The constitution of this new Committee is yet settled ; but it probably consist of the existing one , together ith the olficio members as proposed .
1876 .
] President 's Address .
Before dismissing { his subject I feel it to be incumbent on me to express our obligations to His Grace the Duke of Richmond and to Lord Sandon , for the active interest they took in providing the grant , and for the liberal manner in they entered into the views of the Council in respect of its appropriation .
Two of the provisions of the Vivisection Bm called forth an earnest remonstrnnce from your Council , which was communicated by the President to the Prime Minister in June last .
These provisions were the limitation of experiments , even under anaesthetics , to such only as can be shown to contributs directly to the prolongation of human life and the alleviation of human suffiring ; and the prohibition of experiments upon dogs .
It was pointed out , in the communication to the NIinister , that , as regards both these limitations , the Bill went beyond the recommendations of the Royal Commissioners upon Vivisection for scientific purposes ; and , in respect of the first of them , it was represented that the history of physical science shows that all.the great discoveries which have contributed to the welfare of mankind have resulted from investigations pursued in the interests of pure science , without reference to their practical application , and that to this rule physiology forms no exception , since all the physiological truths which constituts the foundation of the rational practice of medic.ine have been ascertained by experiments upon living animals , conducted by persons actuated by that desire for the advancement of natural knowledge which the Boyal Society was instiluted to foster ; and it went om to say:\mdash ; " " Profoundly of the mutual dependence of ffi branches of physical science , the President and Council feel that any ] ation which arrests ths development of one is an injury to all , and they wouId lament the admission into the Statute-book of a priJlciple which is essentiaUy antagonistic to the progress of all Natural Knowledge With respect to the second provision it was urged hat , while the Bill professed to regulate experiments only , it prohibited them in the case of dogs , although the constitution of the dog is such as to render it indispensable for some of the most important problems .
The receipt of this letter was followed by Lord Beaconsfield 's comting with me on the subject , when I the opportunity of representing the views of the Council as being unalterable as to the necessity of modifying , if not of rescinding , these two provisions .
The Prime Minister promised and gave full and , as it has proved , favourable consideration to the Council 's representations ; for , the third reading of the Bill , its provisions were so modified as to no obstacle in ths way of experiments on nnimals for ] scientific purposes by properly qualified persons .
On a subsequent occasion , when time did not allow of my communicating previously with the Council , I ventured , in the of the Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 80 , Society , to leques:m audience with the Homc Sccretary , principally on the of the clanses that lilnited the king of experiments to steled ] , thus ists from their researchcs their tion travels , or their residences at -phces other ] ] in which no registered institution existed .
On this occasion I found illing enr lent to the Society 's oicc , } by of our tions , specinl now cniLble the experimenter to his escarchcs herGvcl he .
On the same I urged the confining the opel'ation of the Bill to -blooded only partial success ; the provisioJl ) hich extended to all animals WilS i curtailed , so as to pply to the only .
Lastly , a protest ngainst the clausc ' al expel .
to nsmit to the .
of Stnto delailed report of all the experiments they , and ] more s1lccessful ; for the Bill es repolts to bo made ] called by the of State .
The of Scientific ) \mdash ; In ddress of lnst year the proposed action of Ciovcrnment in refcrence to this tant object was .
with opinion of the Vicc-President of the mcil , } it might pve menns of ctll .
ing out that of the kScicncc Cissioncrs denlt ith the want of a hods of of Report , ) .
This ) a from the of Bichmo]ssed osolf , the Scientific coIUlexion n the a series of rences , siJnilar to the scctioJlal m of the British .
This lcd to that brilliant gnthering in of scientific men from tho melropolis and all of Europc ( not fewel ' than thirtyfive from Germany alone ) , { from merica , of them charged their crnlncnl s to report on the collections , to those public lectul'cs on the and apparatus by of fho most of these scientific men , imparted such 1 into the Exhibition .
Among objects so exhibited , monllting to 20,000 in vere io be of the ] or evidenccs of the gcnius of ) oportion of the eminent tiiic mcn cturers of from the of Tycho ] , the day , with collcction of the ) for tilic t adopted 1876 .
] President 's Address .
the Museums of Berlin , Florence , and Haarlem .
We contributed twentyseven articles , all of the best construction of their day , and which may be oegarded as monuments of the skill of famous makers .
They include:\mdash ; Boyle 's air-pump with double barrel , presented by himself in 1662 ; Newton 's original reflecting telescope , constructed by himself in 1671 ; Huyghens 's aerial telescope , with three object-glasses , of 122 , 170 , and 240 feet focal length , presented respectively by himself in 1691 , by Newton , and by the Rev. G. Burnet ; a large levelling-instrument used the Ordnance Survey ; two chronometers by Arnold , which were taken round the world by Capt. Cook ; Capt. Kater 's hygrometer ; Priestley 's electrical machine ; and Sir H. Davy 's experimental Safety Lamp .
The interest excited by the Exhibition is best shown on the one hand by the number of visitors , which at the end of September amounted to a quarter of a million , and on the other by the efforts made by alarge body of scientific men , who desire to see effect given to the views of the Lord President in founding a permanent Museum of this nature .
A memorial to this effect , signed by more than one hundred scientific men , has been addl.essed to the of Richmond , representing the ntages of a Museum of Scientific Apparatus , Appliances , and Objects , and of Chemical Products\mdash ; illustrating both the history and the development of Science\mdash ; which the objects now contained in the " " Patent Museum\ldquo ; should be incorporated .
Among the advantages enumerated which would accrue from such an institution , are the saving of time and labour to investigators , assisting teachers , informing constructors of philosophical instruments as to the directions in which reproductions are wanted , or in which improvements may be eflected , and possibly the lendin instruments to investigators under suitable restrictions .
With regard to the advantage of combining the objects of the Patent Museum with the general collection , it is pointed out that the value of these objects as mere subjects of a patent is very imperfectly represented by their separate exhibition , whereas it would be greatly enhanced were they placed in juxtaposition with instruments of the same nature , which , though unpatented , may be both better adapted to their purposs and of greater instructive value .
The Meteorological Office.\mdash ; In my last year 's Address I stated that the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury had appointed a Committee to inquire into the working of ths Meteorological Office , and the value of the results hitherto obtained by it , and the resuIt of this might { fford to Her Majesty 's Ministers the opportunity of dopting measures that would greatly increase the scientific efficiency and public interest of that Office .
The labours of the Treasury Committee are now comcluded .
It sat frequently during the whole of last session of Pliment , examined witnesses , scientific and practical , including the most eminent 346 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. of country whose couId be ; and a report been uP which lvill be lnid before ParliameJlt .
It ill hc answer of the Committee of this Society to a lettel .
essed to the President Council by a Committee of the easmy requesting information on the following points : .
As to the extent to which the objects indicated in the Beports presented by your President and in 1855 and 1865 for the lidance of the Office , had been attained by me of bour { tions of the Office .
2 .
fIow far they led to a ledge of the ] the wcathcr , and to the discovory of ] lieu .
3 .
How far they lcd to the colleotion of , not } ' ) rocul .
, thnt form a necessary basis establishment of new .
4 .
Should the same objects be thor pursued ?
and if so , in with of operations now in force ? .
Should change in the ramme of the operations desirable , what should their nature be ?
The Committee of Royal Society , hich consisted of Sir G. Airy , the Bev .
B. ]lfain , Profcssors Adams , Stokes , ] B. Stewart , Dr. Guy , fessrs .
De La Rue , Smyth , , and Spottiswoode , sent i11 a series of lccommcndatious to the Council that ere embodied in a letter nddressed to the Council leported that oceanic meteorolog.y had been greatly enliched by the ations mado itrd to , currents , and the , and by the ) ciions o ) tnined thercfrom , and that these contained results on ] -direetions of the most trustv orthy charncfcr , for the nse of , can bc constructed .
As regards terrestrinl number of tions for tions { for the ) of forecnsts should increased ther tinished ; and that these justified by the of three-fourths of , cnses recorded .
That daily thel -charts are to ibufed f to a sion of of lomcun a all clnsses , and are on account of greiLt utility ; ttlld , furthcr , their tion { issue are ] the of csta lishments , mineIltly worthy the support of the erJlment .
Thnt the publications of the Olficc of scrtl l to , and embrace a collection of ta not vise { able , and supply a iLSS of of ftnattlre indispens to the establishment of new } } ffl the appears to been done in ccordnnce with the tions of the Society .
As to the future of the Office , your ulcil were of opinion the rnmmc n force shonld bc ] followed ; th the hilhcrto results of oce ftJlic oations s bc brought out as as , so that the meteol.ology of ffi parts of the oceml 1@6 .
] President 's Address .
shodd be known ; that the rules followed in forecasting storms should be published for the information of future meteorologists ; that it would be advantageous to publish weekly averages of the climate of the British Isles for the use of agriculturists and collectors of statistics of health , mortality , and the distribution of disease , these averages to be printed in a form , giving the resuIts not only of the week but of the previous week , of the corresponding wesk of the foregoing year , and of the average of the corresponding weeks in the foregoing 10 years .
That the operations of the self-recording observatories should be continued as at present , until the expiration of the 12-year sun-period , after which the subject of their number and position might be advantageously reconsidered ; that special observations should once be taken for the purpose of comparing their records , ascertaining their local peculiarities , and determining such constants as would ultimately permit of a large reduction of their number ; and with regard to the eye-observing tions , recommended that their position and number should be reconsidered , with the view of obtaining a closer to the meteorological conditions of the British Isles .
More important , however , byfar , than these recommendations rehting to the collection and reduction of observations , is the expressed opinion of your Council that the most practical method of advancing meteorology is by endeavouring to place the science on firm basis , not by the accumulation and digestion of observations , but by research and and that this can only be done by the Goyernment securing the services of scientific men who can devote their time to this object .
To this end your Council recommended that the Office should be presided over by a man of the highest scientific attainments , prefernbly as sole head of the office , and if not , as chairmall of committee composed , like the present , of men eminent in science , but fewer in number\mdash ; and thnt an adequate salary should be given to the presiding head , if an or to the members of the committee , if it be retained .
Such is the substance of the recommendations of your Council ; and I have every reason to hope that they will be carried out by the Government in as liberal a spirit as were our previous tions for the of the Office in 1855 and 1865 .
Should this be the , we may expect to be applied to for suggestions as to the general or precise nature of the researches and experiments which your Council have indicated being essential for placing the science on a firm basis .
We have excellent examples of what be expected from such researches in the essays of our late Fellow , Professor niell , and in the more recent contributions to meteorological science of Sir J. Herschel , Balfour Stewart , chey , and others ; and we look to there improvements from the apphcation of the study of hydrodynamics the phenomena of light , electricity , and acoustics , and other brnnches of physical science , Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. to the elucidation of ths many unsolved problems which have so ilong ttered the estigation of the laws of climate .
ill not be thought out of ] here if I add a few remarks on the present stnte of ]lfeteorology as of the physical sciences , the progress it has reillly made , and the direction which further progress is able .
In this I been aided by ]lcral Strachey , a late member of the , who , having studied meteorology India as ell in , has kindly up a stntement of our views , and need it at my for this Address .
Without question , the chief point in which meteorology now differs from it , is the recognition of tho necessity for king into considelation the facts observed many places simulta ] leously o a large of facts observed in succession at a siIlgle locality .
This great step has been no doubt mainly due to the extellsion of the electrio , which possible the juxtaposition of observatioJlS made ovel a very large , nnd the equally dispatch to disnces of the results from the consideration of such tions , the means both of iring the vledge and of it useful .
A comparison of the feeble to the nature of the tions of barometrio recorded in Reports of the British Association for the 1843 , and chiefly due to ] .
Birt , and the beautiful synoptical charts now published in mftny countries , of which those prepared by Captain Hoffmeyer may be taLen as an example , }will indicate the great progress made in this ection .
Charts such these convey very complete information as to how chief riations of veather occur over part Europe and the United Stntes\mdash ; though ) } hy they occur is yet too little undelstood .
It is , unfortunately , still true that vel.y little has been done vards tracing out the physical causes of the changes of press of the of which thus ; but it is not to be doubted that , the now presented to students in a readily itccessible and .
shape , no is ] to bethe them ined , all events pproximately .
It is practically that the of mosp e immcdiately dependent on of temI ) eratul.e ; but no igible rol iLtion has yet been blisbed b the two , except in the lery ucst malmer .
And this iudicates the first great wnut of scientific mely , of the ments of stic fluids subjcct to of .
The dilliculties to bc rmounted i this bl.anch of mechmlics ; but alls mattained of the ill ntually form the of tilic meteorology to the test of calculation , the been in dix.ection .
1876 .
] President 's Address .
For the purpose of bl.inging one class of the observations on which a tific meteorology must based into a form suited for the application of theoretical tests such as these , the tlmo seems to supply the necess .
This method may } for objed to break up any observed series of tities r a hcnomellon , such as the or annual valiations of temturc or atmospheric essurc , other so rranged that shall be concei ) to be conscquencc of of different of iollS from the mcan value\mdash ; the of such scrics ) but once in epoch under tion , the sccoud uring t , or complcfed in the epoch , the third hrice , iu one third the ) so forth .
The arithmetical computntions for thns tions bious , Sir W. Thomson ido of his bl.other 's , Prof. J. Thomson ) proposed to construct a shall perform the calculalions ith the aid only of the proiection the from the recorded model he exhibited to the Society in the lrse of last ession , amd an account of which has been published ' l'ro ' It ell to reulalk that this of or other obSeryafionS gives no in the phenomena to causes , is ouly to be a means of them into a in they can be compared with formulae or dynaor other hypotheses .
It too long been that the arithnlanipulation of the results of meteorological observntioJl was a sufficient end to be attained ; and too often necessity for seeking the cient cuses of the has beeJl lost of .
An gethel .
useless refinement has also fi.equently been insisted upon in revations of what , in a scieJltific sense , be termed iusigllificant details ; and a holly illusory of ccuracy has been aimed at , ffi beyoJld what can in fact bc .
The COJlCC t of is , in calculntions in miLny olhers , oftcn lllissed , meltJl results exhibited no real The tion of teol.ology to be to that of the llaturnl-history scieuces to ) .
Physics the sludy of the tion ovhich on the atmosphel.e gives rise to meteoroloonomcun .
The intelligent applicatio ] of is qucstiollnbly one of the most llccessary ] ements iu the progress of science ; ftnd Profcssor 's study of the li011 of other gnses iu ation to radiaut hcnt affords ] illustration of the manner in which experimental ' to the edge r to explain tmospheric p lity of nature in the germs from hich life on the earth is stniJled , the Comp l small Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 80 , of those germs that ever come to maturity , has often been a subject of comment .
I venture to remark that a prodigal waste no less conspiouous is to be seen in the long rows of volumes on our shelves contaimng meteorological observations which doubtless contain vast numbers of scientific germs , but germs nobdestined to fructify .
It is without doubt one of the most serious difficulties that attend our efforts at progress in this scisnce to determine what records to make , what to keep , what to publish .
So long as our edge is so rudimentary , we cannot properly judge what is essential and what unimportant .
Like many other difficulties , this , I presume , must be left to time for its solution ; at all events , I shall not attempt it .
In concluding my observations on this subject , I would further impress upon all interested in it that it is to well-directed thought on the physical connexion between the many closely related atmospheric phenomena which are now so clearly presented to the student in the publications of the present day , that we must look for real progress in the science\mdash ; and that it will almost certainly be found that it is rather through an exanlination of the better-known recurrent phenomena , viewed broadly , success will be secured , than by a laborious search after deviations from what is of common occurrence .
The most important scientific incident of the year is unquestionably the return of the 'Challenger ' from her voyage round the world and three yeftrs half of persevering exploration .
It is , moreover , ome in which the Roynl Society has taken the deepest interest , having ( as the Lords of the Admiralty officially state ) originnted it , having been called upon by the Govsrnment to take a very actiye share in advising as to its organization and equipment .
The ' Challenger ' left Sheerness on the 17th of December , 1872 , and , after a voyage of 69,000 miles , arrived at Portsmouth on of May last with all her officers ( with the exception of Captain , who was called home to command a more perilous enterprise , the lateWillemoesSuhm , who died at sea ) in excellent \mdash ; their labours crowned with complete success , their collections in perfect order and preservation , and the scientific staff eager to work out the results of their long and arduous investigations .
The success of this expedition is the more grntifying , as it is the first only enterprise of its kind which has been undertaken by any nation for carrying out a thorough and purely scientific tion of the great ocennic areas , under and with full appliances .
It is impossible for any one who not taken au part both in the organization and conducb of such xpeditioJl as this of the ' Challenger , ' to estimate the number value of the factors have inly contributed to its success .
Foremost among these were the wise liberality of the Ministry , which gave orders for its outfit being 1876 .
] President 's Address .
351 complete on nll points , the and efficiency of the Naval Department , shown in the attention paid to every detail , in the choice of the ship , its stores , in the selectioJl of the Commander , its executive officers crew , in the thought b on its saing-directions .
The selection of the Scientific Staff ( consisting of Sir C. lVyville Thom- son , Mr. Wild ( Sccrctal.y ) , lfessl.s .
] , ]Moseley , and Dr. -Suhm , , and Mr. Buchanan ) , ttlld the apportioning of duties , entrusted to your Council ; the nner i which that has carried out its iustructions , merits hest \mdash ; as is , indeed , testified by the of a Boyal to its Chief , Sir C. ille Thomson .
Essential to complete success as fffi these requirements , they old heeJl wholly ailing but for another , hich no could for and ] forethought gunrnntee ; and is , concord !
The of life on pro ) erbial ; and , according to the early traditions of the ice , a philosopher afloat used to be considered as unlueky a shipmate as il a corpse .
In this case , thanLs to the admirable spirit which the Commnndel and his executive -orked the head of the Scientific Sffif his subord , I am informed harmooy reigned on board throughout the .
Anld ) of this , I may be allon ed here to to nothcr prejudice hich as ollce ( if it be not sfill ) curlcnt in the , and I ] lope the perience of both 'Challenger ' and olar ships lly to one mess-cabin only for the his officers old be ifh discipline .
The riLctice in ) these pcditions has , as I am , been attended with the ppiest results\mdash ; and this notvithstanding the addition to the mess of thnt elemellf , Before proceeding to cul.sorily at some of the unpublished l'esults obtained by the ' Challenger , ' I must direct to the mlbcr thd value of the scientific documents becll from time to tilnc homc ; for in of ) during rol .
Gss of st quite .
I to the en folio by ) -arcs his clccessor Cnpt .
omson , in of of oundings and isovherms for ffi ) from the surfncc to the botlom .
These public tions , the issue of of the late and ) rescIll 1 of hc dUliralty , of tho grentcst ) ccially , coInplete of the ] , and nbly with heir results .
It hrcc deep basins , separated by } .
Of sins , ono astcrn ) cxtonds the coasls of ' Old lVorld , ing ils sin Grcial thal of South VOL. XXV .
Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , position along the -coasts of the New World : namely , a northern one extends from lat. N. to N. , expanding greatly in the tropics ; and a southern one , commencing a few degrees to the south-eastward of the other , extends far into the Antarctic basin , of which it may be regarded as a northern prolongation .
Between the eastern and western basins a comparatively narrow belt of suboceanic highlands extends from the Arctic to the Antarctic circle along a sinuous line which , roughly speaking , occupies a mid-channel course .
Of the oceanic islands , the Azores , St. Paul 's rooks , Ascension , and d'Acunha are emerged of these hhnds .
The Islands rise out of immense depths in the N.W. basin ; ernando de Noronha Trimdad Island out of the S.W. basin ; while not more than island ( St. Helena ) is to be found throughout the whole length of the Eastern basin .
only is this discovery of great impoltance relation to the suboceanic distribution of life , but also in reference to theories of the distribution of land-animals and plants .
In the present state of our knowledge , it.disposes of all speculations as to the former existence of tlacts of now submergsd land , which , extending from the gleat continents to the ands i question , might aided the migration thither of animals and ; and it obliges us to conclude that they were peopled with liying things by the direct or indirect agency of the elements .
Did time allow , I would have directed your ttention to the discussion on Circulation oontained in these lieports\mdash ; a subject has produced , within very fow years , a library of scientific literature , in which the names of rpenter , Croll , Wyville Thomson will ever hold a high place , \mdash ; as aJso to the memoirs contributed to our ctioJlS ' and ' Proceedings ' by Thomson , Willcmoes-Suhm , Moseley , ]uchnnan , and Murray .
The as yet unitigted materials collected by the Expedition include mdings , ings , and wliJlgs at the surface , bottom , intermediate depths , from 354 stations the Atlantic , Pacific , Southern , Antarctic , and Pacific Ocei ) , and in the China Sea and , all whioh to be studied in comlexionvith simultaneous observations for the temperature , specilic griLvity , chemical composition , and movements of the ' at these stations , and with others relating to the matter covering the floor of the Sir C. Wyville Thomson informs me that , as yet , no close estimate be formed of the number of ' spec.imens fit for mounting for museumpurposes which wele collected in the deep sea ; but ho thinks that 100,000 would be well within the mark ; and this is of course exclusive of microscopic organisms .
Being collected over a vast area presentiug tively very slight tious iu physical conditions , the character of the fauna which they represent is , as might be expeoted , on the whole uniform .
the it seems to consist of multitude 8 76 .
] President 's Address .
of closely allied forms , requiring in many cases great care and skill to determine what among them should be regarded types of species , what as of one species .
In the colleclio]l of the byssiLl f and predominate ; and .
C. ille Thomsoll expects that least one half of these consists of unldescrlbed lydiscovered species\mdash ; an opinion in which he is fortified by competent judges ) } ho have inspected the collcc.tion .
Crustacen , , and are also ell represented , aro to a gl.eat exteJlt of ue forms .
Fishes numerous , for the most to tlnilies adread.v made by the of the Rev. R. } on the ishes of ]Ifadeira .
the ) ecimens have been cd in snch a ) th they can bc atod anatomicnlly and isited laborntories 011 bomd the ) , and the extcnt of the { tion of soft of sorts , readily icll a harvest aits the pers so liberal has the action of the Government lnfherto , ] lcre C bc a doubt of Sir ] Thomsou 's .
phced in ' him to of the sults of his ) cdition o scale ith a ) teuess c ith their){ of thellation .
An une opporis now him of the phenomenn of ration , tion , of the appearance , sion , tiou , and extinction of forms ging to many ol.ders the \mdash ; and this over areas so extensive they may be as , in a sense , the ents of periods .
this purpose it ppears essential that the collections should be kept ether under the eyes of the naturalists who them , until every species and liety has had attached to it ffi the details respecting its habitat conditions that were obtained when it collected ; iso ] ) liultry object of the xpcdition ill be lstrated .
It may snperfluotb to ] ) th any .
courso ould be mder the it is nof so is pro ) by the thy tlJld i during of coverv and ] ) tched f our sh to is the Cook to the present timt1 , , so to thing like the whole material been publishod .
in sollo cases been attributable to } of ; but it nor frequently been duc to he of the , which refused the of , or the means of publication , or ) Beforc lenving this subject , I must mention the of ellow , Mr. Sorby , to determine the uaturc of the Red of -bottom , Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 of which we ) heard so much .
1Ie informs mc that , though any conclusions now to bc from his observations must be provisiollal , it is to many specimens of the Eed Clay so gous the Gault must originally have been , thab those specimens ight almost bc looked upon as being as truly modern Gault as the -oozc is modcrn Ch .
In the the grains of fine chiefly quartz derived from the decomposition of schistose ] .
But the P$cific Atlantic muds from depths contain , besides quartzments , others of glassy pulnicc , other volcanic products ; and .
Sorby has not been able to detect iLny d between the mass of the Gault and other rocks composed of very nlinutc nulcs likc those derived from felspar or other hich , in a similar miLnner , easily undergo chemical decomposition .
Independent , , of the presence organic remains , and of the modern products , there is little or no difference between the -Clay deposits some of the earlier stratified rocks .
The returJl of the Polar Expedition is too recent to of any ccurate estimate being formed of the value of the scientiiic faots which it has ccumulated .
Captain ares , in his Beport to tho Admiralty , bears nrm testimony to the ices ( both as collector and of Feilden , who as selected by your Council as to the Expedition ; and good reason to believe his to Arctio Geology and tural History generally will prove to be the most important obtained from the hest latitudos of the globe .
From a with which , it ilppeals that there are no of a cessation of niulal o egetable life up to the furthest ched by the and mammals 0CCU1 the shores of the Polar basin in lnt .
; and the sea itself abounds in Crustacea ] , which tter erc collecfed in fresh ohiefly on the recently raised benches .
Of the Lemmin and its enemy , tho mine , erc found on the orth Greenland coasf , between the parfdlels of twenty or thirty specics of pl , including the beautiful is Pallasii , flayelfaris , and } ' .
The absemce of from Smith 's a orthy : we may { ssumo that the hich is { dmost extirpated in the Spitsbergen seas , and hich $ViLS traced up and to inco 's Inlet , is now hcmnled i by the polar ice of Bank 's Straits ) 's Channel , did not empt to fncc the pack of 's .
Birds , 1 } iu ]3alCn 's scarce in tho Sound , ing to the cold tidcs of ] atel ' iu tho ' basin ; llGlortheless hc , the ] , and he iled S Gnll breed on he hores of thnt ) 1876 .
] President 's Address .
355 Insects were found at the extreme point reached by Capfaim Feilden ; and , of the lower orders , Echinodermata were very common .
Among these is a beautiful Comatula , identical with one dredged up in by Captain Buchan , in the 'Dorothea , ' in 1818 , and afterwards by Franklin in the ' Trent , ' in lat. .
As the latter localities are on the coast of Greenland , and this species not been found previously in any part of the American Polar sea , another reason is suggested for concluding that Greenland is an island , and that the coast traced to the eastward by the sledge expedition of the 'Alert ' is truly its northern one .
The geology of Smith 's Sound is very instructive , Captain Feilden having succeeded in laying down its outline , at any rate , and connecting its rocks with some of those of the ] regions to the south .
Gneiss , syenite , and hornblende rocks extended from Cape Isabella , in lat. , to Hayes Sound , in lat. , whers they were overlain by rine beds of Silurian , full of fossils , dipping E. and W. , and reaching northward to Cape Collinsom .
On the Greenland coast , in Bessel 's Bay and Petermann Ford , the ocks are .
Onthe opposite coast , in Discovery Bay , these fossiliferous rocks , if they ever existed , must have been denuded , are replaced by azoic slates and limestones presumably answering to the Silurians of American geoIogists .
This formation was traced to lat. , where an anticlinal ridge occurs , the northern strata of which dip to N.N.E. , and are , in lat. , oyerlain by Carboniferous Miocene strata were discovered near Discovery Bay , in lat. including a 20-foot seam of coal rich in fossil plants .
Postpliocene beds full of shells , and sometimes 400 feet thick , filled up the valleys , and overlay hills 100 feet high ; these contained bones of the musk-ox and seal , together with drift wood , all deposited as they might have been under existing conditions .
Drift pine wood abounds on the shores of the Polar Sea , no doubt drifted from the Siberian riyers ; and bircb wood occurred in the Soumd .
Evidence of a recent of climate met with in the numl ) of deserted Eskimo settlements , hich were traced nearly as far north the parallel of .
One of the houses was roofed with large whales ' ribs .
I have now , Gentlemen , concluded my endeavour to bring under your notice some of the principal labours of your Council during the past yenr , together with their immediate and prospective results .
I should have liked , had time permitted , to direct your attention to a few of the more interesting papers and experiments have been brought before us at our evening meetings , to point out to you thnt in the consideration and prep ration of papers for publication a burden is laid on your Secretaries and that fering body the Committee of Papers .
It would perhaps surprise you could you be made aware of the amount and importance of the work connected with papers which is performed by Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , your officers and the Committee .
It is work which only in its rssults comcs before eye of the Society ; but I think you will agree with me that those results show how well and faithfully the work has been done .
On the motion of .
Jamcs Aldelson , seconded by .
Francis Galton , it was That the thanks of the Society be returned to the President for his Address , and that he be requested to allow it to be printed The President then to the presentation of the Medals :\mdash ; The Copley ]}fedal has boen to Professor Claude Bernard , .
Mem. R.S. , for his numerous contributions to the science of Physiology .
It fell to the lot of Claude to , at about the same time , two discovcries of which it bo said that they have proved of physiologicnl inlerest than any discoveries which have been made by same man duling the last five-and-twenty years .
Not only wele the discovery of the function of the liver , and of vaso-motor nerves , of prime tance at the time at which they were made , but their on the progress of physiology has been such that it would bo difficult to overrate it .
When , in 1853 , Bernard published his wol.k ' un Nouvelle Fonction du Foie , ' the proof afforded by Liebig ind othels are able to form ffit out of the starch and of their food , still ) ith vable tcity to the 1 icw that the gleat distinction even ] the fnct.that the actions of the former sively destructive , and of latter \ldquo ; Bernard that the hcpatic cclls able , like the vegetable cells , to cttlre and deposit in a veritable , the } its ; the of the economy could no be denied , and the nlinds of physiologists became open to the fact in aninffi nutrition they must be for the existence of other processcs than those of simple destructive oxidation .
subscquent discovcry in other and foetal tissues made this still more clcar .
flow benefioial this ay of crl.oneous theoreticnl conccptions ] is } } by the rapid progress } hich the physiology of ition has during the last qunrter of The discovery of has nlso another lence of a cl ractcr .
erned too much by le idea of the animal body composed of organs with special functions , ysiologists contcnt with the view that the livel .
} an whose function is to ecrete , and that when it had sccreted a of bile ils donc .
The livel stlnc tinlc was secreted , ) of an reutly wholly 1876 .
] President 's Address .
857 kind be , ing carried on , put an end to these narrow conceptions .
It felt once thnt new path of inquiry had been opened up the study , not only hcpntic , but of all other tissues\mdash ; a path which even yet see only the Though such theoreticnl considerations the foregoing stamp the discovery of glycogen as epoch-m in the history of phyiology , its inlmediate and practical fruits ]lot inconsidel .
It and tho subqt by thnt puncturc of the fourth ventl.icle produccs a diabetes , at llCC threw a light 0YG the subject of disease ; if ncither the lnbours of nnrd himself nor those of Pav .
have extended measure , corrected lusions , hnve clealed up the whole mybtely this fttRl malady , its pnth ith the discoyery of glycogen ; ho complete of it , when it comes , must be based on 's resuIts .
No less the of glycogen wns the obsermndo ) Bernnrd in the early months of division of the symp } tntion of the blood-vessels of the neck .
nplc experiment the beginning of the long lies on 1 n$o-motor Jlerves , secretion , of nutrition , on inflammntion , so eminently the of the present .
The of physiology dnriIlg the vcnty y has becJl far more lftpid ith respect to of the lan ting 1 supply and secretion than in othel .
direction .
Nor is the Bernnrd 's initinl experiment lessened by the faet that in lntel .
month ( August ) of the on -Scquard had independently ined similar results to those of Bernnrd , { had pushed them further than ] nor by the that ] the yenr seen the importance of the new truth ' Beruard himself seems at to done .
The of physiology that time with some discovery ; not only the first to call ttention to the fncts , but JSequently emded f ] tnnce , his mcrit in tho ery nnot be shed by others ving iudepennrrived the results .
But Bernard 's mcrits as do not end hcrc .
only in importance to the d of tho tion made by him in lS50 , about the time indetho Americnll poisoJl , ultri , dobtroys the bility of , but leax es musctllar contractility tact .
This as of .
imit idence in of Hnller 's views on muscuhr ctility , hich had been hnt tho though opinions cxpressed by Bernard in publishing his tant d llot beou fdly con[Nov .
30 , by , the fact }which he mciated , that differences elist ) een the ction of the on the tissue itself and its ction on the of the motor n remains as a fumdamental physiology .
The discovery the properties of urari had , moreover , al the of invention of a method .
has of speJlsable advantnge a meibDs of ; its use in this espect is second only to that and other allaesthetics .
] } of most important results in the last qual'ter of a cenprobably never been reached without the assistance of .
Indircctly , thel.efol.e , we these to Kolliker .
We al.e { indebted to Belllal 'd for what } ' his earliest ork , an important reseal.ch on the ulctiollS of the pallcreas , more especially on the use the juice in the digestion of fat .
This importallt addition to science ; but it tires into the the more labours hich I have dwelt .
Lastly , in addition to these lesealches , ysiology h been enriched by a sel'ies of lectures on the nerlous system , on poisollS , on the properties blood mnd other fluids , in which Bel.nald not only forward many other tions interest and tance , a@ for instance those on cftrbonic-oxide poisoning , but also ected his l.eadels i luoid striking to genernl tions of grcnt Some the views which he has thus put ve not slood the test of tion ; but of them , for the conception of the blood as Jlternal medimn 011 which the sevelffi tissues live , become and parcel of the higher physiologied teaching of the day ; by the exposition of his views , has done service to physiology quite commensurate with the fruit his more special irics .
reccived for M. by His Excellellcy the French has been to Jules Janssen , .
Mem. E.S. , for his numerous and rehes on the lftdiation itnd absorption of light , rlied o chiefly by means ol the oscope .
For the last 16 hbours been unceasing ; and is uing them with umabated at the pleseJlt moment .
His first communication from , in which year he recorded some observations on the absorption radiant heat by the interiol .
of the eye .
This thesis gained him the sciences physiques .
In 1862 he published the iirst section of his celebrated ches o the the telluric lines the spectrum : he gave us the new of spectroscope of hioh we only now beginning to take full President 's Address .
( I lude to the " " visioJl Soscope , \ldquo ; long the ftmo of that optician was and ont how night enable us to vexed questioJl of the existeJlce of a ntmosphere .
with reference to th telluric line , he ) rimented t La on , some S7 metres stenm at the with the resuIt that by comp the spectra he demonstrate the telluric lines really due to the of aqueous vapour .
The experiment was repeated in another observntions of the of a seYernl miles the y the of Geneva .
these researdJes he sought and a mission from the Academy of Sciences to stern Europe to make vations spectra of stars ; and he was euabled to establish that exists in the tmosphere of some of them .
ches o aqueous apour led him to observe spectra , hich and o in the 'Comptes and Proceedings of the Socictc Philomathique , ions are which show that at that time he and AJlo g were in the van researches .
ations regnrding aqueous vapoul ' naturally led him to occasion of studying the atmosphere ; and since the .
edipse of ( which he obseryed at ) there has been one total solnr eclipse only which he has not studied .
After a scientific mission to the Azores in 1867 , he went to 1868 to obthg.eat edipse of that only were his hons of the edipse of the highesh value , but the edipse , with flash of gcnius , the occut'led to him that an edipse lvas not necessary to the ation of the into which everybody was ctnd he as the first to apply the method , now well , nhich is in all civilized mtries for the advaneement knowledge .
For some months aftel the Jnnssen lemiined in IJldin , and brought home a rich series of observations , up many branches of quiry which have since proved most fruitful result .
Iu the dipses of 1870 in Africa , 1871 in India , 1875 Siam , present , furthel ' the questiou which he set himself , ttlld } the solution of which his ]lame will alw be associated .
's skill as his sound knowledge of and mechamcal questions , have not been shown melely in colmexion with the Ctroscope ; he was )nxious to observe ]lot only the recent transit of Venns , but to obtainI'ecords of physical phenomena which can be observed only at such times .
fhis he attention to stronomic the result the introduction of his Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , revolving ppal.atus , which was instantly ndopted by our own eclipse will p be the only photographic instrument used in transits .
nssen is the present time engaged in organizing a physical observatory , is ring daily photographs of the sun , preliminaryto ing daily spectrum-photographs to elucidats all those inquiries which been raised by his former work .
I have limited this statement to those researches of M. Janssen which have reference to the Medal .
In the sixty notices of his papers printed in the 'Catalogue of Scientific Papers , ' some will be found on other braIlches of knowledge , the results of his many scientific missions , which a list is appsnded:\mdash ; 1857-58 .
Determination of the Magnetic Equator on the Coast of Peru . .
Study of the Telluric Lines in Italy .
1864 .
Continuation of this inquiry from high points in Alps .
1867 .
Observations of the Annular EcIipse Trani .
tions of the Eruption of Santorin .
lfagnetic tions in the Azores .
tions of total Eclipse in India .
Discovery of the new method .
Opticad and Magnetical obseryations at Simla .
1870 .
Obsel'vations of total Eclipse in Africa .
Janssen escaped from Paris in a balloon to make these .
1871 .
Observations of the total Eclipse Asia .
1874 .
Observations of the Transit of in Japan .
1875 .
Observations of a total Eclipse of the in Sinm .
[ The was received by M. nssen .
] A Eoyal Medal has been awarded to Mr. Willittm Froude , F.B.S. , for his rehes , both theoretical and , on the Behaviour of Ships , their osoillations , their resistance , and their propulsion .
It is generally admitted Mr. Froude httS done more than nybody else towards the establishment of a reasonable theory of the oscillntion of ships in wave-water , as well as for its experimental verification .
The accurate ments which he has contrived for the surement of il ) ship 's oscillation at sea hnve even permitted him to measure ( as difphenomenon ) the mean ave acting upon the ship with a of exactness exceeding that with which it has hithelto been possible to ascertain the of the surface-wave of the sea .
He also the first to establish on thoroughly sound principlcs possibility of that form of motion as the trochoidal sea-wave , whioh more nearly than any other ppears to represent shape of smooth ocean-wave , forms the of useful theories of the oscillation of ships .
IIe has conducted a sel.ies of iments , extending 1876 .
] President 's Address .
many years , on the Resistnnce , Propulsion , and Form of Ships , and on the very important and little-understood question of the law connecting tho jour of ships , in these respects , that of models of ships on much smaller scale .
These experiments have been conducted partly for the with public molley ; but they have also very largely taxed Mr. ) resources , the sums repaid to him by no representing his whole expenditure on these mitttels , and including no compensation whatever for his time or labour .
The amount of mech skill , as ell as of theoletical ness , been exhibited in all this has lced lSIr .
Froude in the forcmost rnJlk of all on this subject .
No one , indeed , has ever dono moro , either theoretically or practicnlly , for the accurate deterlninnfion of a ship 's motion , whether in propulsion or , than Mr. Froude .
lVilhout undelvaluing other modern vriters , it is not too much to say that his tions at present take completely the lead in ycry important most important to a maritime nation . .
Froude 's papers inly to bo found in the ' Transnclions ' of the Institution of Architects and of the British Association , as also in separato official reports published " " Blue Books [ The ]}fedal received by .
Froude .
] A Medal been arded to Sir Charles illc Thomson , for his successful direction of the scieIltilic investigatious ried on by H.M.S. ' Ohallenger .
' In consequence of representations made to ]}fajcsty 's Govcrnment by the esident and Council of the Royal Society , the Lords of the Admiralty , in , fitted out commissioned the lenger ' for the purpose of a of the ocean of a more systematic { complete character than which had hitherto been attempted .
After crossing the Atlantic in arious directions , the officer , arcs , ith the command of the ' Challenger , ' was to to Antalctic regiollS , and thencc to esteln sidc of ths l'ncific to Japall he as to closs the Pncilic , mniug southward its castern gion , to remrll to by of Capc The tribc by ares , his successor in command , Captain Thomson , covered 69,000 thousand miles ; and the chief objccls the expcdition were to oblain of cnrately { position , by which the turc of the and its and condition , from the fo the bottom all terluediate depths , could be detcrmined , to up -bottom itself sulffioient for its satisfactoly tion , to the turc of the at the surfacc and at the bottom , and to collect Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , the thimals thus ined , in such manncl as to enable their a IIillities to be more ) iouS thnn those afforded by life on shipboard , on the return of the vessel .
In this it lvas hoped by those who proposed the Expedition to the ment , firmer foundatioJl by ffi than any which formerly existed ould be laid for the physical geography of the ocean .
The of the Royal Socicty hardly need to be reminded of the manner in which those duties been performed .
From time to time , in the space of the three years a half duling lvhich the ' Challenger ' cruised in every variety of climate , and circumnnvigated the globe , many long and teresting Reports , sent home by the Director and the other officers the Staff , have been lnid before the Society by ordel of the Lords of the , have been in the ' Proceedings , ' and fford solid of the nature and value of the that has been done .
We have records of and tions of tho seabottom obtained at 354 stations , of the extraordinary fnct of the occurrence of peroxide manganese in masses over thousands of miles , of the final answer to the vexed eStion as to the bitation of the ( which colltribute so largely to the existing proccsses of rock-formation ) , of the uniformity of the deep-sea all over the world , ether with many other new and interesting discoveries which noed not boenumel'ated .
The collections which been formed of unexnmpled aluc f their extent and the excellency of ation .
It may be ] that no Expcdifion for scientilic purposes ever left the shorcs of any better organized or more mdantly provided that old be lcquired for its efficiency ; and it is no less true that nolle has more completely illed the purpose which it organized .
Under these cumstances the President and Council of the Eoyal Society have judged that the award of a Roynl lfecM to .
Wyville Thomson is of the great success hich he the Soientific Staff of the ' ChalleJlger , ' under his direction , have to Science , and , the time , a fitting meant , on their part , of the successful manncr in which he tho duty which , on their recommendation , the entrusted him .
[ The as received by Sir Wyville Thomson .
] Tho Statutes relnting to the election of Council and Oificers Cild , .
Wollaston Blnke Mr. C. ing been , with the consent of the Society , mted Stors , the votes of the ello ) prcscnt verc collected , the ving were declared duly elected Council and Officers for the ellsuing y 1876 .
] Number of Fellows .
\mdash ; Joseph JIooker , , D.C.L. , .D .
Treasu ) Spottiswoode , M.A. , .D . .
Alexander mson , Ph. D. of the Council .
John T. ; DG Ln Rnc , D.C.L. ; P. lTartiu mcan , , P.G.8 .
; Profcssol lVillia]u H. , F.R.C.S. ; , D.C.L. ; ncis G lVil]iam Guy , M.B. ; John llussell Hind , .
; Tho Rev. llaiu , .
; William Pole , , Mus. Doc .
; The Rev. Price , M.A. ; Rear-Admiral G. If .
Richax.ds , .
; Clifton Sorby , .
Soc. ; ofessor Hellry J. Stepheu Snuith , M.A. Professor Balfou Stcwart , The thanks of Sooiety wele to the Scrutators .
The the present of the Society respect to the llunber of 1876 .
] Appropriation of the Government Grant .
Account of the appropriation of the sum of ] annually voted by Parliament to the Royal Society ( the Government Grant ) , to be employed in aiding the advancement of Science ( comtinued from Vol. XXIV .
p. 101 ) . .
Report of the Committee .
Report of the Kew Committee the Year ending October 31 , 1876 .
fagnetographs have been in constant opel.ation throughout the .
The horizontal-force instrument has undergone readjustment of its suspension on ) occasions , in order to inclease its sensibility , which to diminished of late .
In accordance with the usual practice , determinations of the scalevalues of all the uments were mado in the first week of the new year , of the when The monthly tions with the instruments have been contillued , as usual , by Mr. Whipple JMr .
, and the results in the bless appended to this lReport .
The paper referred to in the last ining the results of Absolute ObservatiollS for the lS75 , hnving been read before the lioyal Society , has been printed vol. xxiv .
of the ' Procecdings .
' The Sergcants of the Royal , formcrly Sir E. 's office at Voolwich , } been in regul Jlce n the 3-ear , cipally C in the ) ) of his pnper " " butiollS to Tcrrcstrial bfagnetism , No. hich will be printed in tho Philosophicnl TrtUlS ilctions .

