Mr. G. T. Walker .
On Boomerangs .
239 " On Boomerangs .
" By G. T. Walker , M.A. , B.Sc. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 15 , \#151 ; Read April 8 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) A typical returning boomerang resembles in general outline a symmetrical arc of a hyperbola , and is about 80 cm .
in length measured along the curve .
At the centre , where the dimensions of the cross section are greatest , the width is about 7 cm .
, and the thickness 1 cm .
Of the two faces , one is distinctly more rounded than the other ; in addition the arms are twisted through about 4 ' , in the same manner as the blades of a right-handed screw propeller .
Such an implement , if thrown with its plane vertical , will describe a circular path of 40 or 50 metres in diameter , rising to a height of from 7 to 12 metres , and falling to the ground with its plane of rotation horizontal at a point somewhere near the thrower 's feet .
The flight may be regarded as a case of steady motion , of which the circumstances gradually vary .
In the more complicated , as well as the simpler , paths , observation makes it clear that everything depends on the changes in direction and inclination of the plane of the boomerang , and that the character of these changes is always the same ; if they can be explained theoretically , the peculiarities of the motion may be accounted for .
Since the effects of the different forces at work are conflicting , it is necessary to adopt quantitative methods , even if the degree of accuracy attainable is not high ; accordingly ratios comparable with a tenth are treated as small , and their squares neglected .
If we regard the boomerang as a thin , slightly distorted lamin , and integrate over it the forces indicated in S. P. Langley 's paper on " Experiments in Aerodynamics , " * we can obtain equations of motion .
From these , treating the motion as steady ( to the first approximation ) , we may deduce the values of the angular velocities on which the direction of the axis of rotation depends .
Five cases are worked out numerically , and the various effects of the " rounding " and " twisting " agree in character with the experimental facts ; the discrepancies in actual magnitude are not larger than might , from the nature of the case , have been anticipated .
The theoretical results may be fui'ther tested by applying them to determine the conditions favourable to the production of other flights in which , after the first circle , a loop is described , either in * 'Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge , ' 1891 .
240 Mr. C. T. R. Wilson .
Condensation of Water Vapour front of or behind the thrower ; in each of these cases success has been attained .
An explanation is also afforded of the returning of a boomerang without " twist , " made by Mr. 0 .
Eckenstein , and of the wonderfully long , straight trajectories of some of the native nonreturning implements .
" Condensation of Water Vapour in the presence of Dust-free Air and other Gases .
" By C. T. R. Wilson , B.Se .
( Viet .
) , M.A. ( Cantab .
) , of Sidney Sussex College , Clerk-Maxwell Student in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 15 , Read April 8 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) In a note read before the Cambridge Philosophical Society ( May 13 , 1895 ) I stated , as the result of some preliminary experiments , that when air , originally saturated with aqueous vapour , undergoes sudden expansion exceeding a certain critical amount , condensation takes place in the form of drops throughout the moist air , even in the absence of all foreign nuclei .
The present paper contains an account of the measurements which were afterwards made of this critical expansion in air and other gases , as well as of further phenomena which have since been observed in connection with the condensation of aqueous vapour from the supersaturated state .
Two different forms of expansion apparatus have been used .
Both were designed to enable a given sample of the saturated gas to be suddenly expanded as often as might be desired without any risk of foreign nuclei entering .
All such nuclei originally present were removed by repeatedly forming a cloud by expansion and allowing it to settle , till expansions of moderate amount ceased to cause any visible condensation .
In both forms of apparatus a definite expansion of any desired amount could be produced .
They were designed to give an exceedingly rapid expansion , the rate at which the volume was increasing being greatest , too , just before the expansion was completed , when the temperature was lowest and the influx of heat from the walls most rapid ; so that , as indeed appears from the constancy of the results obtained , the theoretical lowering of temperature must have been very nearly reached .
The two machines , in spite of the fact that the volume of the air in the first was twenty times as great as that contained in the second , gave identical results .
The larger machine was only used in the experiments on air .

