1891 .
] On the Adiabatic Relations of Ethyl Oxide .
II .
" An Attempt to determine the Adiabatic Relations of Ethyl Oxide .
Part L Gaseous Ether .
" By W. Ramsay , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University College , London , and E. P. Perman , B.Sc. Received March 16 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the research described in the memoir is the determination of the behaviour of ether in the state of gas approaching towards the state of liquid , when heat is communicated to it , so as to alter its condition adiabatically .
Previous researches by one of the authors in conjunction with Dr. Sydney Young have yielded data regarding the relations of pressure , temperature , and volume of gaseous and of liquid ether from which the values of the iso baric and of the isochoric differentials are obtainable .
Such results lead directly to a knowledge of the differences between the specific heats at constant pressure and those at constant volume ; and these differences are not constant , but vary with varying volume , pressure , and temperature .
The memoir contains an account of experiments made to determine the ratio between the specific heats at constant pressure and those at constant volume .
The velocity of sound in gaseous ether was determined at various temperatures , pressures , and volumes ; and by means of the isothermal differentials , and the experimental results for the velocity of sound , the ratios between the two specific heats were calculated .
From the differences and the ratios of the specific heats , the values of the specific heats were deduced .
The general conclusion is that , for any constant volume , the specific heat , whether at constant volume or at constant pressure , decreases to a limiting value with rise of temperature , and subsequently increases ; and that the change with temperature is more rapid , the smaller the volume .
At large volumes , the specific heats tend towards independence of temperature and volume , while at small volumes , the influence of change of temperature and volume is very great .
The authors are at present investigating similar relations for liquid ether .

