VII .
An Account of an Experiment , touching an Attempt to produce Light on the Inside of a Globe-Glass lined with melted Flowers of Sulphur , as in the Experiments of Sealing-Wax and Pitch .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. NOtwithstanding Sealing-wax and Pitch afford such surprising Phenomenon , rendring the Form of Bodies visible thro ' their Opake Substances , under the Circumstances of a Vacuum and Attrition ; yet there are other Bodies , by which very different Effects will be produced ; of which I shall give you a very remarkable Example : And that is in Flowers of Sulphur , or Sulphur Sublimed .
About half a Pound of this Preparation I melted in a Ladle , and poured it into a Globe Glass , and used it in all respects as in the other Experiments .
And when it was exhausted , and Motion and Attrition given , I expected as before to have seen a Light on its inside : But all that we could do had no manner of effect on it .
in relation to such an Appearance , neither when it was exhausted , nor when replete with Air : There was nothing to be observed but a very small weak Light , which after long rubbing , showed it self in that part where the Hand touched the Glass .
But when I came to look upon it , I found the Sulphurous Lining all in a body disengaged from the Concave surface of the Glass .
As to the Electricity of the Globe lined with this sort of Matter ; after the Attrition of it had been continued for some time , and the Glass was become pretty warm ( at the same time full of common Air ) the Hoop of Threads was held over it ; but the Attraction was very inconsiderable on the lined part , though on the transparent side the Threads were pretty vigorously directed ; yet not with that force and strength , as when the Glass is perfectly clear within , as this was not ; because the Fumes of the melted Sulphur adhering to it , made it appear somewhat Cloudy .
A Repetition of the foregoing Experiment with Common Sulphur .
I took a quantity of Common Sulphur , nearly equal to what I had used before of the Flowers ; which having melted as before , I poured it into another Globe Glass , which I used in all Respects as the former .
But when I had exhausted it , and given the usual Motion and Attrition , the effect was so surprisingly different , that one would scarce think it should proceed from the same sort of body .
For the Figure of my Hand and Fingers appeared not only on its inside , ( tho ' more faint and pale than in the Experiments of Sealingwax and Pitch , ) but on its outside there appeared a brisk Purple Light , so beautiful and agreeable to the Eye , that it was very pleasant to behold .
The Strength of this Light may be judged from hence , That the Lines of the Palm of my Hand , which being near the touching Parts , were easily discoverable by it ; and were a small Print placed at the same distance , I question not but it would be legible without any great difficulty .
And as this common Sulphur differed vastly in that part of the Experiment already related , from the former , so likewise in the latter ; for when the Hoop of Threads came to be held over it , ( under the same Circumstances as in the other ) they were directed toward it as vigorously as in any Experiment heretofore made .
The Parts lined and transparent performed much alike ; if there was any difference , it seemed to incline to that part lined with the Sulphur .
Like wise in this Experiment as in the last , the Sulphur was loosened and separated from the Glass that contained it : Which therefore cannot be urged , as any ways conducible to the Unsuccessfulness of the former .
A Repetition of this last Experiment with a larger quantity of Sulphur .
Into a Globe Glass of the same size of the former , which was about five Inches Diameter , I poured about two Pound of melted Sulphur : This , when cold , contracted it self , and became loose from every part of the Glass , as in the former Experiments : The Sulphur covered more than half the inward surface of the Globe , and its thinest part was about half an Inch in thickness .
Towards the Axis it appeared to be more than a full Inch in Substance .
This Glass , when exhausted of its Air , was used in every thing as the former .
The Light produced was very considerable , I mean that on its outside , and attended with the same Colour and Vivacity as before ; nor was that less vigorous on its inside .
Comparing it with the former , notwithstanding the thickness of the Lining , it was at least four times greater ; but the Figure of the Fingers was now not so distinguishible as in the other .
But on the part near the Axis ( as I hinted before ) where the substance of the Sulphur was much the greatest , no Light was produced ; which may be attributed in a great measure to the slowness of the motion and the weakness of it there , in comparison with that which is made more remote from it , where it was that the Light was seen within .
What farther is observable , was that the Light which was visible on its outside only , appeared to be produced between the inward Surface of the Glass and the convex Surface of the Sulphur ; the Sulphur being loose from it gave liberty for the Air to be taken from thence as well as from the other Parts : The Light which was there produced , being reflected by the hard , polished , and nearly contiguous Body of Sulphur , seems to me to be the Reason why it appeared with so much vigour .
This outward Light would sometimes break into Branches all over the lined part of the Globe , in as odd , and as pleasant a manner , as what has been taken notice of in former Experiments , with the large Globe Glass , upon letting in a little Air .
And what farther occurred in this Experiment was , that when the Attrition was ceased , but the Globe continuing its motion , abundance of Sparks of Light would appear all round it , and continue so to do for some time , without any fresh Attrition .
I cannot conclude without taking some notice , that in the Experiments formerly made on Sulphur , mentioned in my Book of Physico-Mechanical Experiments , I used the same sort as in the first of these ; and had it been my Chance to have happened on the common sort , I doubt not but the Succcss of it would have been different from what is there related , which I hope to try at one time or other .
Coroll. Hence we may see what Remarkable Changes may be produced in Bodies , with respect to their Electrical and Luminous Qualities , by their different Management and Preparation : As here it is plain that common Sulphur , which is plentifully endowed with both these Qualities , by undergoing the Chemical Fire ( which sublimes it into Flowers , ) is almost totally deprived of them both .
Perhaps by other management of the same Body , this Loss might be repaired again .
And it is possible there may be Chemical Operations , which instead of impairing , may Improve and Heighten these wonderful Qualities of Bodies : Nay for ought that I know , may as well give them a new , where they never were at all ; as to take them away , where they once were in a great degree of Perfection .
The Powers of Nature are not to be determine d beforehand by Demonstration , but to be searched out by Observation and Experiment .
And as these Trials have opened the way to something that looks with a very promising Aspect ; so we hope by degrees to pursue them with some good Success .

