79b .
in the Spectrum .
" By G. G. Stokes , Esq. , M.A. , Fellow of Pembroke College , Cambridge .
Communicated by the Rev , Baden Powell , M.A. , F.R.S. The principal object of the author in this communication is to point out some practical applications of the interference bands recently discovered by Professor Powell , the theory of which was considered by the author in the paper to which the present is a supplement .
The bands seem specially adapted to the determination of ' the dispersion in media which cannot be procured in sufficient purity to exhibit the fixed lines of the spectrum .
The ordinary experiments of interference allow of the determination of refractive indices with great precision ; but in attempting to determine in this way the dispersion of the retarding plate employed , there is the want of a definite object to observe in connection with the different parts of the spectrum .
In Professor Powell 's experiment , the wire of the telescope , placed in coincidence with one of the fixed lines of the spectrum previously to the insertion of the retarding plate into the fluid , marks the place of the fixed line , and so affords a definite object to observe when the retarding plate is inserted into the fluid , and the spectrum is consequently traversed by bands of interference .
The practical applications considered by the author are principally four .
In the first , the variation of the refractive index of the plate in passing from one fixed line to another is determined , the absolute refractive index for some one fixed line being supposed accurately known .
The observation consists in counting the number of bands seen between two fixed lines of the spectrum , the fractions of a band-interval at the two.extremities being measured or estimated .
In the second application , the absolute refractive index of the plate is determined for some one fixed line of the spectrum .
The observation consists in counting the number of bands which move across the wire of the telescope , previously placed in coincidence with the fixed line in question , when the plate is inclined to the incident light .
The third application is to the determination of the change in the refractive index of the fluid , for any fixed line of the spectrum , produced by a change in the temperature .
The observation consists in counting the number of bands which move across the wire of the telescope while the temperature sinks from one observed value to another , the temperature being noted by means of a delicate thermomleter which remains in the fluid .
For this observation a knowledge of the refractive index of the retarding plate is not required .
The fourth application is to the determination of the change of velocity of the light corresponding to any fixed line of the spectrum , when the direction of the refracted wave changes with reference to certain fixed lines in the plate , which is here supposed to belong to a doubly refracting crystal .
The observation consists in counting the bands as they pass the wire when the plate is inclined .
It requires that the plate should be mounted on a graduated instrument .
It would be possible in this way to determine , by observation alone , the wave surface belonging to each fixed line of the spectrum .
While considering the theory of Professor Powell 's bands , the author was led to perceive the explanation of certain bands , described by Professor Powell , which are seen in the secondary spectrum formed by two prisms which produce a partial achromatism .
Although the account of these bands has been published many years , they do not seem hitherto to have attracted attention .
It is easily shown by common optics that when two colours are united by means of two prisms , the deviation , regarded as a function of the refractive index , the angle of incidence being given , is a maximum or minimum for some intermediate colour .
For the latter colour , two portions of light of consecutive degrees of refrangibility come out parallel ; and therefore the diffraction bands belonging to different kinds of light , of very nearly the same refrangibility with the one in question , are superposed in such a manner that the dark and bright bands respectively coincide .
Thus distinct bands are visible in the secondary spectrum , although none would be seen in the spectrum formed by a single prism , in consequence of the mixture of the bright and dark bands belonging to different kinds of light of nearly the same degree of refrangibility .
The diffraction bands here spoken of are of very sensible breadth , in consequence of the small width of the aperture employed in the actual experiment .
When a spectrum is viewed through a narrow slit half covered by a plate of mica , the edge of which bisects the slit longitudinally , and is held parallel to the fixed lines of the spectrum , the bands described by Sir David Brewster are seen , provided the mnica plate lie at the side at which the blue end of the spectrum is seen , and provided the thickness of the plate and the breadth of the slit lie within certain limits .
When these bands are invisible in consequence of the slit being too narrow , or the spectrum too broad , it follows from theory that the bands ought to appear when the slit and plate are turned round the axis of the eye , so that the edge of the plate is no longer parallel to the fixed lines of the spectrum .
The author has verified this conclusion by experiment , employing plates adapted to observations with the naked eye , which are best suited to the purpose .

