454 Mr. T. W. Bridge on [ June 20 , IV .
" Osteology of Polyodon folium .
" By T. W. Bridge , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , and Demonstrator of Comparative Anatomy in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor Newton , F.R.S. Received May 29 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) On a previous occasion* the author described the cranial osteology of one of the more specialized genera of existing Ganoids , and the paper now laid before the Society is an attempt to add to the relatively scanty literature of this department of comparative anatomy , by giving in detail an .
account of the skeletal structures of one of the most generalized members of the group .
The following are among the more important of the conclusions which the facts elucidated appear to warrant .
A comparison of Polyodon with its nearest living ally , the Sturgeon , demonstrates the close relationship that exists between the two forms as regards their skeletal anatomy .
In so far as Acipenser differs from Polyodon , it approaches the Teleostean type , nor is the latter genus without indications of having undergone a degree of specialization in the same direction .
But not the least important characteristic of Polyodon is its possession of a remarkable combination of structures , usually regarded as being specially distinctive of the Plagiostome Elasmobranchii .
The existence of such primitive characters , which are also present in Acipenser , though to a less extent , suggests the desirability of giving to such facts adequate expression in any scheme that may be proposed for the classification of the Ganoids .
After giving a resume ' of the views held by various zoologists as to the position of these genera in their order , it is suggested that J. Muller 's two suborders ( Chondrostei and Holostei ) should be retained , though it seems advantageous to remodel the definitions on which they were based .
The various families of recent Ganoidei may be arranged in two suborders of approximately equal morphological value , which are mainly differentiated by the structure of their upper jaws .
a. G. Selachoidei.\#151 ; Pterygoid processes united in a medio-ventral symphysis beneath the basis cranii ; notochord persistent and unsegmented ; spiracles and mandibular branchiae present .
Gen. Polyodon , Acipenser , ScaphirJiynchus , Chondrosteus .
fi .
G. Teleosteoidei.\#151 ; Pterygoid processes not united with each other but are connected directly , or indirectly by the intervention of a palatine bone , with the prefrontal region of the skull ; vertebral column , generally ossified ; mandibular gills abortive .
Gen. Amia , Lepidosteus , Polypterus .
* " Journal of Anatomy and Physiology , " vol. xi .
Osteology of Polyodon folium .
If tested by the structure of their upper jaws , the Crossopterygidae , Lepidosteidae , and the Palaeoniscidae should be referred to the Teleosteoidei , while the Acanthodidae would probably belong to the other sub-order .
Nevertheless , the distinctness of the two groups is materially lessened by the existence of many annectent fossil forms .
Acipenser and Ghondrosteus in the one division and Palaeoniscus in the other , partially bridge over the gap which exists between the two when the recent forms only are considered .
The Placodermi and the Cephalaspidae must still be referred to as being " incertae sedis .
" A comparison of the skull of Polyodon with the Amphibian skull leads to interesting results .
Perhaps the most remarkable feature in which Polyodon resembles the Anura , is in the possession of a forwardly directed " orbitar process " associated with a suspensorium so much inclined backwards that the gape is extended even beyond the posterior limits of the skull .
The condition of the " orbitar process , " as an apparently functionless rudiment in Polyodon , does not throw any light on its primitive origin , but its position and relations in the adult Lamprey , and its transitory condition in the embryo Anura , suggest that originally it may have acted as an anterior suspensor to the much inclined mandibular pier of apimals possessing a suctorial mouth , prior to the adaptation of the pterygo-quadrate arcade to that purpose .
These facts , together with the rotation of the quadrate cartilage , which we may infer to have taken place from the direction and relations of the " orbitar process , " are indications of the existence of a close parallelism between the developmental history of the cranium in the embryo Polyodon , and in such otherwise dissimilar Anurous Amphibia as Dactylethra capensis , JBufo omatus , and Pana temporaria .
The fenestration of the roof of the periotic capsule which exists in Polyodon seems to correspond to the primitive auditory involution which persists in Siren lacertina , and , as in the latter , it is situated to the outer side of the arch of the posterior vertical semicircular canal , and not to its inner or mesial side as is the case with the Selachians .
The co-existence in Polyodon of so remarkable a combination of Amphibian and Selachian features suggests an enquiry into the phylogenetic relationship of the Ganoids , the Amphibia , and the Elasmobranchs , or , in other words , suggests the question , is the ancestral stem of the Ganoidei more closely related to that of the Amphibia , or to that of the Elasmobranchs ?
An analysis of the structural features common to any two of these primary groups seems to affirm the monophyletic origin of the two first-mentioned .
On this assumption the relation of the three groups may be roughly and tentatively expressed as follows:\#151 ; It seems not improbable that a primitive ancestral stock ( a ?
) very Mr. W. P. Sladen on Astrophiura permira .
[ June 20 , early differentiated into the two groups of Apneumatocoela and Pneu-matocoela , the former being the root-stock of the modem Elasmo-branchii , while the latter , by acquiring rudimentary and more or less functional lungs , became the primitive double-breathers from which have been dei'ived the Ganoidei and the Amphibia .
Prom the primi-tive Ganoidei were derived the Teleosteoid Ganoids and eventually the Teleostei also , their originally complex swim-bladders becoming gradually devoted to other functions , while the Selachoidei may be regarded as the but little modified descendants of the original progenitors of the order .
The close correspondence that exists between and the Selachii is not incompatible with these views , but may be the result of the persistence in both of structures originally possessed by their primitive ancestor .
Two facts in the cranial anatomy of Polyodon are not easy to explain , viz. , the formation of the upper jaw and the existence of the " orbitar process .
" The union of the pterygoid processes in a median symphysis may have been the primitive condition of the jaws in the ancestral form ( ) , but that while persistent in Polyodon and in the Selachii , it was superseded by a different arrangement , viz. , the union of the pterygoid processes with retral palatine outgrowths in most Ganoidei , and in all Teleostei and Amphibia .
Neither is it easy to account for the retention of the " orbitar process .
" It may have been an adaptive modification correlated with a suctorial mouth in the larval or adult forms of those Ganoids that were first differentiated from the Amphibian stem , and independently developed ; or it may have been possessed by , and similarly functioned in , the primitive Pneumatocoela , but has become obsolete in all their descendants , except Polyodon and the Anura .
Thus it would appear that the Polyodontidae constitute a remarkably central group .
They retain not a few of the characters which we may assume to have belonged to the primitive stock out of which were evolved the three most important groups of Ichthyopsida , combined , however , with a certain amount of specialization ; nor are they altogether without indications of retrogression .
V. " On Astrophiura permira , an Echinoderm-form intermediate between Ophiuroidea and Asteroidea .
" By W. Percy Sladen , F.L.S. , F.G.S. Communicated by Professor Duncan , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The following peculiarities of structure presented by the anatomy of the echinoderm above described are noteworthy:\#151 ; 1 .
The combination of ophiuroid disk- and arm-structure within a pentagonal asteroid form of body .

