] 872 .
] Further Researches among the Plants of the Coal-measures .
435 Terrestrial Magnetism , No. XII .
, " by General Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. , and President of the Royal Society , the annual decrease of the westerly declination , in the interval 29 oyears , over various geographical districts is thus shown :\#151 ; Shetland Islands and N.E coast of Scotland , between 60th and 56th parallels ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 8'24 East coast of England , between 56th and 51st parallels ... .
7'78 South coast of England , between 51st and 49th parallels . .
1 Dungeness to Scilly Islands with the Channel Islands . . . .
/ / ^ ( Greenwich Observatory ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7'14 : ) Irish Channel , between 52nd and 54th parallels ... ... ... ... ... ... .
7'10 Hebrides and west coast of Scotland , between 56th and 58th parallels ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
6'85 Ireland , S.W. , West , and N.W. coasts , between 52nd and 55th parallels ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
6'26 It is thus seen that in the area included by the shores of the United Kingdom the change was greater on the eastern than on the western side ; as also that in the higher parallels of latitude of this area the change wras greater than in the lower parallels .
By a farther comparison of results as observed within the last ten to twelve years , at the same stations within the same geographical districts , the following approximate values of the present rate of annual change ( westerly declination decreasing ) are obtained :\#151 ; Shetland Islands and N.E. coast of Scotland . .
11*2 East coast of England ( Bridlington ) ... ... ... . .
10-3 South coast of England ( Plymouth ) ... ... ... ... .
9 Scotland , W. and N.W. coasts ... ... ... ... ... ... 9'5 Ireland , S.W. coast ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
6'6 hese values are in satisfactory accordance with those obtained in the interval ( 1865-71 ) at the following fixed magnetic observatories :\#151 ; Greenwich. .
8'33 mean annual decrease of westerly declination .
*ew ... ... ... 8-08 Stonyhurst 7'85 ^ I. " Notice of further Researches among the Plants of the Coal-measures .
" By Prof. W. C. Williamson , E.R.S. Received June 1 , 1872 .
Fallowfield , May 3 , 1872 .
7 v dear Dr. Sharpey , \#151 ; In my memoir on Calamites , published in the \#166 ; ist volume of the 'Philosophical Transactions , ' I gave two figures of sections \#174 ; a plant ( plate 25 .
fig. 16 and plate 28 .
fig. 39 ) supposed to be a Calamite , u respecting the Calamitean nature of which I expressed my doubts in a 436 Prof. W. C. Williamson 's Further Researches [ June 20 , note at the foot of page 488 .
I have now got numerous examples of this plant , and it proves , as I surmised , to belong to a distinct type .
It has a branching stem , not jointed , and having a remarkable pith .
Since the latter organ , when divided transversely , gives a star-shaped section , closely re-sembling that of a Calamite , except that it has not been fistular , I propose to give to the plant the generic name of I have further examined a series of curious stems which I described briefly at the Edinburgh Meeting of the British Association under the name of Dictyoxylon radicans ; this plant I also find must be placed in a new genus .
It is characterized by possessing an exogenous , woody , branching stem , composed of reticulated vessels .
It has no pith , and its bark consists of cells arranged in columns perpendicular to its surface .
I think it not 'improbable that this has been the subterranean axis of some other plant , since I have succeeded in tracing its ultimate subdivisions into rootlets .
I propose for the present to recognize it by the generic name of My specimens of this plant are very numerous , some of them having been kindly supplied to me by Messrs. Butterworth and Whittaker , of Oldham .
They may prove to be rhizomes and roots of the Asterophyllite described in my last letter to you .
Of this last genus I have just got an additional number of exquisite examples , showing not only the nodes but verticils of the linear leaves so characteristic of the plant .
These specimens place the correctness of my previous inference beyond all possibility of doubt , and finally settle the point that Asterophyllites is not the branch and foliage of a Calamite , but an altogether distinct type of vegetation having an internal organization peculiarly its own .
This organization is identical in every essential point with that of my Vol/ cmannia Dawsoni already referred to in my previous letter , and which I do not now hesitate to designate Dawsoni .
The peculiar triquetrous form of the young vascular axis of this genus is too remarkable and too distinct from that of all other Carboniferous types to be mistaken for any of them , and especially^ for that o Calamites , with which it has not one single feature of real affinity .
I have also obtained , partly through the assistance of Messrs. Butter-worth and Whittaker , but especially the latter , an instructive series o specimens of the genus Zygopteris , which has recently been made thejMJB ject of an important memoir by M. B. Renault , published in tome the * Annales des Sciences Naturelles .
' Our Lancashire specimens are o the type which he describes under the name of Z. .
The savant has found these plants , in one instance , connected as petioles to * rhizome , which he believes to be that of a fern .
Our specimens suppj some information additional to that published by M. Renault ; they \#187 ; PP*"* to me to sustain his idea that they are petioles , and I have traced e\#174 ; the origin of the two vascular bundles which he refers to as pores exis in\#187 ; in the bark .
I find much reason for concluding that they are , as he * mises , the vessels going to the secondary rachis of the pinnules .
1872 .
] among the Plants of the Coal-measures .
4,37 Lancashire specimens are covered with sparse , but very distinct hairs , that unlike the ramentaceous form common amongst ferns , are perfectly cylindrical .
Whilst I am thus inclined to express my conviction that M. Renault is correct in his views respecting , I find it increasingly difficult to distinguish fragments of ferns from those of Lycopods , as also fragments of petioles from those of roots .
Mr. Nield and Mr. Whittaker , of Oldham , have just supplied me with two magnificent stems of Calamites of large size .
The pith is absent from both , except some slight traces at the node of one of the specimens .
I find on dissecting these matured stems that the remarkable arrangements of the vascular structure seen in plate 23 .
figure 2 of my memoir on Calamites almost entirely disappear in the more external of the exogenous growths .
The conspicuous vertical laminae of cellular parenchyma ( my primary medullary rays ) , which separate the woody wedges , rapidly diminishin size as they proceed from within outwards , becoming more or less like the secondary or ordinary medullary rays represented in my fig. 5 .
Many of them , however , retain the evidence of their primary medullary origin in their unusual length , and by consisting of two , or even three , verticafseries of cells instead of one , as is usual with the secondary rays .
The vessels pursue their longitudinal course across the node undeflected in any direction , save where they bend aside to allow the passage outwards of vascular bundles going off to the aerial branches* , as represented in my figures 13 and 38 .
Thus m the exterior parts of these large stems the ligneous zone exhibits little or no indication of the presence of a node , except what these divergent bundles afford .
I find that these bundles slightly increase in size as they proceed from within outwards , showing that they share in the exogenous additions made to the exterior of the ligneous zone ; in one of my stems that zone las a circumference of seven inches , and the other of six and three quarters .
It is in the former one that I find the nodal bundles ; but I have not seen one of these organs whose actual diameter exceeds three sixteenths 0 an inch , confirming my previous statements respecting the comparatively small size of the aerial branches .
As in my previously described examples , these bases of branches exhibit no separation of the vessels into a circle of wedges like those of the parent stem .
The persistent growth of e vascular bundles just described seems to indicate more permanent rela-10ns between them and the central stem than I once thought probable , eie appears to be a close approximation to uniformity in the number of e woody wedges of these large stems ; one of mine contains 85 , and the pi 2 " f SUC^ ' ^r* Binneycounted 73 in his large specimen ( cit. l'i tl y'unS\gt ; woody cylinder represented in my fig. also \Ineftn ^^ame^er 'f which was slightly over an inch , the number was and 'U^ ^ ^is c^ose resemblance between stems so different in age # S1Ze a\#187 ; a*u illustrates another of my previous statements , viz. that age menm !
l*3 C''K !
ition is very correctly represented in plate 3 .
fig. 3 of Mr. Emney 's 011 Catamites ( Palaeont .
Soc. ) .
438 Mr. II .
Mallet on Volcanic Energy .
[ June 20 , produces no increase in the number of the woody wedges , hut that each one of the latter enlarges hy successive additions to its peripheral portions of new laminae , which latter partly fill up the increasing area of the en-larging circle , and partly encroach upon the primary medullary rays , as represented in my figure 17 , in addition to some inteistitial giowth .
We thus learn that as the ligneous cylinder of a Calamite increased in age and size it gradually exhibited less and less of the Calamitean peculiarities seen in young stems ; its external portions assumed a generalized , unsulcated form , which recurs with remarkable uniformity in several otherwise different plants of the Coal-measures .
Amongst the Burntisland fossils sent to me hy Mr. Grieve , I find two very curious stems , probably of the same general nature as Zygopteris .
Both have a dense outer cortical layer , with vascular bundles in the interior .
In the simpler of these plants the transverse section of this bundle is crescentic ; but in the concave border of the crescent are two small projecting capes dividing it into three minor bays ( fig. 2 ) .
In the other the vascular axis is a double one , lodged in a somewhat elliptical stem : one of these is a simple crescent , the concavity of which is directed inwards ; the other has a very elegant transverse section ( fig. 1 ) .
It is shaped like a dumb-bell , one head of which rests within the concavity of the crescentic bundle , and the other turns in the opposite direction ; at each of these two extremities the margin of the dumb-bell is excavated into a small bay , as if a vertical canal had existed at each point ; but these seem to have been merely columns of cellular tissue encroaching upon the rounded outline of the vascular structures .
I propose provisionally to recognize these two forms under the generic name of Arpexylon .
Fig. 1 .
Arpexylon duplex .
Fig. 2 .
Arpexylon simplex .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 3 represents a stem or petiole in which the section of the vascular bundle presents the form of a chair or seat , and to which I propose to assign the name Edraxylon .
This form exhibits numerous modifications of the pattern represented in the outline down to a single central vascular bundle .
It may prove to belong to Dictyoxylon Oldhamium* VII .
" Volcanic Energy : an attempt to devclope its true Origin and Cosmical Relations .
" By Robert Mallet , E.R.S. Received May 13 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author passes in brief review the principal theories which in modern times have been proposed to account for volcanic activity .

