OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
CONTENTS .
Page John Kerr ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
i Dr. James Bell , C.B. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... v B. L. J. Ellery ... .* ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... v* Spencer Compton Cavendish , Duke of Devonshire ... ... ... ... ... xi Colonel Andrew Wilson Baird ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
xvii William Ashwell Shenstone ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
XXJi \#171 ; \#166 ; JOHN KERB , 1824\#151 ; 1907 .
Dr. John Kerr was born on December 17 , 1824 , at Ardrossan , in Ayrshire .
In the Album of the University of Glasgow for 1841 , the year of his matriculation , he is described as " Joannes Kerr natu secundus Thomce piscarii in oppido Ardrossan " His father , Thomas Kerr , seems to have removed to Sky when his son was yet very young , for the boy received part of his early education at a village school in that island .
His attendance at University classes extended over the years from 1841 to 1849 .
He obtained prizes in Natural Philosophy in 1845-6 , when the class was taught , during the illness of Prof. Meikleham , by David Thomson , who afterwards became Professor of Natural Philosophy in Aberdeen .
In ' the following year\#151 ; the first of William Thomson 's professorship\#151 ; Kerr appears to have devoted himself specially , no doubt under the influence of the new professor , to the study of the mathematical theories of magnetism and electricity .
In the four years from 1846 to 1849 he received special prizes for examinations and essays in these subjects , and the " Earl of Eglinton 's Prize of Twenty Sovereigns " as the most distinguished student in mathematics and natural philosophy for the degree of M.A. In 1849 he graduated with " Highest Distinction in Physical Science , " and his University career came to a conclusion .
In 1848 and 1849 Prof. Thomson was converting the old " professorial wine-cellar " into a physical laboratory , the first in Great Britain , probably in the world , and Kerr was one of the earliest members of the experimental corps who did pioneer work in the murky seclusion of what was known among the students of the time as the " coal-hole " !
He was a divinity student , and , like some others of his class , did excellent scientific work ; indeed , as Thomson declared in his Bangor Address in 1885 , among the divinity students of the time were some of the best researchers , and they became all the better clergymen for having seen something of scientific methods and handled scientific instruments .
After some time spent in teaching , for he does not seem to have assumed officially the clerical duties for which he qualified , Kerr was appointed in 1857 to the post of Lecturer in Mathematics in the Glasgow Free Church Training College for Teachers .
In that institution he set up a small laboratory , modestly provided with apparatus , to a great extent at his own expense , and there he spent such time as he could spare from his class work in carrying on physical researches , aided , like Thomson himself , by a few devoted students .
He retained his post for forty-four years , and retired in 1901 to spend the remaining six years of his life among his instruments , working out special points connected with his optical researches .
His old students on that occasion showed their gratitude to him for his ii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
teaching , and their respect for his achievements and the fine qualities of mind and heart which had endeared him to them as a friend as well as a master by presenting him with some silver plate .
Kerr wrote one book only ; but within its scope and purpose it was a very good one .
It was entitled ' An Elementary Treatise on Rational Mechanics/ and no doubt represented to a considerable extent such a view of the subject as a mature student , who had passed through the classes of Thomson , would naturally take .
Proofs attributed to Thomson appear in one or two places and the book contains , like Thomson and Tait 's ' Natural Philosophy/ which appeared a year later , a chapter on " Cinematics .
It adheres , however , to the old division of the subject into .
statics and dynamics , and therefore opens with a discussion of statics , in which the parallelogram of forces is proved by the old and little satisfying statical considerations .
The dynamical ( kinetic ) part is based on Newton 's Laws of Motion , a return to which was , a feature of the f Natural Philosophy ' ; but it does not include the extension of the third law to the modern theory of energy , which , as Thomson and Tait first pointed out , is contained in the Principia .
It would appear probable , therefore , that this view of the third law had not formed part of Thomson 's teaching at the period when Kerr was a student .
On the whole the ' Rational Mechanics/ if revised and extended in some places and abridged in others , would form a sound introduction to the study of dynamics for the students of the present day . .
Kerr 's name will , however , he always associated with his two great discoveries : the birefringence developed in glass and other insulators when placed in an intense electric field , and the change produced in polarised light by its reflection from the polished pole of a magnet .
Led by the view already experimentally verified in various ways , that the Faraday lines of induction in an insulating medium correspond to some marked physical change in t e medium , he set to work to discover whether this change had any optical effect .
Taking a plate of glass about two inches thick , he bored holes from its ends until their extremities were within about a quarter of an inch of meeting , in these he inserted the terminals of the secondary circuit of an induction coi .
When the coil was in action , the intervening glass was subjected to intense strain .
A beam of light , plane polarised by a Nmol 's prism , was sent across the glass , at right angles to the line joining the terminals , and received on e other side by an analysing Nicol , arranged so as to give extinction of the beam when the glass was free from strain .
Soon after the coil was excited the light was seen to pass through the analysing Nicol , and to have become ellip-tically polarised .
The maximum effect was produced when the wave-front of the incident light was arranged , as just described , to be parallel to the Faraday lines in the glass , and to have its plane of polarisation inch them at an angle of 45 ' .
Midway between these two positions of the pla of polarisation , that is when that plane was parallel to the lines of force , right angles to them , no effect was produced .
Kerr measured the effect by means of a compensator of strame 0 John Kerr .
m found that the glass appeared to have received , by the action of the electric field , a crystalline structure such as would have been produced by compressing it along the lines of electric force .
The effect was not instantaneously produced ; it appeared about two seconds after the coil was started , and increased for twenty or thirty seconds afterwards .
In a piece of amber the opposite effect to that in glass was found to be produced , that is the material behaved as if it were extended along the lines of force .
He devised glass cells , which he seems to have constructed to a great extent himself with great labour and much mechanical skill , for the extension of his experiments to liquids .
He found that the effect was well marked in carbon disulphide and in paraffin oil , and was similar to that in glass .
He obtained results for a large number of organic liquids , of which the mere enumeration would take considerable space .
His papers on this subject are contained in the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' beginning with vol. 50 ( 1875 ) , in which his first great paper appeared , and continued at intervals for many years .
The view was expressed by Quincke that , for the production of birefringence by electric strain , non-uniformity of the electric field was essential ; but Kerr showed that when a uniform field was produced in a stratum of carbon disulphide by means of parallel plate electrodes of considerable area , the effect was still found to exist .
He proved the same thing also later for solid substances , and his results were confirmed by Quincke .
Kerr 's second discovery , was communicated first to Section A of the British Association , at the Glasgow Meeting in 1876 ; and the writer of this notice well remembers the excitement which the exhibition of the phenomenon caused among the distinguished physicists there assembled .
It was described in a paper published in the 'Philosophical Magazine ' in the following year ( vol. 4,1877 ) .
The soft iron pole-piece of one core of a horseshoe electro-magnet was carefully polished on one face , and a beam of plane polarised light was thrown upon it and reflected into an analysing prism .
Various effects were produced according to the position of the reflecting surface with reference to the direction of magnetisation and to the plane of incidence of the light .
When the light falls normally on a pole of an electro-magnet\#151 ; that is when the polished surface is perpendicular to the direction of magnetisation , and the light is along that direction\#151 ; the plane of polarisation appears to be turned through a small angle .
In reality , however , the light has become elliptically polarised in the act of reflection ; but each ellipse has a long axis and a very short one , and a plane parallel to the long axis may be taken as the new plane of polarisation of the light regarded as still plane polarised .
This new plane makes only a small angle with the former position of the plane of polarisation , and such that the direction of the apparent turning is opposite to that in which the exciting currents are circulating round the pole .
Thus the apparent direction of turning depends on whether the reflecting surface is a north or a south pole .
iv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
When the light is incident obliquely on the polished surface ( still at right angles to the direction of magnetisation ) , and has its plane of polarisation either in or at right angles to the plane of incidence\#151 ; so that , when the surface is unmagnetised , there is no effect of reflection at the metallic surface on the position of the plane of polarisation\#151 ; the effect of exciting the magnet is to produce again a small apparent rotation of the plane of polarisation .
In reality the light is elliptically polarised , as in the former case .
The direction of the apparent rotation is again opposite to that of the currents which produce the magnetisation .
In other experiments , the reflecting surface was magnetised tangentially .
Kerr showed that when , in this case , the plane of incidence is perpendicular to the lines of magnetisation , and also when the incidence is normal , no effect is produced .
On the other hand , when the incidence is oblique , elliptic polarisation , similar to that already described , results .
When the light is polarised in the plane of incidence , the direction of the apparent turning is opposite to that of the circulation of the exciting currents ; on the other hand , when the light is polarised at right angles to the plane of incidence , the apparent rotation is in the same direction as these currents for angles of incidence between 0 and 75 ' , and changes sign for larger angles of incidence .
These results have been verified and extended by various experimenters , especially Righi and Kundt ; and mathematical theories of the effects have been worked out , first by FitzGerald , and more recently by Larmor in his general discussion of magneto-optic phenomena .
Kerr 's papers are to be found in the ' Phil. Mag. , ' loc. cit. supra , and vol. 5 ( 1878 ) .
In a paper published in the ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 26 ( 1888 ) , Kerr gave an account of experiments on the double refraction of light in strained glass , and his last paper ( ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1894 ) dealt again with the subject of electro-optics .
Before Kerr had made his scientific discoveries his University had recognised his educational work , and the merit of his book on Rational Mechanics , by creating him an honorary Doctor of Laws .
In 1890 , he was elected to the Royal Society ; and he received , in 1898 , a Royal Medal for his scientific researches .
He died on August 18,1907 , at his residence in Glasgow .
Most of the apparatus and appliances\#151 ; induction coil , glass cells , electromagnet , etc.\#151 ; with which Kerr made his discoveries have been acquired by the University of Glasgow , and are preserved there in the new Institute of Natural Philosophy .
Dr. Kerr was a shining example of a man engaged in engrossing routine work , and hampered by narrow resources , yet devoting himself with splendid success to scientific research of the highest order .
His career shows what can be achieved by patient , slow , unremitting work from day to day , when guided by a true physical instinct and a well trained and well balanced mind .
The almost feverish haste of many may well feel rebuked when it is remembered that Kerr was 51 years of age ere he ventured to publish his first paper , and that every detail of his work , when it was made known , stood Dr. James , C.B. v the test of the scrutiny of the best scientific investigators of the time .
As has been truly said by another , the name of this quiet and unostentatious teacher and experimentalist will he linked for all time with that of Faraday .
He would not himself have desired any better immortality .
A. Gr .
Dr. JAMES BELL , C.B. , 1825\#151 ; 1908 .
Dr. James Bell , C.B. , formerly Principal of the Chemical Laboratory at Somerset House , was a native of County Armagh , and was born in 1825 .
For his chemical education Mr. Bell was mainly indebted to the late Professor Williamson .
Entering the Inland Revenue Laboratory as an assistant to Mr. George Phillips , he became Deputy Principal on the death of Mr. Kay , and on the retirement of Mr. Phillips in 1874 , Principal , holding that position until his resignation in 1894 , when the laboratory was reorganised and placed upon its present footing .
Dr. Bell 's succession to the Principalship was nearly coincident with the parliamentary inquiry into the working of the first Food and Drugs Act of 1872 .
One result of this inquiry was to make the Somerset House Laboratory a sort of Court of Appeal in cases of disputed analyses , the amended Act of 1875 enabling either party to a suit to refer the incriminated article of food , drink , or drug to the Commissioners of Inland Revenue for the opinion of their chemical advisers .
Dr. Bell thus became identified with the subject of food-analysis and practically all his published work has reference to it .
For his services in this connection he was made a Fellow of the Society in 1884 , and , two years later , an honorary Doctor of Science of the Royal University of Ireland .
He had previously obtained the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy of Erlangen .
He was made a Companion of the Bath in 1889 .
Dr. Bell was one of the original Members of the Institute of Chemistry and was President of that body in 1888 .
He died at Hove on March 31 , 1908 , and was buried at Ewell , Surrey , where he had resided when Principal of the Inland Revenue Laboratory .
T. E. T. VI E. L. J. ELLERY , 1827\#151 ; 1908 .
Robert Lewis John Ellery , C.M.G. , Government Astronomer of Victoria from the early fifties until his retirement in 1895 , died at his residence , Observatory House , Domain , Melbourne , on the morning of January 14 , 1908 , at the age of eighty-one .
Twelve months before he had been stricken with paralysis , hut had recovered , and , though his illness had left him feeble , he was in very fair health until the end of December , 1907 , when his diminished strength was overtaxed by a spell of exceptionally hot weather .
The review of Mr. Ellery 's long life of scientific activity takes us back to the beginnings of official astronomy and meteorology in Australia .
Foundations for the work had been laid by private enterprise , for , so early as 1821 , Sir Thomas Brisbane had , on being appointed Governor of New South Wales , erected the Paramatta Observatory at his own expense , and initiated a fine series of observations , made by himself and his assistants , Dunlop and Riimker .
But this noble private work came to an end about 1848 , and it was not until some years later that the Governments of three Australian Colonies nearly simultaneously decided to establish observatories .
Work was commenced at Williamstown , near Melbourne , by Ellery in 1853 , by Todd at Adelaide in 1852 , and by Scott at Sydney in 1856 .
The early history of Ellery 's work at Williamstown has fortunately been preserved for us in a letter to the Astronomer Royal , then President of the Royal Astronomical Society ( ' Mon .
Not .
, RA .
S. , ' xv , p. 154 ) , and a few extracts may be given here .
The letter is headed with the curious title , " Account of Operations connected with the Advancement of Commercial Astronomy in Australia , " which is more probably due to the recipient than to the sender .
In June , 1853 , a time-ball signal\#151 ; visible to the shipping in Hobson 's Bay\#151 ; was erected on the mast or flagstaff , Gellibrand 's Point .
Soon after its erection I was appointed to take the necessary observations for the regulation of this signal .
At that time two chronometers ( neither of them first-class instruments ) and two indifferent sextants , with a small artificial horizon , composed the staff of instruments..In August a small transit instrument was offered for sale ; and bought by Government , with the works of a new regulator clock by Evans , of Birmingham .
Authority was given me to get a room built for the instrument and clock , which was done , attached to my quarters .
With these instruments the time-signal has been given daily , Sundays excepted , up to February , 1854 , when a few instruments which had been ordered by the Colonial Government arrived , consisting of 30-inch transit by Potter ( late Bates ) , regulator-clock mercurial pendulum by Frodsham , sextant by Potter ... ... Up to this present time no other addition has been made with the exception of one or two plain meteorological instruments ... ... ..The time-keeping is , of course , the main object at present : but , in addition , I am tabulating a regular list of zenith and circumpolar stars ( of course of right ascension only , as the instrument has only a setting circle reading to minutes ) .
I have , I think , determined the longitude of the observatory pretty closely , from the mean R. L. J. Ellery .
vu -of 35 sets of moon-culminations .
... .
The exact instant of the drop of the Williams-town time-ball is marked by my only assistant , my wife ; and if any error occurs , from wind or otherwise , it is thus accurately accounted for , and published in the daily papers .
It is proposed to erect time-balls on the electric telegraph stations , which are now in .course of erection at Geelong and Port Phillip Heads , so as to make every use of the observatory possible in giving mean time to different parts of the colony . . . . .
The sum of \#163 ; 2500 was voted by the Legislative Council for the building a stone observatory at Williamstown : this has not been done yet , but the Governor has placed in the estimates for next year the sum of \#163 ; 660 for the purchase of astronomical and meteorological instruments , according to a list of what would absolutely be required that I was instructed to send in .
( Transit Circle and Equatorial by Troughton and Simms , etc. ) ... .
I had omitted to say that since December last I have kept a regular journal of three-hourly meteorological observations\#151 ; at least so far as my limited staff of instruments allowed me , having only a simple but very good pediment barometer , Zambra 's thermometer , and aneroid barometer .
Having neither rain-gauge , anemometer , or hygrometer , of course my observations are very limited ; but , such as they are , they represent some interesting facts with regard to Australian meteorology .
Mr. Ellery was the son of an English surgeon , Mr. John Ellery , and was .born at Cranleigli , in Surrey , on July 14 , 1827 .
He was educated for the medical profession , but went out to Australia in 1851 , " tempted by the \#166 ; discovery of gold .
" It is stated that he practised as a surgeon in Williamstown , but it seems clear that this cannot have been for long , and that his duties as Government Astronomer must have claimed his time and attention .
It may be added here that he was twice married , his first wife the " only assistant " of the above extract\#151 ; whom he married in 1853 , died in 1856 ; and in 1858 he married her sister , who survives him .
The ladies \#166 ; were daughters of the late Dr. John Shields , of Launceston .
Returning to the proposal for the observatory , it was apparently made in a , letter to the public press by Mr. Ellery himself , in the interests of the shipping .
The suggestion was adopted , and he was asked to carry it into practice .
It is recorded that " the work at first was slight , and Mr. Ellery , besides being Government Astronomer , was storekeeper of the marine depot .
But developments soon followed .
In 1856 the Government determined upon a geodetic survey of Victoria .
, and Mr. Ellery was made director of this work , which lasted from 1856 to 1874 , in addition to his other duties .
Indeed , his attention was claimed in many directions .
We have seen above how he began to make meteorological observations of value , and this work developed rapidly in Australia , so that in September , 1888 , he presided at a Meteorological Conference of the Directors of Australasian Observatories , held at the Melbourne Observatory , with the view of improving intercolonial meteorology .
His name is given as Colonel R. L. J. Ellery , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. , which reminds us of his career as a citizen soldier .
In 1873 he organised the Victorian Torpedo Corps , which subsequently became the Submarine Mining Engineers .
He commanded the corps until 1889 , when he retired with the rank of lieutenant-colonel .
He was one of the founders of the Royal Society of Victoria , and was its President from 1856 to 1884 .
Indeed , " he was one of the originators , " writes his successor , Mr. Baracchi , " of every scientific viii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
movement in Australia during half a century .
" The close of his career was fittingly marked by his Presidency over the Australasian Association for the Advancement of Science at the Melbourne meeting of 1900 .
The main work of a State observatory , connected closely with a geodetic survey , naturally consisted in meridian observations , and several valuable catalogues of stars were published during Mr. Ellery 's directorate .
The first contains the observations of 546 stars made in the years 1853\#151 ; 1863 at Williamstown , where Mr. Ellery began work .
But in 1863 the observatory was transferred to the Government Domain in Melbourne , and the first Melbourne Catalogue , published in 1874 , contains the observations of 1227 stars from 1863 to 1870 .
The second ( 1211 stars , epoch 1880 ) , published in 1890 , contains the observations from 1871 to 1884 , while the third ( epoch 1890 ) is still awaiting publication for lack of funds .
The main work of preparing these catalogues was undertaken by the first assistant , Mr. E. J. White , the story of whose appointment in 1858 is thus related in the Melbourne * Argus ' of January 15th last:\#151 ; In that year Donatfs great comet appeared .
The University professors\#151 ; Professor Wilson and others\#151 ; wrote to ' The Argus * complaining that there were in Victoria no instruments capable of being used for proper observation .
However , among the motley population of the diggings an astronomer was working .
This was Mr. E. J. White , now F.R.A.S. , who in the intervals of sinking holes and felling trees used to make astronomical observations from his log hut in California Gully , Bendigo .
He wrote an account of his observations of the comet , and sent it to ' The Argus .
' Within a few days two troopers rode up to his claim to announce to him that the Governor contemplated making him a Government astronomer .
He hesitated about leaving the free-and-easy digger 's life , but eventually joined Mr. Ellery in the observatory work .
The appointment of this able assistant was not the only result of the appearance of Donati 's comet .
The interest aroused by the event led ultimately to the transference of the observatory to Melbourne , and also to the erection of the great Melbourne reflector .
Professor Wilson , who was Secretary of the Board of Visitors of the Observatory , and was no doubt assisted by Mr. Ellery 's advice , made representations to the Government that Lord Rosse had discovered changes in some of the northern nebulae , and that it was important to examine the nebulae of the Southern Hemisphere in continuation of this work , and that , in consequence , the erection of a large telescope in Melbourne would " materially promote the advancement of science .
" The Government were urged to consult scientific men in England on the matter .
Enquiries were accordingly made , and reached England in October , 1862 .
The project for a large telescope in the Southern Hemisphere had been discussed in 1852\#151 ; 1853 at some length by Mr. Nasmyth , Lord Rosse , Colonel Sabine , Sir D. Brewster , Mr. Piazzi Smyth and his father , Mr. Lassell , Sir J. W. Lubbock , Sir John Herschel , Dr. Robinson , Colonel Cooper , Lord Wrottesley , the Astronomer Royal , and others , but the application to Government had come to nothing owing to the Crimean War .
The correspondence was revived , and the general opinion was in favour of a large reflector , either similar to Mr. Lassell 's four-foot equatorial , which had R. L. J. Ellery .
IX been successfully at work in Malta for a year , or after a different design by Mr. Grubb .
While the choice was under consideration , Mr. Lassell , in 1864 , offered to present his telescope to the Colonial Government , if it were thought suitable for the work .
But the generous offer was ultimately declined in favour of a new instrument , which was ordered from Mr. Grubb in 1865 .
The construction of it took three years , and it was carefully tested at Dublin in 1868 , to the great satisfaction of the Committee of the Royal Society appointed for the purpose .
The instrument was accordingly sent out to Melbourne and erected , but Mr. Ellery at once reported its performance disappointing , and there followed a period of grave anxiety and doubt .
From the correspondence , which was printed for private circulation , it appears that the fault lay chiefly in one of the two speculum mirrors\#151 ; the other one gave much better results .
The maker attributed the trouble to the manner in which a thin coating of varnish , with which the mirrors had been protected for transit , had been removed by Mr. Le Sueur , the assistant instructed in England and sent out with the telescope , and Mr. Le Sueur ultimately resigned his appointment .
But Mr. Ellery 's reports indicate other possible causes for the poor definition .
One thing clearly emerges from the printed account\#151 ; that Mr. Ellery showed great skill in dealing with a very trying situation .
In spite of the unexpected difficulties he got the big instrument to the work for which it was designed , and many drawings of nebulae were made .
A few of these were published in 1885 in a volume labelled Part I , and in the Preface we read : " it is now intended to issue the drawings , descriptions , observer 's notes , etc. , in parts .
" But no other numbers have since been issued .
The examples given in Part I show that much information of value was obtained , and though in some ways such work has been superseded by photography , the epoch at which they were made gives a special value to these observations .
It seems very desirable that they should see the light of publication .
Meanwhile , in order to get the best possible results with the telescope , Mr. Ellery at once set about learning to refigure and polish the mirrors , and he ultimately refigured them with success in 1889\#151 ; 90 .
He was able to report that the " performance of the great telescope is now certainly better than it ever has been previously " ( ' Mon .
Hot .
, R.A.S. ' li , p. 231 ) .
It was one of the factors in Mr. Ellery 's success that he had considerable mechanical skill , and took pleasure in doing things of a mechanical kind to the closing years of his life .
Such skill is always valuable to an astronomer , especially when at a distance from instrument makers .
For , instance , when it was found that the rdseaux for the work of the Astrographic Chart could not be transmitted to Australia without the appearance of numerous pinholes in the silver film , which rendered them useless , Mr. Ellery promptly devised a plan of making reseauxfor himself , by ruling a film of asphalt varnish in the observatory ruling machine .
He applied a parabolic governor to the chronograph , and invented in 1868 a chronograph-pen , which anticipated the modern fountain-pen ; he devised a dark field micrometer and x Obituary Notices of Fellows .
made a clock , and doubtless many other instances of his skill are left unrecorded .
The self-reliance , which necessarily comes from working at a great distance from other workers , appears not only in his mechanical inventiveness , but in his statement of scientific results .
We may take as an example the following extract from his report in February , 1892 .
He was just undertaking , at the age of sixty-five , a totally new piece of work , viz. , the Melbourne share of the Astrographic Chart .
The telescope had arrived in December , 1890 , and had been set up in January , 1891 .
Observers had to be trained , and , before the end of 1891 , when the report was written , the supply of plates had failed .
Nevertheless , as the result of this early few months ' work , Mr. Ellery announces that " to gain one magnitude ( ratio 2,512 ) , the time of exposure must be increased 3'16 times , or , to gain two magnitudes , it must be increased ten times " ( ' Mon .
Not .
, ' lii , p. 265 ) .
This is a definite statement on a matter which has been much debated in the years since elapsed .
The writer of this notice , in 1905 , analysed the result of extensive investigations made at Greenwich , and arrived at identically the same result as Ellery had obtained and announced fifteen years earlier ( see 'Mon .
Not .
, ' lxv , p. 763 , line 29 ) ; and other workers have independently reached a similar conclusion .
Ellery takes high rank as a pioneer .
He met and overcame nearly all the difficulties associated with the starting of scientific work in a new land .
One alone proved somewhat intractable\#151 ; the difficulty of getting published the observations made with so much courage and toil .
The observations made with the great telescope and the Third Melbourne Catalogue are referred to above , but there are also the zone observations .
The project for a great zone-survey of the Southern Hemisphere has now been almost forgotten , and yet a great deal of work was done under this scheme .
The Melbourne zones were from 150 ' to 160 ' N.P.D. , and were reported nearly complete in 1878 ; but nothing has been published , and now that one photographic Durch-musterung has been carried through at the Cape , and another of greater accuracy is under way , it seems possible that these earlier measures never will be published .
But we must not forget that two Melbourne catalogues were published in good time , and a third , with possibly also the lithographs of the nebulae , may still be saved .
In any case it is earnestly to be hoped that the work on the Astrographic Catalogue , initiated so ably by Ellery in the closing years of his long career , will not suffer in the same way , and that , profiting by the experience of the past , the printing of it may be undertaken in the near future .
H. H. T. SPENCER COMPTON CAVENDISH , DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE , 1833\#151 ; 1908 .
Spencer Compton Cavendish , eighth Duke of Devonshire , eldest son of the Earl of Burlington , who subsequently became seventh Duke of Devonshire , was born July 23,1833 .
He was educated privately under his father 's eye , who , it is said\#151 ; and in all probability truly said\#151 ; wished the defects of his own education to be corrected in that which he gave his sons .
The elder Duke had taken very high honours at Cambridge , both in mathematics and classics , at a time when these were the only branches of knowledge in which students had any opportunity of distinguishing themselves at the old Universities of England ; but concentration on these subjects had not well qualified him to take the prominent part in politics and in the Senate to which his social position called him , and he felt that a general education in a wider field was more important for his sons than academic distinction .
To Trinity College , Cambridge , Lord Cavendish , as he was then called , went in due course , and though he did not emulate his father in the triposes , nevertheless took a good place in the second class of mathematical honours in 1854 , and received the degree of M.A. , to which , as a nobleman , he was ^ entitled under the statutes of the University then in force , after residing two years and passing the examination .
Very soon afterwards he entered on a political career , for he was attached to Earl Granville 's mission to Russia at the close of the Crimean War .
He had not the natural gifts of vivacity and readiness in conversation which make a man shine in social gatherings , and the coldness of Lord Granville 's reception at the Court of the Czar could hardly have tended to make his .
position more agreeable , so his first diplomatic mission was also his last .
He was in a far better fitting place when , in 1857 , he entered , as Liberal Member for North Lancashire , the House of Commons , where the character he had inherited from his father , of thoughtfulness , sincerity , and devotion to duty , was sure to be appreciated when he came to be known .
He made few mistakes , was slow in making up his mind , but stuck to his opinions when he had formed them .
After the general election in 1859 he passed suddenly , and to the public unexpectedly , into the front rank of the Liberal Party .
The occasion was the Address at the opening of the new Parliament , when he moved the amendment expressing want of confidence in the Ministers , which was carried in a full House , and turned Lord Derby out of office .
By this time his father had succeeded to the Dukedom of Devonshire , and he had taken the title of Marquis of Hartington , and was doubtless selected from the independent members of his party to move the amendment because he was the representative of a great Whig xii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
family .
This was , however , merely the occasion of his coming to the front ; it was the confidence inspired when his personal character came to be known that kept him there .
For he was not an eloquent speaker , nor great in debate , though very painstaking in making sure of his ground , and his convictions were always well defined in his own mind , so that he never failed to give them expression in a way which made them clear to his hearers .
Of course he took office in the new Ministry , and soon became a Cabinet Minister .
The variety of offices which he subsequently held is remarkable .
Beginning at the Admiralty , he was at different times Secretary for War , for Ireland and for India , was Postmaster-General , and President of the Council , including at that time the Committees of Council on Education , both Elementary and in Science and Art .
He seemed equally well suited for all these posts , because he was capable of taking the trouble to make himself acquainted with the business he had to do , whatever it might be , and the sense of duty which impelled him to try and do it as thoroughly well as lay in his power .
He was a steady supporter of the Irish Church Disestablishment , and lost his seat in North Lancashire in consequence , a consequence , perhaps , in some degree due to the racial antipathy of the Lancashire folk to the Irish , who competed with them for work while content with a lower scale of living .
As Irish Secretary he found the management of Irish affairs no easy task , and had to promote the passing of the Peace Preservation Act , in spite of Mr. Gladstone 's unwilling attitude and his own intimate personal friendship with his chief .
Other troubles beside the agrarian one confronted him in Ireland , which he met with consistent firmness , but it all led him to form that judgment of the Irish national character which made him subsequently a firm opponent of Mr. Gladstone 's Home Buy policy for Ireland , and an outspoken adversary of any course which would endanger the Union .
His independent judgment did not prevent Mr. Gladstone from urging him to undertake , in 1875 , the Liberal leadership of the House of Commons , nor him from maintaining his respect and friendship for Mr. Gladstone .
For five years he led the Opposition , a most difficult and onerous task , discharged in a way most honourable to himself with complete consistency to his principles .
He had an innate distrust of measures prompted by sentiment or by optimistic views of human nature not warranted by experience , and firmly maintained that organised crime and intimidation could only be met by exceptional legislation .
After the defeat of the Conservative Party at the General Election in 1880 , Lord Hartington was sent for by the Queen to form the new Ministry ; but he pointed out that Mr. Gladstone 's powerful personality made it well nigh impossible for a Liberal Ministry to succeed under any chief but him .
Lord Granville took the same view , and both helped to persuade Mr. Gladstone to return to office .
Lord Hartington at first took post under him at the India Office , and later went to his old post at the War Office .
He worked loyally and manfully under Mr. Gladstone as long as he could honestly do so .
How great was the strain under which this was done will be understood Sjpencer Compton Cavendish , Duke of Devonshire .
xiii when it is borne in mind that in this period the Egyptian Soudan was evacuated , and he had to defend in the House of Commons the delay of the relief of Khartoum , a delay entirely due to his colleagues and contrary to his own advice .
In this period , too , occurred the assassination of his brother , Lord Frederic Cavendish , which debarred him from taking a part in Irish affairs , to which he could be supposed to have been biased by personal feelings .
As a member of the Government he gave a general support to Mr. Gladstone 's Franchise Bill , but took no prominent part in the debates in the House of Commons on the question whether the franchise should be enlarged without a simultaneous redistribution of seats .
Outside , however , his speeches materially assisted the sort of compromise by which both the Franchise and the Redistribution Bills ultimately passed .
Very soon after this the Government was defeated on the Budget and the Ministry resigned , and Lord Hartington did not resume office until the coalition of Unionists ten years later .
In the short interval that followed with Lord Salisbury in office , when Mr. Gladstone indicated his leaning to Home Rule , Lord Hartington made it quite clear that he would make no further concessions in that direction , and he voted against the motion which turned Lord Salisbury out .
On the same occasion a large section of Liberals , including so staunch a member of the party as Mr. John Bright , showed their distrust of Mr. Gladstone by not voting at all .
This breach with his old friend and leader must have been very painful to both of them , but Lord Hartington was firm in the position he had taken , and , when Mr. Gladstone 's Home Rule Bill came on , spoke against it , both in and out of the House , putting his arguments , without rhetorical effort , in a clear , logical form , which was extremely effective , and brought about the defeat of the Bill at the second reading .
Lord Salisbury , who was then asked by the Queen to form the new Ministry , offered to make way for Lord Hartington , but he declined the offer , considering that his following was not yet strong enough or sufficiently consolidated .
However , in the Parliament thereupon elected he and the Liberal Unionists supported Lord Salisbury , while they were nevertheless ready to rejoin the rest of the Liberal party if the Home Rule policy were dropped .
The hope of such a result gradually faded ; nevertheless Lord Hartington 's efforts to keep all the Unionists in line were so successful that when , in 1892 , Mr. Gladstone returned to power , he had not a sufficient majority to carry a measure of Home Rule .
Lord Hartington had become Duke of Devonshire in 1891 , and it was he who moved , in the House of Lords , the rejection of the second Home Rule Bill , when he was supported by many of the Liberal Peers .
The triumph of his exertions appeared at the general election in 1895 , when the Unionists came in with a majority hitherto almost unexampled , which invited the formation of a Ministry including the leading men of both wings .
The Duke , along with others of his following , notably Mr. Joseph Chamberlain , took office under Lord Salisbury .
His office was that of President of the Council , and he held it xiv Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
until the reconstruction of Mr. Balfour 's Ministry in 1903 .
That office did not involve much administrative work , though it made him responsible for the control of the Education Department .
If his influence there was not .
much in evidence , it was not because he lacked interest in the education of the country\#151 ; how important that was in his eyes was abundantly shown elsewhere\#151 ; but because the action of the education office was so hampered by the jealousies of different denominations and parties in religion that the question of the best education for the masses had to be subordinate to the question of what would work at all smoothly .
The two education bills of which he had charge and passed were , in fact , compromises to which he assented , because better seemed at the time impracticable .
He had at the same time other work to do .
Some years earlier he had been Chairman of a Royal Commission on the defence of the Empire , and the report of that Commission had met with general approval , but had led to no action .
One of its most important recommendations had been the appointment of a permanent Council of Imperial Defence , independent of parties .
This ; proposal was now revived , and the Duke became the first President of this Council .
In 1903 , when Mr. Chamberlain raised the question of fiscal reform , the Duke did not object to an enquiry as to the effect of our fiscal policy on our relations with the Colonies , and on industrial competition with other countries , but the question seems to have presented itself differently to him when he found that enquiry meant , in the minds of many of his colleagues in the Ministry , the justification of a foregone conclusion which was opposed to his firm convictions .
The result was his withdrawal from the Ministry and a split of the Liberal-Unionist party .
He insisted that any tax on food must weaken us by pressing on our working population , and that duties imposed by way of retaliation were neither justifiable nor likely to give a firm standing in competition ; nevertheless , he never wavered in his belief that the Union was good policy .
He was now seventy years of age , and though he continued to take part in the debates in Parliament , he was more independent of party , and of course to the outer world appeared a less prominent figure than heretofore .
Apart from politics , he found time and energy to take an active part in many other matters of public concern .
In 1891 he was chosen Chancellor of the University of Cambridge in succession to his father .
He filled the office until his death , and showed the same high sense of duty and the same willingness , at the expense of much time and personal trouble , to promote the interests of the University and to enlarge its influence and usefulness , as his father had shown before him .
The awakening of the University from the lethargy engendered by having been , for two and a-half centuries , hardly stirred from without by any but religious and political controversies , while its Chancellors were chosen for the influence they could exert in maintaining its privileges and independence , had begun from within under the inspiration of the Prince Consort , who was Chancellor from 1847 Spencer Compton Cavendish , Duke of Devonshire .
xv to 1861 .
Originally a chartered trade union of independent teachers under no control but that of the Chancellor , elected by themselves , it had remained almost wholly unendowed .
Most of the professors and all the other officers of the University were paid by fees alone , until nearly the end of the Prince Consort 's tenure of the Chancellorship .
The Colleges , quite independent corporations , mostly well endowed , monopolised the care of the young students and the direction of their studies .
Want of funds , more than anything else , has hindered the University in enlarging its curriculum , and to remedy this the late Duke devoted a great amount of patient and self-denying labour , continued quite up to the end of his life .
His father had early seen the difficulty in which the University was involved , and had himself built and equipped the Cavendish Laboratory for Physical Investigation , which under Clerk Maxwell , Lord Eayleigh , and J. J. Thomson has become world famous , and so much frequented that it has had twice to be enlarged .
Other laboratories have been built by the University , partly with money borrowed on the security of the annual contributions from the Colleges , assisted by liberal donations from individuals interested in the sciences with which they were connected .
The demand rapidly outran the means of meeting it , and at an influential gathering of members of the University at Devonshire House it was decided to make an appeal for contributions .
The subscription list was opened with \#163 ; 10,000 from the Chancellor and a like sum from Lord Kothschild .
The appeal took the form of a circular letter written by the Chancellor , at first to the members of the University and ultimately to the public .
But the Chancellor exerted himself by writing in person to the wealthy people of his acquaintance who were likely to be interested in higher education , and presided at the meetings which were called at intervals to keep up an interest in the movement .
The donations have exceeded \#163 ; 100,000 , but the Duke was greatly disappointed that they did not amount to much more , when half a million had been asked for to meet urgent needs ; and he took much pains to ascertain why the interest in higher education of the University type was so much less in England than in the United States and Canada .
He found that there was a wide-spread belief amongst the men who had amassed large fortunes that the education given at Cambridge was not the best preparation for the practical business of life , and especially that time was wasted in the study of the classical languages without , in most cases , any adequate result , and he did not fail to press this on the attention of the leading members of the University .
When the Liberal Party came into power in 1905 he sympathised with the proposal , which arose within the University , to endeavour to get an Act of Parliament to modify its constitution so as to give those actually doing the work of the University fuller control of the courses of study , and was disappointed that it went forward so slowly .
Apart from his desire for a general widening of the range of study , he took a particular interest in the development at Cambridge of a school of scientific agriculture .
Before he became Chancellor he was a member of a syndicate , appointed by the University in 1890 , to consider the promotion of education VOL. LXXXII.\#151 ; A. c xvi Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
in that subject , and later it was through his influence that the Drapers ' Company provided a liberal endowment for the Professorship of Agriculture .
When the school had taken root , he again came to the front , in the endeavour to obtain subscriptions for suitable buildings and further equipment for it .
He was Again disappointed in the result .
The amount subscribed , though a substantial help to the University , was inadequate , and he remarked : " We must hope that the fruit of our labour will come in legacies .
" It cannot be said that his labours as Chancellor were a failure .
The expansion of the University in regard to teachers and taught , and in the opportunities for learning , has at no time been greater than under his presidency , and he will always be remembered there as a benefactor .
In the matter of higher education Cambridge had no monopoly of his attention .
In 187*7 he was chosen Lord Eector of the University of Glasgow , and quite recently he was elected Chancellor of the Victoria University at Manchester .
He was some time President of the National Association for the Promotion of Technical and Secondary Education , and the success of the local grammar schools in the parts of the country with which he was specially connected always had his sympathetic regard .
Indeed , he was always ready to do his part in promoting the welfare of the districts in which his property lay .
Eor fifty years he was Provincial Grand Master of the Freemasons for Derbyshire .
Rather late in life , in 1892 , he married Louise , widow of the seventh Duke of Manchester , and left no family .
He had never been physically a very strong man .
His weak organs were his lungs .
In 1904 , when the King went to Cambridge to open the Sedgwick Museum , he was laid up with a bronchial attack , and unable to receive him .
On June 12 , 1907 , he went to Cambridge to confer honorary degrees on the Prime Minister and a group of distinguished persons .
He performed the duties of his office , spoke well at the dinner in the Hall of Trinity College , and to the public appeared to be in his usual health ; but to those near him who knew him it was quite plain that he was far from well , and that it was only his strength of will to do his duty which carried him through .
It was but a few days later that he was prostrated by a severe attack while on a visit to the King at Windsor Castle .
This caused the greatest alarm to his friends , but he very slowly recovered , and in November wrote that he was quite convalescent , both fit and inclined to attend to business , and asked for information of what was going on in the University , particularly about the movement to obtain a reform of the constitution of that body .
He spent the winter in Egypt , and in the spring was to return to England , and contemplated making , after Easter , his first public appearance at Manchester as Chancellor of the Victoria University .
In descending the Nile he caught a chill , which brought on another severe attack , from which he rallied but never wholly recovered , and later , on his way home , at Cannes , he had a relapse which proved fatal on March 24 , 1908 . . .
The Duke will certainly live in the history of his country , but it is too Colonel Andrew Wilson Baird , xvii soon to estimate the position which he will occupy in that history , and were it otherwise the writer of this notioe is not qualified to foretell it .
He would assuredly have been Prime Minister if no personality so towering as Gladstone 's had stood in the way .
He was not the originator of any great line of political aotion , nor ambitious of such a distinction .
But his character was essentially English , patriotic , liberal , and fair-minded .
He never suffered sentiment to obscure his vision , and was never earned away by the zeal of other people .
Always practical , he trusted to experience against theory , and his policy was to deal with men as their actions showed them to be , not as he wished them to he .
Careful in forming his judgments , he had little occasion to review them , and did not flinch in carrying them out .
Gr .
jj .
L. y* COLONEL ANDREW WILSON BAIRD , 1842\#151 ; 1908* Andrew Wilson Baird , the eldest son of Thomas Baird of Cults , Aberdeen , was born on April 26 , 1842 .
He received his earlier education at Marischal College , Aberdeen , and in 1859 he entered the Military College of the East India Company at Addiscombe .
When that college was closed in 1860 he was transferred with the other cadets to the Military Academy at Woolwich .
He obtained his commission as Lieutenant in the Royal Engineers in December , 1861 , and after the usual course of instruction in military engineering at Chatham , he went to India in February , 1864.1* In India he served under the Bombay Government as Special Assistant m the Harbour Defences , and up to the end of 1865 had charge of the construction of certain harbour batteries .
He was then made Special Assistant Engineer in the reclamations of the foreshore at Bombay .
From January until July , 1868 he was taken from his peaceful work to serve as Assistant Field Engineer in the Abyssinian Expedition under Sir Robert Napier , afterwards Lord Napier of Magdala .
He was mentioned in despatches for his conduct of the embarkation of troops and baggage , and received the war medal for that expedition .
Shortly after his return to India Lieutenant Baird was appointed to the Trigonometrical Survey of India and was attached to the Triangulation * This Notice is founded on information supplied by Mrs. Baird , and on the private knowledge of the author , and on his correspondence with Mr. Koberts and others .
+ The dates of his several commissions are as follows :\#151 ; lieutenant , 1861 ; captain , 1874 } major , 1881 ; lieutenant-colonel , 1888 ; colonel , 1893 .
xviii Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
Parties in Kathiawar and Guzerat .
He suffered much from the extreme heat in this arid part of the country , and was compelled to take leave of absence in England in the spring of 1870 .
His zeal and accuracy in 'scientific work had become known to General ( then Colonel ) Walker , the Surveyor-General , and it was whilst he was in England that he was selected to organise the tidal work in India .
The admirable manner in which he carried out his task naturally led ultimately in 1885 to his election to the Royal Society .
In the first instance , tidal observations were only undertaken by the Survey of India with the object of determining the mean sea-level as a datum for the Trigonometrical Survey .
The first observations were of a very imperfect character , and it was not until 1855 that a self-registering tide-gauge was used , and even then the observations were restricted to a month in duration .
At a later date Colonel Baird himself gave the following account* of the origin of the tidal survey:\#151 ; " Subsequently to 1855 it was desired to investigate the relations between the levels of land and sea on the coasts of the Gulf of Cutch , which were believed by geologists to be gradually changing .
This necessitated a more exact determination of the mean sea-level than had hitherto sufficed for the operations of the Survey : and thus , in 1872 , General Walker , who was then Superintendent of the Survey , decided on having the observations at the stations in the Gulf of Cutch carried on in accordance with the recommendations of the Tidal Committee of the British Association , by selfregistering gauges set up for at least a year to determine the existing relations of land and sea , and again for another year when a sufficient interval had elapsed for a sensible change to have taken place.f " I was then ( 1872 ) in England , and was deputed by the Secretary of State for India to study the details of tidal registrations and the reduction of observations by harmonic analysis , in accordance with the method suggested by Sir William Thomson .
I also made the necessary arrangements to secure self-registering barometers and anemometers , to indicate the atmospheric conditions prevailing at each tidal station concurrently with the changes of sea-level .
1 then proceeded ( in December , 1872 ) to India , selected sites for three stations in the Gulf of Cutcb , tested all the instruments to be employed at Bombay before sending them to their destinations ( where no artificers would be available to modify them ) , fixed them in position , and supervised the registrations which were carried on for a year at each station .
" In 1877 the Government of India issued instructions to the effect that systematic tidal observations should be undertaken at all the principal Indian ports , and at other ports on the coast-lines where results might be acquired which would be of general scientific interest apart from their practical usefulness in affording data for the calculations of the rise and fall of the * Preface to Baird 's ' Manual of Tidal Observations .
' t These stations have recently been reopened and the previous mean levels have been .
ound to be virtually unchanged.\#151 ; G. H. D. Colonel Andrew Wilson Baird .
xix tides and the construction of tide-tables for the purposes of navigation .
I was entrusted with the carrying out of the operations , under the direction of General Walker .
" As indicated in the foregoing quotation it was determined by the Government of India that the tidal survey should be as thorough as possible , and the method of harmonic analysis , then recently inaugurated by Sir William Thomson , was to be adopted .
Mr. Edward Roberts had already prepared the requisite computation forms for a Committee of the British Association , and the tides at a few ports had already been reduced under his supervision .
The construction of an instrument for the mechanical prediction of tides from harmonic constants was already in contemplation , although it was not until 1879 that the first tidal predictions , those for the year 1880 , were actually produced .
After the surveys in the Gulf of Cutch to which Baird refers , he was sent to England in 1876 with the object of studying the details of the methods to be employed .
Whilst he was there he was in constant communication with General Walker ( himself on leave ) , Lord Kelvin , and Mr. Roberts .
Mr. Roberts reduced the observations at the three ports of the Gulf of Cutch , and Baird had good opportunities of studying the methods .
When Baird was placed in charge of this new department he had to rely almost entirely on his own initiative .
His knowledge of mathematics had naturally become somewhat rusty from disuse , and moreover he could have had no knowledge of the particular mathematical developments required in the method of harmonic analysis .
He also knew but little of tide-gauges , of the methods of installation , and of the various mechanical difficulties involved in the successful use of that instrument .
His work was of a very varied character , for he had to determine all the details of the installation of tide-gauges , to arrange for their supervision , and for the accuracy of the readings .
He had further to organise an office for computers at Poona , in which he was assisted by Mr. Connor .
When all this had been done it remained to work the machine he had created .
The tide-curves had to be collected from the several stations , corrected for clock errors , and measured .
The resulting numbers had to be submitted to the laborious processes of reduction , and the resulting constants transmitted to Mr. Roberts for the production of the requisite tide-tables by means of the tide-predicting instrument which had been constructed for the Indian Government .
It speaks volumes for Baird 's scientific power and for his administrative ability that the organisation which he devised has remained unchanged from the time of its initiation up to now .
Such undertakings as the creation of a new department naturally do not attain to their full development at once , and we have forestalled matters by giving this general sketch of the work .
Thus for 1880 tidal predictions were only published for two ports , for 1881 for eight ports , and for 1882 for XX Obituary Notices of Fellows deceased .
15 ports .
The increase was gradual , and the tables for 1908 contain predictions for 40 eastern ports .
I first met Baird at Lord Kelvin 's house in December , 1882 , when we discussed ' a revision of the mathematical development of the harmonic method .
The result was the report to the British Association in 1883 , in which certain changes of procedure were recommended .
From that time until the end of Baird 's tenure of his position in the Survey of India I was in constant communication with him .
Perhaps the most convincing proof of the care and foresight with which the tidal department was founded is afforded by the fact that there is nothing to record as to its subsequent career , but it is obvious that the work demanded , and still demands , constant attention to scientific and administrative details .
Towards the end of Baird 's tenure of his post he wrote a useful handbook , entitled 'A Manual of Tidal Observations .
' It was published in 1886 , * and a passage from the preface has been quoted above as to the early history of the department .
The work contains a valuable account of his practical experience , together with full instructions for the application of the harmonic method of reduction .
; In 1881 Baird was sent as Commissioner for India to the International Congress of Geography at Venice .
It is remarked in the report of the meeting that his communication on levelling and on tidal work shows the great progress made in this branch of science .
A medal oi the first class was awarded to him for his exhibit of the drawings of a tide-gauge showing the improvements introduced by him .
} On his return to India in the spring of 1883 he resumed his position in charge of the tidal and levelling operations , until in July 1885 , he was appointed to officiate for Colonel Riddell , R.E.\#187 ; on leave , as Mint Master at Calcutta .
He subsequently acted for tylonel Riddell and General White as Mint Master on several occasions both at Calcutta and Bombay , and m the intervals he held the appointment of Assistant Surveyor-General .
Finally , in 1889 , he was permanently appointed Master of the Mint at Calcutta , which position he held until his retirement in 1897 .
During his tenure of the Mastership he carried out an almost complete reorganisation of the manufacturing department of the Mint , whereby economy and efficiency were largely promoted .
... In 1895\#151 ; 96 the Government of India saw reason to fear that the coinage of India was becoming seriously worn , and it .
was suspected that some of the older issues ought to be withdrawn .
Baird was charged with an enquiry into the state of the coinage .
His report } contains an elaborate investigation of .
* By Taylor and Francis , t See Report of the ' Terzo Congresso pp. 237 u vi ____Geografico Internazionale tenuto a Venezia , 1881 , -8 ; also ' Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society , ' December , 1881 .
_ _ -m mm m m ^ i f 1 71 / " N 1 _ 1 A mWT T\gt ; a \#166 ; * V)E-c n .
H Kl .
k t ]ST0 .
278 , dated 17th March , 1896 .
" From Colonel A. W. Baird , R.E. , F.R.S. , etc , Master of the Mint , Calcutta , to the Secretary to the Government of India , Finance and Commerce Department .
" Colonel Andrew Wilson Baird .
xxi the subject .
Although the paper was not published , I have been allowed to see a copy .
It is naturally intensely technical , but even to a reader wholly ignorant of coinage as I am , it possesses great interest .
Such points as the average annual wear of the rupee and of the smaller coins , the mean annual accretion of dirt on the old coins , are studied with scientific accuracy , and it is curious to note that the weight of the accretion is almost proportional to the age of the coin .
Plans for the withdrawal of the old coins from circulation are further discussed with great ability .
The Government adopted almost all his suggestions , and it was in consequence of his work that the coinage was re-established on a thoroughly satisfactory footing .
It is on such men as Baird and on such unwearying services as those sketched above that the administration of the Indian Empire depends .
Official recognition of this is recorded by the Companionship of the Star of India , which he received in 1897 .
In science he has left a permanent mark as the successful organiser of the first extensive operations in tidal observations by the new methods .
The treatment of tidal observations is now made by harmonic analysis in every part of the world , and this extensive international development is largely due to the ability with which he canied out this pioneer work in India .
On his retirement in 1897 he went to live near Elgin , and amused himself with the improvement of the house and garden on the little property which he had bought there , and at first he enjoyed some sport .
His health , however , gradually became very delicate , and he frequently passed the winter abroad in warmer climates .
His death occurred suddenly in London on April 2 , 1908 , in consequence of failure of the heart .
Whilst in England in 1872 he married Margaret Elizabeth , only daughter of Mr. Charles Davidson , of Forester Hill , Aberdeen , who survives him .
He leaves also two sons , both in military service , and five daughters .
G. H. D. XXII WILLIAM ASHWELL SHENSTONE , 1850\#151 ; 1908 .
The life of a schoolmaster is usually laborious , and when he devotes the greater part of his holidays to study and experimental research , little time is left for incident outside the daily routine .
Shenstone 's career was uneventful , but it brought him into frequent contact with the scientific world , in which he made many lasting friendships .
Born at Colchester on December 1 , 1850 , lie came of a family collateral with that of the poet , as it appears that his grandfather , Joseph Shenstone , born at Halesowen between 1790 and 1800 , was a son of a cousin of that writer .
W. A. Shenstone 's father , James Burt Byron Shenstone , was established as a pharmacist at Colchester , and after the usual course of education at the Colchester Grammar School the son was received into the business .
At the age of twenty he obtained , as the result of competitive examination , one of the Bell Scholarships , given annually by the Pharmaceutical Society .
After a course of study in the School of that Society he won the Pereira Medal and other prizes .
During the time he was occupied in his father 's business a portion of the premises was burnt down , and Shenstone was exposed to cold and damp , with the result that a serious illness followed , from the effects of which he never completely recovered .
The injury which resulted was , in fact , the primary cause of his last illness nearly forty years later .
After two years spent in the laboratory of the Pharmaceutical Society , Shenstone accepted an engagement with Dr. W. A. Tilden , at that time chief science master at Clifton College .
Here he displayed those qualities of patience , diligence , accuracy , and enthusiastic devotion to experimental work , which distinguished him throughout life .
In 1874 work was begun on the terpenes , at that time an unexplored department of organic chemistry , and Shenstone joined in the investigation with his usual ardour .
The result was a paper , under the joint names of Tilden and Shenstone , published in the ' Transactions of the Chemical Society , ' in which it was shown that the numerous hydrocarbons of this family then known were reducible to three classes according to the character of their nitrosoderivatives .
From Clifton , in 1875 , Shenstone passed to the Science Mastership at Taunton School , then under the Head Mastership of the Rev. William Tuck well .
After about two years he moved to a similar position at Exeter School .
Here he built and fitted up a school laboratory ( described in 'Nature , ' July 26 , 1878 ) which attracted some attention , as it served to show that the practical teaching of physics and chemistry was within the reach of all properly conducted schools , and need not be avoided on the ground of expense , as had been up to that time so frequently alleged .
William Ashwell Shenstone .
xxm Shenstone was always an attractive lecturer , and interested himself much in educational problems , especially in connection with the improvement of methods for teaching physical science .
When , in 1880 , he succeeded Dr. Tilden as Science Master at Clifton , he found a field in which he could bring into operation some of his ideas .
Here he was one of the first science masters to associate practical work with all theoretical teaching , and here he made use of a modified " heuristic " system , in which an attempt is made to stimulate the disposition to enquiry which is inherent in most young minds .
The extent to which this system in the hands of a competent teacher can achieve success is to some extent indicated by the very wide circulation of Shenstone}s two books Practical Introduction to Chemistry ) , and there can be no doubt that this pioneering work has materially influenced the teaching of natural science throughout the kingdom .
The greater part of his leisure was devoted to original research .
During the earlier part of his time at Clifton he managed to carry out a difficult pieee of work on ozone , and on the properties of certain highly purified substances , from which he drew important conclusions .
The results of these experiments led him to the conclusion that chlorine , bromine , and iodine , when in the highest known condition of purity , and dried by contact under special conditions with phosphoric oxide for six months or more , do at once combine with mercury when brought into contact with that metal similarly purified and dried .
The remarkable indifference displayed by some substances , when completely deprived of moisture , to the ordinary conditions of chemical change , have led some chemists to believe that it is impossible for any two substances to interact chemically except in the presence of a third substance , usually water , though only in minute quantity .
The question must be regarded as still open , but it will be difficult for any future experimenter to improve on Shenstone 's method or his manipulative skill .
Shenstone also joined Professor Tilden in a research on the " Solubility of Salts in Water at High Temperatures , " the results of which form the subject of a paper in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1884 .
In most of this work a good deal of complicated glass apparatus was required , and the whole of that which was needed in his work on ozone , on the purification of chlorine , etc. , was constructed with his own hands .
Shenstone was an accomplished glass blower and in 1886 he published a small book , the first of its kind , giving instructions suitable for laboratory workers , which was translated into German and is to be found in most chemical laboratories .
Shenstone also succeeded in the far more difficult art of manipulating vitrified quartz , the properties of which he demonstrated in a lecture at the Royal Institution in 1901 .
Apparatus constructed of this material is of the utmost value in certain chemical and physical operations owing to the fact that it is unaffected by nearly all chemical agents except hydrofluoric acid , and that its coefficient of dilatation by heat is practically nil .
Hence , unlike glass may be suddenly quenched in cold water from a red heat VOL. lx .xil.\#151 ; a. d XXIV William Ashwell without injury .
He devoted much time during the last two or three -years of his life to the practical question of producing this material on a manufacturing scale , so as to bring it within the reach of scientific workers at a moderate cost , and to these efforts the physicists and chemists of to-day owe the beautiful clear variety of silica vessels now commonly in use .
Shenstone was elected into the Eoyal Society in 1898 .
In his later years he devoted some time to literary work and produced a ' Life of Liebig ' ( Cassell and Co. ) , and the year before he died he gathered into one volume , under the title ' The New Physics and Chemistry , ' a series of essays contributed to the ' Cornhill Magazine , ' in which he presented a remarkable and , on the whole successful , attempt to explain in popular language the modern views of physicists and chemists on subjects such as matter , motion , the ether , the nature of atoms and molecules , radio-activity , etc. He married , in 1883 , Mildred , daughter of the late Eev .
Eeginald Durrant , and he leaves a widow with a son and a daughter .
Shenstone possessed a fortunate combination of enthusiasm with peculiar skill in handling apparatus , and under more favourable conditions would certainly have done a much larger amount of scientific work .
But what he did accomplish was a marvel to those who knew him well .
In spite of the lameness , the cause of which has already been referred to , and which sometimes led to general disturbance of health , the brave , bright spirit , which endeared him to his friends , helped him over mountains of routine work and kept him ever eager for the more attractive fields of science .
He died at Mullion , Cornwall , on February 3 , 1908 , and is buried in the village churchyard .
W. A. T.

