1876 .
] On the Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains .
V. ee On the Origin of Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains , with Remarks on the Flow of Water round Bends in Pipes .
" By Professor James Thomson , LL. D. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 14 , 1876 .
In respect to the origin of the windings of rivers flowing through alluvial plains , people have usually taken the rough notion that when there is a bend in any way commenced , the water just rushes out against the outer bank of the river at the bend , and so washes that bank away , and allows deposition to occur on the inner bank , and thus makes the sinuosity increase .
But in this they overlook the hydraulic principle , not generally known , that a stream flowing along a straight channel and thence into a curve must flow with a diminished velocity along the outer bank , and an increased velocity along the inner bank , if we regard the flow as that of a perfect fluid .
In view of this principle , the question arose to me some years ago:\#151 ; Why does not the inner bank wear away more than the outer one ?
We know by general experience and observation that in fact the outer one does wear away , and that deposits are often made along the inner one .
How does this arise ?
The explanation occurred to me in the year 1872 , mainly as follows :\#151 ; For any lines of particles taken across the stream at different places , as 6 Prof. J. Thomson on the Origin of [ May 4 , A B15 A2B2 , \amp ; c. in fig. 2 , and which may be designated in general as AB , if the line be level , the water-pressure must be increasing from A to B , on account of the centrifugal force of the particles composing that line or bar of water ; or , what comes to the same thing , the water-surface of the river will have a transverse inclination rising from A to B. The water in any stream-line CD E* at or near the surface , or in any case not close to the bottom , and flowing nearly along the inner bank , will not accelerate itself in entering on the bend , except in consequence of its having a fall of free level in passing along that stream-line t. But the layer of water along the bottom , being by friction much retarded , has much less centrifugal force in any bar of its particles extending across the river ; and consequently it will flow sidewise along the bottom towards the inner bank , and will , part of it at least , rise up between the stream-line and the inner bank , and will protect the bank from the rapid scour of that stream-line and of other adjacent parts of the rapidly flowing current ; and as the sand and mud in motion at the bottom are carried in that bottom layer , they will be in some degree brought in to that inner bank , and may have a tendency to be deposited there .
* On the other hand , along the outer bank there will be a general tendency to descent of surface-water which will have a high velocity , not having been much impeded by friction ; and this will wear away the * This , although here conveniently spoken of as a stream-line , is not to be supposed as having really a steady flow .
It may be conceived of as an average stream-line in a place where the flow is disturbed with eddies or by the surrounding water commingling with it .
* t It must be here explained that by the free level for any particle is to be understood the level of the atmospheric end of a column , or of any bar , straight or curved , of particles of statical water , having one end situated at the level of the particle , and having at that end the same pressure as the particle has , and having the other end consisting of a level surface of water freely exposed to the atmosphere , or else having otherwise atmospheric pressure there ; or , briefly , we may say that the free level for any particle of water is the level of the atmospheric end of its pressure-column , or of an equivalent ideal pressure-column .
1876 .
] Windings of Rivers in Alluvial Plains .
7 bank and carry the worn substance in a great degree down to the bottom , where , as explained before , there will be a general prevailing tendency towards the inner bank .
Now , further , it seems that even from the very beginning of the curve forward there will thus be a considerable protection to the inner bank .
Because a surface stream-line C D , or one not close to the bottom , flowing along the bank which in the bend becomes the inner bank , will tend to depart from the inner bank at D , the commencement of the bend , and to go forward along D E , or by some such course , leaving the space Gr between it and the bank to be supplied by slower-moving water which has been moving along the bottom of the river perhaps by some such oblique path as the dotted line E Gr .
It is further to be observed that ordinarily or very frequently there will be detritus travelling down stream along the bottom and seeking for resting-places , because the cases here specially under consideration are only such as occur in alluvial plains ; and in regions of that kind there is ordinarily* , on the average , more deposition than erosion .
This consideration explains that we need not have to seek for the material for deposition on the inner bank in the material worn away from the outer bank of the same bend of the river .
The material worn from the outer bank may have to travel a long distance down stream before finding an inner bank of a bend on which to deposit itself .
And now it seems very clear that in the gravel , sand , and mud carried down stream along the bottom of the river to the place where the bend commences , there is an ample supply of detritus for deposition on the inner bank of the river even at the earliest points in the curve which will offer any resting-place .
It is especially worthy of notice that the oblique flow along the bottom towards the inner bank begins even up stream from the bend , as already explained , and as shown by the dotted line E G- in fig. 3 .
The transverse movement comprised in this oblique flow is instigated by the abatement of pressure , or lowering of free level , in the water along the inner bank produced by centrifugal force in the way already explained .
It may now be remarked that the considerations which have in the present paper been adduced in respect to the mode of flow of water round a bend of a river , by bringing under notice , conjointly , the lowering of free level of the water at and near the inner bank , and the raising of free level of the water-at and near the outer bank relatively to the free level of the water at middle of the stream , and the effect of retardation of velocity in the layer flowing along the bed of the channel in diminishing the centrifugal force in the layer retarded , and so causing that retarded water , and also frictionally retarded water , even in a straight channel of approach to the bend , to flow obliquely towards the inner bank , tend very * That is to say , except when by geological changes the causes which have been producing the alluvial plain have become extinct , and erosion by the river has come to predominate over deposition .
Mr. G. J. Romanes on the [ May 4 , materially to elucidate the subject of the mode of flow of water round bends in pipes , and the manner in which bends cause augmentation of frictional resistance in pipes , a subject in regard to which I believe no good exposition has hitherto been published in any printed books or papers ; but about which various views , mostly crude and misleading , have been published from time to time , and are now often repeated , but which , almost entirely , ought to be at once rejected .
VI .
u On the Modification of the Excitability of Motor Nerves produced by Injury"* .
By G. J. Romanes , M.A. , F.L.S. Communicated by Prof. Sanderson , M.D. , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1876 .
S 1 .
If the gastrocnemius of a frog be placed in a horizontal direction on non-polarizable electrodes with its convex surface uppermost , one may generally observe that the muscle is somewhat more sensitive to minimal stimulation , supplied by closure of the constant current , when the femoral end rests on the kathode , than when this end rests on the anode .
Conversely , under similar circumstances the gastrocnemius is more sensitive to minimal stimulation , supplied by opening of the constant current , when the femoral end rests on the anode , than when this end rests on the kathode .
In view of the other facts of electrotonus , the present ones are of interest ; because , as the sciatic nerve enters the gastrocnemius near the femoral end of the latter , and then spreads out its peripheral ramifications as it advances , in the experiments just mentioned one electrode is in almost immediate contact with the nerve-trunk where it enters the muscle , while the other electrode supports the part of the muscle that contains only peripheral nervous elements .
It is therefore to be expected , upon the theory of electrotonus , that the muscle under these conditions should prove itself most sensitive to the closing shock when the nerve-trunk rests on the kathode , and most sensitive to the opening shock when the nerve-trunk rests on the anode .
It is to be observed , however , that although this expectation is in most cases fulfilled , it is not so invariably .
Different gastrocnemius muscles , though treated as far as possible in exactly the same way , manifest considerable differences , both in their general sensitiveness to electrical stimulation , and in their relative sensitiveness to interruptions of the ascending and of the descending currents .
Even the same muscle , if rapidly prepared , will generally be found to undergo fluctuations in these respects from minute to minute .
Attributing this fact to the unnatural conditions which the experiment imposed on the process of nutrition , I conducted some observations on muscles while they were still attached to the body * For farther details , remarks , statements of methods , \amp ; c. , see a fuller notice in the forthcoming ( July ) Number of the 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology .
'

