420 Dr. Brunton and Mr. H. Power on Digitalis .
[ June 18 , X. On the Diuretic Action of By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , D.Se .
, and Henry Power , M.B. , F.R.C.S. Communicated by Dr. Sanderson , F.R.S. Received June 1 , 1874 .
It has been shown , by Max Herrmann and Ludwig , that the rapidity of the urinary secretion depends on the difference in pressure between the blood in the renal glomeruli and the urine in the urinary tubules .
At present , it is generally assumed that the diuretic action of Digitalis is not caused by any specific influence of the drug upon the kidney , but is due exclusively to its power of increasing the blood-pressure in the arterial system .
The results of some experiments made by us nearly a year ago show that this is not the fact .
On injecting a considerable dose of digitalin ( 1-2 centigrammes ) into the veins of an etherized dog , we have observed that the secretion of urine was either greatly diminished or ceased altogether , while the blood-pressure rose , occasionally to a considerable extent .
After some time the blood-pressure again fell : and in some of the experiments the secretion of urine recommenced at the instant the fall began .
In other instances it did not recommence till the blood-pressure had sunk below the normal .
Occasionally the secretion did not flow with its original r pidity , but in others it was poured forth copiously , even although the blood-pressure had sunk considerably below the normal .
If Digitalis acted as a diuretic only by raising the blood-pressure , the flow of urine should have been greatly increased immediately after the injection , and shouhl have diminished with the fall of arterial tension .
Instead of this the secretion was least when the blood-pressure was highest , and most copious when the tension had fallen below the normal .
The explanation we would offer of these phenomena is , that Digitalis probably stimulates the vaso-motor nerves generally , but affects those of the kidney more powerfully than those of o'her parts of the body .
Thus , it causes a moderate contraction of the systemic vessels , and raises the blood-pressure in them , but , at the same time , produces excessive contraction of the renal vessels , so as to stop the circulation in the kidneys and arrest the secretion of urine .
As the action of the drug on the systemic vessels passes off they relax , and the blood-pressure falls ; but the renal arteries probably dilate more quickly and to a greater extent than the others .
The pressure of blood in the glomeruli may thus be increased above that normally present in them , although the tension in the arterial system generally may have fallen below the normal .
Additional evidence in favour of this explanation is afforded by the fact that the urine collected after the reestablishment of secretion contains albumen , just as Herrmann found it to do after mechanical arrest of the circulation through the renal arteries .
1874 .
] Dr. A. Gunther on Gigantic Land-Tortoises .
We do not overlook the possibility that the alteration in secretion may be partly due to the direct action of the drug on the secreting elements of the kidneys , and we are still engaged in experiments on this subject .
XI .
" Description of the Living and Extinct Races of Gigantic Land-Tortoises.\#151 ; Parts I. and II .
Introduction , and the Tortoises of the Galapagos Islands/ ' By Dr. Albert Gunther , F.R.S. Received June 4 , 1874 .
( Abstract .
) The author having had the opportunity of examining a considerable collection of the remains of Tortoises found in the islands of Mauritius and Rodriguez associated with the bones of the Dodo and Solitaire , has arrived at the following conclusions :\#151 ; 1 .
These remains clearly indicate the former existence of several species of gigantic Land-Tortoises , the Rodriguez species differing more markedly from those of the Mauritius than these latter among themselves .
All these species appear to have become extinct in modern times .
2 .
These extinct Tortoises of the Mascarenes are distinguished by a flat cranium , truncated beak , and a broad bridge between the foramina obturatoria .
3 .
All the other examples of gigantic Tortoises preserved in our museums , and said to have been brought from the Mascarenes , and likewise the single species which is known still to survive , in a wild state , in the small island of Aldabra , have a convex cranium , truncated beak , and a narrow bridge between the obturator foramina ; and therefore are specifically , if not generically , distinct from the extinct ones .
4 .
On the other hand , there exists the greatest affinity between those contemporaries of the Dodo and Solitaire and the Tortoises still inhabiting the Galapagos archipelago .
These unexpected results induced the author to subject to a detailed examination all the available material of the gigantic Tortoises from the Mascarenes and Galapagos which are still living , or were believed to be living , and are commonly called Testudo and Testiulo , and to collect all the historical evidence referring to them .
Thus , in the first { introductory ' ) part of the paper a selection from the accounts of travellers is given , by which it is clearly shown that the presence of these Tortoises at two so distant stations as the Galapagos and Mascarenes cannot be accounted for by the agency of man , at least not in historical times , and therefore that these animals must be regarded as indigenous .
The second part consists of a description of the Galapagos Tortoises .
The author shows that the opinion of some of the older travellers , viz.

