110 Dr. W. Far .
English Reproduction Table .
[ Jan. 29 depends on the differences of JE , that is , on the diameter of the earth 's orbit , the determination of v cos \ depends on JE itself , a much larger-quantity .
But no method can be made available without good tables of tha motion of the satellites , and as I am not an astronomer , I do not know whether , in comparing the observations with the tables of De Damoil seau , any attempt has been made to consider the term in cos \ 1 I have therefore , taken the liberty of writing to you , as the matter is beyond the reach of anyone who has not made a special studv of tne satellites .
J In the article E [ ether ] in the ninth edition of the " Encyclopaedia Britannica , " I have collected all the facts I know about the relative motion of the ether and the bodies which move in it , and have shown that nothing can be inferred about this relative motion from any : phenomena hitherto observed , except the eclipses , \amp ; c. , of the satellites of a planet , the more distant the better .
If you know of any work done in this direction , either by yourself or others , I should esteem it a favour to be told of it .
Believe me , Yours faithfully , D. P. Todd , Esq. ( Signed ) J. Clerk Maxwell .
January 29 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " English Reproduction Table .
" By Dr. W. Far , F.R.S. Received January 15 , 1880 .
( Abstract .
) This table is a development of the English Life Table , from which the fundamental columns of lie and P are taken , and is intended to show the constitution of the female population , as regards married and unmarried , and the reproductive power at the several ages .
The female^ population , P y , is divided into married ( uxores ) unmarried ( filise ) , and widowed ( viduse ) , according to the proportions of these classes of the various ages at the census of 1871 ; thus , of a total of 14,936,770 , aged 15 and upwards , 7,957,456 are wives , 4,660,311 are spinsters , 2,319,003 are widows .
i880 .
] Prof. Gamgee .
A Note on Ill The offspring ( soboles ) are derived from Norwegian statistics of the number of children born to married and unmarried women of the several ages , such facts for England not being available .
As the Life Table represents a population , continuing the same m constitution from year to year , the columns sy , and s"y , show the annual number of children born to women of the several ages and classes ; and the total births of live-bom children in a year are 1,450,910 , of which 55,381 are of illegitimate children .
' By means of simple formulae , the number of children bom in or out of wedlock , to any given number of women at a specified age , can be deduced .
1,000 wives aged 20 bear 401 children , while 1,000 unmarried women of this age bear 11 children ; at age 30 , 1,000 women of each class bear 337 and 29 children ; at age 40 , 210 and 10 children respectively are bom of married and unmarried women .
II .
" A Note on Protagon .
" By Arthur Gamgee , M.D. , F.R.S. , Brackenbury Professor of Physiology in Owens College , Manchester .
Received January 19 , 1880 .
In 1879 , in conjunction with Dr. Ernst Blankenhom , I communicated to the Royal Society a paper entitled " On the Existence of Liebreich 's Protagon in the Brain .
" * In that paper we songht to establish the existence of the body which had been described by Dr. Liebreich , but which had by several writers been considered to be a mixture of lecithin and cerebrin .
We gave many analyses of several samples of protagon , and pointed out the constancy in the composition of the body when subjected to repeated crystallization from alcohol .
I have since the date of the above paper , in conjunction with Herr Adolf Spiegel and Mr. Leopold Larmuth , continued my examination of protagon , and of certain bodies which accompany it .
Our researches , which are not yet in a sufficiently advanced state for publication , have in the fullest degree confirmed the conclusions arrived at by the research of which the results have already been submitted to the Society .
The object of the present communication is to notice certain of the statements which have lately been published by J. L. W\ Thudichum , M.D. , + to the effect that protagon is an impure body consisting of a mixture of many organic substances , and containing in particular considerable quantities of potassium .
44 These inquiries , " says Dr. Thudichum , referring to his own re* " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxix , p. 151 .
+ " Not\#169 ; and Experiments on the Alleged Existence in the Brain of a Body termed 'Protagon ' .
" c(Annals of Chemical Medicine .
" By J. L. W. Thudichum , M.D. London , 1879 .
Page 254 .

