]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
BuBKB , John.\mdash ; On the Change of Absorption produced by Fluorescence . .
Trans. .
, pp. Absorption , Change of , produced by Fluorescence .
BURKE , John .
ns .
, , 1898 , vol. 191 , ' pp. 87-104 .
Fluorescence , Change of Absorption produced by .
BURKE , John .
Phil. Trans. 1898 , vol. , pp. 87-104 .
Photometry , Photographic Method in .
BURKE , John .
Phil. Trans. , , 1898 , vol. 191 , pp. [ 87 ] II .
On the of Absorption produced by Fluorescence .
JOHN BURKE , M.A. , Berkeley Fellow of the Owens , Manchester .
by Professor ARTHUR , F. Received June 10 , \mdash ; Read June 17 , \mdash ; evised December 14 , 1897 .
Introduction .
ABOUT two ago , in the spring of 1895 , in the course of a conversation with Professor J. H. POINTING on the nature of the phenoluenon of fluorescence , in the study of which I was at the time beginning to engage , the suggestion was thrown out by him that possibly flnorescent bodies absorb differently , they are fluorescing or not , the rays which they give out ] , thus that a body A would absorb differently , according as it is fluorescing or not , the rays from a similar body in a state of fluorescence .
Some fluorescent bodies undoubtedly do , others do not , absorb , except to a very small extent , the rays which they emit .
A strong solution of fluorescin or eosin , for instance , hardly permits its fluorescent light to penetrate even a very small thickness .
Glass coloured oxide of uranium is much more transparent , but sulphate of quinine hardly absorbs these rays all .
The question was whether during the act of fluorescing is produced in the nature of the absorption itself , that is , whether during fluorescence there is an increase or diminution of absorption in that part of the spectrum where the emitted rays lie .
For instance , with uranium ao.lass the radiation takes place chiefly between the and lines , so that the power for rays may different according as the body is examined in the dark or in daylight in this parb of the spectrum .
Of the fiye bright bands of which the radiation consists , three lie between the and lines , the other two being of less refrangibility and of less intensity in the red and orange STOKES , 'Phil .
Trans 1852 With the cope I have used I have not been able to see the band in the red , but the * The series of experiments have been made with uranium glass , as tho compounds of uranium exhibit many peculiarities which other bodies do not appear to possess when flnorescing .
instance , the bright bands in the fluorescing spectrum of uranium glass seem to be noticeable in uranium compounds alone .
It is also remarkable that crystals of nitrate of uranium have the quality as well as the quantity of their fluorescent light tered by depriving them of of their water of crystallization .
21 .
4 .
98 other four were quite distinct .
The spectrum seemed to me to be of the nature of maxima and minima .
In the summer of 1895 I made experiments at Trinity College , Dublin , on the electrical conductivity of fluorescent solutions , and endeavoured to determine whether the action of violet or ultra-violet light upon them gave rise to any alteration in their conductivity .
The many difficulfies which the experiment entailed prevented me from arriving at any conclusion upon the matter , and I commenced to look for some such effect as Professor pointing had suggested .
The experiments have since been carried out in Professor SCHUSTER'S laboratory at Owens College .
1 .
The leading conception in the following paper may briefly be stated thus : Suppose that a body A is transmitting light from a similar body , which is fluorescing .
It is quite ( , onceivable , as Professor PoYNTfNG remarked , that the amount of light from transmitted by A sbould be different according as is fluorescing .
not .
2 .
There were reasons pointed to the conclusion that something of the sort might happen .
It seemed quite possible that the action , if any , of the fluorescent light from might be to strengthen the fluorescence of the body A when already fluorescing ; not that the emitted light would be increased merely by scattering , which would be precisely the same in amount whether { , he body were fluorescing or not , but that the emission of fluorescent radiation would be increased if light of the same frequency were incident on the radiating body .
The experiments which are described in the sequel do not confirm this supposition , but they prove that the amount of fluorescent light apparently transmitted is very different according as the body through which it passes is.fluorescing or not , the amount being very much less , only about one-half , when fluorescence is taking place than when the body is unacted upon by exciting light .
3 .
It seemed possible that this effe might be due , indirectly at least , to an increased absorption of the incident fluorescent light , if it possessed the property of destroying the fluorescence of the body through which it passed .
BECQUEREL has shown that certain infra-red rays have the power of destroying phosphorescence in a substance which is exposed to the phosphorescence-exciting rays .
It was therefore possible that the result obtained by me was an effect of this kind , but I think that the experiment described on p. 92 sufficiently proves that , though such an explanation would involve an increased absorption of the annulling rays in order that they might be capable of destroying the fluorescence , the effect I have observed is really not essentially of this kind , but is rather due to an increased direct absorption .
It may be useful if , before entering into an account of the experiments , I give , ABSORPTfON PRODUCED BY FLUO .
RESCENCE .
89 as briefly as clearness will permit , a short account of the general principles on which the coefficients of absorption may be calculated .
( n ) MODE 0F DETERMINING ABSORPTION .
Let us consider two cubes of the same fluorescent substance ( fig. 1 ) .
We shall , by comparing the light when fluorescing , which is transmitted by A as the latter is fluorescing or not , obtain , being ' the intensity of he light emitted by each cube separately and independently of any light transmitted from the other .
The quantities and are clearly the fractions of the incident light transmitted by A according as it is or is not fluorescing .
They may be called the coefficients of transmission of the cube under these different Similarly , if we denote the coefficients of absorption of the cube by and , and that of reflection at the two faces by .
we have ; Hence ; It has been found more convenient to have to deal with the transmission coefficients rather than with those of absorption , equality in the former of course implying equality in the latter , though , as we have seen , the converse is not necessarily true .
Figs. 2 .
Let tig .
2 represent a plan of the piane horizontal surfaces of four similar and equal cubical \mdash ; of some fluorescent substance such as uranium glass , which is singly refracting .
We shall put aside for the present all minor details .
Let be a photometer furnished with two vertical slits , the breadths of which can be varied , and a screen , whose plane is perpendicular to that of the paper , serving to VOL. CXCI .
prevent any light from the vertical surfaces of the cubes and from entering the slits and respectively .
We shall suppose that the cubes are illuminated by vertical rays incident perpendicularly to the surfaces , i.e. , to the plane of the paper .
By means of this arrangement we compare the intensities of the two beams of light coming respectively from the vertical surfaces of the cubes and , opposite to the slits .
None of the light from and is permitted to pass sideways into and , the two sets of blocks being separated by a screen of paper .
On the other hand , the blocks and are separated from and by a sheet of lead glass , which is very opaque to the fluorescence-exciting rays , so that radiation scattered by and cannot be th source of any part of the fluorescence of and , and vice versed .
The fluorescence of each block is thus hsr caused by the rays.incident perpendicularly to the plane of the paper .
If all is right the fluorescent light emitted horizontally from surfaces and to appear the same , and this is tested by the photometer .
When this condition is fulfilled three experiments are performed : firstly , to determine the coefficient of transmission of or when fluorescing for those rays which the cube itself gives out by fluorescence ; secondly , to measure its coefficient of absorption when not fluorescing ; and thirdly , to determine independently the ratio of the coefficients , and to compare the value so obtained with that given by the other two results .
The last experiment thus serves to verify the first two measurements .
The Set of xperiments .
We may call the experiments made to determine the coefficient of transmission during fluorescence the set , and similar]y the other two the and sets , in all of which a proper combination of the cubes , is chosen , and the fluorescence-exciting light is allowed to fall upon them , whilst remaining cube or cubes are screened from its action .
Thus , if we wish to determine the transmission during fluorescence of the block , we screen from the incident rays as in fig. 3 , these , it must be remembered , are perpendicular to , that is to the plane of the paper ; hence the light emitted by the surface will be that due to two cubes , and that from to one only .
We can compare lelative intensities of these by adjusting the slits .
The block is not removed , as some of the rays emerging towards are reflected back , and these are compensated by a similar reflection from .
There is no reason to suppose that the reflection would be different according as the reflecting surface is fluorescing or not , because fluorescence is not confined to the surf.ace A portion of the light emitted by is reflected by the double air layers separating from , but this is included in the coefficient of reflection .
The light emitted the fluorescent light of transmitted by Hence the intensity of the light given out by is .
The light from consists of its fluorescent light only , the internal reflection being the same as the other two blocks , and is thus Denoting the widths of the slits by and , and remembering that these quantities are inversely proportional to the intensities , we obtain the equation from which may be determined .
In order to avoid errors arising from of symmetry , the process is reversed by screening instead of , and similarly is given by the equation and being now widths of the slits .
If there observations the screen in each of these two positions , The Set of determine for , we screen and from the incident light , in We can then compare the fraction of the light emitted by which is transmitted by ( when the latter is not fluorescing ) with that emitted by , which is the same as that from ; the constant of reflection being of course involved , as in the previous case .
The light coming from is then whilst that from Hence If the process be reversed , and after such observations The removal of is found to no difference .
The cube and the glass may moved before the nination i to makc sure that and radiate equally .
Set of The ratio ) } ) obtained indel ) cntly by the cnlen in fig. 5 .
MR. JOHN BURKE ON THE CHANGE OF It is easy to see , as before , t , ha if be screened , the light coming from , whereas that Hence and reversing , so that description of the general method will suffice for the present , and the account of the general methods of out an experiment will be found on p. 96 .
To Determine the in the Fluorescence on the Supposition that the Fluorescent Light is of Destroying Itself .
Let us suppose that the intensity of the fluorescent light given out by each of two cubes of uranium glass when not exposed to the radiation from each other\mdash ; that is , when there is an opaque eflecting screen ( ll , fig. 6 ) separating them\mdash ; is equal to , and that when this screen is removed the intensity is equal to .
The blocks are supposed to be illuminated by rays pe1pendicular to the plaue of the paper , and the radiation , the intensity of which is under investigation , to be in the direction perpendicular to the surfaces , , of the cubes .
The method employed for comparing and depends upon obtainin .
two photographs on one plate , for comparison side by side .
We proceed thus : Let the slit be completely closed .
Three experiments are made : 1 .
The light colning from is photographed when the cube is not fluorescing , or the screen interposed .
We thus obtain the effect due to 2 .
Both cubes are then made to fluoresce , and the screen is removed , in which case we get the effect due to It can thus be found by adjusting the slit when the photographic effects of and are the same , from which the ratio of the two is determined .
As the result.of these experiments we are not justified in saying that any material difference between and exists other than that possibly due to scattering .
3 .
The amount of scattering from into , or rather the amount of the light scattered by in the direction outwards from , may be found by making fluoresce alone , and noting the effect of the light then falling on the slit .
The at the maximum , and was for the purpose of these experiments alteth inapl ) reciable .
DESCRIPTION APPARATUS .
1 .
Fluorescent Cubes .
2 .
Photometer .
1 .
The blocks are each 1 centim. cube , and are kept togethel by two indiarubber bands .
The two front cubes , ( fig. 2 ) , are separated from the two back ones , , as has already been pointed out on p. 89 , by a plate of glass of thickness ( about 2 millims. ) sufficient to stop the fluorescence-exciting rays scattered by one pair of cubes from entering the other , whilst the cubes are divided by a black paper screen frcm and , so that no light could pass sideways from or to or The horizontal surfaces , A , are those which are illuminated , whilst the light studied is that emitted by the surfaces The surfaces , as well as the lower horizontal surfaces parallel to , are roughened , so that there is no reguIar reflection from them , and thus are more or less opaque .
But the surfaces ; , are perfectly transparent , as also the upper horizontal ; A When , are all uniformly illuminated by violet or ultra-violet rays , the fluorescence of each block ought to be the same , if we disregard the very refined correction that the blocks , have each two transparent vertical surfaces , ] , and , whereas the blocks and have each only one , and .
At any rate , since the rays enter vertically , and therefore parallel to these surfaces , any difference that may possibly arise in this way in the intensity of scattered rays would for all practical purposes be quite immaterial .
We have seen ( p. 92 ) that the error , when sought found to be quite inappreciable and lies within the much larger errors of observation .
Apart altogether this consideration , the fluorescent light emitted horizontally from the surfaces , ought to appear the same , if all is right , and this is ascertained by the photometer before an experiment is made .
2 .
Fig. 7 is a plan of the apparatus showing the position of the fluol'escent cubes , \amp ; c. , in the photographic experiments .
The cubes are , \amp ; c. , and are illurninated by light incident vertically upon them either from the spark in air between cadmium electrodes or the electric arc .
The source of illumination almost invariably the former in the photographic determination , the poles being about 15 millims. apart , and 2 centims. above the fluorescent surface .
The spark was obtained by the discharge of a Leyden .
charged by the terminals of secondary of a 10-inch Apps coil .
The photometer , fluorescent substance , and source of illumination in the photographic experiments were enclosed in a wooden box , shown in the figure .
The photometer was at one end , and the fluorescent substance and illu1ninating arrangement at the other .
KK represent the electrodes , , \amp ; c. , the fluorescent cubes , and the photometer , consisting of two vertical slits , , and a double convex lens , ; while tt is a cardboard vertical screen , with a horizontal slit , 3 millims. wide , placed immediately in front of the vertical surfaces of the cubes ( the slit cannot be shown in the figure ) .
This screen of being moved up and down , so that the light at various depths below the illuminated surface may be studied .
The usual depth of the upper edge of the slit below the horizontal surface of the uorescent cubes was about 3 millims. Another vertical screen , 6 centims. in length , extends along the whole length of the box from the photometer to the other screen , and divides the horizontal slit into two parts , the light from each part being allowed to pass only through the corresponding vertical slit of the photometer .
The vertical slits and were adjustable with micrometer screws .
The lens ( of focal length centims. ) served to form an of the slit in the focal plane of the eyepiece , or on the focussing of the camera , which admitted of bein raised or lowered , so that , when necessary , a number of photographs could be obtained successively on one plate .
The photometer contrivance communicated with the camera by means of the conical tube , leading up to a front slide which remained fixed whilst the camera itself moved up and down ( fig. 8 ) .
The distance between bhe lens and the focal plane of the eyepiece was 18 centims. The whole of the interior of the apparatus was blackened , so that nob the slightest trace of reflection could be perceived .
screen of blue cobalt glass was interposed between the source of illumination and the fluorescent substance so as to cut off the less refrangible rays .
When the appais in use ontal band with a dark vel.tical line or narrow band in * [ .
ABSORPTION PRODUCED BY the middle is seen through the eyepiece or on the focussing plate of the mera .
The two luminous portions are of the parts of the surfaces , cut off by the horizontal slit immediately in front of them ; the screen .
and the paper screen which separates , from , divide the image of this slit into two parts , produce the dark vertical line in the middle .
By this arrangement , which was found to be on the whole the most venient , we clearly the opportunity , not merely of comparing the two lights side by side , which is absolutely necessary , but also of illuminating the surfaces , \amp ; c. , by the same source simultaneously and under similar conditions .
Fig , 8 .
Any slight amount of light ; chiefly blue , but partly red , which , having penetrated the cobalt glass , may have been scattered by the fluorescent substance as dispersion ( a term used by to designate the light scattered by irregular reflection from small particles , which is always polarized in the plane of reflection , and of the same ave-length as the incident light ) , can be eliminated , in consequence of its being polarized , b inter o a NTCOL'S prism or a pile of plates between the horiz.ontal the vertical of the photometer .
This method is open to the objection that it would weaken the flnorescent light , and it has been thought unnecessary to incur this disadvantage for two reasons .
In the first place , the whole amount oflight scattered has been found to be inappreciable ( see p. 93 ) , and on this account alone the portion now under consideration may be neglected .
In the second place , if the error were appreciable , it would tend to diminish rather than to increase the apparent differeIlce between the absorptions before and during fluorescence respectively .
For the scattered light would add to the total light emitted from , and would therefore tend to reduce the effect .
The length of the horizontal slit being about 2 centims. , and its width 2 millims. , the image was 6 centims. by 6 millims. , for the focal length was centims. , and the focal distances 6 centims. and 18 centims. respectively .
By using a lens of shorter focal length , however , an image of can be formed on the horizontal slit of a spectroscope placed so that the refraction takes place in a vertical plane , and observations can be made of the absorption in different parts of the spectrum .
This , however , is by no means an matter to accomplish , and we have confined ourselves to the light taken as a whole .
With reference to the illumination , it was thought at first that one of the electrodes might possibJy always be brighter than the other .
gly a plan was adopted of continually reversing the current in the coil by means of a wheel attached to the commutator of the coil , which was made to rotate by means of a motor .
Unfortunately the exposures required in the photographic work were thereby greatly increased .
The experiments , however , show that the average illumination obtained from each electrode is , for all purposes with which we are concerned , practically the same .
EYE OBSERVATIONS .
The accuracy of these observations has been found to depend , to a very large extent , upon experience on the part of the observer in dealing with the intensity of the lights placed side by side .
It is , of course , a familiar fact in photometry that it is very difficult to form a judgment as to the equality of illuminated surfaces when the illumination either very feeble or very powerful ; and accordingly this is a source of considerable inaccuracy in such determinations .
It is not desirable in either case to examine the relative intensity attentively for any length of time , as it is obviously possible , by viewing two feebly illuminated surfaces side by side for a sufficiently long time , to imagine that they are almost equal when really they are not so , and this remark appears to be particularly applicable to such cases in which the two colours are of slightly different tints .
Instances have arisen in which it has been impossible to arrive at any result whatever as to the relative intensity .
In such cases , however , the difference of tint was conspicuously marked .
It is preferable , when the observations are made by eye , to make a large number of measurements quickly , and to take the means of these first impressions , noting in turn the maximum and minimum widths of he slit , and then reversing the system of screens which serve to shelter the combination of the cubes the exciting rays .
ABSORPTION PRODUCED BY FLUORESCENCE .
97 The screen is so arranged as to admit of being worked by the observer , by means of handles , whilst he is otherwise engaged in taking observations through the eyepiece , but the mechanism by which this is effected is not shown in the figure , which is a sketch of the arrangement adapted chiefly to ) otographic work .
In the eye obseran optical bench was used , being a suitable stand for the apparatus .
To test the accuracy attained the uniformity of the illumination , or rather its symmetry , we may give the result of thirty observations .
These observations were made in the earlier stages of the experiments , when but little experience had been acquired .
If the illumination had been uniform , the intensity of the fluorescent light should have appeared the same when the slits were of equal width .
Fifteen readings of the left slit , when the right was fixed at 8 , give as the mean of the eadings , the probable error of a single observation being , and the probable error from the mean .
Similarly the other fifteen observations , when the left slit was fixed at 8 and the right slit movable , gave the mean of the readings of the right slit to be , the probable error of a single observation being , and that from the mean .
It may be remarked that in this particular experiment the readings of each observation were taken with an opening slit , and the apparent equality was obtained before the real equality existed , that is that in both sets of observations the mean of the readings was somewhat less than what it should have been ; but the process of reversing eliminates this .
Then the readings to the two sets of observations are and .
The ratio of the illumination of the cubes on the right to that of those on the left is in the first set of observations , and in the second , if we neglect the square of .
The ratios of the illumination of the cubes on the right to that of those on the left , as given by the two sets of observations , are and .
The mean of these two ratios is .
The probable error in the ratio is in either case .
Hence the probable error from the mean , since the two determinations of the ratio of the two illuminations are quite independent , is .
And the probable error of thirty observations is about 1 per cent. from the mean .
In the detection of the change of absorption , an error of 20 per cent. will obliterate the effect .
In tabulating the experiments , the following method has been adopted .
The cubes are indicated by the letters , the emento being as shown in the accompanying figure .
The intensities compared are those of the rays proceeding from the faces and VOL. CXCI .
In each of the experiments one or more of the cubes was shaded from the fluorescence-producing light .
The letter in the fifth column indicates which was that protected .
Experiments .
rimentIII 8 Mean Similarly taking in all eighty observa , tions for , and , the following are obtained , the fixed slit being at 8:\mdash ; Hence ; therefore Also we easily obtain and It may be remarked that the probable erTor in is much less than that in or .
My attention was called to this when revising the paper .
A glance at figs. 3 , 4 , and 5 will make this clear .
The light emanating .
from and will we are comparing the light passing through a non-fluorescing body with that emitted by it directly , and the result shows that there is a in tint between the light given out by and that emanating from Substituting the values of and thus obtained in , we obtain which is somewhat larger than that independently determined value .
The difference , though only a third of the probable error of a single observation , is nevertheless three times the probable error from the mean .
But this , Professor suggests , was probably due to slight variations in the symmetry of the illumination .
The value of determined independently is , however , quite close enough , and may for all practical purposes be considered a very good verification of the accuracy of the values obtained for and Taking the observed values of , and to be , and respectively , we obtain by the method of least squares the most probable values of and to be and , which give as the most probable value of this ratio .
Hence it appears that the observed values of and are more reliable than those of .
* Let where X and are the most probable values of and , and being the observed values of , and respectively .
Then and differentiating , we get Substituting for X and their values and and eglecting the powers of and higher than the first , we obtain ; ( 2 ) Substituting for , 0.787 , and respectively , we get ; Hence the most probable values of and are ; The coefficients of absorption and are given by the equations ( see p. 89 ) ; .
Hence and the increase in the absorption , or the difference between and INFLUENCE 0F TEMPERATURE .
It does not appear that temperature can have any effect on the phenomenon except either by weakening the intensity of the fluorescence of the transmitting cube or by heating effects due to the spark , or by a change of absorption due to temperature directly .
But , firstly , since all the fluorescing cubes are uniformly illuminated , and as we are merely concerned with the ratio of the intensity of the light emitted from and respectively , the heating being the same for all the illuminated cubes on the one hand and for all the unilluminated ones on the other , the actual intensity emitted by each cube , which may possibly be diminished by a rise of temperature , does not enter into the results .
Secondly , in the eye observat.ions , the various combinations of screening were brought about with considerable rapidity , sufficient to prevent the ) of any such effect due to changes of temperature arising .
No doubt some of the light from is absorbed by in the determination of and for ; any change of temperature , by this means would necessarily be slow , and consequently its effect , if any , small .
Photographic Method .
The following .
set of experiments was first carried out .
It was afterwards found not to be altogether satisfactory on account of the necessity in the , se cases of supe , rposing two photographs , and taking the resultant effect to be proportional to the sum of the separate ones .
The experiments , however , are of some interest in this fact : that when considerable differences in intensities have to be dealt with the resultant effect of superposing two photographs is not proportional to their sum .
( It has not been considered necessary to reproduce these particular photographs here .
) Captain ABNEy has previously shown that this is so .
The photograph taken , which we shall call Photograph , consisted of five successive images , on the one plate , corresponding respectively to a gradnal alteration illumination was uniform or not .
All the four cubes were exposed to the exciting illuminations .
( A. ) The table shows the width of the slits for each of the five photographs .
The nearest approach to equality was obtained in 2 and 3 , and the relative intensity was reversed .
The exposures ere twelve minutes each .
The plate was , however , considerably fogged .
The next plate ( B ) was taken in the same way as before , the width of the slits was diminished .
( B. ) The equality was here between 2 and 3 .
The photographs were still too dense , and the fogging too great , to make it possible to say with any degree of accuracy which way the inequality , if any , went ; and it was really difficult to say if there was any difference between 3 and 4 .
( C ) was taken with an experiment of six miuutes .
In this case the equality was between 8 and 4 .
It was not possible to obtain a greater accuracy than 5 per cent. in any single plate , but it did not seem necessal.y in the determination of the absorption to attain even to this .
In order to test whether the absorption was the same whether the ce fluorescing or not , the experiment was arranged in the following 1 .
A photograph is taken with the screen , as shown in fig. 3 .
Let be the ratio of intensity of the light emitted by to that emitted by ; then 02 MR. JOHN BURKE ON THE CHANGE OF 2 .
If is the ratio of the intensity of the light emitted by to that emitted by in the arrangement fig. 5 , then Hence and if The experiment is then performed by first determining , and putting and observing whether the two lights so obtained are of equal intensity .
Again is first obtained , and put , and equality again looked for .
In the case it is found necessary to diminish , or widen , to obtain equality , and since the radiation from and are inversely as the width of the slits , it follows that the real value of is greater than the calculated one , and in the second it is also found necessary to diminish or widen , which shows that or that , and therefore .
Hence the absorption is greater when the substance is fluorescing than when it is not , and being the coefficients of transmission .
To test this otographically , first of all an exposure is given when the screening of the cubes is as in ( 1 ) , and then , wit , hout altering the position of the camera , the screening is arranged as in ( 2 ) .
The slits are such that , since we want the ratio , not .
Thus , if the photographic effect be proportional to the time and the intensity , the effect in the first instance on the photographic plates may be represented thus : and in the second Hence the resultant effects , when superposed , are ; .
The camera is then slightly raised , is made equal to , all the screens are removed , and a photograph is taken on the plate with an exposure merely equal to that of each of the other two , the object being to obtain on the one plate a comparison , not merely with reference to the absorption , but also with that of the illumination .
The effects on the photographic plate ought to be as follows:\mdash ; ABSORPTION PRODUCED BY FLUORESCENCE .
If there is no change of absorption ought to be of the same intensity as ( b ) .
As a matter of fact , it was always found to be much denser in the negative .
The intensities of ( b ) and ( d ) were never exactly equal , but , on the contrary , ( d ) was always darker than ( b ) .
Now , the width of the slit for ( d ) was double that for ( b ) , but the exposure was half , which shows that if we double the intensity of the light to which aphotographic plate is exposed , the exposure must be less than half in order that the same effect should be produced .
In other words , the photographic effect is not proportional to the intensity and to the time conjointly .
The actual width of the slits and the exposures in one particular instance were as follows:\mdash ; The relative intensity of and ( c ) was not constant , which shows that the average illumination may be different at different times , and it was consequently necessary to make comparisons of photographs taken simultaneously , the symmetry of the illumination having first been secured .
Fifteen plates were obtained , which are in the possession of the Royal Society and can be inspected .
Three photographs show the degree of approximation in the uniformity of the illuminations .
Some others exhibit the remarkable difference in the relative intensities under conditions such that if there were no change in the absorptive power the two intensities should be equal .
Three photographs show the superior and inferior limits of the value of , the cube being screened , and the slits are The relative intensities as given appear to be the nearest approach to the limits in the width of we should wish to arrive at .
Thus we obtain for the limits as follows:\mdash ; ; therefore The most probable value for obtained by the eye observations was Three other photographs give the limits for and being in this cas screened .
lies between 3 and , so that , i.e. the value with the eye observations being Assuming the value of to be , and that there is no difference between it and , we obtain Consequently if we screen and adjust we should obtain equality of intensity on a photographic plate .
This , however , does appear to be the case , as shown in a photograph in which two successive images of the horizontal slit given , one being the result of reversing the screws and screen , so that was for the second image sheltered from the illuminations , and exposed , and It shows , moreover , that a reversal in the arrangement also reverses the effect .
Another plate exhibits the effect of superposing two such photographs , showing the absence of want of symmetry in the illumination .
Some other photographs show the equality of illumination and change of absorption from the calculated values , and two others the result of superposing two photographs in the following way .
Firstly , is screened , and ; and an exposure of 30 minutes gives an effect nearly proportional to on the left and on the right .
Then is closed completely , and the screen altered from to , and an additional exposure is given without changing the position of the photographic plate , so that an increase proportional to is produced on the left .
Now , since does not differ so very much from unity , we may take the resultant effect as equal to the sum , though in reality , as shown on p. 103 , it is less .
The effect on the left side of the plate is then proportional to , and that on the right due to a single exposure to , and if , these two should have been equaL The plates show that they are not , but give .
This is clearly the simplest method of exhibitin the phenomenon .
If the photographic effect were proportional to the intensity the difference would clearly be more marked .
I desire to thank Professors ARTHUR SCHUSTER and G. FITZGERALD for many useful suggestions and much valuable advice throughout this research , and also Professor J. H. POINTING , to whom the investigation owes its origin .

