260 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
On [ Apr. 16 the surface and underground waters with which it conies into contact as it rises through the volcanic duct , the violence of the eruption being in exact proportion to the quantity which so gains access .
IY .
" On the Fibrin-yielding Constituents of the Blood Plasma .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.B. , D.Sc .
, Demonstrator of Physiology in Guy 's Hospital .
From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , Sec. R.S. Received March 26 , 1885 .
There is no doubt that from every variety of blood plasma a proteid body may be 'isolated , which can by appropriate means be converted into fibrin .
This body , which is known as fibrinogen , has been more especially studied by Hammarsten .
This observer has shown that ; fibrinogen possesses characters which clearly distinguish it from the !
other supposed factor in coagulation , viz. , paraglobulin , and also that ; solutions of fibrinogen will , when treated with fibrin ferment , give !
rise to fibrin .
The only objection possible to Hammarsten 's experiments is that the body which he isolated has either previously to or during the process of isolation undergone alteration .
That it is in fact not the same body which is present in the circulating blood , but that it is , so to say , a sort of nascent fibrin .
My observations bear on this point .
Peptone plasma is obtained by injecting a solution of peptone into the veins of an animal , and bleeding it directly afterwards .
The blood does not clot , and by means of the centrifuge the plasma is obtained .
The injection of peptone produces this effect by preventing the interaction of leucocytes and plasma which normally takes place in shed blood.* By repeated centrifugalising , the whole of the corpuscular elements can be removed from this plasma , and the pure plasma thus obtained can be made to clot in the most complete manner , giving rise to a large quantity of fibrin , and this without the addition of any further proteid body , so that the plasma must contain dissolved in it the mother substance or substances of fibrin .
; In a note presented to the Society a few weeks ago , I described a new constituent of the plasma which gives rise to fibrin and to other bodies concerned in coagulation .
I need not refer at length in the present paper to this new substance .
It is separable from the plasma by cooling the latter , and after its removal the plasma still yields a large quantity of fibrin , and from this plasma , by Hammersten 's method , a body can be isolated , agreeing in all particulars with Hammersten's-fibrinogen , and clotting readily with fibrin ferment .
* Wooldridge : " Zur Gerinnung des Blutes , " " Archiv fur Physiol. , " Jahrg .
1883 , p. 389 .
885.1 Fibrin-yielding Constituents of Blood Plasma .
The following observations refer to snch a plasma in which the " eptonisation is very complete , and from which the body separable by ooling has been removed .
Behaviour of the Plasma towards Fibrin Ferment and Serum.* In the vast majority of cases , the plasma gives with either of the bove only a very minimal clot , a few scarcely perceptible threads or nembranes being the sole result of prolonged action .
Serum is not Lore effectual than ferment .
I But if , after the addition of serum or ferment , a stream of carbonic *cid be passed through the plasma , or the plasma be diluted with several times its volume of water , it clots through and through , becoming quite solid .
I The readiness with which coagulation takes place with C02 varies in different specimens , sometimes very rapidly , sometimes more slowly ; sometimes it only occurs when the C02 treatment and dilution are combined .
t There are two exceptions to the above statement:\#151 ; Firstly\#151 ; Sometimes neither ferment nor serum give by themselves the slightest trace of a clot in the plasma .
| Secondly\#151 ; They sometimes give a very considerable clot .
Both these exceptions are rare .
| ' Now , I take these experiments to show that the plasma contains a certain very small amount of true fibrinogen ( coagulable with serum ) .
In some cases even this small trace may be absent , in others it may be considerable .
But the bulk of the coagulable matter of the plasma is not directly coagulable with serum .
It is a body which is readily altered so as to clot with the serum or ferment .
This alteration can be effected by dilution , by C02 , or in the process of isolation .
The body is not fibrinogen , but it readily passes into the latter .
I now turn to another kind of plasma which gives like results , but which is free from the objection that in peptone plasma the proteids become altered by the peptone injection\#151 ; an objection which I do not think to be at all justified by the facts .
For the sake of convenience , I call it NaCI plasma .
It is obtained by receiving blood direct from the artery into a 10 per cent , solution of common salt , equal quantities of blood and salt solution being taken .
It is essential that the blood should be mixed with the salt solution with as little delay as possible .
Very frequently the plasma obtained from this blood is a little stained with heemoglobin .
Now if to this plasma ferment be added , a certain amount of clotting rapidly takes place ; it is usually very inconsiderable .
On * Serum from dog 's blood .
Ferment prepared from serum ( dog 's ) according to Schmidt 's method .
The dry powder is added directly to the plasma , to avoid the effect of dilution .
262 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
On the [ Apr. 16 very long standing no increase takes place .
If , however , after the removal of the slight clot , the plasma he diluted with four times its volume of water , it clots through and through .
Now 4 or 5 per cent , solution of salt does not interfere with the action of the fibrin ferment , and hence we must conclude that as in ' peptone plasma , so in salt plasma , the bulk of the coagulable matter is not in the form of fibrinogen , but as a substance which must first be altered by dilution .
These conclusions are confirmed by the behaviour of the plasma on heating .
As is well known , solutions of Hammersten 's fibrinogen coagulate on heating to 54\#151 ; 56 ' 0 .
If some NaCl plasma which has been treated with ferment , and from which the slight clot thereby caused has been removed , be heated to 56 ' , it remains perfectly clear ; long exposure to this temperature does not alter it , and it can be heated up to a very high temperature , !
90 ' and upwards , without the slightest coagulum forming , though !
at high temperatures it becomes opalescent .
The exact upper limit of coagulation varies ; it is usually over 90 ' 0 .
) Of course if haemoglobin be present , it interferes with the experiment .
Now it will be remembered that this plasma , in spite of the removal of the small quantity of fibrin , contains a large quantity of fibrin-yielding matter .
The fact that ferment gives a slight clot in NaCl plasma maybe taken as an indication that NaCl plasma does contain a certain small amount of true fibrinogen , and in fact if NaCl plasma which has not been treated with ferment be heated to 56 ' , it becomes turbid , and a slight coagulum forms .
This , like the clot obtained by ferment , is sometimes very small indeed , sometimes more considerable .
Before describing the behaviour of peptone plasma on heating , I must make a slight digression .
In my note previously referred to , * I showed that there exists dissolved in the plasma a body separable by cooling .
So long as this body is present , coagulation is produced by passage of a stream of carbonic acid through the plasma , the whole of the coagulable substance being converted into fibrin .
At the same time not only is fibrin ferment produced , but also a body capable of converting the coagulable body of the plasma into fibrinogen .
To make this perfectly clear , I shall give an example .
Peptone plasma , rich in the substance separable by cold , is treated with C03 ; it coagulates , the serum is pressed out from the clot and allowed to stand , when it again becomes alkaline .
On adding some of this serum to a new portion of plasma , the latter clots completely and with great rapidity .
The clotting is much more rapid than the original clotting with C02 .
* " On a New Constituent , \amp ; c. , " ante , p. 69 .
1885 .
] Fibrin-yielding Constituents of Blood Plasma .
Now this serum contains fibrin ferment ; but inasmuch as ferment does not cause anything more than a trace of clot in peptone plasma , the serum must evidently contain some special body which renders the plasma coagulable by ferment. .
It must contain the precursor of the fibrinogen which , as we have seen , appears to exist dissolved in iplasma .
I do not know what this special substance is ; it is derived \gt ; from the body separable by cold and also from leucocytes .
I will remark that it is not contained in ordinary serum , and hence is not paraglobulin .
Peptone plasma behaves in a totally different manner on heating , according as it contains a considerable amount of the body separable by cold or not .
If this body be present , the plasma remains , on heating to 56\#151 ; 57 ' , perfectly clear for a short time-five to fifteen minutes ; it then becomes gradually turbid , and finally a dense flocculent precipitate forms ; but it is a very long time\#151 ; hours\#151 ; before this precipitate reaches its maximum.* If it be absent , the plasma does not give on prolonged heating to 56\#151 ; 57 ' any coagulum , and remains perfectly free from any precipitate till a very high temperature , 80\#151 ; 90 ' , is reached .
It becomes opalescent at high temperatures .
In either case , whether the body separable by cold be absent or present , the plasma , if mixed with an equal quantity of 10 per cent , salt solution , remains free from any precipitate till 80\#151 ; 90 ' , or higher , is reached .
The upper limit varies somewhat , often being as high as 95 ' .
It must be understood that the precipitate mentioned above as occurring in plasma at 56\#151 ; 57 ' may or may not contain the body separable by cold , but it appears in very much larger quantity there than does the latter , and represents the whole of the coagulable matter of the plasma .
It would therefore appear that in the process of heating , the same special body is liberated from the substance separable by cold , - as is the case when the latter is acted on by carbonic acid , i.e. , a body capable of converting the precursor of fibrinogen into fibrinogen precipitable at 56 ' , and coagulable with fibrin ferment .
The presence of 5 per cent. NaCl prevents its development by means of carbonic acid , and also by means of heat .
In order not to obscure the point I have just been discussing , I have left out of consideration the very small trace of true fibrinogen pre-existent in peptone plasma .
This was mentioned at the beginning of the paper ; it always separates on beating the plasma to 56 " , whether it has been cooled or not , or whether salt be present or not , but it is generally so very small in quantity that it is difficult to see the minute flocculi that separate at 56 ' ; hence the statements I made above as to the plasma remaining clear are practically correct .
It must not however be forgotten that in some rare cases , peptone plasma * This slow clotting at 56-57 ' was observed by Fano .
VOL. XXXYIII .
U 264 Fibrin-yielding Constituents of Blood Plasma .
[ Apr. does give a considerable clot with serum or ferment alone , and such a plasma gives a dense clot at 56 ' , whether the substance removable by cold be present or not .
Now it is a well known fact that the injection into the veins of a strong solution of fibrin ferment , prepared in the ordinary way , is very rarely followed by any serious thrombosis .
The same is true of defi-brinated blood , and this is quite in conformity with the results I have described above .
This note is only a slight addition to the results I have already obtained in the coagulation question , and I am actively engaged in pursuing the subject .
I wish to take this opportunity of making a few statements with regard to the action of lecithin in producing coagulation .
I have already shown that lecithin is an important factor in the coagulation of the blood .
Since these publications , * my observations have only tended to completely confirm the statements I have already made , and I have in addition found that lecithin from the most varied sources , and lecithin prepared from the platinum salt , is perfectly active .
The sources which have yielded an active lecithin are lymph glands , blood , testis , brain , yeast .
Moreover , I have found that it exerts its influence on other varieties of plasma besides those which I have already quoted , viz. , peptone plasma and cooled plasma .
As to its exact mode of action I am not yet certain .
It no doubt gives rise to the appearance of a large quantity of fibrin ferment , as was described in my note " On the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment , " but I have reason to think that it has a further action .
The majority of the experiments on which the above paper has been founded , were carried out at the laboratory of the Brown Institution .
* " Further Observations on the Coagulation of the Blood , " " Journal of Physiol. , " 1883 ; " On the Coagulation of the Blood , " " Journal of Physiol. , " 1884 ; " On the Origin of the Fibrin Ferment , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " 1884 .

