1883.1 Formation of Uric Acid in the Animal Economy .
63 II .
" Preliminary Note on the Action of Calcium , Barium , and Potassium on Muscle .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Theodore Cash , M.D. Received February 13 , 1883 .
It has been shown by Ringer that calcium prolongs the contraction of the frog 's heart .
This prolongation is diminished by the subsequent addition of potash .
It occurred to us that calcium and potassium salts might exercise a similar action on voluntary muscle .
On trying it , we found this to be the case .
Calcium in dilute solution prolongs the duration of the contraction in the gastrocnemius of the frog .
Potassium salts subsequently applied shorten the contraction .
We have been led to try the effect of barium on muscle by considerations regarding the relations of groups of elements , according to Mendelejeff 's classification , to their physiological action .
These considerations we purpose to develop in another paper .
The effect of barium is very remarkable .
It produces a curve very much like that caused by veratria , both in its form and in the modifications produced in it by repeated stimuli .
We have found that the veratria curve is restored by potash to the normal in the case of the gastrocnemius , just as Ringer found it in the case of the frog 's heart .
The peculiarity which barium produces in the gastrocnemius is also abolished by potash .
We have tested a number of other substances belonging to allied groups , and find that some of them have a similar , though not identical , action with barium .
The results of these experiments , as well as the general considerations to which we have already alluded , we purpose to discuss in another paper .
III .
" On the Formation of Uric Acid in the Animal Economy and its relation to Hippnric Acid .
" By Alfred .
Baring Garrod , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 15 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) The results which have been arrived at , and discussed in this communication , may be summed up as follows :\#151 ; Introduction.\#151 ; The solubility of uric acid and of some of its more important salts at the temperature of the healthy human body has been determined and arranged in a tabular form .
These figures may be useful for future reference .
The action of urates of ammonium and sodium upon chlorides and phosphates of the same bases , when mixed with each other in different proportions , has been ascertained .

