III .
" Observations on the Anatomy and Affinities of the Phyllirrhoe bucephala ( Peron ) .
" By JOHN DENIS MACDONALD , Esq. , R.N. , Assistant-Surgeon of H.M.S.V. ' Torch .
' Communicated by Sir W. BURNETT , K.C.B. Received March 30 , 1855 .
As the true position of Peron 's genus Phyllirrhoe , and even the very existence of the animals composing it , have been matters of douibt to zoologists , during a late cruise to the Fiji Islands I determined to ply the towing-net with a little more diligence than usual , hoping to obtain a few of these almost hypothetical beings , and was rewarded by the capture of many specimens .
Some were taken in the neighbouirhood of Lord Howe 's Island , S. lat. 310 31"1 , E. long .
1590 5 " , some near Norfolk Island , S. lat. 290 211 , E. long .
168ยง 2 " , and others , although in smaller numbers , in different parts of our track .
They generally made their appearance after dusk in the evening , and presented a great diversity in size , form and other external characters , which is due to changes in the muscular system , a variable amount of pigment spots , &amp;c. Indeed at first I fully believed that several distinct species had been brought up together , but this idea was abandoned when I observed the most dissimilar forms gradually assume so close a resemblance to each other , as ultimately to render it difficult to distinguish them .
From these facts I am much inclined to think that the three species described by Quoy and Gaimard , viz. P. amboinensis .
P. punctulata and P. rubra , P. Lichtensteinii ( Eurydice Lichtensteinii of Eschscholtz ) and P. rosea of D'Orbigny , are all referable to Peron 's original species P. bucephala .
The body of Phyllirrhoe is elongated in form and compressed laterally , presenting for description an anterior and posterior extremity , a right and left surface , and a dorsal and ventral border .
The head is surmounted by two lengthy , somewhat flattened and acuminate tentacula ; the eyes lie beneath the skin , not being visible externally , and the mouth is in the form of a short truncated proboscis , with a vertical opening .
The oval-shaped body is on an average about one inch and a half in length , which is something over twice the measurement from the dorsal to the ventral bDorder taken at the middle or broadest part .
The tail is quadrilateral in figure , gradually widening towards its posterior border , which is exceedingly thin .
The outer integument is perfectly transparent and lined by muscular bundles , diisposed longitudinally , and somewhat more than their own breadth apart .
These communicate with one another by oblique branching slips , which thus form a kind of network enclosing long lozenge-shaped spaces .
Here and there nerve-trunks of considerable size accompany the longitudinal bundles , dividing off into smaller twigs , which distribute themselves at pretty equal distances in a direction more or less perpendicular to that of the muscular fibres .
Scattered about at irregular intervals amongst these structures are numerous reddish-brown pigment-spots , in the centre of each of which a clear vesicle is generally distinguiishable .
As above alluded to , the actual tint of this pigment , and the relative number of spots deposited within a certain space , determine both the general quiality and the depth of colour which are found to vary so much in different specimens of Phyllirrhoe .
The alimentary canal of this creature consists of a muscular tube lined with mucous membrane , extending without flexure from the mouth to the vent .
It comimences anteriorly in an oral dilatation , in connexion with which we notice a pair of lateral horny jaws articulated with each other superiorly , and beset with very minute and sharp-pointed teeth along the cutting edge , altogether much resembling those of Glaucus , and a lingual ribbon gradually increasing in diameter from before backwards , and supporting a pavement of long , conical , flattened and gracefully curved teeth with fine denticulations at the base .
The cerntral series of plates being symmetrical , the large tooth in each takes up a middle position , but in the lateral plates it inclines to the inner side .
In some examples I have observed certain lobulated bodies lying in contact with the buccal mass , and which I am disposed to regard as salivary glands .
The oesophagus is short , and suddenly expands into a moderately large stomach ; and the latter , having received the biliary ducts near its posterior extremity , is continued into the rectum , which passes directly backwards some little distance , and ends in the anus , on the right side of the body , at the unlion of its posterior and middle thirds .
The liver in Phyllirrho ; co-nsists of four elongated , tubular , and sacculated portions or lobes , disposed along the borders of the body , two lying above and two below the alimentary canal .
Each of the superior hepatic glands opens by a distinct duct into the superoposterior part of the stomach , while the ducts of the inferior ones unite to form a common tube joining it at its infero-posterior part .
The opposite or cTcal extremities of the two anterior hepatic lobes end in the neighbourhood of the head , while those of the others extend to within a short distance of the tail .
The secreting cells of these organs are of a rounded or polyhedral form , containing , besides the nucleus , a reddish-brown pigment and fatty globules .
Phyllirrhoe possesses a simple systemic heart , consisting of a single auricle and ventricle .
This organ lies upon the stomach , between the ducts of the two superior biliary glands ; and a large vessel or sinus , with many circular constrictions in its walls , may be traced towards the auricle , bringing back the a6rated blood from the hinder extremity of the body .
There are no visible respiratory organs , but it is probable that the cutaineous surface permits of the necessary exposure of the blood to the air contained in the surrounding medium .
The nervous system is well developed .
The supraand suboesophageal ganglia , with their commissural chords , form a close ring round the gullet immediately belhind the buccal mass .
The auditory sacs , which are filled with vibratory otokonia , appear to lie between both sets of ganglia , and the rudimentary visual organs , consisting each of a simple cell containing a refracting globule imbedded in black pigment , are also in contact with the nervous matter .
Besides the actual distribution of the nerves given off from the cephalic ganglia , I noticed nodules of neurine lying at the base of the tentacula , communicating by commissural threads , and sending off each a principal nerve to the corresponding tentacle .
The ganglionglobules were lined with a reddish-coloured pigment , deposited round the vesicuilar nuclei , and when twigs are given off from the smaller nerves , both the homogeneous neurilemma and the contained nervous matter break up like a dividing vessel , without preserving the individuality of distinct nerve tubes .
The sexes are combined in PPhyllirrhoP , the male and female generative openings lying close together on the right side of the body in the inferior gastero-hepatic space , and before the anal aperture .
The ovaries lie in the inferior recto-hepatic sp.ace , varying in inumber from two to five , in general .
They are dark-coloured , subrotund , and finiely lobulated bodies , from the fore part of each of which a very delicate duct arises , and all the ducts unite to form a single tube , with a trifling increase in its diameter .
This common oviduct , lined by a pavement of transparent epithelial cells , passes forwards beneath the stomach in a flexuous manner ; and in the inferior gastero-hepatic space , it first unites with the duct of the testis and again continues its devious course until it ends in the fundus of a muiich larger tube , whose lining membrane is armed with numerous conical and tooth-like processes , and to this is appended a long crecal process much resembling the spermatheca of Helix for example .
T5he external orifice of the male generative apparatus lies immediately posterior to that of the female organs .
The testis is rather small , subglobular in form , and closely connected with a short twisted tube* , much dilated at the middle part , and coated over with a layer of dark pigment cells .
It is with this tube , as above noticed , the small oviduct communicates , in order , as it would seem , to permit of self-impregnation , or to answer some other purpose , with the nature of which we are unacquain'ted ; but there is also an intromnittent organ , which , however , I have never seen properly exserted .
As to the affinities of Phyllirrhoe with Gasteropods , it may be observed that the animal is bisexual , that the eyes , like those of Glaucus and Iantthina , are very small and rudimentary , being closely applied to the ganglia of the brain , after the manner of the acoustic sacs , and that both Phyllirrhou and Glaucus agree in possessing two lateral horny jaws , articulated with each other superiorly , and bordered with minute conical teeth .
In the Glaucidce , the branchbie , which consist of simple papillary projections of the skin , are distributed in an equable manner over the dorsal region of the body ; and any deviation from this arrangement would naturally tend , either to a more definite localization , or still further dispersion .
It is the latter modification which appears to have taken place in Phyllirrhoe ; so that its respiratory vessels ramify minutely through the common integument , just as the vascular trunks analogous to those which break up in the pectinate gill , adapted for aquatic breathing , are subdivided , and spread themselves over the smooth walls of the lung-chamber in Pulmonifera .
As respects its affinity to the Pteropods , here too the lateral jaws of Phyllirrhod must be borne in mind , together with the almost complete suppression of the organs of vision .
It is worthy of note also , that its acoustic capsules contain otokonia , as in Pteropoda , instead of single globular otolithes like those of Glaucus , and there is some reason to believe that the long tentacula , so called , are the homologues of the cephalic fins of Pteropods .
The particular features of Phyllirrhoe , expressed in the last paragraph , also serve to distinguish it from the Heteropoda , but it somewhat approximates this order in the general conformation of its body , which is elongated , laterally compressed , and presents a kind of proboscis at the anterior , and a rudder-fin at the posterior extremity .
There is also , as it would appear to be , a small remnant of the foot on the inferior thin margin of the body , and the lateral undulatory motion .
' of the animal in the water exactly resembles that of Cerophora , or Carinaria .
The heart of Phyllirrhoie , in common with that of Heteropods in general , holds a dorsal position .
The auricle lies posterior to the ventricle , as in Cerophora and Firola , but the reverse is the case in Atlanta and Carinaria , the difference being due , to the relation which the respiratory surface bears to the hieart itself , lying in every case on the auricular side .
Moreover it is remarkable that the rectum is directed backwards in the former instances , but turns forwards in the latter , taking an opposite course to that of the circulation through the heart .
It may be observed in conclusion , that in Heteropoda the viscera are closely packed together so as to occupy the smallest possible space , while they are widely distributed through the abdomen in Phyllirrhoe ; thus , again , calling to mind its relationship to the Pteropoda .
This paper is illustrated with drawings representing the animal described and some of the details of its internal structure .

