Relation between Capillary Pressure and .
, 439 5 .
The fatiguing light should chiefly affect the region used for the fatigue .
This is not the case .
6 .
An after-image should not be seen in the absence of all external light , except such as would arise from the Eigenlicht if this subsidiary hypothesis of Helmholtz be allowed .
In the latter case the after-image should change colour as in all other cases according to this theory .
7 .
On the Young-Helmholtz theory yellow should change to green after fatigue to red , or to red after fatigue to green .
This is not the case .
The Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
II.\#151 ; The Secretion of the Aqueous and the Intraocular Pressure .
By Leonard Hill , F.R.S. , and Martin Flack ( Eliza Ann Alston Research Scholar ) .
( Received May 29 , \#151 ; Read June 27 , 1912 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory , London Hospital Medical College , London Hospital Research Fund .
) Many observations have been recorded of the- aqueous or intraocular pressure .
The method generally used has been to pass a hollow needle through the cornea and connect this with a manometer .
J. Herbert Parsons* says : " The first essential is . . .
that no fluid shall enter or leave the eye whilst the needle is being inserted .
" It is no less essential that the aqueous shall not escape along the track of the needle or into the manometer .
Although expressing the opinion cited above , Parsons gives the figure of a needle employed by him , which not only has an open end , but also two side holes , one nearer to , one farther from , the open end ; so contrived , he says , to give free admission to the aqueous fluid .
Such a needle seems to us especially liable to allow the escape of the aqueous during insertion .
Starling and E. E. Hendersonf used a needle with an open eyehole , from which fluid was allowed to escape at a pressure conjectured to be greater than the pressure of the aqueous .
By this means they believed to prevent the escape of aqueous during insertion .
It is not certain that this means is effectual , since pressure on the eyeball raises the * The Pathology of the Eye , ' vol. 3 , p. 1049 .
Hodder and Stoughton , London ( undated ) .
t * Journ. Physiol. , ' 1904 , vol. 31 , p. 305 .
440 Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , intraocular pressure greatly , and considerable pressure may be required at the moment of insertion .
The method also permits the en^ry of fluid into the eye should the pressure of the fluid employed be greater than that of the aqueous .
We have measured the aqueous pressure by means of a specially constructed hollow needle , used in conjunction with the method employed by one of us ( L. H. ) when measuring the intracranial or cerebro-spinal fluid pressure.* The needle ( fig. 1 ) consists of two hollow tubes , one revolving within the other .
Fig. 1 .
One end of the outer tube has a solid needle point attached .
Each tube has a side eyehole , which in one position correspond one with the other .
On revolving the inner tube through a quarter of a circle the holes no longer correspond and are closed .
An index arm attached to the inner tube shows when the needle is closed and when open .
This L.H. needle\#151 ; as we shall call it\#151 ; is connected by rubber tubing to a short length of capillary glass tubing , which in turn is connected by a T-piece with a manometer and with a pressure bpttle .
The pressure bottle is balanced by a weight and can be raised or lowered with ease ( fig. 2 ) .
The whole system is filled with Ringer 's solution , and an air bubble introduced within the capillary glass tube to act as an index .
We find it convenient to introduce this air bubble by means of a hypodermic syringe , the needle of which is inserted through the rubber tube at its junction with the capillary glass tube .
The zero position of the air bubble is marked while the needle is held open at the level of the eye of the animal , the surface of the solution in the pressure bottle being at the same level .
The needle is then closed and made to transfix the cornea ; the inner tube is turned so as to open the needle , while , at the same time , the pressure bottle is raised until the air index is restored to the zero mark and the pressure of the aqueous compensated .
The reading of the manometer gives the pressure in centimetres * Leonard Hill , ' The Cerebral Circulation .
, ' \#171 ; T. and A. Churchill , London , 1896 .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
441 of water .
The method of counterbalancing the pressure prevents the entry of aqueous into the manometer .
The same method was employed by v. Schulten and by E. E. Henderson and Starling .
These last two researchers , however , introduced the air bubble index after the needle had been inserted , and then found the pressure which kept it stationary .
Taking this into consideration , also the fact that they inserted the needle with fluid flowing from it at a Fig. 2 .
pressure conjectured to be greater than the aqueous pressure , we conclude that their measurements do not give with certainty the normal intraocular pressure .
In some preliminary experiments carried out by Thomson Henderson and one of us ( L. H. ) , an open needle was used and readings were obtained which seemed to show that the intraocular pressure approximated to the intracranial pressure ; the two varied in the same way concomitantly with changes in the general circulatory pressure .
It seemed not unlikely that these readings were vitiated by the escape of fluid during insertion , or afterwards , along the track of the needle , and were thus too low .
The fluid may escape when the open eyehole of the needle is half inside and half outside the cornea .
Also , when the small cylindrical needle has been passed through , it is difficult to prevent the leakage of fluid along its track .
Any loss of fluid lowers the Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , pressure and lessens the tension of the eyeball considerably .
Thomson Henderson recognised the need for the invention of a proper needle , but opportunity did not allow him to continue this research .
The L.H. needle is cone-shaped and somewhat larger than a hypodermic needle ; the cornea grips it tightly , and since it is closed no fluid escapes at the moment of insertion .
With practice , we have come to introduce the needle , as a rule , without leak .
In our earliest experiments we often failed to do so and obtained readings which were too low .
A possible source of error in the method arises from the volume of the needle introduced within the eyeball .
If blood and not aqueous fluid is displaced from the eyeball in an amount corresponding to the bulk of the needle introduced , the intraocular pressure may rise and the readings be too high .
The needle might act as does a clot , or a foreign body , when introduced into the intracranial cavity ; by taking up room a clot expresses blood from the cerebral veins and increases the pressure in the exsanguined part from capillary-venous towards arterial pressure .
If the bulk be small compared to the whole the result will be negligible .
We have tested whether this be so by comparing the readings taken with the L.H. needle inserted in one eye and a hypodermic needle inserted in the other , the latter reading being taken immediately after insertion of the needle , before leakage has taken place .
When introduced with a sudden thrust we obtain , with a small hypodermic needle , readings quite as high as with the L.H. needle .
In some cases the two needles were inserted into the same eye .
Since these readings ( Table I ) closely corresponded we have no reason to doubt the accuracy of our method .
Table I. Animal .
Anaesthetic .
L.H. needle .
Hypodermic needle .
Remarks .
Cat Ether mm. Hg .
54 mm. Hg .
52 B.P. 100 .
Readings taken in different eyes .
Hypodermic quickly fell to 18 mm. Hg .
Both readings in same eye .
When hypodermic read 46 , L.H. also read 46 mm. Hg .
, Needles in opposite eyes .
Hypodermic gradually sank to 30 mm. Hg .
Needles in opposite eyes .
Dog f Morphine \ Ether t 53 46 \ Cat Ether J 51 .
l 49-8 Cat Ether 50 50 *5 Kitten 36 36 Doe \#187 ; Dead 16 15 Right eye .
1 Needles in same Left " J eye .
15 15 The average intraocular pressure as measured by 15 or more observers is 20-30 mm. Hg .
In several of our animals , especially those anaesthetised 1912.1 Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
443 with ether , we have obtained readings much exceeding these figures\#151 ; 45-65 mm. Hg ( Tables I and II ) .
With chloroform as the anaesthetic , especially in deep anaesthesia with low blood pressures , we have obtained in some cases readings approximating more closely to those of other observers .
This has also been the case when any leakage of aqueous has occurred .
After such leakage the intraocular pressure may measure 20-30 mm. Hg , and the eye then feels to the finger much less tense than does the other normal eye .
Table II .
Anaesthetic .
Normal intraocular pressure with L.H. needle .
On squeezing the belly .
Rise .
On stopping the heart beat .
Fall .
Remarks .
Chloroform ... cm .
H20 .
31 mm. Hg .
23 cm .
H20 .
cm .
H20 .
\#187 ; ... 28 21 124 12 A.0.E 73 54*4 \#151 ; \#151 ; 80 cm .
HoO on very light Urethane 38 28 *3 _ anaesthesia .
A.C.E 73 64*4 \#151 ; \#151 ; Reading 70 cm .
H20 after Ether 76 56 *7 12 22 1 hour .
B.P. 118 mm. Hg .
) ) 60 45 12 20 B.P. 110 mm. Hg .
33 87 65 13 60 B.P. 190 mm. Hg .
On 33 84 62*7 pithing medulla , B.P. fell quickly to 44 mm. Hg , eye to 54 cm .
HsO = 40 mm. Hg .
33 ... ... ... ... 68 50*7 \#151 ; \#151 ; Chloroform ... 22 16*4 !
\#151 ; Animal deeply under , leak .
33 ... 43 32 \#151 ; 21 By anaesthetising deeply 33 \#171 ; * .
36 27 went to 29 cm .
HaO , on light anaesthesia rose to 66 cm .
H20 .
On deep anaesthesia fell to Ether 55 41 26 cm .
H20 .
\#187 ; 68 50*7 10 26 33 72 58 *7 6 13 33 ... ... ... ... 84 62 *7 8 \#151 ; 33 66 49*2 12 Since the intraocular pressure is raised by traction or by pressure on the eyeball , it is necessary to support the needle .
We always hold the needle in such a way as to give the lowest readings of pressure .
When water is forced into the anterior chamber of an excised eye at a pressure of about 50 mm. Hg , the tension of the eye feels about the same as that of the human eye .
We are certain , therefore , that the normal intraocular pressure is much higher than has been supposed .
In some of our experiments we have measured the intracranial pressure , 444 Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , or that of the cerebro-spinal fluid , at the same time as the intraocular pressure .
We find that we can pass another needle of similar construction through the occipito-atlantal membrane and thus compare under the same conditions the aqueous and the cerebro-spinal fluid pressure .
In this part of the research we used cats and a few dogs .
The animal is ansesthetised with ether , and after a tracheal cannula has been inserted , it is placed belly downwards on a flat , hot-water tin with its head over the end of the tin .
The occipito-atlantal membrane is exposed by separating the muscles from the occipital bone after making a median longitudinal incision ; weighted hooks are used , two to keep open the sides of the incision , one , fastened to the anterior end of the wound and passed over the snout , to keep the head in position .
The needle is passed through the membrane from side to side so that its eyehole opens into the bath of cerebro-spinal fluid .
The pressure of the aqueous is much higher than that of the cerebro-spinal fluid , or intracranial pressure , e.g. one may be 5-10 cm .
of water , the other 30-60 cm .
The air indices in either case pulse with each heart beat , but while the index of the cerebral instrument follows with large excursions the respiratory variations of the venous pressure , that of the eye remains unaffected .
The pressure of the aqueous is so high that the variations of venous pressure do not influence it .
Starling and E. E. Henderson also noted the fact that the intraocular pressure is not affected by changes in the general venous pressure .
The observations of others ( v. Schulten , Starling and Henderson , etc. ) show that the intraocular pressure varies in the same direction as the arterial pressure .
In this respect the aqueous and the cerebro-spinal pressures go together .
Ligation of the carotid artery on the same side lowers the aqueous pressure 5-10 mm. Hg ; compression of the abdominal aorta raises it 10-20 mm. Hg ; section of the spinal cord in the cervical region lowers it 10-15 mm. Hg ; stoppage of the heart lowers it 10-12 mm. Hg .
In general we confirm the above results .
Thus , tightening a string round the neck caused a fall of 15 mm. Hg in the intraocular pressure .
During stimulation of the depressor nerve the arterial pressure fell 36 mm. Hg , the intraocular 8 mm. Hg .
Stimulation of the cervical sympathetic caused a rise of intraocular pressure of 1\#151 ; 2 mm. Hg , followed by a fall of 4-5 mm. Hg .
Starling and E. E. Henderson ascribe the rise to contraction of the orbital muscle and the fall to vaso-constriction of the intraocular arteries .
Dr. W. T. Lister examined the eye of one of our cats with the ophthalmoscope and was unable to note any constriction of the retinal vessels during stimulation which produced full dilatation of the pupil .
We would point out that dilatation of the pupil must cause expulsion of the blood in the 1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
445 iris , and that the volume of blood so expelled must be made good either by a secretion of aqueous or by expansion of other blood-vessels , in the ciliary region .
The latter probably takes place , and as the dilating iris shrinks the veins which drain it dilate in the ciliary region .
We have no evidence to offer as to how the small changes of intraocular pressure occur during the stimulation of the cervical sympathetic .
During asphyxia we obtained a rise of 12 mm. Hg in the eye and 20 mm. Hg in the brain .
The intracranial pressure is much lower than the intraocular and is affected by any rise of the general venous pressure , while the intraocular is not .
Therefore , the intracranial pressure is raised during asphyxia both by the rise in arterial and in the general venous pressure .
On squeezing the heart the intraocular pressure falls 15-20 mm. Hg , while the intracranial rises 5-7 mm. Hg .
Here again the difference is due to the greater effect of the venous rise on the brain .
Compressing the abdomen causes a rise of intraocular pressure ( 3-10 mm. Hg .
) and of intracranial pressure ( 5-15 mm. Hg ) .
Here also the rise in venous pressure adds itself to the arterial in the case of the brain and not in the case of the eye .
If the heart be divided , there occurs a rapid initial fall of pressure , followed by a slow fall .
A well-recognised sign of death is the flaccid cornea .
The initial fall is due to the fall of arterial pressure ; the residual pressure demonstrates the existence of an intraocular pressure which is not circulatory but secretory in origin , a point of importance .
The tense form of the eyeball , and the perfection of the eye as an optical instrument , depend primarily on the secretory activity of the ciliary processes .
It would be much to the disadvantage of an animal if the eye became flaccid at once on stopping the arterial blood supply to the eye .
The intraocular pressure is of circulatory origin , and varies with the arterial pressure , but it is the secretory power of the cells of the ciliary processes which determines the circulatory pressure in the eyeball .
Turning to the excellent historical survey given by J. Herbert Parsons* of past work on this subject , we cannot find therein any clear conception of the physical conditions which underlie the intraocular pressure and the circulation in the eyeball .
Leber , Parsons , Henderson , and Starling conceive that the capillary pressure is much higher than the intraocular , e.g. in the ciliary processes , and that the aqueous is a filtration product depending on the difference of pressure on either side of the membrane .
" What is of prime importance , " writes Parsons , f " is the fact that everything tends to show that the secretion of aqueous is directly dependent upon the * Loc .
tit .
, vol. 3 , pp. 1040\#151 ; 1070 .
+ Loc .
tit .
, vol. 3 , p. 1048 .
Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , intracapillary pressure , and that it varies passu with that pressure " Again , on pp. 1046-7 : " The capillary pressure in most parts of the body is normally about 15 to 20 mm. Hg ( Starling ) .
No means has yet been devised for measuring the intraocular capillary pressure , since the veins are so small , and anastomose so quickly and profusely after leaving the eye , that it is impossible to measure the venous pressure .
" ... " In any case , " he continues , " it is clear that , with an external pressure\#151 ; the normal intraocular pressure\#151 ; of 20 to 30 mm. Hg , the capillary pressure must be considerably above this level , and we shall probably not be far wrong in considering it equal to 40 or 50 mm. Hg .
" We maintain , on the other hand , that the physical conditions which pertain in the eyeball are closely similar to those which pertain in the cranio-vertebral cavity , and that the results obtained and the conclusions drawn by one of us* in regard to the cerebro-spinal fluid and the cerebral circulation hold good for the eye .
Thomson Hendersonf alone has upheld this point of view , and has expressed it with great clearness .
" The eyeball is contained by an unyielding capsule of fixed volume , and the circulation is conducted through an elastic system of vessels .
The intraocular pressure is the lowest circulatory pressure in the closed sphere of the eyeball .
" In the case of the intracranial contents , the pressure of the cerebro-spinal fluid , the pressure in the cerebral veins , and the pressure required to overcome that of the brain against the skull wall , and flatten it when it bulges into a trephine hole , are found to be one and the same .
The following passage shows that ParsonsJ rejects the application of these findings to the eye : " We know that the outflow of blood from the eye by the veins is usually a steady stream .
It therefore follows that the venous pressure must also be considerably above the average in other parts of the body , since , if it were below the intraocular pressure , the veins would collapse , and would only be reopened when the internal pressure rose above that level .
It has been thought that increase of intraocular pressure would tend to close the venae vorticosae , but experimental investigation does not bear out this view .
The very oblique course of these vessels through the sclerotic is further a protective mechanism against kinking , such as might be produced by the action of the ciliary muscle in dragging forward the equatorial region of the choroid .
As long as the intraocular tension is constant , the fluid contents of the globe must be constant , any outflow of fluid , either blood or lymph , being equalised by a corresponding inflow of * Leonard Hill , loc. cit. t Thomson Henderson , 'Glaucoma .
' Arnold , London , 1910 .
J Loc .
cit. , vol. 3 , p. 1047 .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
44 secretion .
Under these circumstances , the eye is temporarily a rigid box , and , as is shown to be the case in the brain by Leonard Hill , the venous pressure is equal to the intracranial pressure , so here , too , the venous pressure will also be equal to the intraocular pressure .
This will not hold for variations of intraocular pressure , as it does in the case of the brain , because under these circumstances the eyeball is no longer a rigid case .
" Yet Parsons* cites Roster 's experiments , which prove that an increase of intraocular pressure from 19 mm. Hg to 70 mm. Hg only increases the radius of the globe 0-027 mm. , or the volume 45 cu .
mm. , or 7/ 1000 of the original volume .
( Roster 's experiments were done on the freshly excised eye .
) E. E. Henderson and Starlingf sought to find evidence to prove that the aqueous is a filtration produced by a higher capillary pressure in the ciliary processes .
They opened the anterior chamber and measured the outflow of aqueous , and observed the effect of obstructing the aorta , and so raising the arterial pressure in the eye .
These conditions are wholly abnormal .
Gfreat dilatation of the vessels of the ciliary processes and the iris results , because , as we hold , the capillaries are no longer supported by the exactly equivalent counter-pressure of the aqueous .
The protein content of the aqueous rapidly rises from the normal , less than 005 , to 3 , 4 , and even 5 per cent. , the fluid becoming coagulable .
If the drop in intraocular pressure is suddenly made , red corpuscles may appear in the fluid on raising the arterial pressure , the epithelium of the ciliary processes changes , and blisters may form beneath it ( Greeff ) .
The operation actually converts the normal conditions , which are quite otherwise , into those supposed to exist by E. E. Henderson and Starling , and the result is to give a wholly different fluid .
To open the eyeball has the same result as abrading the skin .
The plasma escapes through the damaged and unsupported capillaries .
After we have freely opened and emptied the anterior chamber , we have observed the effect of raising the arterial pressure by compressing the abdomen .
The iris and the ciliary body are congested , and with the lens bulge forwards , coming into contact with the cornea .
This is because the pressure of the aqueous no longer balances the capillary venous pressure .
Compressing the abdomen after opening the anterior chamber causes blood to escape from the iris .
A convulsive movement of the animal may have the same effect , hence the bleeding which occurs in lesions of the eyeball .
Plasma escapes from the anterior chamber under these conditions , just as it does from the skin when abraded .
Starling and E. E. Henderson felt the * Loc .
tit .
, vol. 3 , p. 1042 .
+ Loc .
tit .
448 Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 unconvincing nature of the results so obtained , and turned to another method of enquiry .
After introducing a hollow needle , and balancing the pressure they divided the heart of the animal , and measured the rate of movement inwards of the air index ; they say : " This rate must be equal to the rate of production of fluid previously obtaining in the eye under normal conditions of circulation .
" Parsons says :* " That constant reabsorption of the fluid secreted is taking place is shown by the injection of an indifferent fluid into the anterior chamber of a freshly removed eye under constant pressure .
" " The fluid can be seen to exude from the cut ends of the anterior ciliary and vortex veins , and the pericorneal region becomes injected with the coloured fluid ( Priestley Smith ) .
" Again , " The difference between the amounts of fluid entering the living and the dead eye will give the amount of fluid secreted by the eye at the given pressure ( Adaimik , Jesner , Niesmanoff)."f In our opinion these are amazing claims to make , and show how far the authors are from what we hold to be a true conception of the conditions in the living eyeball .
As in the case of the brain , the mean capillary-venous pressure and the intraocular pressure are one and the same .
Each pulse keeps up the pressure ; brings into play the elasticity of the eye and maintains the onflow and outflow of blood .
Evidence shows that the aqueous is secreted by the ciliary processes and absorbed by the capillary-venous network of the iris and the iridial angle .
Nuel and BenoitJ have traced the paths of absorption by injecting Chinese ink into the living eye .
There is nothing in the structure of the iris , ciliary processes , or retina which can act as a rigid membrane and allow an inequality of pressure between the blood in the capillaries and veins and the fluid in the aqueous or vitreous outside .
Measurement has shown that the vitreous and aqueous pressures are the same ( Bellarminoff , Hamburger , Priestley Smith ) .
The whole eyeball must be at one and the same fluid pressure , namely , the lowest hydrostatic pressure , and this is the pressure in the veins at their exit through the sclerotic .
In the case of the brain we know there is no difference of pressure on either side of the capillary membrane ; measurement has proved this , the capillary-venous pressure and cerebro-spinal fluid pressure are the same .
When , as Starling and E. E. Henderson did , we divide the heart of the animal , the air index moves towards the needle in the anterior chamber , first because the blood at once leaves the eyeball , secondly , because the veins are no longer filled and there is within them no pressure to counter that of the aqueous outside .
The spaces * Loc .
cit. , vol. 3 , p. 966 .
+ Parsons , loc. cit. , vol. 3 , p. 967 .
J 1 Arch. f. Ophthal .
, ' 1895 , vol. 41 .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and .449 of Fontana are covered only by a layer of endothelium less than 1/ x , thick ; * by this , supported as it is by an equality of fluid pressure , aqueous on one side , venous blood on the other , the normal absorption of the aqueous is controlled .
In the bloodless eye of the dead animal the spaces are converted into filtering structures by forcing fluid into the anterior chamber .
Unsupported on one side , the delicate membranes are ruptured and the fluid drains away .
Since the pores of this filter are small , serum will naturally escape more slowly than salt solution .
Starling and E. E. Henderson found this to be the case .
No further refutation is needed of their conclusion that by their second method the normal rate of secretion can be measured .
The only convincing method of studying the normal secretion of the aqueous is that introduced by Ehrlich , f who traced it in rabbits by a subcutaneous injection of fluorescein .
He states that the dye can be observed flowing into the anterior chamber from behind and round the edge of the iris , producing a characteristic median vertical line which he regards as the resultant of fluid eddies .
In the young animal the fluorescent line may appear within five to seven minutes after the subcutaneous injection has been made .
In the old the phenomenon may fail or appear after a period twice or thrice as long .
The method shows that there is a current of aqueous entering the anterior chamber , therefore the aqueous must circulate through the chamber , and this more actively in the young .
After the cornea has been punctured and the aqueous let out of the eye , the dye enters rapidly , so that within five to six minutes after the injection the anterior chamber appears full of fluorescent green water .
While as little as one part of fluorescein in 2,000,000 is visible against a dark background , the concentration of the dye in the blood at any one time must be very low .
Ehrlich draws the conclusion that the rapidity with which the dye appears in the aqueous shows that a process of active secretion is taking place , which concentrates the dye .
Further work has shown that , after intravenous injection , the dye may appear in the aqueous within a minute , the ciliary processes becoming rapidly stained .
After a subcutaneous injection the colour of the aqueous is most intense in three to four hours , fading away in six to 24 hours .
Since fluorescein injected into the vitreous remains for two or three weeks there can be no rapid circulation of fluid in the vitreous chamber .
Subconjunctival injection of suprarenal extract not only prevents the appearance of Ehrlich's-line , but if the anterior chamber be punctured , it refills very slowly and with a fluid containing little if any excess of protein ( Wesseley ) .
After the application of eserine or pilocarpine to the eye , the fluorescein appears and * Thomson Henderson .
+ Ehrlich , 'Deutsch .
Med. Woehen .
, ' 1882 , Nos. 2-4 .
450 .
Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 disappears more quickly , a result attributed to the increased surface of the iris .
To Ehrlich has been attributed the suggestion that an appreciable amount of intraocular fluid may be secreted directly into the anterior chamber by the anterior surface of the iris ( Starling and Henderson , also Parsons ) .
We find nothing to confirm this in Ehrlich 's paper .
He describes the fluorescein as coming round the edge of the iris , the context clearly showing that he conceives the secretion as taking place from the ciliary processes .
" Aus diesem leicht auszufuhrenden und geradezu nicht verfehlenden Versuche ergiebt sich ohne Weiteres , dass bei der Regeneration des Kammerwassers zunachst die Yorderflache der Iris vollkommen unbetheiligt ist , und dass diese ausschliesslich von der hinteren Kammer aus erfolgt .
" That there can be no difference of fluid pressure inside the eyeball , and therefore , that the aqueous is a true secretion , we have shown by a series of experiments in which the flow of blood is observed from the venae vorticosse during alterations in the pressure of the fluid in the anterior chamber .
The rim of the orbital cavity is carefully cut away and the exit of one of the vortex veins exposed .
Our needle is then carefully introduced into the anterior chamber and the pressure measured .
A snick is now made in the vortex vein so that the blood flows freely out .
Upon increasing the pressure in the eyeball by raising the pressure bottle the flow of blood becomes less and less until finally it ceases to flow.* Measurement of the pressure at which this cessation of the flow occurs shows that it corresponds closely with the carotid pressure of the same side .
Thus , to give an illustrative example , it was found that it required 160 cm .
of water ( 120 mm. Hg ) to stop the flow of blood from an eye the normal aqueous pressure of which was 69 cm .
of water ( 51*5 mm. Hg ) .
The carotid pressure of the same side taken immediately afterwards was 118 mm. Hg .
Y. Schultenf carried out a somewhat similar experiment in order to measure the pressure in the ophthalmic artery .
He inserted a cannula into the vitreous and drove in saline solution under increasing pressure until the blood flow in the retinal arteries was just stopped as observed ophthalmoscopi-cally .
It was found to be only a few ( 2-15 mm. Hg ) below that in the large arteries .
In these experiments the fluid pressure is equally distributed throughout the eyeball , and the venous pressure rises 'pari passu with the fluid pressure , for the veins are reduced in volume and blood expressed until the whole * The iris dilates when the pressure is raised , and this dilatation is prevented by section of the cervical sympathetic nerve .
t Parsons , loc. cit. , vol. 3 , p. 1046 .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and .
451 vascular system of the eye becomes a rigid system , the arterial pressure pertaining alike to arteries , capillaries , and veins .
The outflow of blood from the veins of the eye ceases when the fluid pressure is made greater than the arterial pressure .
It is obvious in this case that the pressure of the fluid outside and the blood inside the capillaries must be one and the same .
The conditions are similar to those which are established in the brain when an artery ruptures and blood escapes at arterial pressure into the cranial cavity .
The veins are compressed and the blood within them expressed until the pressure in the exsanguined brain rises to arterial pressure .
When the haemorrhage ceases and the blood clots the pressure in the brain still remains high because of the volume of the clot , which takes up the room formerly occupied by blood in the cerebral vessels .
The pressure which rules in the exsanguined part is the arterial pressure .
The cause of the cerebral pressure is thus the arterial pressure , but the height of that pressure is determined not only by the force of the heart beat but also by the volume of fluid extruded within the skull cavity .
The difference between the brain and the eye is that the secretory pressure within the eye is maintained at a much higher level .
The cerebro-spinal fluid is secreted at a pressure about the same as the general venous pressure , and saline injected into the intracranial cavity at a higher pressure is rapidly absorbed ; the capillaries and veins afford the pathway for absorption .
If saline be run into the subdural space at a high pressure the outflow from the cerebral veins ceases when the arterial pressure is exceeded by that of the fluid forced into the skull cavity .
The same , we show , holds good for the eye .
In the case of the salivary gland , enclosed as it is in a capsule , the secretory pressure regulates the circulatory pressure .
When the secretion is obstructed , the secretory pressure rises , the distension of the alveoli narrows the veins and the capillary venous pressure and the tenseness of the gland rise pari passu with the secretory pressure ; the arteries are dilated , the whole circulatory system approximates to a rigid system , with almost the full arterial pressure ruling throughout , giving a greatly accelerated outflow from the veins .
Finally the salivary pressure may rise much above the arterial pressure , but even then the circulation is not strangulated , because the membranse propriae limit the expansion of the alveoli .
In the brain and in the eye there exist no such membranse proprise , which can permit a difference of pressure between the secreted fluid and the blood .
The ciliary processes are soft protoplasmic structures hanging in a bath of aqueous .
The pressure of the blood within the capillaries and of the aqueous without must be one and the same .
When fluid is forced in at a higher Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , pressure than the arterial the capillaries are rendered bloodless .
When the aqueous is allowed to escape , blood is forced in in increased volume to fill up the vacant space .
The pressure within and without is no longer balanced , the dilated capillaries leak , and plasma passes out .
Just as in the salivary gland the secretory pressure rules the circulatory pressure and tenseness of the gland , so the pressure of the ciliary processes rules the internal pressure of the eyeball .
When the cells swell by imbibition of fluid and secrete the aqueous , droplet by droplet , there is less room for blood ; hence the veins are narrowed and the pressure rises .
It is clear that the secretory pressure produced by any cell in a vesicle of secretion may at any moment be greater than the capillary-venous , pressure , but little by little , as the secretion is poured out , the two pressures , that of the aqueous and that of the blood , rise together .
An immeasurably small difference of secretory pressure suffices to give the circulation of the aqueous .
Absorption goes hand in hand with secretion , keeping the intraocular secretory pressure uniform .
When the arterial pressure rises the intraocular pressure is raised , for the increased capillary-venous pressure is immediately transmitted to the aqueous .
It goes without saying that a rise in the general arterial pressure would not necessarily produce an alteration of intraocular pressure , if the intraocular arteries were constricted at the same time .
At any moment there can be within the eye less blood and more tissue fluid , or more blood and less tissue fluid .
Thus , within such encapsulated organs as the marrow of bone , the brain , and the eye , the volume of blood is not fixed .
It can slowly change , increased by the transference of the tissue fluid or substance into the blood , diminished by transference of the plasma , fat , etc. , to and turgescence of the tissues .
The volume of blood within such organs is not affected by sudden variations of arterial pressure , for the expansion of the arteries is balanced by a corresponding shrinkage in the volume of the veins .
The Monroe-Kellie doctrine is true only so far as regards these quick alterations .
Ophthalmic surgeons inform us that when the aqueous has leaked away the tension of the eyeball is not rapidly restored even though the wound is closed .
Parsons* says " Prolonged pressure ( applied ) externally gradually squeezes out fluid from the eye , so that the pressure again becomes normal , but on removing the external pressure the tension remains subnormal until increased secretion produces compensation\#151 ; a comparatively slow process .
Hence after prolonged use of a pressure bandage the intraocular pressure may remain subnormal for some time .
" The secretion and vaso-dilatation are adjusted to suit the conditions which pertain .
In the one case it is required that the * Loc .
cit.j vol. 3 , p. 1056 .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
453 tension be kept down so that the wound may heal , in the other case the contents of the eyeball are diminished by the pressure and become set at a lesser volume .
It takes time for aqueous , blood , and tissue volume to return to the old volume when the pressure is removed .
The capacity of the capillary vessels may be actually lessened by long applied pressure ; both tissue and capillaries atrophy .
Those who hold the mechanical theory of filtration of the aqueous assume that there is a hydrostatic difference of pressure on either side of the capillary wall .
This assumption requires positive proof .
It has never , in our opinion , been demonstrated that the pressure in the capillaries is higher than that of the surrounding tissue , or of the secretory fluid : neither in the case of the glomerular secretion of the kidney , nor in the case of lymph formation , and certainly not in the case of the cerebro-spinal or aqueous fluid .
It has been assumed that if the arterial and venous pressures are raised , that in the capillaries must necessarily be raised also .
This is not so .
In the limbs the capillaries are emptied by the compressive action of the muscles and by change of posture .
We have shown that in the dependent position of a limb there may be a high pressure in the arteries and , owing to gravity , a very considerable pressure in the large veins .
But at the same time there may be no positive pressure in the capillaries after they have been emptied by muscular movement .
Anyone can see that this is so , by holding his hand down and clenching his fist several times .
Each time the capillaries are blanched , the valves in the veins permit this pumping action , and until the capillary bed is again filled to distension no positive pressure results .
The respiratory movements , the intestinal contractions and the movements of the skeletal muscles are all designed to pump the blood from the capillaries and keep a low pressure " within them in any posture .
Distension of the capillaries leads to a sense of discomfort which results in movement .
In a case of hydrocephalus under Dr. Warner in the London Hospital the fluid was drawn off ; after the introduction of the needle , we measured the pressure by the air index and counter-pressure method .
It equalled about 20 cm .
of water .
On lifting up the head of the child the pressure of the fluid did not fall , as one might expect under the influence of gravity , but rose owing to the compressive action of the hands which raised the head , a bag of fluid .
It is obvious in such a case that the cerebral-venous pressure and the fluid must be the same , and that as the fluid pressure is raised by compression of the head so must the cerebral-venous pressure rise pari passu , since it is not conceivable that the wall of the pial veins could support any part of the fluid pressure .
On drawing off the fluid the pressure sank to atmospheric pressure and the soft wall of the skull lost all its 454 Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , tenseness and sagged in .
So it remained for some hours , until , as the fluid was secreted , the tension gradually returned .
In hydrocephalus we are dealing with an error of metabolism ; the growth of the brain substance and the secretion of the cerebro-spinal fluid are not properly balanced .
The pressure of the fluid and of the blood in the capillaries is the same ; it is the relative secretory and growth properties of the brain and its membranes which are at fault .
In cases of oedema of the legs we have measured the pressure of the fluid after introduction of a needle ( for drainage ) .
The pressure equalled about 50 cm .
of water , and rose on lifting up the leg owipg to the squeezing of the leg .
The leg behaved , in this respect , like a bag of fluid , and the fluid and capillary-venous pressure must have been the same .
Ligation of the venae vorticosae , as shown by Adamuk , produces a very large rise of intraocular pressure up to 90 mm. Hg .
In albinos the local hyperaemia of the iris and the ciliary body can be seen .
In this case , we maintain , the intraocular pressure rises because the capillary-venous pressure is raised almost to arterial pressure owing to the obstruction of the venous outflow .
The fluid contents of the eye transmit this pressure equally in all directions , hence the intraocular pressure rises passu with the venouscapillary pressure .
The rise of intraocular pressure , on the other hand , is ascribed by Parsons " primarily to the dilatation of the vessels , and secondarily to the high capillary pressure inducing increased transudation .
" " The anterior chamber becomes shallow and the filtration of fluid from the eye is thereby at first diminished , so that increased production is accompanied by diminished secretion .
" We find no explanation given as to how all these phenomena happen in an eye bounded by a rigid capsule .
We recall the fact that the dead eye increases by only 7/ 1000 of its bulk when the intraocular pressure is raised from 19 to 70 mm. Hg .
The living eye full of blood would increase much less .
The shallowness of the anterior chamber is clearly due to the expression of aqueous into the substance of the cornea , spaces of Fontana , etc. , under the influence of the high capillary-venous pressure which expands the blood-vessels .
Present day views of glaucoma are dominated by the idea that the aqueous fluid is a filtration product , and that the intraocular pressure is not the capillary-venous pressure but some other pressure controlled by the relation of filtration to absorption .
From our point of view the pathology of the increased tension in acute glaucoma is plain .
It is due to disordered metabolism which results in a greater imbibition force on the part of the disordered tissues and in arterial vaso-dilatation .
Increased imbibition and blood supply in one part of the eye must be compensated for by narrowing of the veins and rise of vascular pressure .
Hence the increased tension of 1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
455 the eyeball .
Just as the tissues surrounding a bee sting , or a boil , swell and become tense , so does the eye become tense in an attack of acute glaucoma .
The conditions are the same as in the salivary gland when the secretion is obstructed .
The tissues confined by a capsule swell and the capillary-venous pressure is raised jpari passu with the pressure of the imbibed or secreted tissue fluid .
Thomson Henderson regards sclerosis of the cribriform ligament as the prime cause of glaucoma .
The pathways of absorption of the aqueous are obstructed .
This , he says , converts the circulatory system of the eye from an elastic to a rjgid system .
" The free contact between aqueous and veins causes the intraocular pressure to be maintained at the normal intravenous level , as this is the lowest circulatory pressure .
In glaucoma the contact is diminished , and the intraocular fluids , being contained in an unyielding capsule , act as a rigid volume which , operating through the tissues , compels the intraocular circulation to run in rigid lines .
Ita .
a rigid system the outflow pressure is always higher than in a similar system of elastic tubes."* We are not in complete agreement with this view , for the living tissues are not fixed mechanical structures .
Moreover , supposing the cribriform ligament is sclerosed , the venous outflow no less remains patent , and for the aqueous there is the pathway of absorption through the iris veins .
Obstruction of the absorption of aqueous per se can have no effect on intraocular pressure so long as the secretory pressure remains unchanged .
Alterations in tissue metabolism undoubtedly are the primary cause .
The obstruction of the natural circulation of the aqueous may possibly contribute to the alteration of tissue metabolism .
However produced , it is increased imbibition which diminishes the venous content and raises intraocular tension .
Thomson Henderson has demonstrated , and we can confirm his demonstration , that " so long as the anterior chamber remains a closed space , the balance of fluid pressure between it and the vitreous chamber is perfect , so that if the vitreous pressure is raised , the aqueous pressure mounts to exactly the same height .
" We admit that fluid injected into the excised eye quickly flows out from the cut ends of the episcleral veins , but ceases to do so when the lens is pushed forward and the filtration angle blocked .
We have pointed out , however , that the conditions in the living eye are entirely different , that the aqueous and venous pressure stand at the same level , and we have no proof that the angle acts as a filtration mechanism in it .
In our opinion surgical operations , e.g. iridectomy , relieve glaucoma by increasing the flow of tissue lymph through the inflamed part , thus * Thomson Henderson , loc. tit .
, p. 135 .
456 Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , promoting the healing process .
The effect is just the same as that obtained on laying open a boil .
The increased tension is not the cause of the trouble ; that lies in the pathological condition which produces the tension .
If the tissues of the eyeball become swollen by imbibition , the volume occupied by the blood in the veins is diminished , and the circulatory pressure and flow of blood is increased .
If the imbibition proceed far enough and the arterial pressure be not increased by the compensatory action of the heart and vasomotor system , the circulation may become strangulated .
Hence the utility of the hot fomentation which softens and of the surgeon 's knife which cuts the confining structures and promotes the flow of blood and the outflow of plasma with its immunising power .
Arthur Thomson* has brought forward anatomical evidence for the view that the ciliary muscle opens the channels in the pectinate ligament .
" They are kinked and compressed when drawn forward , opened and straightened when the scleral process is pulled back , thus imparting to them a valvular action .
" " In this way a negative pressure is established within Schlemm 's canal into which fluids will pass along the line of least resistance .
When the ciliary muscle , meridional and circular fibres , and sphincter of iris , cease to contract , the pectinate ligament by its inherent elasticity pulls the scleral spur forwards and outwards again , thus mechanically effecting the collapse of the inner wall of the canal of Schlemm against its outer wall , and so restoring it to the ordinary influences of the intraocular pressure .
" He supposes that filtration ( outflow ) of aqueous is maintained by this negative pressure and pumping action of the ciliary muscle , and that glaucoma may be caused by impairment of this action , * e.g.by over-prolonged contraction of the hypertrophied circular fibres in the hypermetropic eye .
We conclude that Arthur Thomson accepts the received explanation of glaucoma , viz. , that it is due to obstructed absorption of the aqueous , and defines a mechanism which he believes acts as a valved pump and furthers the exit of the aqueous .
Holding as we do that the inflow of the aqueous is governed by secretion , that is , by the vital action of the cells lining the ciliary processes , and that it is not a filtration fluid dependent on the blood pressure , we do not recognise the need for any such mechanical pump controlling the outflow .
We believe that absorption is no less controlled by the endothelial cells which separate the fluid from the veins .
Both secretion and absorption we maintain are functions dependent on the living energy of the cells .
We agree , however , with Thomson Henderson when he says that " the ciliary muscle by its contraction opens up the channels which allow aqueous to pass * 'The Ophthalmoscope , ' London , July , 1911 .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and .
457 from in front of the lens to the circumental region .
" This , we believe , is the purpose of the structural arrangements examined by Arthur Thomson .
The transference of fluid is essential to the act of accommodation .
In text-book discussions on the mechanism of accommodation , little or no attention is paid to the behaviour of the aqueous at the moment when the anterior surface of the lens changes its shape .
The ciliary muscle is described as fixed at the junction of the cornea and sclerotic and inserted into the choroid ; it is supposed to pull up the choroid so as to relax the tension of the suspensory ligament when the lens by virtue of its elasticity becomes more convex .
From whence , we may ask , does the lens obtain the u virtue of its elasticity " ?
An excised lens has an almost fluid exterior and a much stiffer glue-like core .
The tension of the choroid is due to the intraocular pressure , this depends on the secretory pressure of the aqueous , which in its turn determines the circulatory pressure in the eyeball .
The pressure in the aqueous , in the vitreous , in the lens , and in all the capillary-venous networks within the sclerotic-corneal envelope is one and the same .
While the vitreous is enclosed in the hyaloid membrane , the membranes of Descement , of Bruch , and the basement membrane of the iris and ciliary processes form one continuous membrane , which , we believe , acts like the membranae proprise of the alveoli of the salivary gland\#151 ; a kind of semi-permeable membrane , permitting and confining the secretion of aqueous .
The fluids of the eye distribute the pressure equally in all directions .
The manometric observations of Hess and Heine show that no change of intraocular pressure accompanies the act of accommodation .
No change in the fulness of the retinal vessels has been observed in the eye of man on accommodation .
* On the other hand , Arthur Thomson cites observations made by Ulbrich on a case of partial coloboma of the iris , where the aperture was closed by a delicate membrane which served as a natural and very sensitive manometer .
Although dilatation and contraction of the pupil under the action of light did not alter the position of the membrane , yet during accommodation the membrane sank , the extent to which it receded being roughly proportional to the amount of accommodation .
Under eserine this reaction was intensified whilst atropine , on the contrary , annulled it entirely .
Now , in order that the lens may become convex forwards it is necessary that fluid should be transferred from the anterior chamber in front to the region surrounding the circumference of the lens .
Helmholtz recognised this , and supposed that the angle of the anterior chamber was deepened to make room for the displaced aqueous .
Thomson Henderson controverts this on the evidence derived from the structure of eyeballs which have been properly fixed , and points out that 458 Messrs. L. Hill and M. Flack .
[ May 29 , the cribriform ligament cannot be pulled backwards so as to cause an anatomical deepening of the angle .
The ciliary muscle , however , by its action opens up the supra-choroidal space and the meshes of the cribriform ligament .
" The circular sphincter fibres of the ciliary muscle move inwards on accommodation and , straightening out the innermost fibres of the cribriform ligament , allow the passage of aqueous into the supra-choroidal space .
" Thomson Henderson has traced this passage by injections of Indian ink .
We maintain that the instantaneous transference of aqueous to and from the front and the circumference of the lens is the essential part of the act of accommodation .
Without such transference the sphincter action of the ciliary muscle could not take place : the semi-fluid exterior part of the lens confined in its capsule bulges forwards in proportion as the aqueous fluid is transferred from in front to the circumental region .
This is the function which is subserved by the structure of the ciliary region and the ciliary muscle , and the anatomical arrangements required to be re-examined with this function in view .
By the perfect-balanced action of the intraocular fluids pressure is instantly transmitted , and the fineness and celerity of the movements of accommodation are made possible .
We suggest that certain of the longitudinal fibres and the circular fibres are antagonistic in action , and balance the to-and-fro movements of the fluid .
Thomson Henderson has suggested an antagonism of action , but in relation to the tension of the suspensory ligament .
The anatomical arrangement of the ciliary muscle figured by Henderson would equally well subserve the movement of fluid to and from the circumental region .
The manometric method shows no change of pressure on accommodation because the lens bulges forwards in proportion as the circumental region swells .
The delicate membrane observed by Ulbrich gave evidence of the sudden pull of the muscle and its action on the aqueous fluid .
We opine that the shaking of the lens observed by Hess results from the transference of fluid to the circumental region .
This fluid affords a waterbed on which the lens can shake .
In confirmation of the view which we have put forward we quote the observation made by Beer , that accommodation through stimulation of the ciliary muscle is no longer possible when a hole is cut into the posterior wall of the eye so that the counterbalancing pressure of the vitreous is The sphincter action of the ciliary muscle depends on the counterbalancing influence of the intraocular pressure ; the pressure of the vitreous gives an equable support behind , while the ciliary muscle , by its sphincter action , widens the meshes of the ciliary body and cribriform ligament , and draws aqueous into the circumental region .
1912 .
] Relation between Capillary Pressure and Secretion .
459 Summary .
( 1 ) The intraocular pressure is 35-65 mm. Hg in cats and in dogs under ether .
To the finger , the tension of the human eye seems to be about the same as in these animals .
( 2 ) The tension varies with the arterial pressure ; a residual pressure of some 13-18 mm. Hg remains for a short time after the heart beat has stopped .
( 3 ) The tension is primarily due to the secretory action of the cells which line the ciliary processes ; this secretory pressure regulates the capillary-venous pressure pertaining in the eyeball ; the pressure of the aqueous and the capillary-venous pressure are always one and the same .
Sudden abolition of this equality of pressure by escape of the aqueous causes congestion of the iris and ciliary body , and haemorrhage then results ' from the iris when the blood pressure is raised .
( 4 ) The circulatory conditions in the eye resemble those in the intracranial cavity , with the exception that the intraocular is much higher than the intracranial pressure , and therefore is not affected by changes in the general venous pressure .
( 5 ) When the intraocular pressure is raised by injection of Ringer 's solution into the anterior chamber , the circulation through the eyeball continues until the intraocular pressure just exceeds the arterial pressure .
( 6 ) It is suggested that the increased tension in glaucoma is due to increased imbibition and secretion of fluid , resulting from an altered metabolism of the ocular tissues , leading to compression of the veins and to a rise in the capillary-venous pressure , and therefore intraocular pressure .
The operative relief of glaucoma depends not on the relief of the tension per se , but on the increased transudation of tissue lymph with its immunising properties .
Acute glaucoma resembles an inflammatory condition in any other part of the body , e.g. a boil .
( 7 ) The essential factor in the act of accommodation is the transference of the aqueous from the front of the lens to the circumental region , which allows the forward expansion of the fluid exterior part of the lens .

