II .
" On Hydrofluoric Acid .
" By G. GORE , F.R.S. Received November 14 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) A. Athydrous Hydro , luoric Acid .
This paper contains a full description of the leading physical and che .
mical properties of anhydrous hydrofluoric acid , and also an account of various properties of pure aqueous hydrofluoric acid .
The author obtained the anhydrous acid by heating dry double fluoride of hydrogen and potassium to redness in a suitable platinum apparatus ( shown by a figure accompanying the paper ) , and states the conditions under which it may be obtained in a state of purity .
The composition and purity of the anhydrous acid are shown and carefully verified by various methods of analysis , both of the double fluoride from which it was prepared and of the acid itself ; and particulars are given of all the circumstances necessary to insure reliable and accurate results .
Nearly all the operations of preparing , purifying , analyzing , and examining the properties of the acid were conducted in vessels of platinum , with lutings of paraffin , sulphur , and lampblack ; articles of transparent and colourless fluor-spar were also employed in certain cases .
Nearly all the manipulations with the acid were effected while the vessels containing it were immersed in a strong freezing-mixture of ice and crystallized chloride of calcium .
The pure anhydrous acid is a highly dangerous substance , and requires the most extreme degree of care in its manipulation .
It is a perfectly colourless and transparent liquid at 60 ?
Fahr. , very thin and mobile , extremely volatile , and densely fuming in the air at ordinary temperatures , and absorbs water very greedily from the atmosphere .
It was perfectly retained in platinum bottles , the bottle having a fanged mouth with a platinum plate secured with clamp-screws , and a washer of paraffin .
A number of attempts were made , finally with success , to determine the molecular volume of the pure anhydrous acid in the gaseous state , the acid in these cases being prepared by heating pure anhydrous fluoride of silver with hydrogen in a suitable platinum apparatus over mercury .
Particulars are given of the apparatus employed and of the manipulation .
The results obtained show that one volume of hydrogen , in uniting with fluorine , produces not simply one volume of gaseous product as it does when uniting with oxygen , but two volumes , as in the case of its union with chlorine .
The gaseous acid transferred to glass vessels over mercury did not corrode the glass , or render it dim in the slightest degree during several weeks , provided that noisture was entirely absent .
The author concludes that the anhydrous acid he has obtained is destitute of oxygen , not only from the various analyses and experiments already referred to , but also , 1st , because the double fluoride from which it was prepared , when fused and electrolyzed with platinum electrodes , evolved abundance of inflammable gas at the cathode , but no gas at the anode , although oxides are by electrolysis decomposed before fluorides ; 2nd , because the electrolysis of the acid with platinum electrodes yielded no odour of ozone , whereas the aqueous acid of various degrees of strength evolved that odour strongly ; and , 3rd , because the properties of the acid obtained from hydrogen and fluoride of silver agree with those of the acid obtained from the double salt .
He considers also that the acid obtained from pure fluor-spar and monohydrated sulphuric acid heated together in a platinum retort is free from oxygen and water .
The specific gravity of the anhydrous liquid acid was several times determined , both in a specific-gravity bottle of platinum , and also by means of a platinum float submerged and weighed in the acid .
Concordant and reliable results were obtained ; the specific gravity found was 0'9879 at 55 ?
Fahr. , that of distilled water being1000 at the same temperature .
The anhydrous acid was much more volatile than sulphuric ether .
Its boiling-point was carefully determined in a special apparatus of platinum , and was found to be 67 ?
Fahr. Not the slightest sign of freezing occurred on cooling the acid to -30 ?
Fahr. ( = 34 ?
'5 C. ) ; and it is highly probable that its solidifying temperature is a very great many degrees below this .
Its vapour-tension at 60 ?
Fahr. was also approximately determined , and was found to be =7'58 lbs. per square inch .
On loosening the lid of a bottle of the acid at 60 ?
Fahr. , the acid vapour is expelled in a jet like steam from a boiler ; this , together with the low boiling-point , the extremely dangerous and corrosive nature of the acid , and its great affinity for water , illustrates the very great difficulty of manipulating with it and retaining it in a pure state .
Nevertheless , by the contrivances described , and by placing the bottles in a cool cellar ( never above a temperature of 60 ?
Fahr. ) , the author has succeeded in keeping the liquid acid perfectly , without loss and unaltered , through the whole of the recent hot summer .
The electrical relations of different metals &amp;c. in the acid were found to be as follows at 0 ?
Fahr.:-zinc , tin , lead , cadmium , indium , magnesium , cobalt , aluminium , iron , nickel , bismuth , thallium , copper , iridium , silver , gas-carbon , gold , platinum , palladium .
Numerous experiments were made of electrolyzing the anhydrous acid with anodes of gas-carbon , carbon of lignum-vitm and of many other kinds of wood , of palladium , platinum , and gold .
The gas-carbon disintegrated rapidly ; all the kinds of charcoal flew to pieces quickly ; and the anodes of palladium , platinum , and gold were corroded without evolution of gas .
The acid with a platinum anode conducted electricity much more readily than pure water ; but with one of gold it scarcely conducted at all .
These electrolytic experiments presented extreme difficulties , and were conducted in a platinum apparatus ( shown by a figure ) specially devised for the purpose .
The particulars of the conditions and results obtained are described in the paper .
Various mixtures of the anhydrous acid with monohydrated nitric acid , with sulphuric anhydride , and with monohydrated sulphuric acid were also electrolyzed by means of platinum anodes , the particulars and results of which are also described .
To obtain an idea of the general chemical behaviour of the pure anhydrous acid , numerous substances ( generally anhydrous ) were immersed in separate portions of the acid in platinum cups , kept at a low temperature ( 0 ?
to --200 Fahr. ) .
The acid had scarcely any effect upon any of the metalloids or noble metals ; and even the base metals in a state of fine powder did not cause any evolution of hydrogen .
Sodium and potassium behaved much the same as with water .
Nearly all the salts of the alkali and alkaline-earth metals produced strong chemical action .
Various anhydrides ( specified ) dissolved freely .
Strong aqueous hydrochloric acid produced active effervescence .
The alkalies and alkaline earths united strongly with the acid .
Peroxides gave no effect .
Numerous oxides ( specified ) produced strong chemical action , some of them dissolving .
Some nitrates were not chemically affected ; others ( those of lead , barium , and potassium ) were decomposed .
Fluorides generally were unchanged ; but those of the alkalimetals and of thallium produced different degrees of chemical action , those of ammonium , rubidium , and potassium uniting powerfully .
Numerous chlorides were also unaffected , whilst those of phosphorus ( the solid one only ) , antimony ( the perchloride ) , titanium , and of the alkaline-earth and alkali metals , were decomposed with strong action , and generally with effervescence .
The chlorates of potassium and sodium were also decomposed with evolution of chloric acid ; the bromides of the alkaline-earth and alkali metals behaved like their chlorides .
Bromate of potassium rapidly set free bromine .
Numerous iodides were unaffected ; but those of the alkaline-earth and alkali metals were strongly decomposed , and iodine ( in some cases only ) set free .
The anhydrous acid decomposed all carbonates with effervescence , and those of the ' alkaline-earth and alkali metals with violent action .
Borates of the alkalies also produced very strong action .
Silico-fluorides of the alkali metals dissolved with effervescence .
All sulphides , except those of the alkaline-earth and alkali metals , exhibited no change ; the latter evolved sulphuretted hydrogen violently .
Bisulphite of sodium dissolved with effervescence .
Sulphates were variously affected .
The acid chromates of the alkali metals dissolved with violent action to blood-red liquids , with evolution of vapour of fluoride of chromium .
Cyanide of potassium was violently decomposed , and hydrocyanic acid set free .
Numerous organic bodies ( specified ) were also immersed in the acid ; most of the solid ones were quickiy disintegrated .
The acid mixed with pyroxylic spirit , ether , and alcohol , but not with benzole ; with spirit of turpentine it exploded , and produced a blood-red liquid .
Gutta percha , india-rubber , and nearly all the gums and resins were rapidly disintegrated and generally dissolved to red liquids .
Spermaceti , stearic acid , and myrtle wax were but little affected , and paraffin not at all .
Sponge was also but little changed .
Gun-cotton , silk , paper , cotton-wool , calico , gelatine , and parchment were instantly converted into glutinous substances , and generally dissolved .
The solution of gun-cotton yielded an inflammable film on evaporation to dryness .
Pinewood instantly blackened .
From the various physical and chemical properties of the anhydrous acid , the author concludes that it lies between hydrochloric acid and water , but is much more closely allied to the former than to the latter .
It is more readily liquefied than hydrochloric acid , but less readily than steam ; like hydrochloric acid it decomposes all carbonates ; like water it unites powerfully with sulphuric and phosphoric anhydrides , with great evolution of heat .
The fluorides of the alkali metals unite violently with hydrofluoric acid , as the oxides of those metals unite with water ; the hydrated fluorides of the alkali metals also , like the hydrated fixed alkalies , have a strongly alkaline reaction , and are capable of expelling ammonia from its salts .
It may be further remarked that the atomic number of fluorine lies between that of oxygen and chlorine ; and the atomic number of oxygen , added to that of fluorine , nearly equals that of chlorine .
B. Aqueous Hydrofluoric Acid .
Under the head of the aqueous acid the author enumerates the various impurities usually contained in the commercial acid , and describes the modes he employed to detect and estimate them , and to estimate the amount of HF in it .
The process employed by him for obtaining the aqueous acid in a very high degree of purity from the commercial liquid , is also fully described .
It consists essentially in passing an excess of sulphuretted hydrogen through the acid , then neutralizing the sulphuric and hydrofluosilicic acids present by carbonate of potassium , decanting the liquid after subsidence of the precipitate , removing the excess of sulphuretted hydrogen by carbonate of silver , distilling the filtered liquid in a leaden retort with a condensing-tube of platinum , and , finally , rectifying .
2he effect of cold upon the aqueous acid was briefly examined , the result being that a comparatively small amount of hydrofluoric acid lowers the freezing-point of water very considerably .
The chemico-electric series of metals &amp;c. in acid of 10 per cent. and in that of 30 per cent. were determined .
In the latter case it was as follows:-zinc , magnesium , aluminium , thallium , indium , cadmium , tin , lead , silicon , iron , nickel , cobalt , antimony , bismuth , mercury , silver , copper , arsenic , osinium , ruthenium , gas-carbon , platinum , rhodium , palladium , tellurium , osmi-iridium , gold , iridium .
Magnesium was remarkably unacted upon in the aqueous acid .
The chemico-electric relation of the aqueous acid to other acids with platinum was also determined .
Various experiments of electrolysis of the aqueous acid of various degrees of strength were made with anodes of platinum .
Ozone was evolved , and , with the stronger acid only , the anode was corroded at the same time .
Mixtures of the aqueous acid with nitric , hydrochloric , sulphuric , selenious , and phosphoric acids were also electrolyzed with a platinum anode , and the results are described .

