]\gt ; On Some Continuous Observations of the Rate of of Electric in the Open Air .
By C. COLERIDGE FAR , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Dr. C. Chree , F.RS .
Received February 23 , \mdash ; Read March 9 , 1905 .
) During the latter part of 1902 and the early months of 1903 I resolved to take as many observations of the rates of dissipation of positive and negative electric charges as possible , and to continue them over the whole 24 hours of the day , and , when opportunity offered , over longer periods .
There appeared to be little information regarding the rate of dispersion during the night hours .
At about the same time that these observations were being made , Nilsson*was doing similar work at Upsala , and found a noticeable maximum value for atmospheric conductivity at about midnight .
The observations were made on the Canterbury Plains of New Zealand , at a station about 20 feet above sea-level and about five miles due west from the sea coast .
The apparatus used was Elster and Geitel'sZerstreuungs- apparat , and the formula of reduction used was that given by them , viz.:\mdash ; this formula is proportional to the conductivity of the gas surrounding instrument\mdash ; for positive or negative , as the case may be .
The onstant \ldquo ; ratio of capacity without cylinder capacity with cylinder was determined by me to be , as the instrument was always used , with cover .
The cover was always at one height above the base of the instrument , and was set so as to be as nearly co-axial with the discharging as could be judged by eye .
No attempt was made to determine the actual capacity of the condenser cylinder and protecting cover , which would be a somewhat variable quantity owing\mdash ; ( to the differences on differet ) days in attempting to cause the two to be co-axial ; ( 2 ) to a certain amount of looseness in the fit of the shank of the cylinder *Nilsson , ' Science Abstracts , vol. 6 , itbs .
560 .
Elster and Geitel , ' Terrestrial Mag vol. 4 , p. 213 , et seq. Dissipation of Charges in the Open Air .
on to its hole .
The value above given for " " \ldquo ; is the mean of several determinations made with different settings of the cover and cylinder .
The individual values of\ldquo ; \ldquo ; varied over about In reducing the observations by means of the above formula , as the relation between and the conductivity was in any case , without knowledge of the capacity in absolute measure , one of proportionality merely , ordinary instead of Naperian logarithms were used .
The voltages indicated by a given divergence of the leaves were taken from a table supplied by the makers of the instrument to Kew Observatory .
The time was expressed in minutes .
In the observations , the usual formal procedure of determining the leakage after every experiment was not adopted , as it was desired to obtain as many observations as possible in rapid succession .
Thus the was obtained Illy at fairly quent intervals , and a curve drawn which the ordinates of the curves representing in the arbitrary unit explained above could be corrected .
with the dispersion observations , observations were made of the direction and intensity of the wind ( Beaufort ) , the humidity , and the potential difference between a point about 10 feet above the surface of the ground and the earth .
This was affected by the proximity of the building and was determined by a Kelvin portable electrometer and a waterdropper .
The leaves of the dissipation apparatus were read from a distance by the aid of a telescope , and at night the instrument was illuminated by.a bull's-eye lantern attached to a pole .
The lantern was only lighted during the actual minute or so that a was being taken .
A study of the curves so obtained led to several points of interest .
In the first place it is evident that the conductivity of the air for both positive and ative electricity is very irregular , but the irregularities are such that on an average ative electricity is dispersed more rapidly than positive .
Taking six ordinary days , embracing several hundreds observations , gave the following values for , viz. :\mdash ; March 1 and 2 , 1903 , January 1 and 2 , 1903 , January 15 and 16 , 1903 , an of September 1 and 2 , 1902 , February 1 and 2 , 1903 , December 15 and 16 , 1902 , Though this is so persistently as an , yet on several occasions for Dr. C. Coleridge Far .
On the Rate of [ Feb. 23 , some hours together during these six days , positive icity was dissipated the more rapidly .
Thus this occurred from noon to 5.30 .
on January 1 , and again from 6.30 to 9.30 A.bf .
on the morning of the next day , January 2 .
intervals there was no reversal of the sign of the atmospheric potential as indicated by the electrometer .
On the first of these occasions the average value of for the period was , and on the second Similarly , on January 15 , 1903 , between 12 noon and 3.30 , positive charges were dissipated the more quickly .
During the interval the average value of 9 fell to , and the potential at the terminal of the water-dropper fell from volts at 12.30 .
to volts at 3 , rising again at .
( by which time negative electricity was again being discharged the more quickly ) to volts .
On September 1 , 1902 , also at 5 was for a very short time , whilst the potential of the water-dropper fell from volts at .
to volts at o , rising again to volts at .
From then on till noon next day , when the observations terminated , the potential remained positive , as is usually the case , but at 4.30 .
on September 2 the positive charge again became dissipated more quickly , and continued so ti1110 .
During this interval was .
On February 1 , 1903 , positive electricity was dissipated the more quickly from 3 ] , with no reversal of the sign of the atmospheric potential .
During the interval the average value of was .
Between 6 and 6.30 .
on December 15 , 1902 , ( from a pair of observations only ) became with no reversal of atmospheric potential , whilst next morning , during very heavy rain at 6 for a short time , with a reversal of potential sign at 5 volts , and at 6.30 volts .
Summing up these we find : January 1 , 1903 , no reversal atmospheric charge September 1 , 1902 , February 1 , 1903 . .
December 15 , 1902 January 15 , , reversal atmospheric charge September 1 , 1902 December 16 , 1902 This apparently indicates that a low value for is , as might be expected , accompanied with a reversal of sign of the atmospheric charge .
On the other hand , on March 2 , at 6.30 , the potential became volts with about unity .
Again , considering these six days only as being more typical of ordinary 1905 .
] of Electric Charges in the Open Air .
conditions than two others I shall refer to , we find there is distinct evidence of a deuble maximum and minimum value for the conductivity of the air for charges of both sigus .
Thus on the following dates the maxima and minima are well marked at the following approximate times:\mdash ; March 1 and 2 5 January 1 and 2 , .
12 noon January 15 and 16 12 noon September 1 and 2 2 6P.M .
3A.M .
9A.M .
Of the two other days , viz. , and 2 and December 15 and 16 , the former exhibits no distinct maxima and minima , but a strong south-west gale was blowing during most of the period of observatio1l ; and the latter is incomplete in the night hours owing to faulty insulation of the instrument due to rain .
The four days above were fine .
The observations made on February 1 and 2 during the south-west gale gave a much higher for the ivity of the air for both positive and Yative c than upon the other four complete days .
Thus , in the arbitrary units chosen , the mean conductivity for this day was for positive charge and for negative , whilst average of the other four was for positive and for negative 00375 .
Similarly , on March 1 and 2 , also during a south-west wind of moderate strength , the conductivities were higher than the average , viz. , for positive charges and for negative .
Since the wind on these two days of high mean conductivity was in the same direction , south-west , and also stronger than on the other three , there is only a amount of evidence to indicate that the excessive conductivity is due to the rather than to the direction of the wind .
I am unable to discover in these any connection between the humidity of the air and its electrical condition .
I now come to two days as yet not mentioned , viz. , February 18 , on which observations were specially made from 11 .
to 5 , and March 16 , when observing conditions good from 7 A.IL till .
On the first of these two days a strong gale from the north-west\mdash ; a ' nor'wester : ' as they are generally called here\mdash ; was blowing at the time the observations were begun , whilst on the latter , at 6..30 , the wind was calm .
At 8 .
there was a light south-west wind , and at 9.30 it was blowing strongly from the northwest with a falling barometer .
Ths wind remained north-west during the rest of the day .
These ' nor'westers\ldquo ; are very well known and , Dr. C. Coleridge Far .
On the Rate of [ Feb. 23 , by some people , rather dreaded winds .
over a high range of mountains hing 7000 feet , they deposit their moisture on the western slopes , though the rain often extends to the eastern side of the mountains .
In Christchurch , and for some distance westward of it , these winds are invariably dry and hot .
They are of the nature of " " Foehn\ldquo ; winds , and have a very depressing effect upon most people , I have met some who say they like them .
the days I am are the only two of the class upon which , so far , I have been able to take dissipation observations , yet potential observarions on them indicate that the general character of these winds is that they are negativeJy relatively to the earth , which is contrary to the usual condition .
On both of these days the dissipation curves show marked peculiarities .
The earliest observation , at 11.15 .
on February 18 , gave with a negative potential difference between water-dropper and earth of , volts at 10.20 volts at 11.40 , and volts at 12.45 .
These three values at the times indicated lie on a straight line and appear to show that the potential of the water-dropper was rising approximately uniformly with the time .
Corresponding with this rise of potential there is also a marked rise in the value of , which at 12 noon had risen to and at 2.30 .
was , by which time the\ldquo ; nor'wester\ldquo ; had practically blown itself out , and the potential of the water-dropper was zero .
After this the value of sank again to approximately unity , the ordinary positive atmospheric charge established itself and the wind blew lightly from the south-west .
The curves corresponding to March 16 ( see the figure ) are of a precisely similar character , but here the whole history of the wind is apparent .
At 7.30 .
the wind was light south-west , , potential of water-dropper volts .
At 9.45 , wind north-west , strong , , potential volts .
At 10.30 , wind north-west , strong , , potential volts approximately ( interpolated ) .
From this hour the north-west wind seemed to have thoroughly established itself .
The vaiues of became less and less , the curves indicating the conductivity of the for positive and for negative charges diverging rapidly , that for posibive reaching a high value whilst the negative curve reached remarkably low values .
Thus at about 3 , the point of maximum divergence of these curves , in the arbitrary units chosen for the conductivities , that for positive electricity was , whilst the conductivity for negative electricity was only , giving a value for of .
Corresponding with this extremely low value for the potential reached at very approximately the same time its greatest negative value , viz. , volts .
After this the value of increased , the curves representing the 1905 .
] Dissipation of Electric Charges in the Open Air .
157 Dr. C. Coleridge Far .
On the of [ Feb. 23 , conductivities converging\mdash ; that for positive electricity coming down whilst the negative conductivity increased .
Corresponding with this increase of the negative potential of the water-dropper decreased , until at 4.30 , potential volts , wind still strong from north-west ; but it dropped shortly after this .
It may be possible to account for the peculiar character of these two north-west winds ( and I have so far been unable to obtain further observations , I expect to find it common to the wind ) in this way .
The wind , 1905 .
] Dissipation of Electric Charges in the Open Air .
as stated , blows over a mountain range .
These mountains may rob the air of positive ions owing bo the denser negative charge on the peaks .
* Thus the air may come over the Canterbury Plains with an excess of negative ions , iving it great conductivity for positive and on it its own characteristic negative charge .
In the curves reproduced the lowest line of all represents the actual faint dotted line the variations in conductivity for negative charges , and the faint full line those for positive charges .
These are all in the same arbitrary units explained above .
The heavy full line represents the variations in the potential of the water-dropper referred to an higher up in the paper .
The bloken line represents the relative humidity .
The letters E. , N.E. , etc. , denote the direction of the wind , and the attached numerals its intensity on Beaufort 's scale .
My thanks are due to Mr. H. F. Skey , B.Sc. , for aid in llaking the observations on September 1 , and to .
F. Sandford for help on January 15 , February 1 and 18 , and March 1 and 15 .
For the opinions expressed , and for the observations on December 15 and January 1 , I alone am responsible , as I am also for the accuracy ) the reductions .
* See also Elster and Geitel 's results at Wolfenbuttcl .

