On the Prothalliof Ophioglossum pendulum \amp ; c. 405 lengths .
The prominences visible during totality had comparatively simple spectra , the greatest number of lines recorded being 36 .
The heights above the photosphere to which many of the vapours can be traced in the photographs are tabulated and compared with the results obtained in 1898 ; the two sets of figures are sufficiently accordant , except in the case of the shorter arcs , the value 475 miles derived for the lowest measurable vapours in 1898 being represented in 1900 by two strata , one reaching to 700 miles and the other to 270 miles above the photosphere .
The bright-line spectrum of the corona was decidedly less bright than in 1898 , and a much smaller number of rings is seen in the photographs .
The three brightest rings are at wave-lengths 5303-7 , 423T3 , and 3987-0 , and it may be noted that these were also the brightest in the eclipses of 1893 , 1896 , and 1898 .
The conclusion that the different rings do not originate in the same gas , arrived at from a discussion of the photographs of 1898 , has been confirmed .
A drawing is given to illustrate the fact that while the details of the green coronal ring are seen in the inner corona , they have no apparent relation to the positions of the great streamers or prominences .
For an investigation of this nature the photographs taken with the prismatic camera of 20 feet focal length are specially valuable .
" Preliminary Statement on the Prothalli of Ophioglossum pendulum ( L. ) , Helminthostachys ( Hook ) , and sp. " By William H. Lang , M.B. , D.Sc .
, Lecturer in Botany , Queen Margaret College , University of Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor F. O. Bower , Sc. I ) .
, F.E.S. Eeceived May 20 , \#151 ; Eead May 23 , 1901 .
During a recent visit to Ceylon and the Malay Peninsula* the author found prothalli of Ophioglossum pendulum , and zeylanica , as well as a single specimen , which there is reason to regard as the prothallus of Psilotum .
As the examination of the material will occupy a considerable time , it has seemed advisable to give a brief description of the mode of occurrence and external morphology of the prothallus in these three plants , without entering into details of structure or discussing the phylogenetic bearing of the facts .
The chief gaps in our present knowledge of the gametophytes of the more isolated living Pteridophytaconcern the and Lycopodiacece , to which groups the prothalli described below belong .
The * The expenses of the visit to the Malay Peninsula were defrayed by a grant from the Royal Society .
Mr. W. H. Lang .
On of prothallus of Ophioglossum pedunculosum*was described by Mettenius in 1856 .
It was subterranean , consisting of a small tuber , from which an erect cylindrical body proceeded .
On the latter , which in some instances was observed to reach the surface and turn green , the sexual organs were borne .
The first divisions in the germinating spore of 0 .
pendulumt are described and figured by Campbell .
The prothalli of two species of Botrychiumare known , both of which are subterranean .
That of B. virginianum| is thick and flattened , and in its structure and in the localisation of the sexual organs on the upper surface clearly dorsiventral .
The prothalli of B. Lunar ia , % however , have sexual organs on all sides .
In the Lycopodiacecethe prothallus is well known in the heterosporous forms and in LThe sexual generation is entirely unknown in the Psilotacece and in Phylloglossum .
If the author is correct in attributing the prothallus to be described below to Psilotum , the only two isolated genera of existing Vascular Cryptogams in which the gametophyte is entirely unknown are and Phylloglossum , Tig .
1 .
Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 1 .
Ophioglossum pendulum , old protliallus from above .
( x 7 .
) Fig. 2 .
Helminthostachys zeylanica , prothallus , bearing antlieridia , from the ' Fig. 3 .
Psilotum , sp. , prothallus from the side and slightly from above .
( x 7 .
) Ophioglossum pendulum .
The sporophyte of this plant was , for the most part , found growing on the humus collected by such epiphytic ferns as folium and Asplenium nidus .
A large mass of the former , with the Ophioglossum growing upon it , was collected in the Barrawa Forest * ' Filices Horti Bot. Lipsiensis , ' Leipzig , 1856 , p. 119 .
f ' Mosses and Ferns , ' London , 1895 , p. 224 .
X Jeffrey , ' Trans. Canadian Institute , ' 1896-7 , p. 265 .
S Hofmeister , ' Higher Cryptogamia , ' London , 1862 , p. 307 .
Ophioglossum pendulum ( A. ) , \amp ; c. Reserve , * near to Hanwella , in Ceylon .
On the humus contained in this being carefully examined prothalli of various ages were found .
They were distributed throughout the humus , the majority being found near the bottom of this , often embedded among the ramenta which clothe the rhizome .
The very young prothalli are button-shaped , the slightly conical lower part expanding above .
The basal region is brownish , the surface of the upper portion a uniform dull white .
The latter tint is due to the close covering of paraphyses , which , at this age , extends uninterruptedly from just above the base over the whole surface of the prothallus .
The youngest prothalli are thus clearly radially symmetrical .
In slightly older prothalli , seen from above , the circular outline is lost , owing to the more active growth of two or three points on the margin .
This continues , and there thus arise a corresponding number of cylindrical branches , the prothallus becoming irregularly star-shaped .
At first the branches spread out in a horizontal plane , though with a slight upward tendency .
But when the branches themselves subdivide all suggestion of this secondary dorsiventrality is lost , and the larger prothalli consist of branches radiating in all directions into the humus ( fig. 1 ) .
From a short distance behind the smooth , bluntly conical apex the surface of the branch is covered with short , wide , unicellular paraphyses analogous to those known in prothalli of Lycopodium These are only absent above the sexual organs .
The prothalli are monoecious , antheridia and archegonia being found close together on the same branch .
The surface projects very slightly above the large sunken antheridium ; the neck of the archegonium , which , as seen from above , is composed of four rows of cells , hardly projects from the prothallus .
The sexual organs thus resemble those of 0 .
pedunculosum , as described by Mettenius .
Rhizoids have not been seen on any of the numerous prothalli examined .
An endophytic fungus occupies a middle zone of tissue in all the branches , the superficial layers and a central core of cells being free from it .
Helminthostachyszeylanica .
The prothalli of this plant were also found in the Barrawa Forest Reserve , a low-lying jungle subject to frequent floods .
Young plants still attached to the prothallus were fairly abundant in certain spots , and , by searching in the rotting leaf mould around , prothalli of various ages were obtained .
The prothalli were found at a depth of about 2 inches .
* lam indebted to my friend Mr. F. Lewis , who guided me to this locality , for the assistance he afforded me in my search for the prothallus of Ophioglossum and Helminthostachys .
408 Mr. W. H. Lang .
On the Prothalli of The youngest prothallus obtained was a short cylindrical body a little over one-sixteenth of an inch in length .
The lower end was darker in tint and bore a number of short rhizoids , while above this , where the antheridia were situated , the surface was of a lighter colour .
The apex itself was bluntly conical and almost white .
In slightly larger prothalli the contrast between these two regions was more strongly marked .
The lower , vegetative region increases in size and becomes lobed , while the antheridia are confined to the cylindrical upper portion , which continues to increase in length .
This latter region appears to be longer and the lobed basal part relatively less developed in prothalli which bear the antheridia ( fig. 2 ) .
Seven of the young prothalli found were male ; the other two bore archegonia only .
These female prothalli were stouter and more lobed than the male ones , and the diameter of the short apical region , on the surface of which the archegonia were situated , was almost the same as that of the vegetative region .
There thus appears to be a. partial sexual differentiation in the prothalli of Helminthostachys , but both antheridia and archegonia may occur on the same prothallus , as some of the latter attached to young plants have shown .
The antheridia are large and often closely crowded together .
They hardly project from the surface , the wall being only slightly convex .
The archegonial neck , which is formed of four rows of cells , projects distinctly from the prothallus .
The distinction made above between a vegetative and a reproductive region in this prothallus is supported by the distribution of the endophytic fungus .
This is entirely absent from the reproductive region , but in the basal part occupies a wide zone between the two or three superficial layers of cells and the central tissue , which are free from the fungus .
The young plants attain a considerable size while still attached to the prothallus .
Plants with three leaves and as many roots have been seen , the prothallus of which showed no sign of decay .
The first leaf is ternate and has a leaf-stalk of variable length .
The lamina is green and reaches the light .
A single root corresponds to each of the early leaves .
Examination of the prothalli connected with young plants indicates the position they occupied in the soil .
Most commonly the long axis of the prothallus was vertical ; sometimes , however , it was oblique , and occasionally horizontal .
Psilotum , sp. The prothallus of this plant was looked for without success in Ceylon , both in the mountain region and on the roots at the base of Cocos palms near the coast .
In the localities visited on the west coast of the Malay Peninsula Psilotum was not abundant .
On Maxwell s Ophioglossum pendulum ( \#163 ; .
) , Hill , in Perak , I found it scantily on stems of tree-ferns , the rhizome growing among the roots of the fern , which cover the stem .
No young plants were found ; but a single prothallus , embedded among the roots of the fern in close proximity to a plant of was obtained .
This prothallus , as will be evident from fig. 3 and the description below , could only belong to , or be that of some species of Lycopodium , the gametophyte of which has not been described .
From the position in which it was found , the former supposition is the more probable one , but such evidence of association is of course not conclusive , and the specimen can only he described as the prothallus of Psilotum with the reservation expressed above .
The prothallus when fresh measured about one-quarter of an inch in length by about three-sixteenths of an inch at the widest part , which , as fig. 3 shows , is above .
The lower portion is cylindrical and rounded below .
To one side near the lower end is a well-marked conical projection directed obliquely downwards , which clearly corresponds to the primary tubercle of the prothallus of Lycopodium The surface of the lower three-fourths of the prothallus was brown and bore rhizoids .
The latter were absent from the upper part , which widens out suddenly , the increase in width being due to the projection of the thick , coarsely lobed margin of the summit of the prothallus .
The central region of the summit is smooth and somewhat depressed .
The upper portion of the prothallus had a faint green tint when fresh , but no chlorophyll grains could be detected .
In the tissue of the overhanging margin the numerous sunken antheridia occur , closely crowded together .
Archegonia have not been observed on external examination .
In its form this prothallus evidently presents resemblances to pro-thalli of Lycopodium .
In the lower part it resembles the prothalli of the Lycopodium cernuum type , while the appearance of the upper portion suggests a comparison with prothalli of L. or L. annctinum .
There seems no reason to doubt that the meristem will be found at the junction of the upper and lower regions .
Probably this prothallus was completely embedded among the roots of the fern .
As some of the roots had been removed before the prothallus was noticed , this point was not definitely settled ; but the general appearance of the upper portion , and the absence of assimilating lobes , makes it probable that the upper surface was not exposed to the light .
That the facts stated above bear on the relationship of the plants to which these prothalli belong will be obvious from the brief description given .
The discussion of this will , however , be best deferred until the full account , which is in course of preparation , is completed .
VOL. LXVIir .

