]\gt ; The Energy of Rontgen Rays .
* By .
T. BEATTY , 1f.A .
, D.Sc .
, Emmanuel College , Clerk Maxwell Student of the University , ( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.RS .
Received June 10 , \mdash ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) In this paper an account will be given of experiments which have been made to determine the amount of energy which reappears as Rontgen radiation when homogeneous cathode rays of given speed fall upon anticathodes of different materials .
The method of attack is modified from that used in a previous research on " " The Direct Production of Bontgen Badiations by Cathode Particles.\ldquo ; Fig. 1 is taken from that paper , and shows how cathode rays of given speed , which have been isolated by means of magnetic deflection , strike an anticathode situated in the tube A. The Bontgen rays so produced pass into an ionisation vessel , and the ionisation due to them is measured by an electroscope C. omogeneous FIG. 1 .
Now , in order to absorb the Rontgen rays completely , and so measure their total energy of ionisation , a long zinc cylinder was made , 150 cm .
long and 10 cm .
in diameter .
A calculation of the absorption coefficients of various substances for Rontgen rays showed that , if this cylinder were filled with air which had been saturated with the vapour of methyl iodide at room temperature , then total absorption of the ontgen rays should take place if The expenses of this research have been partly covered by a Government Grant from .
the Royal Society .
Beatty , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 87 .
pp. 511-518 .
The Energy of Rontgen Rays .
the rays were generated by cathode rays whose velocity did .
not exceed cm .
per second .
In the next place , it was desirable that the thin window through which the Rontgen ) escape from the vacuum chamber into the ionisation chamber should be so thin that the absorption of the ontgen rays by it could be neglected .
This is an essential point , because even homogeneous cathode rays , on an anticathode , become heterogeneous as they penetl.ate into the anticathode , and so give rise to heterogeneous ontgen rays .
We know the absorption coefficients of most of the common elements for homogeneous Bontgen rays , but evidently cannot apply these values to the heterogeneous ntgen rays now under discussion .
To produce the thin window , a lead plate 1 mm. thick was pierced with a number of fine holes , each about 1/ 30 mm. diameter , the holes all lying within a circle of mm. diameter .
This was accomplished by placing the lead plate on a plate of glass and making the holes with a very fine needle ; the lead plate was then covered with aluminium leaf mm. thick , which was stuck on with shellac , and in this a window was produced , which would stand a difference of pressure of an atmosphere on the two sides , and whose maximum absorption of the rays which were used did not exceed 1 per cent. In fig. 2 the ionisation chamber is shown placed in position .
A cone of rays has been represented as starting from the illuminated portion of the anticathode , passing through the window , and diverging the chamber .
viously , the actual cone of -rays must lie inside one if the rays are to be totally absorbed without the curved surface of the cylinder .
The axis of the beam of rays was found by a photographic method , and the cylinder correspondingly aligned .
The cylinder was then waxed on to the end of the vacuum tube , as shown in fig. 2 , and air saturated with the vapour of methyl iodide was drawn into it .
Dr. R. T. Beatty .
From fig. 3 it will be seen that , on plotting the ionisation caused by the rays against the sixth power of the velocity of the cathode rays , straight lines are obtained , until the velocity of the cathode rays exceeds cm .
per second .
The abruptness of the change led me to suspect that the rays were not totally absorbed when this velocity was exceeded .
To test this , the zinc cylinder was replaced by one of brass , which was strong enough to be exhausted .
Methyl iodide was admitted at almost saturation pressure .
The curves ( fig. 4 ) now become straight lines within the limits of velocities used , showing that , as suspected , total absorption had not been obtained with the .
A number of experimental errors have , however , still to be discussed , and it will be shown that the real relation is quite different from that shown in fig. 4 .
These preliminary results having been obtained , a more detailed investigation was now made of possible experimental errors .
Elimination of Errors .
In the first place , the method of averaging a galvanometer deflection over the space of a minute is unsatisfactory with such a fluctuating current as is Tloe Energy of Rontgen Rays .
given by a discharge tube .
Frequently , out of ten attempts to take a reading , only one is obtained with a sufficiently steady reading of the galvanometer .
FIG. 4 .
This unsteadiness of the tube is , indeed , the greatest difficulty met with in work of this kind .
In a previous paper on " " The Direct Production of Characteristic Rontgen Radiations\ldquo ; .
cit a balancing method was used , in which the depended only on the ratio of two resistances and , the electroscope being used as a null instrument .
One of these resistances was composed of a mixture of copper sulphate and glycerine , the other of xylol and absolute alcohol .
It was determined to use a similar method in the present experiment , but to employ metallic resistances .
318 Dr. R. T. Beatty .
These resistances will be but briefly described here , as a complete description of them will form the subject of a separate paper .
They were made by depositing films of platinum vacuo upon quartz rods until the required conductivity was obtained .
The necessary metallic connections were sealed in the evacuated glass tube and soldered to the ends of the quartz rod .
The behaviour of these films is a function of their thickness .
They are quite unstable when the esistance lies between and ohms ; for smaller resistances they become more constant , while for resistances greater than ohms they acquire perfect stability in a few weeks ; in the resistances of this order which were finally selected for use Ohm 's Law was found to be obeyed .
A platinum resistance of this kind was now used for , its resistance was ohms ; a laboratory was used for P. In the preliminary experiments , approximate saturation of the ionisation current had been obtained with a central rod electrode when the cylinder was kept at a potential of 400 .
To obtain complete saturation more drastic methods were now found necessary .
A rectangular framework of copper gauze , 6 cm .
cm .
in cross-section and 1 metre in length , was used as electrode , and inside this a gauze strip 3 cm .
broad was tightly stretched , so that when the outer brass cylinder and the gauze strip were kept at 400 volts the potential gradient never fell below 260 Yolts centimetre anywhere in the region where ionisation took place .
Fig. 5 shows the saturation curve so obtained with different pressures of methyl iodide .
There was still a possibility that since the tube ( fig. 2 ) was at a potential of 400 volts , it might act as anode to the vacuum tube when the discharge was running , and so give a wrong value to the cathode ray current .
FIG. 5 .
The Energy of Rontgen Rays .
The tube had been lined inside with shellac to obyiate such an occulTence it was thought that discharge might t , ake place from the aluminium window , 1 mm. diameter , which , of course , could not be covered with shellac .
An earthed electrode was placed at , so as to prevent such discharge reaching the of the tube A. Then the discharge tube was started , using cathode rays of given speed , and the io.nisation in the long cylinder due to the Rontgen rays was measured for different voltages applied to the cylinder .
The cylinder in this experiment contained air at a pressure of 10 cm .
, so that saturation could be obtained at much lower voltages than 400 volts .
Hence any deviation from the usual form of saturation curve was to be attributed to a subsidiary in the vacuum tube , due to the air insulation breaking down under the voltage applied to the tube D. Table I shows the values of the resistance necessary to balance the electroscope when cathode rays of speed from to cm . .
were used .
would , in the ordinary way , be proportional to the ionisation in the cylinder per unit cathode ray current , and , if saturation were obtained , would be constant , in spite of the voltage applied to the oIJg cylinder .
Now , from fig. 5 we see that saturation actually is attained under these conditions .
Hence any change in as the voltage is altered would indicate a disturbed value for the cathode ray current , due to a subsidiary discharge which might be expected to increase with the applied .
From Table I we must conclude that no abnormal effect comes in till the pressure in the vacuum tube is such that cathode rays of speed cm . .
are produced .
Table I. Let us now review the progress that has been made in eliminating experimental errors .
We have placed the ; cylinder properly in alignment , and have shown that the Bontgen rays cannot strike the curved surface of this cylinder and that they are totally absorbed by the inside .
We Dr. R. T. Beatty .
have obtained complete saturation of the ionisation current , and we have shown that no subsidiary or false discharge occurs till the speed of the cathode rays rises to 9 cm .
The method of balancing the electroscope readings requires that the platinum resistance should keep constant and obey Ohm 's law .
Only a brief mention of its behaviour has been made in this paper , but in a later contribution it will be shown that these conditions were fulfilled in the resistances which were selected for use .
Effect of Reflected Cathode Rays .
But there is an additional possibility of error which at first sight appeared formidable .
When cathode rays strike an anticathode some of them are turned back and do not complete their path in the anticathode .
Now if a considerable amount of the energy ( not necessarily the number ) of the cathode rays is diverted in this way a correction must be made in our results .
But the whole subject of scattering of cathode rays of speeds from to .
has never been studied quantitatively .
Measurements have only been made for where in some cases 70 per cent. of the incident beam has been found to be reflected , and for cathode rays of speeds of 1000 volts or less , where no reflected rays of speed greater than 25 volts have been found .
One might , as Sir J. J. Thomson suggested to me , make the anticathode of metal leaf in the form of a Faraday cylinder so as to catch all the cathode rays .
Such a cylinder , however , would have subtended so large an angle at the window that the emergent cone of rays would have struck the wall of the ionisation cylinder before completely absorbed by the gas inside .
Evidently the Faraday cylinder must be made extremely small .
Now a surface of soot or platinum black may be considered as an aggregate of imperfectly formed Faraday cylinders and it be expected that less reflection would be obtained from such surfaces than from the polished material .
To test this point the ionisation cylinder and the window were removed and a brass tube furnished with two diaphragms and a Faraday cylinder was substituted ( fig. 6 ) .
The number of reflected cathode rays entering this cylinder was determined as a fraction of the number of primary rays incident on the * Kovarik , ' Phil. Mag Nov. 1910 , vol. 30 , pp. 849-866 .
Lenard , ' Ann. ' 1904 , vol. 15 , p. 485 ; Von Baeyer , ' Verh .
D. P. Ges 1908 , vol. 10 , pp. 96 , 953 ; Gehrts , ' Ann. .
Phys Dec. 21 , 1911 , vol. 15 , p. 995 .
term " " cathode ray of speed of volts\ldquo ; means an electron whose speed is that which would be acquired by falling through a potential difference of volts .
The Energ.of Rontgen Rays .
anticathode .
Then knowing the solid angle of the cone of reflected rays entering the Faraday cylinder we can calculate the percentage of rays reflected in all directions .
A small bar magnet was then brought close to the Faraday cylinder so that only the faster reflected rays could reach this cylinder .
FIG. 6 .
The results are shown in Table II .
Column 4 contains the numbers in Column 3 expressed as percentages of those in Column 2 .
II .
It thus appears that soot only reflects about two fifths of the fast rays compared with graphite , while from platinum black the fast rays are only 30 per cent. of those from polished platinum .
Hence these porous materials when used as anticathodes should give a closer approximation to the form of the curve for the energy of the -rays than should graphite or polishefl platinum .
The ionisation cylinder was next put in position and filled with methyl iodide vapour .
For different speeds of cathode rays the ionisation due to the Rontgen rays was determined for four anticathodes .
On comparing the curves it was found that the results for platinum and platinum black were identical , as also those for graphite and soot .
This remarkable result shows at once that the reflected cathode rays must carry only a few per cent. of the energy of the incident cathode rays , as otherwise the energies of the emitted Bont.-en rays would not be identical for the anticathodes when polished and when finely subdivided .
Dr. R. T. Beatty .
As no further source of experimental error now appeared probable the final step was taken of comparing the ionisation energy of the rays from an anticathode with the energy of the cathode rays incident upon that anticathode .
The Final Experiments .
Results have been obtained with anticathodes of rhodium , silver , and aluminium , and preliminary curves have been obtained for copper .
As the numerical results have been calculated from the curve obtained for rhodium a few remarks may be made about the behaviour of this anticathode .
It is not easily oxidised , so that one may be sure that the cathode rays are not absorbed in a film of oxide .
Again we can obtain two characteristic radiations from rhodium .
One is to be expected when the speed of the cathode rays exceeds , but it is very easily absorbed and carries but little .
The other is known to occur when the speed of the cathode rays exceeds .
This speed was not reached in the experinnents and so the second characteristic radiation did not appear .
In fig. 7 are given the relative ionisations due to the rays per unit cathode ray when cathode rays of different speeds are used .
Ths curves for silver and aluminium are the mean of four sets of ; for rhodium eight sets were taken , while the curve for copper is merely a preliminary result .
It will be seen that when characteristic radiations are not excited the energy of the Rontgen rays is proportional to the fourth power of the velocity of the parent cathode rays .
With copper the same result holds good till the rays exceed a speed of .
, then the line bends owing to the presence of the characteristic radiation .
We now proceed to calculate the absolute values .
From fig. 7 we see that when .
the balancing resistance must be 82,400 ohms for a rhodium anticathode .
Now the resistance was ohms .
Hence Ionisation current due to -ray pencil Cathode ray current The diameter of the thin window cm .
Distance of window from anticathode Therefore Solid angle -ray pencil Hence if we assume that the -rays are emitted uniformly in all directions , The Energ.of ntgen Rays .
FIG. 7 .
324 Dr. R. T. Beatty .
where fraction of speed of light .
Since the numbers for silver and aluminium are roughly as the atomic weights , and as Kaye*has found the same result to hold for a very large number of elements , we may take for a working rule where total ionisation current due to -rays per unit of cathode ray current , atomic weight of radiator .
This will only hold in cases where characteristic radiations are not being excited .
Energy of the -rays .
The next step is to find how much energy the -rays possess relatively to the energy of the primary cathode rays .
Let X be defined as above and let mean the number of pairs of ions which would be produced by the primary cathode rays .
It is , therefore , also the ratio of the ionisation current due to the cathode rays per unit of cathode ray current .
Then we shall take the fraction as that fraction of the energy of the cathode rays which reappears as -rays .
Is this assumptionjustifiable ?
If the X-rays were first transformed into cathode rays , as the case when air is ionised according to Wilson 's experiments , and if no loss of energy accompanied such a transformation , then the relative ionisations would really be a measure of the relative energies .
The author , however , has that in the ionisation of the vapours and gases , Ni , direct ionisation is produced in addition to the indirect ionisation through the intermediate production of cathode rays .
Possibly this direct effect only happens when the ionised gas has its characteristic radiation excited .
If direct ionisation is also produced in then relative ionisations are not necessarily a measure of relative energies .
Nevertheless , a consideration of other results leads to the conclusion that the proportionality holds even in such cases .
Thus KleemanS has found that direct ionisation takes place with -rays , and yet the relative number of ions produced by , and * Kaye , ' Phil. Trans , vol. 209 , pp. 123-151 .
Wilson , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 87 .
Bearty , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 .
S Kleeman , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 .
The Energy of Rays .
-rays keeps remarkably constant as we pass from one gas to another .
* has found a similar proportionality for cathode rays and -rays in the case of and .
Hence we may assume the same proportionality in the present experiment .
No data exist as to the total number of ions produced in by cathode rays .
We can , however , calculate the number in air , and for the present we shall assume that the same number would be produced in has found that the number of ions of one sign produced per centimetre in air by homogeneous cathode rays varies inversely as the energy of the rays , or .
( 1 ) When mass of electron , he found for air at N.T.P. Thus works out as has found that the rate of loss of energy of cathode particles in passing through air is given by ( 2 ) Hence the total number of pairs of ions equals .
( 3 ) Therefore , between ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , and in the value of if equals velocity of cathode rays expressed as a fraction of the velocity of light .
Hence .
( 4 ) For example , if a platinum radiator be excited by cathode rays of speed cm .
, therefore is the energy of the ' independent -rays ; the characteristic -rays , * Kleeman , ' Phil. Mag Nov. , 1907 , p. 631 .
Barkla , 'Phil .
Mag Feb. 1912 , [ 6 ] , vol. 23 , pp. 317-333 .
Glasson , ' Phil. Mag Oct. , 1911 , vol. 22 , pp. S Whiddington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 86 .
Beatty , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1912 , , vol. 87 .
The Energy of Rays .
which will be excited in this example , will increase the total energy emitted .
Previous Investigations .
Wien , 1905 , ated the question of the energy carried by X-rays .
He used an X-ray tube with a platinum anticathode , and employed a constant potential diflerence between cathode and anode of 58,700 volts .
He measured the energy of the -rays both a bolometer and thermopile .
The bolometer method ; the thermopile gave On the values which would be given by equation ( 4 ) : we have .
Therefore .
( 5 ) But the cathode rays in Wien 's experiment were heterogeneous , so that the energy of the bundle must have corresponded to a smaller potential than 58,700 volts .
The author has found that with such high potentials the main stream of cathode rays has a speed corresponding to about two-thirds of the potential as given by the spark gap .
When the cathode rays are deflected to give a manetic spectrum the band of luminosity on the willemite screen is discontinuous , the discontinuities corresponding to the oscillations in the at each break of the primary current in the coil .
Five or six such oscillations can usually be recognised by the cathode spectrum , the velocity of the rays decreasing with each successive oscillation .
From a study of the heterogeneous cathode rays , when analysed in this way , the author concludes that the number in formula ( 5 ) should be divided by six to correspond with the conditions of Wien 's experiment .
Then This is still higher than Wien 's results , but allowance for absorption of the soft rays due to the glass may bring the two values close together .
Evidently , one cannot correct for the absorption of these soft rays by finding the absorption due to a second piece of glass .
Whiddington found that the energy of the -rays from a silver anticathode varied nearly as the fourth power of the speed of the cathode rays .
He describes the experiment as follows:\mdash ; " " The first experiment was to see how the actual primary -ray ent , rgy ( Ep ) escaping through depended on the velocity of the cathode rays striking the anticathode .
To do this , the radiator was replaced by * Wien , ' Ann. .
Phys 1905 , 18 , vol. 5 , pp. 991-1007 .
Whiddington , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1911 , , vol. 85 , p. 328 .
stal Iolecular C the iouisation chamber I. After correcting the observed values of the ionisation currents for the variations of the absorption coefficients of the Rontgen rays with , it comes out that ( per unit cathode ray current ) is nearly proportional to In a subsequent paper , a discussion will be given of the results here described with regard to their .
upon theories of the method of transference of from the cathode ray to the -ray .
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the kindly attitude hich Sir J. J. Thonlson has continued to assume towards this work .
The the mmetry of the Simpler Organic Componnds and their Iolecu tstitution.\mdash ; Part II .
By WALTER , Ph. D. ( Communicated by Sir James Dewar , F.R.S. Received June 19 , \mdash ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) In this paper the experimental results concerning the crystalline properties of the unsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbons , the simpler oxygen-and sulphurcompounds of carbon , the halogen-compounds , and the simpler aromatic given .
Bthylene.\mdash ; Ethylene , prepared from alcohol and sulphuric acid , was purified by liquefying it and distilling it twice .
It crystallises very well , prisms being formed .
Two distinct systems occur , one parallel to a prism and the other parallel to the basal plane ( or an orthodome ) .
The.doublerefraction is of middle strength ; the extinction is in some sections parallel to the prismatic cleavage , in others it is not .
The of the optical axes is large , and the optical character negative .
These optical observations show that ethylene crystallises in the monoclinic crystal system .
Acetylene.\mdash ; Acetylene which been from lcium carbide WfiS purified by passing it through a solution of chromic acid in acetic acid , and by subsequently it by cooling with liquid air .
The temperature of the solid mass was then to rise until it began to evaporate , and the first and last portions to evaporate pumped away , the middle portion only collected .
These operations -ere repeated twice .

