V. A short Account of the Anomalous Epidemic Small-Pox , beginning at Plymouth in August 1724 , and continuing to the Month of June 1725 .
By the Learned and Ingenious Dr. Huxham , Physician at Plymouth .
THE Small-Pox were preceded by the usual Symptoms of that Distemper ; but the Pains of the Limbs , and Back , were generally more severe than common , as were likewise the Nausea and Vomiting .
Abundance were seized with violent Colic Pains , which would leave them upon the Eruption , or after a Clyster or two , with a gentle Anodyne : The Stools were commonly bilious .
It sometimes happened , that the Symptoms would not seem very severe before , and at the Eruption , and yet the Pox would prove very confluent and fatal at the State .
The Pustules were very small , and did not regularly fill ; but , in a Day or two after the Eruption , would flat and be depressed in the Middle .
I observed this even in the distinct Kind .
In some Persons they appeared in less than 24 Hours from the Seizure : When they broke out so very soon , they were always of the Flux Kind , as is commonly observed .
The Eruption was attended with prodigious Sneezing , especially in Children .
I saw one * Child about five Years old , that sneezed incessantly for more than 30 Hours , nor could it be allayed , but by Anodynes .
This Child had the Confluent Pox , and died the 13th Day .
In some , at , and after the Appearance of the * Mr. Cockey 's Child .
Pustules , they would itch most intolerably : This happened also to the Child now mentioned , and was generally a bad Symptom ; as it was an Argument of the great Acrimony of the morbific Matter .
In some few , a Day or two after the Eruption seemed to be completed there would appear in the Interstices of the Pox several miliary Pustules , some of a dark Red , others filled with a limpid Serum : These never came to Suppuration , as the secondary Crop of Small-Pox , which I have now and then observed , sometimes do ; nor were they as large .
Tho ' this is an ill Symptom in general , yet , in a* Girl of seven Years old , I perceived her Fever and Delirium go totally off upon this Eruption , and the Urine immediately settled .
Some had abundance of Purple Petechiae appear among the Pox at the Eruption , and the Pustules would look of a Iurid Hue : In others , the Purples would not discover themselves , till the Maturation .
I knew but ~ one Person that had these Spots , during this Constitution , that survived the Distemper ; but some died the 5th or 6th Day , some dwindled on till the 10th or 11th .
During the Suppuration , the Pox would become very sessile , and the coherent Kind would enlarge their Bases exceedingly ; so that , though they seemed for some Time after the Eruption to be very distinct , they would now flux together .
A Purple Speck would often appear in the Center of the Pustules , which would spread and grow blacker and blacker by degrees .
The Interstices would also sometimes turn pale , sometimes livid .
Symptoms of very ill Omen !
The Pustules , that had not the Purple Speck , did not incrust * Miss Spurrel , ~ Mr. Lang 's Son .
incrust yellow , but appeared of a dead , ash Colour , and by degrees grew into a dark black Crust .
The Salivation , which constantly ought to accompany the Maturation in the Confluent Small-Pox , was in several very inconsiderable , in some none at all , saving a very small Quantity ~of extremely viscid Matter , which was got off by syringing .
I had two adult Persons , and some Children , labouring under the confluent Sort , who neither salivated , nor purged , except when some lenient Catharticks were given them ; and yet they got over the Distemper .
Indeed , it was very rare , that we should find Children have that gentle Diarrhea which Sydenham , and others justly reckon , supplies the Salivation in Persons of more advanced Age .
Some very young Children , on the contrary , drivell 'd exceedingly through the Course of the Distemper .
In * two Children , one of five , the other of seven Years old , no Salivation came on till after the 13th Day , and then it was so profuse , and continued so long , that it was with Difficulty I put a Stop to it by Purges first , and then by the Bark , Astringents , &amp;c. To the younger of these , indeed , I had given Calomel , Gr .
iv , but it was soon purged off .
Where the Swelling of the Face and Throat was very hard , painful , and tense , with a strong Vibration of the carotid Arteries , and little or no Salivation , the Patients generally grew delirous at the State .
These Symptoms frequently proved fatal .
The maxillary and parotid Glands , of those that recovered , would remain swoln and indurated for a considerable Time after the entire Desquammation of the Pox , ( though that was very slow ) nor would these Tumors go off , but after repeated Purging , and that with Calomel , &amp;c. 3 Those * Mr. Wallis 's little Boy , Mr. Collier 's Daughter .
Those Tumors were undoubtedly the Consequence of a very viscid Matter obstructing those Glands , which hardened the Swelling of the Face , hindered the Salivation , and in some Measure , the Circulation through the external Carotids ; by which Means , more Blood being forced through the Internal , an Inflammation of the Brain , and a Delirium might be partly brought on ; and this happening too , when the Blood was fraught with acrimonious Matter absorbed from the Pustules , rendered the Delirium , at that Stadium of the Disease , vastly more to be dreaded than in the A pparatus , when it happened almost of course .
Under these Circumstances , Bleeding , emollient Clysters , Eccoproticks , plentiful Dilution , were absolutely necessary .
On this Occasion it may be asked , whether or no , the Salivation being very viscid and defective , the Tumor of the Face hard and tense , some Mercurial ( as a duly prepared Calomel ) might not be given with Advantage , even in the State of Maturation ?
( I have frequently given Cinnabar to good Purpose ) .
There are some Instances that would seem to justify such a Practice ; and I know but one material Objection to it , and that is , that the Weight of the Mercury would , by increasing the Moment of Motion of the Blood , augment the Fever ; but surely we have given Calomel after the Incrustation , when the secondary Fever hath subsisted without any Manner of ill Consequence , I might say , with great Success .
Nothing so certainly fuseth viscous , tough Humors , being joined with plentiful diluting Liquors , as this , and so prepares them to be discharged by proper Outlets .
As to Oxymel Scillit .
Syringing , and the like , in a defective Salivation ; the former , indeed , by Puking , sometimes irritates the Glands of the Mem3 brana brana Schneideriana to discharge their Contents ; Syringing barely deterges the Mouths of the Ductus Salivares : Either have little certain Effect further ; whereas the viscous obstructing Matter is lodged in the inmost Glands , and even in the Blood itself .
This Method seems peculiarly adapted to such an Epidemic Small-Pox , as I am now describing , in which we had all the Indications imaginable of a very viscid State of Humors .
The Blood , when drawn , was always excessively viscous , especially at the State of the Disease : Frequently there was little or no Salivation ; generally it was extremely glutinous ; so that the Nurses were many times obliged to pull the Matter out of the Patient 's Mouth with their Fingers ; and without drinking very plentifully , it would soon cease .
A Diarrhea very seldom happened to Children .
The Blisters soon dried up .
I heard of no one , during this Constitution , that made bloody Urine .
Where that dreadful Symptom happens , the Crasis of the Blood seems to be dissolved , ( as Lyster well observes ) ; on the contrary , the recited Symptoms argued a too compact and viscous Diathesis of the Blood .
This State of the Humors , during this Constitution , might , in part , at least , depend on the extraordinary Dryness of the Season , and the almost constant Northerly and Easterly Winds , which we had in the Months of October , November , February and March last .
From the Middle of January to the Middle of April , was a drier Season than ever was known in this Country , where we have certainly , in general , more continued Rain than in most Places in England , Plymouth being infamous for wet Weather .
This remarkable Change of the Temperature of the Air must undoubtedly have some considerable Effect on human Bodies : A very cold Wind suffering only the thinner Part of the Blood to pass of by Perspiration : Nor , in such Seasons , doth the Body imbibe so much of a diluting Humidity from the Air ( as Keil observes ) .
Hence the Necessity of drinking plentifully of thin diluting Liquors , which , as it is always proper in this Distemper , so , when it happens in such a Season , is highly necessary .
And I am of Opinion , Mons. Andry 's Method of bathing in warm Water and Milk , or warm Milk , before the Eruption , may , upon many Accounts , be proper in such a Constitution of the Air .
There can be no Objection against it , but its not being in Fashion .
I took particular Notice , that while , and just after the Easterly Winds blew excessively strong for seven or eight Days together in the Months of October and November , the Patients , I then saw in the Small-Pox , scarce salivated at all .
Then particularly , * an adult Person , who had the confluent Pox very severely , did not spit the least through the whole Course of the Disease ; She was seized with a violent Pleurisy the 18th Day , but was relieved by Bleeding .
The Blood was the most viscid that ever I saw .
It is remarked by Lancisi , that People expectorate very little in Disorders of the Breast , when cold , dry , Easterly Winds blow ; and it is what I have frequently observed : And this may be one Reason , why some Asthmaticks generally suffer a Paroxysm at such Seasons .
The Swelling of the Hands did not so regularly succeed the Detumescence of the Face , during this Constitution , as I have observed in other Epidemic SmallPox .
Pox .
Some had very small , or rather no Tumors at all .
It was very rare the Legs and Feet swelled , till after the Patients sat up , and then they had much Pain in the Parts .
I have often reflected upon it , whether the Succession of the Tumors of the Hands , to that of the Face , might not partly depend on the later Inflammation and Suppuration of the Pustules of those Parts : The Pain and Inflammation being a Stimulus determining the Humors to the pained Part : And it is particularly to be observed , that the greatest Pain of the Hands and Arms commonly happens at the Time , when the Salivation begins to cease : So that the Tumor of the Hands may , in some Measure , prove a Succedaneum to the Spitting .
It is the common Observation , that the Pustules of the Arms and Hands inflame and maturate a Day or two later than those of the Face , and those of the Legs and Feet latest , which may also be the Reason , that the Tumor of the Legs succeeds that of the Hands .
I have been the rather inclined to this Opinion ; inasmuch as I have sometimes observed a considerable Swelling of the Hands ( the Pustules being very painful and inflamed ) and that too in the distinct Kind , when there hath been little or none in the Face .
Generally the more painful a Boil is , the greater the Tumor around it ; and by consequence , the Tumor of a Part is in proportion to the Painfulness of the Boils , and their Number .
From this , I would enforce the Use of Epispasticks applied above the Wrists , a little before the Time we expect the Tumor of the Hands should arise , ( especially when Symptoms are treat'ning ) as they are slimuli to be depended on , not only attenuating and deriving the Humors to the Parts , but also discharging them , and so proving a convenient Outlet to the morbifick Matter , which before was thrown off by the ( now partly suppressed ) Salivation .
Blisters applied to the Neck frequently relieve the extreme Pain of the Throat , and Difficulty of swallowing which are sometimes exceeding troublesome to the Patient in the third Stadium of the Small-Pox , by drawing the Humors another Way .
Nay , in some , where Vesicatories have been early applied , and continued to run extremely , there hath been less Swelling , and less Salivation , than seemed proportionate to the Vehemence of the Distemper , but without any Disadvantage to the Patients ; the Running of the Blister supplying the Defect of the Spitting .
It seems then but reasonable , when we expect the Translation of the noxious Humor to the Hands which is what Nature itself affects , to endeavour to promote its Flux thither , and give it Vent .
How advantageous Discharges of this Nature may be , I had Occasion some Years since to observe in the Case of a Lady , for whom I was concerned , together with that worthy and ingenious Physician Dr. Seymour of this Town ; where , through the prodigious Discharge of Blisters applied to her Neck , Ears , and Arms ; as likewise a plentiful Flux of Urine , she neither swelled , nor salivated , through the whole Course of a very dangerous , confluent Small-Pox , and yet recovered .
Any Person , that hath been conversant in Practice , cannot but have observed Translations of the morbid Matter from one Part to another sometimes of the greatest Service , especially where it hath had a Discharge .
( Indeed , all critical Evacuations are of this Nature ) .
But I mean , how often hath a Boil , an Imposthume , or Swelling of the Limbs , been the evident Means of terminating a Fever ?
This I experienced particularly in myself , several Years since at Paris ; when labouring under a violent , inflammatory Fever with Delirium , the 9th Day towards Night , I was seized with excessive Pain in my Arms and Hands , upon which I bathed my Hands a long Time in warm Water , by Persuasion of two worthy Gentlemen of the Faculty , now living , who were then my Fellow Students , and watched by me .
In a little Time my Hands began to swell , and in 4 or 5 Hours my Delirium and Fever went off entirely , tho ' my Hands remained swoln and pained for some Time .
If Nature , therefore , in some Cases , take such extraordinary Methods to free herself from Diseases , how intent ought we to be in promoting her Operations , in a Distemper , where the Metastasis of the morbific Matter to the Hands and Feet is generally regular and salutary .
It is , undoubtedly , upon this View that Baglivi orders Sponges soaked in a warm emollient Decoction , to be applied to the Hands and Feet in the Small-Pox : And this , he saith , he hath done with great Success .
I have seen no less from Blisters maturely applied to the Arms and Legs ; but then I ordered the Patients to drink plentifully of a thin Whey , or the like , which takes off , in great Measure , the Acrimony of the Cantharides .
Before I conclude this Paragraph , I cannot but observe , that the Delirium , attending the Eruption of the Small-Pox , is very much alleviated by the Application of emollient Cataplasms to the Feet , in Children especially .
It is , indeed , what I do commonly of course apply , when I am consulted at the Beginning of the Distemper , and I think I have had Reason to imagine , in many Cases , that it hath been a Means of deriving the variolous Matter that Way ; and , by making the ErupH hh2 tions tions more copious in the lower Parts , the Face and Breast have suffered less than , I had Reason to fear , otherwise might have happened .
The great Tenderness of the Feet , which happens after their Application , is a trifling Disadvantage , in Comparison of the Benefit may be received by them ; and so are those shooting Pains , which often affect the Legs on the Use of those Cataplasms : Not to say , that these are rather an Argument of the Benefit arising from their Use .
In the confluent Kind , generally a Micturition and Dysury came on about the 12th , or 13th Day ; and that when there were no Bilsters applied .
It a large Quantity of turbid Urine follow 'd , it was soon succeeded by Urine , which deposed a very large Sediment ; but if it proved thin and limpid , and in small Quantity , a Delirium , Tremor , Subsultus Tendinum , and other convulsive Symptoms , soon follow 'd .
There were no Symptoms so certainly fatal at the Turn of these Small-Pox , as a Delirium , and ( what is , I think , of constant ill Omen in all Kinds of eruptive Fevers at the State ) a Dyspnaea , or the Anhelosa Respiratio : If we bled upon the first Appearance of them , we frequently saved our Patient ; the Omission of which a few Hours made the Case irrecoverable .
It was very common in Persons afflicted with these Pox , that 8 , or 10 Pustules would run together , and form a large Vesication full of a limpid , crude Matter , which would continue so several Days after the Incrustation .
* In one that died , I saw Mortifications under these Bladders .
I thought it necessary to let out this Matter with a Lancet , or Needle , as soon as possible , lest it should , ( as it did when left to itself ) cause an Ulceration ; ceration ; and I could not but believe it proper , inasmuch as the Thinness of the Matter rendered it capable of being absorbed into the Mass of Blood , and that the longer it lay , the more acrimonious it would grow , it not admitting of Concoction .
In two Patients , I saw several of the Pustules filled with a bloody Sanies : I was surprised to find * one of them get so easily over the Distemper , tho ' she laboured also under the Flux Kind .
The Desquammation was very slow , the black Crusts adhering several Days , nay Weeks , after the Turn , while abundance of purulent Matter gleeted from under them .
These left very ugly Cicatrices .
No Application seemed to me to have a better Effect , in this Case , than frequently fomenting the Parts with warm Milk , or Milk and Water ; this diluted the acrid Salts , washed them off , and softened the Skin : Oily Liniments , by stopping the Pores , are frequently hurtful .
In a Case or two I observed a Repullulation of Pustules under the Crusts in the Face and Hands , when thrown off .
This particularly in the Boy , that recovered with Purple Spots .
The latter were distinct , tho ' the former were in the greatest Degree confluent .
Nothing so certainly abated , and took off the secondary Fever after Bleeding , ( if indicated ) as gentle Cathartics ; such as Rhubarb , Manna , Tartar , Infus .
Senn .
and the like .
The hot , scammoniate , aloetic Purgers seem not so proper , at least , to begin with .
These I gave the 10th , 11th , 12th , or 13th Days , if I found the Patient have a quick Pulse , feverish Heat , dry Tongue , Head-ach , restless Anxiety , and other Symptoms of the putrid Fever .
Some one , or other of these , being once or twice repeated , I gave Calomel , and purged it off .
This was our general Method , and the most successful .
I canMr .
Bass 's Child .
I cannot but think the World highly obliged to the most learned Dr. Friend , and the other noble Ornaments of our Faculty , that have introduced , and wrote in Favour of , this Method .
In the Beginning of my Practice , relying upon the Authority of Morton , I gave the Cortex to check the secondary Fever ; especially when I found it ( as is very frequent ) evidently intermit ; but I cannot say with a Success any way answering my Expectation : Not but that after due Purging , the Bark is very proper to extinguish the hectical Disposition of the Blood , which is frequently the Consequence of the Small-Pox , to which , if a cool Regimen , and Asses Milk ( where no Idiosyncracy forbids it ) be subjoined , we have done , perhaps , as much as lies in the Power of Physic .
By this Method of early Purging , in the coherent and confluent Pox , I have seen several rescued from the most imminent Danger , whose Recovery looked rather like a Resurrection .
This , surely , is the only Way of cleansing the Primae Viae stuffed with a Load of faetid , acrid Impurities thrown off by the Glands of the Guts , which cannot be supposed to cease from their Office , during the Course of this Distemper : And forasmuch as the Pores of the Skin are at this Time very much constipated by the encrusted Pustules , it is reasonable to believe , the Glands of the Guts rather separate more than usual ; it being an allow 'd Maxim in Physic , That the Lessening one Evacuation is the Increase of another ; especially where there is such a peculiar Consent , as between the Skin and the Guts .
If so , the Excrement , being retained for a Week , or more , by its Weight pressing on the great Artery , hinders the Blood from passing freely to the lower Parts , and so deluges the Brain .
Hence those Deliriums , riums , Coma 's , &amp;c. so frequently threatening at this Stadium of the Disease .
Further , can we imagine , that the putrid Recrement of the now putrid Blood , joined , perhaps , with the Pus of the internal Pox , and having also the Addition of some Part of the morbifick Matter separated by the Glands of the Fauces , which is accidentally swallowed , must not be greatly hurtful , by remaining in the Intestines ?
where growing more and more acrimonious , ( as is the Nature even of our most balsamic Juices , when they are extra Aream Circulationis , and exposed to the constant Heat of the Body ) it contaminates the Chyle , or Liquors , that are drunk , is re-absorb 'd into the Mass of Blood , and becomes a Pabulum to the very Fever , which Nature endeavours , even this Way , partly , at least , to throw off .
And , in very Deed , what horribly offensive , faetid , large Stools do we observe in this Distemper on the Use of Clysters , and more especially after a Purgative ?
I mean at the State , or in the Declination : So that this very putrid Matter lying long in the Guts , and growing more and more so , becomes at last so virulent , as to corrode them , and brings on that very Diarrhea , or Dysentery , which , it is so vainly feared , would arise from a gentle Cathartic ; seeing we are always easily able to check its Force ( if Need be ) with an Opiate , &amp;c. How often do we find feverish , hectic Heats proceed from a Cacochymy of the first Passages , in Children especially ?
In which Case , a little Rhubarb , or a few gentle stomachick Purgers , shall do more to remove the feverish Disposition than a Pound of the Cortex .
Indeed , it 's common enough to find the Bark itself purge gently upon its first Administration : And I 'm confident , in some Cases , it hath the better Effect .
Have not we seen some Intermittents cured by one seasonable Vomit ?
And that not barely by the Shock and Agitation given to the Blood-Vessels , Genus Nervosum , &amp;c. and so acting as an Attenuant ; but by throwing off the Saburra from the Stomach , which fed the feverish Paroxysins : And this is more particularly evident in the Fever frequently supervening a Surfeit .
Hence it is , that a small Quantity of the Bark sometimes does more after a Vomit , than a much greater cou 'd before it .
Why , therefore , when there is a Lodgment of putrid Matter in the Primae Viae , which , in part , at least , feeds the secondary Fever , should not we attempt to carry it off by either gentle Vomiting or Purging , as may be judged most convenient ?
It hath , and may be objected to this Practice , that it tends to draw the noxious Humors from the Circumference to the Center ; but to this it hath been answered , that the Purging is more especia lie pleaded for , when the Incrustation is begun , and the Matter too thick to be absorbed .
If Nature , neither by her own Effort , nor the Help of Art , is capable of keeping the morbific Matter from falling on the more vital Parts ; but , by an unfortunate Translation of it , is like to sink under its Weight : As upon a sudden Retrocession of the Tumor of the Face and Hands ; a premature Suppression of the Salivation , or the like : Doth it not seem necessary to endeavour to carry off the offending Matter by some other Outlet ?
As , in the present Case , by the Guts , which are much more easily solicited to a Discharge , than either the Pores of the Skin , the urinary Passes , or the salivary Ducts .
Indeed , when the Salivation of course ceases , ( in my Opinion ) it seems necessary to promote some other Evacuation in its Room .
At the same Time , Cardiac , or Alexipharmick Medicines are in no wise contraindicated by this Method ( if judged needful ) .
This Way Nature affects in Children , to whom a gentle Diarrhea is commonly of the greatest Service , as proving a happy Substitute to the Salivation in elder Persons .
The following History will evince , how necessary it may be sometimes to evacuate an offending acrimonious Matter lodged in the Guts , and that too , even in the Midst of the Suppuration .
About three Months since , I had under my Care a* Person about 30 , ill of the Small-Pox .
It happened , that the 4th Day from the Eruption , he was seized with a violent bilious Colic , to which he had been formerly subject : This threw him into the utmost Agony .
His Pox flatted and grew pale , as likewise the Interstices : His Pulse was extreme languid , and he had a prodigious Tremor , with clammy Sweats .
I ordered him two Clysters to be thrown up ; one as soon as the other was rendered : These gave him five large bilious Stools : After the third Stool , he was tolerably easy : However , I ordered him Laudan .
Solid .
Gr .
1 ~ .
Croc .
Anglic .
Gr .
iv .
Theriac .
Andromach 3 ~ .
4tis , vel 6tis horis , to be washed down with a testaceous Julep .
He took the Laudan .
three Times , and slept sound all Night .
The next Morning , I found the Pustules round , florid and turgid .
The Man got over the Distemper , tho ' he relapsed into his Colic some Days after the Turn , which upon purging with Calomel , &amp;c. and the Use of Opiates , soon left him .
This Person , before , and at the Eruption , complained of a great Difficulty of Breathing , with a short importunate Cough , and a violent Pain under his Sternum ; for which Reason I ordered ~xvi of Blood to be drawn , which was very sizy .
* Tho. Hodge~ The major Part of the adult Persons , that had the Unhappiness to be seized with this Distemper , died ; among whom fell an old Gentlewoman of 72 ; a very uncommon Exit for a Person of her Years ~ It was a remarkable Instance of the extraordinary Virulence of these Small-Pox , that the Women ( tho ' they had had the Small-Pox before , and some very severely too ) who constantly attended those ill of the confluent Kind , whether Children , or grown Persons , had generally several Pustules broke out on their Face , Hands , and Breast , exactly resembling the pocky Pustules , which undoubtedly arose from the Matter of the crushed Pox infecting the Skin in those Parts .
Those Pustules arose , maturated , and scabb 'd off , entirely like the true Pox .
~I knew one Woman , that had more than forty on one Side of her Face and Breast ; the Child she attended , frequently leaning on those Parts on that Side .
I observed , that those , which had the tenderest Skins , and who attended those ill of the worst Sort , had most of these Eruptions .
We had abundance of Instances of this Nature .
In the Beginning of this Constitution , the SmallPox were much more malignant than they have been for this Month , or two , last past .
Indeed , when they raged most severely , some Children had them very favourably , and required no other Physic than to be duly purged after them .
~ Mr. Hicks 's Nurse : FINI S. LONDO N , Printed for W. and J. INNY S , Printers to the Royal Society , at the West End of St. Paul 's ChurchYard .

