460 Qn a Varying Cylindrical Lens .
[ Dec. 16* II .
" On a Varying Cylindrical Lens .
" By Tempest Anderson , M.D. , B.Sc. Communicated by Professor A. W. WILLIAMSON , For .
Sec. R.S. Received November 18 , 1886 .
A cylindrical lens of continuously varying power lias long beena desideratum , and one was constructed and described by Professor Stokes , at page 10 of the Report of the British Association for 1849 ( Transactions of the Sections ) .
He points out that\#151 ; " If two piano-cylindrical lenses of equal radius , one concave and the other convex , be fixed , one in the lid and the other in the body of a small round wooden box , with a hole in the top and bottom , so as to be as nearly as possible in contact , the lenses will neutralise each other when the axes of the surfaces are parallel ; and by merely turning the lid round an astigmatic lens may be formed , of a power varying continuously from zero to twice the astigmatic power of either lens .
" This very beautiful optical contrivance has the disadvantage that the refraction varies from zero in both directions at once , the refraction at any given position of the lenses being positive in one meridian , and negative or concave to an equal degree in a meridian at right angles to the first ; moreover , there is no fixed axis in which the refraction is either zero or any other constant amount .
It has in consequence never come into extensive use in the determination of the degree of astigmatism .
The author has planned a cylindrical lens in which the axis remains constant in direction and amount of refraction , while the refraction in the meridian at right angles to this varies continuously .
A cone may be regarded as a succession of cylinders of different diameters graduating into one another by exceedingly small steps , so so that if a short enough portion be considered , its curvature at any point may be regarded as cylindrical .
A lens with one side plane and the other ground on a conical tool is therefore a concave cylindrical lens varying in concavity at different parts according to the diameter of the cone at the corresponding part .
Two such lenses mounted with axes parallel and with curvatures varying m opposite directions produce a compound cylindrical lens , whose refraction in the direction of the axes is zero , and whose refraction m the meridian at right angles to this is at any point the sum of the retractions of the two lenses .
This sum is nearly constant for a considerable distance along the axis so long as the same position of the lenses is maintained .
If the lenses be slid one over the other in the direction of their axes , this sum changes , and we have a varying cylindrical lens .
The lens is graduated by marking on the frame the relative position of the lenses when cylindrical lenses of known power are neutralised .
1886 .
} On the Action of the Excised Mammalian .
461 It was found by a practical optician to be impossible to work glasses on a cone of large diameter , consequently a conical tool was constructed with an angle of 45 ' at the apex , and 8 inches diameter at the base .
A glass about 4 inches long was ground on the sides of this near the base , and as the resulting lens if ground on plane glass would have been too concave for most purposes , the outer side of the glass was previously ground to a convex cylindrical curve , and its axis applied parallel to the generating line of the cone in the plane of the axis of the cone .
The result was concavo-convex cylinders of varying power suitable for the practical measurement of astigmatism .
Lenses were exhibited varying from 0 to - 6DCy , and from 0 to + 6DCy .
IIL " On the Action of the Excised Mammalian Heart.'* By Augustus Waller , M.D. , and E. Waymouth Reid , M.B. Communicated by Prof , BuRDON SANDERSON , F.R.J5 .
Received November 18 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) The graphic method , the galvanometer , and the capillary electrometer were made use of in this research .
The animals used were the dog , rabbit , cat , rat , guinea-pig , and sheep .
The chief results were as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Spontaneous ventricular contractions , complete and capable of being recorded , continue after excision of the heart for periods which are variable , but which as a rule are longer than has generally been received to be the case ( Czermak and Piotrowsky ) .
2 .
Spontaneous ventricular contractions frequently outlast auricular contractions , both spontaneous and excited .
3 .
After spontaneous ventricular contractions have ceased to occur , electrical and mechanical excitations can still provoke contraction .
4 .
The length of contraction of both auricle and ventricle of the excised heart is very great ( 15 to 20 times the normal duration ) , whether the contraction be spontaneous or excited .
5 .
The length of the latent period increases with the length of contraction ; it may be as long as 0*75 sec. 6 .
These phenomena ( 4 and 5 ) depend principally upon the surrounding temperature .
7 .
The heart ( of a rabbit ) can regain its excitability and its power of spontaneous contraction after it has been frozen hard .

