XV .
" On the existence of the Decidua around the Ovum within the Fallopian Tube , in four Cases of Fallopian-Tube Conception , and on the absence of any trace of Decidua in the Cavity of the Uterus in the same Cases .
" By ROBERT LEE , M.D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians , London .
Received May 28 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The author observes that more than two hundred years have elapsed since Riolan published a case of Fallopian-tube gestation , and that numerous cases have since been recorded in which the human ovum , after impregnation , instead of passing into the cavity of the uterus , has been arrested in the canal of the tube , and sudden death taken place from rupture of its coats and hemorrhage into the sac of the peritoneum .
In none of these cases has a minute anatomical examination been made of the ova thus found in the Fallopian tubes , with the view of determining whether they have the same structure as ova found within the cavity of the uterus , or expelled from it prematurely in a healthy condition .
After referring to cases of Fallopian-tube conception published by Drs. Baillie , Denman , and J. Clarke , Mr. Langstaff , M. Breschet , and Dr. Elliotson , the author gives the details of four cases , in all of which there was no decidua found within the uterus , but the decidua , consisting of two layers corresponding with those usually termed decidua vera and reflexa , was found in the tube , adhering to its inner surface and surrounding the placenta and villi of the chorion .
The following is the description given by the author of the appearances observed in the last of these cases:-"The uterus was enlarged , and the whole lining membrane coated with a thick irregular layer of a substance resembling the fibrine of the blood , of a red colour , in the upper part .
The right Fallopian tube about the middle was as large as a walnut , or larger where its coats had burst , and a coagulum of blood was hanging through the irregular aperture .
The tube was pervious from the corpus fimbriatum to the dilated part .
On cutting open this expanded portion , a small embryo enclosed in the amnion was observed , and the vesicula umbilicalis , remarkably large , with its peduncle , came into view .
All the cells of the placenta and villi of the chorion were seen distended with coagulated blood and surrounded with a deciduous membrane , a great part of which has been separated from the inner surface of the tube .
"

