I. " On the Special Action of the Pancreas on Fat and Starch .
" By HORACE DOBELL , M.D. &amp;c. , Physician to the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest &amp;c. Communicated by E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. Received September 5 , 1867 .
I have been engaged for several years in experimenting with the secretion of the pancreas .
The inquiry of which I now make known the results has reference especially to the mode of action of the pancreas upon fats-a point which has been the subject of investigation by various physiologists ever since the discovery of the influence of the pancreatic fluid on the absorption of fat by Claude Bernard , nearly twenty years ago .
In the chemical parts of my experiments I owe much to the efficient aid of my friend Mr. Julius Schweitzer , and to the energy and perseverance with which he carried out my suggestions under many difficulties .
The objects of my investigations have been as follows:1 .
To discover the exact character and nature of the influence exerted by the pancreas upon fats .
2 .
To discover a means of obtaining and preserving the active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experiment in the laboratory , and for administration as a remedial agent .
3 .
To discover the effects of the adminiistration of the active principles of the pancreas as a remedial agent in certain wasting diseases , and to test , by an experimentis crucis , the truth of a conclusion on this subject , at which I had previously arrived by a process of inductive research .
I shall not occupy the valuable time of the Society by narrating the many more or less unsuccessful experiments , but restrict myself to a concise record of those attended with success .
Experiments were made with the pancreas of several different animals , but that of the pig was selected for the experiments of which I am about to give the results , as being nearest in the character of its functions to that of the human subject .
In order to ascertain the normal reaction of the pancreatic juice , and 209 whether this is altered by the length of time that has elapsed since the last meal , the fillowing experiment was made with the assistance of Mr. Schweitzer and of Mr. IHarris of Calne , who kindly placed his extensive pig-killing establishment at our service for the purpose .
On March 22 , 1866 , forty pigs were killed , and the pancreas of each examined immediately after death ; the killing7 and examination were so rapidly conducted , that the pancreas was in each case examined while warm from the body ; and the killing and examination of the forty pigs in succession occupied less than an hour .
The pigs were killed ten at a time .
The first ten had been fed two hours before they were killed , the second ten five hours , the third ten nine hours , and the fourth ten had not been fed for two days .
The pancreas in each group presented the same characters in size , colour , and reaction .
Each pancreas was cut through so as to lay open the principal duct , but in no case was there any fluid in the duct .
Litmuspaper was applied to the interior of the duct and to the divided glandcells , and on being pressed sufficiently against the tissues to absorb moisture , the paper was in each case reddened where it was moistened .
This acid reaction was not found in the fat and muscles of the animaal .
At my request , Dr. Collins , of Albert Terrace , Regent 's Park , examined the reaction of the pancreas in a series of cases at the moment when all the digestive organs were under active excitement .
He gave the pigs a good and relishing lmeal , and while they were eating it , divided the spinal marrow in the neck , so as to destroy sensation in the body .
The pigs were then immediately cut open , the pancreas removed , and its reaction examined .
On August 3rd he wrote me , " As you requested , I have tried a series of experiments upon the pancreas , parotid , and sublingual glands .
The two latter have a decidedly acid reaction , but the pancreas I am not quite so certain about ; in one batch of pigs killed in Buckinghamshire it was alkaline , but in another lot in Hertfordshire it was acid .
" The reaction of the pancreas is always acid when it reaches the laboratory for experiment as quickly as possible after removal from the animal .
This we have proved in many hundrels of instances .
To discover the influence of the pancreas upon fat , the fresh pancreas of the pig , freed from all adhering blood and other extraneous matters , was cut into small pieces , bruised , and mixed with lard ; and to this mixture water was gradually added .
In the bruised condition the pancreas had an acid reaction .
By stirring this mixture of pancreas , lard , and water , the fatty character disappeared , a thick , white , creamy fluid being formed , which , on standing , solidified into a firm pasty mass .
This mass had also an acid reaction .
In order to free it from the debris of pancreas , it was pressed through muslin , and a uniform smooth creamy emulsion remained .
This emulsion rapidly putrefied , but remained a permanrent emulsion until putrefaction set in .
the Pancreas on Fat and Starch .
The following are the microscopical characters presented by pure lard before mixture with pancreas , and by this emulsion , which I call " crude emulsion:"-1 .
" Lard " ( pure).-Aggregations of ordinary acicular crystals of margarine .
No oil-globules .
No water .
2 .
" Crude emulsion."-A tolerably uniform granular mass with separate acicular crystals of margarine , oil-globules , and water abundantly distributed throughout the mass .
In some places the crystals are aggregated as in No. 1 .
The granules range from the to 1-TW of an inch in diameter .
This mixture of fat and water differs from all other mixtures or chemical combinations of fat and water in the following particulars .
When the " crude emulsion " is put into ether , the ether separates it into two strataa .
An ethereal stratum above containing the fat .
b. A watery stratum below .
When the upper stratum ( a ) ( ethereal solution of fat ) is drawn off and the ether evaporated by a cautiously regulated heat , a pure crystalline fat remains which I call " pancreatized fat .
" This pancreatized fat has no tendency to putrefy , and will keep for an indefinite period .
It presents the following characters under the microscope:3 .
" Pancreatized fat " ( lard ) consists of minute separate acicular crystals of margarine and fine granular matter uniformly distributed .
The special character is the complete loss of aggregation of the crystals .
This " pancreatized fat " retains the property of mixing or combining with water , and forming a thick , smooth , creamy emulsion , that it possessed in the form of " crude emulsion " before solution in ether .
The emulsion formed by mixture of " pancreatized fat " with water I call " purified pancreatic emulsion .
" It has , like the crude emulsion , an acid reaction , and will keep for a very long time , and presents the following microscopical characters:4 .
" Purified emulsion " ( No. 3 , spirit andwater).-As nearly as possible the same as No. 2 ; the separate crystals more uniformly distributed , and fewer aggregations of them .
No globules* .
On analysis of the lower watery stratum ( b ) resulting from the separation of the fat of the crude emulsion by ether , it is found to contain no glycerine .
On analysis of the pancreatized fat ( 3 ) obtained by evaporating the ether from stratum a , it is found that 100 parts of the pancreatized fat are saponified by 54 parts of oxide of lead , and yield 146'25 parts of leadplaster , and 6'75 parts of glycerine .
It is also found that every 100 parts of lard used in making the crude emulsion produce 106'5 parts of pancreatized fat , the increase of 6-5 parts being solely due to absorption of water , as proved by heating the pancreatized fat , when the water separates , and the pancreatized fat is reconverted into ordinary lard .
In all the foregoing respects the pancreatic emulsion of fat differs entirely from all other kinds of emulsion of fatty matter , whether chemical or mechanical .
All other emulsions of fat are destroyed by ether , the fat being restored at once to its original condition .
The influence exerted by the pancreas upon fats , therefore , appears to operate by breaking up the aggregation of the crystals of the fat and altering its hydration .
It alters the molecular condition of the fat , mingling it with water in such a way that even ether cannot separate the fat from the water .
A permanent emulsion is thus formed ready to mix with a larger quantity of water whenever it may be added .
The pancreas , therefore , in acting upon fat , does not decompose it into fatty acid and glycerine , the absence of the glycerine from the watery stratum ( b ) , and the presence of the glycerine in the pancreatized fat of the ethereal stratum ( a ) , having been demonstrated .
Action of the pancreas upon starch.-It is well known that , in addition to the influence of the pancreas upon fat , it has the power of converting starch into glycose by simple mixture .
This property remains to a certain extent after the pancreas has exhausted its property of acting upon fat .
The quantity of pancreas which before mixture with fat will convert about eight parts of starch into glycose , after saturation with fat will still convert about two parts of starch into glycose .
Second object.-To discover a means of preserving the active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experiment in the laboratory , and for administration as a remedial agent .
The properties of the pancreas can be extracted from the tissue of the gland by means of water .
This watery fluid putrefies very rapidly .
It has an acid reaction , a deep yellow colour , coagulates largely by boiling , leaving the colour of the fluid unaltered .
It may be precipitated by leadsolution , and decomposed again by sulphuretted hydrogen .
When this watery fluid is evaporated , it forms a syrupy extract , which is highly hygroscopic and very difficult to dry .
With great care and trouble , however , it may be dried .
For general purposes , the drying is greatly facilitated by adding a dry absorbing-powder , such as powdered malt .
For experimental purposes , it may be used in its pure undried state of syrupy extract , but must in that case be used fresh .
In the dry state , either pure or mixed with malt-dust , it may be kept good for an indefinite length of time , if protected from moisture in a well-closed bottle .
This extract of the pancreas , containing the active principles of the pancreas in the highest degree of efficiency , whether fluid or powdered , I call " pancreatine .
" This term is used only for convenience ' sake , and must in no way be understood to signify that the property possessed by it is single .
All attempts to isolate the several properties of the pancreas into separate [ Dec. 12 , products have failed , no one of such products having been found to possess in perfection the property of acting upon fat in the manner described in this paper as peculiar to the pancreas .
By the term " pancreatine , " then , I desire to represent the entire properties of the pancreas extracted in a convenient form for keeping , for experiment , and for administration as a remedial agent .
One part of the pure pancreatine dried , without mixture with malt-dust , will digest at least sixteen parts of lard , and enable it to form a thick creamy emulsion , with about 100 parts of water .
The emulsion thus formed presents in every respect the characters and qualities of the emulsion produced by the fresh pancreas already described .
In this way therefore the active principles of the pancreas may be obtained and preserved in a form suitable for experiment in the laboratory and for administration as a remedial agent .
The third object of my investigations has especially occupied my attention in a long series of experiments at the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest .
Full details of these and of the results obtained have been published from time to time , during the last four years , in the medical journals ; I shall not , therefore , occupy the time of the Society with any account of them in this paper .

