Some Inquiries relating particularly to the Bleeding of Walnuts ; suggested by Dr. Ezerel Tonge in a Letter of his to the Publisher , of March 22 .
1670 .
AFter I had been troubled a while at the Observation of Mr. Willoughby , concerning Sycamores staying in hot , and running in cold weather , and had re-commended an Hypothesis to salve the Phenomenon , and to reconcile the seeming repugnancy's* , he hath raised two other difficulties for me , of Sycomores running in November , and Walnuts never running but in cold weather : The former of which Observations puts me out of conceit of a Salvo , I found , and offered , in my published Papers , to Birch supposed to have run in Autumn , and found to have jelly 'd the hole * Of which in Numb. hole full at Spring , which was bored that time Twelve-Moneth before , and yielded not any sap at all that Spring , as far as could be observed , and was not come to its season of bleeding the second Spring , when the Jelly was observed in the bored hole * .
The latter , of the Walnut not bleeding but in cold weather , being inconsistent with the Observations , often made by me of that Tree , not only bleeding and bleeding longer in warmer weather , but bleeding longer at the roots on the South-side in the Sun , than on the North-side in the Shade , and constantly governing the Course of its Sap in its beginning to rise and to stop daily at the rising and setting of the Sun ; I shall betake my self , instead of opining , to make some naked Queries for the finding out the matter , viz. * See Numb. 44 .
p. 890 .
1 .
Whether this Observation of Mr. Willoughby 's concerning the Walnut-Tree , was in Roots , Body , Branches ; all , or some , or one ?
2 .
Whether the Sap of a Tree , as to its motion , be not influenced from the Full or Wane , or other Aspect of the Moon to the Sun , &amp; c ?
3 .
Whether the Walnut , being a more solid Wood , have not some alteration as to heat , ascent of Sap , &amp;c. from thence different from Birch ?
4 .
What the Age and Bulk of the Tree , consuming perhaps insensibly what rose insensibly in hot , not in cooler Weather ?
5 .
What the time of the Year ?
The Aspes run only , as M. Midford relates , before February ; the Hopp about Hopp-harvest .
Withies in April , &amp;c. 6 .
Whether the weight of the Atmo-sphere will put some check to Sap rising in that part of the Root , which is cut off from the Body ?
And whether the exclusion of that Imped meant , by closing the cut Root in Glass , will cause any sensible alteration : to be tried in several Roots of the same Tree of like Diameter .
I want a good Thermometer , Barometer , and Hygro-meter , ( or if you will have English Names for them , a Heat-Weight-and-Wet-Wiser ) to make more accurate Observations , how far the ascending of Sap depends on the Air , and the several temperatures of the same .

