Nearly thirty years ago Dobereiner observed , when preparing formic acid by distilling a mixture of starch , peroxide of manganese and sulphuric acid , that the liquid which passed into the receiver contained a small quantity of oil which rendered it turbid .
To this oil Dobereiner gave the fanciful name of " artificial oil of ants , " though the very limited quantity in which he was able to procure it prevented him from determining almost any of its properties .
The author 's attention was first directed to the subject in 1840 , when he found that the oxide of manganese was unnecessary , and that the oil could be readily prepared by operating on most vegetable substances with either sulphuric or muriatic acid .
The oil , on analysis , was found to have the formula Cl 1-16 0 , , and to contain oxygen and hydrogen in the proportions to form water , while all other oils and fats contain an excess of hydrogen .
The late Dr. Fownes took up the subject in 1845 , and made the interesting discovery , that when the oil which he called furfurol is heated with ammonia , a crystalline amide is formed .
When this amide is boiled with caustic lies , it is changed into the crystallizable base furfurine .
The paper then describes the best mode of preparing furfurol , and also the method of purifying it from an oil with which crude furfurol is always accompanied , and to which the name of meta-fiurfurol has been given .
Meta-furfurol is the cause of the bright red coloration which impure furfurol instantly produces when it is treated with muriatic or sulphuric acids in the cold .
This portion of the paper concludes with some new observations on furfurol , and an examination of some of the salts of furfurine .
It has been pretty satisfactorily ascertained that the constituent of plants which yields furfurol is the matiere incrustante of M. Payen , viz. the matter with which the interior of the cells of plants is lined .
This is an amorphous granular substance which has been gradually deposited from the sap in its passage through the tissue of the plant .
It is most abundant in hard woods , such as oak and teak , especially in the oldest portions which lie nearest the heart of the tree .
As the author of the paper was led to conjecture that the mcatiere incrustante of the different great classes of vegetables would be found on examination analogous but not identical , he thought it likely that the oils derivable from them would also prove not identical with furfurol , though probably very analogous to it in their nature and properties .
The alga or sea-weeds , whose structure is very different from that of ordinary herbaceous plants , were employed to test the truth of this hypothesis .
They yielded an aromatic oil to which the name of fucusol was given .
Though essentially different from furfurol , it closely resembles that oil in its properties , being also isomeric with it .
Fucusol forms a crystallizable amide with ammonia , called fucus amide , which , when it is boiled with alkaline lies , is also converted into an organic base-fucusine , which is likewise isomeric with fuirfurine , Fucusine is a rather difficultly crystallizable base ; but some of its salts , especially the nitrate , may be readily procured in large crystals .
In solubility and crystalline form they differ from those of the corresponding base .
The paper contains an analysis of these salts .
The mosses and lichens were also found to yield fucusol .
The ferns , on the other hand , yield a peculiar oil , which differs both from fucusol and firfurol , possessing properties intermediate between them .
The results of these experiments seem to indicate some curious botanical relations , as it appears highly probable that the matiere incrustante is the same in all phanerogamous plants as they yield furfurol .
On the other hand , the matiere incrustante in the Alge , mosses and lichens , as it yields fucusol and not furfurol , though the same in each of these classes , is evidently different from that of phanerogamous plants .
The matiere incrustante of ferns appears however to be dissimilar from either of the others , as it yields an analogous but peculiar oil .

