353 Observations on the Life-Cycle of a New , Helkesimastix* faecicola , n.g. , n.sp .
: Together Remarks on the Question of Syngamy in the Trypanosomes .
By H. M. Woodcock , D.Sc .
, Assistant to the Professor of Protozoology , University of London , and G. Lapage , M.Sc .
, Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Zoology , Victoria University , Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. S. J. Hickson , F.R.S. Received July 31 , 1913 .
) [ Plates 13 and 14 .
] This new flagellate occurs frequently in goat-dung ; we have found it also in sheep-dung .
It is a " passenger , " being carried passively through the alimentary tract , in an encysted condition .
When the dung is moistened with water\#151 ; probably , in nature , when it is deposited on damp grass or earth\#151 ; the flagellate emerges from its cyst and goes through its life-cycle , ultimately encysting again .
The cysts are doubtless swallowed by the goat with its fodder .
We have cultivated Helkesimastix under various conditions , which will be described in our full account later .
In order to obtain this form in large numbers and study its life-history without any fear of being misled by stages in the life-cycle of other flagellates , we succeeded in isolating it from the other forms occurring in simple dung-cultures and cultivating it on agar-media , on which it multiplies rapidly .
The medium which we have used principally is weak Lemco-agar , i.e. the same medium as used for blood-agar , but considerably diluted .
For our continuous observations we have used hanging-drop preparations in sealed cells ; in these cases we used very dilute Lemco-broth , without any agar , as the medium for the development of the flagellates , because in the denser agar-medium it is very difficult to see the flagellum .
In all these media the flagellate forms the protozoan component of a " mixed culture , " since there is , of course , an even greater and more rapid bacterial development .
Commencing the account of the life-cycle with the permanent cyst , this is a small spherical or slightly ovoid body about 3-3^ / i in diameter ( figs. 1-3 ) .
The cyst-wall is well defined , but not very thick ; it appears to consist of a single membrane , there being no differentiation into inner and outer envelope such as is found , for example , in many Amoeba cysts .
Sometimes bacteria are adherent to the cyst-wall ( fig. 3 ) .
The protoplasm is * The generic name is formed on the analogy of the Homeric epithet , trailing mantle or cloak .
We are indebted to Prof. Mincliin for suggesting this appropriate name .
VOL. LXXXV1II.\#151 ; B. 2 E 354 Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
fairly homogeneous , or contains fine granules .
There is frequently , however , a conspicuous , somewhat refringent grain , situated near the periphery ( Plate 13 , figs. 1 and 2 ) , but no vacuole is present .
The nucleus can usually be seen as a clearer , area , and at times the contained karyosome can be distinctly made out as a dull body in the centre .
No division takes place inside the cyst , which is therefore a resting or " Dauer " cyst and not a multiplicative one .
Excystation.\#151 ; We have followed the process of excystation in cysts which had been for about 22 hours in fresh medium ( Liebig broth ) .
This is not quite the minimum period required , before the flagellate will emerge from its cyst , for in this particular preparation some half-dozen individuals were already active by this time , though the great majority were still encysted .
The period which must elapse depends , we consider , upon how soon the multiplication of the active bacilli in the new environment has taken place to a sufficient extent to produce , in sufficient quantity , the ferment or chemical substance in solution which is either directly or indirectly the cause of the dissolution of the cyst-wall .
For we are strongly of opinion that the explanation of both the encystment and the excystation of Helkesimastix ( and probably equally of other dung- and infusion-flagellates ) is to be found in the view put forward by Cropper and Drew* in their recent important and suggestive work on the causative factors of the corresponding phenomena in Amoeba .
We hope to study our new flagellate from this biological standpoint subsequently , and will here merely indicate in passing certain facts we have observed which bear upon the question .
We have found excystation occurring only in those cultures , plates , or observation-preparations in which there was a plentiful development of an ( or of more than one ) active , markedly aerobic bacillus , which we have not yet more closely determined .
We have kept cysts in ordinary cover-slip preparations in different media ( the preparations being sealed , of course , to prevent evaporation ) , for several days , without the emergence of any active individuals taking place ; and in such preparations , the medium not being in contact with free air , no noticeable development of active bacilli took place .
In a cyst from which the flagellate is about to be liberated the wall is noticed to become gradually less and less obvious , until at length one can no longer say that there is any envelope present , apart from the delicate membrane or pellicle limiting the body-protoplasm ( fig. 4 ) .
There is no definite rupture or bursting of the wall at any point , through which the flagellate could pass out to the exterior ; in other words , when the creature has again become active and moved off , there is no cyst-wall left behind .
We were the * 'Researches on Induced Cell-reproduction in Amoeba ?
, ' London , John Murray , 1914 .
Observations on the Life-Cycle of Helkesimastix fsecicola .
355 more convinced of this because we had previously seen the excystation of a species of Bodo from other dung-cultures , and in that case the rupture of the cyst-wall was very evident , and when the Bodo had moved away the empty cyst-wall was left behind .
To return to when a sphere from which the cyst-wall had disappeared was watched it was seen gradually to change its shape , and in about seven minutes had elongated somewhat and become ovoid ( fig. 5 ) .
Near one extremity a small vacuole had made its appearance , which represented the contractile vacuole ; active metabolism had again begun .
Very slight , spasmodic movements were noticed at intervals , and then suddenly it was seen that a very short , delicate flagellum was present , apparently emerging from about the middle of the body ( fig. 6 ) .
This waved slowly to and fro , though we do not feel at all certain that it was causing the jerky movements .
The flagellum could at first be made out only when it was projecting from the side of the creature , and not when it lay over the body-protoplasm .
Meanwhile the flagellate was growing in size rapidly , and five or six minutes later it appeared as in fig. 7 : the flagellum had lengthened considerably and was more prominent and stouter , and its point of origin was now near to the anterior end .
The nucleus had doubtless also passed towards the anterior end , but unfortunately it could not be clearly made out ; this was owing partly to the jerky movements and partly to the fact that the protoplasm was becoming very granular .
The jerky , to and fro movements of the body , producing no displacement of the creature , are very characteristic of certain phases ; we describe them as " knicking " movements { cf. below , p. 358 ) .
Ten minutes later the flagellate was beginning to make short , gliding movements of progression , and these alternated for some time with the knicking movements until , after about an hour , it moved steadily for the first time out of the field of vision .
During this period the same process had been going on throughout the preparation , and many actively gliding individuals were now present .
These were all growing rapidly before beginning to multiply , and attained a size .considerably larger than the average individual size found later on ; the protoplasm was usually full of refringent granules .
Form and Structure.\#151 ; The body of the ordinary active individual of Helkesimastix fcecicola is typically elongated and fairly cylindrical , with one end ( the anterior one ) bluntly rounded , the other ( posterior ) one tapering away more and being at times somewhat pointed ( figs. 8 , 10 , 13 ) .
The broadest part of the body is generally nearer to the anterior end .
We can most aptly compare the form with that of the fleshy part of a small carrot .
Sometimes the hinder extremity is drawn out into a narrow prolongation ( fig. 11 ) .
This hinder part of the body is often very plastic and irregular , 2 e 2 Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
and reminds us somewhat of the posterior extremity of Cercobodo ( monas ) , with its long cytoplasmic " tail , " though in HelkesimastAx it is never , in normal conditions , drawn out to anything like the same extent .
The body is usually about 6/ 4 to 7/ t long by 2\#163 ; /t or 2/ i broad .
Under other conditions the shape of the body may be oval or slightly pyriform ( figs. 9 , 18 ) ; this is frequently the case in smaller individuals , and also when the flagellates are sluggish , in a rather denser medium than usual .
There is a single flagellum , generally about two and a half to three times as long as the body , or even longer , inserted at , or very near to , the anterior end .
This new flagellate is remarkable in having its flagellum always directed backwards , i.e.it possesses only a trailing flagellum , whence the generic name .
In life , the flagellum is usually contiguous to the body for practically the entire length of the latter , and the proximal portion is always in very close contact with about the anterior third or so of the body , from which it never becomes free .
This is seen very clearly when a steadily progressing individual makes a sharp turn and goes off in another direction .
The proximal portion of the flagellum also turns immediately , along with the body , but the remaining part is for the moment free from the latter and turns more gradually into the new direction ( cf. fig. 14 ) .
The flagellum lies along the middle of the upper ( dorsal ) side of the creature ; in ordinary conditions it is never on the under side .
Sometimes the flagellate turns on its side , when the close adherence of the flagellum is well shown ( fig. 10 ) .
Yet , in spite of this close contact , there is certainly no attaching membrane developed , for , in individuals killed by osmic acid , the flagellum is sometimes seen to stand off completely from the body ( cf. fig. 12 ) .
Frequently there is a definite row of three or four conspicuous granules along the line of contact of the body with the flagellum ( figs. 10 , 11 ) .
The nucleus can generally be seen as a clear , spherical area near the anterior end ; in individuals in motion it is sometimes difficult to see the karysome , but in those quiescent , or in individuals killed by osmic acid vapour , this body can also be made out { cf.fig .
12 ) .
Helkesimastixis not a binucleate ; it has no kinetonucleus.* There is certainly no cytostome or definite mouth-aperture present .
We are not quite certain , however , whether the creature does or does not ingest solid particles , such as small cocci , etc. ; we are strongly inclined to think it does not .
In this connection , a peculiar mode of food-ingestion which we have observed in Cercomonas ( or Cercobodo ) longicauda is of interest .
While * We may add that , as seen in stained preparations , the nucleus is of the usual flagellate character , consisting of a nuclear membrane , a clear zone ( the nuclear sap ) , and a large central karyosome , connected with the membrane by delicate radiating fibrils .
Observations on the Life-Cycle 0/ Helkesimastix fhecicola .
357 an individual was moving sluggishly along , the posterior , plastic part of the body would come into contact at some point with a small extraneous particle .
A small portion of the protoplasm of the flagellate in the immediate neighbourhood of the point of contact would remain adherent to the still stationary particle for a few seconds , gradually engulfing it , while the Cercomonas moved calmly on .
Thus most of the body was quickly separated from the small portion of cytoplasm remaining behind , until often only an extremely thin thread or line of protoplasmic substance still joined the two parts ; this thread might be as long as the whole body of the flagellate .
Suddenly the tension of the connecting thread overcame the resistance of the stationary particle , and the latter , together with the small portion of protoplasm surrounding it , was safely hauled up again into the main body .
We often thought the thread must break , but it never did !
As our new flagellate shows a resemblance in some respects to Cercomonas , we have watched particularly for the occurrence of anything corresponding , which , however , we have never seen , although analogous appearances are seen during conjugation ( cf. below ) .
We have never been able to satisfy ourselves that Helkesimastix does engulf solid particles at the hinder , plastic end , but do not deny the possibility of it doing so .
We certainly consider , however , that its principal mode of nutrition is by osmosis .
The natural habitat of the creature , namely , moist dung , is , of course , rich in organic matter in solution , when the bacteria have been active for a little time .
In therefore , we have an instance of a form which is , at all events , mainly saprozoic .
The contractile vacuole is usually small , that is to say , it contracts before it attains a large size .
It is generally situated in the hinder part of the body , to one side ( figs. 8 , 10 ) .
Now and again , however , owing doubtless to some condition of the medium , the contractile vacuole becomes very large ( fig. 15 ) .
Immediately after it has ruptured the protoplasmic wall and its contents have passed out to the exterior , the body of the flagellate presents for a short time the curious appearance of fig. 16 ; the hinder end is forked , like the two arms of a V. After a little while it becomes triangular ( fig. 17 ) , and ultimately assumes again its normal shape .
Another point illustrating the looseness or plasticity of the body is a method of turning round often shown by a sluggishly moving individual .
It will come to rest , and the body becomes more ovoid ( fig. 18 ) .
Then the side with which the flagellum is in close contact begins to show what we term " working " movements ; at first the peripheral protoplasm moves in slow , short , irregular waves to and fro , the line both of the contiguous part of the flagellum and of the row of granules ( if these are present ) becoming meanwhile indented and Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
uneven ( fig. 19 ) .
These peripheral movements of the protoplasm can perhaps he compared , on a very small scale , with the wave-like movements of the ectoplasm of Amoeba verrucosa .
Next , the anterior portion of the body-protoplasm on this side is moved as a whole backwards , around the central part , as it were , carrying with it the anterior part of the flagellum and the granules , and also , doubtless , the nucleus ( cf. fig. 20 ) .
Finally , the creature elongates again , having the anterior part of its body now where the posterior part formerly was ( fig. 21 ) , and is ready to swim away in just the opposite direction .
Movements.\#151 ; Helkesimastix possesses two distinct and characteristic methods of locomotion .
One , the more usual mode , is very interesting , because it is very difficult to explain ; in fact , we do not know quite how to explain it .
The creature glides forwards with a steady , almost unwavering movement , the flagellum trailing behind in a straight line .
While the rate of progression is not as rapid as that of a Monas or a Bodo , for example , the movement cannot by any means be called slow ; indeed , it is often surprisingly fast , considering how little there seems to be to account for it .
There is certainly no vibration of the free , distal part of the flagellum at all ; in this method of movement , the flagellum does not act as a pulsellum .
The creature is always at the surface of the medium when moving in this way ( or it is gliding along the under surface of the cover-slip ) , the flagellum in both cases being uppermost .
This fact leads us to think that surface-tension plays some part in this type of movement .
The body is , as it were , suspended along its length to the flagellar thread , as a gymnast may be suspended along a tight rope .
The body is often seen to swing sideways partially around its flagellum , appearing then as in fig. 10 ; but it never swings right above the flagellum .
The only movement of the body which can be noted is a very slight " knicking " movement of the anterior end , i.e. the anterior end may make little tentative jerks from side to side , perhaps caused by slight contractions of the anterior end of the flagellum .
But the anterior end of the body is not displaced laterally by more than half its width , if as much , and the strength of these slight movements appears wholly insufficient to produce the steady forward progression ; moreover , the creature may glide for quite a considerable distance without even these .
The other characteristic mode of progression occurs when an individual is in the middle of the fluid , i.e. completely surrounded by it .
Then it performs vigorous , more or less undulatory movements of its whole body and flagellum , the latter , as regards its applied portion , never becoming separated from the body , and with its free , distal part lashing actively behind .
The movement of the body is very like that of a fish 's tail , and not at all unlike the Observations on the Life-Cycle Helkesimastix faecicola .
359 movements of certain trypanosomes .
Yet , in spite of all this activity , the rate of progression is no greater than is obtained by the quiet surface gliding .
One other variety of movement\#151 ; not of progression\#151 ; remains to be noted .
An individual which has been gliding about will become anchored by the end of its flagellum to some particle of debris or small clump of bacteria .
The body will then execute sharp bending or knicking movements about its narrow , posterior end , where the flagellum becomes free , often turning through nearly 180 ' , and then turning back again .
This anchoring process recalls the anchoring of some Bodos by the trailing flagellum , but the body movement in Helkesimastix is not at all of the vibrating or dancing character seen in the Bodo , because it lacks the anterior , vibratile flagellum .
Multiplication.\#151 ; After the flagellates have been active for some hours multiplication begins .
We have not observed it occurring up to six hours after excystation has taken place , but by the end of 20 hours it was proceeding actively and had evidently been going on for some time .
An individual about to undergo division always comes to rest in the first place .
The body becomes ovoid and then practically spherical ( figs. 22 , 24 , 27 ) .
The subsequent course of events is not always quite uniform , though the variations are only slight .
In the great majority of cases , by the time the body-form has become rounded , or even after it has been ovoid for a short while , the flagellum is no longer visible .
The free part has entirely disappeared , and we are strongly inclined to think that the attached part also goes , though we cannot write with absolute certainty because it is extremely difficult to detect a motionless flagellum lying over , and closely applied to , the body .
However , we think that , in many cases , it is probably entirely withdrawn and absorbed , especially as , just prior to this stage , small " working " movements of the peripheral protoplasm occur at the side where the flagellum lay .
At this stage the clear nuclear area can frequently be seen to be elongated and to possess now two karyosomatic bodies ( fig. 22 ) , the parent-karyosome having already divided .
Next , the body begins to elongate again ( figs. 23 , 29 ) , and in a minute or two more becomes slightly dumb-bell shaped ( fig. 25 ) .
The two daughter-nuclei are practically reconstituted and have begun to separate by this time ( figs. 23 , 29 ) ; they can usually be seen because the body remains motionless during this period .
( We hope to give information with regard to the cytological details both of multiplication and conjugation in a subsequent memoir , when we have studied fixed and stained preparations ) .
The time of appearance of the first new ( daughter ) flagellum varies somewhat .
As a 360 Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
rule , it does not appear until the dumb-bell stage is reached , when it can suddenly be seen projecting out from the side of the body , a short distance from one end ( fig. 23 ) , and waving slightly to and fro .
Occasionally , however , it can be seen while the creature is still rounded ( fig. 24 ) , and in such a case it may represent the old flagellum , which has been only partially withdrawn .
The constriction at the middle of the elongated body now rapidly increases ( figs. 25 , 30 ) , and about this time the second flagellum appears , always some distance away from the first and in the other half of the body , not far from the second nucleus .
Very generally , the second new flagellum projects out from the side of the body opposite that where the first one is .
The flagella increase in length and the body undergoes little irregular , jerky movements .
Its middle part becomes narrower and more drawn out , the whole body having now the appearance of a double pear .
Usually the two flagella have their free ends directed towards the middle , the bluntly rounded extremities becoming the anterior ends of the two daughter-individuals ; though sometimes the second daughter-flagellum ( the later developed one ) starts from near the middle of the body , near to the constriction connecting the two halves , and points outwards .
Ultimately , helped by the movements of the flagella , the two halves of the body are drawn still farther apart and the small daughter-individuals at length separate , gliding away in opposite directions .
The cytoplasmic " tail , " which each at first possesses , rapidly contracts and the typical body-form is attained ( fig. 31 ) .
In the above type of division , which is the most usual one , we regard the cytoplasmic fission as being approximately transverse to the original long axis , so that in this case we have the flagellate undergoing transverse division of the body .
The whole process is fairly rapid .
From the time when an individual has become ovoid and practically motionless to the time of separation of the two daughter-individuals only 10 to 15 minutes usually elapse .
Now and again , however , the process is slower , taking upwards of 25 minutes ; but this is of rare occurrence .
In such a case , moreover , we have noticed that the body becomes divided before the second flagellum is formed , so that one daughter-individual swims away , leaving the other motionless for a few minutes longer , until it has developed its flagellum .
On one or two occasions we have observed a modification of the above method of division , a second flagellum being formed while the old one is still present , having only been withdrawn ( shortened ) a little ( fig. 32 ) .
The shortening proceeds further ( fig. 33 ) , but in this case the old flagellum is not entirely absorbed but forms the basis of one of the daughter-flagella .
In this variety of division we regard the fission of the body as being more in the long Observations on the Life-Cycle Helkesimastix faecicola .
361 axis , rather than transverse .
This may represent a more primitive mode , ' which has been largely relinquished in favour of the other .
Syngamy.\#151 ; In a fresh culture ( either agar-plate or observation-preparation ) , after the flagellates have once emerged from their cysts , multiplication goes on , often at first with amazing rapidity , for two days or so , until by about the third day\#151 ; or sometimes even earlier\#151 ; an epidemic of conjugation sets in .
The only important point in the whole life-cycle in regard to which we are not yet certain is whether definite conjugating individuals , gametes , morphologically distinctive from the usual forms , are developed , and , if they are , whether these are anisogamous or not .
Our difficulty arises from the fact that in a culture in which conjugation is beginning , the flagellates present show more or less the customary variation in size and form ; and , further , we have not yet succeeded in seeing two individuals actually come together and unite .
In most of the cultures in which we have observed conjugation , the majority of the individuals belong to one of two slightly different types .
One of these is rather characteristic and distinctive , we think , of this period .
It has the posterior end of the body gradually tapering and always turned definitely to one side ( figs. 34 , 35 ) , usually , though not invariably , the right side , when the flagellum is dorsal or uppermost .
The curved tail-portion differs from the irregular extension sometimes seen at the hinder end in ordinary individuals ( of .
fig. 11 ) , in being fairly constant and not so changeable or metabolic , now retracted and now drawn out , as in that case .
The other type is distinctly smaller , but is not so readily distinguishable from an ordinary individual ( fig. 36 ) ; it is oval in shape , and the hinder end is usually more bluntly rounded .
In an observation-preparation in which syngamy has begun , two individuals are often noticed to come into contact and glide along together for a short while ( fig. 37 ) .
The members of such a pair are very frequently\#151 ; though , again , not invariably\#151 ; of the two distinct forms just noted .
The larger one of the two often appears to stick , or become attached to the other by its curved , hinder end ( fig. 38 ) ; when this happens , both individuals get very excited and actively jerk themselves about for a moment or two ; then they will either separate abruptly or glide along together for a short distance again , and then move apart .
Unfortunately , we have never seen this process followed by actual union , and therefore cannot say whether it represents a tentative seeking out of each other by definite gametes .
Only in one case , up to the present , have we caught the two gametes in close contact , with the body-protoplasm of each still separate just for an instant before joining up ( fig. 39 ) ; and , in this case , so far as could be gathered from our momentary impression before the two protoplasmic masses ran together , as it were , into Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
one , the two conjugating individuals were not very dissimilar .
We leave the matter there for the present , but hope to settle it before publishing our detailed account.* Of course , the actual coming together and uniting is a matter of a few seconds , and therefore difficult to catch ; but the gradual fusion of the two gametes and the subsequent development of the zygote is a long process , and we have observed every stage in it , on many occasions .
The actual cytoplasmic union is lateral ( fig. 40 ) , and immediately after it has occurred one would think that a single protoplasmic entity was now constituted .
But the subsequent behaviour is amazing and unique , so far as we are aware , in the history of conjugating elements , and well illustrates the looseness of the first union and the fluidity of the protoplasm in Helkesimastix\#151 ; and , we doubt not , in other of these dung- and infusion-flagellates .
As soon as the actual cytoplasmic union has occurred , the definite form of the two gametes is practically lost , and there is for some time a remarkable lack of attraction , or reluctance to unite , between the two essential parts , if we may thus regard the nuclei and associated elements together with the portion of cytoplasm immediately surrounding them .
( This is probably because the nuclei have not yet undergone a process of maturation .
) We cannot do better than describe the sequence of form-changes undergone by the zygote immediately following the union , in the instance referred to .
The conjugants of fig. 40 had not been joined for more than a minute or so before they separated again in the anterior region , one individual being desirous of steering off to the right , while the other preferred to keep straight on ( fig. 42 ) .
This little difference being composed and the two individuals joined up again , one began to lag behind the other , the combined body appearing now like an irregular rhomboid ( fig. 43 ) .
The conjugants were progressing forwards , more or less steadily , all the time .
In the next instant the smaller half had slipped still further back , and the body had now the appearance of fig. 44 .
A few seconds later it was quite behind the larger half ( or individual ) , the two being connected together only by a narrow cytoplasmic thread ( fig. 45 ) .
After progressing thus for a short distance the smaller half rapidly overtook the one in front by a kind of " slithering " movement along it , and the protoplasm of both again joined up along the side ( fig. 46 ) .
A few seconds later a very characteristic stage was reached , in which the combined body of the two conjugants * We have since reconsidered the above point and now think that the tendency to adhere in couples in this way is probably purely a matter of surface tension or attraction .
We have observed the same phenomenon in observation-preparations of a non-conjugating strain of a closely allied species ( videp .
366 , et seq.)\lt ; Obse7'vation$ on the Life-Cycle of Helkesimastix fsecicola .
363 was almost square , the whole zygote , with its two flagella trailing along near the outer sides , having almost the appearance of a procession banner ( fig. 47 ) .
( At a later stage the body becomes more definitely rectangular and banner-like .
) In this particular instance the zygote remained thus for a couple of minutes or so , moving along steadily , the two " halves " with their flagella at times approximating slightly , causing the common cytoplasm to sag , as it were , just as a banner does when its pole bearers do not keep their line .
Now and again the zygote turned on its side , when it appeared as in fig. 41 .
At length it altered again completely , a portion of the body , apparently about a third of the bulk , advancing quickly in front of the remainder ( fig. 48 ) , until the two portions were only connected by a very narrow thread of cytoplasm , which was at first extended along and in contact with the greater part of the flagellum ( fig. 49 ) .
We have no doubt that in this remarkable dissociation of the zygote into two portions , one nucleus goes with each half , just as the origin and proximal part of the flagellum can clearly be seen to do .
Unfortunately , we could not make out the nuclei at all during these living observations of the conjugation-processes ; this was due partly to the fact that in the earlier stages the conjugating pairs are very active and constantly undergoing form-changes , and partly because , in the later stages , the nuclei are most probably undergoing maturation prior to nuclear fusion .
This separation , which may amount almost to disruption , of the common cytoplasm into two portions reminds us of the behaviour of the protoplasm of Cercomonas(Cercobodo ) above alluded to , but in it is not a passive leaving behind of a certain amount of protoplasm , but a separation actively brought about by a difference in behaviour of the two gametic energids .
Here , again , in more than one instance ( of .
fig. 54 ) , we felt sure that actual rupture was going to occur , but we have observed this remarkable process on several occasions and the two halves never broke loose .
To return to our particular zygote , the small leading portion suddenly turned right round , its flagellum becoming at the same time mostly free from the cytoplasmic thread ( fig. 50 ) , and then joined up again to the main portion ( figs. 51 and 52 ) .
The zygote next assumed the form of a pear ( fig. 53 ) , and after another minute or less the stage of fig. 45 was repeated , with the difference that the smaller half was this time in front .
The hinder part then " slithered " up along the other and the banner form was again arrived at .
All the above changes took place in a period of about 14 minutes from the instant of first union .
This time the banner was fairly permanent , and after following it for a little while longer we left it , as we knew exactly what the subsequent behaviour would be from numerous earlier observations .
The above described remarkable behaviour of the two conjugants\#151 ; or , at least , of 364 Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
the two essential portions , since the cytoplasm is apparently indiscriminately divided at times \#151 ; is not at all an exceptional occurrence ; indeed , we think something similar usually happens during the earlier stages of syngamy .
On other occasions we have seen both the " slithering " of two slightly unequal portions and the almost complete separation of the two halves which remained connected only by a delicate thread , just as in the above case .
The joining up again in such a case occurs , we consider , as a result of the rapid contraction of the connecting thread , in just the same manner as the lagging portion of protoplasm was suddenly hauled up into the main body of the Cercoboclo ( cf. above ) .
Further examples of these early conjugation stages are given in figs. 54-57 , from different zygotes .
Even after the banner has been definitely formed for as long as an hour , we have seen it suddenly break down into two portions , one behind the other .
Different forms assumed by the banner , when at length permanent , are seen in figs. 58-62 .
As time goes on the banner gradually loses its square shape and becomes oblong ( fig. 63 ) , the two parallel flagella also gradually coming to lie nearer to the mid-dorsal line , and so to each other .
Most probably , by this time , the maturation processes of the gamete-nuclei are completed .
Further , the two flagella are slowly shortening in length .
In its earlier period , however , the banner is still capable of performing the active , undulating ( free ) movement , as well as the more characteristic gliding movement .
From an oblong the banner now turns to an oval\#151 ; really , of course , to an ovoid\#151 ; wdiich is ultimately almost as deep as it is broad .
We have followed a banner from the time when it had about just become permanent ( e.g. as in figs. 61 and 62 ) , up to the definite oval ( fig. 65 ) , the time occupied being about three hours .
In an observation-preparation in which syngamy has been going on for some time , banners and ovals are quite numerous ; this will be apparent when it is remembered that every cyst formed is a zygote-cyst .
At a later stage the two flagella have become much shorter ( figs. 66 and 67 ) , and the flagellate moves very sluggishly ; it soon ceases to displace itself and only performs little turning and " knicking " movements .
The protoplasm becomes contracted and somewhat denser , and the oval nearly always leaves the under surface of the cover-slip by this time and sinks to the lower level of the medium .
The flagella are at length quite absorbed and the body becomes spherical .
We have followed an individual oval with two flagella close together , as in fig. 65 , up to the time when it became a motionless , rounded body at the lower level , and this change took about six hours .
The whole process up to this stage takes from 9 to 10 hours , according to our actual observations ; of course , this may not be the minimum period required , though we should say it is not far from it .
Observations on the Life-Cycle of Helkesimastix fsecicola .
365 We have not actually watched a motionless , rounded zygote through its encystment period , but we noted the position of the above individual and of others at the same time late in the evening , and on looking at them next morning we found they had become the very characteristic " shrinkage " cysts ( figs. 68 and 69 ) .
The cyst-wall has been formed and the protoplasm has continued to contract , so that a space is left at one side between the body and the wall .
We are inclined to think it is a space containing no liquid , because it is always very clear .
The space appears of different size , according to the age of the cyst ( figs. 68 and 69 ) .
When small the space is spherical , but when it attains its maximum size it is lens-shaped .
A curious fact is that after the cyst has shown this condition of shrinkage for some time\#151 ; the period may vary from two days or less up to longer\#151 ; the space disappears entirely and the cyst becomes a permanent cyst , as described at the commencement of this account .
This finishes the life-cycle .
Biological Notes.\#151 ; As , in a normal culture , the great majority of the flagellates form cysts , one could not have a more convincing and readily obtained demonstration of the regular occurrence of syngamy in the life-cycle of these simple dung-flagellates .
Although all the above observations on Helkesimastix have been described either from plate-cultures or from observation-preparations , this is only because , on account of the more rapid multiplication and development under those conditions , the individuals are very much more abundant than in a simple , moistened dung-culture , and therefore the different stages are more readily found .
We have not the slightest doubt that the life-cycle is exactly similar under the more natural conditions , the only difference being that it is probably slower , i.e. a longer period may elapse before the whole life-cycle is completed .
Tor instance , it is usually three or four days before this flagellate is observed in the active condition in a dilute dung-culture , and it may persist in the active condition for a week or more before forming cysts .
The reason for this is , we consider , because the watery medium is not nearly so rich in nourishment as the beef-extract medium .
The bacterial development is not nearly so great as in the latter case , nor is the multiplication of the flagellates so abundant .
Therefore , on the one hand , a somewhat longer time most probably elapses before the cyst-wall is dissolved ; and , on the other hand , the medium does not so soon become excessively full of the " toxic " products , or whatever chemical substances induce the cessation of multiplication and the tendency to conjugation , whether formed from the flagellates , or the bacteria , or from both .
As , however , we are at present engaged in making a full study of this interesting flagellate from a biological standpoint we will not further discuss these questions at present .
366 Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
Loss of Syngamy and the Power to form Cysts.\#151 ; We have discovered one very interesting and important fact , however , which deserves to be mentioned .
By sub-culturing the flagellates* while they are still all in the active condition , i.e.before cysts have been developed , on to a fresh plate of the same medium , we have found that multiplication will continue for a further period ( of two days or so ) , before conjugation sets in .
The important fact , however , is that , after a certain number of sub-cultures have been thus made , the flagellates , although they are still able to thrive and multiply actively on each successive transference , no longer undergo syngamy , followed by cyst-formation , and have , so far as can be seen , entirely lost the power to do so , at all events under the existing conditions . !
Up to the present time ( October ) , we have thus kept a " strain " for more than 20 weeks , through 35 sub-cultures on to fresh " constant " medium , and in each sub-culture the flagellates have multiplied enormously .
In the sub-cultures up to the fourth a very few isolated cysts were still found .
But in none of the subsequent ones has a single cyst ever been seen .
The flagellates , instead of conjugating and forming great numbers of cysts , as usual , degenerate and die off , only a small proportion remaining still alive .
Yet , at the end of 10 or 12 days , sometimes more , a few individuals still persist alive , and the transference to a fresh sub-culture can be Successfully made .
The flagellates which remain alive are rounded , granular , very sluggish forms , with the flagellum sticking straight out and almost motionless ; but , in the fresh medium , they are capable of quick recuperation and renewed multiplication .
During the earlier weeks , after this new strain was fairly started , we never observed any biflagellate forms , comparable to the conjugating pairs above described , although thousands of individuals must have passed under our eyes .
Then , during the 8th and 9th weeks , respectively , we observed on two occasions , in different observation preparations , a single biflagellate individual .
After this , we looked carefully for others , at intervals , but no more were seen until the 14th week ( in the 23rd sub-culture ) , when another was observed .
Since that time , in most of the sub-cultures , a few biflagellate individuals ( banner-like forms ) have been found and the number of these has gradually tended to become less infrequent , although they still constitute a very small * This experimental work , it may be mentioned , has been carried out upon another species of Helkesimastiv , with which we have worked latterly .
This form ( II .
major , n. sp. ) also occurs both in sheep and goats , and differs only from H. fcecicola in the larger size of the adult individuals and also of the cysts , rendering it more convenient for study .
The life-cycle is similar in both .
t We tried the experiment of re-introducing the non-conjugating " strain " into the original dung-culture ( sterilised ) with the object of seeing whether the abilitypto undergo syngamy would be restored .
This also gave negative results .
Observations on the Life-Cycle of Helkesimastix feecicola .
367 proportion only of the total number of flagellates present .
We have been able , on several occasions recently , to follow the farther behaviour of these forms , and have ascertained the important fact that they always divide , and never become rounded-off and form cysts .
Moreover , we have observed a certain number of these forms which were very large and possessed not two , but three , or even four or five flagella ( and nuclei , as ascertained from permanent preparations ) .
We have seen an individual with three flagella , and also one with five , actually divide into two rather unequal portions ; in the former case , one half had two flagella and the other one , and in the latter case , one had three and the other two flagella ( and nuclei ) .
We will assume , for the present , that these forms represent a union of two or more individuals , rather than a long-delayed division.* When we first observed the isolated instances of biflagellate forms in this strain , we considered that they represented true syngamy , which , although occurring very rarely was apparently still " latent .
" We now know ( 1 ) that these " unions " may be either binary or multiple , apparently more or less indifferently ; ( 2 ) that these forms always divide , the nuclei and flagella being apportioned out , often unequally , between the two halves , and that they never proceed to form cysts\#151 ; the invariable sequel , normally , to conjugation in ; ( 3 ) and , lastly , that these forms , or the products of their division , are equally incapable of persisting ultimately ( unless , of course , they are transferred to fresh medium ) .
Hence , we feel certain that none of these unions represent true syngamy .
Bearing in mind the extremely plastic character of the cytoplasm of this creature , we consider these unions are due to physical , rather than " vital " factors , and result from continued cultivation and the condition of the culture at the time .
In our opinion , these peculiar cases do not invalidate the following general conclusion which we wish to draw from our observations on this non-conjugating strain .
The " intensive " culture of this flagellate has resulted in the loss of the power to undergo true syngamy and to form cysts .
The further existence of this " strain " is now dependent on continued transference to fresh " constant " medium .
Minchin , in his 'Introduction to the Protozoa ' ( London , Arnold , 1912 ) , in the chapter on " Syngamy and Sex , " has pointed out ( p. 161 ) that " intensive culture , whether artificial or * We cannot yet write with certainty upon this point , because we think , from the evidence obtained so far , it is possible that these forms represent a long-drawn-out mode of division , due to the effect of the cultural conditions , in which the nucleus and flagellum divide , it may be more than once , before the cytoplasm does .
There are other cases known of a corresponding behaviour under conditions which are probably not quite normal ; an example which is particularly interesting in relation to the present discussion is that of multiple longitudinal fission in certain lethal trypanosomes .
t Dr. H. M. Woodcock and Mr. G. Lapage .
natural , as in parasitism , seems to diminish the necessity for syngamy " ; from this stage it is only a step further to find the capacity for syngamy lost .
Bearing on the Case of the Trypanosomes.\#151 ; It appears to us that this remarkable experimental fact has an important bearing on the question of the trypanosomes , and may afford an explanation of why conjugation ( or syngamy ) in these parasites , though assiduously sought , has not been observed in any authenticated instance .
Probably it never does occur , because these forms have lost the power to conjugate .
Just as , in the case of the above-discussed strain of Helkesimastix , the rapid , successive transferences to fresh , nontoxic medium at first removed the necessity for conjugation ( and encystment ) , and then have led to the loss of the ability to undergo syngamy ( and , in this case , to form cysts ) , so a similar development has very likely occurred in the trypanosomes and related forms .
As is obvious , the conditions of life in these parasites are readily comparable to those above described .
The trypanosomes live in a rich nutritive medium , namely blood , in the vertebrate , or blood in various stages of digestion , in the invertebrate host ; and , as is well known , rapid multiplication in both hosts is usually found .
In the invertebrate we get , more or less frequently , replenishment , i.e. a fresh supply of the " constant " medium ( namely blood ) , together with removal of toxic products .
In the blood of the vertebrate , where there is at first abundance of medium , but not any " fresh " supply , it is very interesting to note that , in the case at all events of many lethal trypanosomes , which , as Minchin has pointed out , are not yet completely adapted to their hosts , we get the production eventually\#151 ; after active multiplication has gone on for some time\#151 ; of the well known " involution " forms .
These , at any rate in our opinion , as in that of many French workers , simply die off after a time , if left to themselves ; but they are capable of being " rejuvenated " and of again multiplying actively if passed into a fresh host .
And a similar state of affairs has been met with by one of us in cultures of avian trypanosomes .
Now it seems to us that these two cases present a very close parallel to what we have observed in Helkesimastix .
It may be pointed out , also , that the non-conjugating strain of Helkesimastix is the result of an abruptly originating and more or less artificial intensive culture , whereas in the case of trypanosomes and allied parasitic flagellates the corresponding conditions have operated naturally and over a long duration of time .
On the supposition that syngamy has now been entirely lost in the hsemo-flagellates , the explanation which we here put forward is much more probable , we think , than the idea , which has also been suggested , that the stimulus afforded by the change of hosts is accountable for the loss of this process in the trypanosomes .
We have always considered that there are two or Observations on the Life-Cycle Helkesimastix fsecicola .
369 three serious objections to this latter view .
Briefly stated , these are as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Trypanosomes can be successfully inoculated , without limit , into fresh vertebrate hosts , i.e.the same " constant " physiological medium , without showing ( so far as is known ) conjugation .
( 2 ) Binucleate flagellates of insects alone ( e.g. certain leptomonads ) have no alternation of hosts , and syngamy is apparently just as little likely to be found in these parasites as in the trypanosomes themselves .
( We are inclined to think , indeed , that syngamy may have been lost in the ancestral trypanosome form , before ever it acquired an alternation of hosts .
) Lastly , we have the important case of the Hnemosporidia , intracellular parasites which all have the change of hosts , and in all of which conjugation regularly occurs .
Why should not the physiological stimulus afforded by the change of environment have influenced them also ?
And , on the other hand , there is no reason to doubt that the primitive ancestors of the trypanosomes underwent a process of syngamy , since it appears likely that many of these lowly proto-monadine forms , among which the origin of the trypanosomes is to be sought , possess this feature .
We consider , therefore , developing the ideas expressed by Cropper and Drew ( iloc.cit .
) along the line indicated by the experimental facts adduced above , that the loss of syngamy is due to the surfeit of nutrition , together with the nontoxicity of the medium , that is to say , the absence ( in excess ) of the chemical substance or substances to which the flagellates react normally by the cessation of multiplication and the onset of conjugation .
It will be readily apparent , from what has been just pointed out , how these factors have prevailed in the case of the trypanosomes .
And we think that a similar explanation can be applied , not only to the case of insectan Binucleata , but probably to that of many other parasitic flagellates as well .
VOL. LXXXVI1I.\#151 ; 15 .
370 Observations on the Life-Cycle of Helkesimastix f'secicola .
EXPLANATION OF FIGURES .
All the drawings , with the exception of fig. 12 , are from sketches made directly at the time of the living observation .
Fig. 12 is a camera lucida drawing of an individual fixed with osmic acid vapour .
The magnification throughout is approximately 2250 times linear , arrived at after a comparison of other individuals fixed with osmic .
We are indebted to Miss Rhodes for kindly tinting and sharpening up the drawings .
In our figures , we have shown the nucleus or omitted it , according as to whether we were able to observe its position in the particular individual represented , or not .
As mentioned in the text , we were unable to make out satisfactorily the nuclei in life , in the conjugating pairs .
Note with regard to the flagellum :\#151 ; As mentioned in the text , the length of the flagellum varies in individuals other wise similar ' .
In order to save space , we have drawn the flagellum usually short , except in fig. 10 ; the flagellum of the individual of fig. 12 is , of course , natural length .
Plate 13 .
Figs. 1-3.\#151 ; Cysts .
Figs. 4-7.\#151 ; Excystation and the development of the flagellum .
Figs. 8-11.\#151 ; Different forms of individuals .
Fig. 12.\#151 ; Individual fixed with osmic acid vapour , to show that the flagellum is not actually attached by any membrane to the body .
Figs. 13 and 14.\#151 ; To illustrate the behaviour of the flagellum in turning of the body .
Figs. 15-17.\#151 ; Rupture of a large contractile vacuole and form-changes of the body .
Figs. 18-21.\#151 ; To illustr ate a mode of turning of a stationary individual ( see text ) .
Figs. 22-26 , 27-31 , and 32 and 33.\#151 ; Different instances of division ( binary fission ) .
Plate 14 .
Figs. 34-36.\#151 ; Different forms predominating in a culture about to start conjugation .
Figs. 37-62.\#151 ; The wdrole process of conjugation ( syngamy ) , showing the different form changes during the progress of the fusion .
Figs. 63-67.\#151 ; The gradual contraction of the body and absorption of the two flagella of the zygote , prior to encystment .
Figs. 68 and 69.\#151 ; The cysts as first for med , so-called " shrinkage " cysts , with a vacuole or space of varying size .
Woodcock and Roy .
Soc. ProcB , vol. 88 .
Plate 13 .
Woodcock and Roy .
Soc. Proc. , B , 88 , Plate 14 .

