1877 .
] Prof. Tyndall on Hermetically-sealed Flasks . .
487 and accuracy from tides in which the greatest single coefficient is 3\#163 ; nches .
) 4 .
The mean retard of semidiurnal high water on the moon 's transit is ibout 16h 4m , which may be taken as the establishment at Malta .
5 .
The results for the diurnal tides ( whose coefficient in the mean is ibout 03 inch ) are somewhat discordant , but appear to exhibit a periodical law of coefficients , such as is proper for them .
, The last point for examination is , the character of the non-tidal undu-ations already mentioned .
These , in many cases , far exceed the tidal mediations .
Similar undulations at Swansea had attracted attention many years ago ( ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitan , ' " Tides and Waves " ; and private correspondence with J. W. G. Gutch , Esq. ) .
Lately , however , the undulations of the same character in the Swiss lakes , called Seiches , have been carefully examined by Dr. Eorel ; and there appears to be no room for doubt that the non-tidal oscillations at Malta are genuine Seiches .
They appear to be formed by waves reflected from opposite shores , producing stationary waves between them .
The shores concerned in forming the Seiches of Malta seem to be those of Africa and Sicily .
A Table , exhibiting the principal elements of their intervals and their magnitudes , is given in the paper .
II .
" Observations on Hermetically-sealed Flasks opened on the Alps .
" In a Letter to Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. By Professor Tyndall , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received September 21 , 1877 .
Alp Lusgen , 18th September , 1877 . .
My Dear Huxley , \#151 ; Though the question of " Spontaneous Generation " is , I believe , practically set at rest for the scientific world , you may possibly deem the following facts of sufficient interest to be communicated to the Royal Society .
| I brought with me this year to the Alps sixty hermetically-sealed flasks , containing infusions of beef , mutton , turnip , and cucumber , which had been boiled for five minutes in London and sealed during ebullition .
They were packed in sawdust , and when opened at the Bel-alp the drawn-out and sealed ends of six of them were found broken off .
These six flasks were filled with organisms , the remaining ones were pelluci and free from life .
1 Two or three of them were subsequently broken by accident , but tor six weeks fifty of the flasks remained perfectly clear .
^ \ At the end of this time I took twenty-three of them into a shed containing some fresh hay , and there snipped off their sealed en s wit a pair of pliers .
The air of the hay-loft entered to fill the vacuum produced by the boiling in London .
Twenty-seven other flasks were taken immediately afterwards to the edge of a declivity , which might almost be Dr. A. Downs and Mr. T. P. Blunt on [ Dec. 6 , called a precipice , with a fall of about a thousand feet .
A gentle breeze was blowing from the mountains , which were partly snow-covered , and partly of bare rock , towards the precipice .
Taking care to cleanse my pliers in the flame of a spirit-lamp , and to keep my body to leeward of the flasks , I snipped off their sealed ends .
The two groups of flasks were then placed in our own little kitchen , where the temperature varied from about 65 ' to 90 ' Fahrenheit .
Result:\#151 ; Twenty-one of the twenty-three flasks opened on the hay-loft are filled with organisms ; two of them remain clear .
All the flasks opened on the edge of the precipice remain as clear as distilled water .
Not one of them has given way .
This is a striking confirmation of the experiments of Pasteur upon the Mer de G-lace .
Ever , my dear Huxley , Yours faithfully , John Tyndall .
III .
" Researches on the Effect of Light upon Bacteria and other Organisms .
" By Arthur Downs , M.D. , S.Sc .
Cert .
Cantab .
, and Those .
P. Blunt , M.A. ( Oxon .
) , F.C.S. Communicated by J. Marshall , F.R.S. , Professor of Anatomy to the Royal Academy of Arts .
Received October 18 , 1877 .
The investigation to which the following communication relates was undertaken by us with the view of ascertaining , first , whether light could be shown to exert any appreciable influence , favourable or the reverse , upon the development of Bacteria and other organisms in certain of those solutions which afford a suitable medium for their appearance and increase .
We feel , justified in thus presenting our earlier researches and the conclusions drawn from them , by considering that every fact , however small , which tends to throw light upon the life-history of these organisms is of importance as bearing upon questions of the highest moment and most varied interest .
In the experiments about to be recorded the contents of the tubes were in most cases examined under a high power , and the turbidity , when such occurred , was invariably found to be occasioned by swarms of Bacteria .
The best index of the development of the Bacteria we found to be the degree of turbidity and the time of its commencement .
Obs. 1 .
April 24.\#151 ; Eight ordinary thin test-tubes were cleansed with strong sulphuric acid and thoroughly rinsed with tap-water .
They were then partially filled with freshly made unboiled Pasteur 's solution , the exact composition of which is given in the Appendix ( A ) .
Four of the tubes were encased in thin sheet-lead so as entirely to exclude light , and

