518 MR. GL H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION OF A VISCOUS SPHEROID , Now by comparing this with the small term due to the secular change of figure of the earth , we see that it is fairly negligeable , being of the same order of magnitude as that term .
As far as it goes , however , it tends to increase the obliquity of the ecliptic .
S 22 .
The change of obliquity and tidal friction due to an annular satellite .
Conceive the ring to be rotating round the planet with an angular velocity let its radius be c , and its mass per unit length of its arc 7^ , so that its mass is Let cl be the length of the arc measured from some point fixed in the ring up to the element chi ; and let Sit be the longitude of the fixed point in the ring at the time t. Let SV be the tide-generating potential due to the element \#151 ; 8Z .
Then we have by ( 5 ) Where the suffixes to the functions indicate that is to be written for SI .
Then integrating all round the ring from 1=0 to l=2n it is clear that \#151 ; \#151 ; ;= \#151 ; p2q2 sin2 0 cos 2 ( \lt ; \#163 ; \#151 ; n)-\-2pq\#151 ; ( f ) sin 6 cos 6 cos ( \lt ; f\gt ; \#151 ; n + ( i\#151 ; cos2 0)i(l\#151 ; 6p\#165 ; ) which is the tide-generating potential of the ring .
Hence , as in Section 2 , the form of the tidally-distorted spheroid is given by ( 9 ) , save that E1 } E2 , E\ , E'z , E " are all zero .
Also , as in that section , the moments of the forces which the tidally-distorted spheroid exerts on the element of ring are \#151 ; ^r ) ' ^:c ' , \lt ; ^c ' ' w^ere \#163 ; r ' rir\gt ; are Pu^ eclual 1 ' the rectangular coordinates of the element of ring , whose annular coordinate is l. Now if x , y , z are the direction cosines of the element , equations ( 7 ) are simply modified by SI being written S2-\-l .
Hence the couples due to one element of ring may be found just as the whole couples were found before , and the integrals of the elementary couples from 1=0 to 2tt are the desired couples due to the whole ring .
Now a little consideration shows that the results of this integration may be written down at once by putting Elt E2 , E\ , E\ , E " zero in ( 15 ) , ( 16 ) , and ( 21 ) .
Thus in order to determine the change of obliquity and the tidal friction due to an annular satellite , we have simply the expressions ( 33 ) and ( 34 ) , save that rr , must be replaced byir2 .
It thus appears that an annular satellite causes tidal friction in its planet , and that the obliquity of the planet 's axis to the ring tends to diminish , but both these AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY O THE EARTH .
effects are evanescent with the obliquity .
Since this ring only raises the tides which are called sidereal semi-diurnal and sidereal diurnal , and since we see by ( 57 ) , Section 14 , that tidal reaction is independent of those tides , it follows that there is no tangential force on the ring tending to accelerate its linear motion .
If , however , the arc of the ring be not of uniform density , there is a slight tendency for the lighter parts to gain on the heavier , and the heavier parts become more remote from the planet than the lighter .
S 23 .
Double tidal reaction .
Throughout the whole of this investigation the moon has been supposed to be merely an attractive particle , but there can be no doubt but that , if the earth was plastic , the moon was so also .
To take a simple case , I shall now suppose that both the earth and moon are homogeneous viscous spheres revolving round their common centre of inertia , and that the moon is rotating on her own axis with an angular velocity to , and that their axes are parallel and perpendicular to the plane of their orbit .
Then the whole of the argument with respect to the earth as disturbed by the moon , may be transferred to the case of the moon as disturbed by the earth .
All symbols which apply to the moon will be distinguished from those which apply to the earth by an accent .
Then from ( 21 ) or ( 43 ) we have \amp ; C ' !
T'3 * =1\#151 ; sm and the equation which gives the lunar tidal friction is da)jt'3 .
, ^ = -i^sm4,1 . . . . .
( 89 ) Now , was ir and ^ 5a w So that t/ 2 / wa ?
\3 T2 S ' wW 0 ( 90 ) Also and therefore 'Cy_v/ a'* 0 vjcft jBt 3 T2 wza .
, ~Fr==i ~7T~ , sin 4e C ^ g w'V 1 3 x 520 %MR .
G. H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION O A VISCOUS SPHEROID , Now the force on the moon tangential to her orbit , results from a double tidal reaction .
By the method employed in Section 14 , the tangential force due to the earth 's tides is T M -----sin 4c , 2 r g 1 and similarly the tangential force due to the moon 's tides is T ' j\#174 ; C t2 w*a .
, \#151 ; = ~--------TT- , sin 4e i r It g wia and the whole tangential force is ( T+T ' ) .
Hence following the argument of that section , the equation of tidal reaction becomes ill ^ dt 2g%0 Then taking the moon 's apparent radius as 16 ' , and the ratio of the earth 's mass to that of the moon as 82 , we have ^- , = 3'567 and ~= 1 '806 ( so that taking iv as 5^ , the yfici specific gravity of the moon is 3 ) , and hence \#151 ; \#151 ; =11'64 .
At first sight it would appear from this that the effect of the tides in the moon was nearly twelve times as important as the effect of those in the earth , as far as concerns the influence on the moon 's orbit , and hence it would seem that a grave oversight has been made in treating the moon as a simple attractive particle ; a little consideration will show , however , that this is by no means the case .
Suppose that v , v are the coefficients of viscosity of the moon and earth respectively ; then the only tides which exist in each body being those of which the speeds are 2(co\#151 ; /2 ) , 2 ( n\#151 ; fl ) in the moon and earth respectively , 'UlftcL sin 4e , -f-\#151 ; \#151 ; sin 4e/ , 1 1 w^a 1 But and hence " , 19t/ ( ft\gt ; \#151 ; /2 ) , , 19 tan 2e , =---\#151 ; - and tan 2ei=------------1 g'alw ' 1 gavi / wwy a'aw =gaw[ \#151 ; 9 a \wa j .w\#151 ; flv'/ wa \3 tan2\#163 ; \gt ; =^ ten2\#163 ; i \#151 ; ) =41'10 .
It is also almost certain that v must for a w'a ' ) It will be found that AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
long time be greater than v , because the moon being a smaller body must have stiffened quicker than the earth .
Hence unless co\#151 ; is very much less than n\#151 ; e\ must be larger than Therefore if in the early stages of development the earth had a small viscosity , it is probable that the effects of the moon 's tides on her own orbit must have had a much more important influence than had the tides in the earth .
I shall now show , however , that this state of things must probably have had so short a duration as not to seriously affect the investigation of this paper .
By ( 89 ) and ( 90 ) we have , as the equation which determines the rate of tidal friction reducing the moon 's rotation round her axis , day j r3 / wa ?
\3 dt s g sin 4e'x Now ( \#151 ; - ) =12,148 ; and hence , for the same values of e\ and the moon 's rotation \wa*J round her axis is reduced 12,000 times as rapidly as that of the earth round its axis , and .
therefore in a very short period the moon 's rotation round her axis must have been reduced to a sensible identity with the orbital motion .
As to becomes very nearly equal to SI , sin 4e/ ] becomes very small .
Hence the term in the equation of tidal reaction dependent on the moon 's own tides must have become rapidly evanescent .
Now while this shows that the main body of our investigation is unaffected by the lunar tide , there is one slight modification of them to which it leads .
In Section 18 we traced back the moon to the initial condition , when her centre was 10,000 miles from the earth 's centre .
If lunar tidal friction had been included , this distance would have been increased ; for the coefficient of in the biquadratic ( viz. : 11,727 ) would have to be diminished by \#151 ; v(\amp ; \gt ; \#151 ; co0 ) .
Now -^s is very nearly ToVoth , and the unit of time being the year , it follows that we should have to suppose an enormously rapid primitive rotation of the moon round her axis , to make any sensible difference in the configuration of the two bodies when her centre of inertia moved as though rigidly connected with the earth 's surface .
The supposition of two viscous globes moving orbitally round their common centre of inertia , and one having a congruent and the other an incongruent axial rotation , would lead to some very curious results .
S 24 .
Secular contraction of the earth* If the earth be contracting as it cools , it follows , from the principle of conservation of moment of momentum , that the angular velocity of rotation is being increased .
Sir WiLniAM Thomson has , however , shown that the contraction ( which probably now only takes place in the superficial strata ) cannot be sufficiently rapid to perceptibly counteract the influence of tidal friction at the present time .
* Rewritten in July , 1879 .
3x2 The enormous height of the lunar mountains compared to those in the earth seems , however , to give some indications that a cooling celestial orb must contract by a perceptible fraction of its radius after it has consolidated .
* Perhaps some of the contraction might be due to chemical combinations in the interior , when the heat had departed , so that the contraction might be deep-seated as well as superficial .
It will be well , therefore , to point out how this contraction will influence the initial condition to which we have traced back the earth and moon , when they were found rotating as parts of a rigid body in a little more than 5 hours .
Let C , C0 be the moment of inertia of the earth at any time , and initially .
Then the equation of conservation of moment of momentum becomes SrM'-m And the biquadratic of Section 18 which gives the initial configuration becomes *Mi+m ) .
^r'*+^=o / I I ( Id-/ 4 ) Now The required root of this equation is very nearly equal to xs=f2 ; hence fl is nearly equal to ( 1 But in Section 18 , when C was equal to C0 , it was nearly equal to ( 1 -\-[x)n0.Therefore on the present hypothesis , the value * Suppose a sphere of radius a to contract until its radius is a + \#163 ; a , but that , its surface being incompressible , in doing so it throws up n conical mountains , the radius of whose bases is and their height h , and let b be large compared with h. The surface of such a cone is 7r\amp ; -v/ A2+\amp ; 2='r(\amp ; 2+ Hence the excess of the surface of the cone above the area of the base is and 47ra2=4:r(a-t-\#163 ; a)2+^\#187 ; 7r7t2 .
Therefore a 16\a/ Then suppose we have a second sphere of primitive radius which contracts and throws up the same number of mountains ; then similarly \#151 ; aiL\lt ; ^ \#151 ; \#151 ; = ( w/ " ^0W ^ ^ese ^w0 sP^eres the earth and moon .
The height of the highest lunar mountain is 23,000 feet ( Grant 's ' Physical Astron. , p. 229 ) , and the height of the highest terrestrial mountain is 29,000 feet ; therefore we may take Also \#151 ; = -2729 ( Herschel 's 'Astron .
, ' Section 404 ) .
Therefore \#151 ; of '2729='344 , and ha ha / Aa \ _.^gg or / f ?
V_8'45 .
Hence \#151 ; -f-\#151 ; =81 ; whence it appears that , if both lunar and terrestrial \h a/ \ha / a ' a mountains are due to the crumpling of the surfaces of those globes in contraction , the moon 's radius has been diminished by about eight times as large a fraction as the earth 's .
This is , no doubt , a very crude way of looking at the subject , because it entirely omits volcanic action from consideration , but it seems to justify the assertion that the moon has contracted much more than the earth , since both bodies solidified .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
of 12 as given in that section must be multiplied by \#166 ; \#151 ; ; and the periodic time must be multiplied by \#151 ; .
But in this initial state C is greater than C0 ; hence the periodic time when the two bodies move round as a rigid body is longer , and the moon is more distant from the earth , if the earth has sensibly contracted since this initial configuration .
If , then , the theory here developed of the history of the moon is the true one , as I believe it is , it follows that the earth cannot have contracted since this initial state by so much as to considerably diminish the effects of tidal friction , and it follows that Sir William Thomson 's result as to the present unimportance of the contraction must have always been true .
If the moon once formed a part of the earth we should expect to trace the changes back until the two bodies were in actual contact .
But it is obvious that the data at our disposal are not of sufficient accuracy , and the equations to be solved are so complicated , that it is not to be expected that we should find a closer accordance , than has been found , between the results of computation and the result to be expected , if the moon was really once a part of the earth .
It appears to me , therefore , that the present considerations only negative the hypothesis of any large contraction of the earth since the moon has existed .
PART III .
Summary and discussion of The general object of the earlier or preparatory part of the paper is sufficiently explained in the introductory remarks .
The earth is treated as a homogeneous spheroid , and in what follows , except where otherwise expressly stated , the matter of which it is formed is supposed to be purely viscous .
The word " earth " is thus an abbreviation of the expression " a homogeneous rotating viscous spheroid ; " also wherever numerical values are given they are taken from the radius , mean density , mass , \amp ; c. , of the earth .
The case is considered first of the action of one tide-raising body , namely , the moon .
To simplify the problem the moon is supposed to move in a circular orbit in the ecliptict\#151 ; that plane being the average position of the lunar orbit with respect to the * This part has been altered in accordance with the several additions and alterations occurring above .
The results of subsequent investigations have modified the interpretation to be put on several of the results here obtained .
I have , moreover , had the advantage of discussing several points with Sir William Thomson.\#151 ; July 9 , 1879 .
\#166 ; j* The effect of neglecting the eccentricity of the moon 's orbit is , that we underestimate the efficiency of the tidal effects .
Those effects vary as the inverse sixth power of r the radius vector , and if T be the earth 's axis .
The case becomes enormously more complex if we suppose the moon to move in an inclined eccentric orbit with revolving nodes .
The consideration of the secular changes in the inclination of the lunar orbit and of the eccentricity will form the subject of another investigation .
The expression for the moon 's tide-generating potential is shown to consist of 13 simple tide-generating terms , and the physical meaning of this expansion is given in the note to Section 8 .
The physical causes represented by these 13 terms raise 13 simple tides in the earth , the heights and retardations of which depend on their speeds and on the coefficient of viscosity .
The 13 simple tides may be more easily represented both physically and analytically as seven tides , of which three are approximately semi-diurnal , three approximately diurnal , and one has a period equal to a half of the sidereal month , and is therefore called the fortnightly tide .
Then by an approximation which is sufficiently exact for a great part of the investigation , the semi-diurnal tides may be grouped together , and the diurnal ones also .
Hence the earth may be regarded as distorted by two complex tides , namely , the semidiurnal and diurnal , and one simple tide , namely , the fortnightly .
The absolute heights and retardations of these three tides are expressed by six functions of their speeds and of the coefficient of viscosity ( Sections 1 and 2 ) .
When the form of the distorted spheroid is thus given , the couples about three axes fixed in the earth due to the attraction of the moon on the tidal protuberances are found .
It must here be remarked that this attraction must in reality cause a tangential stress between the tidal protuberances and the true surface of the mean oblate spheroid .
This tangential stress must cause a certain very small tangential flow* and hence must ensue a very small diminution of the couples .
The diminution of couple is here neglected , and the tidal spheroid is regarded as being instantaneously rigidly connected with the rotating spheroid .
The full expression for the couples on the earth are long and complex , but since the nutations to which they give rise are exceedingly minute , they may be much abridged by the omission of all terms except such as can give rise to secular changes in the precession , the obliquity of the ecliptic , and the diurnal rotation .
The terms retained represent that there are three couples independent of the time , the first of which tends to make the earth rotate about an fl.-ris in the equator which is always 90 ' from the nodes of the moon s orbit : this couple affects the obliquity to the ecliptic ; second , there is a couple about an axis in periodic time of the moon , the average value of p- is rpJ If c be the mean distance and e the eccen1 l + 3e^+\#151 ; e4 tricity of the orbit , this integral will be found equal to ^ ( 1 ^ eccen^c^y sma^ average value of ^ is + if e is ^ this is of *6 .
There are obviously forces tending to modify the eccentricity of the moon 's orbit .
* See Part I. of the next paper .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY O THE EARTH .
the equator which is always coincident with the nodes : this affects the precession ; third , there is a couple about the earth 's axis of rotation , and this affects the length of the day ( Sections 3 , 4 , and 5 ) .
All these couples vary as the fourth power of the moon 's orbital angular velocity , or as the inverse sixth power of her distance .
These three couples give the alteration in the precession due to the tidal movement , the rate of increase of obliquity , and the rate at which the diurnal rotation is being diminished , or in other words the tidal friction .
The change of obliquity is in reality due to tidal friction , - but it is convenient to retain the term specially for the change of rotation alone .
It appears that if the bodily tides do not lag , which would be the case if the earth were perfectly fluid or perfectly elastic , then there is no alteration in the obliquity , nor any tidal friction ( Section 7 ) .
The alteration in the precession is a very small fraction of the precession due to the earth considered as a rigid oblate spheroid .
I have some doubts as to whether this result is properly applicable to the case of a perfectly fluid spheroid .
At any rate , Sir William Thomson has stated , in agreement with this result , that a perfectly fluid spheroid has a precession scarcely differing from that of a perfectly rigid one .
Moreover , the criterion which he gives of the negligeability of the additional terms in the precession in a closely analogous problem appears to be almost identical with that found by me ( Section 7 ) .
I am not aware that the investigation on which his statement is founded has ever been published .
The alteration in the precession being insignificant , no more reference will be made to it .
This concludes the analytical investigation as far as concerns the effects on the disturbed spheroid , where there is only one disturbing body .
The sun is now ( Section 8 ) introduced as a second disturbing body .
Its independent effect on the earth may be determined at once by analogy with the effect of the moon .
But the sun attracts the tides raised by the moon , and vice versed .
Now notwithstanding that the periods of the sun and moon about the earth have no common multiple , yet the interaction is such as to produce a secular alteration in the position of the earth 's axis and in the angular velocity of its diurnal rotation .
A physical explanation of this curious result is given in the note to Section 8 .
I have distinguished this from the separate effect of each disturbing body , as a combined effect .
The combined effects are represented by two terms in the tide-generating potential , one of which goes through its period in 12 sidereal hours , and the other in a sidereal day* ; the latter being much more important than the former for moderate obliquities to the ecliptic .
Both these terms vanish when the earth 's axis is perpendicular to the plane of the orbit .
As far as concerns the combined effects , the disturbing bodies may be conceived to be * These combined effects depend on the tides which are designated as K1 and K3 in the British Association 's Report on Tides for 1872 and 1876 , and which I have called the sidereal semi-diurnal and diurnal tides .
Eor a general explanation of this result see the abstract of this paper in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' No. 191 , 1878 .
526 MR. G. R. DAEWlR OR TREE PRECESSION OF A VISCOUS SPHEROID , replaced by two circular rings of matter coincident with their orbits and equal in mass to them respectively .
The tidal friction due to these rings is insignificant compared with that arising separately from the sun and moon .
But the diurnal combined effect has an important influence in affecting the rate of change of obliquity .
The combined effects are such as to cause the obliquity of the ecliptic to diminish , whereas the separate effects on the whole make it increase\#151 ; at least in general ( see Section 22 ) .
The relative importance of all the effects may be seen from an inspection of Table III .
, Section 15 .
Section 11 contains a graphical analysis of the physical meaning of the equations , giving the rate of change of obliquity for various degrees of viscosity and obliquity .
Plate 36 , figures 2 and 3 , refer to the case where the disturbed planet is the earth , and the disturbing bodies the sun and moon .
This analysis gives some remarkable results as to the dynamical stability or instability of the system .
It will be here sufficient to state that , for moderate degrees of viscosity , the position of zero obliquity is unstable , but that there is a position of stability at a high obliquity .
For large viscosities the position of zero obliquity becomes stable , and ( except for a very close approximation to rigidity ) there is an unstable position at a larger obliquity , and again a stable one at a still larger one.* These positions of dynamical equilibrium do not rigorously deserve the name , since they are slowly shifting in consequence of the effects of tidal friction ; they are rather positions in which the rate of change of obliquity becomes of a higher order of small quantities .
It appears that the degree of viscosity of the earth which at the present time would cause the obliquity of the ecliptic to increase most rapidly is such that the bodily semidiurnal tide would be retarded by about 1 hour and 10 minutes ; and the viscosity which would cause the obliquity to decrease most rapidly is such that the bodily semidiurnal tide would be retarded by about 2S hours .
The former of these two viscosities was the one which I chose for subsequent numerical application , and for the consideration of secular changes in the system .
Plate 36 , fig. 4 ( Section 11 ) , shows a similar analysis of the case where there is only one disturbing satellite , which moves orbitally with one-fifth of the velocity of rotation of the planet .
This case differs from the preceding one in the fact that the position of zero obliquity is now unstable for all viscosities , and that there is always one other , and only one other position of equilibrium , and that is a stable one .
This shows that the fact that the earth 's obliquity would diminish for large viscosity is due to the attraction of the sun on the lunar tides , and of the moon on the solar tides .
It is not shown by these figures , but it is the fact that if the motion of the satellite * For a general explanation of some part of these results , see the abstract of this paper in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' No. 191,1878 .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
relatively to the planet be slow enough ( viz. : the month less than twice the day ) , the obliquity will diminish .
This result , taken in conjunction with results given later with regard to the evolution of satellites , shows that the obliquity of a planet perturbed by a single satellite must rise from zero to a maximum and then decrease again to zero .
If we regard the earth as a satellite of the moon , we see that this must have been the case with the moon .
Plate 36 , fig. 5 ( Section 12 ) , contains a similar graphical analysis of the various values which may be assumed by the tidal friction .
As might be expected , the tidal friction always tends to stop the planet 's rotation , unless indeed the satellite 's period is less than the planet 's day , when the friction is reversed .
This completes the consideration of the effect on the earth , at any instant , of the attraction of the sun and moon on their tides ; the next subject is to consider the reaction on the disturbing bodies .
Since the moon is tending to retard the earth 's diurnal rotation , it is obvious that the earth must exercise a force on the moon tending to accelerate her linear velocity .
The effect of this force is to cause her to recede from the earth and to decrease her orbital angular velocity .
Hence tidal reaction causes a secular retardation of the moon 's mean motion .
The tidal reaction on the sun is shown to have a comparatively small influence on the earth 's orbit and is neglected ( Sections 14 and 19 ) .
The influence of tidal reaction on the lunar orbit is determined by finding the disturbing force on the moon tangential to her orbit , in terms of the couples which have been already found as perturbing the earth 's rotation ; and hence the tangential force is found in terms of the rate of tidal friction and of the rate of change of obliquity .
It appears that the non-periodic part of the force , on which the secular change in the moon 's distance depends , involves the lunar tides alone .
By the consideration of the effects of the perturbing force on the moon 's motion , an equation is found which gives the rate of increase of the square root of the moon 's distance , in terms of the heights and retardations of the several lunar tides ( Section 14 ) . .
Besides the interaction of the two bodies which affects the moon 's mean motion , there is another part which affects the plane of the lunar orbit ; but this latter effect is less important than the former , and in the present paper is neglected , since the moon is throughout supposed to remain in the ecliptic .
The investigation of the subject will however , lead to interesting results , since a complete solution of the problem of the obliquity of the ecliptic cannot be attained without a simultaneous tracing of the secular changes in the plane of the lunar orbit .
It appears that the influence of the tides , here called slow semi-diurnal and slow diurnal , is to increase the moon 's distance from the earth , whilst the influence of the fast semi-diurnal , fast diurnal , and fortnightly tide tends to diminish the moon 's distance ; also the sidereal semi-diurnal and diurnal tides exercise no effects in this respect .
The two tides which tend to increase the moon 's distance are much larger than the others , so that the moon in general tends to recede from the earth .
The increase of distance is , of course , accompanied by an increase of the moon 's periodic time , and hence there is in general a true secular retardation of the moon 's motion .
But this change is accompanied by a retardation of the earth 's diurnal rotation , and a terrestrial observer , taking the earth as his clock , would conceive that the angular velocity of an ideal moon , which was undisturbed by tidal reaction , was undergoing a secular acceleration .
The apparent acceleration of the ideal undisturbed moon must considerably exceed the true retardation of the real disturbed moon , and the difference between these two will give an apparent acceleration .
It is thus possible to give an equation connecting the apparent acceleration of the moon 's motion and the heights and retardations of the several bodily tides in the earth .
Now there is at the present time an unexplained secular acceleration of the moon of about 4 " per century , and therefore if we attribute the whole of this to the action of the bodily tides in the earth , instead of to the action of ocean tides , as was done by Adams and Delaunay , we get a numerical relation which must govern the actual heights and retardations of the bodily tides in the earth at the present time .
This equation involves the six constants expressive of the heights and retardations of the three bodily tides , and which are determined by the physical constitution of the earth .
No further advance can therefore be made without some theory of the earth 's nature .
Two theories are considered .
First , that the earth is purely viscous .
The result shows that the earth is either nearly fluid\#151 ; which we know it is not\#151 ; or exceedingly nearly rigid .
The only traces which we should ever be likely to find of such a high degree of viscosity would be in the fortnightly ocean tide ; and even here the influence would be scarcely perceptible , for its height would be '992 of its theoretical amount according to the equilibrium theory , whilst the time of high water would be only accelerated by six hours and a half .
It is interesting to note that the indications of a fortnightly ocean tide , as deduced from tidal observations , are exceedingly uncertain , as is shown in a preceding paper , where I have made a comparison of the heights and phases of such small fortnightly tides as have hitherto been observed .
And now ( July , 1879 ) Sir William Thomson has informed me that he thinks it very possible that the effects of the earth s rotation may be such as to prevent our trusting to the equilibrium theory to give even approximately the height of the fortnightly tide .
He has recently read a paper on this subject before the Royal Society of Edinburgh .
With the degree of viscosity of the earth , which gives the observed amount of secular acceleration to the moon , it appears that the moon is subject to such a true secular retardation that at the end of a century she is 3 " ' 1 behind the place in her orbit which she would have occupied if it were not for the tidal reaction , whilst the earth , considered as a clock , is losing 13 seconds in the same time .
This rate of retardation of the earth * See the Appendix to my paper on the " Bodily Tides , " \amp ; c. , Phil. Trans. , Part I. , 1879 .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
is such that an observer taking the earth as his clock would conceive a moon , which was undisturbed by tidal reaction , to be 7"'l in advance of her place at the end of a century .
But the actual moon is 3"'l behind her true place , and thus our observer would suppose the moon to be in advance 7'1 \#151 ; 3*1 or 4"at the end of the century .
Lastly , the obliquity of the ecliptic is diminishing at the rate of 1 ' in 500 million years .
The other hypothesis considered is that the earth is very nearly perfectly elastic .
In this case the semi-diurnal and diurnal tides do not lag perceptibly , and the whole of the reaction is thrown on to the fortnightly tide , and moreover there is no perceptible tidal frictional couple about the earth 's axis of rotation .
From this follows the remarkable conclusion that the moon may be undergoing a true secular acceleration of motion of something less than 3"*5 per century , whilst the length of day may remain almost unaffected .
Under these circumstances the obliquity of the ecliptic must be diminishing at the rate of 1 ' in something like 130 million years .
This supposition leads to such curious results , that I investigated what state of things we should arrive at if we look back for a very long period , and I found that 700 million years ago the obliquity might have been 5 ' greater than at present , whilst the month would only be a little less than a day longer .
The suppositions on which these results are based are such that they necessarily give results more striking than would be physically possible .
The enormous lapse of time which has to be postulated renders it in the highest degree improbable that more than a very small change in this direction has been taking place , and moreover the action of the ocean tides has been entirely omitted from consideration .
The results of these two hypotheses show what fundamentally different interpretations may be put to the phenomenon of the secular acceleration of the moon .
Sir William Thomson also has drawn attention to another disturbing cause in the fall of meteoric dust on to the earth.* Under these circumstances , I cannot think that any estimate having any pretension to accuracy can be made as to the present rate of tidal friction .
Since the obliquity of the ecliptic , the diurnal rotation of the earth , and the moon 's distance change , the whole system is in a state of flux ; and the next question to be considered is to determine the state of things which existed a very long time ago ( Part II .
) .
This involved the integration of three simultaneous differential equations ; the mathematical difficulties were , however , so great , that it was found impracticable to obtain a general analytical solution .
I therefore had to confine myself to a numerical solution adapted to the case of the earth , sun , and moon , for one particular degree of viscosity of the earth .
The particular viscosity was such that , with the present values of the day and month , the time of the lunar semi-diurnal tide was retarded by 1 hour and 10 minutes ; the greatest possible lagging of this tide is * 'Glasgow Geological Society , ' Vol. III .
Address " On " Geological Time .
" 530 MR. a. H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION OP A VISCOUS SPHEROID 3 hours , and therefore this must be regarded as a very moderate degree of viscosity .
It was chosen because initially it makes the rate of change of obliquity a maximum , and although it is not that degree of viscosity which will make all the changes proceed with the greatest possible rapidity , yet it is sufficiently near that value to enable us to estimate very well the smallest time which can possibly have elapsed in the history of the earth , if changes of the kind found really have taken place .
This estimate of time is confirmed by a second method , which will be referred to later .
The changes were tracked backwards in time from the present epoch , and for convenience of diction I shall also reverse the form of speech\#151 ; e.# .
, a true loss of energy as the time increases will be spoken of as a gain of energy as we look backwards .
I shall not enter at all into the mathematical difficulties of the problem , but shall proceed at once to comment on the series of tables at the end of Section 15 , which give the results of the solution .
The whole process , as traced backwards , exhibits a gain of kinetic energy to the system ( of which more presently ) , accompanied by a transference of moment of momentum from that of orbital motion of the moon and earth to that of rotation of the earth .
The last column but one of Table IV .
exhibits the fall of the ratio of the two moments of momentum from 4'01 down to '44 .
The whole moment of momentum of the moon-earth system rises slightly , because of solar tidal friction .
The change is investigated in Section 19 .
Looked at in detail , we see the day , month , and obliquity all diminishing , and the changes proceeding at a rapidly increasing rate , so that an amount of change which at the beginning required many millions of years , at the end only requires as many thousands .
The reason of this is that the moon 's distance diminishes with great rapidity ; and as the effects vary as the square of the tide-generating force , they vary as the inverse sixth power of the moon 's distance , or , in physical language , the height of the tides increases with great rapidity , and so also does the moon 's attraction .
But there is a counteracting principle , which to some extent makes the changes proceed slower .
It is obvious that a disturbing body will not have time to raise such high tides in a rapidly rotating spheroid as in one which rotates slowly .
As the earth s rotation increases , the lagging of the tides increases .
The first column of Table I. shows the angle by which the crest of the lunar semi-diurnal tide precedes the moonwe see that the angle is almost doubled at the end of the series of changes , as traced backwards .
It is not quite so easy to give a physical meaning to the other columns , although it might be done .
In fact , as the rotation increases , the effect of each tide rises to a maximum , and then dies away ; the tides of longer period reach their maximum effect much more slowly than the ones of short period .
At the point where I have found it convenient to stop the solution ( see Table IV .
) , the semi-diurnal effect has passed its maximum , the diurnal tide has just come to give its maximum effect , whilst the fortnightly tide has not nearly risen to that point .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
As the lunar effects increase in importance ( when we look backwards ) , the relative value of the solar effects decreases rapidly , because the solar tidal reaction leaves the earth 's orbit sensibly unaffected ( see Section 19 ) , and thus the solar effects remain nearly constant , whilst the lunar effects have largely increased .
The relative value of the several tidal effects is exhibited in Tables II .
and III .
Table IV .
exhibits the length of day decreasing to a little more than a quarter of its present value , whilst the obliquity diminishes through 9 .
But the length of the month is the element which changes to the most startling extent , for it actually falls to -fifth.of its primitive value .
It is particularly important to notice that all the changes might have taken place in 57 million years ; and this is far within the time which physicists admit that the earth and moon may have existed .
It is easy to find a great many causes for changes in the planetary system ; but it is in general correspondingly hard to show that they are competent to produce any marked effects , without exorbitant demands on the efficiency of the causes and on lapse of time .
It is a question of great interest to geologists to determine whether any part of these changes could have taken place during geological history .
It seems to me that this question must be decided by whether or not a globe , such as has been considered , could have afforded a solid surface for animal life , and whether it might present a superficial appearance such as we know it .
These questions must , I think , be answered in the affirmative , for the following reasons .
The coefficient of viscosity of the spheroid with which the previous solution deals is given by the formula tan 35 ' ( see Section 11 , ( 40 ) ) , when gravitation units of force are used .
This , when turned into numbers , shows that 2'055 X 107 grams weight are required to impart unit shear to a cubic centimeter block of the substance in 24 hours , or 2,055 kilogs .
per square centimeter acting tangentially on the upper face of a slab one centimeter thick for 24 hours , would displace the upper surface through a millimeter relatively to the lower , which is held fixed .
In British units this becomes , \#151 ; 13^ tons to the square inch , acting for 24 hours on a slab an inch thick , displaces the upper surface relatively to the lower through one-tenth of an inch .
It is obvious that such a substance as this would be called a solid in ordinary parlance , and in the tidal problem this must be regarded as a rather small viscosity .
It seems to me , then , that we have only got to postulate that the upper and cool surface of the earth presents such a difference from the interior that it yields with extreme slowness , if at all , to the weight of continents and mountains , to admit the possibility that the globe on which we live may be like that here treated of .
If , therefore , astronomical facts should confirm the argument that the world has really gone through changes of the- kind here investigated , I can see no adequate reason for assuming that the whole process was pre-geological .
Under these circumstances it must be admitted that the obliquity to the ecliptic is now probably slowly decreasing ; 532 MR. Gk H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION OF A VISCOUS SPHEROID , that a long time ago it was perhaps a degree greater than at present , and that it was then nearly stationary for another long time , and that in still earlier times it was considerably less .
* The violent changes which some geologists seem to require in geologically recent times would still , I think , not follow from the theory of the earth 's viscosity .
According to the present hypothesis ( and for the moment looking forward in time ) , the moon-earth system is , from a dynamical point of view , continually losing energy from the internal tidal friction .
One part of this energy turns into potential energy of the moon 's position relatively to the earth , and the rest developes heat in the interior of the earth .
Section 16 contains the investigation of the amount which has turned to heat between any two epochs .
The heat is estimated by the number of degrees Fahrenheit , which the lost energy would be sufficient to raise the temperature of the whole earth 's mass , if it were all applied at once , and if the earth had the specific heat of iron .
The last column of Table IV .
, Section 15 , gives the numerical results , and it appears therefrom that , during the 57 million years embraced by the solution , the energy lost suffices to heat the whole earth 's mass 1760 ' Fahr. It would appear at first sight that this large amount of heat , generated internally , must seriously interfere with the accuracy of Sir William Thomson 's investigation of the secular cooling of the earth ; + but a further consideration of the subject in the next paper will show that this cannot be the case .
There are other consequences of interest to geologists which flow from the present hypothesis .
As we look at the whole series of changes from the remote past , the ellipticity of figure of the earth must have been continually diminishing , and thus the polar regions must have been ever rising and the equatorial ones falling ; but , as the ocean always followed these changes , they might quite well have left no geological traces .
The tides must have been very much more frequent and larger , and accordingly the rate of oceanic denudation much accelerated .
The more rapid alternations of day and night J would probably lead to more sudden and violent storms , and the increased rotation of the earth would augment the violence of the trade winds , which in their turn would affect oceanic currents .
Thus there would result an acceleration of geological action .
The problem , of which the solution has just been discussed , deals with a spheroid of * In my paper " On the Effects of Geological Changes.on the Earth 's Axis , " Phil. Trans. 1877 , p. 271 , 1 arrived at the conclusion that the obliquity had been unchanged throughout geological history .
That result was obtained on the hypothesis of the earth 's rigidity , except as regards geological upheavals .
The result at which I now arrive affords a warning that every conclusion must always be read along with the postulates on which it is based .
f * Not .
Phil. , ' Appendix .
J At the point where the solution stops there are just 1,300 of the sidereal days of that time in the year , instead of 366 as at present .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY O THE EARTH .
constant viscosity ; but there is every reason to believe that the earth is a cooling body , and has stiffened as it cooled .
We therefore have to deal with a spheroid whose viscosity diminishes as we look backwards .
A second solution is accordingly given ( Section 17 ) where the viscosity is variable ; no definite law of diminution of viscosity is assumed , however , but it is merely supposed that the viscosity always remains small from a tidal point of view .
This solution gives no indication of the time which may have elapsed , and differs chiefly from the preceding one in the fact that the change in the obliquity is rather greater for a given amount of change in the moon 's distance .
There is not much to say about it here , because the two solutions follow closely parallel lines as far as the place where the former one left off .
The first solution was not carried further , because as the month approximates in length to the day , the three semi-diurnal tides cease to be of nearly equal frequencies , and so likewise do the three diurnal tides ; hence the assumption on which the solution was founded , as to their approximately equal speeds , ceases to be sufficiently accurate .
In this second solution all the seven tides are throughout distinguished from one another .
At about the stage where the previous solution stops the solar terms have become relatively unimportant , and are dropped out .
It appears that ( still looking backwards in time ) the obliquity will only continue to diminish a little more beyond the point it had reached when the previous method had become inapplicable .
For when the month has become equal to twice the day , there is no change of obliquity ; and for yet smaller values of the month the change is the other way .
This shows that for small viscosity of the planet the position of zero obliquity is dynamically stable for values of the month which are less than twice the day , while for greater values it is unstable ; and the same appears to be true for very large viscosity of the planet ( see the foot-note on p. 500 ) .
If the integration be carried back as far as the critical point of relationship between the day and month , it appears that the whole change of obliquity since the beginning is 9\#163 ; ' .
The interesting question then arises\#151 ; Does the hypothesis of the earth 's viscosity afford a complete explanation of the obliquity of the ecliptic ?
It does not seem at present possible to give any very conclusive answer to this question ; for the problem which has been solved differs in many respects from the true problem of the earth .
The most important difference from the truth is in the neglect of the secular changes of the plane of the lunar orbit ; and I now ( September , 1879 ) see reason to believe that that neglect will make a material difference in the results given for the obliquity at the end of the third and fourth periods of integration in both solutions .
It will not , therefore , be possible to discuss this point adequately at present ; but it will be well to refer to some other points in which our hypothesis must differ from reality .
I do not see that the heterogeneity of density and viscosity would make any very material difference in the solution , because both the change of obliquity and the tidal 534 MR. Gr .
H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION OP A VISCOUS SPHEROID , friction would be affected pari passii , and therefore the change of obliquity for a given amount of change in the day would not be much altered .
Although the effects of the contraction of the earth in cooling would be certainly such as to render the changes more rapid in time , yet as the tidal friction would be somewhat counteracted , the critical point where the month is equal to twice the day would be reached when the moon was further from the earth than in my problem .
I think , however , that there is reason to believe that the whole amount of contraction of the earth , since the moon has existed , has not been large ( Section 24 ) .
There is one thing which might exercise a considerable influence favourable to change of obliquity .
We are in almost complete ignorance of the behaviour of semi-solids under very great pressures , such as must exist in the earth , and there is no reason to suppose that the amount of relative displacement is simply proportional to the stress and the time of its action .
Suppose , then , that the displacement varied as some other function of the time , then clearly the relative importance of the several tides might be much altered .
Now , the great obstacle to a large change of obliquity is the diurnal combined effect ( see Table IV .
, Section 15 ) ; and so any change in the law of viscosity which allowed a relatively greater influence to the semi-diurnal tides would cause a greater change of obliquity , and this without much affecting the tidal friction and reaction .
Such a law seems quite within the bounds of possibility .
The special hypothesis , however , of elastico-viscosity , used in the previous paper , makes the other way , and allows greater influence to the tides of long period than to those of short .
This was exemplified where it was shown that the tidal reaction might depend principally on the fortnightly tide .
The whole investigation is based on a theory of tides in which the effects of inertia are neglected .
Now it will be shown in Part III .
of the next paper that the effect of inertia will , be to make the crest of the tidal spheroid lag more for a given height of tide than results from the theory founded on the neglect of inertia .
An analysis of the effect produced on the present results , by the modification of the theory of tides introduced by inertia , is given in the next paper .
On the whole , we can only say at present that it seems probable that a part of the obliquity of the ecliptic may be referred to the causes here considered ; but a complete discussion of the subject must be deferred to a future occasion , when the secular changes in the plane of the lunar orbit will be treated .
The question of the obliquity is now set on one side , and it is supposed that when the moon has reached the critical point ( where the month is twice the day ) the obliquity to the plane of the lunar orbit was zero .
In the more remote past the obliquity had no tendency to alter , except under the influence of certain nutations , which are referred to at the end of Section 17 .
The manner in which the moon 's periodic time approximates to the day is an inducement to speculate as to the limiting or initial condition from which the earth and moon started their course of development .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
So long as there is any relative motion of the two bodies there must be tidal friction , and therefore the moon 's period must continue to approach the day .
It would be a problem of extreme complication to track the changes in detail to their end , and fortunately it is not necessary to do so .
The principle of conservation of moment of momentum , which has been used throughout in tracing the parallel changes in the moon and earth , affords the means of leaping at once to the conclusion ( Section 18 ) .
The equation expressive of that principle involves the moon 's orbital angular velocity and the earth 's diurnal rotation as its two variablesand it is only necessary to equate one to the other to obtain an equation , which will give the desired information .
As we are now supposed to be transported back to the initial state , I shall henceforth speak of time in the ordinary way ; there is no longer any convenience in speaking of the past as the future , and vice versed .
The equation above referred to has two solutions , one of which indicates that tidal friction has done its work , and the other that it is just about to begin .
Of the first I shall here say no more , but refer the reader to Section 18 .
The second solution indicates that the moon ( considered as an attractive particle ) moves round the earth as though it were rigidly fixed thereto in 5 hours 36 minutes .
This is a state of dynamical instability ; for if the month is a little shorter than the day , the moon will approach the earth , and ultimately fall into it ; but if the day is a little shorter than the month , the moon will continually recede from the earth , and pass through the series of changes which were traced backwards .
Since the earth is a cooling and contracting body , it is likely that its rotation would increase , and therefore the dynamical equilibrium would be more likely to break down in the latter than the former way .
The continuous solution of the problem is taken up at the point where the moon has receded from the earth so far that her period is twice that of the earth 's rotation .
I have calculated that the heat generated in the interior of the earth in the course of the lengthening of the day from 5 hours 36 minutes to 23 hours 56 minutes would be sufficient , if applied all at once , to heat the whole earth 's mass about 3000 ' Fahr. , supposing the earth to have the specific heat of iron ( see Section 16 ) .
A rough calculation shows that the minimum time in which the moon can have passed from the state where it had a period of 5 hours 36 minutes to the present state , is 54 million years , and this confirms the previous estimates of time .
This periodic time of the moon corresponds to an interval of only 6,000 miles between the earth 's surface and the moon 's centre .
If the earth had been treated as heterogeneous , this distance , and with it the common periodic time both of moon and earth , would be still further diminished .
These results point strongly to the conclusion that , if the moon and earth were ever molten viscous masses , then they once formed parts of a common mass .
We are thus led at once to the inquiry as to how and why the planet broke up .
536 MR. Gr .
H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION OP A VISCOUS SPHEROID , The conditions of stability of rotating masses of fluid are unfortunately unknown , and it is therefore impossible to do more than speculate on the subject .
The most obvious explanation is similar to that given in Laplace 's nebular hypothesis , namely , that the planet being partly or wholly fluid , contracted , and thus rotated faster and faster until the ellipticity became so great that the equilibrium was unstable , and then an equatorial ring separated itself , and the ring finally conglomerated into , a satellite .
This theory , however , presents an important difference from the nebular hypothesis , in as far as that the ring was not left behind 240,000 miles away from the earth , when the planet was a rare gas , but that it was shed only 4,000 or 5,000 miles from the present surface of the earth , when the planet was perhaps partly solid and partly fluid .
This view is to some extent confirmed by the ring of Saturn , which would thus be a satellite in the course of formation .
It appears to me , however , that there is a good deal of difficulty in the acceptance of this view , when it is considered along with the numerical results of the previous investigation .
At the moment when the ring separated from the planet it must have had the same linear velocity as the surface of the planet ; and it appears from Section 22 that such a ring would not tend to expand from tidal reaction , unless its density varied in different parts .
Thus we should hardly expect the distance from the earth of the chain of meteorites to have increased much , until it had agglomerated to a considerable extent .
It follows , therefore , that we ought to be able to trace back the moon 's path , until she was nearly in contact with the earth s surface , and was always opposite the same face of the earth .
Now this is exactly what has been done in the previous investigation .
But there is one more condition to be satisfied , namely , that the common speed of rotation of the two bodies should be so great that the equilibrium of the rotating spheroid should be unstable .
Although wTe do not know what is the limiting angular velocity of a rotating spheroid consistent with stability , yet it seems improbable that a rotation in a little over 5 hours , with an ellipticity of one-twelfth would render the system unstable .
Now notwithstanding that the data of the problem to be solved are to some extent uncertain , and notwithstanding the imperfection of the solution of the problem here given , yet it hardly seems likely that better data and a more perfect solution would largely affect the result , so as to make the common period of revolution of the two bodies in the initial configuration very much less than 5 hours .
Moreover we obtain no help from the hypothesis that the earth has considerably contracted since the shedding of the satellite , but rather the reverse ; for it appears from Section 24 that if the earth has contracted , then the common period of revolution of the two bodies m the * This is illustrated by my paper on " The Secular Effects of Tidal Friction , " ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' No. 197 , 1879 , where it appears that the " line of momentum " does not cut the " curve of rigidity at a very sma angle , so that a small error in the data would not make a very large one in the solution .
AND ON THE REMOTE HISTORY OF THE EARTH .
initial configuration must have been slower , and the moon more distant from the earth .
This slower revolution would correspond with a smaller ellipticity , and thus the system would probably be less nearly unstable .
The following appears to me at least a possible cause of instability of the spheroid when rotating in about 5 hours .
Sir William Thomson has shown that a fluid spheroid of the same mean density as the earth would perform a complete gravitational oscillation in 1 hour 34 minutes .
The speed of oscillation varies as the square root of the density , hence it follows that a less dense spheroid would oscillate more slowly , and therefore a spheroid of the same mean density as the earth , but consisting of a denser nucleus and a rarer surface , would probably oscillate in a longer time than 1 hour 34 minutes .
It seems to be quite possible that two complete gravitational oscillations of the earth in its primitive state might occupy 4 or 5 hours .
But if this were the case , then the solar semi-diurnal tide would have very nearly the same period as the free oscillation of the spheroid , and accordingly the solar tides would be of enormous height .
Does it not then seem possible that , if the rotation were fast enough to bring the spheroid into anything near the unstable condition , then the large solar tides might rupture the body into two or more parts ?
In this case one would conjecture that it would not be a ring which would detach itself .
It seems highly probable that the moon once did rotate more rapidly round her own axis than in her orbit , and if she was formed out of the fusion together of a ring of meteorites , this rotation would necessarily result .
In Section 23 it is shown that the tidal friction due to the earth 's action on the moon must have been enormous , and it must necessarily have soon brought her to present the same face constantly to the earth .
This explanation was , I believe , first given by Helmholtz .
In the process , the inclination of her axis to the plane of her orbit must have rapidly increased , and then , as she rotated more and more slowly , must have slowly diminished again .
Her present aspect is thus in strict accordance with the results of the purely theoretical investigation .
It would perhaps be premature to undertake a complete review of the planetary system , so as to see how far the ideas here developed accord with it .
Although many facts which could be adduced seem favourable to their acceptance , I will only refer to two .
The satellites of Mars appear to me a most remarkable confirmation of these views .
Their extreme minuteness has prevented them from being subject to any perceptible tidal reaction , just as the minuteness of the earth compared with the sun has prevented the earth 's orbit from being perceptibly influenced ( see Section 19 ) ; they thus remain as a standing memorial of the primitive periodic time of Mars round his axis .
Mars , on the other hand , has been subjected to solar tidal friction .
This case , however , deserves to be submitted to numerical calculation .
The other case is that of Uranus , and this appears to be somewhat unfavourable to the theory ; for on account of the supposed adverse revolution of the satellites , and of the high inclinations of their orbits , it is not easy to believe that they could have 3 z 2 538 ME .
Gh H. DARWIN ON THE PRECESSION OF A VISCOUS SPHEROID , ETC .
arisen from a planet which ever rotated about an axis at all nearly perpendicular to the ecliptic .
The system of planets revolving round the sun present so strong a resemblance to the systems of satellites revolving round the planets , that we are almost compelled to believe that their modes of development have been somewhat alike .
But in applying the present theory to explain the orbits of the planets , we are met by the great difficulty that the tidal reaction due to solar tides in the planet is exceedingly slow in its influence ; and not much help is got by supposing the tides in the sun to react on the planet .
Thus enormous periods of time would have to be postulated for the evolution .
If , however , this theory should be found to explain the greater part of the configurations of the satellites round the planets , it would hardly be logical to refuse it some amount of applicability to the planets .
We should then have to suppose that before the birth of the satellites the planets occupied very much larger volumes , and possessed much more moment of momentum than they do now .
If they did so , we should not expect to trace back the positions of the axes of the planets to the state when they were perpendicular to the ecliptic , as ought to be the case if the action of the satellites , and of the sun after their birth , is alone concerned .
Whatever may be thought of the theory of the viscosity of the earth , and of the large speculations to which it has given rise , the fact remains that nearly all the effects which have been attributed to the action of bodily tides would also follow , though probably at a somewhat less rapid rate , from the influence of oceanic tides on a rigid nucleus .
The effect of oceanic tidal friction on the obliquity of the ecliptic has already been considered by Mr. Stone , in the only paper on the subject which I have yet seen.* His argument is based on what I conceive to be an incorrect assumption as to the nature of the tidal frictional couple , and he neglects tidal reaction ; he finds that the effects would be quite insignificant .
This result would , I think , be modified by a more satisfactory assumption .
* Ast .
Soc. Monthly Notices , March 8 , 1867 .
Phil. Trans. 1879 36 ru- .
Pi 9- two oUsi\gt ; vurbvn^[ bodies .
'\amp ; C ' UtK .

