A Study of the Phyto-Plankton of the Atlantic .
2G9 " Study of the Phyto-Plankton of the Atlantic .
" By George MURRAY , F.R.S. , Keeper of Botany , British Museum , and V. H. Blackman , B.A. , F.L.S. , Hutchinson Student , St. John 's College , Cambridge , and Assistant , Department of Botany , British Museum .
Received March 28 , \#151 ; Read May 12,1898 .
( Abstract .
) , 'he authors record their observations on a year 's work in collect- " phyto-plankton along a track from the Channel to Panama \#171 ; ried out by Captains Milner and Rudge , and also during one v age to Brazil by Captain Tindall .
They also give the results of f , lir own observations on living material at sea .
The material was oained by the pumping method .
) no of the objects of their work was to determine , if possible , the uure of the Coccospheres and Rhabdospheres .
They describe the nute structure of the calcareous plates or coccoliths and rhabdo-1 is , and record the existence in the Coccospheres of a single central gsen chromatophore , separating into two on the division of the cell , 'ey regard Coccosphseracese as a group of Unicellular Algae , and t:y define the group , the limits of the genera and species .
The Geospheres and Rhabdospheres from the surface are compared with t\gt ; se of the deep-sea deposits and their identity established .
They are fo compared with geological coccoliths and rhabdoliths from various i Is , and many objects regarded by geologists as true coccoliths and nbdoliths are rejected .
A large number of new Peridiniaceas were ' covered and are formally described and figured .
No specific ngnoses of marine Peridiniaceae have previously been published , :thors of species having depended on figures , and , at most , a few 'irds of description .
It is hoped that the present systematic treat-*mt of the subject will conduce to greater order in the group .
ie authors record the occurrence of all the forms in seven tabular 'itements , one for each collecting voyage .
Observations of the diatoms and Cyanophyceae were also made , and *e briefly treated .
A study was also made of the species of Pyrocystis , of which they 'scribe a new one .
The facts they record tend , in their opinion , to .ufirm the view originally expressed of it by Dr. John Murray , its scriber , that it is a unicellular alga , doubts having been entertained 1 the accuracy ot this opinion by several biologists .
x VOL. LX Hi .

