]\gt ; .
A. E. Tutton .
A rative raphical depends have been made by Mr. W. Hugo , senior assistant at Kew Observatory , to whose care and exactitude the research owes a very great .
The reduction of the observations is also mainly due to .
Hugo .
severtd of the special experiments Dr. J. A Harker has given valuable assistance , and valious operations have been mnch facilitated by means of apparatus devised by him .
The main } of checking the reductions and the various calculations requisite discussing the observations have been done by myself .
I have also en a considerable number of observations , and in discussing varlous sources of trouble I speak from personal experience , supplemented of course by frequent exchange of ideas with Dr. Harker and .
Hugo .
At various stages of the investigation I have had vahlable advice and assistance from Professor Carey Foster and Mr. W. N. Shaw , to whom the imtiation of the is largely due .
The original cost of the apparatus was partly defrayed by a grant of XI00 from the Governlment Grant Fund , and a contribution of X120 received last year from the Gunning Fund towards this and other cognate work undertaken by the Kew Observatory Committee .
" " A carativeCstallg.aphical Study of the of the Series \mdash ; Salts in which is Zinc By A. E. , B.Sc. , F.II .
S. Beceived JMarch March 15 , 1900 .
( Extended Abstract .
) In two communications to the Chemical Society , the author presented the results of a detailed study of twenty-two salts of the series of monoclinic donble sulphates ) , ) , in hich was represented by potassium , rubidium , and caesium , and by magnesium , zinc , iron , manganesc , nickel , , coppel cadminm .
The first of these memoirs deaIt with the phology of the , and the second with properties .
The present investigation refers to the less-known logons d selenates , in which is reprcsented by the tlkali met potassinm ( tomic weight 39 ) , rubidium ( weight ) ( atomic wcight ) .
The work on the group ining zinc ) collpleted , the resuIts are now ) inolnded in their well-known tion the ssium s of the group .
* Jonrn . .
Soc. ' 1893 , , p. 33 1896 , ' Ann. de Chim .
et dc Phys , p. 5 .
Study of th Double of the .
59 The rnbidium and caesium salts have never been investigated , and the author been to find any evidence of their preparation .
The section-plates prisms employed in the optical work were prepared by meaus of the author 's cutting and grinding goniometer , in the nner described in previous memoirs .
The new special sting aratns described to the Eoyal Society in the memoir in the ' Phil. Tr , for 1899 , p. 461 , has proved of the greatest service in the prcp tiou of the prisms .
All the prisms were obtained with its by one adjustment , instead of two ( one for each of the two required .
A very useful addition to it has been made in the shape of pair of special -holders , besides those referred to on pags 460 of the memoir just quoted .
One of these new holders is represented in .
The upper portion , the stem by which it is attached to the lower end of the -adjusting apparatus , carries two vertical grooves instead of only one , FIG 1 so that the plane within the crystal which is desired to isect the angle of the prism always be larily roughly nged right angles to the adjusting segment , tever be the situatio1l of the most convenient direction of gripping .
The stem passes down into a thicker solid portion , urrounded by a closely fitting hollow cylinder capable of movement for somewhat over fixation at any position , by means of slits crent levels and two clumping screws passing through them into the solid .
This enables the necessary final azimuth adjustment of the to be effected , so that the particnlar bisecting plane referl.cd to can ) sct exactly to the required tion , the of the goniometer and its duated a movements .
The ripper is attached rigidly to the underside of the movable cylinder .
Its two prongs itlranged to be drawn together by means of screw manipulated with a milled-headed key , and the gripping lower part is thickened and padded with chamois leather .
The use of of these holders , which onIy diffcr in the size of the gripper so as to different sized crystals , oids the llse of wax , hich may cause efflorence , or , of the crystal .
prism employed was prepared by the aid of this ilstrument the faces were to one of the three plancs of the optical ellipsoid ( indicatrix ) , and its edge to of the two of the trix lying in this plane .
It therefore yielded two of the three refractive indices dircctly , mely , hose correspondirtg to vibrations to the two of the optical indicntrix lying in the bisecting plane .
The were in the following mallncr:\mdash ; A ) tity of 60 Mr. A. .
Tutton .
A rave Caphical the alkalino selenate crystals , prepared as described in the author 's memoir on the normal alkaline selenates , to yield after ttddition to the ctdculated amount of the -selenate sufficient of the double salt for all the pnrposes of the investigation , was dissolved in the minimnm of distilled water .
An equal molecular proportion of zinc sulphate crystals was also weighed out , dissolved in distilled , and precipitated by a tion of sodium carbonate .
The precipitate of basic zinc carbonate was isolated by decantation and prolonged washing with hot water , and subsequently dissolved in a solution of pure selenic acid , whose strength had previously been tely determined by titration with a solution of pure anhydrous sodinm carbonate of known strength .
Sufficient of the acid was run in upon the zinc carbonate to provide for one drop of excess , as this prevents the possibility of a basic salt forming after addition of the selenate of the -metal .
The solutions of the two selenates were mixed and allowed to crystallise spontaneously , taking all the pre- cautions to avoid disturbancs enumerated in the previous memoirs .
The spherical projection given on p. 343 of the double sulphate memoir applies cqually to the double selenates .
PoTAbSIUlI Z A tion oi ' the zinc in a quantity of the crystals employed gave the following result : grammc yielded , corrcsponding to per cent. of zinc .
Calculated per cent. Ten excellent crystals were employed , derived from several different crops .
: Short prismatic to axlgle\mdash ; Ratio of : Forms ) ; The results of the ments givcn in the panying ) The bits oserved resembled those exhibited in the given in the mcmoir : ithout fig. 8 without the , fig. 20 , fig. 21 , fig. 24 , fig. 25 .
* ' Journ. Chem. Soc lS97 , p. 8 of of th Series Angles of Potassinm Zinc Selenate .
sured .
001 : 001 : os number of ucnts , 462 .
62 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
parative C The and faces were usually bobh well defined ; the hemi-pyramid was occasionally well developed , but more usually small , while small .
faces were only observed on two orystals .
The general type exhibited and as the main faces , , always large , and occasional generally rather smaller than the faces .
Topsoe and Christiansen give for the ratio of the ttXCS and the axial angle , : 0.5075 and .
The measurements lvers made by Topsoe in the ear 1870 .
year There is an..excellent cleavage parallel to the faces of , as stated by Topsoe and Christiansen .
\mdash ; The following four independent determinations were made : Weight of salt employed .
5.5358 hIean Dist\mdash ; Combination of the axial ratios and axial prevlotlsly given , with the molecular volume , affords the distance ratios:\mdash ; : : : Optics .
rientat of of Optical .\mdash ; The plane of the optic ( optic binormals is the plane of symmetry .
The sign of the refraction is positive .
Two section gro1md parallel to the symmetry plane afforded the following extinction angles , relative to the to the Section 1 The direction is behind the normal , to the axis .
This axis of the optical ellipsoid trix ) is the second ofof the .
63 line .
The first median line is consequently sittlated in the obtnsc angle of the morphological axes , and is inclined to the axis The second median line lies in the obtuse angle , and is inclined to the vertical axis \mdash ; The resnlts of the determinations with prisms , ground on six different crystals , are givcn in the accompanying ) The values ) tained by Topsoe and Christiansen ctre ppended in the last column .
The values , which were alone determined directly by them , are observed to agree well with the authors ' dues .
The intermediate refractive index of potassium zinc selenats , corrected to a tcunm , is accurately expressed as far as the neighbourhood of , by the following As the dispcrsion increases the nnmelical value of the inde the and indices are not precisely reproduced by diminishing increasing the constant by fixed amoumts ; but they are on the erage less and greater respectively than the by and Alter( of ction of tions carried out at indicated the indices are diminished by ) for rise of temperaturc .
A res of the \mdash ; The calculated of the ratios of the two optical ellipsoids are as follows:\mdash ; Axcs of optical indicatrix : : : : 1 : Axes of vclocit esoid : .
A. E. Tutton .
A rative Cstallographical .
5 Stdr of the Do of Iolecnlar OpticCo are the values of these constants : Axiad \mdash ; Three excellent pairs of section-plates were ground , to the first and second median lines respectively .
Determination of Apparent Angle in Air of Potassinm Zinc Selenate .
Topsoe and Christiansen give the tngle in for the ngle 6 , both measnred in sodinm light .
The dispersion is observed to ) extremely , and the most ccurate mement is required to determine it , sections which afford very rings sharp ) ushes .
A tion of the of the dispersion is orded 1 ) immcrsion in ' oil , hose retion is most ectly the of the A section to the first line oil , rushes srtttt d their t1lglc fringed ing to the following sohcme:\mdash ; red Lt .
no colour no colour .
The obtuse anglc is lmed to ) to the left .
The ngle is therofore greatel for measurements in Li light ftnglc in the by bout o thus confirming tho of the in tho VOL. 66 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
A Comparative Determination of True Optic Axial Angle of Potassium Zinc Selenate .
Dispersion of the cedar oil no movement of the right brush , that corresponding to the optic axis situated in the acute morphological angle , was detected on altering the wave-length of the light , the total movement occnrring the left brush .
Hence the first median line lies nearer to the morphological axis for red than for blue .
The amount does not exceed 5 ' .
of of nperatm ( on the Optic Aji indicated that increases for of ttlre .
RUBIDIUM ZINC SELENATE , An estimation of inc in a specimen of the crystals employed afforded the following guarantee of purity : grammes ielded gramme , which corresponds to per cent. of zinc .
Calculated Ten suitable small crystals were employed , to four differcrops .
Habit : thick )ular , sometimes prismatic .
thDouble .
67 phologic - Angles of Rubidium Zinc Selenate .
easu .
otal nunbcr of ements , Mr. A. E. Tutton .
rative C Axial angle : of axes : : 1 : Forms observed : The results of the measurements are tabulated in the The types observed resembled those of rubidium zinc sulpbate , especicdly that in fig. 7 ( p. 359 ) of the double-sulphate memoir , but without the faces as a rule .
Only a trace of the orthopinacoid was discovered ; the clinopinacoid was invarial ) small when present , and the hemi-pyramid was only present on one of the crystals measured .
The faces were fairly well developed , and afforded good images of the signal .
Frequently the only faces present were \ldquo ; and .
The faces va1ied in relative importance from the breadth exhibited in the potassium salts to the narrow strip teristic of the caesium salt .
There is an excellent cleavage parallel to the faces of the orthodome \mdash ; The tions n made with independent quantities of the finely-powdered Weight of employed .
JMean \mdash ; On coml)ining t the of the iven , with the volunlc , the tnined : : : tirs .
, of .\mdash ; The ) lic in the of .
The of the ] is posive .
ibited 1 Donble ' Scl .
69 ooround parallel to the symmetry , with reference to the normal to the ) asal plaue:\mdash ; 'Scction Seetion 2 2 7 .
2 3 The directio ] ] is behind the , tow the vertical morphoa is .
This of the in dicatrix is gain the second first line lies in the obtuse morphological ( is clined 2 to the is .
The second mediall in the anglc is inclined to the \mdash ; Six prisms , on six different to rions crops , were employed in the tions .
The results in ccompanying table:\mdash ; Refractive liCeS of ) idium Zinc Selenate .
The acve of ) zinc selcnittc , corrected to cunm , is exprcssed ) as , for -length by the :\mdash ; The indiccs very closely odnced by the if the conMr .
A. E. Tutton .
A aphical stant is diminished by ; owing to appreciably increased dispersion in the direction , the indices are not so accurately reproduced , but are approximately given if the constant is increased by Altcration of by of showed that the indices are reduced by by of temture ( .
of Opfical Ellipsoid.\mdash ; Following are the values of the axial ratios of the two optical ellipsoids\mdash ; Axes of optical indicatrix : : : Axes of optical velocity ellipsoid : : Constants.\mdash ; The calculated values of these constants are as follows:\mdash ; Optic Axial \mdash ; The following measurements were obtained the aid of three pttirs of section-plates , ground perpendicular to the first and second lines , according to the indicatious of their o1ientation afforded by the extinction angles:\mdash ; ?
of the Double of the .
71 etermination of True Optic Axial Angle of Rubidium Zinc Selenale .
The dispersion is thus seen to be small , but it is distinctly greater in the case of the potassium salt .
In cedar oil , whose refractiou is almost exactly the same as that of this salt , a section perpendicular to the first line exhibits the brushes fringed with colour as follows:\mdash ; red .
red blue The optic axial angle is therefore greater for red for blue , thus confirming the results of the surements .
the \mdash ; In the foregoing representation of the coloured brush-fringes seen in cedar oil , the obtuse angle of the axes is tted to the left .
The hyperbolic brush ou this sidc more faintly tinted at the edges than the -hand brush , indioating feebler dispersion of the optio axis to the left .
leasurements i cednr oil confirmed this , thd showed the ence betwecu the position of this optic axis for -light and for was , whilst for the right-hand axis it .
Hence the median lines are dispersed so that the first line lics to the axis by 4\mdash ; for red light thau it does for bluc .
of ' of on the \mdash ; Very littlc is introduced iu the optic axinl of this 1Jy 72 Mr. A. E. Tutton .
A Comparative of .
Measurements in succession at and indicated that increases 30 ' for of rise of temperature .
ESIUM ZINC SELrNATE , The analysis of specimen of the crystals of this salt ffiorded the following numbers : gramme gave 0 gramme of , which corresponds to per cent. of zinc .
The calculated percentage is Eleven of the most suitable small , derived from five different crops , were employed in the goniometrical measurements .
Habit : flattened prismatic .
Axial angle : Ratio of axes : : : Forms observed : ; ; The resuIts of the measurements are presented in the accompanying table of tngles .
The bits of the crystals of the are typified by the following figurcs of the double sulphate memoir ( loc. ) : figs. 9 and 10 in the description of caesium zinc , fig. 16 in the description of caesium fcrrous sulphate , fig. 21 , bnt with much larger faces , and fig. 34 in the description of caesium as far as regards the relation of the and ( 1 faces .
They are characterised by large faces relativeIy to the faces of the bnsal plane , which tter is usually only represented by a mere strip .
The faces of the hemipyramid are often considerably developed .
The clinopinacoid is frequently present , but the coid was never observed .
The clir-odome was developed on one of the measured .
The oleavage parallel to , common to the series , was well developed .
of Double of thScries Angles of Caesium Zinc Selenate .
Mr. A. E. Tutton .
rative c ttive determinations with independent material afforded the following results:\mdash ; of Sp. salt employed .
at Mean .\mdash ; Rntios.\mdash ; Combination of this molecular with the axial angle and axial ratios already given , afl.ords the following distanoe ratios:\mdash ; : : : Optics .
Orient of of Optical Elhpsoid.\mdash ; The plane of the optic axes ( bi-nolmals ) is again the plane of symmetry .
The sign of the double refraction is also still positive , as for the potassium and rubidium salts .
Stauroscopic observations carried out with two section-plates ground parallel to the symmetry plane gave the following extinction angles with reference to the normal to the basal plane:\mdash ; Section 1 Section 2 5 26 Mean 5 46 The direction is in front of the normal , nearer to the inclined morphological axis .
This axis of the optical indicatrix is the second mediaIl line .
The first median line is accordingly situated in the acute angle of the morphological axes , and is inclined to the axis .
The second median line lies in the obtuse ngle t , and is clined 2 to the axis Indices.\mdash ; The results of the refractive index tions with six p1isms , ground from dilfere1lt crops , presented in the nying tttble .
The ctive index of caesium zinc , corrected to vacuum , is expressed to lear , for wave-length , by the following formula:\mdash ; Stlt of the The indices are repl.oduced with precisely equal accuracy if the is diminished by ; owing to slightly increased dispersion exhibited ) the indices , these values are reproduced with htly less the constant is by the amount of by of of the prism angle minimum deviation at , indicttted that the indices are reduced by for 45 rise of temperature .
of th .\mdash ; These values are as follows:\mdash ; Axes of optical indicntrix : : 1 : Axes of optic elocity ellipsoid : : : Caesium Zinc Selenate .
\mdash ; These ulldol :\mdash ; Mr. A. E. Tntton .
A Comparative phicat \mdash ; The axial angle in air is so large as to be only measurable with some difficulty , sven in the cases of the largest and most perfectly transparent sections .
Owing to the relatively small ' of all the salts of this series , sections require to have a thickness of at least a millimetre in order to afford small rings and brushes .
Hence , if the section is not of ) , and not , relative breadth the brushes become obscured .
TYVO of the sections ) repared enabled tworthy measurements to be tained , the others , although excellent for , did not exhibit adequately clear brushes in air .
Apparent Anglc in Air of Caesium Zinc Selenate .
Scction 1 Section 2 .
Li 162 50 165 20 164 5 Na 165 43 166 30 166 6 Tl 168 21 167 23 167 No measurements were obtainable beyond the green , the arlgle too large .
From the resuIts given in the accompanying table for the true angle , it will be observed that the dispersion of the optic axes is considerably greater than in the cases of the potassium and rubidium .
To confirm its nature , and determine the dispersion of the median lines , a liquid was sought for whose refraction was the same as of the crystals , which was without action on them .
Pure methyl salicylate fulfils these conditions , and the inte1ference figures afforded by sections perpendicular to the first median line were observed , while immersed in a cell of this liquid .
lrement in and light afforded angles most identical with those from and .
as measured in monobromonaphthalene , and the snme amount and order of dispersion .
Four pairs of section plates were employed in the determinations of the trne angle .
Sclcnates of tion of True Optic Axial becti.nsectionNo .
th \mdash ; When the true angle is observed in in white light , the brushes seen to be highly the scheme:\mdash ; blne red 1st .
red blue .
The is thns indubitably the rgel for .
If the so obtuse angle of the the left , the optic to the is ( to ) and Tl light ) the lIcnce the illCS arc ) ) vcen the so the first lics to the nlol-for red for green .
of on th , the of tho for ) risc of ) , Mr. A. E. Tutton .
A Comparative of the Three A concise statement of the conclusions to be drawn from a comparison of the results for the three salts will be found in the Abstract published in the 'Proceedings of the Royal Society , ' vol. 66 , p. 248 .
The { ollon comparative tables and diagrams will enable these conclusions to be clearly appreciated .
Comparison of the Morphological Angles of the Three Zinc SaIts .
tlngle .
Diff. Study of of Scrics The minutes figures in brackets in the table are the observed in those cases where the differences between the and calcnlated values are change is not generally directly proportional to the change in the atomic weight of the alkali metal , the maximm variation from direct proportion .
the primary angles being exhibited by the prism zone , here the changes in or are as 1 to Comparison of the Axial tios For ssium zinc selenate , : : 1 : , , , , : : 1 : caesium , , , , : Comparison of the Relative Densities .
Potassium zinc selenate Diff. Rubidium , , , , Diff. , , , , 3.1153 The difference between the sities of potassium zinc and rnbidinm zinc snlphates is , and between those of the latter salt and caesium zinc sulphate Comparison of the Molecular Volumes .
zinc Diff. liubidium , , , , Diff. Caesium , , , , The differences for the two replacements in the zinc double were Comparison of the Dislance Ratios .
80 Mr. A. .
Tutton .
A Cp These ratios may be simplified by referring them to for selenate as unity , when the values for that salt become identical the axial ratios .
These ratios are as under:\mdash ; Comparison of the Orientations of the Optical Indicatrix .
Inclinations of Axis of Indicatrix to Vertical Axis For potassium zinc selenate 9 9 Diff. 4 4 , , rubidium , , , , 1313 \ldquo ; The rotation of the ellipsoid is clearly illustrated by fig. 2 .
Comparative of Refractive Indices .
( ' Doubfe of the .
81 FIG. 2 .
The best mode of comparing the refraction of the three salts is to take the mean of three indices , for an intermediate -length , of each salt , and to set these mean indices side side .
Such values for sodium light are given Iean refractive of KZu selenate for Difl .
26 RbZn , , \ldquo ; CsZn , , The ctive i of the I Rb , nnd Cs zinc , and .
The differences , 38 thus ( when sulphur is by selcmu ] ) .
riso of cfra . .
4 The difl'ercnce for the first replacenlcnt , is thus tl at of the ction , 26 .
This , in spitc of the ogression in ction , the ( icos of ) less than those of the KZn The relations of the cve powers of the three salts isely expressed by axial ratios of the optical ellipsoid , which : compared ) , and evell more the fig. 3 , hich express them graphically .
82 .
A. E. Tntton .
A Comparison of the Optical Ellipsoids .
Optical Indicatrix .
Double refi.action .
: 1 : 141 , , 111 CsZn , , Optical Velocity Ellipsoid .
:1 : 140 RbZn , , , , ison of the Indicatrices when / 3 : 1 li , 09988 : : , , : The last series of tios shows the total changc of the cllipsoid on from one salt to another , the numbers ) tained 1 ) considering the initial length of the is , its in ssium salt , mity .
They graphically expressed the dotted in fig. 3 .
: Donble Slcjtates of the .
83 Besides the main conclusion regarding these tios , givell in the Abstract , it will be observed that a notably less the length of the axis of the indicatrix than along the othel two axes , when the change is considered ; this is illustr}tted by the less weep of the corresponding curve of the dotted series show1l i21 .
Whcn the elative change only is considered the ve is , the long the axis ) eing ximum , ics cnrve of the coutinnous series in fig. 3 taking grenter sweep .
The tive rtionships of the three axes to one another , the of salt , goverll the magnitude of the optic ngle of the that the positions for the )idinm salt points to ( intermediate optic axial angle ) ' that } } hich the next table shows is fulfilled .
The tion of the double refraction as the wcight of is increased is clearly shown by the ( by tho vergence of the Comparison of True Optic Axial Angles , Light .
selellate .
RbZu elenate .
CsZn selenate .
12 13 15 17 20 16 14 2 12 75 16 SS C ' 30 75 The bynnnetly is the common plane of the } ) action is positive for all three salts , the the lines also ject to the rotation of the lolccnlar O ific 1 . .
-t sel .
] ] ] 1051 CO 66 76 62 67 ( Molecular refraction , For ray ( Ha ) .
For ray near G. : 3 .
3 .
3.05 sc ; Cs Specific Dispersion , KZn . .
CsZnsel .
Molecular Dispersion , ) ) ) KZn sel .
RbZuscl . . .
Refraction stoJlc ) ] I. . .
: 9 . .
stated in the Abstract regarding specific and ction a independent of the wave-length , and whether they are by the formulae of Lorenz or Gladstone and Dale .
Thev il so independent of temperature , for it has been with regat to each salt that the refraction is diminished ) rise of tem , and the density , the other factor in the calculation , is burally affected in the same direction by increase of temperature .
The cement of sulphnr by selcnium in these zinc salts is conlI I by increase of molecular refraction of etlZ u11its Gladstone units for the tccording to tho div'oction compared .
The increase due to atom is thns or .
The values del.ived from of the ) and selenates were or .
The derivotI ) the two series are thus mullication the gronp of will ) dehcs } )

