1884.1 On the Volcanic Eruption in Sunda 199 I communicated personally with the captain of the Netherlands frigate " Queen Emma " stationed on the spot , and was informed by !
him that the changes are considerably more extensive than was at first thought , and that Verlaten Island is still in a state of activity as well as Krakatoa itself .
From observation he thinks that another eruption is impending , but that Verlaten Island will be the centre of disturbance .
The Netherlands Government vessel " Hydrograaf " obtained a sounding of 100 fathoms without reaching bottom , in the centre of the group and off the cliff falling from Krakatoa Peak .
The two new islands are low mud and pumice banks , their configuration is continually altering , and I was informed that they are gradually subsiding .
#*#### It is still impossible to examine Lampong Bay , but the pumice stone is now beginning to float out .
The light on Fourth Point ( Java ) has been temporarily replaced by one of the 6th order , visible five miles , but beside this there are no signs of life on the Java shore .
The whole coast is covered with the debris of trees , \amp ; c. , demolished by the earthquake sea-wave , and over all lies a thick incrustation of volcanic mud .
During the height of the eruption a terrific whirlwind and a fierce south-westerly gale , apparently local , was experienced .
# * * # # # IV .
Report from H.B.M. Consul at Batavia , enclosing Extract relating to the Volcanic Outbursts in the Sunda Strait , from the Logbook of the Steam-ship " Governor-General Loudon .
" Communicated by R. H. Scott , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1883 .
Sunday , 26thAugust.\#151 ; Left the roadstead , Batavia , at 8.10 A.M. , and steered through the inside channel .
At 9.80 a.m. , steering between the islands Great Kombuis ( or Lantjang ) and Pulo Lakki ( or Mometer or Cannibal Island ) , sighted the Kombuis red buoy due north , while at 10 a.m. the white Cannibal buoy lay due south .
Rounded Point St. Nicholas , and taking our bearings from the land proceeded through Sunda Strait to the roadstead of Anjer , where we anchored at 2 p.m. A{\gt ; Anjer we took on board 111 passengers , coolies arid women bound for Sibogha , and left Anjer roadstead again at 2.45 P.M. , and taking our bearings from the land we ran past Pulo Soengjan , or " Right in the Fairway " Island , past Hog Point and Lampong Bay , and then discovered that the island of Krakatau was casting forth enormous VOL. xxxvi .
p 200 On the Volcanic Eruption in Sunda Strait .
[ Jan. 1( columns of smoke .
At 5 p.m. Pulo Tiga Island lay about half a ' il English mile to the west of us .
Were steering then N.W. \#163 ; N. ( tin* bearing ) .
At 6.15 p.m. the southernmost of the Chandon Islands wa bearing north-east .
Laid the course next for the roadstead of Telok Betong , which wt reached at 7.30 p.m. , and where we anchored in six fathoms of water with thirty fathoms shackle outside the hawse-pipe .
From 6 o'clock we had rain of ashes and small bits of stone , and there was a stiff breeze from the N.W. and W.N.W. Monday , August 27th.\#151 ; Finding that at midnight on the evening of our arrival there was still no boat come off to us from the shore , and !
as the weather was now much calmer , I sent the first mate in the gig with a crew of six men to find out what was the reason of this .
About 1 A.M. he returned , and stated that it had been impossible to !
land on account of the heavy current and surf ; also that the harbour ] pier-head stood partly under water .
The Government steamer " Berouw , " which lay anchored near the !
pier-head , hailed the mate as he was returning on board , and the people on board her then stated to him that it was impossible to land anywhere , and that a boat which had put off from the shore had already been wrecked .
That by 6 p.m. on Sunday evening it had already begun to be stormy , and that the stormy weather had been accompanied by a current which swept round and round ( apparently a sort of whirlpool ) .
When the mate had come on board , we resolved to await daylight before taking any further steps ; however , for the sake of security , we steamed several ships ' lengths outwards , because the sound of a ship 's bell which seemed to be approaching us made us suspect that the ship must be adrift , and wishing therefore to avoid a collision we re-anchored in nine fathoms with thirty fathoms shackle outside the hawse-pipe .
We kept the ordinary sea-watch , and afterwards heard nothing more of the bell .
When day broke , it appeared to us to be still a matter of danger to send a boat ashore ; and we also discovered that a revenue cutter was foul of a sailing-vessel which lay in the roadstead , and that the " Berouw " lay very close in shore .
Later we found that the " Berouw " was stranded .
However , owing to the violent winds and currents , we did not dare to send a boat to her assistance .
About 7 p.m. \ve saw some very high seas , presumably an upheaval of the sea , approaching us up the roadstead .
These seas poured themselves out upon the shore and flowed inland , so that we presumed that the inhabitants who dwelt near the shore must be drowned .
The lighthouse was altogether carried away , and the " Berouw " then lay high upon the shore among the cocoanut trees.* Also the revenue * And as far as ascertained since , every soul on board was killed .
The steamer now lies two miles inland .
884 .
] On the Volcanic Eruption Sunda Strait .
201 -utter lay aground , and some native boats which had been lying in the teighbourhood at anchor were no more to be seen .
Since it was very dangerous to stay where we were , and since if we stayed we could render no assistance , we concluded to proceed to injer under steam , and there to give information of what had taken blace , weighed anchor at 7.30 A.M. , and following the direction of the oay steered thereupon southwards .
At 10 a.m. we were obliged to home to anchor in the bay in 15 fathoms of water because the ash fain kept continually growing thicker and thicker , and pumice-stone ilso began to be rained , of which some pieces were several inches hick .
The air grew steadily darker and darker , and at 10.30 a.m. we were in total darkness , just the same as on a very dark night .
The wind was from the westward , and began to increase till it reached the force of a hurricane .
So we let down both anchors and kept the screw turning slowly at half speed in order to ride over the terribly high seas* which kept suddenly striking us presumably in consequence of a " sea quake , " and made us dread being buried under them .
Awnings and curtains from forward right up to the mainmast , three-boat covers , and the uppermost awning of the quarter deck were blown away in a moment .
Some objects on deck which had been lashed got loose and were carried overboard ; the upper deck hatchways and those on the main deck were closed tightly , and the passengers for the most part were sent below .
Heavy storms .
The lightning struck the mainmast conductor six or seven times , but did no damage .
The rain of pumice-stones changed to a violent mud rain , and this mud rain was so heavy that in the space of ten minutes the mud lay half a foot deep .
Kept steaming with thb head of the ship as far as possible seawards 'for half an hour when the sea began to abate , and at noon the wind dropped away entirely .
Then we stopped the engine .
The darkness however remained as before , as did also the mud rain .
The barometer \#166 ; at that time stood again at 763'25 millims. Sounded the pumps .
No water .
Let the crew and also such passengers as were on deck work at ^throwing the mud overboard .
At 2 p.m. the barometer was 763'30 .
: The mud rain changed into a light ash rain .
The darkness remained the same until the following morning at :4 a.m. At daybreak began to get the chain clear and weigh the anchor ; got under steam at 6.30 a.m. ; made out then Tims Island , 1 bearing S. by W. , and Pulo Soengal Island , bearing S.W , ^ W. Held on our course for Palo Tiga Island and fell in with much ash and drift-wood .
When we got about two English miles off Pulo Tiga , it appeared that a connexion had been formed between the islands just mentioned Or , as he says elsewhere , " Squalls , storms , and seas as high as the heavens .
" p 2 202 On the Volcanic Eruption in Sunda Strait .
[ Jan. 10 stretching to Seboekoe Island , and thence to the mainland .
Whethei this connexion was formed out of solid ground or only out of pumice stone and trunks of trees is not known .
What is certain is , that the distance at which we then lay , it looked exceedingly like soliii ground , and so we thereupon turned back in order to look for another passage .
The very same phenomenon as had revealed itself neai Pulo Tiga was discovered also between Tims Island , Seboekoe , and Pulo -Soenchal , and we , therefore , resolved to make our way out through the Strait of Lagoendie .
This channel we found relatively clear , that is , in comparison with the other part of the bay .
Having got outside we discovered , that here also we were entirely shut in ; so steamed very slowly , stopping every now and then close by the so-called layer , and made it out at last to be floating pumice-stone , ' through noticing that the layer was heaved up and down by the ) motion of the surf .
How steamed somewhat faster , and when we got into the middle of the layer before referred to found it to be 7 or 8 feet thick .
It took !
us ten minutes to get clear of it , and then we held our course south of Krakatau , the serang* being in the fore-yard , a man on the look out forward , and the captain and first mate on the bridge .
Wednesday , August 28th , 1883.\#151 ; As we steamed past Krakatau we noticed that the middle of the island had disappeared , and that no smoke was to be seen in any direction .
However , when we got east of Krakatauf we discovered that between that island and Sebisie a reef had formed , and that various craters planted on that reef were now and then sending columns of smoke on high .
As we neared the coast of Java we observed that here , too , everything had been laid desolate .
We also perceived that the lighthouse on Java 's Fourth Point was entirely washed away ; nothing remaining except a stump some feet high .
At 4 o'clock reached Anjer roadstead , and although there was nothing more to be seen of the place itself the captain and the first engineer went ashore to learn what information was to be obtained .
Ashore we met the Resident of Bantam , and concluded to return straight on board in order- to convey his Honour to the roadstead of Bantam , and this because the Resident assured us that it was of very great importance in the public interest -that such should be done .
We left Anjer Roads at 10 minutes to 5 o'clock , steamed round St. Nicholas ' Point , and went on taking our bearings for the Island of Pulo Pundjang , and steering into Bantam Bay .
* Serang is a sort of boatswain .
f In another place he says also that , " Also half of the island ' Right in the Fairway ' had disappeared , and what is left of it has been broken into fragments with open spaces between them .
" 884.1 On the Volcanic Eruption in Strait .
203 We arrived at our destination at 6.50 p.m. ; by request of the Resident , him on board a ship which lay in the roads there , and after having lone this at 7.30 we got under steam again and made for Kroe Benkoelen district ) .
T. H. Lindeeman , Master of the " Governor-General Loudon .
" Additional Notes .
The telegraph buoys in the neighbourhood of Anjer may possibly have been somewhat shifted , but they were found not to have been jcarried away .
The town of Tjiringen ( Java ) has been destroyed .
At Anjer , besides many natives who are supposed to have perished , the Assistant Resident , the harbour master , and nearly all the other Europeans were destroyed .
The lighthouses at Java First Point and Flat Cape ( Sumatra ) are still standing .
At Padang from the afternoon of the- 26th of August for the succeeding twenty-four hours re-echoing sounds made themselves heard like the noise of distant and heavy cannonading .
The air now and then was red-coloured , , while during the afternoon of the 27th thirteen bores or tidal waves rushed up the harbour , the third and highest of these waves rising to about -^th of a metre below the crown of the quay on which the harbour master 's office stands .
The strength of these waves varied for the most part between that of a four-mile and of a six-mile current , but the third wave was estimated to be running at a speed of about twelve miles .
Beginning at 12.50 P.M. they recurred at intervals till nearly midnight .
The average pause between the flow and the ebb of these waves was about four seconds .
It will be seen from the foregoing that three lighthouses are known to have been destroyed , viz. , the harbour lights at Anjer and Teluk Betong , which were small , and the big lighthouse o\gt ; n Java Fourth Point .
It is worthy of note also that on the morning of the 27th of August before daybreak the master of the British steam-ship " Devonhurst , " which was then off the North Coast of Acheen steering for Olehleh , was woke by a shock which led him to think that the steamer had stranded .
He rushed on deck to learn what had happened , but found his vessel in deep water in her usual course .
One or two superstitious ideas which revealed themselves among the native population in consequence of the disaster are not unworthy 204 On the Volcanic Eruption in Strait .
[ Jan. If j of notice .
Thus on board the " Governor-General Loudon " the mu rain* which covered the masts , rigging , and decks , was phosphoresces sj and on the rigging presented the appearance of St , Elmo 's fire .
Th ; natives engagedthernselves busily in putting this phosphorescent ligh i out with their hands , and were so intent on this occupation that th stokers left the engine-rooms for this purpose , so that the European cj engineers were left to drive the machinery for themselves .
Tin natives pleaded that if this phosphorescent light , or any portion of it found its way below a hole would burst in the ship : not that the ) S feared the ship taking fire , but they thought the light was the worl of evil spirits , and that if the ill-omened light found its way below the evil spirits would triumph in their design to scuttle the ship .
Recent telegrams from the scene of the disaster describe the native population as hostile , and inclined to attribute the catastrophe to the vengeance of heaven pursuing the Dutch for their conduct in Acheen .
Such Europeans as escaped the eruption are now reported to be in danger of being murdered by the natives .
' These accounts are , however , possibly exaggerated .
The Dutch officials make light of them , and deny that there is any ground for political disquietude .
Krakatau Island before the eruption was 822 metres high .
Pule Bessi , the neighbouring island , was 849 metres high .
The earthquake waves which deluged Anjer and the neighbouring coasts were two in number ; the second was higher than the first , bnt the first was reckoned to have been 13 feet high when it touched the land .
There was an hour 's interval between these two waves .
The shock of these waves ( or of one of them ) drove the ships and the dry-dock in Ourust Island , near Batavia , from their anchorage .
The earthquake wave was still as much as 6 feet high when it struck the shore at a place called Sembilangan Laoet , more than 2 English miles to the eastward of Batavia , and there it killed at least seven people. .
At Tjiringen , on the Sunda Straits , the earthquake waves are reckoned to have killed 10,000 people , and it is also known that these waves have flooded the coasts further southward , as far as Paniem-bang raver , in Pepper Bay ( how much further has not yet been ascertained)- .
To the eastward a reference to the map will show that the promontory ending in St. Nicholas Point , and which shelters Bantam Bay , is mountainous , containing two peaks , 640 and 634 metres high respectively .
Hence , as far as I can gather from the recent reports , the earthquake waves appear not to have done much damage to Bantam Bay , * It is supposed to have been raining violently at the time ; the rain mingled with the ash and formed the " mud .
" 18S4 .
] On the Volcanic Eruption Stinda Strait .
205 out to have swept past St. Nicholas Point eastwards , with a slight lirection south , and to have struck Tanara , a town near the coast on the river which separates the provinces of Serang and Batavia .
In the Tanara district 704 corpses have already been found .
The wave kid immense damage at Kramat , a coast village about 2 miles eastward of Tanara , and killed many people there .
It struck the land on the east side of the bay in which Batavia lays with a column of water , which was still 6 feet high ; and somewhere about this district the force of the flood seems , as far as is at present known , to have expended itself .
The first eruption on Krakatau Island took place about the 23rd of last May , and continued at intervals for a day or two .
It is not without interest to note that Captain Gibson , commanding the steam -dredger " Crocodile , " on its way to Australia , was , on August 21st , in latitude 7 ' 30 ' S. and longitude 90 ' 30 ' E. There he found his vessel amid great quantities of floating pumice-stone , some of which he brought on board and has preserved .
He attributed the presence of this pumice-stone to some volcanic eruption , which he supposed had taken place among the Eastern islands .
The current at that time was setting westward , at the rate of about a knot and a half per hour .
There were barnacles and shells on some of the pumice-stone , showing that it must have been for some time in the water .
Most probably this was the debris from the May eruptions on Krakatau. .
There may possibly be questions connected with the migration of animal or vegetable life , or with the duration and drift of oceanic currents on which the above incident may have an important bearing , or perhaps would have if it were possible to trace what ultimately became of the pumice-stone which was met with by the " Crocodile " travelling steadily westward , and which had already travelled so far .
In the neighbourhood of Anjer coral rocks more than six tons in weight were rolled by the sea far inland .
The corpses are so battered that it is often impossible to recognise whether the man was a Chinese or a Malay .
On the southern coasts of Java the flood waves rolled ashore , and did damage as far to the eastward as the province of Banjoemas .
In some places where the ash rain has choked the wells there is a scarcity of water .
( Signed ) H. G. Kennedy , Her Majesty 's Consul .
September 13 , 1883 .

