VII .
An Account of a Family having Hands and Feet with supernumerary Fingers and Toes .
By Anthony Carlisle , Esq. F. R. S. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. Read December 23 , 1831t DEAR SIR , THE following account of a family having hands and feet with supernumerary fihgers and toes , and the hereditary transmission of the same peculiarity to the fourth generation , appears to be worth preserving , since it displays the influence of each of the propagating sexes ; the male and the female branches of the original stem having alike reproduced this redundancy of parts .
I have carefully inspected two persons of this family at the time of their being in London , namely , ABIAH COLBURN , and his son ZERAH COLBURN , and have taken the particulars of the rest from ABIAH COLBURN himself , whose narrative was several times repeated to me , without any deviation .
ZERAH COLBURN , a native of the township of Cabot in the province of Vermont , in North America , has been lately brought to London , a ; d publicly exhibited for his extraordinary powers in arithmetical computations from memory .
This boy has a supernumerary little finger growing from the outside of the metacarpus of each hand , and a supernumerary little toe upon the outside of the metatarsus of each foot .
These extra fingers and extra toes are all completely formed , having each of them three perfect phalanges with the ordinary joints , and well shaped nails .
ABIAH COLBURN , the father of ZERAR , has five fingers and a thumb upon each hand , and six toes on each foot ; he has also five metacarpal bones in each hand , and six metatarsal bones in each foot .
The extra limbs have distinct flexor and extensor tendons .
The wife of ABIAH COLBURN has no peculiarity in her limbs .
During the existing marriage , she has borne eight children , six sons , and two daughters .
Four of those sons inherit the peculiarity of their father more or less complete , while the two daughters are free from the family mark , as well as two of the sons , namely , the fourth in succession who was a twin , and the eighth .
The eldest son of these parents , named GREEN COLBURN , has only five toes on one of his feet , but the other foot , and both his hands possess the extra limb .
The second child , BETSY COLBURN , is naturally formed .
The third , ZEBINA COLBURN , has five fingers and a thumb upon each hand , and six toes upon each foot .
The fourth and fifth were twin brothers , and named DAVID and JONATHAN ; DAVID , who is dead , had nothing of the father 's mark , but , JONATHAN las the peculiarity complete .
The sixth , ZERAH COLBURN , the extraordinary calculating boy , is marked like his father , as before described .
The seventh , MARY COLBURN , is naturally formed .
The eighth and last child , ENAS COLBURN , is also exempt from the father 's peculiarity .
Besides the persons I have mentioned , this hereditary redundance of-limbs has been attached to the little fingers , and to the little toes of several of the ancestors of the family .
The mother of ABIAH COLBURN brought the peculiarity into his family .
Her maiden name was ABIGAIL GREEN ; she however had not the extra finger on one of her hands ; the other hand , and her feet were similarly marked with those of her son ABIAH .
DAVID COLBURN , the father of ABIAH , had no peculiarity .
By his marriage with ABIGAIL GREEN , he had three sons and one daughter .
Two of these sons and the daughter were fully marked in all the limbs ; the other son had one hand and one foot naturally formed .
ABIGAIL GREEN inherited these supernumerary limbs from her mother , whose maiden name was -KENDALL , and she had five fingers and a thumb upon each hand , and six toes on each foot .
The marriage of -KENDALL with Mr.-GREEN produced eleven children , whom ABIAH ( OLBURN'S mother , who was one of the eleven , reports to have been all completely marked : but the present family are unacquainted with the history of the other ten branches , and they do not possess any knowledge of their ancestors beyond -KENDALL , the great grandmother of ZERAH COLBURN .
Numerous examples of the hereditary propagation of peculiarities have been recorded : all family resemblances , indeed , however trifling they may appear to a common observer , are interesting to the physiologist , and equally curious ; though not so rare as those described in the preceding history .
In every department of animal nature , accumulation of facts must 96 always be desirable , that more reasonable inductions may be established concerning the laws which direct this interesting part of creation : and it might be attended with the most important consequences , if discovery could be made of the relative influence of the male and female sex in the propagation of peculiarities , and the course and extent of hereditary character could be ascertained , both as it affects the human race in their moral and physical capacities , and as it governs the creatures which are subdued for civilized uses .
Nor is it altogether vain to expect , that more profound views , and more applicable facts await the researches of men , who have as yet only begun to explore this branch of natural history , by subjecting it to physical rules .
Though the causes which govern the production of organic monstrosities , or which direct the hereditary continuance of them , may for ever remain unknown , it still seems desirable to ascertain the variety of those deviations , and to mark the course they take , where they branch out anew , and where they terminate .
There is doubtless a general system in even the errors of nature , as is abundantly evinced by the regular series of monstrosity exhibited both in animals and vegetables .
It has happened in my professional capacity , that I have had to extirpate a supernumerary thumb from each of the hands of two girls , who were both idiots , though the families to whom they belonged were unknown to each other .
I have seen many instances of supernumerary thumbs and supernumerary fingers in persons to whom the singularity was not hereditary , and I have read of many others ; but whether of my own experience , or of authentic record , the redundancy has been on the outer side of the little finger , and outer side of the thumb , never on the back or inside of the hand , or on the sides of the intermediate fingers : and in similar cases as to the toes , the rule has been invariably the same .
In the Sacred Writings an example of this kind is given , II Samuel , ch .
21 .
v. 2o .
" And there was yet a battle in Gath , where was a man ' of great stature , that had on every hand six fingers , and on ' every foot six toes , four and twenty in number ; and he also " was born to the giant .
" The same account is repeated in I Chronicles , ch . ?
o. v. 6 .
In the Elementa Physiologie of Baron HALLER , numerous examples of this deformity are cited from various authors , with some instances of their hereditary descent , and others of a cutaneous junction between the extra limbs and the next adjoining.* That local resemblances , such as those of external parts , the hands , the feet , the nose , the ears , and the eye-brows , are hereditary , is well known ; and it is almost equally evident , that some parts of the internal structure are in like manner transmitted by propagation : we frequently see a family form of the legs and joints , which gives a peculiar gait , and a family character of the shoulders , both of which are derived from an hereditary similarity in the skeletons .
Family voices are also very common , and are ascribable to a similar cause .
Apparently many of our English surnames have been taken from the hereditary peculiarities of families , and the same practice existed among the Romans .
PLINY , in his eleventh Book , chap .
: 43 , relates an instance of a Roman poet , named VOLCATIUS , who had six fingers on each hand , and received the surname of SEDIGITUS in consequence .
He also states , that two daughters of a noble Roman , named M. CURIATIUS , had each six fingers , and that they took the surname of SEDIGITE .
Persons who had the surnamne of FLACCUS were so called from their pendulous ears , and numerous other instances are recorded by classic writers of surnames being derived from family marks .
Anatomical researches have not been so generally extended as to determine the prevalence of internal peculiarities , and perhaps they do not reach to the sanguineous system .
I have known two instances , in two different families , of the high division of the brachial arteries having the ulnar branch placed above the fascia of the biceps muscle at the inner bend of the elbows , and yet the father , the mother , the brothers and sisters of those two persons were not so formed .
Those marks called naevi materni , which are derangements of the sanguineous vessels , are not hereditary , whilst less remarkable changes in the ordinary skin are often so .
I have lately seen a man , and who is now living , who has a small pendulous fold attached to the skin of his upper eyelid , and the same peculiarity has been transmitted to his four children .
It would have been interesting to know , whether any similarity of structure existed in the families of the two rare examples of a total transposition of the abdominal and thoracic viscera .
( Phil. Trans. for 1674 , No. 107 .
page .
146 , by Dr. SAMPSON , and Vol. 78 , page 350 .
) In particular breeds of animals , the characteristic signs are generally continued , whether they belong to the horns of kine , the fleeces of sheep , the proportions of horses , the extensive varieties of dogs , or the ears of swine .
In China the varieties 0s 99 of gold and silver fishes are carefully propagated , and with us , what are vulgarly called " fancy pigeons " are bred into most whimsical deviations from their parent stock .
As wild animals and plants are not liable to the same variations , and as all the variations seem to increase with the degree of artificial restraint imposed , and as certain animals become adapted by extraordinary changes to extraordinary conditions , it may still be expected that some leading fact will eventually furnish a clue , by which organic varieties may be better explained .
A few generations of wild rabbits , or of pheasants under the influences of confinement , break their natural colours , and leave the fur and feathers of their future progeny uncertainly variegated .
The very remarkable changes of the colour of the fur of the hare , and the feathers of the partridge in high northern latitudes , during the prevalence of the snow , and the adaptation of that change of colour to their better security , are coincidences out of the course of chance , and not easily explained by our present state of pliysical knowledge .
I have the honour to be , Dear Sir , your much obliged and obedient servant , ANTHONY CARLISLE .
To the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. K. B. P. R. S. &amp;c. 100 A Table showing the hereditary Descent of this Peculiarity , according to the Method of Genealogists .
----Green , ---daughter of--a man naturally Kendall has 5 fingers formed .
and a thumb on each hand , and 6 toes on each foot .
| ADavid Colburn , ==Abigail , daughter of -a man naturally Green , has one hand natuformed .
rally formed : the other hand , and both the feet , like her mother 's .
I I , ____ Ten other children , all of them having 5 fingers and a thumb on each hand , and 6 toes on each foot .
Abiah Colburn , daughter of One son , with one hand One son , and one daughhas 5 fingers and.naturally formed ; the ter , with 5 fingers and aa thumb on each a woman naturally other with 5 fingers and thumb on each hand , and hand , and 6 toes formed .
a thumb , and one of the 6 toes on each foot .
on each foot .
feet with 5 toes , the other naturally formed .
gr. .
L i|---_.+T - ' xI - ? ?
t. X _r 11 Trv-c r-JIn riiu.l- &gt; IofDs , of l ok : rlu ... ..'.JiUUIiJ.:L.O1.L .
, Th trn 7er:1 h ( zlburr .
Arv-ClZ }nws C.rv 'Ct ; l !
%.ulUUlil , has one foot naturally formed , the other with 6 toes ; and 5 fingers and a thumb on each hand .
; eDoina.olburn , ava our arn ; Juiicnalul\.OUiuuljs " ,.L .
v^uui. .
, has 5 fingers and hishandsand feet has 5 fingers and a has 5 fingers and a thumb on each naturally formed thumb on each hand , a thumb on each hand , and 6 toes -a twin with Joand 6 toes on each hand , and 6 toes on each foot .
nathan .
foot-a twin with on each foot , David .
burn : her hands and feet naturallyformed .
DCLbCsy %.olburn : her hands and feet natural .
lie formed .
I- .
burn : his hands and feet natu .
rallyformed .
O N(1 I

