1881 .
] Dr. G. Thin .
Absorption of Pigment by Bacteria .
503 time to present a mechanical obstacle to their progress in growth from .one hair follicle to another.* IV .
" On the Absorption of Pigment by Bacteria .
" By George Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 19 , 1881 .
Whilst occupied with cultivation of ringworm hairs in vitreous humour at a temperature of 92 to 98 ' F. , I had occasion to observe in studying the hairs under the microscope , amongst the forms of bacteria which were invariably found in these cultivations , certain appearances that seem worthy of note .
For the present , I shall limit my remarks to one of these appearances .
It is known that certain fungi possess the property of taking up .colouring matter from the medium in which they grow ; and I have had occasion to observe in the Trichophyton tonsurans that both in man rand in the horse the fungus may acquire a dark colour from absorbed pigment .
In the case of the horse , I have found the mycelial wall represented by an apparently empty dark tube ; and I have found , at the same time , spores blackened with a coating of pigment .
I have found an analogous appearance in bacteria .
The bacteria found in these cultivations are seen in the transition forms of a spore or coccus , an elongating spore , rods , elongated rods , sometimes of great length , long rods , with the first appearance of a differentiation of the protoplasm into sporules , and finally as tubes full of spores or cocci .
These appearances have been now followed in several specific .organisms , and notably , and first of all , in the Bacillus anthracis .
They would seem to indicate the ordinary life-history of at least many bacteria .
I observed that frequently the preparations contained long bacteria rods which had taken up pigment from the hair .
This pigment was often found at one end of a long rod , whilst towards the other end the rod was free from it ; and in the part of the rod in which the pigment was found the spore formation could , in several instances , be * As treatment which is destructive of bacteria would also arrest the development of a fungus , it is desirable to add that in none of these cases , nor in previous .ones , was the author able to find the fungus described by Gruby , although a large number of hairs were examined .
The examinations thus made were so exhaustive that he can only explain the alleged existence of a fungus in this disease by assuming that the distinction between Alopecia areata and some of the forms of ringworm has not been always kept in view .
2 n 2 Mr. W. M. Hicks .
On Toroidal Functions .
[ Mar. Br seen to be more advanced than at the part which was free from pig .
meant .
The pigment was packed in the tnbes around and between the-spores ; but , by focussing , it could be seen that the substance of the spore was free from it .
The free spores and short rods were free from pigment .
The bacteria in which it was observed showed no other peculiarities , , and were of about the same calibre as the rod bacteria usually observed .
The fact is noted as affording proof that bacteria can take up minute solid particles through their walls .
V. " On Toroidal Functions .
" By W. M. Hicks , M.A. St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. W. L. Glaisher , F.R.S. Received February 21 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) This paper contains the development of a theory for functions which satisfy Laplace 's equation , and are suitable for conditions given over the surface of a circular anchor ring , and which therefore seem important in the possibility of their application to the theory of vortex rings , as well as other physical problems .
From the nature of the case , it will not be easy to give an intelligent and full abstract of the results without making it unduly long , but it may be possible to give some idea of its scope and the method of development .
Curvilinear co-ordinates are employed , the orthogonal surfaces being those formed by the revolution of a system of circles through two fixed points , and the circles orthogonal to them , whilst the third system are planes through the axis of revolution .
Calling these v , u , w , it is shown that any potential function can be expanded in the ' form\#151 ; 0= Jcoshw\#151 ; cos v22 ( APW\gt ; " +BQ , \#187 ; .
" ) cos ( ) cos where Pmn , Qm .
" are particular integrals of a certain differential equation , and which are the toroidal functions whose discussion forms the principal part of the paper .
They are in fact the same as spherical harmonics of the first and second kinds of imaginary argument , and of orders of the form ( 2p + l)/ 2 .
It is shown how the P can be expressed in terms of the first and second complete elliptic integrals F , E ; and the Q in terms of the complementary integrals F ' , E ' .
Several interesting results are arrived at , amongst others on relations between the P and Q functions , e.g. , between the zonal functions ( m\#151 ; v ) Pn+iQn - P"Q\#171 ; +i=J/ ( 2w+l ) .
The Pn serve for expansions in the dU space outside a tore , whilst the Qn serve for space within .

