333 XIX .
" On Curves of the Third Order .
" By the Rev. GEORGE SALMON , of Trinity College , Dublin .
Communicated by ARTHUR CAYLEY , Esq. Received May 20 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The author remarks that his paper was intended as supplementary to Mr. Cayley 's Memoir " On Curves of the Third Order " ( Philosophical Transactions , 1857 , p. 415 ) .
He establishes in the place of Mr. Cayley 's equation , p. 442 , a fundamental identical equation , which is as follows , viz. if substituting in the cubic U , x+ Xx ' , y+ Xy ' , z+ Xz ' for x , y , z , the result is U+3XS 3X2P+ X3U ' ; so that S and P are the polar conic and polar line of ( x ' , y ' , z ' ) , with respect to the cubic , viz. , dU , dU , dU _ dU ' dU ' dUT ' 3S=x-'-+y-y+- ' ; 3P=--dx+ y-T +Z 7 ; dx die z dxl dyw d and if making the same substitution in the Hessian H , the result is H+3 -+ 3X2l + X3H ' , so that Z and n are the polar conic and polar line of the Hessianthen the identical equation in question is 3(Sn-2-P)= H'UHU ' .
And it follows that when ( x ' , y ' , z ' ) is a point on the cubic , the equation U=O of the cubic may be written in the form SII-P=O , an equation which is the basis of the subsequent investigations of the paper .
The author refers to a communication to him by Mr. Cayley , of an investigation of the equation of the conic passing through five consecutive points of the cubic , in the case where the equation of the cubic is presented in the canonical form x'+y3+z3 G61xyz=O , and he shows that by the help of the above mentioned identity , the investigation can be effected with equal facility when the equation of the cubic is presented in the general form ; and he establishes various geometrical theorems in relation to the conic in question .
Finally , the author considers an entirely new question in the theory of cubics , viz. the determination of the points of a cubic , through which it is possible to draw an infinity of cubics having a nine-point 334 contact , or complete osculation , with the given cubic .
It is shown that the points in question are those which are their own third tangentials , and this suggests the consideration of the new canonical form , x2y+y2z+-z2x+ 2mxyz=O , of the equation of the cubic ; this inquiry , however , is not pursued in the paper .
XX .
" Researches on the Foraminifera."-Part III .
On the Genera Peneroplis , Operculina , and Amphistegina .
By W. B. CARPENTER , M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received June 17 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) In his preceding memoirs , the author has shown that two very dissimilar types of structure present themselves among Foraminifera , one characterized by its simplicity , the other by its complexity .
In the former , of which Orbitolites , Orbiculina , and Alveolina are typical examples , the calcareous skeleton does not present any definite indications of organization , but seems to have been formed by the simple calcification of a portion of the homogeneous sarcode-body of the animal ; that sarcode-body is but very imperfectly divided into segments , the communications between the cavities occupied by these segments being very free and irregular ; the form of the segments themselves , and the mode of their connexion , are alike inconstant ; and even the plan of growth , on which the character of the organism as a whole depends , though preserving a general uniformity , is by no means invariably maintained .
In the latter , to which Cycloclypeus and Heterostegina belong , the calcareous skeleton is found to present a very definite and elaborate organization .
The several segments of the body are so completely separated from each other , that they remain connected only by delicate threads of sarcode .
Each segment thus isolated has its own proper calcareous envelope , which seems to be moulded ( as it were ) upon it ; and this envelope or shell is perforated with minute parallel tubuli closely resembling those of dentine , except in the absence of bifurcation ; the partition-walls between adjacent segments are consequently double , and are strengthened by an intermediate calcareous deposit , which is traversed by a system of inosculating passages that seems properly to belong to it .
The form of the segments , their mode of

