Analysis of a new Species of Copper Ore. By Thomas Thomson , M.D. F.R.S. L. and E. Read November 18 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1814 , p. 45 .
] The mineral here analysed was brought from the peninsula of Hindostan by Dr. Heyne , where it occurs in considerable quantity along with malachite .
Those specimens that are freest from malachite are of a dark blackish brown colour , soft , being easily scratched with a knife , which leaves a streak of a reddish brown .
Its specific gravity is 2'62 .
Its fracture is in general small-conchoidal , but with a tendency in some parts to a foliated fracture ; but it has not yet been seen with any appearance of external crystalline form .
It effervesces with acids , which form a blue or green solution according to the acid used , and leaves a red powder undissolved .
One hundred grains treated with dilute sulphuric acid lost 16'7 grains by escape of carbonic acid gas .
One hundred grains having been treated with muriatic acid formed a green solution , from which a clean plate of zinc precipitated 48-5 grains .
The red powder left by cold muriatic acid was digested for several hours in nitro-muriatic acid , which left 21 grains of white quartz undissolved , and afforded by ammonia a precipitate of 19'5 grains oxide of iron .
In order to determine the state of the oxide of copper in this ore , Dr. Thomson put 100 grains in fine powder into the bottom of a tall narrow vessel , which he then filled with water , and by means of a funnel poured a quantity of muriatic acid on the ore at the bottom .
Since the ore was even in this mode immediately attacked , and formed a solution which from the commencement appeared green , he considers this evidence decisive , that the copper is in the state of black oxide , in which 100 of the metal are combined with 25 oxygen ; so that 48'5 of copper precipitated by zinc indicated 60'75 of black oxide in the ore , and the analysis thus conducted gives an amount of ingredients corresponding within one per cent. with the quantity originally taken for experiment .
Since the integrant parts of carbonic acid and of oxide of copper , as the author has elsewhere shown , are to each other in the ratio of 2'75 to 10 , and as this is just the ratio of 16-7 to 60 75 , the quantities contained in the ore , there can be no doubt that the carbonic acid and copper are combined in the ore , constituting a carbonate of copper without water , and in that respect differing from both malachite and the blue carbonate , the former of which would appear from Klaproth 's analysis to contain two particles of water , and the latter one .
So that the present ore may be distinguished by the name of anhydrous carbonate of copper .

