Proceedings .
November 18 , 1897 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. J. S. Haldane , Mr. George Murray , Professor H. Alleyne Nicholson , and Professor H. H. Turner were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The President reported that during the recess , at a Court held at Windsor on July 15 , 1897 , he , accompanied by Sir J. Evans , Treasurer ; Professor M. Fostei* , Secretary ; Professor A. W. Rucker , Secretary ; Professor R. B. Clifton , Sir W. Huggins , and Mr. W. T. Thisel-ton-Dyer , Vice-Presidents ; Sir J. D. Hooker , Lord Kelvin , and Sir G- .
G- .
Stokes , Past-Presidents , had the privilege of being admitted to the presence of the Throne and the honour of presenting to Her Gracious Majesty the loyal Address which had been approved by the Fellows at their meeting of May 20 , and that Her Majesty in accepting the Address made a gracious reply .
The Address and Royal Reply are as follows :\#151 ; " To the Queen 's Most Excellent Majesty .
" May it please your Majesty !
" We , your loyal and dutiful subjects , the President , Council , and Fellows of the Royal Society of London , humbly beg leave to offer to your Most Gracious Majesty , the beloved Patron of our Society , our respectful and sincere congratulations on the happy conclusion of the sixtieth year of your Most Gracious Majesty 's reign , a reign which has extended over a longer period than has that of any of your Majesty 's illustrious Predecessors .
Not in the number of years only has your Majesty 's reign surpassed all others : it has also been marked by unexampled prosperity and progress .
Conspicuous in that progress , and an acknowledged cause of that prosperity , has been the marvellous advancement during your Majesty 's reign of that Natural Knowledge to promote which your Majesty 's illustrious Predecessor , King Charles II , founded the Royal Society .
Your humble and devoted servants , the Fellows of the Royal Society , feel that they , in common with all men of science , have especial reason to rejoice in the long continuance of your Majesty 's beneficent rule .
VOL. LXII .
w 154 Proceedings .
" We beg your Majesty graciously to receive this token of the loyal devotion which the men of science of this country feel towards their Sovereign Lady the Queen .
" And we shall ever pray that your Most Gracious Majesty may be spared for many years to reign over your dutiful and loving people .
" Her Majesty 's Reply .
" I thank you for your loyal and dutiful Address .
I am much gratified by the attachment which your ancient and learned Society expresses to My Throne and Person .
I am fully sensible how far the labours and ingenuity of men of science , whom you worthily represent , have advanced the industrial and social prosperity of My people , and have tended alike to their good and refinement , and I confidently expect the same excellent fruit in years to come from the indefatigable and reverent Investigation of Nature for the promotion of which the Royal Society was founded .
" In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair .
Mr. Horace Brown , Sir Douglas Galton , and Dr. T. E. Thorpe were by ballot elected Auditors of the Treasurer 's accounts on the part of the Society .
The Secretary read the following list of Papers received since the last meeting and published in accordance with the Standing Orders :\#151 ; Professor J. A. Fleming and Professor J. Dewar .
Further Observations on the Dielectric Constants of Frozen Electrolytes at and above the Temperature of Liquid Air .
Professor J. Dewar and Professor J. A. Fleming .
On the Dielectric Constants of Certain Organic Bodies at and below the Temperature of Liquid Air .
Professor J. Dewar and Professor J. A. Fleming .
On the Dielectric Constants of Metallic Oxides dissolved or suspended in Ice cooled to the Temperature of Liquid Air .
Professor Rubert Boyce and Professor W. A. Herdman .
On a Green Leucocytosis in Oysters associated with the Presence of Copper in the Leucocytes .
Charles S. Tomes .
On the Development of Marsupial and other Tubular Enamels , with Notes upon the Development of Enamel in general .
Comparison of Magnetic Instruments Kew Observatory .
155 Dr. Mond , Professor Ramsay , and Dr. J. Shields .
On the Occlusion of Oxygen and Hydrogen by Platinum Black .
Part II .
J. E. Murray .
On Contact Electricity of Metals .
W. Gardiner .
The Histology of the Cell Wall , with Special Reference to the Mode of Connection of Cells .
H. L. Callendar and H. T. Barnes .
On the Variation of the Electromotive Force of Different Forms of the Clark Standard Cell with Temperature and with Strength of Solution .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the Viscosity of Hydrogen as affected by Moisture .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " Account of a Comparison of Magnetic Instruments at Kew Observatory .
" By C. Chree , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent .
II .
" Rote on the Influence of very Low Temperatures on the Germi-native Power of Seeds .
" By Horace T. Brown , F.R.S. , and F. Escombe , B.Sc. , F.L.S. III .
" On the Structure and Affinities of Fossil Plants from the Palaeozoic Rocks .
II .
On Spencerites , a new Genus of Lycopodiaceous Cones from the Coal-measures , founded on the Lepidodendron Spenceriof Williamson .
" By D. H. Scott , M.A. , Pli .
D. , F.R.S. , Hon. Keeper of the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
IV .
" Antagonistic Muscles and Reciprocal Innervation .
Fourth Rote .
" By C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. , and Dr. E. H. Hearing , At the request of the President , Mr. Gardiner made an oral statement on the subject of his Paper published during the vacation ( see list above ) .
" Account of a Comparison of Magnetic Instruments at Kew Observatory .
" By C. Chree , Sc. D. , F.R.S. , Superintendent .
Received October 26 , \#151 ; Read November 18 , 1897 .
Last July , M. T. Moureaux , of the Parc Saint-Maur Observatory , near Paris , brought over to England the travelling instruments employed in his magnetic survey of France , and a comparison was made between these and the standard magnetic instruments at Kew Observatory .
At the expressed desire of the Kew Observatory Committee , I submit on their behalf a brief account of the comparison and its results .
The comparison serves to connect the standard instruments at Kew Observatory with the standard French instruments at Parc Saint-Maur , the latter , as M. Moureaux has had the goodness to N 2

