GENTLEMEN , IN addressing you for the first time , it is perhaps to be regretted that the course of events during the last year should have imposed on me the obligation of alluding to subjects which cannot be approached with too much caution , and which involve considerations of no ordinary difficulty .
One of the subjects may be described most generally as the " Relation of Science to the supreme authorities in the State ; " and this is chiefly important as it affects the extent to which the claims of Science are recognized and regard paid to its interests by the ruling powers .
For example , it has often been more than doubted whether the opinions of eminent men of science , even when expressed in the most formal and deliberate manner , do , as things are now constituted , exercise sufficient influence over the deliberations of Government and Parliament when they are called upon to decide upon questions for the proper determination of which scientific knowledge must be considered as a valuable , and sometimes an indispensable qualification .
Among the various causes to which this may be ascribed , it seemed to some that a want of representation of Science in the Legislature was possibly one ; that is , that there was no one in either House of Parliament who was entitled to consider it his peculiar province to watch over the interests of Science and defend them , when , amidst the heterogeneous mass of subjects to which the attention of our Government and legislators is directed , it appeared probable that those interests would suffer , or receive less of that attention than their importance deserved .
With the view of remedying this defect , the Parliamentary Committee of the British Association for the Advancement of Science was formed ; it consists of seven members of the House of Lords and six of the House of Commons , who are " requested to act as a permanent Committee to watch over the interests of Science , and to inspect the various measures from time to time introduced into Parliament likely to affect such interests .
" My excellent predecessor in this Chair , who is himself a distinguished member of this Committee , thinks there is something in this arrangement 'forced and awkward .
" It may be so , for it is necessarily a makeshift , a substitute for a more formal and recognized representation of Science in Parliament ; but perhaps the more material question is , How has this arrangement hitherto worked ?
Has this Committee already done some good service to Science or not ?
The following is a short statement of what has been done .
1st .
The Parliamentary Committee , in conjunction with your Council , favoured by the zealous cooperation of the present Chairman of the Board of Customs , succeeded in carrying out a very beneficial arrangement at the Custom House , by which the international communication of scientific publications has been greatly facilitated ; and with the same view they have represented to the PostmasterGeneral the importance to science of prevailing on foreign countries to permit the extension to themselves of our excellent system of bookpostage .
A correspondence has been had with the Postmaster3 General and Mr. Rowland Hill , and interviews have been solicited and obtained .
There is a great desire on the part of the Post Office authorities to carry out this object ; and the only obstacle to success seems to be the reluctance of some foreign countries to consent to a perfectly free admission of publications .
2ndly .
The subject of pensions to men of science has been brought before successive Governments , with the view of obtaining for Science its fair share in the distribution of the Parliamentary Grant , and impugning that principle of selection which implies that absolute poverty in the recipient ought to be an indispensable qualification for the receipt , -a principle of which the adoption appears to have originated in the smallness of the sum placed at the disposal of the Government for the recompense and encouragement of civil services .
3rdly .
The Committee supported , and with success , a representa .
tion which had been already made to the Government by your Council , urging them to establish an office in this country to cooperate with Lieut. Maury in America , in collecting and reducing meteorological and hydrographical observations made at sea , and embodying the results in improved charts and sailing directions .
4thly .
The Parliamentary Committee has supported the memorial addressed to Government , requesting them to appropriate some buildings in a central situation in this metropolis to the accommodation of the principal scientific societies .
5thly , and lastly .
The Committee has , in a Report lately presented to the British Association at Glasgow , collected and embodied the opinions of eminent cultivators of Science on a question of great importance , viz. Whether any measures could be adopted by the Government or Parliament that would improve the position of Science or its cultivators in this country ?
The absence of a representation in Parliament has been mentioned as being possibly one of the causes of the supposed want of deference to the interests of Science ; but there are others which may well exercise some influence in bringing about a result , which , if its existence be admitted , must be a subject of regret to all whose opinions are deserving of respect .
It may be that there is something in the constitution of our Scientific Societies which may deprive them of their due weight and influence .
In some foreign countries there are Institutes , or other analogous bodies , recognized by their governments as part of the civil organization , and consulted on almost all occasions when scientific questions are under the consideration of executive or legislative bodies .
There seems ground for the belief , that any plan for the establishment of an Institute , properly so called , in this country , and certainly for organizing any direct dependence of Science on the Government , would meetwith little favour ; nor does there seem to be any desire that the aid now afforded by contributions from the public purse should be much increased ; in truth , there is nothing that would inflict a more serious blow on Science and its cultivators , than that an idea should prevail that the latter had obtained from those entrusted with the conduct of public affairs a greater share of national pecuniary support than the well-considered interests of the community at large rendered desirable ; there is nothing that ought to be more deprecated , for there is nothing that would be more fatal to the success of that which must always be our primary object , the object to which the interests of all societies , and of their members , must always be a secondary consideration , viz. the diffusion of Science itself , and the increase of our knowledge of the laws and pheenomena of the universe .
At the same time , no one who has watched the course of recent events can fail to suspect that the influence of those who represent Science is rather less than greater than it ought to be .
For example : Some applications for assistance addressed to the Government , and alluded to by your late President , were unsuccessful ; and if disposed to speculate upon the cause of failure , we may possibly adopt the conclusion , that our Scientific Societies ( not excluding even this , the most ancient and influential of all ) , owing to defects in their constitution or other causes , do not inspire the Government with sufficient confidence in their recommendations ; and we adopt this conclusion the rather that we perceive no distaste for , or depreciation of , Science in the abstract among those whose influence is powerful in the State ; on the contrary , we recognize among the members of successive administrations many known to be sincere friends to its advancement , and perceive also that great deference is sometimes paid to the individual opinions of men enjoying high scientific celebrity , and to those of public bodies , such as the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observatory and the Trustees of the British Museum , which are invested with a more official character .
Can it be possible then that the distrust of the recommendations of Scientific Societies as such , proceeds from some apprehension that in making them they are influenced by views of advantage to their own individual interests , which are opposed to the interests of the community at large ?
I should be reluctant so to think ; but all will agree , that everything that can by possibility exercise any injurious influence deserves to be attentively considered and , if practicable , corrected .
Those who entertain that opinion will perhaps be disposed to receive with favour a scheme propounded for remedying the evil , which meets with the approval of some on whose judgment reliance may be placed ; I mean the proposal to revive the late Board of Longitude under a new form , that is , to constitute a Board or Committee , composed partly of men holding high official situations , and partly of men of distinguished eminence in Science , to perform for its whole donain the functions which the late Board fulfilled for Navigation and Astronomy alone .
My distinguished predecessor in this Chair , while admitting the evils to which allusion has been made , has suggested a different remedy , that is , an augmentation in the number of your Council , and that the additional members shall be selected from such of our Fellows as , to use his own words , " have high general education , and are men of the world and of influence .
" It may well be doubted whether any change in the internal constitution of this Society , and least of all that change , will inspire the Government with greater confidence in its recommendations ; in truth , the prestige of antiquity , and the belief in the scientific qualifications of your Council , are probably the chief grounds on which such confidence as is now extended to suggestions emanating from us is based ; that confidence , therefore , might be still further impaired by changes in our constitution , and by admitting to our Council a larger proportion of men , who , however eminent in other departments of knowledge , have never made physical science their especial study or pursuit .
However this may be , it cannot be otherwise than beneficial that these suggested remedies , which are now fairly before the scientific world , should be thoroughly canvassed and discussed in conjunction with any other schemes which may be hereafter proposed for effecting a like object .
It would be unreasonable to expect that any very general assent should be immediately given to any plan which has sufficient novelty to prevent its ready acceptance by some Fellows of this Society and others , who seem to have an instinctive dread of any Government interference with the independence of societies , and take a just pride in discharging , in this country , by their own gratuitous services , those functions which in other countries are performed by men appointed and paid by the State .
The views which have been put forward may seem to be in some degree confirmed by the recent correspondence and discussions respecting the ?
1000 entrusted to this Society for the promotion of scientific objects .
It would be improper to go into any detail on a subject which has already been more than sufficiently discussed , and on some occasions in a spirit which was hardly called for or justified by the facts .
Whilst the reasons assigned for withholding the grant seemed doubtless to imply a misapprehension as to the purpose for which it was originally conferred , and the part fulfilled by the Society in the administration of it , at the same time it was the duty of the Government to require a statement of the mode in which the public money had been expended , and also of the grounds on which a renewal of the grant was solicited ; and it is to be regretted that any remarks should have been publicly made on the withholding of the grant until that information had been prepared and laid before the Executive , and they had had an opportunity afforded them of considering it , and deciding on their future course .
The Government , we may presume , are now satisfied with our distribution of the grant , and convinced of its utility , and they have decided in favour of its continuance .
The whole matter has also been placed on a more satisfactory basis , by the resolution which has been adopted of making the grant for the future the subject of a special annual application to Parliament , to be made by the Government .
I allude however to this subject , because if it be not an example of misapprehension on the part of the Executive of that kind to which reference has been made , I would at least direct your attention to the account which has been recently published in our Proceedings of the manner in which the ?
5000 already granted by the Government has been disposed of .
You are aware that a Committee , consisting of about forty in number , and composed of men well known in science , have been the distributors of that fund ; and I think that on carefully looking over the list of the various researches of interest to which it has been devoted , and weighing the paramount utility of the investigations and the value of the results , every one will join me in the expression of congratulation , that a grant so productive of advantage to the best interests of our country and mankind has not been withheld .
At the same time it has been a subject of regret to the Committee of Recommendations , that either owing to the existence of the grant not having become generally known , or to some other cause , the number of applications of an eligible character to share in its distribution has not increased as much as might have been anticipated .
It is possible that some modification of the stringent rules under which the money is now distributed may tend materially to enlarge the sphere of its usefulness .
It is very much to be wished , that young men who have received a regular scientific education , and are anxious to devote themselves to researches for which their own pecuniary resources are inadequate , should be encouraged to avail themselves of this Government Grant .
I cannot take leave of the subject of the temporary withdrawal of this fund , without recalling to your memory the zeal with which Lord John Russell ( to whom we owe the original proposal of the grant ) and Lord Brougham then advocated the interests of Science , both unwearied promoters of the intellectual progress of the human race , and both have thus augmented their claims to the honours with which an impartial posterity will doubtless reward their services .
H.R.H. Prince Albert , on the occasion of laying the first stone of the Birmingham and Midland Institute , set forth the advantages of the study of Science in language calculated to make a powerful impression on the numerous auditory to which it was addressed .
Lord Ashburton also showed , that , for want of a better scientific education in our artisans , we were likely to be outstripped in the race of commerce .
May we view these events as examples of a growing desire to encourage scientific study and research , and diffuse their benefits more widely !
The question of the removal of the Society to Burlington House has received the anxious consideration of your officers , An interview with Lord Palmerston , in the month of June last , had given us ground to hope that we should ere now have received some official notification of the intentions of Government on this subject .
In this we have been unhappily disappointed ; but all the information which has been received during the recess would lead to the conclusion that it has been determined to place Burlington House , or buildings erected on or near its site , at the disposition of the principal Scientific Societies of this Metropolis .
No situation could be selected more favourable ; and one cannot but anticipate that very important advantages will accrue to Science from their joint occupation of such a site .
Among the most important of the benefits likely to flow from this change of our abode , I would specify , -lst , the facilities which it will afford to men engaged in common pursuits to meet and interchange their thoughts and views on subjects deeply interesting to all of them ; 2ndly , the economical advantages that will result from a joint occupation ; 3rdly , the benefits which will accrue to all the societies by the approximation of their libraries ; and 4thly , the great increase of weight and dignity arising from so public a recognition of the claims of Science to national regard .
At the same time we may purchase these advantages too dearly ; and all the circumstances of the exchange must be well weighed before we finally agree to abandon our present location .
Since my acceptance of this office , I can truly say I have received the most unvaried kindness from all .
The best understanding has always subsisted , and I trust will ever continue to subsist , between your officers ; and the various matters of business which arise in the intervals between successive meetings of Council have been discussed by them at meetings held prior to each Council ; by which arrangement , the officers bring to the Council a better knowledge of the principal subjects about to be deliberated upon .
In the Report of the Parliamentary Committee , to which allusion has been already made , various other matters of great importance have been mooted , which may be classed under two heads:-lst , those which respect the extension of scientific knowledge ; and , 2ndly , those which have relation to rewards and encouragements to be bestowed on proficients in that department of learning .
Under the first division , the most important questions , doubtless , that can be agitated are those of the means to be adopted for improving the elementary instruction given in our schools , and for rendering the teaching of physical science more general at our Universities ; but on these , time will not permit me now to enlarge .
The difficult consideration of the extent to which public aid ought to be afforded to popular lectures , has been raised .
I am not disposed to agree either with those who altogether condemn this mode of imparting instruction , or with those who anticipate great advantages as likely to accrue to the cultivation and diffusion of Science from its extension .
There can be no doubt that latent talent has been sometimes called into existence by superficial teaching ; and , on the other hand , that superficial teaching will never confer sound knowledge .
Diligent and earnest private study alone can put the seal of authenticity on information acquired in the lecture-room .
But when we consider what a large proportion of our fellow-subjects have neither the means nor the opportunity of studying at the Universities , or of otherwise acquiring the knowledge referred to , and the great advantages that would result to the middle classes and the higher grade of artisans , from acquaintance with at least the elementary truths of Science , it is worthy of serious consideration whether a certain amount of support by the State should not be conceded to popular lectures and also to educational establishments , at which the elements of the physical sciences may be taught on a more general and systematic plan to students , who shall be invited and expected to enter on their study with a serious intention of learning , so far as their means and opportunities extend .
In connexion with this subject , of the scientific instruction of the masses , it is impossible to overlook the effectswhich may be produced by the publication , within the last few years , of works written , it may be , in a somewhat unphilosophical spirit , and propounding theories which rest on unsubstantial foundations , but written with great ability , and calculated powerfully to excite the imagination of those by whom the truths of natural science have been little studied .
Some students may perhaps require to have their attention aroused by the announcement of startling novelties , and these works may be to them the honey with which the bitter cup of abstract science must be anointed to attract their palates:"Ut puerorum aetas improvida ludificetur , Labrorum tenus .
" Under the second division of rewards and encouragements to those who are proficients in Science , the difficult subject of the utility of medals , decorations , and other stimulants of that kind , is discussed .
As to medals , I agree with those who consider it expedient that some should be given ; but care should be taken that such distinctions are not unduly multiplied .
The subject of decorations , titles , and orders of merit , considered as incentives to the application to scientific research , is full of difficulty .
On the one hand , it is doubtless an anomaly , in this country , that while these honours are now somewhat lavishly bestowed for military services , a very high degree of merit in any civil line is seldom rewarded by any such distinctions .
On the other hand , it is clear that rewards which were not approved by public opinion would confer little honour , and that there are many eminent cultivators of Science in this country who would set little value on distinctions awarded by the Government , which would rarely be in a condition to form an accurate estimate of the claims of rival candidates .
That the emoluments of Professors should be increased , and more prizes provided at the Universities for scientific merit , is generally admitted .
There is one point on which the Report in question is silent , but that involves so serious a grievance , and is calculated so much to discourage the devotion of high mental endowments to physical research , that it would be improper to omit all mention of it here , when something like a cursory review of the present position of Science in this country has been attempted .
It has somehow or other become almost an established practice in this country , that no amount of labour , however arduous , performed for the benefit of the community by men of science , is considered , as such , entitled to pecuniary reward .
I could enumerate many instances which have fallen within my own personal experience , in which a very great amount of anxious and harassing toil , wearisome alike to both body and mind , and calculated to exhaust the energies of both , has been performed for the State gratuitously by men of great eminence in their various walks of science , with a zeal and devotion worthy of all praise .
It is unnecessary , and it would be improper , to instance cases of services performed by persons now living ; they are well known , and some of them will occur to the great majority of my auditors ; but there is one very remarkable and recent example , in which he to whom my observations relate is unhappily no more , and whose labours have been alluded to in our biographical notices , -I mean that of the late Mr. Sheepshanks , a name which I cannot mention without recalling , with affectionate regret , the various occasions on which he has kindly assisted with his advice and stimulated by his encouragement my humble labours in science * .
As an original member of the Astronomical Society , and thus associated more or less with its Fellows for more than thirty-five years , I have witnessed the dawn , progress and final close of the honourable career of its most distinguished ornaments , many of whom I had the pleasure of numbering among my friends ; and I can truly say , that men more disinterested , more ardent lovers of science and human progress , and more enlightened members of society , it was never my lot to meet ; and when a more advanced stage of civilization shall be attained , -a period I fear long distant , the labours of such men will be appreciated as they deserve to be , and they will be cited as bright examples of a life spent in fulfilling one of the noblest of tasks , that is , enhancing the dignity of man , by showing of what things the human mind is capable .
Your partial suffrages having placed me , however unworthy , to fill that distinguished post at the head of the most ancient and venerable of our British Scientific Institutions , I have thought it right to avail myself of this , the first opportunity afforded to me of addressing you , to take a review , necessarily hasty and imperfect , of some of the desiderata of Science ; and having been so highly honoured above my deserts , I oiily desire that it may be said of me with truth , that I laboured diligently to induce my fellow-countrymen to regard with favour and respect , to cherish and foster , to appreciate and reward the labours of the cultivators of Science .
The Copley Medal for the present year has been awarded to M. Foucault , of Paris .
M. Foucault has been engaged in various remarkable researches during the last ten or twelve years .
His earliest labours were devoted to photography .
In the year 1844 , he published , along with M. Fizeau , an investigation of the comparative intensity , both chemical and optical , of three of the most brilliant sources of light of which we can avail ourselves , the sun , the voltaic arc , and incandescent lime* .
The investigations of these philosophers led to numerical results , from which the vast inferiority of the lime-light came out in a very striking manner .
While the voltaic arc with coke poles gave a light of which the intrinsic intensity was nearly -ths of that of the sun , the intensity of the oxy-hydrogen lime-light was found to be only about --th of that of the poles of the voltaic arc .
Shortly afterwards , M. Foucault was engaged , in conjunction with M. Fizeau , in a series of important researches on the interference of light produced by a considerable difference of path in the interfering streamst .
In ordinary cases , all signs of interference cease when the difference of path amounts to a few undulations , though interferences of a high order had been observed with the light of a spiritlamp with a salted wick , and also in certain peculiar phenomena exhibited in a pure spectrum .
But the prism does not seem to have been employed in the investigation of interference , except for the sake of analysing the tints produced by means of polarized light ; and theorists even doubted whether the vibrations of the body emitting the light in the first instance were sufficiently regular to render interference possible in the case of great differences of path .
But by subjecting a narrow band of interfering light to prismatic analysis , the authors were able to detect perfectly distinct interference produced by great retardations , amounting in one case to no less than 7394 undulations , proving that the undulations are regular in a very high degree .
A similar method of research enabled the authors to study the modifications of polarized light with great advantage .
In September 1847 , MM .
Foucault and Fizeau read to the Academy an account of their researches on the interference of the calorific rays .
By the use of very small spirit thermometers of great delicacy , they were enabled to detect alternations of intensity corresponding to those of illumination in the fringes produced by the mirrors of Fresnel .
By the same means they detected alternations of temperature , corresponding to and coincident with those of illumination , in the interrupted interference-spectrum obtained by the methods employed in their last-mentioned researches ; but the alternations of temperature were not confined to the region of the visible rays ; they extended into the region of the invisible heat-rays of Sir William Herschel , situated beyond the extreme red .
The authors established also the diffraction of heat , having succeeded in showing that the heat at a point a little outside the geometrical shadow of an opaque body with a straight edge , was greater than at such a distance from the shadow that the influence of the body was insensible .
On the 6th of May , 1850 , M. Foucault communicated to the French Academy an account of a highly ingenious and striking experiment relating to the velocity of light* .
The reflexion and refraction of light had long before been explained , both on the theory of emissions and on that of undulations .
According to both theories , the velocity of light within a refracting medium is different from the velocity in air ; but according to the theory of emissions it is greater , in the ratio of the refractive index to unity , while according to the theory of undulations it is less in the inverse ratio .
The progress of optical science had since been such , that the theory of emissions was almost abandoned , while the theory of undulations continually gained fresh support from new phenomena .
The effect of the interposition of a thin transparent plate in the path of one of two interfering streams , which had been deemed a crucial experiment , was wholly in favour of the theory of undulations .
Still , the conclusion was only an optical inference from the observed result ; the time of transit of the light did not intervene mechanically in the experiment .
M. Arago had proposed to employ the revolving mirror of Mr. Wheatstone to decide the question mechanically , in a manner closely resembling that employed by Mr. Wheatstone in measuring the velocity of electricity , and had shown by numerical calculation that with a high velocity of rotation the result would be sensible to observation .
But the experiment proposed by M. Arago , though the execution of it might not have been impossible , would at any rate have been highly inconvenient for observation , because the result depended on the aspect of a momentary image appearing casually at an unknown instant in an unknown part of the field of view , and it was never carried out .
The velocity of light had recently been measured directly for the first time by M. Fizeau ; but in this case the observed time was that which light took to travel some miles in air .
But by a highly ingenious contrivance , in which , by the introduction of a concave mirror , he was able to produce a fixed image of a revolving image , M. Foucault actually solved experimentally the question proposed for solution by M. Arago , though in a manner totally different from that suggested by that distinguished astronomer , and thus proved , for the first time by direct experiment , that light is propagated more quickly in air than in water .
On the 3rd of February , 1851 , M. Foucault communicated to the French Academy* an experiment which has attracted more public attention than perhaps any other of modern times , namely his celebrated experiment of the pendulum .
The phenomena of astronomy have long since proved the rotation of the earth ; but we , living on it , are not sensible of that rotation .
In one experiment only had the effect of the rotation been manifested , namely in the easterly deflection of a body let fall from a great height .
But in this case the experiment could only be attempted in particular places , and the result was only a small deflection , which was liable to be interfered with by a variety of disturbing causes .
But M. Foucault showed that a pendulum suspended so as to oscillate in all vertical planes alike , withdrawn from the vertical , and then left to itself , became by the very fact of its motion in some sense a celestial body ; and while the plane of motion tended to remain parallel to itself , and would actually do so at either pole , the earth turned round under it , and thus the plane of motion was affected with an apparent rotation in the direction , in our hemisphere , of the hands of a watch , the velocity of rotation decreasing from one turn in twenty-four hours at the pole to zero at the equator , in proportion to the sine of the latitude , and changing sign in passing into the southern hemisphere .
This experiment , as is well known , had actually been carried out by M. Foucault , and has since been repeated by numbers of others .
More recently still , M. Foucault has invented another instrument , which he calls a gyroscope , for the experimental demonstration of the earth 's rotation .
The action of the instrument depends on the fixity of the plane of rotation of a disk made to revolve with great rapidity about its axis .
The instrument is quite small , and may be used on a table , but requires great nicety of construction .
By availing himself of the precessional motion of the axis when the disk is acted on by a force tending to turn it about an equatorial axis , M. Foucault is able , in consequence of the construction of the instrument , not only to exhibit the earth 's rotation , but also to determine experimentally the plane of the meridian and the latitude of the place .
M. FovCAULT , I present to you this Medal in testimony of our admiration of the skill , ingenuity , and talent displayed in your very remarkable experimental researches .
Your Council have awarded one of the Royal Medals for this year to Mr. John Russell Hind , Superintendent of the Nautical Almanac , for his researches and discoveries in Astronomy ; an award , which I feel sure will meet the warm concurrence of the Society .
Mr. Hind commenced his astronomical labours as assistant to the Astronomer Royal , to which office he was appointed in November 1840 .
Mr. Hind held that situation during four years , and was distinguished by his punctuality , attention and zeal ; moreover , he devoted his leisure hours to the careful reading up of astronomy , both practical and theoretical ; thereby familiarizing himself with the various methods of observation and reduction , as well as the calculation of orbits for comets and double stars .
His first attempt at positive computation was an ephemeris of Bremicker 's comet for 1840 , which Mr. Airy printed in the Greenwich Observations of that year .
In 1844 , on being applied to by Mr. George Bishop , -a Fellow of this Society , so well known for his attachment to science , and his munificence in furthering it , the Astronomer Royal recommended Mr. IIind for the practical charge of that gentleman 's private observatory in Regent 's Park .
It is for the observations made for Mr. Bishop , that the Council have made their award ; and I beg to enumerate the principal .
Mr. Hind has discovered no fewer than ten new planets , and computed the elements of their orbits--first from his own observations , and again from those of other astronomers ; and he has greatly improved our knowledge of the motions of the other members of the planetoidal group , by similar discussions , in each case , of all available data .
IIe has also discovered three new comets , and assisted greatly in procuring multiplied observations of them and of others , by his rapid calculation and speedy publication of successive approximations to the elements of their orbits ; having thereby enabled many comets to be followed up through important portions of their paths , which would otherwise have been lost , -as witness the momentous and then lunique case of his comet of 1847 , which was observed at its perihelion passage at noonday , and in the immediate proximity of the sun , in consequence of the accuracy of Mr. Hind 's computed places .
With the powerful and efficient means thus furnished by Mr. Bishop , this assiduous observer has , moreover , discovered two elliptical nebule , and a remarkable variable star in Ophiuchus , which , when first seen in April 1848 , was of the fourth magnitude , and has now diminished to the twelfth .
Ie has also noted the variability of other stars , including the very remarkable changes in S Cancri , of which he published an ephemeris .
Ile has strengthened the evidence of the existence of a physical connexion between the constituents of binary stars ; and-with Mr. Bishop-he has accurately mapped and published , for the advantage of astronomers in general , all the stars in a large part of the ecliptic region of the sky , down to and including the eleventh magnitude .
These maps cannot fail to be of great utility in promoting the future discovery of planets and asteroids ; in fact , of gleaning the heavens in that very interesting department .
The dates and names of Mr. Ilind 's own discoveries in it beingvo .
VII .
3 Names .
Date of discovery , Iris ... ... ... ... ... ... 1847 .
August 13 .
Flora ... ... ... ... ... 1847 .
October 18 .
Victoria ... ... ... ... . .
1850 .
September 13 .
Irene ... ... ... ... ... .
1851 .
May 19 .
Melpomene ... ... ... ... 1852 .
June 24 .
Fortuna ... ... ... ... . .
1852 .
August 22 .
Calliope ... ... ... ... .
1852 .
November 16 , Thalia ... ... ... ... ... .
1852 .
December 15 .
Euterpe ... ... ... 1853 .
November 8 .
Urania ... ... ... ... . .
1854 .
July 22 .
MR. HIND , Accept this Medal , which the Royal Society presents to you , by an award which every astronomer will heartily confirm ; and I may add our best wishes that length of years and renovated health may enable your enthusiastic zeal and high talents to render further aid to science , to discharge , with ever-augmenting fame , the duties of the responsible office which you occupy , and to reap additional honours for yourself and country .
MR. WESTWOOD , I have the pleasure to inform you that the Council of the Royal Society have awarded to you one of the Royal Medals , on account of your valuable and long-continued researches in Entomology .
The Council have been led to this decision from the fact that you have not confined your attention to any one region of the world , or to any one class of insects , -extensive as these classes are , -but have grappled with the whole subject .
Besides a large amount of systematic work , you have particularly attended to the general principles of classification , and to the various kinds of affinity by which all organic beings are so curiously connected together ; and in your study of different groups of insects you have carefully observed their habits , economy , metamorphoses and geographical distribution .
It is now nearly thirty years since you commenced the long series of papers which are well known to naturalists , not only of this country , but abroad ; and that your writings have been appreciated on the Continent has been shown by their frequent translation .
Among your earlier labours , it is enough to refer to your wellknown s Modern Classification of Insects , ' in which the whole subject is treated in a masterly manner , as has been acknowledged by many most competent judges who have since profited by your labours .
Of your more recent memoirs , which we have especially in view on this occasion , I may specify as particularly deserving of attention , those on the Cleridae , Lucanidwe and Paussidee , published in the Transactions of the Linnean , Entomological and Zoological Societies , your monographs on several Carabidous genera in Guerin 's ' Revue Zoologique , ' your contributions to Fossil Entomology in the Journal of the Geological Society , and the completion of the great work in folio commenced by Mr. Doubleday on the genera of the Diurnal Lepidoptera .
Nor can I quite pass over your archaeological researches , though these are not connected with the objects of this Society .
MR. WESTWOOD , -This Medal is presented to you in token of the interest which we take in your entomological researches , which reflect so much honour on your talents and zeal .

