Abstract of a meteorologicaljournal kept at Benares during the years 1824 , 1825 , and 1826 .
By JAMES PRINSEP , Esq. Assay Master of the mint at Benares .
Communicated by PETER MARK ROGET , M.D. Secretary of the Royal Society .
Read January 25 , 1828 .
THE three principal Tables , each of which comprises the abstract for one year of the meteorological journal at Benares , are followed by two others , numbered I. and II .
, presenting the mean daily oscillations of the barometer , and the monthly deviations from its average height , for each month during four successive years , accompanied by the corresponding variations of the thermometer from its mean .
These tables exhibit the remarkable coincidence preserved by these phenomena throughout the year .
The indications of the barometer are all reduced to the freezing point by DULONG and PETIT'S formula for the dilatation of mercury .
I have inserted in the first column of Table I. the mean of three'years ' observations made at Berhampoor by Dr. A. RuSSEL ; but the instrument employed being of the mountain construction , the mercury did not move freely in the tube , which will account for the oscillations being uniformly less than those measured by myself .
Mr. DANIELL has noticed the liability of barometers to deteriorate from the accumulation of air bubbles above the mercury : to obviate this cause of error , I made frequent comparisons with one of WOLLASTON 's boiling thermometers .
From October 1823 to August 1825 , the error from this cause amounted to.046 inch , and I deemed it necessary to reboil the barometer ; it then stood , as nearly as possible , correct once more .
All of my tables have been cleared of the minute error thus found .
As a graphic representation more readily enables the eye to estimate the agreement of two lines in motion , I have delineated in a diagram the courses indicated by Table II .
, only reversing the direction of one curve , that the two lines may be collateral with respect to the centre line which stands for the annual mean .
The scales at the sides will explain the formation of the curves .
The year 1826 is omitted in the diagram , because the last two months are wanting in the series of observations .
2ZK2

