358 Short Index to Reports of Physical Observations ( Electric , Magnetic Meteorological , Seismological ) made at Kew Observatory .
Communicated by Dr. C. Chkee , F.E.S. , by request of the G-assiot Committee .
( Received January 25 , \#151 ; Read February 22 , 1912 .
) A summary of observational data obtained at Kew Observatory used to be given in an Annual Report , which was printed in the Royal Society 's 4 Proceedings ' up to the year 1900 .
From 1901 to 1909 these data were published in the Annual Report of the National Physical Laboratory , of which Kew Observatory then formed a department .
The data for 1910 have been published by the Meteorological Office , which came into occupation of the Observatory on July 1 , 1910 .
As the Reports of the National Physical Laboratory are not unlikely to be overlooked by those whose primary interest is in observational work , the Gassiot Committee decided , in October , 1911 , that it was desirable that a short list of their observational contents should be published in the Royal Society 's ' Proceedings/ The descriptions of the data , which appeared in tabular form in the Annual Reports , are arranged below according to the subject ; when there is no specific statement to the contrary , they refer to Kew Observatory .
References to some of the more outstanding phenomena \#151 ; especially the magnetic storms\#151 ; will be found in the text of the Annual Reports .
Electrical .
Mean hourly values of the absolute potential of the Kelvin " water-dropper " for each month , from 10 quiet days , and , based thereon , mean diurnal inequalities of the potential gradient in the open for the 12 months , three seasons , and the year .
In 1907 , 1908 , and 1909 mean monthly values of " dissipation " of positive and negative electrical charges obtained with an Elster and Geitel apparatus .
Magnetic .
Mean hourly values of declination and horizontal force for each month , from the Astronomer Royal 's " quiet " days , and diurnal inequalities deduced from these hourly means for two seasons ( " summer " and " winter " ) and the-year .
Mean monthly values of inclination and vertical force .
Mean annual values of declination , inclination , horizontal force , an Physical Observations made at Kew Observatory .
359 " vertical force , from all observatories contributing these data to the Kew Observatory .
In 1901 and 1903 , mean hourly values of Falmouth declination and horizontal force , from the Astronomer Royal 's " quiet " days , for 1901 , 1902r and 1903\#151 ; the latter two years in the 1903 volume\#151 ; and diurnal inequalities ( analogous to the Kew ones ) based thereon .
For the same three years particulars of the Falmouth dip observations , and mean monthly values of horizontal and vertical force .
Since 1904 , mean hourly values of Falmouth declination , inclination , , horizontal and vertical force , from the Astronomer Royal 's " quiet " days , and diurnal inequalities of these elements for the year , " summer " and " winter .
" ' ( The 1904 Report also included Falmouth vertical force and inclination hourly means , and inequalities for the year 1903 .
) Since 1903 , results of absolute observations at Valencia Observatory , and monthly and annual means based thereon .
Meteorological .
Monthly mean values and extremes of air temperature and pressure .
Monthly mean values or totals of vapour pressure , cloud , wind velocity , rainfall , duration of bright sunshine .
Information as to prevalence of wind directions and different kinds of weather .
In 1908 and 1909 , earth temperatures at 1 and 4 feet , and measurements of solar radiation with an Angstrom pyrheliometer .
Seismological .
Particulars of the principal movements recorded by a Milne seismograph .

