1875 .
] On the Structure and Relations of certain .
59 Dr. Michael Foster has shown that amyloid substance exists largely in the bodies of certain Entozoa , as , for instance , the round worm and the tapeworm .
Again we have a condition which harmonizes with the other conditions under which its accumulation is observed to take place ; for situated as these animals are in the intestinal canal , their position is one which is peculiarly restrictive of a supply of oxygen .
My own observations have revealed its extensive existence in the mantle of the mussel , and Bernard has recognized it in the larvae of flies .
These instances , if not specially illustrative of the point under consideration , nevertheless appear to me to stand in conformity with the previous evidence .
Looking at all the considerations which have been here brought forward , I think we may generalize and say that the amyloid substance is a body which tends to accumulate in certain animal structures under the existence of a limited supply of oxygen , and that it is in consequence of the liver exceptionally receiving the supply of venous blood it does , that the special condition belonging to it is attributable .
I have shown that the undue transmission of oxygenated blood to the organ at once induces an altered state , which is rendered evident by the production of glycosuria .
I consider that another link has been added to the chain of evidence against the glycogenic theory , which I have never wavered in regarding as untenable since the communication of my former researches to the Royal Society .
III .
" On the Structure and Relations of the Alcyonarian ccerulea , with some Account of the Anatomy of a Species of Sarcophyton ; Notes on the Structure of Species of the Genera Millepora , Pocillopora , and Stylaster ; and Remarks on the Affinities of certain Palaeozoic Corals/ ' By H. N. Moseley , M.A. ( Oxon .
) , Naturalist to the ' Challenger ' Expedition .
Communicated by Professor Wyville Thomson , F.R.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff of H.M.S. ' Challenger .
' Received September 28 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) Introduction.\#151 ; The author having undertaken the examination of the Deep-sea Corals dredged during the voyage of H.M.S. Challenger , ' was led to the study of the structure of corals generally , and especially to the examination of the Milleporidae , which seemed of peculiar interest , since they had been determined by Professor Agassiz to be Hydroids , and had been regarded by him as living representatives of the Palaeozoic Rugosa .
Millepora alcicomis was obtained and examined at Bermuda , and another species of Millepora at Zamboangan , Mindanas , Philippine Islands .
The examination of these Millepores was found to be beset with great diffi60 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Nov. 25 , culties , and the present notes on their structure are to be regarded as only preliminary .
Further investigations will be made with specimens which it is hoped will be obtained at the Sandwich Islands .
At Zamboan-gan , Heliopora coeruleawas obtained , and found at once to be an Alcyona-rian .
Its structure is described in full in the paper .
Another Alcyona-rian of the genus Sarcophyton ( Lesson ) was examined for purpose of comparison .
It proved to present special features of interest , and a general description of its anatomy also is therefore given .
Notes are further appended on the anatomy of a species of Pocilloporci obtained at Zam-boangan , and that of a Stylasteracean dredged off the Meangis Islands in 500 fathoms .
Literature of the Subject.\#151 ; Few original works relating to the subjects treated of in this paper were available for reference on board the ' Chal- .
lenger .
' A review of what has been able to be gathered of the recent literature relating to the Tabulate and Rugose Corals and the Aleyona-rians is given , and also a history of the various systematic arrangements to which the Tabulata and Rugosa have been subjected .
Professor Agassiz published his opinion as to the hydroid affinities of the Milleporidse in 1859 ( " Les Animaux des Millepores sont des Aca-lephes et non des Polypes , " Bibl .
Univ. de Geneve , Arch , des Sci. , Mai 1859 ) , and figured the animals of the Millepora alcicornis in his ' Contribution to the Natural History of the United States , ' vol. iii .
plate 15 .
Pourtales observed the animals in company with Agassiz .
He says that one which he saw was " shorter than they are represented to be in the figure , and had five tentacular masses rather than tentacles .
" M.-Edwards considered Professor Agassiz 's evidence as to the hydroid nature of Millepora insufficient , as does also Professor Allman .
Professors Claus , Pourtales , Yerrill , and many other authors accept Agassiz 's conclusion with regard to the Milleporidas , but do not accept his views with regard to the Rugosa .
Professor Yerrill ( Silliman 's American Journal , 1872 , vol. iii .
pp. 187 , 194 ) found that Pocillopora , a genus with extremely well-marked tabulae , was a true Hexactinian , and showed that the presence of tabulae , the character relied on by Professor Agassiz , was of little importance .
Pourtales and L. Ludwig have come to the conclusion that the tetrameral arrangement in the Rugosa is merely apparent , and that the original arrangement in the young coral was hexameral .
Professor Martin Duncan arrived at similar conclusions from the examination of annulata .
K unth , however , still adheres to the tetrameral primary division .
Lind-strom , the first discoverer of the opercular apparatus of certain Rugosa , compares these structures with skeletal structures of Primnoa .
The latest paper on the classification of Corals is by M. Dollfus ( Comptes Rendus de l'Acad .
des Sciences , t. lxxx .
no. 10 , 8 Mars 1875 , pp. 681-683 ) .
M. Dollfus connects together the genera Heliolites and with Heliopora and Seriatoporaby means of Pocillopora , considering all these 31875 .
] Structure and Relations of certain Corals .
61 cto be Hydroids .
Favosites , with many other genera of Palaeozoic Corals , 3 he considers to be a Bryozoon .
Methods employed.\#151 ; The corals examined were hardened in alcohol or j chromic acid , decalcified , and cut into fine vertical and horizontal sections .
Sections of the hard parts were rubbed down in the usual manner .
1 Portions of Heliopora ccerulea were also examined in the fresh state .
On the Structure of Heliopora caerulea.\#151 ; Heliopora ccerulea was found I growing in abundance on reefs near Zamboangan at low tide .
The polyps were never seen expanded , though pieces of the coral were carefully transferred to a glass vessel without being removed from the water .
The living coral is perforated in all directions by a parasitic Annelid fLeucodora ' ) .
The corallum of Heliopora is , remarkable for the tubular character of its coenenchym , which consists of a series of tubes arranged side by side at right angles to the surface of the coral , open above but closed below by successive transverse partitions or " tabulae .
" The calicles are tubes essentially similar to the tubes of the coenenchym , but larger .
They are said by M.-Edwards to have twelve septa appearing as plications of the wrall of their cavities .
The number is , however , very variable .
The tabulae of the calicle are exactly similar in structure to those of the coenenchym .
The hard tissue is composed of doubly refracting calcareous matter , which has a half-crystalline , half-fibrous structure .
It is disposed in a series of systems vertically to the surface of the corallum , the axes of which systems lie in the interspaces between the coenenchymal tubes .
In each system the fibres of hard tissue are disposed radially around the central vertical axes , and at the same time with an upward inclination at an equal angle all around .
The colony of Heliopora is developed entirely by budding .
In a growing point of the corallum the coenenchymal tubes are widely open and polygonal in outline .
New calicles are formed by the junction of a number of tubes around a central tube or tubes arrested in growth which form a base .
The outer walls only of the surrounding tubes continue to grow and form the lateral wall of the calicle .
The newly formed calicle thus has tubular prolongations at its base , and the so-called septa are , in the main , due to the circumstance that the wall is composed of a series of fused curved outer walls of tubes .
The calcareous matter is deposited in a finely fibrous calciferous tissue , connected apparently with the formation of which is a layer of connective tissue which everywhere covers the hard parts .
There is no trace of the corallum of Heliopora being composed of fused spicules as in the case of Corallium and Tubipora* .
* The fact that the corallum is so formed in Tubipora seems to have been hitherto unknown ( Claus , ' Grundziige der Zoologie , ' 3\#174 ; Aufl .
p. 204 ) .
It is plainly shown at the mouth of any growing tube in spirit specimens .
Professor Wyville Thomson drew my attention to the fact , an account of which he thinks has been published by Professor Perceval Wright in the ' Annals and Magazine of Natural History .
' 62 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Nov. 25,1 The deep blue colouring of the corallum of is due to an amorphous colouring-matter insoluble in strong hydrochloric acid , but soluble in acidified alcohol .
It forms an intensely blue solution of a sul-f phate of copper colour , which transmits the blue and part of the green !
only of the spectrum .
In the soft tissues of Heliopora an ectoderm , entoderm , and mesoderm !
are to be distinguished .
The ectoderm is composed of club-shaped cells ; 1 it has the usual disposition .
Small oval nematocysts are present in it and in the upper part of the mesodermic layer beneath .
The mesoderm ' consists of three histological elements , homogeneous connective tissue , i layers of connective-tissue cells , and finely fibrous calciferous tissue , j Prolongations of the two former form sacs lining the coenenchymal tubes and calicles .
The sacs are further lined by the entoderm , which consists of spherical cells containing yellow pigment , as in other Alcyonarians . !
Only a surface-layer in Heliopora is living .
Hardly any soft tissue is to j be found in the tubes beneath the last-formed tabula .
The sacs lining the tubes do not communicate anywhere directly with the exterior , but are connected with one another above , and with the calicular cavities , by wide transverse canals .
The superficial tissues are permeated by smaller canals .
The polyps of Heliopora have eight mesenteries and eight lobed tentacles .
In the contracted state of the polyp the tentacles are completely introverted , and rest in the inter-mesenterial spaces .
The stomach is like that of any other Alcyonarian .
E-etractor muscles are present , which are disposed with regard to the mesenterial plates as in Pennatulids , showing a " Dorsalfach " and " Ventralfach .
" No definite protractor muscles were observed to be present .
No regular arrangement of the eight mesenteries with regard to the twelve so-called septa could be found .
Eight mesenterial filaments are present , two of which appear to be longer than the others .
In three individuals only of the single colony examined were ova found\#151 ; in one four ova , in the others only one .
The ova are attached to the mesenteries .
The four ova were attached to four separate mesenteries .
No male elements were found .
The colonies are probably unisexual .
The arrangement of the polyps in the colony is somewhat irregular ; but the " Dorsalfach " seems always to be uppermost in the vertical plates of which the coral consists , the polyps being thus placed back to back .
On the Structure of Sareophyton , sp.\#151 ; An Alcyonarian was obtained at the Admiralty Islands which agrees in every respect with Lesson 's genus Sarcophyton ( M.-Edwards , Hist. Nat. des Corall .
t. i. p. 22 ) .
A genus called Sarcophyton is , however , cited by Claus as having been formed by Sars .
The Alcyonarian is mushroom-shaped .
Two kinds of individuals , zooids and polyps , compose the colony ; the stem is composed of large tubes ( " sinus " ) , the prolongations of polyp-cavities .
The polyps offer no marked peculiarities ; their retractor and protractor muscles are arranged as in Pennatulids with regard to the mesenteries .
They have two meM875 .
] Structure and Relations of certain Corals .
63 Bjenterial filaments longer than the rest .
The zooids have eight short ynesenteries , four of which , the " dorsal " and " ventral , " are deeper than )the rest .
They have two mesenterial filaments , the dorsal only .
They have no tubercles and no generative organs .
They have a simple globular stomach , communicating by a short tube with the exterior , and lined with [ long cilia .
A sarcosome of transparent homogeneous connective-tissue , [ containing small ramified nucleate corpuscles , connects the polyp- and zooid-cavities ; these cavities are connected by vertical and horizontal systems of canals .
The vertical canals are continuous with the bottoms lof the zooid-cavities ; they form networks ] of canals in the sarcosome .
The sarcosome contains elongate tuberculate spicules of the usual form , which are largest and most thickly set in the stem of the Smaller spicules are present in the tentacles of the polyps .
The spicules show a special sheath of transparent tissue , in which structure was not seen .
The " Dorsalf acher " of the polyps and zooids have a general direction towards the central axis of the stem and centre of the pileus ; but both polyps and zooids are often more or less twisted on their axes .
On the Structure of Millepora.\#151 ; The examination of Millepora is beset with serious difficulties ; the present notes are merely preliminary .
The calcareous coenenchymal tissue of Millepora differs extremely from that of ffeliopora in being reticulate , not tubular : in histological structure it is similar to Heliopora .
The coral has only a thin superficial layer of soft living tissue , composed of a network of canals filled with cells resembling those of the canals of Alcyonarians , and covered externally with nematocysts .
Two kinds of nematocysts , small and large , are present ; the small ones are confined to the tentacles .
Two kinds of polyps are present , large and small .
Tentacles are present in both kinds ; they appear to be four in number and compound .
They are simply retracted by means of muscular fibres , which are arranged round the base of the cylindrical stomach radially , but , as far as has yet been seen , without any disposition in definite groups .
No mesenteries have been seen .
On the Structure of Pocillopora ( P. acuta).\#151 ; The corallum is very dense and composed of definite prisms of calcareous matter , which show a transverse banding , somewhat like that of striped muscular fibres .
The polyps have twelve tentacles , six large and six small , and twelve mesenteries with long mesenterial filaments coiled up .
A very thin layer of living tissue covers the corallum ; it is devoid of canals .
On the Structure of Stylaster.\#151 ; A Stylaster dredged in 500 fathoms was found to have the tentacles disposed between the calcareous septa , as was shown to be the case in Allopora oculina by Sars ( Porh .
Selsk .
Chr. 1872 , p. 115 ) .
The septa are twenty-two in number , and the tentacles also twenty-two .
The stomach has a conical projecting mouth or proboscis , as seen by Sars in Allopora oculina .
It has apparently no inferior outlet .
There are no well-defined mesenteries , and no mesenterial filaments .
A very open network of soft tissue surrounds the stomach and tube 64 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Nov. 25 , leading to it from the circle of the tentacles .
Suspended in this reticulate tissue are the testes , large sacs filled with spermatic cells disposed sometimes in one , sometimes in two vertical rows ; they occupy the interior of the ampullae .
These corals are dioecious .
resembles Stylaster most closely in structure , and is also dioecious .
Vegetable Parasites.\#151 ; The corallum of both Millepora and Pocillopora is permeated by fine ramified canals , formed by parasitic vegetable organisms of the same nature as those described by Dr. Carpenter and Professor Kolliker as occurring in the shells of mollusks \amp ; c. The organisms were found in abundant fructification ; they are green , but otherwise appear to be fungi , as are the parasites of shells \amp ; c. Similar parasites are to be found in various coralla from widely distant parts of the world .
Conclusions .
Heliopora is most undoubtedly an Alcyonarian .
The number of its mesenteries , and the distribution with regard to them of the retractor muscles , the form and number of its tentacles , are decisive evidence in the matter ; and this evidence is borne out by almost every item of histological structure .
In the peculiar manner in which the retraction of the tentacles takes place , viz. by introversion , Heliopora seems to differ from all other Alcyonarians except Corallium* .
Prom both Corallium and Tubipora , Heliopora differs in that the hard tissue of its corallum shows no signs of being composed of fused spicules , but in its histological structure most closely resembles Zoantharian Corals .
With the Milleporidae and with the Pocilloporidae and Seriatoporidse Heliopora is allied solely on account of its possession of tabulae .
Now that an Alcyonarian is added to the list of various A nthozoa possessing these peculiar structures , their presence becomes of less classifactory importance even than Professor Verrill proved it to be .
There can hardly be a doubt that Seriatopora will prove to be , like Pocillopora , a Zoantharian ; and Millepora is certainly very different in structure from Heliopora .
Heliopora thus stands quite alone amongst modem forms ; and in the peculiar structure of its cellular coenenchym it is so remarkable that it is unlikely that on examination of the soft parts of other corals , at present known from their coralla only , any near relatives of it will be discovered .
Amongst extinct forms , however , Heliopora has several close allies , and the genus itself existed in the Cretaceous period .
The genus Polytremacis differs apparently only in the more perfect development of the so-called septa , which reach to the centres of the tabulae .
The genus occurs in the Chalk , Greensand , and in Eocene formations .
Heliopora has , further , a very closely allied palaeozoic representative in Heliolites , in which the ccenenchymal tubes are provided with very closely placed tabulae .
* I have found no information on this point in any of the text-books ; but in Schmarda 's * Zoologie ' there is a figure of Cor allium , copied from Lacaze-Duthiers 's ' Hist. Nat. du Corail , ' in which the tentacles are drawn introverted as they are in Heliopora .
'11875 .
] Structure and Relations of certain Corals .
65 The three genera Heliopora , Polytremacis , and Heliolites differ from I one another to so slight a degree that they are placed under the one I genus Heliopora by Quenstedt .
To include these three genera , a new family of Alcyonarians must be formed , for which the term Helioporidae appears most suitable , which family may from the recent species be thus jj characterized:\#151 ; Family Heliopobim ; . .
A compact corallum present , composed of a fibro-crystalline calcareous tissue as in Madreporaria .
Corallum consisting of an abundant tubular ccenenchym , and with calicles having an irregular number of lateral ridges resembling septa .
* Calicles and coenenchymal tubes closed below by a succession of transverse partitions .
Polyps completely retractile , with tentacles when in retraction introverted .
Mouths of the sacs lining the ccenenchymal tubes closed with a layer of soft tissue , but communicating with one another and with the calicular cavities by a system of transverse canals .
The structure of the coenenchym of the Helioporidse is entirely unique amongst Anthozoa ; no other form has a coenenchym composed thus of a series of long tubes packed side by side , and lying parallel to the calicular tubes and at right angles to the surface .
It is to be remarked that the tubes are like the calicles in being open above , that they have walls composed in exactly the same manner as those of the calicles , and that they are closed below at intervals in the same way by exactly similar tabulae .
Further , the soft tissues lining the cavities of the coenenchymal tubes are identical in structure with those lining the calicular cavities , and the same transverse system of canals connects the summits of the tubes with one another and with the summits of the calicular cavities .
It seems by no means improbable that the ccenenchym here is composed of the tubes of absorbed polyps or zooids which have lost the rudimentary organs , which they still possess in such a form as Sarcophy-ton , and have become mere tubular cavities , whose openings to the exterior even have been obliterated ; it seems impossible otherwise to account for the presence of the successions of tabulae in the coenenchymal tubes .
The foregoing considerations are suggested by the circumstance that a series of fossil corals , grouped by M.-Edwards under the Tabulata , appear most probably to have been Alcyonarians as well as Heliopora .
The genus Chcetetes was considered by Keyserling to have belonged to the Alcyonarians , because of the absence of septa in it , and the mode in which its polyps are grouped ; but Milne-Edwards retains it amongst the Zoantharians , because of its close resemblance to the Favositidae , in which the presence of septa is regarded as conclusive in deciding against Alcyonarian affinity .
The presence of calcareous septa , however , must now be considered a character of less importance than it formerly was .
As is seen in the case of Heliopora pseudo-septa may exist , which do not necessarily correspond in any way , in disposition or VOL. xxiv .
i\gt ; 66 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Nov. 25 , number , with the membranous mesenteries .
In and the calcareous septa are obviously formed as iufoldings of the margin of the calicles .
Here the septa are between , instead of opposite to the tentacles ; and membranous mesenteries appear to be absent , or at all events rudimentary only .
In the Favositidae the septa seem to have been no more perfect than they are in , and to have been most variable in number , but often twelve , as also in Heliopora .
M.-Edwards describes from 10 to 12 septa in Fgothlandica .
In Micheliniq favosa 30 to 40 subequal septal striae are to be made out at the upper margin of the wall of the calicle .
I cannot refer to specimens ; but it seems not unlikely that the septa in the Favositidse were pseudo-septa as in Heliopora , and that these coralla were formed by Alcyonarians , the perforations in the walls having transmitted transverse canals like those of Heliopora and Sarcophyton , and the coralla being free of tabular coenenchym , because none of the polyps were aborted as in Heliopora .
Some Favositidse seem to have formed a compound colony , consisting of polyps and zooids , as Favosites Forbesii , where a few large cells are seen set amongst numerous surrounding small ones .
Heliolites seems to a certain extent to form a transition stage between a condition such as that in Favosites Forbesii and the condition in Heliopora ; for in Heliolites , the more ancient form , the coenenchymal tubes are regularly hexagonal , and apparently much more nearly equal in breadth to the calicles than in Heliopora .
In the growing points of Heliopora the hard parts are made up of a series of open , often hexagonal tubes , and resemble Favosites in their surface aspect .
In Heliopora the transverse canals pass over notches in the summits of the walls of the coenenchymal tubes and calicles , in order to place these cavities in communication with one another .
In Favosites the calcareous tissue surrounded the transverse canals , and the perforations in the walls of the calicles were thus produced .
If Favosites was an Alcyonarian , was of course also of that group .
The genus Alveolites amongst the Favositidse is peculiar for the possession of three tooth-like prominences as the only representatives of septa .
One tooth , well developed , is situate inside the calicle ; on that side of each calicle which lies externally in the colony , and opposed to this on the tip of the calicle next the interior of the colony , are a pair of rudimentary teeth .
This arrangement reminds us at once of the distinction of dorsal and ventral mesenterial interspaces in Alcyonarians , and the direction of all the " Dorsalfacher " in Sarcophyton and Heliopora towards the central axis of the colony .
In Alveolites the two teeth seem to correspond to the " Dorsalfach , " and the single one to the " Ventralfach , " the two teeth having occupied the space devoid of retractor muscles .
Kolliker describes a series of teeth as existing at the margin of the calicle in Benilla , which follow a constant law in their relation to the septa .
When only one tooth is present it is opposite the " Dorsalfach ; " when three , one is opposite the " Dorsalfach , " and the two others 1875 .
] Structure and Relations of certain Corals .
opposite the lateral " Ventralfach .
" In Alveolites the one tooth is ventral instead of dorsal .
In Syringopora the septa seem to be very much of the same nature as in Heliopora ; and in Heliopora , as already described , the tabulae are not merely transverse floors , but the bottoms of cups of hard tissue fitted inside the older tubes and calicles .
In Syringopora this condition of the tabulae is much more marked , and the corallum appears as if formed of a series of calicles fitted one within another .
A difficulty appears to arise from the peculiar mode of the development of the calicles by budding in Heliopora , the foldings of the walls of the calicles being due , to a considerable extent at least , to the formation of these walls from a circle of coenenchymal tubes .
The septa are , however , not entirely formed in this way .
It would of course be of great interest to see whether the primitive calicle , in the developing Heliopora colony , forms calcareous septa .
Heliopora having so commonly twelve septa , and in conjunction with these eight mesenteries , it was at first thought that here some key would be found to the elucidation of the question of the relations of the tetrameral corals to the Hexactinians ; but no definite arrangement of the eight mesenteries to the twelve septa could be discovered .
Ludwig and Pourtales have concluded that the tetrameral condition in the Rugosa is the result of a modification of an originally hexameral arrangement\#151 ; that the Rugosa are , in fact , modifications of the Hexactinian type .
Kunth , however , using similar methods , has come to an opposite conclusion .
Now that it is known that an Alcyonarian exists which constructs a solid calcareous corallum , in histological structure scarcely , if at all , to be distinguished from that of many Madreporaria , and that this Alcyonarian also possesses marked calcareous septa , which septa show , notwithstanding the octameral arrangement of the mesenteries , a hexameral disposition in being often twelve in number , it seems that the question of the affinities of the Rugosa may fairly be reopened .
The presence of well-marked calcareous septa in Cryptohelia and other Stylasteridse ( which septa are equal to the tentacles in number , but nevertheless to be regarded , like those of Heliopora , as pseudo-septa ) is significant .
The marked tetrameral arrangement of the septa in Rugosa , and the presence in many forms of tabulae , are certainly characters not opposed to the alliance of these corals with the Alcyonarians ; and the fact that paired series of opercula occur in certain Rugosa , which are compared by Lindstrom , their discoverer , to the skeletal structures of certain Primnoce , seems to be evidence in favour of such an alliance of the very strongest kind .
In no Madreporaria do paired hard structures , at all resembling those of Primnoce or of Gonio occur .
The opercular structures in the coralla of Cryptohelia and Lepidopora can scarcely be regarded as comparable with the opercula of Rugosa .
The structures are merely folds of the lip of the calicle , and are continuous with it and immovable , not movable separate articulate structures .
Many 68 Mr. H. N. Moseley on the [ Nov. 25 , Rugosa show an arrangement which may well be compared to the distinction of dorsal and ventral regions in Alcyonaria .
The most important distinctive character of the Rugosa appears to be the occurrence in them , alone of all Anthozoa , of intracalicinal gemmation * .
With regard to Sarcophyton , the fact that compound colonies composed of multitudes of zooids , combined with a lesser number of sexual polyps , occur amongst the Alcyonidse , as well as amongst the Pennatulidse , in which they are so well known from Kolliker 's great work , appears to be new to science .
That in such colonies and in Heliopora the " Dorsal-facher " are all turned towards the axis of the colony and directed upwards is also a new fact .
The zooids in their structure seem to conform very closely to those of Pennatulids ( Sarcophy , e. g. ) ; but to the list of distinctive differences between the zooids and polyps of Pennatulids given by Kolliker , viz. the absence in the : zooids of tentacles , the presence of two mesenterial filaments ( the dorsal ones ) , the absence of generative organs , and the shortening of the lypogastric region to such an extent that it fuses with the anastomosing canal-system\#151 ; to these marks of distinction must be added , in the case of the zooids of Scirco-phyton , the fact that four of the mesenteries , the dorsal and ventral pairs , are deeper than the others .
It seems extremely difficult to reconcile the extraordinary succession of the mesenteries in the development of the Zoantharians , discovered by Lacaze-Duthiers , with the facts presented by Alcyonarians .
Did the development of the eight mesenteries of Alcyonaria correspond with that of the first eight mesenteries formed in Actiniadse , the first mesenteries formed would be either the lateral dorsal or lateral ventral ; but these are those which are most rudimentary in the zooids of Moreover the mesenterial filaments of the two lateral pairs of septa are in the development of Actiniadse the first to appear , and not the dorsal , which are longest in the Alcyonarian polyps and most persistent in the zooids .
Apparently , however , development in Alcyonarians follows a different course .
In Halysceptrum , the development of which has been examined by Kolliker , the eight mesenteries appear from the very first .
In ( Busch ) , one of the Edwardsice , according to Metschnikoff , the larva has , in its earliest stage , eight tentacles and two mesenterial filaments .
The peculiarities presented by the Stylasteridse have struck many observers .
M.-Edwards and Haime placed these corals ( Stylasteracea ) under the Oculinidse .
Gray , however , established a family ( Stylasteridae ) for the genus Stylasteralone .
Pourtales , who in his ' Deep-Sea Corals ' dwells upon the many peculiarities of the corallum of this family , places under it the genera Allopora , Stylaster , Distichopora , Cryptohelia f , Lepi* An examination of the Cornulariadae , the only recent solitary Alcyonarians , might very possibly throw light on the question of the affinities of the Rugosa .
t Pourtales has remarked that the genus of M.-Edwards and Ilaime I 1875 .
] Structure and Relations of certain Corals .
69 dopora , and Errina .
The peculiarities in the structure of the soft parts , and the relations of the tentacles to the septa , described in this paper as occurring in a Stylaster and a Cryptohelia , and the similar facts observed by Sars in the genus Allopora , strengthen the facts brought forward by Pourtales , with regard to the coralla , in a very potent manner .
I hope to make a close study of the structure of Stylaster .
The apparent absence of mesenteries is most remarkable , and a similar condition appears to occur also in Millepora .
The number of tentacles and septa in the Stylasteridse seems hardly to follow the usual hexameral law .
In the species of Stylaster examined by me there are invariably twenty-two septa and twenty-two tentacles .
In Stylaster , Pourtales describes the septa as being in number from nine to twelve , most frequently eleven .
In Allopora miniata the septa are from seven to ten , generally eight .
Cryptohelia has commonly sixteen .
With regard to the affinities of the Milleporidae , no certain conclusion can be arrived at from the few facts yet ascertained .
I hope to obtain specimens at Hawaii in sexually mature condition .
H.M.S. * Challenger , ' North Pacific .
21st July , 1875 .
Postscript , v Since the above was written I have been able to refer at Honolulu to Prof. Lacaze-Duthiers 's ' Histoire Naturelle du Corail .
' I therefore add a few notes .
In Corallium the contracted polyp presents externally at the surface eight lobes coloured red .
When the polyp is expanded , these lobes form a coloured cup with eight dentations at its margin , which surrounds the lower part of the expanded colourless polyp ( see pi .
2 of Prof. Lacaze-Duthiers 's work ) .
The eight lobes described as closing the mouth of the calicle in the contracted polyp of Heliopora probably occupy a similar position , and have a similar appearance in the expanded condition of the polyp .
In Corallium the pinnae or barbules of the tentacles are all severally introverted ( l. c. p. 57 ) , as well as the tentacles themselves .
In Heliopora this appears not to be the case .
In the hard tissue of Corallium boring vegetable parasites occur , as observed in Millepora and PociTlopora .
I have further been able to refer to Dana 's great work on Corals in the splendid collection of scientific works in the Government Library at Honolulu , and to other works relating to Heliopora .
Dana states ( U.S. Expl .
Exped .
vol. vii .
Zoophytes , J. D. Dana , Philad .
1846 , p. 539 ) that the blue colour of Heliopora is of animal origin and appears indistinguishable from the genus Cryptohelia of the same authors .
Endohelia is founded on a Japanese species .
The 'Challenger ' dredged a coral certainly not distinguishable from Cryptohelia generically off the coast of Japan .
70 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , j is lost on immersion of the coral in nitric acid .
The colouring-matter \ was not analyzed by Mr. Gilliman .
In the Atlas of the ' Voyage de 1'Astrolabe , ' Zoophytes , pi .
20 .
figs. 12 , 13 , 14 , the expanded polyps of Heliopora are figured by MM .
Hombron and Jacquinot .
In fig. 14 sixteen very short , simple , conical tentacles are shown , in fig. 13 only fifteen tentacles .
The figures are evidently very erroneous .
The corresponding description I have been unable to refer to , the volume containing it being wanting in the Hawaiian Government copy .
In the Zoology of the 'Voyage de l'Uranie , ' Quoy and Gaimardr Paris , 1824 , p. 656 , is a description of the polyps of ( .
) ccerulea .
The expanded polyps have radiated tentacles , and are said to entirely hide the corallum when they are in an expanded condition .
Experiments proved that communication between the animals is somewhat imperfect , since a stimulus applied to any part of the colony caused only the polyps in that immediate neighbourhood to retract themselves .
In the plates of the ' Voyage de 1'IIranie , ' pi .
96 .
figs. 5 , 6 , 7 , Heliopora is figured , showing in fig. 5 the appearance of the coral in the fresh state , but without any representation of the polyps .
November 30 , 1875 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. W. Pole , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the'Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of .\#163 ; 274 11s .
10 carried from the preceding year , amount to \#163 ; 4915 19s .
11c ? .
; and that the total expenditure in the same period amounts to \#163 ; 4672 9s .
11c ? .
, leaving a balance at the Bankers ' of \#163 ; 220 13s .
8c ? .
, and \#163 ; 24 6s .
4c ? .
in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
The Secretary read the following Lists :\#151 ;

