122 Dr. J. Stenkouse on Amido-derivatives of Orcin .
[ Jan. 23 , IY " Account of a Meteor that fell on the ' Seven Stones ' Lightship " in a Letter from the Secretary to the Corporation of the Trinity House , addressed to the President .
Received January 9 , 18/ 3 .
Trinity House , London , E.C. , 9th January , 1873 .
SiE___I am directed to acquaint you that on the 13th of November last , at 2 a.m. , a meteor burst against the ' Seven Stones ' light-vessel belonging to this Corporation , and moored about 9-|- miles E. by N. of the Scffly Islands ; and that it has been reported that the watch were struck senseless for a short period , seeing nothing before the shock , but that , on recovery , balls of fire like large stars were falling in the water like splendid fireworks , and that the decks were covered with cinders , which crushed under the sailors ' feet as they walked .
It appeared , the men said , as if something was passing swiftly and met with the obstruction of the vessel and burst .
The superintendent reports that the men say there was a very decided smell of brimstone , but add that they did not mention that until he asked them .
There is reason to fear that the cinders were all washed off the decks by the rain and sea before daylight ; and it happened also unfortunately that the men did not think to observe the compasses .
The Elder Brethren have great doubts whether any more accurate account of the phenomenon than the foregoing is obtainable ; at the same time they direct me to report the matter to you , conjoined with the assurance that if any important or interesting scientific question is likely to be elucidated by further inquiry , they will have great pleasure in causing special questions to be put to the men , or in affording any member of the Royal Society facilities for investigation .
I am , Sir , Your most humble Servant , Sir G. B. Airy , K.C.B. , Sfc .
Sfc .
Robin Allen , Secretary .
January 23 , 1873 .
T. ARCHER HIRST , Ph. D. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read : I. " Contributions to the History of the Orcins .
No. III .
Amido-derivatives of Orcin"* By John Stenhouse , LL. D. , E.R.S. , \amp ; c. Received November 7 , 1872 .
In a paper published in March 1871+ , I stated that I had made some experiments on the action of reducing agents on trinitro-orcinic acic anc * A preliminary note on this subject appeared in the ' Chemical News , vol. xxiii p. 292 , and Zeits .
Chem. vol. vii .
p. 414 .
f Proe .
Iloy .
Soe .
vol. xix .
p. 410 .
1873 .
] Dr. J. Stenhouse on Amido-derivatives of Orcin .
123 trinitro-resorcinic acid ; but as Dr. Schreder* has since published an account of some of the amido-derivatives of the latter substance , I have not pursued my investigations further in that direction , but confined myself to an examination of the products obtained from trinitro-orcinic acid .
Amido-diimido-orcin , C7 H. ( NH2 ) ( NH)2 02.\#151 ; This compound , which has the properties of a base , is formed by the oxidation of triamido-orcin , and is most conveniently obtained in a pure state by decomposing a solution of the acetate with a slight excess of ammonia .
The most advantageous method of preparing the base is to reduce tri-nitro-orcin with sodium-amalgam , and to oxidize the alkaline solution of triamido-orcin by exposure to the air .
The details of the process are as follows :\#151 ; One part of trinitro-orcin and forty or fifty parts of water are placed in a bottle furnished with a caoutchouc cork , and fragments of sodium-amalgam containing about 3 per cent , of sodium are gradually introduced and agitated with the solution , which first acquires a brown colour from the formation of an intermediate amido-product , probably analogous to picramic acid , but becomes colourless as soon as the trinitro-orcin is completely reduced .
The solution should be cooled from time to time , as considerable heat is generated during the reaction .
When the solution containing triamido-orcin and sodic hydrate has become cold , it is poured into a large flask and agitated briskly ; by this means the triamido-orcin is oxidized to amido-diimido-orcin and the solution assumes a magnificent blue colour : C7 H5 ( NH2)3 o2 + o=c7 Hg ( NH2 ) ( NH)2 o2 + oh2 .
A few seconds ' agitation is sufficient , as if it be continued after the blue colour is fully developed , the amido-diimido-orcin in the strongly alkaline solution undergoes further oxidation and is destroyed .
On strongly acidulating the blue solution with sulphuric or hydrochloric acid , the corresponding salt of amido-diimido-orcin is precipitated .
Instead of directly agitating the colourless solution with air , it may be first neutralized or rendered very slightly acid with hydrochloric acid , cooled , and then rendered alkaline with ammonia .
If this solution be now agitated in the manner before described it becomes filled with minute green needles of amido-diimido-orcin .
Although the first method gives the best results when carefully conducted , it requires considerable experience to stop the oxidation at the precise point when the whole of the triamido-orcin is oxidized to amido-diimido-orcin , and before the latter becomes destroyed .
With the ammoniacal solution there is far less danger of over oxidation .
Trinitro-orcin is also reduced by treatment with tin and hydrochloric acid , or zinc and hydrochloric or sulphuric acid .
One part of trinitro-orcin and four parts of granulated tin are heated in a capacious flask with eight measures of concentrated hydrochloric acid diluted with sixteen measures of water .
In a short time a powerful reaction takes * Ann. Chem. Pharm. vol. clviii .
p. 244 .
124 Dr. J. Stenhouse on Amido-derivatives of Orcin .
[ Jan. 23 , place , so that it is advisable to remove the flask from the source of heat in order to prevent the contents from boiling over .
When the action has become somewhat moderate , the solution is boiled until it is colourless , then diluted with water and the tin precipitated by hydrosulphurie acid .
The clear solution acquires a purple tint on standing , and deposits large dark-coloured prisms of amido-diimido-orcin hydrochlorate , or the amido-diimido-orcin may be obtained directly by adding a slight excess of ammonia to the filtrate from the tin sulphide and oxidizing by agitation in the presence of air , when the base immediately separates in minute green needles .
Trinitro-orcin and granulated zinc are boiled in a flask with twenty or thirty parts of water , and hydrochloric acid added in small quantities at a time until the solution becomes almost colourless .
The clear liquid , poured from the excess of zinc and allowed to cool , is rendered slightly alkaline by ammonia and exposed to the air .
As soon as the triamido-orcin is oxidized , which may be known by the brown colour of the product , an excess of hydrochloric acid is added to dissolve the zinc oxide and precipitate the amido-diimido-orcin as hydrochloride .
The yield is , however , considerably less than when sodium-amalgam is employed as the reducing agent .
The amido-diimido-orcin sulphate or hydrochlorate obtained by any of the above processes is readily decomposed by treatment with a slight excess of dilute ammonia , leaving the free base in an impure state .
This should then be dissolved in warm dilute acetic acid , filtered , and precipitated by a slight excess of ammonia .
Two or three solutions and reprecipitations are sufficient to render it pure .
Pure amido-diimido-orcin crystallizes in small needles , which have a dark green metallic lustre by reflected light .
They are insoluble in alcohol , ether , and benzol , and almost insoluble in water and dilute ammonia .
Strong ammonia only dissolves the base in small quantity , yielding a pale blue solution , but it is readily soluble in a solution of sodic hydrate , with a fine deep blue colour ; the solution , however , when boiled , loses its colour , ammonia being at the same time evolved .
The base gives off ammonia when heated , and leaves a carbonaceous residue very difficult of combustion .
As might be expected , when amido-diimido-orcin is treated with sodium-amalgam , it is reconverted into triamido-orcin .
Analysis of amido-diimido-orcin.\#151 ; '290 grm. substance , dried in , lost -025 grm. when dried at 100 ' , equivalent to 8'62 per cent. I. .140 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave *234 grm. carbonic anhydride and -075 grm. water .
II .
*290 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave *487 grm. carbonic anhydride and *152 grm. water .
1873 .
] Dr. J. Stenhouse on Amido-derivatives of Orcin .
Theory .
I. II .
Mean .
C7 = 84 = 45-40 45-59 45-77 45-68 = 11 = 5-95 5-95 5-81 5-88 n3 = 42 = 22-70 03 = 48 = 25-95 . .
, , 185 100-00 It will be seen that the results of the analyses agree with the formula ( ch3 ) ( NH2 ) ( NH)2 ( HO)2+II2 O for the substance dried at 100 ' , and the formula for the substance dried ivcicvo is probably C6 ( CH3 ) ( NH2 ) ( NH)2 ( HO)2 + 2H2 0 , as it requires 8-87 per cent , water .
Triamido-ordn.\#151 ; The colourless solution obtained by the reduction of trinitro-orcin with tin and hydrochloric acid , after removal of the tin by sulphydric acid , appears to contain triamido-orcin hydrochloride along with excess of hydrochloric acid .
On concentrating the solution at 100 ' much of the triamido-orcin is decomposed and a considerable amount of ammonium chloride formed ; whilst , although long needles of triamido-orcin hydrochloride are obtained by evaporating it in a vacuum , yet , owing to their great solubility and the readiness with which they absorb water and deliquesce , the salt has not yet been obtained in a state fit for analysis .
On moistening the crystals of this hydrochloride with ammonia , they become almost instantaneously converted into the metallic green needles of the amido-diimido-orcin .
If a current of sulphuretted hydrogen be passed through a solution of ammonium sulphydrate in which amido-diimido-orcin is suspended , the latter rapidly loses its colour and becomes converted into a sandy deposit consisting of colourless crystals .
These are apparently triamido-orcin , and may be washed by decantation with a dilute solution of ammonium sulphydrate , in which they are but slightly soluble .
These crystals rapidly acquire the metallic green lustre of amido-diimido-orcin when exposed to the air , and are readily soluble in dilute acids .
The hydrochloric-acid solution behaves in a manner precisely similar to that obtained by the reduction of trinitro-orcin with tin and hydrochloric acid , becoming deep red , and depositing crystals of amido-diimido-orcin hydrochloride when exposed to the air .
Amido-diimido-orcin hydrochloride.\#151 ; The hydrochloi'ide obtained in the preparation of amido-diimido-orcin , as described in the earlier part of this communication , may be purified by crystallization from hot wTater ; but as heat decomposes solutions of the salts of this base , it is better to precipitate a cold solution of the acetate by a slight excess of hydrochloric acid , in which the hydrochloride is but slightly soluble : the precipitate should be thoroughly washed with alcohol , pressed , and dried .
Pure amido-diimido-orcin hydrochloride crystallizes in different ways , according to the circumstances under which the crystals are formed .
As 126 Dr. J. Stenhouse on Amido-derivatives of Orcin .
[ Jan. 23 , produced directly by adding hydrochloric acid to the blue solution of the base in caustic soda obtained from trinitro-orcin by sodium-amalgam , it forms long silky needles of a brownish-red colour : an aqueous solution of the acetate or hydrochloride precipitated by an excess of hydrochloric acid yields a mixture of these needles with rhomboidal plates ; the latter are purple by reflected light , and of an olive-green colour by transmitted light .
The slow oxidation of the hydrochloric-acid solution of triamido-orcin obtained by means of tin and hydrochloric acid yields dark-coloured short thick prisms .
The hydrochloride is insoluble in alcohol and ether , moderately soluble in cold water , and readily in boiling water , although the latter causes partial decomposition .
Its aqueous solution is precipitated almost entirely on acidulating it with hydrochloric acid ; but the salt is soluble in concentrated hydrochloric acid , especially when warm , forming a purple solution .
On boiling this the salt is rapidly decomposed and the colour changes to a dirty green .
Analysis of amido-diimido-orcin hydrochloride.\#151 ; *428 grm. substance , dried in vacuo , lost *035 grm. when heated to 100 ' , corresponding to 8*41 per cent , water .
I. -255 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave *180 grm. argentic chloride .
II .
*232 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave -164 grm. argentic chloride .
III .
-344 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave *242 grm. argentic chloride .
Theory .
I. II .
HI .
Mean .
CLH10N3O2 = 168 82-55 . . . .
Crf = 35-5 17-45 17-47 17-49 17-40 17-45 : 203-5 100-00 These results correspond nearly to the formula O. ( OH , ) ( NH , ) ( NH ) , ( HO J HC1 for the substance dried at 100 ' ; and the formula 0 , ( OH , ) ( NH , ) ( NH ) , ( HO ) , HC1+ H , O requires 8-13 per cent , water , and would therefore appear to be that of the substance dried in vacuo .
Amido-diimido-orcin sulphate.\#151 ; This salt is readily prepared by precipitating a dilute solution of the acetate with sulphuric acid , when it forms minute lustrous plates which are purple by reflected light .
By slow crystallization from a hot aqueous solution it may be obtained in large leaf-like plates .
It somewhat resembles the hydrochloride in its properties , but is much less soluble in water .
Analysis of amido-diimido-orcin sulphate.\#151 ; I. *255 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave *128 grm. barium sulphate .
II .
*284 grm. substance , dried at 100 ' , gave *143 grm. barium sulphate .
1873 .
] On a Method of viewing the Solar Prominences .
Theory .
I. II .
Mean .
( C7H12N303)2 = 372 79-49 ... ... ... ... ... ... S04 = _96 20-51 20-65 20-72 20-69 468 100-00 The formula of this salt would therefore appear to be [ C6 ( CH3 ) ( NH2 ) ( NH)2 ( HO)2]2 so4+h2 o. Amido-diimido-ordnnitrate is prepared , like the sulphate , by adding a slight excess of nitric acid to a moderately strong solution of the acetate and washing the precipitate with alcohol .
It closely resembles the sulphate in appearance , but is much more soluble in water .
When heated with excess of nitric acid it is decomposed , yielding a yellow solution , which , on being evaporated , leaves a mixture of oxalic acid and an amorphous yellow substance .
Amido-diimido-ordn acetate.\#151 ; Amido-diimido-orcin dissolves readily in acetic acid ; and on carefully evaporating the solution at a low temperature , the acetate is obtained in ill-defined crystalline plates having a purple iridescence .
It is readily soluble in cold water , but only slightly soluble in glacial acetic acid .
Amido-diimido-ordn oxalate.\#151 ; Yery slightly soluble purple scales obtained by precipitating a solution of the acetate with oxalic acid .
Amido-diimido-ordn picrate.\#151 ; On adding a solution of picric acid to a dilute solution of amido-diimido-orcin acetate and washing the precipitate with alcohol , the picrate is obtained in iridescent green needles and plates .
It is insoluble in alcohol , and but slightly soluble in water .
I cannot conclude this paper without acknowledging the very efficient aid I have received from my assistant , Mr. Charles Edward Gfroves , in conducting this investigation .
II .
" Note oil the Wide-slit Method of viewing the Solar Prominences .
" By William Huggins , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received November 21 , 1872 .
When editing the English translation of Sc-haliens ' Spectrum Analysis , ' I discovered that the short account of the method of viewing the forms of the solar prominences by means of a wide slit , which I had the honour of presenting to the Royal Society on February 16 , 1869* , does not agree exactly in one respect with the account of the observation of February 13 as it was entered at the time in my observatory book .
The short note was written at the suggestion of a friend during a Committee held in the Royal Society 's Apartments , and , as the concluding wrords show , was intended to be followed by a more detailed account of the method of observation .
The point in question relates to the position of a second slit which was used to screen the eye from every part of the * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvii .
p. 302 .

