292 Major W. A. Ross on Jeypoorite.[May 15 ' of later observations made under much more favourable circumstances was v=292-4 : x 10s centims. per second .
The latest observations ( 1872 ) furnish the most probable value of v , 293 x 108 centims. per second .
II .
" On 'Jeypoorite , a Sulph-antimonial Arsenide of Cobalt .
" By Major W. A. Ross , late Royal Artillery .
Communicated by Prof. W. H. Miller , Foreign Sec. R.S. Received April 16 , 1873 .
A mystery has pervaded the history and character of this almost unknown mineral ( the very name of which is mis-spelled " Syepoorite " ) , which was scarcely to have been expected from English mineralogists , as the only place in the world in which it has yet been found is the copper-mines of Khetree , in the Hindu principality of Jeypoor , in Rajpootana , India , the Rajah of which territory politely sent the writer the specimens of which an analysis is here submitted .
Notwithstanding Jeypoor is one of the feudatories of the British Government of India , it is believed that there is not a specimen of this mineral in the British Museum ; at any rate there was not one in 1868 , when Professor Maskelyne even expressed to the writer his doubt of the existence of such a mineral .
Professor Nieol ( ' Manual of Mineralogy , ' p. 458 ) tells us ( 1849 ) that this mineral , which he calls " Syepoorite , " from " Syepoor Rajpootana " !
was analyzed by Middleton , who found in it 64'64 per cent , cobalt and 35f36 sulphur* .
Dana and other mineralogists have followed this account ; and Professor Miller informs me that Middleton 's analysis is given in the 'Memoirs of the Chemical Society , ' vol. iii .
1845-48 , p. 39 .
There may , of course , be a mineral from the same place answering the description of Middleton 's analysis .
All I assert is that none of the many crystals examined by me gave the indications of a pure sulphide of cobalt .
At first I certainly thought Jeypoorite was only an antimonial sulphide of cobalt , not having any reason to doubt further the description given by Nicol ; but by a closer and novel method of examination , to be presently described , I succeeded in detecting arsenic in considerable quantity .
Plattner ( .
Probirkunst mit dein Lothrohre , ' vierte Auflage , Leipsic , 1865 ) attributes to Jeypoorite , evidently from the description of another work , a percentage of 65'2 cobalt , with the remainder sulphur , and says of it , at p. 311 , " Das Lothrohrverhalten ist nicht bekannt .
" * If Middleton had found iron , copper , \amp ; c. , one might have supposed that he tool some of the general sand for his analysis , which would of course reduce the percentage of cobalt and raise that of sulphur .
1873 .
] Major W. A. Ross on Jeypoorite .
This is about all we know of this mineral in Europe .
The natives of the neighbourhood of Khetree call it , if I remember rightly , " Sheta , " or " Sheeta , " and state that it is used by their jewellers , not only for the usual blue enamels made with cobalt oxide , but to impart to gold a rose-colour\#151 ; an art , perhaps , worth knowing .
The state and quantity in which it was sent to me almost preclude the possibility of a regular chemical analysis , so that in the mean time I beg to submit the following:\#151 ; Pyrological Analysis of .
( 1 ) Appearance.\#151 ; A. dark grey sand with shining metallic-looking points , yellow and white , interspersed .
Through the lens , these are found to be semimetallic fragments , the white crystalline , the yellow amorphous \gt ; there are also numerous quartzose fragments , white and pink .
( 2 ) About one tenth of this sand is magnetic .
Among the portion adhering to the mpgnet are no metallic crystals , but a considerable quantity of yellowish pyrrhotine .
( 3 ) In a glass of phosphoric acid , this magnetized sand gives chiefly reactions of iron .
( 4 ) After the magnetized portion was removed , the remainder ( among which were all the metallic-looking crystals ) was put into a sieve with holes of the diameter of a small pin , and the larger metallic crystals and fragments , with the greater part of the pieces of quartz , thus separated .
( 5 ) .A fragment of the more yellow metallic portion , treated in phosphoric acid , showed that it was copper pyrites .
( 6 ) The metallic crystals could now be plainly observed through a lens to be of the cubic system\#151 ; indeed , for the most part , apparently cubes with bevelled or truncated edges , and some octahedrons .
As these modifications give the crystals , compared with the other fragments , a roundish figure , the following expedient was resorted to for the further separation of the former from the latter .
( 7 ) The now coarse sand was placed in the middle of a long stiff paper tray inclined at an angle of about 30 ' , and the whole of it blown upwards with the jet of a mouth-pyrogene , when the lighter non-metallic fragments were blown away from the rest , the whole moved from its place , and the greater part of the roundish crystalline ones thus made to roll down to the bottom of the tray ; as many of the rest as possible were picked out with forceps , and added to those which had rolled down .
( 8 ) These crystals are the pure J , and , when thus collected separately , look ( without a lens ) like a number of glittering steel beads , each about half the size of a small pin 's head .
Through a lens they are seen to be of a silver-white , not a steel-grey colour .
Their crystalline form is not perceptible without a lens , although the metallic glancing of the smooth upturned side distinguishes them among the other metallic frag- 294 Major W. A. Ross on Jeypoorite .
[ May 15* ments .
These crystals weigh from 1-0 to *7 milligramme each* ; but 50 of them crushed in a Plattner 's steel mortar , produced a powder weighing only 36 mgrs .
This powder is blue-black and semimetallic , like that made from galena ; it adheres to everything it touches , soiling paper like graphite\#151 ; a property not possessed by the crystals .
Neither the roasted powder nor the crystal is magnetic .
( 9 ) Professor Miller has favoured me with the following determination of the crystalline form:\#151 ; " These crystals belong to the cubic system .
The simple forms are:\#151 ; the cube 10 0 ; the octahedron 111 ; and a hemihedral form with parallel faces II 0 1 2 .
The angles between normals to the faces are:\#151 ; 0 10 , 0 0 1 0 0 1 , 10 0 10 0 , 0 10 10 0 , 111 10 0 , 12 0 0 10 , 12 0 111 , 12 0 90 0 90 0 90 0 54 44 63 26 26 34 39 14 .
" ( 10 ) Roasted on an aluminium plate ( vide my paper on " Pyrology , ' Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 137 , vol. xx .
par .
89 ) a very slight smell of S02 is at first perceived , after which the powder very slowly changes its semimetallic appearance for the sooty black one of protoxide of cobalt ; for sulphides , arsenides , \amp ; c. thus roasted do not " sinter .
No green indications of nickel are given ( " Pyrology , " par .
90).^ jj ( 11 ) Roasted through a platinum-foil tray ( vide " Pyrology , " par .
83 ) , three crystals of J\lt ; yypoorite ground into a paste with double the weight cfl pure Pe3 03 ( a Preiberg reagent ) caused the steel leg of the forceps to bo covered thinly With a sublimate disposed in leopard-like spots , white ( antimony ' ) , with an orange tinge round their edges ( arsenic ) . . . .
J| ( a ) To make certain of this reaction , a small trace of Sb2 03 was mixeqj intimately with a quantity of the Preiberg rust and water ; and w en carefully ignited on a new platinum tray , it deposited exactly si a\#174 ; spots on the forceps , only white on the edges as elsewhere .
( 12 ) Pused with soda on a platinum wire , and the mass placed on silver foil with water , three crushed crystals of Jeypoorite gave a mo rately brown stain of sulphide of silver , showing that it contains a smaj| quantity of sulphur* .
* There are , however , much smaller ones in the residue from ( 4 ) .
t , t In testing my carbonate of soda previously to using it with Jey'poonte or e s ^ phur and sulpliuric-acid test of Berzelius on silver foil , I fused the soda OIVa .
of beautiful-looking close-grained charcoal from the Government P'w er wor Waltham Abbey .
The fused soda-mass , dug out as Berzelius recommends , an p ^ 1873 .
] Major W. A. Ross on .
( 13 ) Three large selected crystals of were added , one by one , to a phosphoric acid bead of 50 mgrs .
in an O. P. These weighed 3*2 mgrs .
They all at first emitted a few bubbles of gas ( SO ?
) , and afforded yellow creamy streaks ( S ?
) not unlike those of phosphate of silver , but proved not to be due to that metal , by the test described in par .
42 of " Pyrology , " and a sooty-black oxide ( Co O ?
) , while the platinum wire was slightly corroded .
The first two products were soon dissipated ; the cobalt oxide dissolving , gave the glass a fine rose-tint in the case of the first crystal .
The second crystal coloured the glass a much deeper red ; and when the third had been dissolved in the glass , it assumed the splendid red-violet hue of cobalt ( vide " Pyrology , " par .
35 ) .
( 14 ) It took exactly 2-5 mgrs .
of pure cobalt oxide to give to a 50 mgr .
P glass laid alongside of ( 13 ) on a sheet of white paper , and also viewed with it by transmitted light , the same colour .
Therefore 5 : 6*4 : : x ( per cent. ) ; and .r= A Gf 100 , =83-2 per cent , cobalt .
( 15 ) It took 21 mgrs .
of carbonate of soda to azurize bead ( 14 ) , but only 20 mgrs .
to azurize ( 13 ) ; so that there was slightly more acid in the former bead .
* ( 16 ) The bead ( 14 ) weighed , after the soda had been added , 77 mgrs .
, while ( 13 ) bead weighed 75 mgrs .
They had both been kept up to the mark by the means mentioned in par .
78 of the paper on " Pyrology .
" ( 17 ) As this percentage of cobalt seemed too high compared with that recorded in works on mineralogy from Middleton 's analysis above cited , I made the following second assay , in a manner slightly differing from the preceding .
In order also to guard against the possibility of loss of any cobalt from its fusion in the form of arsenide with the red-hot platinum-wire , the glass with a JeypooHte crystal on its surface was manipulated in such a manner that the lower surface of the bead just touched the upper surface of the jet , in which position the ring of the platinum-wire never even approaches a red heat , being kept comparatively cool by the action of the superposed blast ( par .
7 , " Pyrology " ) , which cuts the heat off from it ; .
while sufficient heat is imparted to the 3 ?
glass to dissolve most substances , which , even metals , cannot under these conditions attack or combine with the platinum , although , lightened by the loss of volatile on bright silver foil with distilled water , gave a brown stain of AgS quite as strong as that afterwards afforded by Jeypoorite , to which , therefore , if this soda had been used , double the amount of sulphur it really contains might have been attributed .
The same soda fused on platinum wire gave no stain whatever to silver .
A glass of pure boric acid fused in O.P. on this charcoal detects in its ash ( " Pyrology , " par .
65 ) silica , lime ( in considerable quantity ) , magnesia , and protoxide of iron ; while soda , as above-mentioned , shows it to contain sulphur , or sulphuric acid , and also shows its iron , which gives the soda a pale salmon-colour .
The Government gunpowder is , I believe , made of this charcoal .
296 Major W. A. Ross on , [ May 15\gt ; .V .
matter , or raised by the boiling of fresh 3 ?
added , the metallic mass or ball rises to or touches the platinum wire .
The glass is thus made to act as a miniature test-tube , with this advantage , that any novel reaction or peculiarity can , by removing it from the pyrocone , be immediately preserved for inspection , like a fly in amber .
( 18 ) { a ) 2*4 mgrs .
of pure cobalt oxide were taken to standardize an assumed 50-mgr .
3 ?
glass with an apparent red-violet colour .
( b ) It took four Jeypoorite crystals , weighing 3*2 mgrs .
, to bring another 3 ?
glass , also measured only by the eye , to a similar colour* .
( c ) [ a ] glass weighed 76-5 mgrs .
, and [ 6 ] glass 79*2 mgrs .
( d ) Then [ a ] =3-33 ( standard of Co ) , and [ 6 ] = 4 per cent. ( e ) Therefore 3*3 : 4 : : a ?
( per cent. ) ; and of 100 , =82-5 per cent , of cobalt .
( 19 ) I have not the means as yet of separating and estimating by my methods small quantities of sulphur and sublimates ; but , assuming the percentage of cobalt oxide in Jeypoorite to be about 82 , of the remaining 18 I am led to believe there are nearly equal quantities of arsenic and antimony , with very little sulphur\#151 ; certainly not more than 5 per cent. ; so that I would temporarily , until a sufficient quantity of the pure mineral ( not the sand ) be obtained to submit it to a regular chemical analysis , estimate the constituents of Jeypoorite to be about per cent. Oxide of Cobalt ... ... ... ... ... ... 82 " Antimony ... ... ... ... . .
7 " Arsenic ... ... ... ... ... . .
- 6 .
Sulphur 5 ( 20 ) The garlic smell of volatilizing arsenic is only obtainable from Jeypoorite by heating the mineral carefully with a ball of gold upon charcoal .
Plattner used gold for separating copper from its arsenide and that of nickel ( vide his 'Nickel and Cobalt Assay/ page 616 .
) ; bu , he fuses the arsenides with the gold in borax , in which condition it wou^ appear that the gold takes up some arsenic and retains it ( vide Ghnelin fl ' Chemistry/ vol. vi .
p. 238 , English translation ) .
My use of gold , on .
the contrary , is more mechanical than chemical , for the gold ball ( weig $ ing about 100 mgrs .
) is placed in a round cavity made in a charcoa mortar Pyrology , " par .
88 ) slightly larger than its diameter , an ft crystal of Jeypoorite put on the offside or rear , i. e. the side away from t e blast .
The whole front of the mortar is now covered with an . .
not too strong ( fig. 8 , " Pyrology " ) , when the gold becomes red-hot , u does not fuse .
The cobalt of the arsenide has now a tendency to reduction , and to join the gold in a metallic state , while the arsenic is volatilize X * Neither of these glasses was coloured up to the standard of 5 per cent. 1873 .
] On Rainfall and Sun-spot Periodicity .
this amount of heat ; and when the glowing charcoal , in the case of Jeypoorite , is afterwards held under the nose , a distinct and even strong smell of garlic is perceived .
If fusion of the gold takes place , this smell ceases immediately .
There is also emitted from thus treated another very peculiar but indescribable smell , after that of garlic has ceased .
This I believe to be due to volatilizing antimony ; and the fact is , so far as I know , unnoticed by writers on the " blowpipe " since the time of Cronstedt ; but VonEngestrom says of this metal ( Translation of Cronstedt 's 'Mineralogy/ by Gustav von Engestrom , London , 1772 , p. 308 ) , " Antimony is known by its particular smell , easier to be distinguished , when once known , than described .
" The corrosion of platinum by Jeypoorite powder , mixed with a large amount of rust , when roasted through it , is also ( in my opinion ) a strong proof of the existence of sulphide of antimony ( vide " Pyrology , " par .
80 ) ; for in this case I found that , thus roasted , Jeypoorite considerably , and even pure Sb203 slightly corroded the platinum , while native arsenic and arsenic acid did not do so at all .
( 21 ) When the gold ball , placed with a crystal of Jeypoorite on charcoal , as described in ( 20 ) , is fused by an O. P. , the surrounding ash of the charcoal is observed to be tinged with a beautiful rose tint .
This phenomenon appears to be due to the formation of arseniate of cobalt , and to be analogous to that of Erythrine in nature , where the cobalt oxide , combining with arsenic acid , is hydrated with the water absorbed chemically from the atmosphere by the latter .
Cronstedt ( ' Essay towards a System of Mineralogy/ Lond. 1772 , Sect , ccxlvi .
p. 230 ) notices this fact under the article " Cobalt , " which , he says , " when united with the calx of arsenic in a slow ( not a brisk ) calcining heat , assumes a red colour : the same colour is naturally produced by way of efflorescence , and is then called the bloom or flowers of cobalt .
" The fact proves the truth of Gmelin 's assertion , that fusing gold takes up a certain portion of arsenic* Another proof seems shown in the fact that the gold ball thus treated , assumes on the surface , when rapidly and momentarily heated , a dark reddish , and even a copper-coloured yellow , which may be the so-called " rose-colour " said to be given to gold by Indian goldsmiths , but which I have never yet seen in any part of India .
III .
" On a Periodicity of Rainfall in connexion with the Sun-spot Periodicity .
" By C. Meldrum , Director of the Meteorological Observatory , Mauritius .
Communicated by Sir Edward Sabine , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 6,1873 .
Assuming that there is a sun-spot periodicity , in the course of which the sun undergoes a variation with respect to heat or some other form of energy , we should expect to find a corresponding variation in the state of our atmosphere ,

