]\gt ; Prof. T. E. Thorpe and Mr. J. W. Rodger .
February 22 , 1894 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , .D .
, President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and ordered for them .
The Bakerian Lecture was delivered as follows:\mdash ; BAKERIAN LECTURE.\mdash ; " " On the Relations between the Viscosity ( Internal Friction ) of Liquids and their Chemical Nature By .
THORPE , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , and J. W. RODGmR , Assoc. R.C.S. Received February 22 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) The rpose of this is to throw light upon the relations between the viscosity of homogeneous liquids and their chemical nature .
It is divided into three parts .
Part I contains a summary of the attempts which have been made , more particularly by Poiseuille , Graham , Rellstab , Guerout , Pribram and Handl , and Gartenmeister , to elucidate this question .
Althougl it is evident from the investigations of these physicisbs that relationships of the kind under consideration do exist , it must be admitted that they are as yet not very precisely defined , mainly for the reason that the conditions by which truly comparable results can alone be obtained have received but scant consideration .
For example , it seems futile to expect that any definite stoichiometric relations would become evident by comparing observations taken at one and the same .
Practically , nothing is known of a quantitative character concerning the influence of temperature on viscosity .
From the time which a liquid takes to flow through a capilIary tube under certain conditions , which are set out at length in the paper , a measure of the viscosity of the liquid can be obtained .
An apparatus was , therefore , designed on this principle which admitted of the determination in absolute measure of the viscosity , and for a temperature range extending from up to the ordinary boiling point of the liquid examined .
In this way instead of finding , as has been the usual custom , relative times of flow in the same apparatus under the same external conditions of temperature and pressure , and which 1894 .
] The scosity of uids and their Chemical might or might not be taken as measures of a single physical tude of the substance , i.e. , its viscosity , the physical magnitude itself could be measured , and the various influences which are found to affect its value could be allowed for .
The physical constants thus obtained could then be treated from the point of view of the chemist , and the comparison would then be of the same kind as that employed in connexion with other physical magnitudes .
Full details of the conditions determining the dimensions of the apparatus and of the modes of estimating these dimensions , ether with the methods of conducting the observations , are given in the paper .
The corrections to be applied to the direct results are then discussed .
The question of the mathematical expression of the ] ation of iscosity of liquids to ature is considered , and reasons are given for preferring the formula of is here the coefficient of viscosity in dynes per square centimetx and , and are constants varying with the liquid .
With a view of testing the conclusions set out at ]ength in the historical section of the paper , and , in particular , of traciug the influence of homology , substitution , isomerism , , generally speaking , of changes in the composition and constitution of chemical compounds upon viscosity , a scheme of work was arranged which involved the determination , in absolute measure , of the viscosity of some seventy liquids , at all temperatnres between ( except where the liquid solidified at } temperature ) and their respective boiling points .
Part II of the memoir is concerned with the origin and modes of establishing the purity of the several liquids ; it contains the details of the meRsurements of the viscosity coefficients , togethcr with bhe data required to express the rela , tion of viscosity coefficients to femby means of SIotte 's formula , and tables are given showing the agreement between the observed calcnlated values .
In Parb III the results are discussed .
Tn the outset the factors upon which the magnitude of the viscosity probably depends are dealt with .
The influence of possible ] , as indicated by observations of vapour densities , points , and critical densities , and , more especially , by measurements of SUl'face energy , made by Eotvos in 1886 , and more recently by Ramsay and Shields , are taken note of .
The deductions may be made by considering the graphical representation of the results , showing the variations of viscosity coefficients with temperature , are then set forth .
For liquids which probably contain simple molecules , or .
which Prof. T. E. Thorpe and Mr. J. W. Rodger .
is little evidence of association of molecules at any temperature following conclusions may be :\mdash ; 1 .
In homologous series the coefficient of viscosity is greater , the greater the molecular weight .
2 .
An iso-compound has always a smaller viscosity coefficient than the normal compound .
3 .
An allyl compound has , in general , a coefficient which is greater than that of corresponding isopropyl compound , but less than that of normal propyl compound .
4 .
Substibution of halogen for hydrogen raises the viscosity coeffi .
cient by an amount which is greater , the greater the atomic weight of the halogen ; successive substitubions of hydrogen by in the same molecule bring about different increments in the viscosity coefficients .
5 .
In some cases , as in those of the dichlorethanes , substitution exerts a marked influence on the viscosity , and in the case of the dibromides and benzene , it may be so large that the compound of higher molecular weight has the smaller viscosity .
6 .
Certaiu liquids , which probably contain molecular complexes , do not obey these rules .
Formic and acetic acids are exceptions to Rule 1 .
The alcohols at some temperatures , but not at all , are exceptions to Rule 2 ; at no temperatnres do they conform to Rule 3 .
7 .
Liquids containing molecular complexes have , in general , large of 8 .
In both classes of liquids the behaviour of the initial members of homologous series , snch as formic acid and benzene , is in soms cases exceptional when compared with that of higher homologues .
As regards the luence of temperature on viscosity , it is found that the besb results given by Slotte 's formula are in cases the slope of the curve varies but little with the temperature .
From the mode in which the values of the constants and are derived , it cannot be expected that their magnitudes will be related in any simple manner to chemical nature .
With the exception of ccrtain liquids , such as water and the alcohols , which are ised by large temperature coefficients , and in which there is reason to expect the existence of moJecular aggregates , the formula , obtained from Slotte 's expression by neglecting terms in the deno minator involving higher powers of than , gives a close agreement with the observed results , and in this formula the magnitude of and are definitely related to the chemical nature of the sub , uces .
In order to obtain quantitative relationships between viscosity and 1894 .
] The of Liquids their ) chemical nature , and to compare one group of substances with it is necessary to fix upon particular temperatures at which liquids may be taken as being in comparable conditions as regards viscosity , and to compare the values of the viscosities at those temperatures .
The first comparable temperature which suggested itself boiling point .
A second comparable temperature was ob*ained by calculating values of corl.esponding tenJperatures b the method of van delP Waals with such data as couId be obtained .
The tbird basis of comparison consisted in using temperatures equal slope , i.e. , temperatures at which the rate of change of the viscosity coefficient is the same for all liquids .
At each of the different conditions of comparisons , the experimental results have been cxpressed according to the same system , in order to show at a glance relationships between the udes of the viscosity constants and the chemical nsture the substances .
The liquids are arranged so that chemically ated substances are lped together .
Tables are cted which give tlJe values of the three different magnitndes derivable of the viscosity of the substances .
1 , Values of viscosity coefficients ) .
2 .
Values of molecular area , i.e. molecular viscosity .
3 .
Valoes of volume , i.e. , molecular viscosity work .
The coefficient is the force in dynes which has to be exerted per unit-a.rea of a liquid surface in order to maintain its velocity relati ve to that of another surface at unit distance equal to unity .
It seemed , however , that reJations between viscosity and chemical nature would best be brought to lighb if , instead of adopting ] , areas were selected upon which there might be assumed to be the same number of molecules .
The molecular iscosity is proportional to the force on a liquid molecule in order to maintain its velocity equaI to unity under the unit conditions above defined .
With the osen it is the force in dynes exerted on the ] area in square centimetres lder unit conditions .
The iscosity work may be regarded as proportional to the work spent in moving a molecule through the average distance between two cent molecuIcs under unit conditions .
In ordinary units it is the in ergs required to move a surface equal to the molecular area in square centimetres through the molecular length in In the case of the comparison of the viscosity coefficients at the boiling point , it is found : 1 .
As an homologous series is ascended , a few cases the viscosity : ooefficient.remains practically the same , but in the grsater number of ser es the coefficients diminish .
In one series the coefficients incrsase ; Prof. T. E. Thorpe and Mr. J. W. Rodger .
[ Feb. in the case of the alcohols the coefficients vary irregularly with of the series .
2 .
Of corresponding compounds , the one having the highest cular weight has in general the highest coefficient ( the aliphatic and to a much greater extent the lcohols , do not conform with .
3 .
Normal propyl compounds have , as a rule , slightly higher than allyl oompounds ; in the case of the alcohols , propyl compounds lave much the higher value .
4 .
The effect of molecular weight in some cases may be more oounterbalanced by that of constitution , or of complexity .
5 .
The lowest members of homologous series frequently deviations from the regularity shown by higher members .
6 .
An compound has in general a larger coefficient than normal , and the differences reach their maximum in the case of the alcohols .
7 .
In ths case of other metameric substances , branching in the atomic chain and he symmetry of the molecule influence the tudes of the ; the -position , in the case of aromatic compounds , appears to have a more marked effect on the coefficient than either the meta- or para-position .
Acetone and ether have coefficients that are less than half the values given by the isomeric alcohols .
8 .
Ons of the most striking points thus brought to light is peculiar behaviour of the alcohols , and to some extent of the as contrasted with that of other Comparisons of molecular viscosity at the boiling point show\mdash ; 1 .
That , with the exoeption of the alcohoIs , dibromides , and the lowest members of homologous series , an increment of in chemical composition corresponds with an increase in molecular viscosity .
2 .
Wikh above exoeptions , it is also apparent that the sponding compound the highest molecular weight has highest molecular viscosity : the difference in molecnlar viscosity tween the corresponding members of two correlated series is constant .
3 .
The relationships shown in the other tables are substantially the same nature as those given by the viscosity coefficients .
The comparisons which give the largest deviation from contain those substances which , as already shown , exhibib a liar behaviour , namely , the alcohols , acids , propylene ethylene dichloride , \amp ; c. In order 10 indicate how molecular viscosity at the boiling point quantitatively connected with chemical nature , attempts were to calculate the probable partial eflects of the atoms on the 1894 .
] The Viscosity of iquids and their Nature .
viscosity .
Values were also assigned to the effects of the of atoms , the double linkage of carbon atoms , and the ring The values thus obtained are given in the table:\mdash ; As regards the meaning to be attached to fundamental viscosity in getleral , the following points may be noted .
Viscosity may be as a measure of the attractive forces in play between molecules , i.e. , of intermolecuIar attraction .
the that an increment of in chemical composition , or the substitution of an atom of chlorine , bromine , or iodine for an atom of hydrogen , briugs about a definite change in viscosity , it is evident that i1ltermolecular attraction is really a property of the atoms forming molecules .
Bnt , besides change in molecular weight , change in the mode of grouping of the same atoms also affects magnitude of the viscosity .
The observations show that iso-compounds have values differing from those of isomeric normal compounds ; ring compou1lds have not the values which , by the study of straight chain compounds , they might be expected to have .
Comlnds conffiining hydroxyl oxygen give of the viscosity differing widely those of componnds containing carbonyl oxygen .
rPhe same atoms must , therefore , exert different effects when differently linked together .
That the effects of all the atoms in the molecule are not altered by change in the mode of linkage is proved by the fact that the effect of , of iodine , of bromine , \amp ; c , , is the same in tlormal and in iso-compounds .
In the present state of the question it is impossible to say particular atoms are affected by change in the mode of linkage .
Hence the method adopted in deducing fundamental constants is to assume that certain atoms retain the same values under all Prof. T. E. Thorpe .
J. W. Rodger .
whilst { he change in the values of those atoms which are aifected by the mode of linkage is , when possible , expressed either by a new stant\mdash ; the value of an -linkage , a double linkage , \amp ; c. , or by saying that a particular atom has assumed a new , e.g. , carbonyl oxy- gen , hydroxyl oxygen , \amp ; c. In some cases the method of calculation may to the result that a negative constant is ascribed to a particular atom .
In deducing the values of carbon and hydrogen , for example , it is implied that in a group and in the molecule of a paraffin the individual effect of each atom of carbon or of hydrogen is the same .
The above facts , and the reasoning based upon them , show that this is not the case , amd although the absolute effect exerted by each atom upon the viscosity is positive , ths fundamental constant of an atom may be negative , as it may involve a constitutive fect , which at present cannot be localised in a particular region of the molecule .
For these reasons fundamental constants are to be regarded as empirically ascertained magnitudes , which are merely intended to indicate how far the observed results may be represented as the sum of partial values which are the same for all substances .
They have no reference to the possible behaviour of the elements when in the free state ; they simply show how far definite changes in chemical nature correspond with definite changes in viscosity .
Tables are given which show the concordance between the observed molecular viscosity and those calculated by means of these constants .
In the case of forty-five liquids the difference between the observed and calculated values rarely exceeds 5 per cent. In the case of the isomexio ketones and aromatic hydrocarbons , the differences are in part due constitutive luences , which cannot at present be allowed for in obtaining the calculated values .
In a second table are given those substances for which the differ ences exceed this 5 per cent. limit .
These may be roughly classed unsaturated hydrocarbons , polyhalogen compounds , formic and acids , benzene , water , and the aJcohols .
Similar fundamental constamts for molecular viscosity work at boiling point have also boen deduced .
These are in the on p. 155 .
Tables are also given showingthe comparison between the observed and calculated numbers , the bstances being classified into groups , as in the case of molecular iscosity , according as the ences are less or greater than about per cent. On taking a general survey of the comparisons at the boiling it is evident that for the majority of the substances examined\mdash ; paraffins and their monohalogen derivatives , the suIphides , ketones , the oxides , and most of the acids and the aromatic oarbons\mdash ; molecular viscosity and moIecular viscosity work quantitatively connected with chemical nature .
The remaining substances\mdash ; unsaturated hydrocarbons , di- and poly-halogen compounds , formic acid , benzene , water , and the alcohols\mdash ; preseni marked exceptions bo the foregoing regularities .
As regards the comparison of the viscosity magnitudes at the corretemperature , it is found that , although the critical data are too unsatisfactory to warrant us in laying any particular stress on the relationships obtained under this condition of comparison , these elationships are similar to , even if less definite than , those obtained at the boiling point .
For a property like viscosity , which alters so rapidly with temperature , a corresponding temperature is no better as a condition of comparison than the boiling point .
On comparing the viscosity curves of those substances which give the best physicochemical relationships at the boiling point , it was ab once seen that the general shape of the curves towards the boiling point was practically the same .
If tangents were drawn to the curves at points corresponding wibh the boiling points of the liquids , the inclinations of the tangents to the axes , that is , the slopes of the curves , varied but little .
On the other hand , the curves for liquids such as the alcohols , or the lowest members of series , which gave little indication of physicochemical relationships , had inval'iably a diflerent shape ; the inclinations of tangents drawn at the boiling point were markedly different from those of the majority of substances .
It seemed probable , therefore , that the discrepancies were related to this difference in the value of the slopes , and that , if the temperature of was chosen so as to eliminate this ence , better relationships ought to be obtained .
This idea led Prof. T. E. Thorpe and .
J. W. Rodger .
to the adoption of ures of equal slope as comparable tempera tures , and , indeed , apart altogether from considerations such as above , which refer to the particular case of viscosity , much may said , from a theoretical point of view , in favour of employing temper for physicochemical comparisons in general .
To begin wibh , at the temperature of equal slope , the effect temperature upon the propery examined is the same for dffierent substances .
the case of viscosity , for instance , , or the rate at viscosity is being by the temperature , has the same value for all liquids , and this equality might be taken as sufficient justification for supposing that at temperatures of equal slope substances , so far as viscosity is concerned , are in comparable states .
Another argument which may be advanced in favour of such a method of treatment is that the comparable temperatures are chosen by means of a study of the eifect of tempelature on the property actually mined .
The main objection which can be urged against the boiling point as a comparable temperature , even when , as in the case of such a property as density , it gives comparatively definite stoichiometric relationships , is that these reIationships may not be general .
If , however , comparable temperatures be chosen , as in the case of slope by a study of the property considersd , the generality of the obtained can be ascertained without the study of other properties of the substances .
Comparisons were made , therefore , at temperatures at which is the same for the different liquids .
Or , graphically , the temperatures may be defined as those corresponding with points on the viscosity curves at which tangents are equally inclined to the axes of coordinates .
The temperatures are therefore those at which temperature is exercising the same effect on viscosity , and for shortness may be termed temperatures of equal slope .
The temperatures were obtained by means of Slotte 's formula .
It was apparent from the shape of } curves thab all the liquids could not be compared at any one value of the slope , because the effect of temperature on the slope varied so much from substance to substance .
In some cases\mdash ; the whole of alcohols for example\mdash ; the slope at the boiling-point was considerably greater than that at in the case of some of the less viscous liquids .
A slope was , there- fore , selected at which as many liquids as possible could be compared .
Another slope was then obtained at which the outstanding liquids could be compared with as many as possible of the liquids used at the original value of the slope .
The relationships between the magnitudes of the viscosities of these liquids which could be compared at the two slopes were then found to be same at either slope , so that general regarding the behaviour of all the liqnids pould be deduced .
These are as follows:\mdash ; 1894 .
] Viscosity of Liquids and their Chemical Nature .
157 1 .
Temperatures of equal slope tend to reveal mnch more definite relationships between the values of viscosity coefficients and the chemical nature of the substances than are obtained at the boiling point .
2 .
In all homologous series , with the exception of those of the alcohols , acids , and dichlorides , the effect of on the value of the coefficient is positive , and tends to diminish as the series is ascended .
3 .
Of corresponding compounds the one of highest molecular erht has the highest coefficient .
4 .
Normal propyl compounds have slightly larger coefficients than the corresponding allyl compounds .
5 .
An -compound has inYariably a larger coefficient than a normal compound .
6 .
In the case of other isomers the orientation of the molecule and branching of the atomic chain influence the magnitndes of the mcients .
Similar effects of constitution are also exhibited on saturated and unsaturated hydrocarbons , and the variab ] effects produced by successive substitution of halogen for hydrogen .
7 .
The alcohols , and to some extent the acids , still give results which are peculiar when compared with other substances .
As regards molecular viscosity at equal slope the following conclusions may be drawn:\mdash ; 1 .
For the great majority of the substances .
viscosity at equal slope can be calculated from fundamental constants which express not only the partial effects of the atoms exisbing in the molecule , but also those due to different atomic arrangements .
These are given in the accompanying table:\mdash ; 158 iscosity of iquids and their Chemical Nature .
The large eflects which can be attributed to the ring-grouping atoms , to the iso-linkage , to double-linkage , and to changes condition of oxygen in its compotlnds , as well as the smaller due to the accumulation of atoms of halogen in a molecule , evident the quantitative influence of constitution .
2 .
Of the substances the chlormethanes , ethylene , ethylidene chloride and carbon bisulphide give from the calculated values on account of constitutive influences allowed for in obtaining the fundamental constants .
3 .
The alcohols and water exhibit no agreement with the values .
The mode in which deviations vary indicates , in the case the alcohols , that the disturbing factor is related to their chemical nature .
The results obtained from the consideration of molecular viscosity work at equal slope , are of precisely the same nature as those cussed under molecular viscosity .
The fundamental constants are as follows:\mdash ; Fundamental Viscosity Constants ( molecular viscosity work Slope , in ergs ) .
The substances which give deviations from the calculated values fall into two classes .
In the first the deviations are to be attributed to chemical constitution , inasmuch as simiIar disturbing effeOts may be detected in the magnitudes of other physical properties which ffiord no evidence of being enced by molecular complexity .
In the second are substances like the acids , water , and the alcohols , for which the disturbing factor is , no doubt , molecular complexity .
The qnestion of the generality of the results obtained is next discussed .
It is evident : esents .
1 .
That over such temperature ranges as the observations extend the resuIts obtained at a particular value of the slope may be regarded as general for all liqnids , with the exception of the alcohols , for which the relationships vary slightly as the slope alters .
general expression connecting the viscosity coefficient with ths slope is given . .
It is further indicated , from comparisons made by the use of slopes which varied from liquid to liquid , and which wers chosen according to definite systems , that in the present state of the question equal slope is the most suitable condition at which to compare the viscosities of different liquids .
With respect to the relationships existing between the magnitudes of the comparable temperatures of equal slope , it appears:\mdash ; 1 .
That these vary in a ular way with the chemical nature of the substances , except in the case of liquids like benzene and propylene dibromide , giving viscosity curves which are abnormal when compared those of their homologues .
2 .
The temperature relationships may also be regarded as general and thus independent of the value of the slope , excspt in the case of the alcohols , which , in this respect , as in that of viscosity at equal slope , are anomalous .
The rest of the memoir is concerned with the discussion of certain general conclusions regarding physicochemical comparisons ; and it finally deals with other possible methods of obtaining and -comparing viscosity magnitudes .
Presents , , 1894 .
Transactions .
Adelaide:\mdash ; Royal Society of South Australia .
Transactions .
XVII .
Part .
2 . .
Adelaide 1893 .
The Society .
Berlin :Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde .
Verhandlungen .
Bd .
Nos. 8\mdash ; 10 . .
Berlin 1893 .
The Society .
Brisbane :Royal Society of Queensland .
Procaedings .
Vol. Parb 1 .
Vol. .
Parts 1\mdash ; 2 .
Vol. VIII .
Parts 1\mdash ; 4 . .
Brisbane 1889-92 .
The Society .
Calcutta :Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Vol. LXII .
Part 1 .
No. 3 .
Par. No. .
Part 3 .
Nos. 1\mdash ; 3 . .
Colcutta 1893 ; Proceedings .
1893 .
Nos. 8\mdash ; 9 . .
Calcutta 1893 .
The Society .
Edinburgh :Royal Society of nsactions .
Vol. XXXVII .
Part 2 .
; Proceedings .
Vol. .
Pp .
97\mdash ; 160 .
; List of Members .
189.3 . .
The Society .

