C Fig. 2 .
A I. The Figure of a Machine for grinding Lenses spherically , invented by Mr. Samuel Jenkins , and communicated by him to the Honble Sir Hans Sloane , Bart. Pr .
R. S. &amp; c. SIR , THE Advantage it would be to have Lenses of the spherical Kind , Segments of a true Sphere , hath occasioned the Invention of many Machines and Methods of Grinding , in order to produce such Segments : But nothing hitherto made public hath answered the End proposed .
The best Methods now in Use will only produce an Approximation to a truly spherical Figure , but demonstrably not one , though the Artificer should employ the utmost Skill and Care in the Use of the best Machines hitherto invented : And indeed , at present , Gentlemen have nothing to depend on , that their Lenses are nearly spherical , but the Care and Integrity of the Workmen ; in which how often they are deceived , is too obvious to every one who hath Occasion to use such Lenses .
I therefore beg Leave to submit to your Consideration the Effects of a Machine , of which the enclosed is a Representation [ T A B. I. Fig. 1 .
] ; which , as it is contrived to turn a Sphere at one and the same time on Two Axises which cut each other at Right Angles , with equal Velocity and Pressure on each of them , I conceive it is demonstrable , that ( without any Skill or Care in the Workman ) it will produce a SegC ccc meant meant of a true Sphere , barely by turning round the Wheels ; which is so , the Consequences will be , 1st , That all Grinders of such Glasses , &amp; c. will gladly use them ; a labouring Man , whom they hire for less Wages , being , by the Help of this Machine , able to do more Work in a Day , than a skilful Artificer , without it , in Two Days .
And , 2dly , All Gentlemen will have the Pleasure to know the Lenses they make use of are truly spherical , it being impossible this Machine should produce any other Figure .
If you think this Contrivance of Importance enough to be offered to the ROYALSOCIET Y , you will do me a great deal of Honour to communicate it from , SIR , Essex-Court , Your most obliged Nov. 29 .
1737 .
Humble Servant , Samuel Jenkins .
Explanation of Fig. 1 .
T AB .
I A. A Globe covered with Cement , in which are fixed the Pieces of Glass to be ground .
This Globe is fastened to the Axis , and turns with B. the Wheel B. C. Is the brass Cup , which polishes the Glass : This is fastened to the Axis , and turns with D. the Wheel D. So that the Motion of this Cup C is at Right Angles with the Motion of the Globe A.

