412 Prof. A. Agassiz .
Formation of [ Feb. 7 , theory if time is allowed for them .
The change at the G temperature is the breaking up of a solid solution into a mixture of the compound Cu3Sn and liquid , and is instantaneous : here we have a case of a solid partially melting as it cools .
The curve 1XE'/ forms with the part of the solidus immediately above it an area , roughly triangular , within which all the alloys appear to be uniform solid solutions , but , as soon as an alloy cools to the curve , it becomes saturated and a new body crystallises out of the solid solution .
One branch of the curve 1XE'/ corresponds to the crystal lisation of a body rich in copper , the other to the crystallisation of a body rich in tin , which is probably the pure compound Cu4Sn .
The angle X ( or rather C ' ) , is the eutectic angle at which both bodies crystallise together , the whole phenomenon being exactly like crystallisation out of a liquid .
All the results obtained from the study of the chilled alloys are in harmony with the pyrometric work of Roberts-Austen and Stansfield , and many of the changes we have examined correspond to an evolution of heat recorded by them .
The paper is an extension of a short paper published by us in the ' Proceedings ' of December , 1901 .
On the Formation of Barrier Beefs and of the Different Types of Atolls .
" By Alexander Agassiz , For .
Mem. R.S. Received February 7 , \#151 ; Read March 19 , 1903 .
The results here presented are based upon observations carried on during the past 25 years in Florida , the Bermudas , Bahamas , Cuba , Jamaica , and the West Indies in the Atlantic .
They include in the Pacific the Galapagos , the Hawaiian Islands , the Great Barrier Reef of Australia , the Fiji Islands , and the Coral Reefs and Islands of the tropical Pacific , from the Marquesas to the Paumotus , the Society Islands , the Cook Archipelago , Niue , the Tonga , Ellice , Gilbert , and Marshall Islands , the Carolines and Southern Ladrones , and the Maldives , in the Indian Ocean .
Recognising that Darwin 's theory did not explain the conditions observed , my reports were limited to descriptions of the different types of Coral reefs and of the causes to which they probably owed their formation , and no attempt was made to establish any independent general theory .
Beginning with the Barrier Reefs , we find that those of Fiji , the Hawaiian Islands , and the West Indies usually flank volcanic islands and are underlaid by volcanic rocks .
Those of New Caledonia , 1903 .
] Barrier Barfs and of the Different Types of Atolls .
413 Australia , Florida , Honduras , and the Bahamas , are underlaid by-outliers of the adjoining land masses , which crop out as islands and islets on the very outer edge of the Barrier Beefs .
Some of the Barrier Beefs of the Society Islands , of Fiji , and of the Carolines , show that the wide and deep lagoons , separating them from the land mass , have been formed by erosion , from a broad fringing reef flat .
Encircling reefs , such as characterise especially the Society Islands , hold to their central island or islands the same relation which a Barrier Beef holds to the adjoining land mass .
Denudation and submarine erosion fully account for the formation of platforms upon which coral reef and other limestone organisms may build , either barrier or encircling reefs , or eAren atolls , rising upon a volcanic base , of which the central mass may have disappeared , as in Fiji , the Society and Caroline Islands .
We may next take the type of elevated islands of the Paumotus , the Fiji , the Gilbert , and the Ladrones , many composed only of tertiary limestones , others partly of limestone , and partly volcanic .
We can follow the changes from an elevated island , like Niue , or Makatea in the Paumotus , to an island like Niau , through a stage like Bangiroa to that of the great majority of the atolls in the Paumotus .
The reef-flats and outer reefs flanking elevated islands , hold peculiar relation to them , they are partly those of Barrier Beef and partly of Fringing Beef .
We may also trace the passage of elevated plateaux like Tonga , Guam , and islands in Fiji , partly volcanic and partly limestone , to atolls where only a small islet or a larger island of either limestone or volcanic rock is left to indicate its origin .
Atolls may also be formed upon the denuded rim of a volcanic crater , as at Totoya and Thombia in Fiji , as well as in some of the volcanoes east of Tonga .
In the Ellice and Marshall group and the Line Islands , are a number of atolls , the underlying base of which is not known , and where we can only follow the formation of the land rim of the atoll , as far as it is due to the agency of the trades or of the monsoons in constantly shifting the superficial material ( prepared by boring organisms ) which goes to form its rim .
Many of the atolls in the Pacific are merely shallow sinks , formed by high sandbanks , thrown up around a central area .
Throughout the Pacific , the Indian Ocean , and the West Indies the most positive evidence exists of a moderate , recent elevation of the coral reefs .
This is shown by the bosses , pinnacles , and undermined masses of modern or tertiary limestone left to attest it .
The existence of honeycombed pinnacles of limestone within the lagoons of atolls , as shoals , islands , or islets , shows the extent of the solvent action of the sea upon land areas , having formerly a greater extension than at the present day .
Signs of this solvent action are to be seen everywhere among coral reefs .
Atmospheric denudation has played an VOL. LXXI .
2 H 414 Formation of Barrier Reefs and Atolls .
[ Feb. 7 , important part in reducing elevated limestone islands to the level of the sea , by riddling them with caverns and by forming extensive sinks , often taken to be elevated lagoons .
Closed atolls can hardly be said to exist ; Niau in the Paumotus is the nearest approach to one , yet its shallow lagoon is fed by the sea through its porous ring .
Sea water may pass freely into a lagoon at low tide over extensive shallow reef flats where there are no boat passages .
The land area of an atoll is relatively small compared to that of the half-submerged reef flats .
This is specially the case in the Marshall Islands and the Maldives where land areas are reduced to a minimum .
The Maldivian plateau with its thousands of small atolls , rings , or lagoon reefs , rising from a depth varying from 20 to 30 fathoms , is overwhelming testimony that atolls may rise from a plateau of suitable depth , wherever and however it may have been formed and whatever may be its geological structure .
On the Yucatan plateau similar conditions exist regarding the formation of atolls , only on a most limited scale .
The great coral reef regions are within the limits of the trades and monsoons and areas of elevation , with the exception of the Ellice and Marshall Islands and some of the Line islands .
The extent of the elevation is shown by the terraces of the elevated islands of the Paumotus , Fiji , Tonga , Ladrones , Gilbert , and West Indies , or by the lines of cliff caverns indicating levels of marine erosion .
In the regions I have examined the modern reef rock is of very moderate thickness , within the limits of depth at which reef builders begin to grow , and within which the land rims of atolls or of Barrier Reefs are affected by mechanical causes .
This does not affect the existence of solitary deep-sea corals , of extensive growths of Oculina or Lophohelia at great depths , or in any way challenge the formation of thick beds of coralliferous limestone during periods of subsidence .
The Marquesas , Galapagos , and a few islands in the Society and West Indies have no corals , although they are within the limits of coral areas .
Their absence is due to the steepness of their shores and to the absence or crumbling nature of their submarine platforms .
Coral reefs also cannot grow off the steep cliff faces of elevated , coralliferous limestone islands .
Corals take their fullest development on the sea faces of reefs ; they grow sparingly in lagoons where coralline algae grow most luxuriantly .
Nullipores and corallines form an important part of the reef-building material .

