547 The Extinction of Sound in a Viscous Atmosphere Small Obstacles of Oylindricaland Form .
By C. J. T. Sewell , B.A. , Trinity College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by Prof. H. Lamb , F.R.S. Received February 1 , \#151 ; Read March 10 , 1910 .
) ( Abstract .
) The results obtained in this paper are only valid when the dimensions of the obstacles are small compared with the wave-length of the incident sound .
For cylinders and spheres whose radius is not less than 10~3 cm .
it is found that the ratio of the lost energy to that incident upon the obstacle is at most of order 10~2 ; this is a very much larger proportion than is obtained in the case of a non-viscous air .
The results obtained for a single obstacle are extended without difficulty to the case of a large number of obstacles .
This extension is valid only when the space occupied by the obstacles is small compared with the total volume .
It appears in the case of spherical obstacles , that , if each small obstacle has radius 10~3 cm .
, and there are 106 of them per cubic centimetre , then sound of wave-length 50 cm .
will have its intensity diminished in the ratio 1 : e after passing through a thickness of less than 12 cm .
of such a medium .
The formula should be applicable to fogs , as we may regard the water particles as approximately fixed , since their inertia is so much greater than that of the surrounding air .
I am indebted to Prof. Lamb for the following information from Harm 's c Meteorologie ' : " In a dense fog the amount of water may vary from about 3 to 10 grammes per cubic metre .
Assuming that the diameter of the drops is 0'02 mm. , and a cubic metre contains 4*5 grammes of water , this is calculated to give 109 drops per cubic metre , and therefore 103 per cubic centimetre .
" With these numerical data , the fog would not interfere appreciably with the propagation of sound .
But if the diameter of the drops could be as small as 0,002 mm. , a fog of the same density would contain 106 drops per cubic centimetre , and the sound would be damped very quickly .
On the other hand , Tyndall 's observations appear to show that the presence of fog is not prejudicial to the audibility of sound.* [ Note , April 12th , 1910.\#151 ; Prof."Larmor has kindly pointed out to me that it is not legitimate to apply the formula obtained to fogs without further * Rayleigh , ' Treatise on Sound , ' vol. 2 , S 290 .
Mr. E. Marsden .
[ Feb. 17 , consideration .
Although the inertia of the water particles is so much greater than that of the surrounding air , yet , in consequence of the viscosity of the air , it does not follow that we may regard the water particles as approximately fixed .
I have investigated the corresponding problem of a free spherical obstacle .
The results obtained are approximately the same as in the ease of a fixed obstacle of same radius , provided ratio of densities po/ pi and also ( po/ pi ) \~2a~2 , \ being wave-length , are small fractions .
The former condition is , of course , always satisfied in the case of fogs ; the latter condition is satisfied for obstacles of radius 10~2 cm .
, and also for obstacles of radius 10~3 cm .
when the wave-length of the incident sound is not too great .
In the case of obstacles of radius 10-4 cm .
, however , this condition is no longer satisfied ; in fact , such small obstacles oscillate to and fro with the air .
Hence , when the diameter of the drops of water in a fog is as small as 0 002 mm. , such a fog does not- interfere appreciably with the propagation of sound , and a result is obtained in agreement with Tyndall 's observations .
] The Phosphorescence produced by the a- and / 3-Bays .
By E. Marsden , B.Sc. , Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator in Physics at the East London College , University of London .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received and read February 17 , 1910 .
) The radiations from radio-active substances share with light and other radiations the property of exciting luminosity in various substances .
These substances require in general to have a small amount of impurity present , * and in many cases they appear to lose their sensitiveness under the prolonged action of the radiation .
Thus Beilbyf has shown that barium platinocyanide after continued exposure to the / 9-rays assumes a reddish-brown colour , while the luminosity excited by the rays falls off considerably .
Also it is well known that the zinc sulphide screens of spinthariscopes after a time need renewal owing to their luminosity becoming fainter .
As the experiments of Rutherford and Geiger ] ; have shown that the scintillation property of zinc sulphide can be used for quantitative measure- * Lenard and Klatt , ' Ann. d. Physik , ' vol. 15 , pp. 225 , 425 , 633 , 1904 ; also E. Regener , ' Le Radium , ' 7 , 1 , p. 9 , January , 1910 .
+ Beilby , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 74 , p. 506 , 1905 .
\ Rutherford and Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 81 , p. 141 , 1908 .

