310 Messrs. A. H. Everett , J. Evans , and G. Busk .
[ Apr. 15 III .
" Report on the Exploration of the Caves of Borneo .
" B~ .
A. Hart Everett .
" Introductory Remarks .
" By J0Hi Evans , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Treas .
R.S. And " Note on th\lt ; Bones Collected .
" By G. Busk , V.P.R.S. Receiver March 4 , 1880 .
In the year 1878 the Council of the Royal Society made a grant oi \#163 ; 50 from the Donation Fund , towards the expenses of carrying on ar\gt ; investigation of the Caves of Borneo , which it was thought possible might prove to contain remains both of palaeontological and anthro-pological interest .
A similar grant was made by the British Association , and a Committee appointed ; and by the aid of private subscriptions a sufficient sum was raised to secure the services of Mr. Hart Everett , whose report upon his investigations , extending over a period of nearly nine months , is now enclosed .
A preliminary report from the Committee , together with one of Mr. Everett 's reports has already been submitted to the British Association at its meeting in Sheffield , and has appeared in print .
It was then pointed out that although the examination of these caves had not , as was hoped , thrown any light upon the early history of man in that part of the world , yet that the evidence obtained , though negative in character , was not without value , inasmuch as the true nature of the Borneo cave deposits had now been carefully ascertained by Mr. Everett .
His final report confirms the opinion already expressed .
It only remains to be added that with the exception of the bones mentioned in the enclosed note by Mr. G. Busk , F.R.S. , which have been placed in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons , the whole of the objects sent to England by Mr. Everett have been made over to the British Museum .
Accompanying this is Mr. Everett 's first quarterly report , together with his map and plans , so that they may if thought fit be deposited in the archives of the Society , so as to be available , if necessary , for future reference .
" Report on the Exploration of the Bornean Caves in 1878-9 .
" By A. Hart Everett .
1 .
The limestone formation .
2 .
The caves and their deposits .
3 .
The human remains .
4 .
Concluding remarks .
1 .
The Limestone Formation .
The caves of Sarawak are situated in a limestone formation substantially identical with that of the Malay Peninsula , and occupying 880 .
] On the Exploration of the Caves of Borneo .
311 considerable area of the north-west and north-east parts of the Island f Borneo .
Its westernmost extension seems to be represented by the hun Hill on the frontier between Sambas and Sarawak , whence it U nearly uninterruptedly to the upper waters of the Sadong River t Semabang .
It reappears in the Tatan River near Bintulu , and crain comes to the surface in the Niah , Baram , and Lmbang rivers , o Brunei territory , and it is known to be largely developed m northern Where the original structure of the rock has not been obliterated jy metamorphic action , it is found to be crowded with organic emains ( encrinites , \amp ; c. ) , but as these have never been examined by jalseontoloo-ists , it is impossible to fix with any approach to exactitude he age of the formation .
Its position relative to the other rocks of he island is also not well determined .
It appears , however , always in underlie the great sandstone-conglomerate formation which constitutes the major part of the highlands of north-west Borneo .
The limestone hills nowhere attain to a greater elevation than 1,800 feet above the sea-level , at any rate in Sarawak , and they more commonly vary from 300 feet to 800 feet in height .
In the Baram district the Mulu Mountain is said to be limestone and to rise to a height of 9,000 feet , but I am not aware that it has ever been visited by a European observer .
The hills invariably spring up steeply from the low country , and the majority of them present lines of old sea-cliffs which generally face to N. and N.W. , towards the quarter still occupied by the waters of the sea .
The rock itself is much fissured and jointed , and the hills in many instances are absolutely honeycombed with caverns .
As is nsnal in limestone districts the drainage of the country is largely subterranean .
Owing to* this fact , coupled with the heavy rainfall ( the mean for the last three years was 165 inches at Kuching ) , the land at the base of the hills is subject to frequent flooding during the prevalence of the north-east monsoon , when the underground watercourses are of insufficient capacity to carry off the water as fast as it reaches them .
As an instance of the extent to which subterraneous drainage with its consequent subterranean denudation has gone on in Sarawak , I may cite the Siniawan river , which passes beneath four distinct hills in its short course , and one of these hills the Jambusan Hill\#151 ; is pierced besides by at least three ancient river-tunnels of large size at varying levels .
2 .
The Caves and their Deposits .
The total number of the caves examined by me has been thirty-two , of which two were situated in Mount So bis , up the Niah river , and the remainder in Upper Sarawak Proper .
They comprised examples of tunnel , fissure , and ordinary ramifying caverns .
Partial excava312 Messrs. A. H. Everett , J. Evans , and G. Busk .
[ Apr. 1 ; tions were carried on in twelve of these caves .
The deposits " tamed m them varied .
A few afforded nothing but thick an lations of bats ' or bird-guano still in process of deposition Th ' deposit was examined in three instances , and proved to be perfectl .
the exception of a few of the bones of the bats and swift .
, jT 10 i owe 'ts production .
The commonest deposit in the cave of Upper Sarawak was found to be an exceedingly tenacious dar ' yellow , homogeneous clay , which is sometimes crusted over with a ' much as a foot of dry mortar-like stalagmite , and sometimes is itsel concreted into a kind of stony , pseudo-stalagmitic mass ; hut more gene rally it occurs in the form of simple wet clay lying immediatelv n , the limestone floors of the caves and without any other deposit abov , , 10 ,1 f the water-level and in caves 150 feet or more " 7 14 .
Occasionally , as in some of the Bidi caves , it is mixed with sand and fine water-worn gravel .
It is evidently derived from the waste of the clay shales and soft felsitic porphyries which now make np the lowlands in the vicinity of the limestone hills\#151 ; worn fragments of these rocks occurring in it .
I have very seldom met with organic remains in this clay , notwithstanding that , in addition to my own excavations , I have always been careful to search for bones in the debris left by streams running through the caves and carrying away the softer parts of the deposit .
Such few remains as have presented themselves indicate that the clay is of fluviatile origin .
They com-prise bones and teeth of pig and porcupine , a large part of the skeleton elonian reptile , and numerous land and fresh-water shells .
A pro onged search would doubtless reveal remains from time to time , but certainly not m sufficient abundance or of interest to warrant the cost oi exploration .
In addition to the guano and clay , there was found in four instances a regular series of deposits ( in caves Nos. V , XIII , XXI , and XXXII ) , of which the following note represents the section , as generalised from the excavations in caves Xos .
V and XIII .
( 1 .
) A surface layer of disturbed earth composed largely of charcoal , rotten wood , and bamboos , with fragments of modern pottery , glass beads , recent bones , quantities of fresh-water shells ( chiefly the common potamides ) , and other debris\#151 ; being the relics left by the yaks , ^ who camp temporarily in the caves when they are employed in gathering the harvests of the edible birds ' nests , which is done three times annually .
This layer is , in some cases , a mere film , but about the entrance hall of No. XIII it was as much as a foot in thickness .
( 2 .
) A talus of loam or clay mixed with earthy carbonate of lime , which locally forms a hard concrete , and crowded with the tests of many species of recent land shells , together with the bones , generally fragmentary , of various small mammals belonging chiefly to the order Rodentia .
This talus is composed , in great measure , of large angular 880 .
] On the Exploration of the Caves of Borneo .
313 nd subangular blocks of limestone .
In cave No. V its summit is early 50 feet above the floor of the cave .
( 3 ) A stratum of river mud mingled with bat-guano , and with ounded masses of limestone and creamy crystalline stalagmite mter-ersed .
The maximum thickness observed in the excavations was Meet This stratum is crowded with the remains of bats , and also yith those of larger mammals\#151 ; all ( as I am led to understand ) of , enera now extant in Borneo .
The bones are almost invariably in a ]ery broken condition , and so rounded and water-worn as to be past dentification .
As a sample of these bones has been examined in England , it is not necessary to speak more particularly of them here , in addition to the mammalian remains , the mud exhibits a miscel-aneous assemblage of the remains of small reptiles ( chiefly Chelonian ) , ash bones and scales , chelae of crustaceans , land and fresh-water shells , leaves , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c. In the upper level of this river mud traces ot the presence of man are abundant .
( 4 .
) The yellow clay , more or less concreted into hard pseudostalagmite , and containing casts of land shells , and bones and teeth of pig .
In No. XIII , a narrow band of nearly pure stalagmite ( about 4 inches thick ) intervenes between the river mud and the yellow clay .
The latter deposit rests immediately on the limestone floor of the cave .
It contains a few water-worn pebbles and fine gravel , and it has been extensively denuded , prior to the introduction of the river mud above it .
The foregoing series of deposits is found , with wonderfully slight variation , at points so distant from each other as Jambusan and Niah .
At both places the floors of the caves which present it are at a level of some 40 feet above the flat land at the bases of the hills .
All four caves open on the face of a perpendicular cliff , so that theii height above the present valleys affords a gauge of the denudation of the soft rocks in the vicinity of these hills since the introduction of the liver mud .
The above are the principal kinds of deposits that are met with .
Apart from the evidence as to their slight antiquity afforded by the mammalian remains , and by the fact of the presence of man in a fairly advanced stage of civilisation in the particular instances examined , it seems highly probable that the contents of all the Sarawak caves , at least to a height of many hundred feet , will prove equally recent , and for the following reason : The contents of the Sarawak caves must have been accumulated since the date of the last submergence of north-west Borneo , unless the subsidence of the land was very trifling indeed .
But the submergence actually went on to a depth of oOO feet , and probably much more , as is abundantly evidenced by the indications of purely marine denudation on the inland hills ; and that it was very recent in a geological sense may with fairness be deduced , 314 Messrs. A. H. Everett , J. Evans , and G. Busk .
[ Apr. ] ^think , from the slight amount of differentiation which the prese Fauna of the island has undergone since its last connexion with cj tinental Asia , coupled with the rapid rate at which the Sarawak eoa is even now advancing seaward , which argues that the tract of lai now intervening between the sea and the limestone hills cannot j of much antiquity .
The absence of any heavy floors of crystalli , stalagmite in the caves seems to add confirmatory testimony in th direction , as does , perhaps , the absence of the large mammals of Bonn ( elephant , rhinoceros , tapir , and wild ox ) , from the north-west di tricts .
It may be worth remarking , that all the tribes of Land Dyai have most circumstantial traditions current among them on the sul ject of a great subsidence of the land .
With regard to the rate of accumulation of the cave-deposits i Sarawak , it seems probable that it would be in excess of that general !
observable in the case of other countries , for the rocks are of an es tremely decomposable class , and , as I have noted above , the rainfall i prodigious .
With respect to the possible future discovery of ossiferous deposit other than those mentioned above , I think it probable that such wil be found .
They cannot , however , be very numerous in proportion t\lt ; the number of caves .
The natives have been in the habit for mam years past of excavating the contents of the caves and fissures for tin purpose of washing out the alluvial gold they afford .
The cave : examined in this way are situated at all elevations up to 100 feet Both Malays and Chinese set a value on fossil teeth , which they pre serve as charms or use for medicinal purposes ; nevertheless , they have \lt ; never met with a regular ossiferous deposit in the course of their ex-plorations .
Had they done so , it would have been certain to attract their attention .
Bones and teeth have , however , been found from time to time , and of these I forwarded a sample to Mr. Evans , but many of them were evidently quite recent .
Tn the event of other bone-beds being ultimately discovered in any part of Borneo , they will doubtless resemble generally the accumulation of fluviatile debris described in caves " V and XIII .
At present no animals habitually use caves in this island in the same way as the caves of Europe were used by the large Carnivora as retreats to which to carry their prey , so that the rich assemblage of mammalian remains which characterises the old hyaena dens of England cannot be looked for in Borneo .
On the other hand , the fissures which abound like natural pitfalls over the limestone country , and which in Europe have furnished deposits of bones , are in Borneo barren or nearly so , so far as my experience has gone .
The reason is to be found , I suspect , in the remarkably rugged and precipitous nature of the limestone hills , which makes them practically inaccessible to the larger mammals , and in their dense coating of jungle , the matted roots of 880 .
] On the Exploration of the Caves of Borneo .
v-liich bridge over all the fissures to a greater or less degree , and afford safe passage to the smaller animals .
3 .
The Human Remains .
Many of the caves present traces of the presence of man .
Eleven f the caves examined by me exhibited such traces , and I had information of five others .
The cave exploration has , indeed , yielded traces \gt ; f man or his handiwork under three distinct sets of conditions , hz .
, ( 1 ) in river gravel , ( 2 ) in the river mud of the Jambusan \#166 ; ave , as mentioned in the preceding section , and ( 3 ) in the surface-ayers of various caverns in Upper Sarawak and at Niah .
( 1 .
) During my first exploration I discovered imbedded at the bottom of a bed of river gravel exposed in a section on the left bank if the Siniawan river , a single stone celt .
It was forwarded to the ate Sir C. Lyell with a note of the circumstances of its occurrence , md was pronounced by him to be of Neolithic type .
It is the only sxisting evidence , to my knowledge , of the use of stone by man ior the manufacture of industrial implements yet discovered in Borneo .
At present iron- seems to be universally employed even by the rudest tribes .
( 2 .
) In cave No. XIII , scattered abundantly throughout the upper 8 inches of the river mud , there occurred water-worn fragments of a rather coarse but fairly well made pottery .
It was so fragmentary and water-worn that it was impossible to distinguish of what kind of utensils it had formed a part .
Associated with it were a few marine shells ( Cardium , Cyprcea , and others ) , a single fragment of stone apparently bearing marks of human workmanship , pieces of burnt bone , fresh-water shells ( Neritinaand ) also bearing the marks of fire , the tooth of a tiger cat , with a hole bored through the base , a rude bone bead , and a few clean chips of quartz .
No stone implements properly so called were observed , though carefully looked for .
These remains indicate the presence of a settlement of people at some distance without the cave on the banks of the stream , which formed the river mud deposit .
The quality of the pottery shows that this people had attained a fair degree of civilisation .
The presence of the marine shells seems to imply that the sea coast was within easy reach of the vicinity of the Jambusan Hill .
The remains generally , although of slight interest except to the local archaeologist , belong to a ruder stage of art than the following .
( 3 .
) The traces of man in the remainder of the eleven caves above referred to consist of human bones , associated , in some instances , with works of art .
These remains occur always either just within or but a few yards removed from the entrances of the caves .
The caves in which they lie commonly open on the faces of steep mural precipices .
That at Ahup , where the largest accumulation exists , is at an elevation vot. .
xxx .
z 316 Messrs. A. H. Everett , J. Evans , and G. Busk .
[ Apr. 1 , of not less than 100 feet above the valley .
The bones have belong , to individuals of various ages , they are mostly fragmentary , and th\lt ; lie scattered on the surface , or but lightly imbedded in the earl without reference to their proper anatomical relations .
Their coi dition will be better judged from the sample sent than from ar description that I could give .
Occasionally fragments occur bearin the marks of fire .
The works of art associated with them inclue broken jars , cups , cooking pots , and other utensils of earthenwar .
The pottery is of excellent make , and often glazed and painter Besides the pottery , beads and armlets of a very hard dark-blue glm pieces of iron , manufactured gold , and fragments of charcoal hav been met with .
Similar beads are in the possession of the Lam Dyaks at this day , but they can give no account of their origin .
No tradition is extant among the natives with regard to these relics No tribes in Borneo make habitual use of caves either as domiciles , o as places of sepulture , or for any other purpose .
The character o the earthenware , however , and the use of iron and gold point to t very modern date indeed for the people who left these signs of then presence and hence the subject , though curious to a local geologist does not call for any detailed remarks here .
It is very possible thal the remains date no farther back than the Hindu-Javanese occupation of Borneo , when this part of the island with Pontianak and Banjai were tributary to Majapahit , or they may be of Chinese origin\#151 ; iri either case quite recent .
4 .
Concluding Remarks .
The general result of the exploration may be summed up as follows : The existence of ossiferous caves in Borneo has been proved , and at the same time the existence of man in the island with the Fauna , whose remains are entombed in these caves .
But , both from the recent nature of this fauna , and from the fact that the race of men whose remains are associated with it had already reached an advanced stage of civilisation , the discovery has in no way aided the solution of those problems for the unravelling of which it was originally promoted .
No light has been thrown on the origin of the human race\#151 ; the history of the development of the fauna characterising the Indo-Malayan sub-region has not been advanced\#151 ; nor , virtually , has any evidence been obtained towards showing what races of men inhabited Borneo previously to the immigration of the various tribes of Malayan stock which now people the island .
Furthermore , the presumption that the northwest portion of Borneo has too recently emerged above the waters of the sea to render it probable that future discoveries will be made of cave deposits of greatly higher antiquity than those already examined , has been strengthened .
Under these circumstances it seems advisable that cavern research in north-west Borneo should now be left to 1880 .
] On the Exploration of the Caves of Borneo .
317 private enterprise , and that no further expense should be hazarded , at any rate , until the higher parts of the island in the north-east may be " " reniently examined ' a. HART EVERETT .
John Evans , Esq. Sarawak , August 6th , 1879 .
Notes on the foregoing Report .
Page 311 .
" Lines of old sea cliffs."\#151 ; I enclose a rough sketch of the Sibaiyat range of limestone hills , situated up the right-hand branch of the Sarawak River , which will assist in giving an idea of the appearance of the cliffs referred to .
In the Staat Mountain similar cliffs rise sheer up from the plain to a height of 1,200 feet .
I also enclose a sketch of that part of the Jambusan Hill known as Gunong Bak , in which are found caves V , XIII , and XXI .
This sketch was made about three years after the jungle had been removed by a bush-fire , and it will serve to show how the Sarawak limestone has been worn and scarred by denudational agencies .
Page 313 .
" Submerged to a diepth 500 feet."\#151 ; I infer that the last subsidence of north-west Borneo reached a depth of not less than 500 feet from the fact that the limestone hills between the upper part of the Sarawak River and the Samarahan exhibit traces of marine denudation equally with the hills situated nearer to the coast , although their bases are probably not less than 400 feet higher above the sea-level .
Pebbles of cinnabar ore have been met with on the summit of the Busan Hills .
The nearest deposit of cinnabar is that at Tagora , a peak rising nearly 800 feet above the sea-level at the base of the Bongoh Mountain , about eight miles to the southward .
It can hardly admit of doubt that these pebbles were carried to the spot in which they occurred when the Busan Hills were submerged beneath the sea , and , as the hills vary in height from 400 to 500 feet , we have , in this instance , almost demonstrative evidence of subsidence to the depth Avhich I have indicated as a probable minimum .
Page 313 .
" Indications of purely marine ."\#151 ; Every limestone hill is surrounded by a great assemblage of reefs , rocks , and sea-stacks , which often extend from side to side of the smaller valleys .
Where the superficial alluvium has been removed , it is seen that these rocks are , almost invariably , integral portions of a smoothly-worn and hollowed floor of limestone .
They decrease in number as the distance from the hill is increased ; but , in the immediate vicinity , if the jungle be cleared , the land may be observed to be literally studded with masses of limestone , all fantastically worn , and varying from the size of small boulders to that of craggy stacks , 30 or even 50 feet high .
Sometimes two reefs will run out parallel from the hill , and 318 Messrs. A. H. Everett , J. Evans , and Gr .
Busk .
[ Apr. l form a miniature cove , with a small cave at its inland extremity .
qq most striking form presented by the rocks are those of the " tabular and " mushroom " types .
Their bases being protected from the hone ' combing action of the rain , still present surfaces smoothly polished b the even wash of sea-waves .
The exact counterpart of these rocks an of these inland cliffs may be seen in the Philippine Archipelago on th present shores of the islands lying to the northward of Surigao .
Sue peculiar assemblages of rocks cannot be referred to the action r streams varying their course , for the rocks surround every hill , larg and small , and besides , the action of the streams in the limeston district of Sarawak is rather in the direction of cutting one definit channel in the solid rock and keeping to it .
Still less could the heavi tropical rains produce such results by their long-continued operation over a rock-surface of unequal hardness .
Were there no other argu ment against such a supposition , the presence of the " mushroom ' rocks would be fatal to it .
Page 314 .
" Sarawak Coast ... .
advancing \#151 ; The shore line of north-west Borneo ( Sarawak ) appears to be gaining on the sea steadily as a whole .
Whether the land is stationary and the gain is due solely to the amount of sediment poured into the sea by an extensive river system , draining a country composed of rocks peculiarly liable to rapid degradation by denudational agencies and exposed , at the same time , to a rainfall equalled by that of few countries on the face of the globe , or whether , in addition to the shoaling of the sea by the introduction of fluviatile debris , the land is at present undergoing a slow elevatory movement , I do not feel prepared to decide .
Of the mere fact of the recent increase of the land there is abundant evidence .
The coast between Lunder and Samarahan , and again , between Kalakat and Igan , is a flat belt of alluvial soil , but just raised above the level of the highest tides , and traversed in every direction by broad tidal channels .
The belt extends inland from ten to thirty miles .
Cape Sirik is its most prominent point , and , although it is composed of soft alluvium , and is exposed to the fury of the north-east monsoon , blowing down the whole expanse of the China Sea , this cape extends itself so rapidly seawards that the subject is one of common remark among the natives in its vicinity .
The Paloh Malanans have farmed close up to the point for many years past , and they state the addition to the land annually to average three fathoms .
One of the elder men pointed out a distance of nearly two miles , as showing the increase within his memory .
Numerous facts could be adduced pointing in the same direction .
Page 314 .
" No animals habitually rise caves."\#151 ; Wild pig are said by the natives to retire into caves to die .
This may explain why their remains are not uncommon in such situations .
I have seen traces of a bear in a cave , but as a rule none of the larger animals enter the 880 .
] On the Exploration of Caves of Borneo .
renis The latter , however , are not without a varied Fauna of their n Besides the infinite hosts of swifts ( ) and bats of many Icies which throng their recesses , owls , and occasionally hawks , are jet with .
Several kinds of snakes , lizards ( and sh and Crustacea also occur , as well as spiders , crickets , and myna-0da ( Julidce , Geophilus ?
Polydesmus ?
)The recent guano often warms with a slender yellow Bulimus .
Pave 316 .
" No tradition is extant."\#151 ; It has been suggested that these uperficial human remains are the remains of the Chinese who perished n the insurrection in Sarawak ( 1857 ) .
Apart from the decayed coalition of the bones , this idea is inadmissible for many reasons .
It is sufficient to mention the general identity of the remains at Niah in Brunei territory ( where there is no reason to suppose any Chinese were ever located ) with those of Ahup in Sarawak .
Page 316 .
" No tribe makes habitual use of caves."\#151 ; A very wild tribe of Punans , called by the natives Rock Punans , who inhabit the Treat Tibang Mountain at the source of the Rejang River , are popularly reported to live in caves , being so uncivilised as not yet to have learnt to construct artificial shelters .
The head of the Rejang has never been visited by a European , so that this report is probably incorrect .
Mr. Hugh B. Low , whose knowledge of the tribes of northwest Borneo is unequalled , writes in answer to my inquiries as follows :_ " I do not know of any tribe that buries its dead in caves .
Tana Nipa , of Tatan , was buried in a cave , but this was to secure him from his Dyak neighbours .
The Orang Kaya Sahgieng expressed a dying wish that he might be buried in Lubang Danan in Ba Koiat , but jt was only in order that he might gain an additional claim to the ca\ e in question , the ownership of which was disputed .
The ' tailed men ' between Mandai and Melani are said to live in caves .
" Note on the Collection of Bones from Caves in Borneo , le-ferred to in Mr. Everett 's Report on the * Exploration ot the Bornean Caves in 1878\#151 ; 9 .
' " By George Busk , I .R.b .
, Y.P. Anth .
Inst. With the exception of portions of the lower jaw of a small pig , and two or three detached teeth of the same animal , and some fragments of pottery , the collection is composed entirely of human remains .
The bones are all more or less fragmentary and vary very much in condition , some appearing as if they had lain on the surface of the ground , exposed to the weather , whilst others are partially encrusted with a friable , argillaceo-calcareous stalagmitic deposit , admitting of very easy removal .
None of the bones , though some are dry and fragile , appear to be of any antiquity , and none adhere to the tongue .

