439 1875 .
] Dr. J. Williams on the Discharge of Ova , fyc .
appears to be so closely connected with the existence of an undue amount of pressure .
In fig. II .
I find it rather difficult to think that the degree of pressure did not in some way modify the form of the tracing .
Of course if , as is most probable , reversal of the tracing depends solely on the cause I have pointed out , and can be produced in no other way , no possible effect can be attributed to any alteration of the spring-pressure , as the spring is dissociated from the cause of motion .
The only notice I have found in Marey 's work of any thing like such traces as I have described occurs at p. 282 , where he says :\#151 ; " Type 84 presents a singular peculiarity , the rebound has not had time to finish before the arrival of a fresh pulsation ; the result is a form which might be taken for a tracing inverted ( ecrit en sens ) ; but this depends only on the phenomena of dicrotism not having had time to work themselves out ( s'accomplir ) between two successive pulsations .
" The circumstance that the aortic notch is preserved during the arterial systole taking place under such altered circumstances is noteworthy , and shows the essentiality of this event .
It was remarking the presence of this notch which first made me suspect that the sloping ascent of the inverted tracing was not equivalent to the ascent of the ordinary .
The chief practical lesson to be derived from the foregoing statements is , that we need , in using the Sanderson-Marey sphygmograph , to be very careful that the brass plate is so placed as not to rest upon the artery .
If the artery is pressed on by the spring and the brass plate , the pressure of the latter being materially the greatest , the amplitude of the tracing may be factitiously increased .
If the brass plate alone press on the artery the tracing will be reversed .
I think the arch in the middle of the plate should be much wider than it is often made .
III .
u Note on the Discharge of Ova , and its relation in point of Time to Menstruation .
" By John Williams , M.D. Lond. , Assistant Obstetric Physician to University College Hospital .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey , F.R.S. Received April 7 , 1875 . !
It is a recognized fact in physiology that ova are discharged in connexion with the menstrual function , but it is uncertain at what time in the course of the month the separation takes place .
It is generally understood to occur towards the end of the discharge , or immediately after its cessation .
I have , however , reason to believe , from observations made in several subjects , that such is not the case , but that it takes place before the appearance of the monthly flow with which it is connected .
The cases which have come under my observation fall into four series , as follows:\#151 ; A. Cases , six in number , in which a Graafian follicle had been matured and actually ruptured .
440 Dr. J. Williams on the Discharge of Ova , and [ May 27 , ( 1 ) The first of these was a young girl who died through the effects of a fall , three or four days before the expected return of the catamenia .
In the left ovary was a recently ruptured Graafian follicle .
The cavity of the follicle was about f inch in diameter , and contained a recent clot , which projected slightly through the rupture ; the clot was of a fresh red colour , nowhere adherent to the parts around , for on making a section through the follicle it fell out .
The wall of the vesicle was of a pale yellowish colour , and slightly wrinkled .
The rupture had evidently taken place a short time only before death .
( 2 ) The second subject was a woman who died suddenly through a fall , probably a fortnight after the cessation of the last menstrual flow .
On examination a considerable quantity of blood was found in the cavity of the peritoneum , and the liver was torn .
In the left ovary was a ruptured follicle , with corrugated and collapsed walls ; its cavity contained no blood , but there was a slight effusion between its lining membrane and its outer coat .
The depth of the follicle from the rupture to the furthest point of the opposite wall measured nearly inch .
It is not impossible that this follicle was ruptured somewhat prematurely by the shock of the fall .
( 3 ) The next example was observed during life .
Mr. Christopher Heath performed ovariotomy on a patient on the fourteenth day after the cessation of the last catamenial discharge .
Menstruation lasted usually three days , and the patient had always been regular every four weeks .
In the ordinary course of things the next flow would have appeared in eleven days .
When the diseased ovary had been removed , the remaining one was raised up , with a view to see if it were healthy , and it was observed that it contained an enlarged Graafian follicle , which became ruptured when being held in the hand .
I ought to add that the flow returned three days after the operation , and eight days before it was due .
( 4 ) The next case was a young woman who died of pleurisy on the fifth day of menstruation .
On the surface of the left ovary was a rough , brownish-coloured , star-like cicatrix .
On section there was seen under the cicatrix a corpus luteum , dilated in the middle and narrow at both ends , nearly f inch in length and \ inch in width ; its walls were in some parts of a pinkish and in others of a yellowish colour , slightly if at all thicker than those previously mentioned , and had small prominences on its inner surface .
In the centre was a partially decolorized clot , which was but slightly adherent to the surrounding walls .
From these characters it is evident that the rupture of the follicle had taken place several days before .
( 5 ) The fifth member of this series was a patient who died on the fourth day of menstruation , and about the ninth of typhoid fever .
One ovary contained a corpus luteum similar to the one just described .
( 6 ) The last example occurred in a young girl , who died of pneumonia 875 .
] its relation in point of Time to .441 ix days after the cessation of the catamenia .
On the surface of the ight ovary was a small cicatrix , beneath which was a corpus luteum nth the following characters :\#151 ; It was of an irregular , elongated shape , learly | inch in length and | in width ; had thick , yellow , convoluted vails , and enclosed a small whitish mass , in which were two dark-oloured spots , which were evidently the remains of a clot .
This ovary ontained also a Graafian follicle of the size of a small pea .
The deter-aination of the age of effused blood is always difficult .
In the Graafian ollicle which becomes ruptured without impregnation taking place it is mown that certain definite changes occur ; the wall of the vesicle becomes hick , yellow , and convoluted ; the blood which flowed into it and filled t becomes decolorized and absorbed .
The exact length of time in which hese changes in the follicle are brought about is not accurately deter-nined , but it is known that the corpus luteum of one menstruation has jecome considerably atrophied by the return of the next .
It appears to me that the yellow body in the last example of this group vas considerably older than the two preceding ones , and that it was more han a fortnight old , and that the two preceding ones were from eight to Den days .
B. Cases , four in number , in which a Graafian follicle had been matured , and haemorrhage had taken place into its cavity , but no actual rupture had occurred .
( 1 ) The first case was a patient who died of pyaemia in the third week after the cessation of the last catamenial flow .
The left ovary contained a follicle | inch in diameter , distended by a recent non-adherent , softish coagulum , uniform in consistence and colour .
This follicle was prominent above the adjacent surface of the ovary ; and its superficial wall was thick , and presented no tendency to point or rupture .
There was no recent rupture to be seen on the surface of either ovary .
( 2 ) The second example was a woman who had undergone an operation for fistula in ano .
The monthly flow made its appearance a week before the expected time for its return , and she died five days after .
One ovary contained a follicle measuring inch by g inch ; this follicle contained a bright red , fresh , loose clot , and its walls were thin and not corrugated .
From these characters it appears that the haemorrhage into the follicle had taken place but a short time before death .
( 3 ) The next was a patient who had undergone an operation for the removal of an ovarian tumour .
She died a fortnight after the operation , when she had menstruated for one day .
At the inner extremity of the left ovary was a large , dark-coloured , softish mass , which , on section , proved to be a Graafian follicle containing a brick-red-coloured clot , which appeared to be of a spongy texture .
It could with difficulty be turned out of the sac .
After its removal it was seen that the wall of the sac was formed by a thin yellowish substance .
( 4 ) The last example in this group was a person who suffered with fibroid tumour of the uterus .
She died on the third or fourth day of the 442 Dr. J. Williams on the Discharge of Ova , and [ May 21 menstrual flow .
Both ovaries were bound to the surrounding structure by tough and firm false membranes .
The left contained a follicle near ] an inch in length , in which was found a softish , dark-coloured clot , havin a spongy texture , which appeared to be several days old .
In the first and third members of this group haemorrhage had take : place into the , follicle unquestionably before the appearance of the cata menial discharge .
In the second , haemorrhage had occurred before the flow had become due ; but the latter , owing to surgical interference , having returned week before its time , the haemorrhage took place while the discharge wa in progress .
In the fourth , the condition of the clot makes it almost certain tha the haemorrhage had taken place before the appearance of the catamenia C. One case , in which a Graafian follicle had matured , but where neithe rupture nor haemorrhage had actually occurred .
This was a patient who died of typhoid fever just before the appearance of the catamenia .
In one ovary there was an enlarged Graafiai follicle , which was highly vascular , and projected like a nipple beyonc the surrounding surface .
It was evidently on the point of bursting , anc it is doubtful whether rupture of the follicle or the appearance of th( discharge would have taken place first .
D. Cases , three in number , in which no Graafian follicle had become enlarged to the size exhibited by it at maturity .
The first was a patient in whom the menstrual flow had almost ceased There was no rupture in either ovary , but the right contained a Graafian follicle about the size of a small pea .
The next was a young suicide , who died three days after the cessation of the catamenial discharge .
There was no recent rupture in eithei ovary , but the left contained a follicle similar to the one seen in the preceding case .
The last member of the series was a girl who died of peritonitis , caused by the rupture of an abscess on the right ovary .
In the left was a Graafian follicle about the size of a small pea , but no recent rupture .
The state of the lining membrane of the uterus showed that in this case menstruation was imminent .
Besides the appearances described , there were in all the preceding cases numerous Graafian follicles , varying in size from a millet-seed downwards , together with some superficial pits and atrophied corpora lutea .
These cases appear to me to bear out the opinion stated at the beginning of the paper , that , in the great majority of subjects , the discharge of ova takes place before the appearance of the menstrual flow with which it is connected ; for in ten out of the fourteen rupture of a follicle , or haemorrhage into its cavity , had occurred before the return of the catamenia ; in one it was doubtful whether rupture of a follicle , or the appearance of the discharge would have taken place first ; in two a menstrual period had passed without maturation of a follicle ; and in one L875 .
] relation in point of Time to .
443 i periodical discharge was imminent , though the ovaries contained no matured Graafian follicle .
It is not improbable that the follicles which vere found in the three last cases , and which were enlarged to the size of a small pea , would have become mature by the next return of the flow .
I have carefully considered the cases recorded by Cruikshanb , Jones , Paterson , Lee , Girdwood , Negrier , Cost and others , and find that , though they do not contribute materially to the solution of the question discussed in this paper , yet , in so far as they go , they favour the view put forward here\#151 ; a view which derives support from the custom imposed by the Levitical law , and observed to this day by the stricter sect of the Hebrew community .
Postscript .
Received June 10 , 1875 .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey , P.R.S. Since writing the above , I have had opportunities to examine two subjects in whom the date of the last menstruation was known .
The first was a girl aged 17 years , who died on the fifth day after admission to the Middlesex Hospital of traumatic tetanus .
She was said to have ceased to menstruate just before admission ; and the condition of the inner surface of the uterus confirmed that statement .
The uterus and ovaries were small and imperfectly developed .
On the surface of the right ovary was found a patch S inch in diameter , slightly injected , and presenting a punctated appearance .
In its centre was a cicatrix , appearing as a white spot , beneath which was situated a yellow body , elongated and irregularly flattened in shape .
This appeared to be due to pressure from several Graafian follicles growing in close proximity to it , the largest of which was as large as a small pea .
The yellow body measured nearly \ inch in length ; it had folded walls , and in its centre was a thin elongated clot , the middle of which was of a dark colour .
The second subject was aged 26 years ; she died of Bright 's disease .
The last menstruation began May 13th , ceased May 19th , and death occurred May 28th , 15 days after the appearance of the flow .
Haemorrhage had taken place into the superficial tissue of the ovaries , probably by reason of the condition of the blood .
In the right was a small superficial prominence formed by a yellow body , which measured about S inch in diameter ; it was throughout of a yellowish colour , and contained no trace of the colouring-matter of blood .
On comparing these organs with one another and with those previously described , I am led to infer that in the first 12 to 14 days , and in the second about 20 days had elapsed since rupture of the follicle occurred .
\#166 ; Reichert has examined 23 organs in which signs of menstruation were recognizable .
In four cases a Graafian follicle had matured but not ruptured , nor had haemorrhage taken place , though the decidua menstrualis was in a state of greater or less development j in eighteen cases a Graafian follicle 444 Mr. Mallet on the Mechanism of [ May 2 , had ruptured , and haemorrhage had taken place into the decidua ; in one ca\gt ; only , in which bleeding had not begun , had a Graafian follicle been ru tured .
The latter statement appears opposed to the conclusions at whi I have arrived ; but this is only apparent ; for in one case a follicle h ; ruptured , in four a Graafian follicle had matured before haemorrhage bega and in one of these rupture was on the eve of taking place ; in eightet a follicle had ruptured , and haemorrhage had taken place into the decidi menstrualis .
Put in this form , Reichert 's cases are not opposed to tl conclusions arrived at in the preceding note ; and as his cases have n been described , it is not possible to say what their actual bearing may b The conclusion arrived at by Reichert , after examination of the 23 spec mens , however , is that rupture of the Graafian follicle takes place at a early stage of the menstrual flow .
IV .
" Note on Mr. Mallet^s Paper on the Mechanism of Strom boli"* .
By Robert Mallet , F.R.S. Received May 21,1875 .
Since the appearance of my paper on Stromboli some strictures hostil to the views therein contained have been publishedf , in which it is urge that the elevation of the fundus , or bottom of the visible crater , which !
I have assumed at 300 to 400 feet above the sea , is greatly below tb truth , that being , it is affirmed , at least 2000 feet above the sea-level .
It i added that " Mr. Mallet 's whole theory hangs upon the proximity of th bottom of the crater to the sea-level , " and that " Mr. Mallet 's hypothesi of the mechanism of Stromboli is based entirely on these grossly inac curate measurements .
" It is unnecessary that I should occupy the tim of the Society by any discussion as to the correctness or incorrectness o either of the above levels , neither of which are more than loose approxi mations ; but I beg permission to point out that the theory of the rhyth mical action of Stromboli which I have proposed does not rest upon th proximity of the fundus to the sea-level , and stands equally valid whethe the height of the tube C ( see diagram no. 4 , p. 512 , Proc. Roy .
Soc 1874 ) , or , what is the same thing , the difference in level between the se\#163 ; and the bottom of the crater , be 300 to 400 feet or 2000 feet .
Thai tube , whether long or short , is never filled , according to my views , by i column of liquid lava or water , but only with steam more or less dense before being blown off to a lower pressure ; and the only change introduced by lengthening the tube C is , that a greater volume of steam is required to fill it ; so that the tube being supposed of uniform calibre , the volume of steam required to produce equal tensions in the shorter or longer tube , as above stated , would be about as one to five ; and no difficulty can suggest itself to the mind , of any physicist as to the adequacy of the mechanism that I have suggested for such supply .
* Proc. Roy .
Soc. 1874 , vol. xxii .
p. 496 .
t Geol .
Mag. , Dec. 1874 and May 1875 .

