An Attempt to rectify the Inaccuracy of some Logarithmic Formule .
By John Thomas Graves , of the Inner Temple , Esq. Communicated by John Frederick William .
Herschel , Esq. V.P. Read December 18 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 171 .
] The discovery made by Poisson and Poinsot during their recent researches on angular sections , of errors in trigonometrical formulae usually deemed complete , drew the attention of the author to an analogous incorrectness in logarithmic series .
He , accordingly proposes in the present paper to exhibit in an amended form two fundamental developements ; the principles employed in the establishment of which admit of application in expanding by different methods various similar functions , and tend also to elucidate other parts of the exponential theory .
He then enters into an analytical investigation of the equation a= y , and exhibits correct developements ; first , of y in terms of and x ; and secondly , of x in terms of a aid y ; the corresponding developements hitherto given being incomplete .
He considers the principles employed in this inquiry as presenting a solution of many difficulties , and illustrating peculiarities appertaining to the theory of logarithms of negative quantities ; and when applied to geometry , as -furnishing the means of tracing the form and developing the properties of curves whose equations involve exponential quantities .
He also states that by their means various differential and other formulae usually exhibited in treatises on logarithms may be rendered complete .
An appendix is subjoined containing several examples of these applications of his principles .
In the course of his investigations , the author endeavours to explain the remarkable anomaly which frequently presents itself to the analyst , of developements , in which , upon substituting a particular value for the variable in each , there is no approximation to numerical identity between the several resulting series , calculated to any number of terms , and the respective functions which they ought to represent .
He combats the paradoxical opinion which has been advanced , that equations , which in particular instances are numerically false , are yet analytically true ; and explains the difficulty by reverting to the limitations inherent in the hypothesis upon which the developement is founded .
He maintains , in opposition to the opinions of Jean Bernouilli and D'Alembert , that the logarithms of negative and positive numbers are not in general the same ; and hence infers that negative numbers have occasionally even real logarithms .
The chief novelty of his system consists in showing that any assigned quantity , relatively to a given base , has an infinite number of orders of logarithms , and an infinite number of logarithms in each order .

