206 Dr. C. A. MaoMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 , III .
" Further Researches into the Colouring-matters of Human Urine , with an Account of their Artificial Production from Bilirubin , and from Hsematin .
" By Charles A. MacMunn , B.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Michael Foster , Prelector of Physiology in Trinity College , Cambridge .
Received November 10 , 1880 .
In a former paper which I had the honour of laying before the Royal Society , I endeavoured to describe the spectroscopic and some of the chemical characters of febrile urobilin .
In the present paper I have given the results of further spectro-scopical research , which had for its object:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) To determine the differences which might exist between those urinary pigments which are recognisable by means of the spectroscope , in health and disease .
( 2 .
) The isolation of normal urinary pigment , giving the band at P. ( 3 .
) To attempt to trace back to their source all these pigments .
( 4 .
) To examine bile more carefully for the presence of urobilin .
( 5 .
) To find an explanation of the absorption-bands noticed in the bile of certain animals .
In this paper I shall give principally the spectroscopic appearances of these pigments , reserving for a future communication a full description of their chemical characters .
Speculation will be avoided as much as possible , and a plain statement of the facts which presented themselves will be adhered to , which show that there is irresistible evidence of the relationship between the colouring-matters of blood , bile , and urine .
It is probable that a knowledge of how the urinary pigments can be prepared artificially will be of great use in enabling us to understand how they are produced in the body .
Thus the knowledge of the fact that the spectrum of urobilin varies according to the amount and the kind of oxidation , or reduction , or both , to which it has been subjected in the body , which I shall endeavour to show is the case , is of great importance , especially as we can produce in the laboratory pigments ( from bile- and blood-colouring matter ) , by a greater or a less amount of oxidation or reduction , or of both combined , which can be made to resemble exactly pigments obtained from urine in health and disease .
The Spectrum of Normal IJrine : Its Rand due to the presence of a Figment indistinguishable from Gholetelin.\#151 ; In examining urine obtained from individuals in a healthy condition , I always can see a band at F , and when a layer sufficiently deep to show this band is treated with caustic soda , caustic potash , or ammonia , the band can be no longer seen .
On the subsequent addition of an acid , it is again brought into view .
But if the urine be obtained from a febrile case , or indeed , 1880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine , 207 from a case where there may be but a slight departure from the normal condition , the band at F is replaced by a band nearer the red , when these reagents , caustic soda or caustic potash , are added ; but ammonia causes its disappearance .
The reason of this is , that in the latter case , febrile urobilin is present .
When , therefore , the pigment which gives the band at F is isolated from healthy human urin6 , it should present the same spectroscopie characters as the urine containing it .
Such is the case : for when normal chrome-yellow coloured urine is precipitated with neutral and basic acetate of lead , the precipitate extracted with alcohol acidulated with sulphuric acid , the acidulated alcohol containing the pigment separated by filtration from the lead precipitate , the fluid diluted with water and shaken with chloroform in a separating funnel , the chloroform separated , and then distilled off , a residue is left , which is a brown-yellow , amorphous , nitrogenous pigment , soluble in alcohol , ether , chloroform , and benzol , also in acids , and which gives in its various solutions the same band that was seen in the urine , and altered in the same manner by reagents , as it was altered in that fluid .
While febrile urobilin gives a sharp black band at F of intensity the band of normal urobilin is less marked at its edges , and is less shaded than the former .
Its alcoholic solution shows the band well , and when this is treated with caustic soda , caustic potash , or ammonia , it disappears .
Sometimes its disappearance may not be complete , and in that case , the pigment which I named urolutein in my former paper may be present .
The pigment may sometimes appear more brown than brown-yellow in colour , and in that case it shows a tendency to imitate febrile urobilin in its behaviour with the caustie alkalies , for on their addition a feeble band may be noticed nearer the red than the original band .
More especially is this likely to occur if the acidulated alcohol contains too much acid , or if the fluid be left too long in the separating funnel.* As a general rule , the more the .colour of the pigment approaches to brown , or brownish-red in colour , the more does it resemble febrile urobilin in its characters .
The colour depends upon the amount of oxidation to which it has been subjected in the body , as well as on its artificial preparation , as I shall endeavour to show afterwards .
The band of normal urobilin is shown in Chart I , sp. 2 .
As a general rule , it extends , when examined in a suitable depth of alcohol , from wave-length 507 to wave-length 482 .
While alcoholic solutions of febrile urobilin are red in colour , and become yellow with caustic alkalies , the alcoholic solution of this pigment becomes redder with caustic soda .
This is well marked when the alcoholic solution is treated with sodium amalgam , for after the introduction of this sub- * Because in that case the chromogen of febrile urobilin is oxidised into febrile urobilin .
( Vide infra .
" ) Q 2 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the Chart I. [ Dec. 16 , 1880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
stance , the colour of the fluid becomes orange-red , and general absorption of the violet end of the spectrum takes place .
This re-action at once shows a likeness between this pigment and choletelin , but even a more striking likeness is exhibited by the action of chloride i of zinc , for when the pigment in its alcoholic solution is treated with .chloride of zinc , the colour of the fluid at once gets redder , and it then shows a narrow and sharp band nearer the red end of the spectrum . ?
The edge of this band nearer the red is the more abruptly shaded , ithat next the violet shows a gradually decreasing shading .
Thus , f faking an actual experiment:\#151 ; Band before zinc chloride , wave-length 504 to wave-length 484 .
Band after zinc chloride ( sp. 3 ) .
Dark part of band , wave-length 516 to wave-length 501 .
Feeble shadow up to wave-length 484 .
If , now , caustic soda be added to the fluid treated by zinc chloride , the precipitate being dissolved in an excess of that reagent , the fluid becomes yellow , and the same band as that got by treating febrile urobilin is then seen , of intensity S. Now Heynsius and Campbell* found that choletelin acted in the same manner , for it could not be made to give this band S , until it had been first treated with zinc chloride .
The following differences collected together were found to exist between normal and febrile urobilin :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The acidulated alcoholic extract of the lead precipitate is lighter in colour than that of febrile urobilin .
( 2 .
) The chloroformic solution is of a yellow colour , and when poured on a Berlin dish it is seen to be slightly reddish where its edge touches the dish .
The same solution of the febrile urobilin is red .
( 3 .
) The absorption-band in the urine , in alcoholic solutions and in chloroformic solutions , has less well-defined edges and is less shaded than that of febrile urobilin .
( 4 .
) The band at F is made to disappear by means of caustic alkalies , while it is replaced by another in the case of febrile urobilin .
( 5 .
) The pigment is yellow-brown , febrile urobilin being reddish-brown .
When sodium amalgam is put into an alcoholic solution , as previously mentioned , the colour becomes orange , but by continuing the action longer , then acidulating with hydrochloric acid and shaking with chloroform , and evaporating off the chloroform , I obtained a brownish pigment , which , when dissolved in alcohol and treated with caustic soda , gave a band on each side of D ( Chart I , sp. 4 ) .
Now , it is a remarkable fact , that I subsequently observed the same bands on * " Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss .
" 1872 , p. 696 .
210 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 treating febrile urobilin , obtained from a case of pleurisy , with , caustic soda ( Chart I , sp. 17 ) , and I think this points to the conclusion that normal urobilin has a tendency to pass , when reduced by sodium amalgam , into the condition of febrile urobilin.* Moreover , these bands indicate the source of the pigment in the economy , as similar bands are seen in the spectrum of a pigment obtained from gall-stones ( Chart II , sp. 2 ) , in that of the alcoholic extract of bile-colouring matter , and also in that observed when hsematoin was reduced by means of sodium amalgam in the neutral state at the ordinary temperature , and the fluid examined at an early stage of the reaction .
A faint band covering D may sometimes be seen in solutions of normal urobilin , but I have not yet determined upon what conditions its presence may depend .
( See , however , Chart II , sp. 15 .
) It can only be seen in deep layers of alcoholic solution .
The amount of normal urobilin in urine is small , but what I have been able to obtain after about thirty experiments will suffice to establish its identity .
This pigment has , up to the present time , been confounded with febrile urobilin , but it will be seen that it is quite a different body .
Before I had succeeded in isolating it , I had concluded that it was identical with febrile urobilin , and since this normal urobilin is identical with choletelin , and since the latter pigment is produced by oxidation from bilirubin , I had concluded that febrile urobilin was produced by oxidation .
It would appear that febrile urobilin , although it may represent an intermediate stage of the oxidation of bilirubin , is capable of being produced by reduction of choletelin , and therefore of normal urobilin , and also of a similar body produced by the-oxidation of hsematoin by peroxide of hydrogen .
We may conclude that febrile urobilin is the same body as that obtained by Maly , and which he called hydrobilirubin , but that the present pigment is an entirely different body , and is produced by oxidation .
But there-is another body present in urine which is capable of passing into the condition of febrile urobilin when strong oxidising agents are made to-act on the urine , in fact , it may be accepted as an established truth , that the chromogen of febrile urobilin exists in normal urine .
Disquef believes that it is this body which furnishes urobilin when urine is treated with acids , and that it is oxidised in the presence of chloroform into that body .
Such may be true in some cases , but not in all , , as the following experiment will show .
When a stream of chlorine is passed through perfectly normal urine , or when this fluid is treated with permanganate of potassium , bromine in aqueous solution , or ozone , the colour soon changes to yellowish-red , and a black band is seen at F. When caustic soda is added after such treatment , this * Again , they may be seen when normal urobilin has more of a brownish tinge , , by treatment with caustic soda alone .
t " Chem. Centr .
, " 1878 , s. 711 .
1880.1 Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
iband is replaced by another nearer the red end of the spectrum , as in the case of febrile urobilin .
Now , from another part of the same urine , which has not hem thus treated , we can , by precipitation with lead acetate , and subsequent treatment with acidulated alcohol and !
chloroform , obtain normal urobilin .
It therefore appears that it is not I by the oxidation of the chromogen of febrile urobilin* that normal urobilin is obtained , but.that this body ( i.e. , normal urobilin ) is present in the urine as such , or part may be present as its own chromogen .
That such is the case will appear to be likely , when I come to describe the artificial production of normal urobilin from hsematin .
Urohcematin .
A Pigment excreted in the Urine of a case of Subacute Rheumatism.\#151 ; The patient in whose urine this pigment occurred , was suffering from subacute rheumatism , and was taking 15 grs. of the salicylate of soda three times a-day .
This pigment is of great interest as it can be prepared with ease artificially from haematin ; and as it appears to be incapable of production from bilirubin , I have named it urohasmatin .
The urine was a dark reddish-yellow colour , but did not contain blood or bile pigments as proved by appropriate tests .
It gave a black band 63\#151 ; 74 , or wave-length 507 to 480 ; with caustic soda , this band was replaced by another of intensity / 3 or 7 , from wave-length 513 to 491 .
No other bands were noticed in the urine itself .
1,000 \lt ; jub .
centims. of the urine were taken and precipitated with neutral and basic acetate of lead , and afterwards treated in the same manner as that already described , !
for the isolation of normal urobilin .
The chloroformic solution gave the remarkable spectrum seen in Chart I , sp. 6 , and was the colour of dark golden sherry .
In a thinner layer another band , \lt ; % , made its appearance , reading wave-length 507 to 484 .
( Cf .
sp. 8 .
) When the chloroform was distilled off , the residue was seen to be a dark-brown colour , and was soluble in alcohol , giving a red solution , and sp. 7 , Chart I , and sp. 8 .
Ammonia did not cause the disappearance of the band at F when added to the alcoholic solution , but acted like caustic soda , namely , by causing another band , nearer the red than was the original one at F , to appear .
Caustic soda made the fluid orange in colour , and shifted some of the bands very slightly , as shown in Chart I , sp. 9 , but the replacement of that at F was well marked , sp. 10 .
* It is this chromogen which becomes oxidised when urine begins to decompose , so that stale healthy urine may contain febrile urobilin as such , and give its spectrum .
+ The acidulated alcohol extract gives almost the same spectrum as that got by treating artificially prepared normal urobilin , reduced by means of sodium amalgam , with sulphuric acid .
( See sp. 5 , Chart I , and cf. sp. 11 , Chart I , and sp. 12 , Chart I , and Chart III , sp. 17 .
) 21 % Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 The pigment was slightly soluble in ether and in benzol , but insoluble in bisulphide of carbon .
Hydrochloric acid and water dissolved the pigment completely , and L different spectrum was then seen ( Chart I , sp. 11 ) .
Strong sulphuric acid dissolved the pigment , forming a red solution , giving sp. 12 , Chart I. Permanganate of potassium did not seem to affect the spectrum , but peroxide of hydrogen seemed to remove the feeble bands , leaving a shadow from wave-length 584 to 567 and a band , * , wave-length 507 to 482 , Sulphurous acid made the alcoholic solution lighter in colour , and gave in deep layer almost the same spectrum as with sulphuric and hydrochloric acids ; and in a thinner layer , the band at F was the same as before its addition .
Hyposulphite of sodium did not affect the spectrum .
When the alcoholic solution was treated with sodium its reddish-brown colour changed to pale yellow after fourteen hours ' action , and it then gave sp. 13 , Chart I. When this yellow fluid was cautiously neutralised , and then slightly acidified with hydrochloric acid , it became redder in colour and then gave sp. 14 , Chart I , in a suitable depth .
When the fluid treated by sodium amalgam , and subsequently hydrochloric acid , was treated by permanganate of potassium , the band at F was made fainter , and did not appear to be replaced by another when caustic soda was added .
This pigment was darker brown than febrile urobilin , which has a reddish-brown colour , and it was evidently nearer to acid hsematin than the latter pigment .
Its affinity to the latter pigment was shown by the way in which its band at F was affected by caustic soda , but by the way in which that band was affected by ammonia it was seen to be different .
By the action of zinc and sulphuric acid on acid hmmatin , I have succeeded in obtaining the same pigment ( as will be described further on ) , and the solutions of the artificially prepared pigment gave the same spectra as those of this one , band for band , and the spectra of its various solutions were altered in the same manner as those of the present one by reagents .
It would therefore appear that the various bands seen in solutions of urohsematin are all due to one pigment , and not to the presence of impurities .
Urobilin , from the Urine of a case of , probably due to Tuberculosis.\#151 ; There was but slight effusion into the pleural cavities ; the temperature of the patient was 101 ' F. The urine was reddish-yellow in colour , contained neither bile or blood , and gave a black band at F , * Cf .
the action of sodium amalgam on haematoin , infra .
1880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
which was replaced by another one less shaded and nearer the red when caustic soda was added .
360 cub. centims. of the urine were precipitated with neutral and basic acetate of lead and treated as before .
The acidulated alcoholic extract of the lead precipitate gave in deep layers no bands in red or orange .
This alcoholic extract was red in colour .
In shallow layers a black band was seen at F ( Chart I , sp. 15 and sp. 16 ) .
The chloroformic solution was reddish-yellow and gave a black band at F , * and a feeble shadow extending for about the breadth of the band itself on its red ward side .
In deep layers no other bands could be seen .
The black band a read from wave-length 501 to 482 .
The pigment left after the evaporation of the chloroform was reddish-brown in colour , and behaved like febrile urobilin as to solubility .
Alcohol dissolved it , giving a reddish-yellow solution , which with caustic soda became perhaps slightly , and it then gave in deep layers sp. 17 , Chart I , and in shallow sp. 18 .
These two bands at D were seen when normal urobilin was treated with sodium amalgam , as already referred to .
( Vide supra .
' ) With chloride of zinc another band appeared nearer the red in the i position of that produced by caustic soda .
This pigment did not give the same characters as normal urobilin , nor yet did it give exactly those of febrile urobilin .
From the appearance of the bands near D with caustic soda , and taking into consideration the fact that these bands were noticed when normal urobilin was reduced with sodium amalgam , I believe the conclusion follows that this pigment was less oxidised than normal urobilin and less reduced than febrile urobilin .
I have selected this pigment to show that the statement made in my former paper was correct , and that urobilin f appears capable of existing in different states of oxidation .
I have come to the conclusion that the greater the number of feeble ' absorption-bands noticed , the less the oxidation to which the pigment has been subjected in the body .
As a type of a pigment which has been produced by reduction only , I may refer to urohaematin .
Preliminary Experiments on the Oxidation of Bile Pigments.\#151 ; In attempting to trace back normal and febrile urobilin to their origin , one naturally begins with bilirubin ; consequently my first experiments were made on solutions of bilirubin , obtained by treating human bile with alcohol to precipitate the mucus , and then , after filtration , shaking with chloroform .
I was not aware that I was dealing with solutions which might also have contained urobilin ; in fact , I had come to the opposite conclusion , since such solutions failed to give a band at F. But when one considers that , even in spite of the absence * It was noted that the shading on the red ward side of the band at F was only \#166 ; seen in chloroformic solutions .
T This remark applies to pathological pigments more especially .
214 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. lfi ' of that band , urobilin might be present\#151 ; for its band is invisible in slightly alkaline or neutral solution , and even after shaking with chloroform it may still be invisible until after an acid has been added \#151 ; the conclusion follows that what has been supposed to be due to the transformation of bilirubin into urobilin may , after all , be nothing more than the gradual appearance under oxidation of the band of a pigment already existing in the solution .
The behaviour of even impure solutions such as these is , however , very instructive .
When a chloroformic solution is put into a stoppered bottle , so as to fill it about one-third , and the bottle is shaken from time to time , the fluid gradually gets light in colour .
The general absorption of the violet end of the spectrum characteristic of bilirubin gradually gives way to an interesting special absorption , which is characterised by the appearance of a band on each side of D , which is soon followed by the i appearance of one at F. Then the former bands fade gradually away , leaving the band at F. This change was found to have been completed at the end of three weeks , and the colour of the fluid was then a pale brownish-yellow with transmitted daylight .
The same series of changes in the spectrum accompanies the play of colour got by the action of nitric acid on bilirubin , and at the penultimate stage of the reaction , at the brown-yellow stage , we can isolate the pigment giving the band at F. But if the reaction be allowed to go on further , the fluid becomes almost colourless , and no longer can the band at F be seen .
Isolated at the penultimate stage , the pigment is found to be choletelin , but it is evident that if the bilirubin thus treated contained urobilin , accurate inferences cannot be drawn from the characters of the pigment isolated , as it might be not only an oxidised pigment derived from bilirubin , but also a decomposition product of urobilin .
Preparation of Pure Bilirubin.\#151 ; Accordingly , it became necessary to procure pure bilirubin , which was done accordiug to the directions given in the excellent " Handbook for the Physiological Laboratory " of Professor Burdon-Sanderson .
Brown human gall-stones were powdered , extracted with ether , the residue boiled with water and treated with diluted hydrochloric acid .
After washing and drying , the mass was boiled with chloroform ; the chloroform distilled off over the water-bath ; the residue treated with absolute alcohol .
It was then treated with ether and alcohol repeatedly , and again dissolved in chloroform , from which it was precipitated by absolute alcohol .
The pigment thus obtained was an amorphous orange-coloured powder .
It is not possible in the limits of this paper to describe all the reactions and the spectra of the solutions obtained by this treatment of the gall-stones , so that I shall only refer briefly to them as they bear upon the subjects discussed here .
The first ether extraction of the gall-stones gave two bands , which are evidently those of lutein 7 from wave-length 482 to 469 , and 2 from wave-length 459 to 442 .
1880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
The hot water extraction of a brownish colour gave a band , from wave-length 507 to 486 .
The acidulated water also gave a faint band lin the same part of the spectrum .
The alcoholic extract gave a band ( on each side of D , which latter were evidently similar bands to those--noticed in solutions of the urobilin of pleurisy treated by caustic soda , I or in solutions of normal urobilin treated by sodium amalgam , and in the intermediate stage of Gmelin 's reaction , and in the alcoholic extract of human and sheep-bile pigments , and which can be prepared artificially by the action of sodium amalgam , the , on solutions of hsematoin ( when the pigment has been separated in the neutral state ) .
This alcoholic solution was of a red colour with transmitted light in deep layers , while it was yellow in thin layers .
One band , 7 , extended from wave-length 620 to 592 , the other , 8 , from wave-length 585 to 569 , sp. 2 , Chart II .
With ammonia this fluid gave the spectrum seen in Chart II , sp. 8 .
The occurrence of these latter bands shows that the gall-stones contained urobilin , * as similar bands are seen by similar treatment of urobilin when it is obtained from bilirubin by sodium amalgam , as will be referred to again .
Action of Chlorine on Pure Bilirubin.\#151 ; The colours and changes of spectrum , similar to those which accompany Gmelin 's reaction , can be studied with great ease by passing chlorine , well diluted with oxygen ( such as may be obtained in traces when black oxide of manganese is heated with chlorate of potassium ) , into a chloroformic solution of pure bilirubin .
In such a solution this reagent brought about the following changes in the colour and spectrum .
The colour of the original solution being orange , it soon changed to :\#151 ; 1 .
Greenish-yellow .
2 .
Sap-green ( band before D , 625 to 598 wave-length ) .
3 .
Dark sap-green .
4 .
Green .
5 .
Bluish-green ( band before D and traces of another after D ) .
6 .
Dark blue-green ( band before D , and band from wave-length* 588\#151 ; 546 ) i 7 .
Indigo-blue ( two bands , as before , and slight shading at F ) .
8 .
Indigo ( band / 3 , wave-length 620\#151 ; 598 ; e , 588\#151 ; 555 ; a , 504\#151 ; \#151 ; 482 ) i 9 .
Purplish-blue ( band at F black ; e , fainter ) .
10 .
Lilac ( band at F black , e almost gone , and / 3 faint ) .
11 .
Port-wine red ( / 3 fainter ; a as before ) .
12 .
Reddish-yellow ( a getting fainter , others gone ) .
13 .
Light yellow ( no band to be seen ) .
These appearances are represented in , sp. 4 to sp. 10 , Chart II ; When pure and dry chlorine , prepared in the usual manner and * i.e. , urobilin of biliary origin .
\#166 ; 216 Dr. 0 .
A. MacMmin .
Researches into the [ Dec. If HU Chart II .
I 70 80 30 100 110 880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
217 mrified by being passed into a solution of sulphate of copper , then strong sulphuric acid and , lastly , U-tubes containing chloride of .alcium , is made to pass through a solution of bilirubin in chloroform fried by chloride of calcium for some days previously , the colour of he fluid changes much more rapidly , but the changes in colour are accompanied by the same changes in the spectrum already noticed .
I On the Reduction of the Pigment present in the last stage to the -llition of Febrile Urobilin by means of Sodium Amalgam.\#151 ; It is evident jthat the changes which take place are similar to those which ire Seen in Gmelin 's reaction , that at the penultimate stage choletelin jis formed , and that even at the last stage this is also further oxidised , !
as proved by the complete disappearance of the hand at F. If chole-jtelin be a fully oxidised bile pigment and febrile urobilin a less oxidised \#166 ; bile pigment we should be able to reduce choletelin hack to febrile [ urobilin by the action of reducing agents .
Accordingly , I proceeded j to isolate the pigment of the yellow stage , having first filtered the j chloroformic solution .
It was then evaporated on the water-bath .
( The residue was a light yellowish-brown pigment , perfectly soluble in I alcohol with a yellow colour .
I could not see a band at F , for the pigment had been oxidised beyond the stage at which it gives this band .
When a piece of sodium amalgam was introduced into the alcoholic solution the latter immediately became of a reddish colour .
After it had acted for a short time the fluid was found to have the power of absorbing the violet end of the spectrum .
When hydrochloric acid was added to the solution before the action of sodium amalgam no change took place , but when it was added to the red fluid after the action of the amalgam , it gave a black band , a , wave-length 506 to 481 , sp. 11 , Chart II .
And when caustic soda was added until an alkaline reaction was developed a band , f\gt ; , appeared from wave-length 513 to wave-length 488 .
After the action of the amalgam had gone on for twenty-four hours the colour of the fluid was light yellow , and hydrochloric acid then produced a reddish fluid giving a band of intensity , a , from wave-length 502 to wave-length 478 .
But this pigment had gone just beyond the stage of choletelin , so that it became necessary to prepare that pigment .
I thought that by preparing it by another method I should have additional evidence of the truth of the idea that it can be made to yield febrile urobilin by reduction , if the result should turn out favourably .
Preparation of Choletelin from pure ... and its Conversion into Febrile Urobilin.\#151 ; Some pure bilirubin , prepared as before , which gave only general absorption in the deepest and thinnest layers when dissolved in chloroform , was treated with a little caustic soda in a chloroformic solution and exposed to the air in an evaporating dish .
After the lapse of twenty-four hours the residue was found to be sap218 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 green in colour , and it was then dissolved in alcohol .
The solution was then filtered so as to catch any unchanged bilirubin .
The filtrate wa\amp ; then seen to be a brilliant sap-green colour and gave only genera ] absorption of the spectrum .
It was now treated with strong nitric acid , and examined with the spectroscope .
When the bands on each side of D had completely disappeared , leaving one at F of intensity fl .or 7 from wave-length 507 to 482 , the solution was shaken with chloroform in a separating funnel , and the reddish-yellow chloroform layer was separated off , and filtered .
After evaporation of the chloroform , a brownish-yellow , or yellowish-brown amorphous pigment was left , soluble in the same solvents as normal urobilin .
This pigment , when dissolved in alcohol , gave a yellow solution , and when looked at in a white dish , it had a slightly reddish tinge at the edge , where it touched the white surface of the dish , this being better marked in a \#166 ; chloroformic solution .
The alcoholic solution gave a band of intensity A from wave-length 510 to 482 , having ill-defined edges .
When the fluid was treated with caustic soda , it became of an orange colour , and then general absorption of the violet end of the spectrum was noticed .
In a moderately deep layer , the dark shading commenced at wave-length 510 .
Ho band could be seen in a thinner layer .
When .caustic soda was added after the addition of zinc chloride , the reddish .colour produced by the zinc chloride became yellow , and I then perceived a feeble band from wave-length 516 to 488 , but it was difficult to take the reading of this band .
Sodium amalgam produced exactly the same effect that it produced with the pigment got by the action of chlorine , and the description given before will apply word for word to the present pigment .
Action of Ozone on Pure Bilirubin.\#151 ; Fearing that nitric acid might not have produced the pigment by oxidation , I planned an experiment by which ozone was made to act on bilirubin dissolved in chloroform .
A Siemens induction tube* was made by taking two test-tubes , one larger than the other ; the inner surface of the small tube was .coated with tin-foil , and the outer surface of the larger one .
They were kept from touching each other by four small points of sealing-wax when one was placed within the other .
All the space between the tubes was closed , except a hole at either end of the larger tube , into which a small glass tube was fastened .
So that I had two concentric tubes , coated , the inner one on the inside and the outer one on the outside , with tin-foil , and containing a space between them through which oxygen could be passed .
The coatings were respectively connected with the terminals of a Ruhmkorff 's induction coil , worked by a .quart bichromate cell .
When oxygen was then passed into one end of the space between the tubes , it came out ozonised through the small * " Bloxam 's Chemistry , " 4th ed. ( 1880 ) , p. 53 .
880 ] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
219 \#166 ; ieiiverv tube at the other end .
The latter was allowed to dip almost 0 the bottom of a test-tube containing a chloroformic solution of pure filirubin .
The oxygen was purified by being passed through strong sulphuric acid before entering the induction tube .
After the ozone W been passed into the solution for fifteen minutes , it got slightly Leader in colour , and it then gave a band covering D ; no other band IL ghallow layer .
The general absorption of the violet disappeared Gradually , and a band 8 became detached at F , the colour of the solution becoming lighter at the same time .
After longer action , the colour became still lighter , and the band still remained .
As no other change took place , the action of the ozone was discontinued .
The band at F 8read from wave-length 513 to 482 , and when hydrochloric acid was added , it got darker , and gave the same reading , the colour of the fluid becoming red .
But when caustic soda was added , the band read 507 to 480 , and did not disappear .
The pigment formed was therefore not choletelin , for its band should have disappeared with caustic soda , and if it had been febrile urobilin , it should have been displaced towards the red , instead of which it came nearer the violet .
But although the pigment produced by the action of ozone on bilirubin was neither ( apparently ) choletelin nor febrile urobilin , yot its action w as somewhat similar to other oxidising agents , in causing disappearance of the general absorption and the formation of a pigment giving a band at F. Action of other Oxidising Agents on Bilirubin , 8fc.\#151 ; The action of permanganate of potassium and peroxide of hydrogen on bilirubin is not easily studied , from the difficulty experienced in getting them to act on bilirubin ; for in chloroformic solution they will not do so , and when made to act on solid bilirubin , their action is confined to the surface , but on the whole , their tendency is to convert this pigment into choletelin .
Peroxide of hydrogen , when added to bilirubin undergoing oxidation , seems to advance the oxidation a stage , and then stops short .
Although it acts with difficulty on bilirubin , there are other biliary pigments , such as those got in the alcoholic extract of human bile pigments , with which peroxide of hydrogen gives a play of colours , accompanied by the same alteration of spectrum which accompanies Gimelin 's reaction ; but this will be referred to again .
Action of Sodium Amalgam on Pure \#151 ; Bilirubin was suspended in water , and a piece of sodium amalgam introduced .
After a few minutes a little of the fluid was taken and treated with hydrochloric acid , which caused the formation of brownish flakes ; these were soluble in alcohol , forming a yellow fluid giving only general absorption .
At the end of an hour , the fluid was brownish in colour , but lighter than it was at the end of half-an-hour .
After nine and a * " Ann. Ch. Pharm.clxi , 368 ; clxiii , 77 , contain an account of Maly 's experiments on this subject .
220 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 half hours it was yellow in colour , and minute particles of a brownish substance were seen suspended in it .
This yellow fluid gave a band h from wave-length 513 to 488 .
It was then treated with hydrochloric acid , until acid in reaction , when it became reddish-brown .
It was then filtered as brownish particles became separated by the action of the hydrochloric acid .
The filtrate was a beautiful red colour , and gave a black band , \#187 ; , 507 to 480 ; another reading in a thinner layer gave wave-length 501 to 482 .
When caustic soda was added to alkalinity another band , intensity S , appeared from-wave-length 513 to 486 , the solution at the same time getting yellow in colour .
The insoluble portions in the filter were a dirty green-brown colour , and gave , when dissolved in alcohol , an olive-coloured solution .
In deep layers of this alcoholic solution there were seen two bands near D , the darker before D , the lighter on its violet side , and in shallow layers a dark band , \#171 ; , was seen at F. ( See Chart II , sp. 12 and 13 .
) Treated with caustic soda sp. 14 appeared .
I may here mention that these same bands appear when the alcoholic extract of human bile-pigment is treated with caustic soda , and in gall-stones ( as before referred to ) , sp. 3 .
It would therefore appear , that in addition to a body more closely resembling febrile urobilin , which the fluid contained , an insoluble body was separated which appears to be identical with that kind of urobilin which occurs in bile and in gall-stones .
Action of Caustic Soda and Hydrochloric Addon Bilirubin.\#151 ; As there is reason to believe that caustic soda alone changes bilirubin , and that hydrochloric acid oxidises it , I thought it would be interesting to compare the action of these reagents with that of the sodium amalgam .
And in order to compare the action of the caustic soda , under the same circumstances as those which may be supposed to occur when sodium amalgam is used , I used a solid piece of pure caustic soda .
When a solid piece of caustic soda is thrown into water in which bilirubin is suspended , the fluid becomes orange , showing where it touches the dish a reddish tinge .
( After five minutes ' action if a little of the fluid be taken out and treated with hydrochloric acid it becomes green in colour .
) At the end of twenty minutes the fluid becomes green .
If another piece of solid caustic soda be now put in and the fluid examined twenty-three hours after the commencement of the experiment , it is found to be a pale yellow-green colour , showing only general absorption of the violet end of the spectrum .
When hydrochloric acid is added it turns red , quickly changing to brown , and giving before the spectroscope a black band , \lt ; * , wave-length 507 to 482 , and a feeble one , B , 625 to 598 .
When this brown fluid is treated with caustic soda a shading appears over the violet end beginning at 516 .
It would therefore appear that the action of the caustic soda and subsequently hydrochloric acid is to oxidise the pigment just beyond the stage of febrile urobilin , and 3880 .
] Colouring-matters of Hitman Urine .
221 that it is premature to assume that urobilin is formed from bilirubin by reduction .
It would further appear from this experiment , and from a careful study of Gmelin 's reaction , that febrile urobilin represents an intermediate stage of oxidation of bile pigment .
; Identity of Choletelin and Normal Urobilin.\#151 ; It will be seen on com-f paring choletelin with normal urobilin that they cannot be distinguished from each other , being similar in colour , solubility , in spectrum , and in the changes which their respective spectra undergo with reagents .
But while choletelin is easily reduced back to febrile urobilin , normal urobilin is not easily reduced , because the chemical stability of the latter pigment is greater than that of the former .
On the presence of a body having similar spectroscopic characters to | those of Febrile Urobilin in File.\#151 ; W hen human bile is treated with absolute alcohol to precipitate the mucus , \amp ; c. , and shaken with chloroform , the latter takes up a good deal of colouring matter , but as a general rule , gives only general absorption of the spectrum .
From this fact I had come to the conclusion that the solution could not have Fontained urobilin , forgetting that the band of that pigment may be invisible when the pigment has been removed from a neutral or slightly alkaline fluid .
The following experiments conclusively prove that a body is present in bile which gives the same spectroscopic characters as the body produced by the action of sodium amalgam on bilirubin ; and its presence can be proved , not only in the bile of man , but in that of the pig , ox , sheep , and probably in that of all animals possessing a gall-bladder .
: Urobilin in Human Bile.\#151 ; Here I shall principally refer to urobilin , leaving an account of the discovery of haematin in bile , until after the production of the urinary pigments from hsematin has been discussed .
I have repeated the following experiments several times but select one experiment as an illustration of the method adopted for the demonstration of the presence of urobilin .
The bile was pro-cured from a case twelve hours after death ; the gall-ducts and liver ot the subject were free from disease .
The bile was treated with absolute alcohol , filtered and shaken with chloroform , the latter separated off after having been allowed to stand some time , and ltered This solution was orange in colour and gave no band at F. A feeble band could be seen in deep layers covering D , the violet end , .^.sPec^rum being shaded by the general absorption characteristic ?
b.ubm- The chloroform was distilled off over the water-bath , a ^mb'ge^ell0W residue , which was extracted with alcohol , which was then filtered , leaving a green-yellow stain on the filtering paper .
The residue left after the extraction by the alcohol was an orange powder consisting of almost pure bilirubin .
he alcoholic solution was dark red when examined by transmitted gaslight , and a duller red with transmitted daylight , and with the B 222 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 latter it was seen to be yellow with a greenish tinge in very thin , strata .
In deep layers it gave a band covering D , but in shallow-layers one at F. ( Chart II , sp. 15 .
) Treated with caustic soda it gave sp. 14 , * Chart II , the colour of the fluid becoming light green , yellow .
This is the same spectrum as " that got by the action of caustic soda on bilirubin treated by sodium amalgam .
It will be noticed that the band at F becomes replaced under the action of caustic soda , by another of less intensity of shading and nearer the red end of the spectrum .
Zinc chloride produced a precipitate soluble in alcohol forming a green solution , and then the band at F was seen to be narrowed , and nearer the red ; it produced a spectrum in other particulars like that got by the action of caustic soda .
Chart II , sp. 16 .
Hydrochloric acid produced a turbidity , changing the fluid to dark red , which became clear brown-red with more alcohol ; this solution gave sp. 17 in deep layer , while in shallower layer sp. 18 appeared .
Sulphuric acid produced a dark-red fluid , giving almost the same spectrum .
From these observations it was quite evident that the same kind of urobilin was present as that got by the action of sodium amalgam on bilirubin .
Urobilin was absent from the bile in a case of thrombosis of the portal vein , and this observation supports the view that it is formed in the intestine .
Urobilin in the Bile of the Pig.\#151 ; This bile was golden-yellow , and was treated as in the case of human bile .
The chloroformic solution was yellow , and left a chrome-yellow residue , which was entirely soluble in rectified spirit , forming a yellow solution .
This gave , in deep layers , general absorption , and in thin strata a band from wave-length 507 to-482 .
Zinc chloride produced a precipitate soluble in alcohol , and an abrupt shading commencing at wave-length 510 .
But in a thinner layer a band was seen detached in the usual position , but owing to the general absorption its violet edge was indistinct .
When the alcoholic solution was treated with acetic acid a band , a , from wave-length 507 to 478 was visible , the colour of the solution being greenish-yellow .
The alcoholic solution treated with caustic soda got pale yellow , and gave the usual band from wave-length 512 to 488 .
This observation afforded positive proof of the presence of urobilin in the bile of the pig .
Urobilin in Ox-bile.\#151 ; This bile was brown in deep , but yellow in shallow strata .
It gave sp. 2 , Chart III , which is of great interest , as a similar spectrum can be produced artificially from hcematin , to which I * This map is made to represent two spectra , as both were exactly similar ( see explanation of Chart II ) .
11880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
Chart III .
224 Dr. C. A. M\amp ; cMunn .
the [ Doc shall again refer .
Every possible precaution was taken to exclude the presence of blood .
When treated as in former cases , the chloroformic -solution was golden-yellow , and gave sp. 3 , Chart III .
When the chloroform was evaporated , it left a yellow-brown amorphous residue which was partially soluble in alcohol , forming an orange solution* This gave in a thin stratum sp. 4 , Chart III .
When this fluid was treated with caustic soda it became light yellow-green , and then gave sp. ,5 in a thin layer.# Chloride of zinc made the alcoholic solution orange-red , giving in deep layer sp. 6 , and in shallow sp. 7 .
When this fluid , already treated by zinc chloride , was treated with hydrochloric acid , sp. 8 Chart III , was seen , the colour being light red .
Ammonia acted in the same manner as caustic soda , except that the band at E could no longer be seen .
Urobilin was , therefore , present in this case .
Urobilin in Sheep-bile.\#151 ; Its presence can here be demonstrated in the same manner , but as all the spectra are almost identical with those of ox-bile , I will not describe them .
The band at F is affected in all these solutions of human , pig , ox , and sheep bile in exactly the same manner by reagents as in the case of febrile urobilin , but , by the action of ammonia and caustic soda , certain bands in red and orange appear , which , although they are present in urobilin prepared by sodium amalgam from bilirubin , are not always seen in the pigment got from urine .
Again , it would appear from numerous observations that , while the biliary pigment is Oxidised with comparative ease into choletelin , the urinary pigment requires much stronger oxidising agents to bring about that result .
On the Artificial Production of a Pigment exactly similar to hcematin ( excreted in the Urine of Rheumatism ' ) from Acid UoemoMn.\#151 ; Hoppe-Seyler , " f to whom physiological chemists owe so much , was the first who tried the action of tin and hydrochloric acid on haematin .
He got a pigment which showed such striking resemblance to Maly 's hydrobilirubin that he came to the conclusion that the artificially prepared pigment was the same as Maly 's pigment , but he noticed that the pigment prepared from haematin gave a band before D and one between D and E , as well as a.at F. .
By the action of zinc and splphuric acid on acid haematin or haematoin , as it has been named by Professor Preyer , I have succeeded in obtaining a pigment which , when dissolved in various solvents , is found to be exactly similar to the pigment which .
I isolated from the urine of a case of rheumatism , and which I have taken the liberty of calling urohaematin .
It shows * Cf .
Chart II , sp. 3 , 14 , and 16 , \amp ; c. \#166 ; f " Handbuch der Physiologischen- und Pathologischen- Chemischen Analyse , " 4th ed. , p. 214 , et seq : , and " Spectroscope in Medicine , " p. 116 .
1880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
a most remarkable series of bands , in addition to that at F. The experiment has been repeated several times , with an uniform result .
The fresh defibrinated blood of the sheep is treated with alcohol and sulphuric acid ( 2 parts H2S04 to 35 alcohol ) and filtered , more alcohol being afterwards added ( if necessary ) to help the filtration .
This dark-I re(j filtrate gives the spectrum of acid haematin , which is seen in sp. 9 , I Chart III , and which gives the bands of liaemochromogen ( reduced 1 haematin ) with sulphide of ammonium .
It is put into a narrow and deep beaker , some fragments of pure zinc and sulphuric acid being added in sufficient quantity to develop a reaction , and a gentle heat is applied to the water-bath over which the beaker is placed .
When the action has ceased the fluid is filtered , when it is seen to have become of a much lighter colour .
( Sp. 10.* ) It is then put into a separating funnel , diluted with water , and shaken with chloroform .
The chloroform takes up the pigment , forming a dark-red solution ; on separating this off and filtering it , and then distilling the chloroform , a dark-brown pigment is left .
It is soluble in alcohol , with a rich colour , and this gives sp. 11 , Chart III , in a moderately shallow layer .
( Compare 7 and 8 , Chart I. ) Ammonia slightly alters the position of the bands , when added to the alcoholic solution , bringing some of them slightly nearer the red end ; narrowing and bringing the band at F near the red , but not causing it to disappear .
Caustic soda produces the same effect as ammonia , sp. 12 , Chart III ( colour of solution , orange ) .
Zinc chloride produces almost the same change , sp. 13 , Chart III .
( Cf .
action on urobilin .
) The chloroformic solution of this pigment gives sp. 14 , Chart III .
On comparing these spectra with those of the urinary pigment , urohaematin , it is seen that they are identical band for band , and the description of the reactions with other reagents given by that pigment will apply exactly to this one .
On looking at Preyer'si* map of " iron-free haematin " a likeness to the present pigment is noticed , but they are different bodies , and the action of sulphuric acid aided by heat had nothing to do with the result ; for we can not only prove that a different pigment is produced under those circumstances , but urohaematin can be prepared in a different manner , in which the influence of sulphuric acid aided by heat is completely excluded .
If the solution of haematoin be prepared as before , and it is then shaken with chloroform and water in a separating funnel , the chloroform will take up the haematoin , for which I find it is a perfect solvent , and again leave it , after it has been distilled off , in a neutral state .
* Cf .
action of sulphuric acid on the natural pigment , Chart 1,12 .
It is probably these bands that Hoppe-Seyler mentions .
t " Die Blutkrystalle , " Tafel I , 15 .
226 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 If this haematoin is then dissolved in alcohol and diluted with water , the solution put into a narrow and deep beaker ( or bette* in a flask ) , a piece of sodium amalgam added , and the whole gently heated on the water-bath , a change will be found to have taken place after some time .
The colour gets much lighter , becoming at last yellow , and it then gives sp. 12 , Chart III ; this is seen to be the spectrum of urohaamatin prepared by the former method and treated in alcoholic solution with caustic soda .
The fluid may then be filtered , the filtrate treated with sulphuric acid to acidity , when its yellow colour changes to orange-red .
It is then ( after acidification ) filtered , put into a separating funnel and shaken with chloroform ; this chloroformic solution is reddish and gives sp. 14 Chart III.* When the chloroform is distilled off a dark-brown pigment is left , which alcohol dissolves , forming a red fluid giving sp. 11 , .Chart III .
Treated with caustic soda it gets orange less red ) and gives sp. 12 , Chart III .
Ammonia produced the same effect , and its behaviour with other reagents shows that this is the same pigment as that obtained by the action of zinc and sulphuric acid on haematoin .
It is , therefore , certain that by the action of reducing agents on baematoin a pigment can be prepared , identical with a pigment which can be obtained from urine in certain diseased conditions , and the name urohaematin best expresses the origin of that pigment .
Artificial production of a Pigment from Acid by , indistinguishable from Gholetelin and from Normal TJrobilin.\#151 ; The identity of choletelin and urobilin of health has already been proved in this paper .
I have now to describe a method by means of which a pigment , which cannot be distinguished from either , can be procured from acid haematin ( haematoin ) .
So far as I know , this experiment has never been described .
A solution of acid haematin having been prepared as before , it is treated with peroxide of hydrogen until it changes colour .
The red colour first seems to get slightly darker , but it soon changes to brown-yellow ; and then a curious change is seen to have taken place in the spectrum .
All the bands of acid haematin have gone , and instead , a band / 3 , or 7 , is seen between green and blue ( sp. 15 , Chart III ) , wavelength 507 to 484 .
This change can be produced by treating the haematoin in the original acid solution , or when separated in the neutral state by means of chloroform , with the peroxide ; but if the latter method be adopted we must slightly acidulate again before the pigment can be isolated .
The former method is , of course , the easier .
If this solution of peroxidised acid haematin be put into a funnel and shaken with chloroform , the latter becomes reddish-yellow , and when separated and * Under certain unknown conditions another feeble band in red may be noticed .
11.880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
evaporated off , it leaves a brown-yellow amorphous pigment .
It is * soluble in the same solvents as choletelin and normal urobilin .
The chloroformic solution appears yellow on a white dish , giving a reddish tint where the fluid touches the white dish , and it gives a band , or 7 , from wave-length 510 to wave-length 484 , with ill-defined edges .
Alcohol* dissolved the pigment , forming a yellow solution giving a band , 7 , from wave-length 507 to 482 .
When this yellow fluid was treated with caustic soda it became orange , and gave , in deep layers , general absorption of the violet up to wave-length 534 .
In shallow layers no band was visible ; Zinc chloride caused the fluid to assume an orange colour , and then the spectrum was shaded up to wave-length 538 .
In a thinner layer a band became detached ( though this was not easily seen ) from about wave-length 526 to 501 ( ?
) .
When the fluid treated by zinc chloride was treated with caustic soda , the orange-coloured fluid became yellow , and a feeble shadow from wave-length 513 to 488 was just visible .
Re-acidified after treatment with caustic soda a black band came back in the original position .
The above characters are sufficient to establish the identity of this pigment with normal urobilin and with choletelin ; but its action with sodium amalgam completely proved the truth of this supposition .
Artificial Production of Febrile Urobilin from the Pigment 'produced by Oxidation of Hcematoin.\#151 ; When this brown-yellow pigment is dissolved in alcohol , it gives a yellow solution ; when it is diluted with water and sodium amalgam introduced the colour soon becomes orange .
After longer action , especially when a gentle heat is applied , the fluid again becomes paler , until at last it assumes that of pale sherry .
{ See sp. 16 , Chart III .
) When sulphuric acid is added to acidity , the fluid becomes orange-red , and then three bands are visible , one before D , one between D and E , and a black one at F , sp. 17 .
But if instead of using strong sulphuric acid , it is added in the proportion of two parts acid to twelve alcohol , and the fluid is then .shaken with chloroform , the latter takes up the pigment forming a red solution , which appears yellow in thin layers .
On evaporating the chloroform , a reddish-brown pigment is left .
This dissolves in alcohol with a red colour , and gives in deep layers no bands near D , but in shallower ones a black band at F. It will , therefore , be seen that strong sulphuric acid has the property of so changing the chromogen of the reduced pigment , as to produce two bands near D , as well as that at F. I believe that-this may account for the presence .of certain feeble bands near D , seen in solutions of febrile urobilin .
{ See " Proc. Roy .
Soc , " vol. 31 , p. 26 .
) If to the alcoholic solution of the pigment of a red colour , and * Ordinary rectified spirit .
228 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 1\lt ; JS giving the black band at F , caustic soda be added , it becomes yellow in colour , and then gives a band , 8 , from wave-length 513 to 488 .
Itt deep layers two other feeble bands are seen on the violet side of D ( Chart III , sp. 16* ) .
When the alcoholic solution is treated with zinc chloride and allowed to stand a few minutes , a narrow band is seen which is exactly the same band , as regards position and shading , as " that seen when solutions of febrile urobilin are treated with zinc* chloride .
It would , therefore , appear that by the action of sodium amalgam aided by heat , a colourless , or almost colourless , solution has been obtained , which under the influence of sulphuric acid becomes orange-red , and gives all the characters of febrile urobilin .
The original body acted upon with the sodium amalgam being identical with choletelin and with normal urobilin .
On the Action of Decolorised Bile on Scemoglobin.\#151 ; Seeing that the urinary pigments , at least such as are recognisable by means of the spectroscope , can be produced with great ease from hsematin , I was led to think that perhaps haematin might be present in the bile , and as a preliminary step to this inquiry I tried the effect of the colourless constituents of the bile on haemoglobin .
Ox-bile was treated with rectified spirit , filtered , then well shaken with animal charcoal in a flask , and again filtered ; as this filtrate showed some general absorption ) of the violet , it was again decolorised .
It was then evaporated almost to dryness on the water-bath , and diluted with water ; the taste of the ' solution was exceedingly bitter ; it was alkaline , and gave Pettenkofer 's reaction and its spectrum .
To this fluid 3 cub. centims. of the fresh defibrinated blood of a cat were added .
The mixture was put into a hot air-bath , and the bath heated to 110 ' F ; the mixture being stirred with a glass rod from time to time .
It soon got darker in colour , and then gave the spectrum of methaemoglobin .
The temperature of the bath was then raised to 180 ' , and the fluid got still darker in colour .
After longer action it became a fine crimson , and then gave a band covering D , and one at F , sp. 18 , Chart III .
After longer action no further change took place .
The same body can be produced by the action of caustic soda in alcohol on haemoglobin .
Action of Caustic Soda in Alcohol on Blood.\#151 ; When fresh blood ( defibrinated ) is treated with alcohol and caustic soda , the colour changes to dark red .
If the blood so treated contain oxidised haemoglobin , we get a band at D , and a feebler One at F ; but if it contain reduced haemoglobin , and the reagent is added with exclusion of air , haemochromogen is formed at the same time .
The spectrum got by the action of the reagent on oxidised haemoglobin is evidently haematin , # Another ( doubtful ) band may have been present in red , its centre at wave-length 625 if so , the reduced pigment was passing by reduction into urohsematin , with which three of its bands are coincident .
Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
229* 880 .
] is it gives the bands of hasmochromogen .with sulphide of ammonia .
A similar pigment may be obtained by isolating hsematoin as described before , and treating the residue with alcohol and caustic soda , when he same spectrum is seen ; but while the pigment obtained directly 'rom oxidised haemoglobin is easily reduced to haemochromogen , the latter pigment is reduced with great difficulty .
This alkaline haematin , whose spectrum is represented in Chart III , lip .
19 , * is easily converted into acid haematin again , and thus may be the source of all those kinds of haematin from which the biliary and urinary pigments can be formed .
\lt ; Production of the Spectrum of Sheep-bile from this Pigment.\#151 ; While by the influence of oxidising agents such as peroxide of hydrogen and permanganate of potassium , this body yields apparently the same pigment as haematoin yields , it gives with sodium amalgam in the cold , and with brief action the spectrum of sheep or ox bile , sp. 20 , t Chart III .
It wants , however , one band in the red , but that also can be made to appear by gentle oxidation with peroxide of hydrogen , and this band in bile only appears after that fluid has been exposed to the-air for some time .
( Cf .
Chart IV , sp. 2 , and Chart III , sp. 2 .
) When this reduced brownish-red solution was treated with hydrochloric acid , it gave a spectrum very like that got by treating the bile pigments of the sheep with the same reagent ; J but in order to compare the action of reagents on the respective fluids , it will be necessary ta isolate the pigment giving this spectrum from sheep-bile , which has not yet been done .
When the solution giving the above spectrum is treated with sulphide of ammonium the bands of hsemochromogen appeared .
Consequently , if sheep-bile contains this kind of hsematin , it should also yield the bands of that substance with sulphide of ammonium .
Hcematin in the Pile of the Sheep.\#151 ; Perfectly fresh bile , which did not contain blood , and which gave sp. 2 , Chart IV , had a few drops of acetic acid added to it , but as this was not sufficient to precipitate the mucus when added in such small quantity , alcohol also was added. .
The fluid , after filtration , was shaken with chloroform and water .
The chloroformic solution , after separation and filtering , had a brown colour , with a slightly greenish tinge , giving sp. 3 , Chart IV .
The chloroform was evaporated off , leaving an olive-brown residue .
This , dissolved in alcohol , formed a green-brown solution , giving sp , 4r Chart IV .
When sulphide of ammonium was added to this fluid , the * The difference in position of band near D in 19 and 20 is accounted for when we remember that in one case we are dealing with an alcoholic , and in the other with a syrupy aqueous solution .
T The bands are not coincident with those of 2 , because in one case bile , and in the other alcohol , is the solvent for the pigment .
( See 2 , 3 , and 7 , Chart IV .
) t " Spectroscope in Medicine , " Chart II , sp. 9 .
Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 1$ j bands of hsemochromogen appeared , Chart IY , sp. 5 and sp. 6 .
\lt ; l||J experiment has now been repeated several times , and I believe that the ' conclusion may be accepted , that sheep-bile contains hsematin , aid similar to that which can be obtained artificially in the manner already -described.* S. Chart IV .
Hcematin in Human Bile.\#151 ; The golden-yellow coloured bile obtained twelve hours after death , from a case of meningitis , and which gave only general Absorption , even in thin strata , was treated with a little acetic acid , diluted with water , and shaken with chloroform .
The * The band covering D is not , of course , due to hsemochromogen , but probably to \#166 ; \amp ; bile pigment , as referred to before .
1880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
residue had a slightly green tinge , and after extraction with alcohol , the alcoholic solution was seen to be a brownish-green colour , and gave the spectrum already described ( sp. 7 ) .
When this solution was treated with sulphide of ammonium , sp. 8 , Chart IV , appeared after it |iad stood a short time ( the original is seen in sp. 7 ) , the colour of the \#174 ; uid changing to red .
Ammonia had nothing to do with this result , fit therefore appears certain that human bile also contains haematin , but in less quantity than the bile of the sheep.* If the curious series of bands seen in sheep-bile are due to the presence of haematin , it is probable that the bands seen in the red , orange , iand green parts of the spectrum characteristic of the spectra of the bile of other animals , are also due to its presence .
In the bile of the crow these bands are like those of the bile of the sheep and ox ; in that of the guinea-pig the single band may be due to the darker band of haerao-chromogen ; those of the rabbit appear to be the bands of that substance , and I have no doubt that the presence of haematin in the bile of these animalsf will be proved as easily as in the case of man and \#166 ; the sheep .
Of course I do not include the band at F , as that is always [ due to the presence of urobilin .
Action of Peroxide of Hydrogen on the Alcoholic Extract of Human f Bile Pigments.\#151 ; When the brown-green alcoholic extract of the chloro-j formic residue of human bile pigment ( see sp. 7 , Chart IV ) , and which was proved to contain haematin ; urobilin ( of biliary origin ) , and other I pigments , was treated by peroxide of hydrogen on a white dish , the \#166 ; colour changed from brown-green to dark-green , blue-green , blue , !
violet , red , red-brown , and brown-yellow .
At the violet stage three bands were visible , sp. 9 , Chart IV ; J at the brown-yellow stage only one , that at F , sp. 10 .
It was , therefore , evident that the mixture of pigments could be oxidised into choletelin with great ease .
The Absorption Sand of Serum.\#151 ; The band at F in blood-serum has been said to be due to lutein ; S whether that substance is or is not present , there is evidence to show that an oxidised bile pigment is that which gives the band , and I have come to the conclusion , from a i careful examination of fresh blood-serum , obtained by letting the blood of the sheep clot spontaneously , and filtering the yellow serum , that it contains either choletelin or a substance like it .
The serum gave sp. 11 , Chart IV , which shows that it still contained traces of haemoglobin .
The band at F \lt ; y read from wave-length 504 to 480 , it was therefore nearer the red than the band of lutein , and I could * As proved by the presence of first band of reduced haematin , the second being just visible and overlapped by general absorption .
( See 8 , Chart IV .
) t See Chart II , " Spectroscope in Medicine .
" $ That at IT will be represented by next spectrum , 10 .
S Maly believed he had detected urobilin in blood , but Hoppe-Seyler thought he had mistaken lutein for it .
See " Hand , der Phys. und .
Path .
Chem. Anal. , " loc. 232 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. K ; not , by any method , see the second band of lutein in violet .
Moreover , caustic soda and ammonia which intensify the baud of lutein caused this hand to disappear ; and when zinc chloride in very small quantity was added after the caustic soda a precipitate fell , but when this was separated from the fluid , I thought I c.ould perceive a faint band from wave-length 516 to 488 .
If the white of egg is compared with this , as I find that it contains some of the lutein of the yelk , we see two bands distinctly , and that nearer the red is decidedly darkened by both caustic soda and by ammonia ; moreover the first lutein band of the yelk in alcohol read from wave-length 496 to 478 .
( Lutein itself , even if present , may also be formed in the liver , as I have found it in gall-stones ( vide anted ) , and a pigment giving its spectrum appears to be formed by the long-continued action of caustic soda on the alcoholic extract of the pigments of sheep bile , sp. 4 .
Thus , the first action was to give sp. 12 , Chart IV , but after half-an-hour sp. IS appeared , the other bands having faded away .
) I therefore conclude that the absorption-band of serum is due to a body which is produced by the oxidation of the bile pigments , and which is on its way to be excreted by the kidneys.* Summary and Conclusions .
( 1 .
) That normal human urine contains a body as such , which is apparently identical with choletelin and with the body produced by the action of peroxide of hydrogen on acid haematin .
( 2 .
) That normal human urine contains the chromogen of febrile urobilin , which can be prepared artificially by reduction of choletelin , and of the body produced by oxidation from hasmatoin .
( 3 .
) That human , ox , sheep , and pig bile contain a kind of urobilin , which differs in some respects from that excreted in urine , and that they also contain haematin .
( 4 .
) That it is highly probable that all the constituents of bile colouring matter are produced from haematin by reduction .
( 5 .
) That the haematin present in bile is probably due to the action of the bile acids on haemoglobin .
( 6 .
) That all the colouring matters of bile , including haematin , urobilin of biliary origin , bilirubin , \amp ; c. , are oxidised into choletelin , and that there is evidence to show that blood-serum contains this body , which is on its way to be excreted by the kidneys .
( 7 .
) That the absorption-bands seen in the bile of various animals are due to the presence of haematin and urobilin of biliary origin .
( 8 .
) That a pigment excreted in the urine in certain pathological conditions is derived from haematin by reduction , as it can be obtained by reducing acid haematin with zinc and sulphuric acid , and also by * Neubauer and Vogel ( " Guide to Analysis of Urine , " American edition , 1879 , p. 64 ) think this band is due to urobilin .
880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
aeans of sodium amalgam ; that it is not febrile urobilin , and as it is lerived directly from hsematin it is best named urohaematin .
( 9 .
) That the urobilin of bile is produced in the intestine , j ( 10 .
) That the urobilin of bile may , in certain states of the system , appear in the urine , but that under normal conditions it is oxidised 'nto choletelin in common with the other biliary pigments , and comes , o the kidneys as choletelin , while a part may pass into the urine as auch , but a part becomes reduced in the kidneys into the chromogen of 'ebrile , and perhaps also into the chromogen of normal urobilin ; the former by strong oxidising agents passing into febrile urobilin , and the latter by the action of weaker oxidising agents into normal urobilin .
( 11 .
) That many of the colouring matters of urine have been produced , by the action of the reagents designed to separate them , on these chromogens .
( 12 .
) While most of the urinary pigments are traceable back to the bile pigments , * there is evidence to show that some of them are derived from haematin directly , and pigments derived from that source may entirely replace the normal pigments .
A diagram will clearly explain the connexion , which appears from this research to exist between all these pigments:\#151 ; Haemoglobin .
Bilirubin .
Alkaline Haematin .
Acid Haematin .
Pigment of sheep bile .
Choletelin .
Choletelin .
Choletelin .
Choletelin or normal Urobilin .
Urohaematin .
Chromogen of febrile Urobilin .
Chromogen of normal Urobilin .
Normal Urobilin .
* Bilirubin , biliverdin , \amp ; c. Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
Researches into the [ Dec. 16 There appears to be one point of difference between normal nrobilii and choletelin and the pigment obtained from hsematoin : that fe* that while chloride of sine prodnces a narrow band nearer the red with an alcoholic solution of normal urobilin , it does not produce that band with the latter pigments until they have been slightly reduced with sodium amalgam ; this would show that some change ( reduction ) has taken place in the normal urinary pigment during its passage from the blood into the urine .
EXPLANATION OF CHARTS .
The accompanying charts were mapped from the microspectroscope provided with an accurately divided photographed scale , and the scale at the top of each chart is that of the instrument .
Accompanying these charts is a table giving the value of each division of the scale in wave-lengths .
I have adopted this plan in order toj avoid having two scales adapted to the charts ; and a scale of wave-lengths would ^ not be accurate adapted to maps drawn this size .
Chart I. Spectrum 1 .
Solar spectrum .
" 2 .
Normal urobilin in alcohol .
" 3 .
The same treated with chloride of zinc .
, , 4 .
Action of sodium amalgam on brown-yellow normal urobilin , and of caustic soda on brown urobilin .
, , 5 .
Acidulated alcoholic extract of urohsematin from urine of rheumatism j deep layer .
" 6 .
Chloroformic solution of the same pigment .
, , 7 .
Alcoholic solution of ditto .
, , 8 .
Shallow depth of the same .
, , 9 .
Deep layer of alcoholic solution ( 7 ) treated with caustic soda or ammonia .
" 10 .
The same , shallow depth .
, , 11 .
Urohsematin in alcohol , treated with hydrochloric acid .
, " 12 .
The same treated with sulphuric acid .
" 13 .
The same with sodium amalgam .
, , 14 .
The pigment ( acted on by amalgam ) with hydrochloric acid .
, , 15 .
Acidulated alcohol extract of pigment got from the urine of a case of pleurisy ; deep layer .
" 16 .
Ditto , shallow layer .
" 17 and 18 .
The alcoholic solution of this pigment treated with caustic soda , in deep and shallow layers .
Chart II .
Spectrum 1 .
Solar spectrum .
" 2 .
Alcoholic extract human gall-stone .
" 3 .
The same treated with caustic soda or ammonia .
" 4 .
Chloroformic solution of bilirubin .
, , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 .
Action of chlorine on this solution .
, 11 .
The pigment of stage represented in sp. 10 treated with sodium amalgam and afterwards hydrochloric acid .
[ 880 .
] Colouring-matters of Human Urine .
I truml2 .
Pigment got by action of sodium amalgam on bilirubin dissolved in alcohol , and precipitated by means of hydrochloric acid.* 13 .
The same , thin layer ( the band at F is shown rather too dark .
) 14 .
The same treated with caustic soda.f 15 .
Alcoholic solution of chloroformic , residue of human bile pigments^ deep layer ; in a thinner layer another band is seen wave-length 504 to 480 .
" 16 .
Ditto , treated with zinc chloride .
" 17 .
Ditto , treated with hydrochloric acid .
18 .
Thin layer of the same .
Compare 2 , 7 , 12 , and 17 , and 3 , 14 , and 16 .
Chart III .
Spectrum 1 .
Solar spectrum .
I " 2 .
Ox-bile .
3 .
Chloroformic solution pigments of ox-bile .
( Compare 2 and 3 with 20y infra .
) * " 4 .
Pigments of ox-bile in alcohol .
" 5 .
The same treated with caustic soda .
" 6 .
Action of chloride of zinc on alcoholic solution ( 4 ) .
" 7 .
The same , shallow depth .
" 8 .
The same ( 7 ) treated with hydrochloric acid .
* " 9 .
Haematoin ( acid haematin ) in alcohol .
, , 10 .
Haematoin treated with zinc and sulphuric acid and filtered .
( Compare Chart 1 , 11 , 12 , 14-K " 11 .
The isolated urohaematin in alcohol .
" 12 .
The alcoholic solution with caustic soda .
" 13 .
The alcoholic solution with zinc chloride .
" 14 .
The artificially prepared urohaematin in chloroform .
" 15 .
Action of peroxide of hydrogen on haematoin .
" 16 .
The pigment produced by oxidation isolated and reduced by sodium amalgam and filtered .
" 17 .
This filtrate treated with sulphuric acid .
" 18 .
Spectrum produced by the action of decolorised bile on haemoglobin .
" 19 .
The same or a similar spectrum , got by acting on blood with alcohol and caustic soda .
" 20 .
Spectrum closely resembling sheep or ox bile , produced by the action of sodium amalgam for half-an-hour in the cold , on the body whose spectrum is shown in 19 .
( Compare 2 and 3 , supra .
) Chart IV .
Spectrum 1 .
Solar spectrum .
" 2 .
Sheep-bile .
" 3 .
Pigments of sheep-bile in chloroform .
" 4 .
Pigments of sheep-bile in alcohol .
" 5 .
Bands of haemochromogen , got by adding sulphide of ammonium to fluid giving 4 .
* And dissolved in alcohol .
T This also represents solution of which sp. 15 is the map treated with caustic soda .
236 On the Colouring-matters of Human Urine[Dec .
If ] -Spectrum 6 .
Thinner stratum of the same .
\gt ; \gt ; Alcoholic extract of human hile pigments .
" 8 .
The same treated with sulphide of ammonium , showing the presence ot hsemochromogen .
" 9* Alcoholic extract of human bile pigments with peroxide of hydrosen violet stage .
" 10 .
The same\#151 ; end of reaction .
" 11 .
The absorption-band of serum , from blood of sheep ( showing awe O-heemoglobin bands ) .
" 12 .
Spectrum got by treating alcoholic extract of sheep-bile pigments with caustic soda for a short time .
" 13 ' Spectrum closely resembling lutein got by longer action .
This spectrum was also produced from h\lt ; Bmatin reduced by sodium amalgam , or at all events a spectrum very like it , by somewhat similar treatment .
Table giving the wave-length corresponding to each division of the scale in millionths of a millimetre .
e reading .
* Wave-length .
Scale reading .
Wave-length .
28 , ... 683 56 530 29 ... 671 57 52fi 30 660 58 523 31 ... 654 59 520 32 ... 646 60 516 33 ... 639 61 513 34 ... 632 62 510 35 ... 625 63 507 36 ... 620 64 504 37 ... 614 65 501 38 ... 608 66 499 39 ... 603 67 496 40 ... 598 68 493 41 ... 593 69 491 42 ... 588 70 488 43 ... 584 71 486 44 ... 580 72 484 45 ... 576 73 482 46 ... 571 74 480 47 ... 567 75 478 48 ... 562 76 476 49 ... 558 77 . .
474 50 ... 555 78 . . .
472 51 ... 550 79 ... 469 52 ... 546 80 ... . .
... 467 53 ... 542 81 465 54 ... 538 82 ... 463 55 ... 534 83 ... 461 * 1880 .
] , On the Magnetic Inclination the Azores .
Scale reading .
84 Wave-length .
... 459 85 ... 457 * 86 ... 455 87 ... 453 88 ... 451 89 ... 450 90 ' ... . .
... 448 91 ... 447 92 ... 445 93 ... 443 Scale reading .
94 Wave-length .
... 442 95 ... 440 96 ... 438 97 437 98 435 99 434 100 432 101 430 102 429 103 ... 427-5 IV .
" Note on the Determination of Magnetic Inclination in the Azores .
" By T. E. Thorpe , Ph. D. , F.R.S. Received November 13 , 1830 .
With the exception of a series of determinations made by the officers of the " Challenger " at Ponta Delgada , St. Michael , in 1873 , no magnetic observations have , so far as I can learn , been made in the Azores since the time , of Captain Vidal 's hydrographic survey in 1843-4 .
A visit to these islands during the past summer has enabled me to offer the small contribution to their magnetic history which forms the subject of the present communication .
Magnetic observations are made with some difficulty in the Azores , on account of the intensely volcanic character of the islands .
Considerable care was however taken in selecting the stations , and there is no reason to suppose that the observations are affected to any great -extent by the nature of the soil or rock immediately beneath the instrument or in proximity to it .
The places chosen were such as will enable subsequent observers to repeat the determinations on the same spots .
* The dip-circle employed was Dover 3 , belonging to the Owens College , Manchester : I had previously used this instrument in the course of my magnetic observations along the fortieth parallel in North America ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 132 ) , and am again indebted to Professor Balfour Stewart for the loan of it .
It was provided with two needles , each 3^ inches long and 0 27 inch in maximum breadth .
The same precautions were taken to preserve the needles from rust as are described in the communication above referred to , and the method of observation was identical with that previously adopted .
In all cases duplicate and independent observations were made with the two needles .
VOL. XXXI .
s

