An Appendix to Mr. Ware 's Paper on Vision .
By Sir Charles Blagden , F.R.S. Read February 4 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 110 .
] The author remarks , that Mr. Ware 's observations with regard to short-sightedness , being in general merely the consequence of habit acquired at an early age , is conformable with his own experience in general , and that he himself is a particular instance of natural longsightedness gradually converted into confirmed short sight .
He very well remembers first learning to read , at the common age of four or five years , and that at that time he could see the usual inscriptions across a wide church ; but that at the age of nine or ten years he could no longer distinguish the same letters at the same distance , without the assistance of a watch-glass , which has the effect of one slightly concave .
In a few years more the same glass was not sufficiently powerfLul ; but yet his degree of short-sightedness was so inconsiderable , that he yielded to the dissuasion of his friends from using the common concave glasses till he was upwards of thirty years of age , when No. 2 was barely sufficient ; and he very shortly had recourse to No. 3 .
In the course of a few years an increase of the defect rendered it necessary for him to employ glasses still deeper , and his sight soon required No. 5 , where it has remained stationary to the present time .
From the progress which Sir Charles Blagden has observed in his own short-sightedness , he is of opinion that it would have been accelerated by an earlier use of concave glasses , and might have been retarded , or perhaps prevented altogether , by attention to read and write with his book or paper as far distant as might be from his eyes .
In this communication he takes the same opportunity of adding an experiment made many years since on the subject of vision , with a view to decide how far the similarity of the images received by the two eyes contribute to the impression made on the mind , that they arise from only one object .
In the house where he then resided , was a marble surface ornamented with fluting , in alternate ridges and concavities .
When his eyes were directed to these , at the distance of nine inches , they could be seen with perfect distinctness .
When the optic axes were directed to a point at some distance behind , the ridges seen by one eye became confounded with the impression of concavities made upon the other , and occasioned the uneasy sensation usual in squinting .
But when the eyes were directed to a point still more distant , the impression of one ridge on the right eye corresponded with that made with an adjacent ridge upon the left eye , so that the fluting then appeared distinct and single as at first , but the object appeared at double its real distance , and apparently magnified in that proportion .
Though the different parts of the fluting were of the same form , their colours were not exactly alike , and this occasioned some degree of confusion when attention was paid to this degree of dissimilarity .

