XVIII .
" On the Structure and Functions of the Rostellum in Listera ovata .
" By J. D. HOOKER , M.D. , F.R.S. Received June 15 , 1854 .
The author first gives an account of the form and structure of the rostellum of Listera ovata , and its relation and position to the anther and stigma .
He finds that the rostellum is divided by parallel septa ( at right angles to the plane of that organ ) into a series of longitudinally elongated loculi , which gradually taper from the base upwards , and terminate at two opake cellular spots , one on each side of the apex of the rostellum , towards which latter the loculi also converge .
When the flower is fully expanded , these loculi are distended with a viscid grumous fluid , full of chlorophyll granules .
Their external walls , and the septa dividing them , are formed of a delicate , transparent tissue , which is cellular at the base and apex of the rostellum only .
Their grumous contents , when examined at the earliest period of development , present the appearance of opake club-shaped compressed bodies , with areolated surfaces ; a form and appearance that may be restored at a later period by coagulating with alcohol .
At the period of impregnation the slightest irritation of the rostellum causes the sudden and forcible discharge cf the contents of these loculi ( through the rupture of the cellular tissue at the apex of the rostellum ) and its protrusion in the form of two viscid glands , which coalesce into one , after which the rostellum rapidly collapses and contracts .
The pollen-masses , when freed from the anther-case , fall naturally upon the rostellum ; they are retained there by their viscid gland-like contents , and , breaking up , the pollen-grains become ( by the contraction of the rostellum ) applied to the subjacent stigmatic surface .
The author adds remarks on the structure of the rostellurn in allied genera of Orchidee , and indicates some of the more important morphological changes to which that organ is subjected , in connection with the development of various appendages to the column and pollen in the same natural family .

