432 Mr. G. H. Darwin .
On [ june that I have done upon this last subject .
Observations conducted under varied physiological conditions require to be undertaken , so that besides having the facts as mere chemical facts before us , we may be in a position also to deal with them from a physiological point of view In a subsequent communication , I will enter further into this matter and then supply details of the actual quantitative results .
Summary of Conclusions .
Beruardin ( glycogen ) does not undergo any significant transformation into sugar in contact with blood .
Bernardin exists to a distinctly notable extent as a normal constituent of blood .
The evidence derivable from the observations recorded on the addition of Bernardin to blood and its subsequent recovery , and on its extraction from the liver by boiling water on successive days , and by water at 300 F. , tends to show that Bernardin enters into feeble combination with nitrogenous matter .
Bernardin exists in notable amount , not only in muscle , as has been previously known , but also in the spleen , pancreas , kidney , and brain. .
These are all the structures I have yet examined .
It also exists in notable amount in the white and yolk of egg .
These several products likewise contain a cupric oxide reducing substance , which is extracted by alcohol , and which , in most instances , possesses the characters of glucose , but , specially in the case of muscle , the characters of maltose^ Through the existence of Bernardin ( glycogen ) throughout the system , as has been represented , we have a carbohydrate occupying a parallel position to albumen , viz. , existing in the colloidal state , and thus adapted for retention within the body , instead of passing off1 as a diffusible substance as glucose tends to do .
XVIII .
" On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by the Weight of Continents and Mountains .
" By G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. Received June 11 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper I have considered the subject of the solidity and strength of the materials of which the earth is formed from a point of view from which it does not seem to have been hitherto discussed .
The first part of the paper is entirely devoted to a mathematical investigation , based upon Sir Yfllliam Thomson 's well-known paper on the rigidity of the earth.^ The second part consists of a summary and discussion of the preceding work .
* " Thomson and Tait 's Nat. Phil. , " S 834 , or " Phil. Trans. , " 1863 , p. 573 .
1881 .
] Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth , 8fc .
The existence of dry land proves that the earth 's surface is not a figure of equilibrium appropriate for the diurnal rotation Hence the interior of the earth must be in a state of stress , and as the land does not sink in , nor the sea-bed rise up , the materials of which the earth is made must be strong enough to bear this stress .
We are thus led to inquire how the stresses are distributed m the earth 's mass , and what are magnitudes of the stresses .
In this paper I have solved a problem of the kind indicated for the case of a homogeneous incompressible elastic sphere , and have applied the results to the case of the earth .
, , If the earth be formed of a crust with a semi-fluid interior , the stresses in that crust must be greater than if the whole mass be solid , very far greater if the crust be thin .
As regards the condition of incompressibility attributed to the materials of the earth , it is proved in this paper that the compressibility of the solid would make no sensible difference in the results ; except , indeed , in the case where the deformation of the sphere is of the second spherical harmonic class , when large compressibility would considerably modify the results .
The strength of an elastic solid is here estimated by the difference between the greatest and least principal stresses , when it is on the point of breaking , or , according to the phraseology adopted , by the breaking stress-difference .
The most familiar examples of breaking stress-difference are when a wire or rod is stretched or crushed until it breaks ; then the breaking load divided by the area of the section of the wire or rod is the measure of the strength of the material .
Stress-difference is thus to be measured by tons per square inch .
Tables of breaking stress-differences for various materials are given The problem is only solved for the class of inequalities called zonal harmonics ; these consist of a number of waves running round the globe in parallels of latitude .
The number of waves is determined by the order of the harmonic .
In the application to the earth the equator here referred to may be any great circle , and is not necessarily the terrestrial equator .
The second harmonic has only a single wave , and consists of an elevation at an equator and depression at the pole ; this constitutes ellipticity of the spheroid .
An harmonic of a high order may be described as a series of mountain chains , with intervening valleys , running round the globe in parallels of latitude , estimated with reference to the chosen equator .
The case of the second harmonic is considered in detail , and it is shown that the stress-difference rises to a maximum at the centre of the globe , and is constant all over the surface .
The cential stress-difference is eight times as great as the superficial .
On evaluating the stress-difference arising from given ellipticity in a rotating spheroid of the size and density of the earth , it appears that 434 On Stresses caused in Interior of the Earth , [ June 16 if the excess or defect of ellipticity above or below the equilibrium value were ToVo\gt ; then the stress-difference at the centre would be 8 tons per square inch ; and that , if the sphere were made of material as strong as brass , it would be just on the point of rupture .
Again if the homogeneous earth , with ellipticity were to stop rotating ' the central stress-difference would be 33 tons per square inch , and it would rapture if made of any material excepting the finest steel .
The stresses produced by harmonic inequalities of high orders are next considered .
This is in effect the case of a series of parallel mountains and valleys , corrugating a mean level surface with an infinite series of parallel ridges and furrows .
It is found that the stress-difference depends only on the depth below the mean surface , and is independent of the position of the point considered with regard to ridge and furrow .
Numerical calculation shows that if we take a series of mountains , whose crests are 4,000 meters , or about 13,000 feet , above the intermediate valley bottoms , formed of rock of specific gravity 2-8 , then the maximum stress-difference is 2*6 tons per square inch ( about the tenacity of cast tin ) ; also if the mountain chains are 314 miles apart , the maximum stress-difference is reached at 50 miles below the mean surface .
The solution shows that the stress-difference is at the surface .
It is , however , only an approximate solution , for it will not give the stresses actually in the mountain masses , but it gives correct results at some three or four miles below the mean surface .
The cases of the harmonics of the 4th , 6th , 8th , 10th , and 12th orders are then considered ; and it is shown that , if we suppose them to exist on a sphere of the mean density and dimensions of the earth , and that the height of the elevation at the equator is in each case 1,500 meters above the mean level of the sphere , then in each case the maximum stress-difference is about 4 tons per square inch .
This maximum is reached in the case of the 4th harmonic at 1,150 miles , and for the 12tli at 350 miles , from the earth 's surface .
In the second part of the paper it is shown that the great terrestrial inequalities , such as Africa , the Atlantic Ocean , and America , are represented by an harmonic of the 4th order ; and that , having regard to the mean density of the earth being about twice that of superficial rocks , the height of the elevation is to be taken as about 1,500 meters .
Tour tons per square inch is the crashing stress-difference of average granite , and accordingly it is concluded that at 1,000 miles from the earth 's surface the materials of the earth must be at least as strong as granite .
A very closely analogous result is also found from the discussion of the case in which the continent has not the regular wavy character of the zonal harmonics , but consists of an equatorial -elevation with the rest of the spheroid approximately spherical .
j On the Refraction of Electricity .
435 From this we may draw the conclusion , that either the materials oi the earth have about the strength of granite at 1,000 miles from the surface , or they have a much greater strength nearer to the surface .
This investigation must be regarded as confirmatory of Sir Wiliam Thomson 's view , that the earth is solid nearly throughout its whole mass According to this view , the lava which issues from volcanoes Arises from the melting of solid rock , existing at a very high temperature , at points where there is a diminution of pressure , or else from comparatively small vesicles of rock m a molten condition .
XIX " On the Refraction of Electricity .
" By Alfred Tribe , F I C , Lecturer on Chemistry in Dulwich College .
Communicated by Dr. Gladstone , F.R.S. Received June 7 , 1881 .
On December 15 , 1880 , I had the honour of communicating to the Royal Society the latest results of my work on electric dis ri u ion .
In that paper there is included a description of results which form t basis of a graphic and electro-chemical method of investigating field of electrolytic action .
These results may be classed under three heads \#151 ; 1st .
Distribution of electricity on metallic conductors m electrolytic media .
2nd .
Physical differences in corresponding parts of non-homogeneous electrolytic fields .
3rd .
Direction m which the energy is transmitted .
, As the detailed account of these experiments has not yet been published , it is necessary for the appreciation of the evidence to be adduced to give in this place the groundwork of that part oi !
the method relating to the direction in which the energy is transmitted .
It will be convenient to do this under three heads .
Let it e rem bered that a rectangular electrolytic cell was used , that the elec ro y e was a solution of copper sulphate , and the electrical relations of the liquid were ascertained by immersing in it a rectangular silver plate ( called an analysing plate or analyser ) , on which the ions were epo-sited .
In all cases the positive ion separates and is distributed on part of the plate which may be supposed to receive - electrification , or by which the + energy enters the analyser , while the - ion separates on that part of the same plate which receives + electrification , or from which , the energy emerges .
# , ?
a. When the course of the energy* is parallel with any two e ges o an analyser , and therefore with the sides , the boundary lines of the ions on both sides of the plate are parallel with the plane of the e ec* I assume that the energy in a homogeneous field runs in straight parallel from one electrode to another , and that this course is not appreciably disturbed by an analyser .

