Waller Esq ; Reg. S. Secret .
( 9 .
) An account of a Ruminating Man , lately Living at Bristol , given in to the R. Society by the Experienced and learned Frederick Slare , M. D. and Reg. Soc. S. ( 10 .
) A Letter from that incomparable Botanist Mr. John Ray , R. S. Soc. giving an account of the Phytographia of Dr. Leonard Plukenet , M.D.lately Published .
An Account of a large and curious Map of the Great Tartary , lately Published in Holland , by Mr. NICHOLASWITSE N , being an Extract of a Letter from the Author thereof , to the Honourable Sir ROBERTSOUTHWELL Knt. and President of the Royal Society .
The Honourable NICHOLAS WITSEN late Ambassador into England , and now one of the Principal Burgomasters of Amsterdam , having sent several of his New Maps of Tartary to the Fellows of the Royal Society , the Honourable their President was pleased to write unto him as follows SIR , I Have lately had a great Effect of your Bounty in the Maps of Tartary .
this is Columbus like , the Discovery of a New World ; at least Tidings of those Parts , which from the beginning have lain in the Dark .
But the Enterprise being so vast , and the success so unexpected ; the Public are very impatient to be told by what Magic you have been able to master this Work .
For it looks in one Part no less difficult then a Geographical Description of the Bottom of the Sea ; I mean as to those impenetrable Deserts , the endless Boggs and Marshes , the inaccessable Mountains and those mighty Tracts , which by their Climate are rendered uninhabitable ; since all these seem by Nature to have been condemned to an everlasting Solitude .
Now Now for the rest , when I consider that the Caravans passing between Muscovy and China are not frequent ; that they are confined to certain Paths and Lines of Trade ; That the Merchants and common Travellers mind nothing but the Security and Certainty of the Journey , and the Profit that ensues ; And that those who should inform them of Extents and Boundaries , are a Rambling and uncultivated Generation , and of various Languages .
If after all these Impediments , you shall yet be able to show the Credibility of your Survey , you need think no more of Fame , but only pray for Humility .
Ta which Mr. Witsen was pleased to Answer to the Effect following .
SIR , IT IS almost 28 years since I Travelled into Russia , and being there merely for my own Satisfaction , I not only Conversed with the Inhabitants of those Countries , but with Tartars of all sorts .
There I grew first informed not only in the Situation of those Parts , but of such Countries as lay very remote .
I have not ceased from that time , by various Methods I have found , to send Letters unto , and receive Answers from the most Northern , and North-East parts of the World .
For I have maintained a constant Correspondence in Mosco , Astracan , Georgia , Ispahan , Polonia , and Constantinople , I have had Letters every year from Pekin , the chief City of China .
I have gathered Volumes of Journals and Registers , which set forth the Names of Mountains , Rivers , Cities and Towns , together with a vast number of Drafts made by my own Order , which describe the Territories that I have mentioned .
It is from this Fund , which has been gathering for so many years , and by comparing and adjusting all these Materials , and by preserving without intermission therein , that the Map is made up .
After all , I am far from thinking it has no faults , it is very well if such as are found , be not many , or very gross , I confefs my own greatest doubts are about the stretching of the Sea-Coasts .
And it is therefore that I express them in a faint and pale Colour , to signify the uncertainty thereof .
But as to the Latitudes , I have more assurance of their being well noted , and suspect but little mistakes , if there be any therein .
I am yet in suspense whether the North-East Point which you see bearing off in the Map , may run quite on to America ; or how far thither-ward it may reach .
I formerly thought Nova Zembla had been a Continent , and when I wrote my Opinion herein to Mr. Oldenbourg , he put it into one of his Transactions .
But I have since been better informed , and retracted that Error .
And whereas the late Monsieur Vossius would needs persuade himself , as well as he did others to their Ruin , that there was a passage to Japan by the North , and that the Tartarian Countries behind Nova Zembla did immediately decline towards the South ; I did always oppose it , and think I can even demonstrate the Impossibility thereof .
So that what he wrote to encourage Mariners to that attempt , was even directing them to the point of Death , as it afterwards ensued .
My intention is , if I live , and may have leisure for it , to make several particular Maps of the sundry Countries contained in this General One , and to give the Descriptions which appertain to each .

