409 Experimental Work on a New Standard of Light .
By W. A. Hakwood and J. E. Petavel , F.E.S. ( Received January 10 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read March 21 , 1912 .
) The competition between flame and incandescent standards of light , which has existed almost since the necessity for a standard began to be realised , has resolved itself for the time being into a compromise , so that , while Europe continues to employ the flame standard and America the electric glow-lamp , the relation of these two has been accurately determined , and they are now expressible in terms of the accepted International standard candle.* This state of affairs , however , can hardly be considered as final , and effort has not altogether ceased to be directed towards finding some standard free from the defects of those at present in use .
The following is an account of the results of an examination of an incandescent standard proposed some years ago.f In bringing forward the original proposal , a review of the state of the / subject led to the following conclusions :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The Violle molten platinum standard is satisfactory as an absolute standard of reference .
( 2 ) The flame standards are the most convenient for general use , and are of sufficient accuracy for commercial purposes .
( 3 ) The secondary standard , intended to serve as a go-between from the absolute to the commercial standards , are in the least satisfactory state of the three .
The sets of Fleming large-bulb glow-lamps , which are now so largely used , are subject to a gradual decay and to the multiplication of photometric errors by successive inter-comparison .
The suggested new standard was intended to fill the gap , by providing a single apparatus , which should be free from the above defects .
The principle upon which it was based consisted in taking the quality of the radiation itself as the criterion by which the temperature of the radiator was regulated .
The sensitiveness and accuracy of the spectrophotometer and spectro-bolometer proved to be insufficient for this purpose , and the analysis of the radiation was obtained by making use of the selective absorption of black fluorspar and water , the former of which transmits essentially radiation of long wave-length , to which the latter is nearly opaque .
The method used may be described as follows : The electric radiator consists of a wide strip of metal placed behind a water-cooled diaphragm .
Two thermopiles , connected in opposition , are placed on the right and left of * ' Phil. Mag. , ' August , 1909 , vol. 18 , p. 263 .
t ' Electrician , ' April 10 , 1903 , vol. 50 , p. 1012 .
410 Experimental Work on a New Standard of Light .
the axis of the photometer , and receive respectively the radiation passing through a plate of black fluorspar and through a water-trough .
As the temperature of the radiating strip increases , the percentage of the total radiation which penetrates the water will increase , and the percentage which penetrates the fluorspar will decrease .
At some temperature the two will be equal , and the electromotive force in the galvanometer circuit will therefore fall to zero .
This zero point may be used to fix the standard temperature .
The choice of a suitable material for the radiator offered some difficulty .
The emissivity of the oxides of the rare earths alters under prolonged heating , and only the metals of the platinum group will withstand exposure to air when at a high temperature .
Iridium disintegrates rapidly at temperatures above 1600 ' C. , a continuous stream of black smoke arising from the surface of the metal .
The loss of weight measured on various occasions amounted to about 4 mgrm .
per square centimetre per hour .
The evaporation of platinum is about 10 times slower , but , unless the metal is chemically pure , a gradual change in the texture of the surface produces a variation in the intensity of the light emitted .
After a long series of experiments , chemically pure platinum was chosen as the radiating substance .
The apparatus was first set up , and subjected to tests extending over several months .
The experience thus gained resulted in the construction of a self-contained instrument , the cost of which was defrayed by the Government Grant Committee of the Royal Society .
The platinum strip , 7 x 12 cm .
and about 005 mm. thick , was stretched between two water-cooled clips connected to a low-tension battery through a variable resistance .
The strip was enclosed in a cylindrical water-cooled casing having three apertures .
The light , passing through a diaphragm , was directed on the photometer head , and the radiation emitted from the other side of the same portion of the strip reached the two thermopiles , which were placed at 30 ' to the axis of the photometer .
Careful tests proved that , with suitable precautions , the variations in intensity of the light emitted by such an apparatus will not exceed + 0'5 per cent. , and in this respect the result of the work can be considered entirely successful .
On the other hand , this form of standard is not portable , the intensity of the light emitted is low , its colour unsatisfactory , and , finally , much skill and care is required in the adjustment of the very sensitive thermo-electric circuit .
From a practical point of view , these defects are probably sufficient to outweigh the advantage gained with regard to accuracy , and it is therefore thought unnecessary to give a detailed account of the experimental work .

