1879 .
] On Pepsin-forming Glands during Secretion .
II .
" On the Changes in Pepsin-forming Glands during Secretion .
" By J. N. Langley , M.A. , Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge , and H. Sewall , B.Sc. , Fellow of the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , U.S.A. Communicated by Professor Michael Foster , M.D. , F.R.S. Received October 13,1879 .
The ( Esophageal Glands of the Frog .
( Rana temporaria .
) In a frog three to four days after food the acini of the oesophageal glands in the living state are granular throughout , and so thickly granular that the outlines of the alveoli are but faintly indicated , the outlines of the cells not at all seen , nor are there any indications of nuclei .
Shortly after food is- given , the granules thin away at the peripheries of the alveoli and so render the alveolar outlines more obvious .
This thinning proceeds so rapidly that in a few hours there is a well-marked clear zone in the outer part of each alveolus , the part nearest the basement membrane .
Later the clear zone becomes larger , the granular zone becoming smaller , but as the clear zone enlarges it ceases to form in section a ring , it dips down into the granular zone at intervals , or in other words , the cells in using up their stored granules do not all use them up at the same rate , some are more energetic than others , so that the granular zone takes in section a somewhat star shape .
In addition to this , the star-form of the granular zone is aided by the granules along the margins being less readily used up than those in the interior of the cells .
Nuclei are as little seen in the digesting as in the resting gland .
The glands having then as digestion goes on got rid of a large number of their granules , proceed to form others as digestion ceases .
The clear spaces between the points of the star are filled up , and the clear zone forms granules from within outwards , until the granules once more extend to the basement membrane .
An indication of the changes taking place in the alveoli of the glands can be seen in the oesophagus itself with the unaided eye ; in a hungry frog the oesophagus is an opaque white , in a digesting frog it is greyer and more transparent .
Progs in an ill state of health do not show the full granular condition characteristic of the hungry frog , the granules are much less numerous , and often , indeed , do not extend to the basement membrane ; with these , however , as with healthy frogs , the granules diminish during digestion .
The granules we have hitherto spoken of may be called " central " Messrs. J. N. Langley and H. Sewall .
[ Nov. 27 , grannies , to distinguish them from others which occur immediately beneath the basement membrane .
These " border " granules are smaller and more highly refractive ; they occur usually in small| clumps .
The points mentioned above as observable in the fresh tissue , can also in the main be observed in glands treated first with osmic acid and then with alcohol .
There are one or two things to be noticed in sections of glands so treated .
The border granules stain more deeply and readily than the central granules .
The mucous cell granules have disappeared , the cells present the usual characters of a mucous cell in hardened specimens .
In the resting gland the nuclei are generally hidden ; in the digesting gland the nuclei are large , spherical , situated in the clear zone , with faint outlines ; the nucleolus is deeply stained and prominent .
In the digesting there are fewer obvious mucous cells than in the resting gland .
Nussbaum* has made some observations on the glands treated with osmic acid ; it will be noticed that we differ from him in almost every respect .
Swie^ickif found the glands after treatment with alcohol , to be , in the digesting state as a rule , larger , more granular , and better staining .
The greater granulation here obviously only means that in the digesting state there is a greater amount of substance precipitable by alcohol in the granular condition .
The cells when alive are less granular during digestion .
Partsch , J working also with hardened specimens , found the glands to increase in size as they secreted , but only for the first 5\#151 ; 10 hours .
Whilst not prepared to deny that an increase of size may in the first stages take place , we have failed to observe it , and are inclined to think that as the granules are used up , there is a steady diminution in the size of the glands .
Comparing Griitzner 's S observations on the amount of ferment present in the glands in hunger and digestion with our own on their varying granular state , we find that the ferment diminishes during digestion as do the granules .
For this and other reasons we are inclined to consider the granules as stored up cell products which , on suffering molecular re-arrangement , give rise amongst other substances to the proteid ferment .
Nussbaum also holds this , ascribing however both to granules and ferment a different maximal time .
W"e cannot agree with Nussbaum 's view that the depth of staining with osmic acid tells the amount of ferment unless perhaps it is restricted much more than he is inclined * Max Schiiltze .
" Arch. f. Mik .
Anat .
" Bd .
xiii , p. 746 , 1877 .
.f Pfltiger .
" Archiv f. d. Q-es .
Physiologic , " Bd .
xiii , p. 444 , 1876 .
t Max Schultze .
" Arch. f. Mik .
Anat .
" Bd .
xiv , p. 179 , 1877 .
S Plliiger .
" Arch. f. d. ( Jos .
Physiologic , " Bd .
xvi , p. 122 , 1877 .
1879 .
] On Pepsin-forming Glands during .
385 to restrict it .
On his view it appears to us the border rather than the central granules should be connected with the ferment .
The Gastric Glands of the Newt ( Triton Taeniatus ) .
In the newt the glands were observed through the muscular coat of the stomach , with a rapid capillary circulation still going on .
Twenty-four hours after feeding , the glands of the fundus are thickly granular throughout ; about three hours after feeding , the maximal change takes place ; it corresponds in the main to that already described for the oesophageal glands of the frog .
In the newt the lumina and cell outlines become more conspicuous , the clear zone is generally less sharply marked off from the granular zone ; and the star arrangement of the granules is apparently only caused by the presence of granules along the lateral margin of the cells after those in the interior have disappeared .
The glands recover their granular appearance comparatively quickly ; in six hours after feeding , the granules have usually again crept up to the periphery , they then increase in number throughout the cells up to about the twenty-fourth hour .
Later than this they diminish somewhat , in six days the peripheries of the glands have become more sparsely populated .
It is at this period that digestion changes are most readily observed .
The pyloric glands are clear , or very finely granular , changes in them would be much less conspicuous , in such observations as we have made ; we have seen no difference in the hungry and digesting states .
In Triton cristatus the digestive changes are of the same nature , but much less pronounced .
The Gastric Glands of Stickleback ( Gasteropodus trispinatus ?
) We chose the stickleback mainly f\#187 ; r its voracity , there is seldom any difficulty in feeding it .
In the gastric glands of the hungry fish , the granules thin away somewhat from the centre to the periphery , the lumina are inconspicuous ; three to five hours after feeding the lumina are much larger , the granules are aggregated about it leaving a peripheral clear rim , the glands are more unequal in size , some having lost more granules and diminished more in size than others .
The Gastric Glands of Majnmals .
Examining in the fresh state , the glands of the fundus of the dog , cat , or rat , we find that the body of each gland is marked out sharply into two parts .
A central part near the lnmen , consisting of many rather large sharp granules , these granules form a central mass , which here 386 Messrs. J. N. Langley and H. Sewall .
[ Nov. 27 , and there branches out to the periphery , no cell outline at all can be seen .
A peripheral very finely granular almost homogeneous part .
The necks of the glands are finely granular , -with scattered small dark granular patches .
By treatment with 33 per cent , potash and other re-agents , it can be seen that the dark granules are contained in the chief-cells ; the outer finely granular or clear portion of the glands being the border-cells .
At the outer border , the outlines of the border-cells can be well seen ; at the junctions of the cells , however , the outlines disappear .
No nuclei are visible .
The small dark granular patches in the necks of the glands are found to be also the chief-cells which are here and there scattered amongst the border-cells .
The pyloric glands in the fresh state are fairly transparent , finely granular to homogeneous .
The lumina are usually distinct , and often stretch up between the cells ; apart from this no cell outlines are visible .
No nuclei are to be seen .
Heidenhain* described correctly the appearance of the fresh fundus glands ; except that he mentions the nuclei of the border-cells as being normally just visible .
Ebstein , f I think , implies that the pyloric glands are normally not coarsely granular .
Yet Heidenhain , Ebstein , G-riitzner , and others , who advocate the identity of the chief-cells with the pyloric gland cells , do not seem to have noticed the difference existing between the two cells in the fresh state .
The difference is , however , most marked .
The above description is of the chief-cells in the resting state .
If .
the glands are observed a few hours after a hungry animal has been fed , the central granular mass in the body of the gland is found to have very much diminished .
A transverse section instead of showing a thick mass of granules stretching here nearly , there quite to the periphery , show a narrow rim or star of granules .
During secretion then the granules of the chief-cells are used up .
The stomach of the rabbit deserves especial consideration .
It may be divided into four portions , each in succession graduating into the next .
1 .
The Fundus or dilatation at the cardiac end of the stomach .
This is to the eye of an opaque white colour .
The body of each gland shows comparatively few border-cells , but consists mainly of a darkly granular mass of chief-cells .
2 .
The Greater Curvature .
This is to the eye somewhat pink ; in fresh specimens scarcely any dark granules are to be seen .
In passing from the fundus to the greater curvature , the number of dark granules gradually diminishes , at first being confined more and more to the * Max Sehiiltze .
" Arch. f. Mik .
Anat .
" Bd .
vi , p. 368 , 1870 .
t P. 515 , 1870 .
1879 .
] On Pepsin-forming Glands during Secretion .
387 deeper parts of the glands than those also taking a thin rim or star arrangement .
3 .
The Lesser Curvature .
The glands here have the character given above for pyloric glands .
4 .
The Pylorus .
The glands are simply shallow depressions of the mucous membrane , and are still more transparent than the glands of the smaller curvature .
In hunger the opaque thickly granular region encroaches on the greater curvature .
In digestion the granules diminish , beginning at the opaque part near the greater curvature , so that the opaque thickly granular region is more and more limited to the extremity of the fundus .
As far as concerns the diminution of the coarse granules of the chief-cells during digestion , this is but a repetition of what we have already said of the dog , cat , and rat .
The point of additional interest is this .
Sections of alcohol-hardened fragments of the greater curvature show that here , as well as in the fundus , there are a large number of chief-cells .
Probably no one examining such sections of the greater curvature would consider them as other than typical fundus glands with chief-cells and border-cells .
Yet the former cells in the fresh state do not contain the coarse granules characteristic of chief-cells .
Deferring for a moment the consideration of this , we would mention some experiments we have made on the amount of ferment-content of the various parts of the rabbit 's stomach .
Equal-sized pieces of the mucous membrane of a rabbit were taken and put in absolute alcohol .
A. From the fundus .
B. From the greater curvature .
0 .
From the smaller curvature , including part of the pylorus .
These were kindly tested for ferment by Mr. Sheridan Lea , of Trinity College , both by the ordinary digestive method and by .Grutzner 's colorimetric method .
The result was that A contained more ferment than either B or C ; *B and C contained a not very different amount , B rather more than C. Now A contained border-cells and coarsely granular chief-cells ; B contained more border-cells than A , but chief-cells with scarcely any coarse granules ; C contained only pyloric cells , with possibly here and there a solitary border-cell .
Hence the part with the pre-eminently large number of border-cells offered hardly appreciably more pepsin than the part containing few , if any ; the conclusion that the border-cells do not form pepsin appears to us unavoidable .
Moreover a comparatively very large amount of pepsin was contained in the part of the mucous membrane with a densely granular chief-cell .
This , we think , is enough to connect the ferment with these granules ; in this opinion we are confirmed by the result of the following experiment .
Two rabbits of the same breed , and in all 388 Baron Ettingshausen .
[ Nov. 27 , respects as much as possible alike , were taken ; one was killed hungryJ i.e. , twenty-four hours after feeding , the other in full digestion some 5\#151 ; 6 hours after a plenteous meal .
The gastric mucous membrane showed the usual difference to the unaided eye and to microscopical examination ; equal-sized pieces were removed from as near as possible a corresponding position of the fundus of each animal .
They were tested by Mr. Lea for ferment , the resting more granular piece was found to possess a not inconsiderably greater amount of ferment than the active less granular piece .
We may recall that Grutzner found the amount of ferment to diminish during digestion .
There is one other fact which leads us to connect the chief-cell granules with the ferment ; in protracted hunger the chief-cell granules , instead of increasing diminish , as we have mentioned above , occurs in the newt ; according to Grutzner , in protracted hunger , the ferment-content of the gastric mucous membrane diminishes .
To return to the consideration of the meaning of the finely granular chief-cells of the greater curvature .
These differ but little , histologically , from the pyloric gland cells .
Both form pepsin .
Such close similarity in form and function justify us in considering them to be fundamentally the same kind of cell .
How , then , do they stand related to the coarsely granular chief-cells P The distinguishing features of the latter are their coarsely granular appearance and their large ferment-content ; in an extreme digestive stage these features become much less conspicuous .
We are led , then , to think that the coarsely granular chief-cells are but a more highly developed form of the cells found in the other parts of the stomach as the finely granular chief-cells and pyloric gland cells .
The greater curvature of the rabbit probably corresponds to the intermediary portion of the stomachs of dog , cat , and rat. .
It will be noticed that in the main we advocate Heidenhain 's views , objecting , however , to the statement that the chief-cells and the pyloric gland cells are identical , since their normal appearance is so strikingly different .
The investigations , of which the foregoing is a brief account , were carried on in the Physiological Laboratory , Cambridge .
III .
" Report on Phyto-Palseontological Investigations of the Fossil Flora of Sheppey .
" By Dr. Constantin Baron Ettingshausen , Professor in the University of Graz , Austria .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received November 3 , 1879 .
One of the most important , if not the most important , locality for the Eocene Flora of Great Britain , and perhaps of the tertiary forma-

