An Account of a small Lobe of the human prostate Gland , which has not before been taken notice of by Anatomists .
By Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read February 20 , 1806 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1806 , p. 195 .
] The subject of this paper is a portion of a gland which , from the smallness of its size , and the obscurity of its situation , has hitherto escaped observation ; and were it not for the change produced in it by disease , which sometimes enlarges it so much that it shuts up the urinary canal , it would , Mr. Home says , be little deserving of attention .
It is well known that the prostate gland is , in the latter periods of life , liable to enlarge ; in that case there is frequently a nipplelike projection , which forms tumours , of different sizes , in the cavity of the bladder .
These tumours have engaged the attention of -surgeons from the time of Morgagni to the present day ; but the peculiarities in the natural conformation of the gland which dispose it to form these tumours , have never been examined .
After stating the observations of Morgagni and of the late Mr. John Hunter upon the subject , Mr. Home says that his attention was directed to it by the examination of the prostate gland of an elderly person , who had died in consequence of this part having been diseased .
The nipple-like process was very prominent , and a bridle nearly a quarter of an inch in breadth extended from the middle line of the tumour to the bulb of the urethra , where it insensibly disappeared .
The usual rounded projection of the caput gallinaginis was not visible ; and the space between the tumour in the bladder and the bulb of the urethra was unusually short ; so that the bridle , which had evidently been formed by the membrane of the bladder adhering to that part of the prostate gland of which the tumour was composed , appeared to have drawn the bulb towards the tumour , and to have shortened the membranous part of the canal .
The above appearance of a bridle is more or less met with in all cases in which the nipple-like process occurs ; but in so small a degree , that Mr. Home had not before been led to pay attention to it .
He now thought it right to examine the prostate gland in its natural state , in order to ascertain whether any part of it is sufficiently detached to move independently of the rest of the gland ; and as his professional avocations did not allow him sufficient time to make the requisite dissections , he committed that task to Mr. Brodie , demonstrator of anatomy to Mr. Wilson of Windmill-street .
In conse ' quence of Mr. Brodie 's accurate examination of the part , a small rounded substance was discovered in the space between the two posterior portions of the gland : this substance was so much detached , that it seemed a distinct gland ; and it so nearly resembled Cowper 's gland in size and shape , that it appeared to be a gland of the same kind .
It could not , however , be satisfactorily detached from the prostate gland , nor could any distinct duct be found leading from it into the bladder .
A similar examination of the part was made in five different subjects .
The appearance was not exactly the same in any two of them ; but our limits will not allow us to describe particularly the differences that were observed ; we shall therefore only say , that the most distinct appearance of the part was found in a healthy subject of twenty-five years of age .
In this subject the prominent body was imbedded , not only between the vasa deferentia and the bladder , but also , in some measure , between the lateral portions of the prostate gland and the bladder .
It was evidently a lobe of the prostate gland ; and its ducts passed directly through the coats of the bladder , and opened immediately behind the verumontanum .
A still more distinct appearance of this lobe was afterwards found in a subject twenty-four years of age ; a representation of which accompanies this paper .
This newly acquired anatomical fact enables us , Mr. Home says , to understand the nature of a disease , of which we could not have a clear idea while we were ignorant of the existence of the part in which it originates : it also enables us to explain various circumstances respecting the disease , particularly what to our author has ever appeared the greatest difficulty , namely , the protrusion of the tumour into the cavity of the bladder .
This protrusion arises from the hard substance of the coats of the vasa deferentia being in close contact , and bound down upon the lobe ; so that , from its first enlargement , it must press up the thin coats of the bladder .
The situation of this lobe , and its connexion with the vasa deferentia , also render it liable to many causes of swelling , from which the body of the gland is free ; since every irritation of the seminal vessels , or of their orifices , may be communicated to it by continuity of parts .
There is much reason , our author says , to believe that the diseased state of the lateral parts of the gland , so common in the later periods of life , has its origin in the lobe here described ; for , in most of the cases examined by him , this lobe has been enlarged in a much greater degree , in proportion to its size , than any other part of the gland ; and the difficulty in passing the urine , which comes on very early in the disease , is , Mr. Home thinks , owing to the enlargement of this lobe ; since an enlargement of the lateral portions of the gland widens the canal instead of diminishing it .
The enlargement of the lobe also occasions the bladder to retain a considerable part of the urine ; and as the urine passes in a stream , and the quantity voided is sufficient , no suspicion is entertained of the cause of the frequency and distress in passing it ; but they are referred to an irritable state of the coats of the bladder .
From the above observations it appears that the small lobe of the prostate gland here treated of is , from its situation and the circumstances in which it is placed , more liable to become diseased than any other part of the gland ; and that it produces symptoms of danger and distress which .
are peculiar to itself , but which have been hitherto supposed to arise from the body of the gland becoming enlarged .

