On Thermophones .
By P. de Lange .
( Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. Received December 3 , 1914 .
) The invention which I desire to communicate to the Royal Society ( and of which I have already , with the permission of your President , demonstrated the models at your informal gathering on the evening of October 29 ) has been made by me in co-operation with my friend Otto Fischer , Some of the models have been made in the laboratory of the University of Utrecht by the assistant , Mr. Stellema , under the supervision of my cousin , Prof. Zwaarde-maker , who was so kind as to introduce me to Lord Rayleigh .
I have been demonstrating with these models for over six months , and they do not show the slightest wear .
The origin of the thermophones may be traced back to the invention made 34 years ago by your late Fellow , the former engineer-in-chief to the Post Office , Sir William Preece.* Sir William Preece attached a stretched wire to a diaphragm which , by extending and contracting , owing to the changes in an electric current passing through it , moved the diaphragm , and thereby made it speak .
The great difference between his invention and that of the thermophone lies in the mechanical action of the wire on the diaphragm , the latter being dispensed with in the thermophone , the action of which simply and solely rests upon a change of temperature in a wire unconnected with any mechanical contrivance .
In the thermophone the wire speaks without a diaphragm , and the basis of this invention has been laid by Mr. Gwozdz .
About seven years ago , the Russian engineer , Gwozdz , made various experiments in a small village in the neighbourhood of Lodz , in Poland , with a thermophone without a diaphragm and without an electromagnet .
Gwozdz fixed a Wollaston wire on an insulating medium , and then treated the Wollaston wire with acid .
He obtained thereby a good thermophone , but ( as far as I know ) it was impossible by this process to obtain instruments which conveyed the required volume of sound , and Gwozdz never succeeded in rendering the thermophone of any practical utility .
Curiously enough , at the same time , Prof. Abraham , of Paris , made some experiments with a thin platinum wire which he connected with electrodes in a straight line , and then again with a transmitter .
These experiments also did not meet with a practical result , because the stretched wire had no * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 30 , p. 408 .
Mr. P. de Lange .
freedom , and thereby was exposed to too great a danger of breaking by the alternate extensions and retractions .
With my invention I follow the process of Gwozdz regarding the treatment of the Wollaston wire , hut I claim that my invention is of the greatest practical value , and this I will now explain .
By fixing a platinum wire of a diameter of from 2 to 12 microns in a gothic curve , I claim to have succeeded in making the thermophone of practical everyday use , because the silver of the Wollaston wire is eliminated , whilst the whole Wollaston wire is freely suspended in the acid in such a way that at any time such part of the platinum wire can be set free , as is considered desirable , without it being liable to breakage .
Thermophones have value only if they have been made on this basis .
In order to know something more about the working of the thermophone , Prof. Zwaardemaker and myself have measured the volume of the sound with Lord Kayleigh 's well-known mirror .
In order to avoid currents of air which might originate through the heating of the wire , we placed a glass diaphragm in a wooden or aluminium frame between the wire and the mirror .
The size of the diaphragm was about the same as that of a diaphragm of the phonograph .
Moreover , we placed a small tube in the cover of the diaphragm in order to prevent the system from working as an air thermometer .
The result of our measurement was that the sound increased with the increased number of platinum wires , but not in the same ratio .
Also thin wires of 2 microns have a greater acoustic effect than wires of 5 microns , the Joule heat remaining the same .
Everything depends upon the exact relationship between the telephone and the microphone .
The thermophone , listened to in the open air , sounds extremely weak .
As soon , however , -as the platinum wire is placed under a cover which has a small opening or several small openings , the sound at once becomes clear and distinct .
The volume of the sound increases in accordance with the decrease of the size of the cover .
Evidently the cover functions as a resonator .
It is a telephonic advantage to make the cover as small as possible , because in that case the high notes and the sound consonants produce a better effect .
The size of the openings in small covers should not be made too large , because in that case the resonance becomes too high and produces a curious sound in addition to the human voice .
I am trying to find an explanation for this most curious phenomenon , but that is a matter which may be the subject of a future communication to this Society .
The maximum admissible size of the cover appears to vary between comparatively speaking wide limits .
The size which approximately agrees with the size of the human ear funnel seems to be the most suitable .
Metal On Thermophones .
covers are better than those of ebonite , and , by surrounding these with some cooling substance , the acoustic effect\#151 ; if measured with Lord Rayleigh 's mirror\#151 ; becomes twice as great .
In this case the sound is conducted through a rubber tube of small width .
It is quite possible to combine a number of these thermophones , but then it should not be forgotten that the whole space occupied by them should remain as small as possible , because the space which they take up together also acts as a resonator .
The acoustic effect appears to increase at least in about the square of the strength of the current .
Thermophones with four rows next to each other , each of six platinum wires of 7 microns with a combined resistance of 35 ohms give\#151 ; measured with Lord Rayleigh 's mirror\#151 ; the following results , viz.:\#151 ; In the case of 6 volts , 2\ degrees .
99 Q 99 1^ 99 ,9 10 " 25 " It is difficult from these items to construct the theory of the thermophone .
The most I can say is that the decrease and increase of heat in the platinum wire of the telephone takes place isochronically with the vibrations in the microphone .
The air surrounding the platinum wire is thereby immediately heated or cooled in accordance with the increase and decrease of heat in the wire , and , if that air is retained within a closed compass of the cover , the expansions and retractions will be noticed as sound .

