340 Lord Rayleigh .
On an Anomaly encountered [ Apr. 19 April 19 , 1894 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
Professor Dewar made an oral communication stating that he had observed that many bodies cooled to between \#151 ; 180 ' C. and \#151 ; 200 ' C. after stimulation by light become remarkably phosphorescent , not only in increased intensity , but in duration , and that liquid oxygen itself always shows faint but distinct phosphorescence .
He stated that the details of experiments would be shortly communicated to the Society .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; L " On an Anomaly encountered in Determinations of the Density of Nitrogen Gas .
" By Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received February 16 , 1894 .
In a former communication* I have described how nitrogen , prepared by Lupton 's method , proved to be lighter by about 1/ 1000 part than that derived from air in the usual manner .
In both cases a red hot tube containing copper is employed , but with this difference .
In the latter method the atmospheric oxygen is removed by oxidation of the copper itself , while in Lupton 's method it combines with the hydrogen of ammonia , through which the air is caused to pass on its way to the furnace , the copper remaining unaltered .
In order to exaggerate the effect , the air was subsequently replaced by oxygen .
Under these conditions the whole , instead of only about one-seventh part of the nitrogen is derived from ammonia , and the discrepancy was found to be exalted to about one-half per cent. Upon the assumption that similar gas should be obtained by both f methods , we may explain the discrepancy by supposing either that the atmospheric nitrogen was too heavy on account of imperfect removal of oxygen , or that the ammonia nitrogen was too light on account of contamination with gases lighter than pure nitrogen .
In- * " On the Densities of the Principal Gases , " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 53 , p. 146 , 893 .
1894 .
] Determinations of the Density of Nitrogen Gas .
341 dependency of the fact that the action of the copper in the first case was pushed to great lengths , there are two arguments which appeared to exclude the supposition that oxygen was still present in the prepared gas .
One of these depends upon the large quantity of oxygen that would be required in view of the small difference between the weights of the two gases .
As much as l/ 30th part \lt ; \amp ; oxygen would be necessary to raise the density by 1/ 200 , or about one sixth of all the oxygen originally present .
This seemed to be out of the question .
But even if so high a degree of imperfection in the action of the copper could be admitted , the large alteration caused by the substitution of oxygen for air in Lupton 's process would remain unexplained .
Moreover , as has been described in the former paper , the introduction of hydrogen into the gas made no difference , such hydrogen being removed by the hot oxide of copper subsequently Traversed .
It is surely impossible that the supposed residual oxygen could have survived such treatment .
Another argument may be founded upon more recent results , presently to be given , from which it appears that almost exactly the same density is found when the oxygen of air is removed by hot iron .reduced with hydrogen , instea d of by copper , or in the cold by ferrous hydrate .
But the difficulties in the way of accepting the second alternative are hardly less formidable .
For the question at once arises , of what gas , lighter than nitrogen , does the contamination consist ?
In order that the reader may the better judge , it may be well to specify more fully what were the arrangements adopted .
The gas , whether air or oxygen , after passing through potash was charged with ammonia as it traversed a small wash-bottle , and thence proceeded to the furnace .
The first passage through the furnace was in a tube packed with metallic copper , in the form of fine wire .
Then followed a wash-bottle of sulphuric acid by which the greater part of the excess of ammonia would be arrested , and a second passage throug'h the furnace in a tube containing copper oxide .
The gas then traversed a long length of pumice charged with sulphuric acid , and a small wash-bottle containing Kessler solution .
On the other side of the regulating tap the arrangements were always as formerly described , and included tubes of finely divided potash and of phosphoric anhydride .
The rate of passage was usually about half a litre per hour .
Of the possible impurities , lighter than nitrogen , those most demanding consideration are hydrogen , ammonia , and water vapour .
The last may be dismissed at once , and the absence of ammonia is almost equally certain .
The question of hydrogen appears the most important .
But this gas , and hydrocarbons , such as CH4 , could they be present , should be burnt by the copper oxide ; and the experiments already referred to , in which hydrogen was purposely introduced 2 b 2 342 Lord Rayleigh .
On an Anomaly encountered in [ Apr. 19 into atmospheric nitrogen , seem to prove conclusively that the burning would really take place .
Some further experiments of the same kind will presently be given .
The gas from ammonia and oxygen was sometimes odourless , but at other times smelt strongly of nitrous fumes , and , after mixture with moist air , reddened litmus paper .
On one occasion the oxidation of the nitrogen went so far that the gas showed colour in the blow-off tube of the Toppler , although the thickness of the layer was only about half an inch .
But the presence of nitric oxide is , of course , no explanation of the abnormal lightness .
The conditions under which the oxidation takes place proved to be difficult of control , and it was thought desirable to examine nitrogen derived by reduction from nitric and nitrous oxides .
The former source was the first experimented upon .
The gas was evolved from copper and diluted nitric acid in the usual way , and , after passing through potash , was reduced by iron , copper not being sufficiently active , at least without a very high temperature .
The iron was prepared from blacksmith 's scale .
In order to get quit of carbon , it was first treated with a current of oxygen at a red heat , and afterwards reduced by hydrogen , the reduction being repeated after each employment .
The greater part of the work of reducing the gas was performed outside the furnace , in a tube heated locally with a .
Bunsen flame .
In the passage through the furnace in a tube containing similar iron the work would be completed , if necessary^ Next followed washing with sulphuric acid ( as required in the ammonia process ) , a second passage through the furnace over copper oxide , and further washing with sulphuric acid .
In order to obtain an indication of any unreduced nitric oxide , a wash-bottle containing ferrous sulphate was introduced , after which followed the Nessler test and drying tubes , as already described .
As thus arranged , the apparatus could be employed without alteration , whether the nitrogen to be collected was derived from air , from ammonia , fibm nitric oxide , from nitrous oxide , or from ammonium nitrite .
The numbers which follow are the weights of the gas contained by the globe at zero , at the pressure defined by the manometer when the temperature is 15 ' .
They are corrected for the errors in the weights , but not for the shrinkage of the globe when exhausted , and thus correspond to the number 2'31026 , as formerly given for nitrogen .
Nitrogen from NO by Hot Iron .
November 29 , 1893 December 2,1893. .
December 5,1893. .
December 6,1893. .
1894 .
] Determinations of the of Gas .
Nitrogen from N20 by Hot Iron.* December 26,1893 ... . .
December 28 , 1893 ... . .
2-29940 }Mean ' 2 29904 Nitrogen from Ammonium Nitrite passed over Hot Iron .
January 9 , 1894 .
January 13 , 1894 2-29889 }Mean'2'29869 With these are to be compared the weights of nitrogen derived from the atmosphere .
Nitrogen from Air by Hot Iron .
December 12 , 1893 ... ... 2-31017 -\gt ; \gt ; December 14 , 1893 ... ... 2-30986 ( H ) I December 19 , 1893 ... ... .
2 31010 ( H ) \gt ; Mean\gt ; 2'31003 December 22 , 1893 ... ... 2-31001 J Nitrogen from Air by Ferrous Hydrate .
January 27,1894 ... ... . .
2,31024'j January 30 , 3894 ... ... .
2'31010 \gt ; Mean , 2-31020 February 1 , 1894 ... ... 2-31028 J In the last case a large volume of air was confined for several hours in a glass reservoir with a mixture of slaked lime and ferrous sulphate .
The gas was displaced by deoxygenated water , and further purified by passage through a tube packed with a similar mixture .
The hot tubes were not used .
If we bring together the means for atmospheric nitrogen obtained by various methods , the agreement is seen to be good , and maybe regarded as inconsistent with the supposition of residual oxygen in quantity sufficient to influence the weights .
Atmospheric Nitrogen .
By hot copper , 1892 ... ... ... ... ... 2-31026 By hot iron , 1893 ... ... ... ... ... . .
2"31003 By ferrous hydrate , 1894 ... ... ... .
2"31020 Two of the results relating to hot iron , those of December 14 and December 19 , were obtained from nitrogen , into which hydrogen had been purposely introduced .
An electrolytic generator was inserted between the two tubes containing hot iron , as formerly described .
The generator worked under its own electromotive force , and the current was measured by a tangent galvanometer .
Thus , on December 19 , the deflection throughout the time of filling was 3 ' , repre-* The was prepared from zinc and very dilute nitric acid .
344 Prof. W. N. Hartley .
On Variations observed [ Apr. 19 } seating about 1/ 15 ampere .
In two hours and a half the hydrogen introduced into the gas would be about 70 c.c. , sufficient , if retained , to reduce the weight by about 4 per cent. The fact that there was no sensible reduction proves that the hydrogen was effectively removed by the copper oxide .
The nitrogen , obtained altogether in four ways from chemical compounds , is materially lighter than the above , the difference amounting to about 11 mg .
, or about 1/ 200 part of the whole .
It is also to he observed that the agreement of individual results is less close in the case of chemical nitrogen than of atmospheric nitrogen .
I have made some experiments to try whether the densities were influenced by exposing the gas to the silent electric discharge .
A Siemens tube , as used for generating ozone , was inserted in the path of the gas after desiccation with phosphoric anhydride .
The following were the results :\#151 ; The somewhat anomalous result of January 1 is partly explained by the failure to obtain a subsequent weighing of the globe empty , and there is no indication that any effect was produced by the electrification .
One more observation I will bring forward in conclusion .
Nitrogen prepared from oxygen and ammonia , and about one-half per cent , lighter than ordinary atmospheric nitrogen , was stored in the globe for eight months .
The globe was then connected to the apparatus , and the pressure was re-adjusted in the usual manner to the standard conditions .
On re-weighing no change was observed , so that the abnormally light nitrogen did not become dense by keeping .
II .
" On Variations observed in the Spectra of Carbon Electrodes , and on the Influence of one Substance on the Spectrum of another .
" By W. N. Hartley , E.R.S. , Royal College of Science , Dublin .
Received January 13 , 1894 .
In a recently published paper by Eder and Valenta , on the " Line Spectrum of Elementary Carbon and the Ultra-violet Spark Spectrum of Wet and Dry Wood Charcoal " ( Vienna , ' Akad .
Wiss .
Denk-schriften , ' vol. 60 , 1893 ) , there occurs this passage :\#151 ; Nitrogen from Air by Hot Iron , Electrified .
January 1 , 1894 ... ... .
January 4 , 1894 ... ... . .
Nitrogen from N20 by Hot Iron , Electrified .
January 2 , 1894 ... ... . .
January 5 , 1894 ... ... ... .

