" On Photographic Self-registering Meteorological and Magnetical Instruments .
" By Francis Ronalds , Esq. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. The apparatus employed by the author at the Kew Observatory , and which he terms the Photo-Electrograph , is described by him in the following words:- " A rectangular box , about sixteen inches long and three square , constitutes the part usually called the body of a kind of lucernal microscope .
A voltaic electrometer ( properly insulated , and in communication with an atmospheric conductor ) is suspended within the microscope , through an aperture in the upper side , and near to the object end .
That end itself is closed by a plane of glass , when daylight is used , and by condensing lenses , when a common Argand lamp is employed .
In either case an abundance of light is thrown into the microscope .
Between .
the electrometer and the ether , or eye-end of the microscope , fine achromatic lenses are placed , which have the double effect of condensing the light upon a little screen , situated at that eye-end , and of projecting a strong image of the electrometer , in deep oscuro , upon it .
Through the screen a very narrow slit , of proper curvature , is cut ( the chord of the arc being in a horizontal position ) , and it is fitted into the back of a case , about two-and-a-half feet long , which case is fixed to the eye-end of the microscope , at right angles with its axis , and vertically .
Within the case is suspended a frame , provided with a rabbit , into which two plates of pure thin glass can be dropped , and brought into close contact by means of six little bolts and nuts .
This frame can be removed at pleasure from a line , by which it is suspended , and the line , after passing through a small aperture ( stopped with grease ) cut through the upper end of the long case , is attached to a pulley ( about four inches in diameter ) , fixed , with capacity of adjustment , on the hour arbor of a good clock .
Lastly , counterpoises , iollers , springs , and a straight ruler are employed for ensuring accurate rectilineal sliding of the frame , when the clock is set in motion .
" A piece of properly prepared photographic paper is now placed between the two plates of glass in the moveable frame ; the frame is removed ( in a box made purposely for excluding light ) , and is suspended in the long case ; this is closed , so as to prevent the possibility of extraneous light entering with it ; the clock is started , and the time of starting is noted .
" All that part of the paper which is made to pass over the slit in the screen , by the motion of the clock , becomes now therefore successively exposed to a strong light , and is consequently brought into a state which fits it to receive a dark colour on being again washed with the usual solution , excepting those small portions upon which dark images of the lower parts of the pendulums of the electrometer are projected through the slit .
These small portions of course retain the light colour of the paper ; and from the long curved lines or bands , whose distances form each other , at any given part of the photograph , i. e. at any given time indicate the electric tension of the atmosphere at that time .
" c By certain additions to the instrument above described , the kind as well as the tension of electrical charge is capable of being registered ; and by the employment also of a horizontal thermometer , &amp;c. , it is adapted to the purposes of a Thermograph , as well as Photo-barometrograph and Magnetograph .

