1886 .
] Eclipse of the Sun in 1886 observed at .
469 lytic ferment which will convert fibrin into peptone and then into leucin and tyrosin .
2 .
This exists in the resting seed in the form a zymogen , which is easily convertible into the ferment .
3 .
The ferment acts best in a slightly acid medium ; its activity is hindered by neutral salts and destroyed by alkalis , and it is most active at a temperature of 40 ' C. 4 .
The process of germination is started or accompanied by a transformation of the zymogen into ferment on the absorption of water and the development of vegetable acids in the cells of the seed .
5 .
The ferment so developed converts the proteids of the resting seed into acid albumin or parapeptone , peptone , and crystalline amides .
6 .
The nitrogen travels from the cells of the seed to the growing points in the form of the latter bodies and not in that of peptone or other proteid .
VII .
" Preliminary Account of the Observations of the Eclipse of the Sun at Grenada in August , 1886 .
" By Captain Darwin , R.E. Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , Sec. R.S. Received November 25 , 1886 .
The instruments allotted to me consisted of the coronagraph and the prismatic camera ; the two instruments being mounted on the same equatorial stand .
The prismatic camera is the same instrument which was used at the eclipses of 1882 and 1884 .
It consists of an ordinary photographic camera with a 60 ' prism placed in front of the lens .
The coronagraph consists of a reflecting telescope arranged for obtaining photographic records , and in which special precautions are taken to avoid internally reflected light .
This instrument was designed by Dr. Huggins , with the idea that it might be possible to obtain photographs of the corona in sunlight , that is at other times than at eclipses , and I was especially directed to test the practicability of this method .
The test could be applied in two ways :\#151 ; 1st .
By obtaining photographs shortly before or after the eclipse , and comparing any irregularity that might appear in the halo round the sun with any photographs of the corona taken during totality ; a similarity of form indicating that the corona had been photographed .
2nd .
To take photographs during partial eclipse .
Then if the light of the corona produces any effect on the plate , the limb of the moon should be visible against it .
470 Eclipse of the Sun in 1886 observed at Grenada .
[ Dec. 16 , On the day before the eclipse I took a considerable number of photographs for the first test .
No similarity has yet been traced between the form of the corona as obtained on these plates , and the form of the true corona as obtained during the total eclipse .
During totality I had intended to carry out the following programme :\#151 ; During the first minute a photograph was to be taken with the prismatic camera .
After that four plates were to be exposed with the coronagraph with the same length of exposure as that given during sunlight .
The exposure was given automatically by means of a shutter , with an estimated length of between one-tenth and one-fifth of a second .
Besides these , two photographs were to be taken with exposures of five and ten seconds respectively .
The programme could not be carried out exactly .
Immediately after I had commenced exposing the prismatic camera , 1 looked up , and found that the corona was covered by a light cloud .
The sky became clear again in about fifty seconds .
I was anxious not to take any other photographs at the same time for fear of vibration ; but as nearly a minute had been lost something had to be sacrificed , and I decided to take some of the photographs with the coronagraph before putting the cap on the prismatic camera .
I do not think that the work has suffered in consequence , and at all events I obtained all the plates I had intended to .
As to the results , I am not yet in a position to fully report on them .
The photograph obtained with the prismatic camera shows several images of the prominences , and it therefore gives every promise of yielding good results when measured and examined .
The five and ten second photographs of the corona show signs of a slight vibration , but they will be useful for the inner part of the corona .
As my main object was to obtain instantaneous photographs , these long exposure plates had to be obtained by working the automatic shutter by hand ; it was this probably that caused the vibration .
The instantaneous photographs of the corona when developed were complete blanks , proving that the exposure was too short .
It should , however , be observed that this does not prove that the light of the corona was insufficient to cause an appreciable effect on the plate if combined with other light .
More light energy is necessary to start photographic action than is required to produce a visible difference of shade when once the action is started .
Mhny of the photographs taken during partial eclipse show what may be described as a false corona , that is , an increase of density near the sun and between the cusps , or in front of the moon .
In none of them can the moon be seen eclipsing the corona .
The results , therefore , are adverse to the possibility of obtaining photographs of the corona in sunlight ; it is , however , I consider by no means proved that the method is impossible .
But at present I am Presents .
1886 .
] inclined to Consider that the result tends to show that a practical method of obtaining photographic records of the corona during sunlight is not likely to be obtained .
The trial was not conclusive because the conditions were very unfavourable .
In order to reduce the air-glare to a minimum , so that the light of the corona shall not be overpowered , the following points must be observed :\#151 ; 1st .
The air should be clear and dry .
2nd .
The sun should be near the zenith .
3rd .
The station should be at a considerable elevation above the sea .
4th .
The corona , if it does vary in intensity , should be at its maximum brightness .
Now every one of these conditions was unfavourable .
The air was saturated with moisture , the sky was of a hazy blue , the sun was low , the station was near the sea-level , and the corona according to the general impression was not so bright as on other occasions .
I hope , however , to deal more fully with the considerations on another occasion .
The Society adjourned over the Christmas Recess to Thursday , January 6th , 1887 .
Presents , December 9 , 1886 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies from the Biological Laboratory .
Vol. III .
No. 8 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1886 .
The University .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Harvard College .
Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Vol. XII .
No. 6 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1836 .
The Museum .
Harvard University .
Bulletin .
Vol. IV .
No. 6 .
8vo .
1886 .
The University .
Frankfort:\#151 ; Naturforsohende Gesellschaft .
Abhandl ungen .
Band XIV .
Heft 1 .
4to .
Frankfurt 1886 .
The Society .
Leipzig:\#151 ; Konigl .
Sachs .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Ab-handlungen .
Band XIII .
Nos. 6-7 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1886 .
The Society .
Newcastle:\#151 ; Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers .
Transactions .
Vol. XXXV .
Part 3 .
8vo .
Newcastle 1886 .
The Institute .
New York:\#151 ; American Geographical Society .
Bulletin .
1882 , No. 6 ; 1883 , No. 7 ; 1884 , No. 5 ; 1886 , No. 1 .
8vo .
New York .
The Society .

