Description of a thermometrical Barometer for measuring Altitudes .
By the Rev. Francis John Hyde Wollaston , B.D. F.R.S. Read March 6 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 183 .
] The author 's attention having been drawn to the variations in the heat of boiling water , as corresponding with changes in atmospherical pressure and in the height of the barometer , he was led to construct the instrument described in the present paper , for the purpose of measuring heights with greater accuracy and convenience than by the common barometer , or by the methods formerly devised by Fahrenheit and Cavallo .
The author constructed his thermometer with different scales , from an uncertainty how far their sensibility might be carried ; and in one instance the bore of the tube was so minute , and the ball so large , that every degree on Fahrenheit 's scale was equal to ten inches .
the instrument , however , with which the greatest number of observations were made , had a scale of 3 98 inches to every degree , and each degree is divided into 100 parts upon the scale , and into 1000 by a vernier .
On comparing this thermometer with a good barometer , it was found that the two instruments agreed equally well in all parts between 30-68 inches and 28-23 inches .
The result was , that a difference of 10 of Fahrenheit 's scale is occasioned by 0-589 inch on the barometer ; 30-603 inches ( corrected ) on the barometer , =213 ?
-367 on the thermometer , and 28,191 inches barometer , =209 ?
0263 thermometer .
Having thus ascertained the delicacy and capability of the instrument , the author proceeds to describe the best mode of constructing it , which is further illustrated by an annexed drawing .
To the vernier is attached a small lens of an inch focus , which , on account of the smallness of the bore of the tube , is useful in observing the height of the mercurial thread , and by having no lateral motion , confines the view to the same direction , thus preventing parallax .
The boiler of this instrument is a tin cylinder 5 ?
5 inches deep , and 1*2 inches in diameter , with an external cylinder 14 inch diameter , for preventing the transmission of heat .
The bottom is single , and the bulb does not dip into the water , but is exposed to the steam only ; and a bell-tent protects the lamp and boiler from the wind .
The lamp is filled with oil , to which a sufficient quantity of tallow is added to make it congeal at common temperatures .
Having tried threads of various thicknesses , the author advises the scale of an inch to a degree as best adapted to all ordinary purposes ; for when finer than this , it is almost impossible to give such strength to the bulb as to force the columrn of mercury accurately to the same height on repetition of the boiling , by reason of the resistance from friction in the tube .
With an inch scale , the variations of the barometrical thermometer are to those of the common barometer as 5:3 ; and the sensibility of the instrument is such , that the difference of temperature required to make water boil arising from the height of a common table , is immediately perceptible .
After stating the methods for adjusting this thermometer for the measurement of the greatest heights , the author details some experiments upon altitudes made with an instrument , 552 parts upon the scale of which were equal to 530 feet in altitude .
With this instrument boiled on the counter of a bookseller 's shop in Paternoster-row , estimated between four and five feet above the foot pavement on the north side of St. Paul 's Churchyard , and boiled again in the gilt gallery of the cathedral , there was a difference of 254 parts ; the corrected height thus indicated therefore = 272 64 feet .
General Roy makes the gallery above the north pavement to be 281 feet , which , allowing five feet for the difference of station , brings the author 's estimate to 267 feet , differing only four feet ; or by another calculation , founded on General Roy 's statement , the difference is less than two feet .

