76 Lord Rayleigh .
Electromagnetic Rotation [ Jan. 15 , 2 .
This residue , which when washed and dried is obtainable in a white amorphous condition , is insoluble in weak acids ; but in concentrated mineral acids it is soluble in the cold .
3 .
On boiling the solution in sulphuric acid , a body which has the power of reducing cupric salts is formed .
4 .
On boiling the solution in hydrochloric acid it turns brown , and on evaporating this solution to dryness a body crystallises out which has all the properties of hydrochlorate of glycosamine .
I prepared some of this body from the chitin contained in the exoskeleton of cockroaches , and also obtained from .
Professor Lan-kester some crystals of the same body which Professor Gamgee had kindly sent him .
I was thus enabled to compare the crystalline body I had obtained from the invertebrate cartilage with that of the pure hydrochlorate of glycosamine , and they were found to agree in the following points :\#151 ; - a. Crystalline form : rhombic prisms of the monoclinic system ; measurement of the angles gave the same result in all cases .
b. Action of polarised light : nil .
c. Solubilities : easily soluble in water , soluble with difficulty in alcohol .
These results are especially interesting as showing that chitin is not a body which is exclusively epiblastic in origin , but in these three instances at least occurs in mesoblastic structures .
II .
" On the Constant of Electromagnetic Rotation of Light in Bisulphide of Carbon .
" By Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received December 29 , 1884 .
( Abstract .
) A complete account is here given of the experiments briefly referred to in the Preliminary Note , * and of others on the same plan of more recent date .
As regards the method , it may be sufficient to add to what was there said , that the electric currents were estimated by comparing the difference of potential generated by the current in traversing a known resistance with that of a standard Clark cell , the value of the cell being known by converse operations , in which the current was measured by a special electromagnetic apparatus.f Allowance * " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " vol. 37 , p. 146 , June , 1884 .
+ " On the Electrochemical Equivalent of Silver , and on the Absolute Electromotive Force of Clark Cells .
" " Proc. Hoy .
Soc. , " vol. 37 , p. 142 , June , 1884 .
J 1885 .
] Absorption-spectra Thermograms .
77 being made for temperature , the determination of the currents by this method was abundantly accurate and very simple .
The results are grouped in three series , of which the first two were considered in the Preliminary Note .
In both of them the same tube was used , the principal difference being that in the first the light traversed the tube three times , and in the second but once .
In the third series another tube was employed , and some improvements in respect to thermal insulation were introduced .
The readings were taken with a double image prism in place of the ordinary analysing nicol , a substitution by which it is believed some advantages were obtained .
From the fifteen sets of observations of Series I , we find as the rotation of sodium light in bisulphide of carbon at 18 ' corresponding to a difference of potential equal to unity C.G.S. the value *04208 minute .
From the four observations of Series II we get in like manner *04198 minute , and from the seven observations of Series III *04202 minute .
The last value is adopted as the most probable .
In an appendix some remarks are made upon polarimetry in general , especially in relation to the half-shade method .
A device proposed by M. Becquerel for augmenting the precision with which rotations can be determined with the aid of a half-wave plate is .
considered , and the conclusion is arrived at that no advantage can thus be obtained .
III .
" Absorption-spectra Thermograms .
" By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. , and Colonel Festing , R.E. Received December 31 , 1884 .
When employing a grating for visual work , the choice of a medium which shall absorb the overlapping parts of orders of the spectrum other than that under examination is a comparatively simple affair .
When working photographically , however , it becomes necessary to know what invisible rays the medium will cut off .
For instance , in investigations in the infra-red of the spectrum , we have found it necessary to ascertain whether media which absorb the blue and allow the red rays to pass would also transmit the above-mentioned parts of the spectrum .
Photography would seem to be the simplest method of experimenting in this direction ; but the results not being quantitative , as are those obtained by a thermopile , we found it better to work with that instrument .
It should be remembered that we were dealing with the infra-red part of the spectrum , in which the energy is so great as to be well shown by the thermopile ; in the more refrangible part the indications

