II .
" Description of a Hand Spectrum-Telescope .
" By WILLIAM HUGGINS , F.R.S. Received December 19 , 1867 .
The instrument described in this paper was contrived in the summer of 1866 , for the purpose of observing the spectra of meteors and their trains .
The special suitability of this apparatus , as a hand-spectroscope , for the examination of the spectra of the lights which may be seen about the sun during the total solar eclipse of next year , induces me to offer a description of it to the Royal Society .
The apparatus consists essentially of a direct-vision prism placed in front of a small achromatic telescope .
The achromatic object-glass marked a is 12 inch in diameter , and has a focal length of about 10 inches .
The eyepiece ( b ) consists of two plano-convex lenses .
As a large field of view is of great importance , especially for its use as a meteor-spectroscope , the field-lens is made of nearly the same diameter as the object-glass .
The imperfect definition at the margin of the field is not of much practical importance , as the spectra can be brought for examination into the centre of the field .
The fieldlens is fixed in a sliding tube , which permits the distance between the two lenses of the eyepiece to be altered ; in this way the magnifying-power of the instrument may be varied within certain limits at pleasure .
Before the object-glass is fixed a direct-vision prism ( c ) , consisting of one prism of dense flint glass , and two prisms of crown glass .
The field of view of my apparatus embraces an area of sky of about 7 ?
in diameter .
The spectrum of a bright star has an apparent length of nearly 3 ? .
The spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion appears as two bright lines , one of them broad , crossed by a faint continuous spectrum .
The magnifying-power of the telescope is insufficient to show the three distinct lines of which the spectrum of the nebula consists .
The continuous spectrum is due to the stars of the trapezium , and the other fainter stars scattered over the nebula .
For the purpose of testing the efficiency of this instrument as a meteorspectroscope , I observed the spectra of fireworks seen from a distance of about three miles .
The bright lines of the metals contained in the fireworks were seen with great distinctness .
I was able to recognize sodium , magnesium , strontium , copper , and some other metals .
Unfortunately I was prevented from making the use of the instrument which I had intended at the display of meteors in November 1866 .
I have , however , great confidence in the suitability of the apparatus for the prismatic observation of meteors and their trains .
As the instrument is not provided with a slit , it is applicable only to bright objects of small size , or to objects so distant as to subtend but a very small angle .
It is obvious that if the object has a diameter smaller in one direction than in any other , as would usually be the case with the trains of meteors , the instrument should be rotated to take advantage of the form of the object .
The most favourable position will be when the smallest diameter of the object is perpendicular to the height of the prisms .
In this way I have seen the lines of Fraunhofer in the spectrum of the moon when a very narrow crescent .
In the case of objects which appear as points , a small breadth may be given to the spectrum by a cylindrical lens fitted in a little cap which slips over the eye-lens , and is placed next to the eye .
As some of the advantages which this instrument possesses over an ordinary spectroscope , or over a prism held before the eye , may be stated the comparatively large amount of light which the object-glass collects , the great facility for instantly pointing the instrument to the object desired , which the large field of view affords , and in some cases the magnifying-power of the instrument .
It may perhaps be mentioned that secret signals might be conveyed at night by means of the temporary introduction of certain suitable substances , as preparations of lithium , copper , strontiumz , &amp;c. , into the flame of a lamp giving a continuous spectrum ; the presence of the bright lines due to these substances would not be perceived except by an observer provided with a spectrum-telescope , to whom they might convey information in accordance with a previous arrangement .
This little instrument , held in the hand and directed to the place of the sun during its eclipse in 1868 , might enable an observer , who was not provided with larger apparatus , to give an answer to the important question whether the bright prominences are self-luminous or reflect solar light .
At least it would be possible for him to determine the general character of the spectrum of a bright prominence so far as to learn whether it is continuous or consists of bright lines .
On account of the low magnifying-power of the instrument , the red prominence would appear sufficiently small to permit of bright lines being distinguished on its spectrum , if such should exist .
The instrument should be previously focused by the observer on the moon , or some distant object .
Should a portion of the sun 's limb be visible , the instrument must be rotated until the spectrum of the little projecting prominence appears in a direction parallel to that of the spectrum of the sun 's limb , and is not overlapped by it .
Perhaps a diaphragm across the field of view and cutting off about one-third of it would be an advantage , as the spectrum of the sun 's limb might be concealed behind it .
The eye , relieved in this way from the bright solar spectrum , would be in a more favourable state to examine the fainter spectrum of the red prominence .
Four of these instruments , made by Mr. Browning , have been sent out by the Royal Society to India , to be placed in the hands of observers stationed at different places along the central line of the eclipse .
This instrument would be specially suitable for use at sea .
Postscript.--Mr .
Browning has recently suggested a method of diminishing the apparent velocity of meteors by the use of a concave cylindrical lens placed with its axis perpendicular to the direction of their motion .
This mode of observing may be applied to the spectrum-telescope by substituting , when required , a plano-convex cylindrical lens for the eye-lens of the eyepiece .
If this lens be placed with its axis parallel to the height of the compound prism before the object-glass , and if the telescope be held in a position such that the direction in which the light of the meteor is dispersed is perpendicular to that of its motion , the spectrum of the meteor will be magnified , as when the ordinary eye-lens is employed , but the apparent velocity of the meteor will be less by an amount equal to the magnifying-power of the eye-lens .

