VIII .
Account of a Book , entitled , Adversariorum Anatomico Medico Chirurgicorum Decas tertia .
Auctore Frederico Ruysch , M. D. Anatom .
&amp; Botan. Prof. Amstel .
R. S. Soc. ~ I. THE learned Author , who has so long improved the World by his curious Searches into the nicest Secrets of the Animal-Machine , and illustrated them by his admirable Preparations , gives an Account of preternatural Things found in Tumors , of that Sort which we call Atheroma , ordinarily a Cyst filled with a thick Matter like Pult ; such are Bones , Flesh , Hair , Teeth , and other Things very surprising and unaccountable .
He tells us , he first found out the Fabric of the cortical Part of the Brain ; that it is made of small pulpy Canals from the Ends of the Arteries : That many Years ago he drew , by simple Distillation , from crude Vegetables , a perfect volatile Salt ; and that it is easily done from fresh Seeds of the hot antiscorbutic Herbs , such as Mustard , Rocket , Onions , &amp;c. ~ II .
He dissects a Pear , which he says is entirely composed of the Pipes in the Stalk , dilated into a soft and moist Pulp , like what they antiently called the Parenchyma , that composes the Liver and Spleen , which he affirms to be pure Vessels , not Glands distinguished by being invelop 'd with one proper Membrane .
You may , if you please , call the Pear , the Liver and the Spleen , taken in the whole , a Gland ; but he denies any particular Glands in their Composition .
~ III .
He tells a remarkable Story of a Girl , who had frequent Eruptions of Blood from the Skin of her Head , Ears , Mouth , Navel , and the Nipples of her Breast : For fourteen Weeks she eat no Meat , nor had any Excretion by Siege or Urine ; and many other odd Symptoms .
~ IV .
He gives us a pretty Observation of the Cicatricula , as commonly called , in the Ovaria of Females , whence the impregnated Egg is dropped into the Falloppian Tubes .
He shows , that in reality it is a Calyx , or natural Aperture , which enlarges itself for that Purpose by Degrees , and after Exclusion closes again , as the Os Uteri afterwards ; so that the Egg truly drops from it , as an Acorn when ripe from its Cup ; and the Trace of it soon becomes imperceptible .
He says farther , he has frequently seen the thick Part of the Male Sperm carried up even into the Falloppian Tubes upon Impregnation .
~ V. He speaks of an Obstruction , that has sometimes happened in the Intestines of new-born Infants , so that they have had no Manner of Passage by Stools , and that gentle Lenitives have not been able to relieve them : In this case , he advises strong Purgers , adapted to their tender Age .
~ VI .
The Author informs us of wonderful Appearances within the very Center of human Bones ; for in eight several Preparations he has , of Leg and Thigh Bones , and others , of Men and Infants , he has observed plain Chrysalis 's of Insects , and very perfect , of different Sorts , lodged in the Cavities of the Marrow : How they come there , he can no more account for , than for whole Rundles of Worms twisted together , which he has found in the great Artery just by the Heart ; or for six fat , thick Erucae in a Sheep 's Brain ; and many of the like Nature , that have happened in the Way of his Observation , which are in the Czar 's Repository .
In ~ VII .
he says , very often , upon Dissection of the Bodies of old Women , he has found the mesenteric Glands , that minister to the Conveyance of the Chyle , perfectly wasted away ; so that he judges it not improbable , that , in such Cases , the mesaraic Vessels absorb the Chyle from the Guts , and carry it into the Blood , at least in part , according to the Notion of the Ancients , who knew not the lacteal Vessels : This he thinks not a little confirmed by the like wasting of the glandular Part of the Breasts in old Women , which though formerly very large , shall have nothing but the Nipples left .
~ VIII .
He treats of the Epidermis , or Scarf-Skin , with a good Method of separating it for public Demonstrations : He takes off a Piece of the whole Skin , and nails it upon a Board with the Outside uppermost , and then puts it into boiling Water , which raises it so , that with a blunt Knife it is easily separable , which is a much better Way , than that of burning or blistering .
He says , the different Colours of the Skin are owing to the Corpus Reticulare , which in Blackmoors is perfectly black , in Moors of a tawny Colour , in white People perfectly white .
The Epidermis is ever found absolutely void of Blood-Vessels : upon which occasion the Author offers to lay Two Guineas with Mr. St. Andre , who , he says , falsely asserts he has Preparations showing these Vessels , and has pretended to show them to some of his Countrymen the Dutch .
He adds , that he guesses the Occasion of his Mistake to be thus : The Skin of new-born Infants , in some certain Places , if it be carefully separated from all Fat , is so fine and thin , that it becomes like the Epidermis in Adults .
This no doubt is extremely full of Vessels , and is what he has imagined to impose upon Mr. St. Andre .
~ IX .
He treats of human Bones , in which Search he has long laboured : He observes the Epiphyses up2 on on the Ends of the Bones are chiefly fastened to them by the Periosteum ; which being taken off , they easily fall asunder .
It is a Mistake , that we vulgarly think this is done by means of an intermediate Cartilage : The Truth is , both the Epiphyses and Ends of the Bones , at first , are cartilaginous ; but in Time become bony , and then are only joined by the Periosteum .
The Ossification always begins in the middle of Bones .
Sometimes he has found human Bones so void of Cavities , that he has made Knife-Handles of them : It has been thought that cartilaginous Parts were exsanguious ; but falsely , as he demonstrates by several Preparations thereof .
~ X. He considers the Papillae of the nervose Tunic in the Inside of the Stomach , and finds that the Figure of them is roundish , in that Part of the Stomach over which the Spleen is fixed ; but longish in other Parts thereof , and in the Inside of the Jejunum .
He takes Notice , that the Fabric of the Womb is made of much the same Sort of thick muscular Fibres as the Bladder , both to facilitate their proper Exclusion ; particularly these Fibres are more remarkable upon the Fundus Uteri , to which Part the Placenta most generally fastens its self , and most evidently for this Reason .

