The Hon. Commanderde Roos 's paper was resumed and concluded .
The author , who had the command of His Majesty 's ship Algerine , was instructed to take charge of the enterprise commenced by the officers and crew of His Majesty 's ship Lightning , having for its object the recovery of the treasure and stores from the wreck of the Thetis , which , in the month of December 1830 , had sunk in a cove to the south-east of Cape Frio .
He reached this spot on the 6th of March , 1832 , having with him eleven officers and eighty-five men .
A certain number of men were appointed to remain on board the ship , which was moored in a harbour two miles off ; a party of artificers and others were employed at the huts which they inhabited near the Cape ; and the rest , nearly thirty-five in number , were stationed at the wreck .
The author gives a description of Cape Frio , and of the island of which it forms the south-eastern extremity ?
and which is an immense promontory of insulated granite jutting into the Atlantic Ocean , sixty miles east of Rio de Janeiro .
The cove , in the middle of which the wreck of the Thetis lay , is a square indenture in the cliffs , six hundred feet deep by as many wide .
It is surrounded by nearly perpendicular masses of granite , from one hundred to two hundred feet high , and is exposed to the whole swell of the South Atlantic , which sets in with remarkable force in that direction .
The weather is singularly variable ; and transitions frequently take place in the course of a few hours , from perfect stillness to the most tremendous swell .
The author states that he has witnessed few scenes in nature more sublime than that presented by the Thetis Cove during a gale of wind from the south-west .
2(7 The author enters into a minute description of the mechanical ap ?
paratus employed forobtaining the necessary purchases for the various operations which were required , and gives a circumstantial history of his proceedings .
Frequent interruptions were experienced from the state of the weather , and the almost incessant agitation of the water , which was often so powerful as to render the diving-bell unmanageable , and to expose the divers to serious danger .
The diving-bell consisted of a one-ton ship 's water-tank , with eight inches of iron riveted to the bottom in order to give it more depth , and having at ?
tached to it 18 pigs of ballast , the weight of which ( 1/ cwt .
) was found to be sufficient to sink it .
As soon as the necessary arrangements had been completed , the author states that he made a minute survey of the bottom , by means of the diving-bell , and ascertained the exact position and shape of all the large rocks which covered the spot where the treasures and stores of the Thetis had been scattered .
The shape of the area where the precious metals in particular had been deposited , was an ellipse , of which the two principal axes measured 48 and 31 feet ; and lorge boulders of granite had been subsequently rolled over these treasures , and required being removed before the latter could be recovered .
The superincumbent pressure of the sea , aided by the huge materials of the wreck of the frigate , which , under the influence of the swell , acting like a paviour\s hammer , with enormous momentum , had jammed to ?
gether the rocks , and produced a strong cohesion between the frag ?
ments of wood , and the gold , silver and iron .
The first object was to clear away every portion of the wreck - , and after this had been accomplished , to loosen and remove all the large rocks in succession , beginning with the smallest , and ending with the largest and most unwieldy .
Some of these , which they succeeded in rolling from their situations into deeper water , weighed about thirty or forty tons ; and the largest , which required the greatest efforts to move from its place , was computed to weigh sixty-three tons .
This last effort served to show , that no part , either of the wreck or the stores , which was of any value , remained behind j and after fifteensixteenths of the property had been recovered , the enterprise , which had so perfectly succeeded , terminated on the 24th of July , and the Algerine returned to Rio de Janeiro on the Ist of August .
The author subjoins an account of the currents off Cape Frio , and a description of the climate , which seems to have been favourable , for his party suffered but little from sickness , and the expedition was unattended with the loss of a single life .
On one occasion the party were visited by a whale , which approached very near the diving-bell , but fortunately changed its course , without doing any mischief .

