446 Hon. E , J. Strutt .
On the Least Potential Difference to exealation of vertebrae between the pelvis and head region of M. Icevis is shown in such facts as the following :\#151 ; ( a ) The great amount of both excalation and intercalation which must be going on in different regions of the animal on such a hypothesis .
( b ) In some cases the girdle-piercing nerve may pass partly over and partly through the girdle , not showihg that rigidity which on the excalation theory we should be led to expect .
( c ) The serial number of the girdle-piercing nerve may be different on the two sides of the same individual .
On the hypothesis of migration such facts receive an easy explanation , which is also in accordance with the existence of a greater caudal extension of the area of innervation of the pelvic fin in the males of M. Icevis than the females , and in the great amount of variability in M. Icevis , which species we suppose to have been derived from a more stable form such as M vulgaris by a rostral migration of the pelvic girdle .
Hence migration being rendered very probable on other grounds , the posterior collector must be supposed to be formed as a direct result of that migration , and its undoubted connection with the shifting of the fin along the vertebral column is of great importance in explaining the formation of the anterior nervus collector .
" On the Least Potential Difference required to produce Discharge through various Gases .
" By the Hon. K. J. Strutt , B.A. , Scholar of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.B.S. Received October 17 , \#151 ; Read November 16 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The investigation , of which an account is given in this paper , deals with the potential difference required to produce sparks m various gases , between large parallel planes at a fixed distance apart , and at various pressures .
, .
, , , It was found*by Mr. Peace* that the striking potential between two parallel plates in air diminished as the pressure diminished , till a certain point was reached , and then began to rise very rapidly The pressure at which the striking potential was a minimum , depended on the distance between the plates , and increased as the distance was lessened .
The minimum potential itself , however , vary vei y i e with the distance between the plates . .
, f , , This minimum potential was of the same order as the cathode fall * 6 Roy .
Soc. Proe .
, ' vol. 52 , p. 99 .
required to produce Discharge through various Gases .
of potential in air , as has been pointed out by Professor J. J. Thomson * The following explanation may be offered of the fact that there is this minimum striking potential , and that it is approximately con8t The negative glow in any gas , as has been shown by AVarburg , t requires for its production a definite difference of potential ( about 340 volts in the case of air ) independent of the pressure and constant , so long as the glow is not crushed into a smaller space than that which it would naturally occupy .
If the glow is crushed , the necessary potential is greater .
Let us now suppose that the discharge takes place between two parallel plates .
A part of the space between these plates is occupied by the negative glow , a part by the positive column .
So long as any of the positive column remains , it is clear that the negative glow is not constricted , and consequently it only requires 340 volts to produce it .
The greater the length of the positive column , the greater the corresponding potential difference , so that the striking potential will be the least possible when the pressure is low enough to make the negative glow occupy the whole space between the plates , but not low enough to make it require more . . .
My experiments have been undertaken with a view to obtaining further experimental evidence on these ideas .
The sparks were taken between large metal plates , f mm. apart .
For details of the apparatus and method of experimenting , the original paper must be consulted .
There also will be found curves showing the relation between spark potential and pressure for the following gases : atmospheric air , hydrogen , nitrogen , helium .
\#166 ; ' v1 .
t , I give here only the minimum value of the spark potential toun for each , together with the cathode fall of potential given by Warburg:\#151 ; Nature of gas .
Cathode fall . .
Miuimum spark potential .
Atmospheric air Hydrogen Ordinary nitrogen . .
... . .
Nitrogen specially freed from all traces of oxygen Helium volts .
340\#151 ; 350 300 Variable , 315\#151 ; 340 230 226 volts .
341 302 , 308 347 , 351 , 369 , 388 251 Variable , 326\#151 ; 261 It will be seen that on the whole , the evidence is in favour of the views explained above .
* * Recent Researches in Electricity and Magnetism , * p. 158 .
t ' Wied .
Ann. , ' vol. 31 , p. 579 .
VOL. LXV .
\gt ; ** 448 Proceedings and List of Officers and Council nominated .
It was found impracticable to get accurately consistent results in the case of helium .
Some cause , the nature of which has not been traced , made the results differ with different samples of the gas , although in each case care had been taken with the purification .
The helium curve , however , shows very peculiar features , the spark potential being , for a wide range of pressure in the neighbourhood of the minimum , almost independent of the pressure .
November 23 , 1899 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S ; , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
Professor Edward Divers ( elected 1885 ) was admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting was given from the Chair , and the list of Officers and Council nominated for election was read as follows :\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Lord Lister , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; Alfred Bray Kempe , M.A. V / f Sir Michael Foster , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. secretaries .
| Professor Arthur William Rucker , M.A. , D.Sc .
C Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Thomas Edward Thorpe , Sc. D. , LL. D. Other Members of Council.\#151 ; Horace T. Brown , F.C.S. ; James Bryce , D.C.L. ; Captain Ettrick William Creak , R.N. ; Professor James Dewar , M.A. ; Professor Edwin Bailey Elliott , M.A. ; Hans Friedrich Gadow , Ph. D. ; Professor William Dobinson Halliburton , M.D. ; Professor William Abbott Herdman , D.Sc .
; Sir Andrew Noble , K.C.B. ; Professor Arnold William Reinold , M.A. ; George Johnstone Stonev , D.Sc .
; George James Symons , F.R.Met .
Soc. ; J. J. H. Teall , M.A. ; Professor Joseph John Thomson , M.A. ; Professor Edward Burnett Tylor , D.C.L. ; Sir Samuel Wilks , Bart. , M.D. The following telegram from Her Majesty 's Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope was read:\#151 ; " Lines of Beta Crucis 4552 , 4569 , 4575 , described unknown in my April paper , Lunt finds due to silicon .
Paper follows .
" The following Papers were read:\#151 ;

