22 Mr-J-N- Loekyer .
[ Dec. 18 , author in 1864 , in which the planet 's spectrum is observed or photo-graphed together with a daylight spectrum .
These photographs show no sensible planetary modification of the violet and ultra-violet parts of the spectrum of the planets Venus , Mars , and Jupiter .
Numerous spectra of small areas of the lunar surface have been taken under different conditions of illumination .
But the results are negative as to any absorptive action of a lunar atmosphere .
IV .
" On a New Method of Spectrum Observation .
" By J. N. .
Lockyer , F.R.S. Communicated at the request*of the Committee on Solar Physics .
Received December 10 , 1879 .
In anticipation of my report on the Methods of Mapping Spectra , which I have been requested to prepare for the Solar Committee , I beg to present to them the following account of some recent work which has been suggested during the preparation of that report .
In the Phil. Trans , for 18/ 3^ I gave an historical account , showing how , when a light source , such as a spark or an electric arc , is made to throw its image on the slit of a spectroscope , the lines had been seen of different lengths , and I also showed , by means of photographs , how very definite these phenomena were .
It was afterwards demonstrated that chemical combination or mechanical mixture gradually reduced the spectrum by subtracting the shortest lines , and leaving only the long ones .
On the hypothesis that the elements were truly elementary , the explanation generally given and accepted was that the short lines were produced by a more complex vibration imparted to the " atom " in the region of greatest electrical excitement , and that these , vibrations were obliterated or prevented from arising by cooling or admixture with dissimilar atoms .
Subsequent work , however , has shownf that of these short lines some are common to two or more spectra .
These lines I have called basic .
Among the short lines , then , we have some which are basic , and some which are not .
The different behaviour of these basic lines seemed , therefore , to suggest that not all of the short lines of spectra were , in reality , true products of high temperature .
That some would be thus produced and would therefore be common to two or more spectra we could understand by appealing to Newton 's rule : " Oausas rerum naturalium non plures admitti debere quam quse et verse sint et earum phsenomenis explicandis sufficiant , " and * " Phil. Trans. , " 1873 , p. 254 .
f " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 159 .
1879 .
] On a New Method of Spectrum Observation .
23 imagining a higher dissociation .
It became , however , necessary to see if the others would also he accounted- for .
I have already given to the Royal Society a preliminary account of the extraordinary , because unexpected , phenomena and changes observed in the spectra of vapours of the elementary bodies when volatilised at different temperatures in vacuum tubes .
Many of the lines thus seen alone and of surpassing brilliancy are those seen as short and faint in ordinary methods of observation , and the circumstances under which they are seen suggest , if we again appeal to the above rule , that many of them are produced by complex molecules .
In this case the appeal lies to the phenomena produced when organic bodies are distilled at varying temperatures ; the simplest bodies in homologous series are those volatilised at the lowest temperatures ; so that on subjecting a mixture of two or more liquids to distillation , at the beginning a large proportion of the more volatile body comes over , and so on .
At any particular heat-level , then , some of the short lines may be due to the vibrations of molecular groupings produced with difficulty with the temperature employed , while others represent the fading out of the vibrations of other molecular groupings produced on the first .application of the heat .
In the line of reasoning which I advanced a year ago , * both these results are anticipated , and are easily explained .
Slightly varying fig. 2 of that paper , we may imagine furnace A to represent the temperature of the jar spark , B that of the Bunsen burner , and 0 a temperature lower than that of the Bunsen burner .
Then in the light of the paper the lines b and c would be truly produced by the action of the highest temperature , c would be short and might be basic , while of the lines h and would be short and could not be basic , because it is a remnant of the spectrum of a lower temperature .
To make this reasoning valid we must show then that the spark , or better still the arc , provides us with a summation of the spectra of various molecular groupings into which the solid metal which we use as poles is successively broken up by the action of temperature .
We are not limited to solid metals ; we may use their salts .
In this .case it is shown in the paper before referred to " ) " that in very many cases the spectrum is one much less rich in lines .
I have therefore attempted to gain new evidence in the required direction by adopting a method .
of work with a spark and a Bunsen flame , which Colonel Donnelly suggestedT should use with a spark and an electric arc .
This consists in volatilising those substances which * " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxyiii , p. 16 ? .
t " Phil. Trans. , " 1873 , p. 258 .
Highest temperature .
C. Lowest 1879 .
] On a Neiv Method of Spectrum Observation .
o-ive us flame spectra in a Bunsen flame and passing a strong spark through , the flame , first during the process of volatilisation , and then after the temperature of the flame has produced all the simplification it is capable of producing .
The results have been very striking ; the puzzles which a comparison of flame spectra and the Fraunhofer lines has set us find , I think , a solution ; while the genesis of spectra is made much more clear.* To take an instance , the flame spectrum of sodium gives us , as its brightest , a yellow line , which is also of marked importance in the solar spectrum .
The flame spectra of lithium and potassium give us , as their brightest , lines in the red which have not any representatives among the Fraunhofer lines , although other lines seen with higher temperatures are present .
Whence arises this marked difference of behaviour ?
From the similarity of the flame spectrum to that of the sun in one case , and from the dissimilarity in the other , we may imagine that in the former case\#151 ; that of sodium\#151 ; we are dealing with a body easily broken up , while lithium and potassium are more resistant ; in other words , in the case of sodium , and dealing only with lines recognised generally as sodium lines , the flame has done the work of dissociation as completely as the sun itself .
27ow it is easy to test this point , for if this be so then ( 1 ) the chief lines and flutings of sodium should be seen in the flame itself , and ( 2 ) the spark should pass through the vapour after complete volatilisation has been effected without any visible effect .
Observation and expex'iment have largely confirmed these predictions .
Using two prisms of 60 ' and a liigh-power eyepiece to enfeeble the continuous spectrum of the densest vapour produced a high temperature , the green lines , the flutings recorded by Roscoe and Schuster , and another coarser system of flutings , so far as I know not yet described , are beautifully seen .
I say largely , and not completely , because the double red line and the lines in the blue have not yet been seen in the flame , either with one , two , or four prisms of 60'r though the lines are seen during volatilisation if a spark be passed through the flame .
Subsequent inquiry may perhaps show that this is due to the sharp boundary of the heated region , and to the fact that they represent the vibrations of molecular groupings more complex than those which give us the yellow and green lines .
The visibility of the green lines , which are short , in the flame , taken in connexion with the fact that they have been seen alone in a vacuum tube , is enough for my present purpose .
* I allude more especially to the production of triplets , their change into quartets , and in all probability into flutings , and to the vanishing of flutings into lines by increasing the rate of dissociation .
Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
[ Dec. 18 , With regard to the second point , the passage from the heat-level of the flame to that of the spark , after volatilisation is complete , produces no visible effect ; indicating that in all probability the effects heretofore ascribed to quantity have been due to the presence of the molecular groupings of greater complexity .
more there is to dissociate , the more time is required to run through the series , and the better the first stages are seen .
Let us now turn to lithium .
Seeing that the red line is absent while the violet lithium line is strong among the Fraunhofer lines , we may imagine that the flame lias not done the work ot dissociation in the case of lithium so .completely as the sun does it , so that ( 1 ) the other lines of lithium should not be visible , even with the new precautions , in the flame spectrum , and ( 2 ) a passage from the heat-level of the flame to that of the spark after volatilisation should produce the other lines which we know to exist in the spectrum of the metal in the orange , blue , and violet .
Experiment and observation have also confirmed this result , so far as the yellow and blue lines go ; that in the violet is difficult of observation.# We next come to potassium .
The potassium lines usually recorded as not seen in a flame , but which are observed with a spark , are not very brilliant ; nor are they strong among the Fraunhofer lines .
Seeing therefore that a high temperature does not greatly develop them , we may expect to find them in the flame .
They are almost all there when they are looked for with proper precautions , but those in all probability present in the sun are brightened on passing the spark , showing apparently that the flame volatilises with some difficulty the molecule which gives the line in the red .
The flame spectrum of magnesium perhaps presents us best with the beautiful effects produced by the passage from the lower to the # The way in which the lines ordinarily seen in the flame are unaffected by the spark strikingly reminds me of the following remarks of Angstrom and Thalen :\#151 ; " The Fraunhofer lines can in general be divided , according to their appearance , into two classes : the one sharply defined and tolerably deep black , the other by no means so decidedly marked either as to form or colour .
These two different kinds of lines are , as regards their appearance , very happily characterised by the opinion expressed on a former occasion , that the former , especially when the illumination is feeble , look as if they were situated considerably in front of the faint ground on which the latter seem to lie .
The most prominent lines of the former class almost all proceed from iron : and those which remain , after the iron-lines are abstracted , belong to the other metals : calcium , manganese , chromium , \amp ; c."\#151 ; ( " Angstrom and Thalen on the Fraunhofer Lines , together with a Diagram of the Yiolet Part of the Solar Spectrum .
" Upsala , 1866 ; p. 5 .
) 1879 .
] On a New Method of Spectrum Observation .
higher heat-level , and shows the important bearing on solar physics of the results obtained by this new method of work .
In the flame the two least refrangible of the components of b are seen associated with a line less refrangible , so as to form a triplet .
A series of flutings and a line in the bine are also seen .
On passing the spark , all these but the two components of b are abolished .
We get the wide triplet replaced by a narrow one of the same form , the two lines of b being common to both , thus\#151 ; Flame Spectrum ( End of Flutings ) Spark Spectrum When the line in the blue disappears on passing the spark , two new lines are seen .
The spark lines are in the sun , but the less refrangible member of the wide triplet and the blue line seen in the flame are absent .
The following are the details of some of the experiments which have been made on the above points :\#151 ; Experiment No. I.\#151 ; Two pieces of platinum wire were supported in a Bunsen flame at a distance from one another of about 3 millims. They were then connected with a Holtz machine , in order that the spark might be passed inside the flame .
An image of the platinums was then thrown on the slit of the spectroscope by means of a lens .
The spectroscope used had two dense flint prisms of 60 ' .
A piece of charcoal soaked in solution of sodic chloride was put into the base of the flame first , and then just below the platinum , and the spectrum observed ; it consisted simply of the yellow line D. The spark was passed and the spectrum again observed ; it now consisted of D plus the lines of hydrogen and some air lines , the red and green Na lines and the green flutings being still absent .
Experiment No. II.\#151 ; Same arrangements , except that a large induction coil was substituted for the Holtz machine .
The same results were obtained with the sodic chloride .
Experiment No. III.\#151 ; Metallic sodium w'as next tried .
It was found that when the metal was put into the flame just below the platinums the green line and the flutings were seen without the spark , that is , at the ordinary temperature of the flame .
On introducing the sodium 28 Mr- J- Lockyer .
[ Dec. 18 , into the lower part of the flame , the green double ( A 5687'2 and 5681-4 ) and the flutings were not seen , either with or without the spark .
Experiment No. IV.\#151 ; Same arrangements as No. II , with metallic sodium , and with a small blowpipe instead of Bunsen .
In this experiment the flame spectrum , showed , besides the yellow line ( D ) , the green double ( X 5687*2 and 5681-4 ) , and also the flutings in the green , those in the red being absent .
As soon as the spark was passed , the green double ( X5687'2 and 5681*4 ) became brighter , while the flutings vanished .
In these observations the sodium was put into the flame just below the platinums .
When put into the bottom of the flame , the D line was seen alone .
Experiment No. V. A glass tube inch in diameter was prepared , about 6 inches in length , having two platinums sealed into it at a distance of 4 inches from each other .
A bulb was blown at each end , so that the spectrum might be examined with the tube end-on .
A piece of sodium was put into the tube , and the latter exhausted with a Sprengel pump .
An Argand burner was placed at one end of the tube , in order that the absorption of the vapour , as well as its radiation , might be observed .
The metal was then very gradually heated by a Bunsen flame .
After the heating had gone on for about twenty minutes the absorption line of D appeared ; this gradually increased in intensity .
On passing the spark along the tube , the bright lines of sodium appeared , the green double ( X 5687'2 and 568L4 ) , being distinguishable after D had been seen for a little time alone .
The temperature was now increased and the absorption spectrum again examined .
The flutings in the green gradually made their appearance , D increasing in intensity , the green line being invisible .
Afterwards the flutings in the red came in .
On passing the spark the absorption spectrum , consisting of the red and green flutings disappeared instantaneously , and the green double was seen very bright ; after the passage of the spark D dark was much increased in breadth .
The quantity of hydrogen given off during the change prevented the passage of the spark , and the observations had to be discontinued .
As soon as some of this had been pumped out the same observations were repeated with the same results .
Experiment No. VI.\#151 ; An experiment was made with lithic chloride in Bunsen flame , with the same arrangement as in Experiment No. I. The flame spectrum with the dispersion employed showed no Li line except the red one ( A , 6705-2 ) .
On passing the spark from the Holtz machine , the yellow line ( A 6102'0 ) and the blue line ( A 4602,7 ) appeared as bright as the red line .
The same results were obtained on repeating the experiment with the large induction-coil .
1879 .
] On a New Method of Spectrum Observation .
Experiment No. VII\#151 ; Potassic nitrate was tried by the method previously described in Experiment No. I. The flame spectrum consisted as usual of the red lines ( X 7697 and 7663 ) and the blue line ( X 4045 ) , very faint .
The effect of the spark was to bring out the yellow lines ( X about 5800 ) , those in the green ( X about 5340 ) , and the red double ( X 6946 and 6913 ) , out of the flutings visible in the red , the double at 7697 and 7663 not being affected .
The experiment was repeated with the induction-coil , and the same observations made , with the additional one that the spark also slightly intensified the blue line .
Experiment No. VIII.\#151 ; On repeating the experiment with metallic potassium , the same phenomena were more markedly observed , the lines about X 5800 , and other lines more refrangible , were visible as very faint objects in the flame ; they were much strengthened , however , by the passage of the spark .
Experiment No. IX.\#151 ; Some potassium was volatilised by the spark in front of the slit of the sun-spectroscope and comparison of the positions of the lines with the Eaunhofer lines made .
It is believed that X 5829-0 , 5802-0 , 5782-5 are all reversed in the solar spectrum .
The less refrangible member of the red double ( X 6946 ) was next compared , and was undoubtedly absent from the sun .
These observations , however , are rendered extremely difficult on account of the fluted appearance of the yellow lines , and must be repeated with a stronger sun and the electric arc .
The spectroscope employed had three prisms , one of 60 ' and two of 45 ' .
Experiment No. X.\#151 ; The flame spectrum of magnesium was examined , a green triplet was observed , which was at first sight taken for b. Measurements of the lines , however , showed that the less refrangible member was less refrangible than b , and had a wavelength 5209-8 , and that the other two members were hl and respectively .
A fresh charge of magnesium was put into the flame and the spark passed ; the original triplet was now no longer visible , the line at 5209"8 having vanished , but was now seen forming with bl and 63 a triplet of similar form on a smaller scale .
According to Thalen , there are three blue lines of magnesium at wave-lengths 4481"0 , 4586"5 , and 4703"5 .
\#166 ; These lines were looked for in the flame with and without the spark .
Without the spark only one line was visible in this region ; its position was found by comparison with the solar spectrum to be at wave-length 4570-.3 , and coincident with no Fraunhofer line .
The passage of the spark abolished this line , at the same time bringing in the two lines given by Thalen at wave-length 4481"0 and 4703"5 , both of which are reversed in the solar spectrum .
No line was seen at Thalen 's wave-length 4586"5 , the nearest approach to which was the line seen at the temperature of the Bunsen 30 Mr- J- N- Lockyer .
[ Dec. 18 , flame at wave-length 4570'3 , a difference of more than sixteen divisions of the scale .
I am now preparing maps showing the phenomena observed ah various heat-levels .
I think it is not too much to hope that a careful study of such maps , showing the results already obtained , or to be obtained at varying temperatures , controlled by observations of the conditions under which changes are brought about , will , if we accept the idea that various dissociations of the molecules present in the solid are brought about by different stages of heat , and then reverse the process , enable us to determine the mode of evolution by which the molecules vibrating in the atmospheres of the hottest stars associate into those of which the solid metal is composed .
I put this suggestion forward with the greater confidence , because I see that help 'can be got from various converging lines of work .
To some of these I may briefly allude here : 1 .
We have the lines present in the solar spectrum , and absent from it .
Example .
The red potassium line present in the flame is absent from the sun ; some of the other lines are present .
2 .
We have the varying thicknesses of the lines of any one element in the sun to compare with the thicknesses produced at different temperatures in the laboratory .
Example\#151 ; The various lines of magnesium , notably 5 , the most refrangible line given by Thalen , and the other blue line .
3 .
We have the remarkable behaviour of metals vaporised in a vacuum at the lowest temperatures .
Example.\#151 ; Sodium gives us D , potassium gives us the triplet in the green-yellow ; calcium gives us .the line in the blue ; thus separating those lines from all the others of those metals .
4 .
TVh have the remarkable behaviour of the same vapours under like circumstances , the temperature alone being changed ; when this is increased lines visible under ordinary conditions are brought in , and are seen in different parts of the tube , so that each line in turn ( and therefore , I presume , each molecule which produces it ) is separated from those with which it is generally seen in company .
Example.\#151 ; By increasing the temperature we get the green line of sodium without D , and some of the magnesium lines have been seen separated from the others .
5 .
We have the power of determining the lower states by means of absorption phenomena , and then of observing the radiation of the vapours produced by the passage of a feeble current of electricity .
Example.\#151 ; The fluted spectrum of sodium described by Roscoe and Schuster is instantly abolished by this means , and a brightening of the green and a considerable thickening of the dark yellow lines is seen .
1879- ] Note on the Spectrum of Hydrogen .
31 6 May we consider the existence of these molecular states as forming a true basis for Dalton 's law of multiple proportions ?
If so , then the metals in different chemical combinations will exist in different molecular groupings , and we shall be able by spectrum observations to determine the particular heat-level to which the molecular complexity of the solid metal , induced by chemical affinity , corresponds .
Examples.\#151 ; None of the lines of magnesium special to the flame spectrum are visible in the spectrum of the chloride either when a flame or a spark is employed .
The facts recorded in my papers , printed in the " Phil. Trans. " some years ago , on the spectra of salts and mixtures , seem all explained in this way .
I think then that the method of mapping , to be complete , should not only show the metallic lines as produced at various temperatures compared with the Fraunhofer ones , but that for each metal investigations should be made and recorded for as many heat-levels as possible , and for various chemical groupings such as CrO Fe2Cl6 CrO , FeCl2 Cr202 Fe Or , to give examples , with a view of investigating the facts , to see whether we can trace a molecular evolution in each case .
Further , the " basic " lines recorded by Thalen will require special study with a view to determine whether their existence in different spectra can be explained or not on the supposition that they represent the vibrations of forms , which , at a early stage of the planet 's history , entered into combination with other forms , differing in proximate origin , to produce different " elements .
" V. " Note on the Spectrum of Hydrogen .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received December 17 , 1879 .
Some years ago , in an account of a research undertaken by Dr. Frankland and myself , it was pointed out that in the tubes we then employed the h line of hydrogen was only seen when the coil and Leyden jar were so arranged as to produce those effects which are generally supposed to be due to high temperatures .
The remark , as we distinctly stated , was only made in connexion with the tubes we then employed , which were of widish bore ; it is necessary to mention this because in Germany the remark has been taken to apply to all tubes .

