]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
LODGE .
oLIVEB .
Experiments on the Absence of Mechanical Connexion between Ether and Matter .
Phil. Trans. , , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 149-166 .
Aberration problems\mdash ; aberrational effect due to rotation .
Lodge , Oliver .
Phil. Trans. , , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 149-166 .
Ether and Matter , absence of mechanical connexion ; viscosity of ether ; rotational ether motion .
Lodge , Oliver .
Phil. Trans. , , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 149-166 .
Interference fringes , reflected from moving matter .
Lodge , Oliver .
Phil. Trans. .
, 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 149-166 .
Light , influence of Motion of Matter ) ; velocity near moving matter ; effect of rotating ma.netlc and electric fields .
Lodge , Oliver .
Phil. Trans. , , 1897 , , pp. 149-166 .
[ 149 ] .
Bxperinoents on the Absence of Connexion between Ether and Matter .
OLIVER LODGE , , Professor of Physics an University Colle.g , Liverpool .
Received 19 , \mdash ; Read March 4 , 1897 .
THE conclusion of the experimental part of a previously published menloir , on " " Aberration Problems and the connexion between Ether and gross Matter dated March , 1892 , and ished in the 'Phil .
Trans. , ' Series , for 1893 , p. 777 , is as follows " " The velocity of light between two steel plates moving together in their own plane , an inch apart , is not increased or diminished by so much as part of their velocity Since that date , of March , 1892 , a considerable number of further experiments have been made , tending to confirm and extend the above conclusion ; and of these experiments it is the object of the present communication to give a brief account .
The general plan of experimenting having been sufficiently indicated in the previous memoir , no more details will now be related beyond those necessary to make the record of use to a later student of the subject .
The figures on pp. 759 , 761 , 767 illustrated the apparatus used .
The chief conclusion of the theoretical part of the former paper ( p. 752 ) is that no first-order effect of purely irrotational ethereal motion can ever be optically detected ; in other words , that as long as the motion of a medium is characterised everywhere by a potential function , the course of all observable through it , however reflected and refracted they may be , is independent of the motion ( no matter how the waves may be tilted ) , and the time ofjourney along any given path through any kind of material is likewise perfectly definite , and independent of the motion , except fox experiments directed to the second order of aberration-magnitude .
Hence no attempt to disturb the ether by using a spoked wheel , or revolving bars *Assisted by Mr. BENJAMIN DAVIES .
It ma .
be argued that the details of an experiment having a negative result should not be published ; but to me it seems that their publication in that case is more essential than iu any other , because on them alone can a judgment be made as to how far the problem has been attacked in a careful and responsible manner , and because an answer 'no when really attained , is just as definite and positive a reply to some questions as an swer " " yes The epithet- " " single.valued\ldquo ; should be explicitly prefixed to the words " " potential function\ldquo ; in S29 , , of the memoir referred to , ' Phil. Trams , 1893 .
19 .
or paddles , would have a chance of success , unless there existed a trace of something akin to viscosity by which the medium could be got hold of , and as the previous arrangement of apparatus seemed as well calculated as any other to detect the existence of a trace of viscosity , whereby ether in the immediate , of moving matter should sooner or later be more or carried along by it , no fundamental in the mode of experiment seemed necessary ; only improvement in details , and some modifications , in order to secure a closer and a wider generalisation .
Hitherto the experiments had been conducted with a pair of hard steel disks like circular saws , clamped together on a vertical axis , at a distance apart of one inch .
These disks had been spun , speed not exceeding 1250 revolutions a minute in the most rate experiments , and the effect of the motion on a bifurcated am of light , whose two halves travelled in opposite directions several times round in the space between the disks , was observed .
One half of the hght travelled in the same sense as the motion , while the other half travelled in the opposite sense ; the two half beams were made to interfere in the field of view of a micrometer and a shift of the central band of the system by so much as the hundredtb part of .
the width of a band could be observed .
In making the above careful estimate of the result , .
however , the safe course was taken of assuming that , of a band shift was the minimum certainly detectable .
There were some modifications still to be made before accepting a definitely negative result of experiment .
: to steady the , so tha ' quantitative readings could be taken without tremor at a much higher speed of rotation .
2nd : to continue the motion for some considerable time , and to narrow the light wat , ch the effect-close to a disk .
3rd : to increase the mass of the revolving matter .
4th : to magnetise the revoJving material .
5th : to electrify.it .
The connexion looked for between ether and matter being something of the nature of viscosity , the space betweethe disks be pather wide ; though it is : difficult to suppose any motion generated at of the : disks in a substance ssing any of the of an rdinpry fluid , should uot spread into the nearly enclosed spade between them .
It may , however , be conceivably argued that this diffusion of motion might take considerable time , and hence the modification labelled No. 2 above was called for .
The modification No. 3 is to meet the argument that , even though a viscous connexion between ether.and matter were disproved , it did not follow that there was not another of connexion petent to transmit motion ffom one to the .
: .
the unknown kind of connexion which !
concerned .
in gravitation ; and to display .
e:ffect-on a large mass must be used .
- .
MECBANICAL CONNEXION BETWEE AND MATTER .
Probably the mass necessary to demonstrate any action of the gravitational kind would be impractically large , unless the earth itself could be used .
Now , by .
staking out mirrors at the corners of a field , it is arithmetically quite possible to arrange for a perceptible shift of the bands due to the rotation of the earth , if it carries ether round with it ; but it does not seem possible to experimentally observe that shift , unless some method could be devised of making the observer and his apparatus independent of the rotation .
It is to be observed , that since a motion of the disks relatively to the observer and the light causes no effect , the ether being stationary , it follows that a motion of the light and observer would produce an effect , since they would be moving relatively to the ether .
Hence if , instead of spinmng only the disks , the whole apparatus , lantern , optical frame , telescope , observer and all were mounted on a turntable and caused to rotate , a reversible shift of the bands should ) seen .
It would not matter in the least whether the disks were revolvin or not , and they might just as well be absent .
The effect would be of an aberrational kind , the opposite light beams being accelerated and retarde by the motion appropriately .
In an actual experiment of this kind , centrifugal force would give some trouble by introducing strains , and rapid rotation would be uncomfortable for the observer ; but really rapid rotation should be unnecessary to show the effect .
My present optical apparatus mounted on a turn-table revolving 4 times a minute should show something , viz. : band shift each way .
A certain amount of discomfort during the accelerative stages of any speed ] hardly be avoided , and even during steady motion there would be some inconvenience ; for instance , at 30 revolutions a minute the observer 's .
weight , at a etre and a half from the centre , would be half as much again , and would be inclined at to the vertical .
This , however , might be tol rated .
If the ether is stationary near the earth , that is , if it be neither carried round nor along by that body , a single interference square , 1 kilometre in the side , would show a shift ofrather more than one band 1dth , due to the earth 's rotation in these latitudes ; see p. 772 , ' Phil. Trans 1893 .
But as the effect depends on area of the square , a size of frame capable of mechanical inversion is altogether too small ; there may , however , be some indirect ingenious way of virtually accomplishing a reversal of rotation\mdash ; something for instance based on an interchange of source and eye\mdash ; and if so , it would constitute the easiest plan of examining into the question of terrestrial other drift .
If matter vably drags the ether with it in proportion to its mass , an ordinary lump of matter can hardly be expected to cope with the heart and to shift it in opposition to that body ; nevertheless , since nothing is known on the.subject one way or the other , it was thought well to give a more massive body a chance , by rotating a solid piece of iron about three-quarters.of .
ton in weight , .
and with a much narrower groove or channel cut in it for the passage of the light .
It was to arrange time for the elisation of this piece of iron when 152 PROFESSOR OLIVER LODGE ON THB Wffi desired , so as to be able to attack the question above , numbered 4 , without expense .
Accordingly , I ordered from Messrs. MATnXR and PIAR an oblate spheroid of best Swedis .
iron , a yard in diameter and half a foot thick , with a deep channel or groove half an inch wide cut into its rim to a depth of one all round .
was not found practicable to make the iron all in one piece , and accordingly it was constructed of two pieces bolted together , and its section shown in fig. The bottom of the groove was wound with wire to a depth of 4* inches , the wire used being No. 20 B.W.G. double silk-covered copper ; and of it lbs. 10 ozs .
was wound on , in 94 layers of 9 convolutions per layer , the central iron core being 1 foot thick .
The ends of the wire come out through small holes drilled for the purpose , with balancing holes drilled at equal opposite radii so as to leave the cent , re of gravity undisturbed , and the wire was then tightly bound with tape and steel to resist centrifugal force .
The free ends of the covered wire were clamped to the surface of the disk and led to a set of insulated brass rings on the upper part of the axle , so that an electric current either steady or commutated could conveniently be supplied whenever desired .
The resistance of the coil was measured by one of my students as ohms , and its insulation resistance was just short of 2 megohms .
The length of the wire is about 1 kilometre or two-thirds of a mile .
The magnetising current was usually supplied the town main , at 110 volts nomnal , which ve a current of amperes through the coil of 846 turns , and accordingly developed a magneto-motive force of 4000 The lines of force so generated streamed across the half inch gap from the one half of the oblate spheroid to the other , being rather more plentiffil in the deep parts of the channel .
But the course of the beam of light only partially penetrated into the most intense region , and its mean track was situatod about 46 inches the penphery ; so at this place I asked a student to measure the magnetic field excited by various strengths of current ( by the common method of suddenly snatching out a coil and comparing the galvanometer throw with that caused by an MEOHANICAL CONNEXION HETWEBN ETHER MATTER .
earth inductor in the same circuit thrown oYer two right angles ) .
There was a certain amount of permanent magnetism , and the result is indicated in the following table and plotted in a curve ( fig. 2 ) .
The field intensity was not very different al rent depths in the channel ; it varied from 1730 .
near the rim to 1830 near the winding , when 110 volts were applied .
Fig. 2 .
ENSITY of field in the channel of the oblate spheroid ( with decreasing current ) , at a depth of inches from the outside .
Exciting current in amperes .
Field in .
lines per sq .
centim. 92 255 490 980 1310 1530 1670 1800 The maximum current was commonly used for purposes of excitation ; and sometimes for a short time this current was doubled , by the application of 220 volts .
By the 8th June , 1892 , this iron , weighing 14 , had been mounted on the vertical shaft of the whirling machine , in place of the steel disks , and a spin was taken , with the optical frame in good action , and one half of the beam of light going three times round in the channel of the iron .
The shaft , however , was rather too weak to carry the weight , and exhibited a tendency to bend , which prevented the attainment of high speed .
Moreover , the step bearing on which the shaft rested ( as described in the previous paper , the shaft was supported on a hard steel pivot resting on another steeJ inside an oil 1.54 chamber ) tion , and to smoke 300 olutions a minute , but at speed some obser were mada .
The were so clear that of a band shift .
could have been seen , but there trace of shift when the mass was spinning , either with or without its magnetising current .
The 110 volts of the town main were switched on and off and reversed many times , both when the mass was stationary and when it was revolving five times a second , but there was no effect .
Before proceeding to greater speeds it was obvious that the greater part of the weight of the iron mass must be taken off the pivot and dynamo-axle , and must be supported in somo other way .
A safety collar or guard attached to a frame above the wooden clutch , as shown in Plate 32 , ' Phil. Trans , suggested the use of ball-bearings resting on this collar , which hitherto had been an inactive safetyguard , but was quite strong enough to support the weigh.t required .
Accordingly we had this arrangement made , all the weight of the spheroid now rested on the guard collar by mc-ans of ball-bearings , and the steel pivot had nothing but the dynamo armature to support , this axle also being quite relieved from strain .
The old wooden friction cJutch was now of course useless ; and it was replaced by gr.ipping brass ] on the ends of the joining shafts , just below the bearings , tlIe power being transmitted by a pair of tangential stout copper wires , one on each side , looped round screw heads on the brass collars , so as to transmit a driving couple of considerable magnitude ; but if by any accident the force transmitted was too great , the wires could snap and permit independent movement of the mass .
Parenthetically it may be here stated that the wires broke several times during the course of the series of experiments , showing that the precaution was very necessary , and that a rigid connexion between the axles would have been dangerous .
During these alterations , other experiments , to be presently recorded , were in progress , and it was not till May , ls9.3 , that careful optical spins were again conducted with the iron spheroid .
At this date the fringes were sometimes used after the light had been four or five times round , but usuaIly the superior brightness and definition of the three-timesround beam was preferred .
With a driving current of from 30 to 40 and a voltage of about 80 , the speed of 1000 a minute was readily .
maintained in the heavy mass by aid of the ball-bearings .
At first , however , a new disturbing phenomenon was observed : on beginmng a spin the bands began to tremble and became partiaIIy obscul. .
This was not \amp ; om shaking , nor.did it seem likely to be due to wind reaching th6 semi-transparent plate , because the speed was quite slow .
Screens glazed with microscope cover-glass were nevertheless provided , and next day another attempt was made .
Thefli\amp ; eling of the bands yas just the .
same as before at low speeds , although there -no MECHANIOAb CONNEXION BETWEEN ETHER AN D MATTER .
155 shaking , but as the speed increased .
they became clear , and at 800 revolutions were quite sharp .
At 1000 revolutions per minute a careful of observations was made , with the current applied to the spheroid , \mdash ; on , off , reverse , off , \mdash ; mauy times .
But there was no effect whatever on the bands .
Then we slackened speed nd the magnetisation and reversals down to stoppage , but not a trace of shift .
The flickering and blurring of the bands , already spoken of , which still occurred at speeds , and especially at increasing speeds , was not a serious trouble .
It of course prevented exact observation while it occurred , but it was a purely disturbance..and did not cause the slightest permanent shift .
As soon as the bands were clear again their position was absolutely unchanged .
Nevertheless it was desirable to detect and remove the cause of the disturbance .
Accordingly air blown into the channel from foot bellows , but unless the wire coil inside had been recently used and imperceptibly warmed by the current the air jet made very little difference , though if there was the slightest inequality of temperature it caused a slight flicker .
But a whiff of coal gas , the merest trace , distorted the bands with agony\mdash ; sent them waving through ellipses and contortions into invisibility , allowing them to re-appear as the gas diffused away .
They were manifestly extremely sensitive to fluctuating density , and hence we traced the previous flicker to hot air from the carbon rheostat which regulated the driving current .
It seemed to get drawn into the channel sometimes at low speeds , but at high speeds was blown clear away .
Starting and stopping the iron by hand did not cause the bands to flicker ; they only flickered when the motor was used .
It was plainly a heat convection effect .
Hence we arranged that the carbon rheostat should be far away , and even the slight heat of the motor itself was screened and diverted off by a suitable platform or tray of wood and cardboard arranged above the mo Now I repeated the observaf , ions over and over again , with all sorts of changes , and never found either motion or magnetisation of the heavy iron mass cause the slightest real shift of the bands at the speed of 1000 .
The channel being narrow , the plates themselves were visible in the eye-piece , and the bands could be seen reflected in them .
Also diffraction or interference phenomena could be seen where the bands terminated on the iron ( LLOYD'S bands to oblique retlexion ) at one or other of the plates .
A frequent pearance of the bands under these circumstances is depicted in fig. 3 , next page .
These reflected bands , and also the horizontal boundary stripes with the swellings of the bands on them , were also watched , the cross wires being shifted and set upon one feature after another ; but in no case was the slightest shift seen on magnetisation ; though certainly the test was not so delicate as with the free-air bands , because the plane of the channel-boundaries was not absolutely steady as the pJates revolved .
The bands observed were often so broad that the distauce between them was nparable with the half-inch channel-width , ) sometimes the cross of the hyperas perfect as possible .
The iron mass took a long time to slow down from .
fgil and after being- left to itself twenty minutes half an:hour was tiil r Sometimes it was stopped more quickly-by a brake , to see if orffieratiou had any effect , but none was seen .
On the 8th May , 1893 , we had a good spin at 1200 a minute with the apheroid , Fig. 3 .
Appearance of the interference bands as seen in the half-inch ohauuel of the oblate spheroid .
The bands happened to be reflected in the upper iron surface , and to show subordinate ence stripes in the lower iron surface .
magnetised and reversed , etc. , looking as carefully as possible at the ban\amp ; reflected in the iron and at every part of the bands , but no change of the minutest kind was visible .
On the 9th May , we had a similar spin in the reverse direction , fairly satisfactory , and results definitely ative .
Sometimes an alternating or commutated current was supplied to the coil , but its self-inductance and time-constant were so great that litlile power could be thus developed .
Anyhow , no shift of the bands was seelk , Experiments at Higher Speeds .
During the next few weeks , the iron spheroid was oeplaced by the old steel disks , and great pains were bestowed on getting these accul.ately bahnoed , so that a..high speed could be reached without tremor .
By June , the ether machine could be driven at spee\amp ; above 3000 a minute , power used being 50 amperes and 100 volt\amp ; But at these higher speeds there were many difficulties .
The blast was , of excessive]y strong , and it was necessary to carefully screen it from the irrQIr # frame by boxing the plates up , in the wooden before described ; higher could be attained with the air thus boxed up .
But , air MECHANICAL CONNEXION BETWEEN ETHIBR AND MATTER .
hot , and this spoiled the fringes , so that at speeds they were often invisible .
Without the drum the fringes remained visible , but the blast caused a shift often of as much as two bands .
This shift came back on stopping , and sometimes rathel more than back , ultimately settling down as if slow strains were working themselves out .
The drum was now replaced without floor or roof , and with only very narrow slits for the light to get through .
The light was often four times round .
A smaller shift still remained , there was nothing for it but to glaze the slits , and broaden the drum above and below , so that no trace of air blast could reach the at the same time that there was plenty of ven tilation to keep the air quite cool .
It need hardly be said that the presence of so many glass surfaces in the course of the beam increased the difficulty of getting the fringes distinct for the three-timesround path , for each half of the beam had to undergo not only 11 reflexions as usual , before returning to the } ) arent plate , but transmissions through panes of glass , i.e. , 48 transmissions through a glass-air surface at .
The intelJsity of the beam is thereb greatly enfeebled , and the glass has to be of excellent optical quality and free from strain if good definition is to be got .
Ultimately , by selecting from a number of glass plates supplied by Mr. , the patience of Mr. DAVIES overcame the difficulties , and fringes were.got of sufficiently satisfactory quality with the beam three times round ; a Brockie-Pell arc light imaged upon the aperture of the collimator , and kept finally steady by hand , being used as the source .
It was found that a great width of beam was difficult to probably for a reason subsequently to be mentioned ( varying air density due to centrifugal force ) , and a diaphragm was commonly used over the object glass of the collimator .
Under these conditions a set of observations were made , with the speed up to 2,800 a minute , first in one direction , then the other , and then the first way In each case the hands remained visible at the highest speed , though at certain intermediate speeds , especially about 1000 and 1700 , a slight trenlor smudged them .
The shift observed now was moderately small but .
quite distinct , and was estimated with the micrometer at band .
It repeated itself each time without regard to the direction of spin , and disappeared , though not instantly , when the disks stopped .
It seemed probably due to some obscure residual effect of the blast , perhaps on the cover glasses of the drum .
The shift was irreversible , and of reversible shift there was none .
At these higher speeds it would naturally be thought that bhe true theoretical effect due to whirling air should be observable ; but if its amount be reckoned it will be found to be less than band , and therefore not debectable for certain under the above conditions .
The only effect distinctly due to heat in the aboye experiments was a flicker of the bands at the lowest speeds , just before stopping .
It was due to the gentle warmth of the motor , an air current rising towards the disk and mirrors when the blast was insufficient to drive it away .
But it never did the least harm , and could only be seen MECRA CONNEXION BF , TWEEN ETHER AND MATTER .
band , it follows must be ,300 , in order to show the air effect , that is , the speed must ' rise to 6000 revolutions a minute with a 1 of three times round .
speed would lead impractically near to the bursting-strength of materials ; but it wss hoped that , by taking the average of a series of settings , of a band could be safely observed , and thus the effect of the air-spin detected .
And if everything had gone well , I think this might have been done , but the difficulties met with caused a careful examination of the brick pillars and foundations beneath the floor , with the result of discovering that the brick pillars , by which the optical frame was ultimately supported on its gallows support Phil. Trans , were not so entirely independent of the whirling machine 's stone altar as they ought to have been .
During the vacation bricklayers and carpenters were accordingly called in to re-set the warped beneath the floor , and to clear away all joists and everything that could be suspected of in any way helping to transmit vibration .
The result of this work was a beautiful steadiness and visibility Fig. 4 .
at peeds ; but still the bands showed what we call a concertina action , that is , a moving of the lateral bands in or out from the central one , as speed varied .
There would be no strong objection to such motion , if the precise symmetry of the central band could be assured , but , as this assurance was not forthcoming , the central band sometimes shared in this motion ; and even if it did not , its steadiness was suspicious , because perhaps it ought to have slightly moved .
The residual trouble appeared possibly due to an obscure influence on the glass windows of the drum , possibly a slight warping due to warmth or air pressure , and an attempt was made to dispense with the window panes and to screen from the blast by another method .
Accordingly a fresh drum was made of brass , with a pair of deflecting rims or flanges , so placed as to catch the air whirled off the disks all round , and deflect it out of the way upwards and down wards , the light passing on through a chink or slit in the brass drum to the region protected by these flanges ( fig. 4 ) .
Some residual draught did however manage to reach the mirrors , and , although they were strongly supported , it seemed to flutter them even if unable regularly to tilt them .
It waae then attempted to lessen the freedom of air supply to the axis of rotation , by wooden circular boards , fitting the axle loosely , and nearly as large as the drum , thus greatly interfering with the supply of air .
As soon however as the ventilation was thus interfered with the air got distinctly hot , which was a worse evil .
The drum was supported separately on long wooden girders , so that no part of it This memoir shall be abbreviated by the omission of all the careful sets of readings taken during this period , a record which occupies seventy pages of the ]aboratory note book ; for it must be admitted that , although representing a good deal of work , they fail ultimately to show the air effect ; and this probably for the reason that any effect of that magnitude would be certainly masked by the residual slight disturbing causes present .
The only thing I will record is a plotting of one of the larger spurious ( obtained before the foundation was inspected altered ) to illustrate its typical lagging character .
The dots in this case represent individual , not averages of setting , and they incidentally show the kind of setting which is possible at high speeds through all the cover-glasses , with the light three times round , and when the steadiness was by no means perfect .
The process was as follows:\mdash ; The micrometer wires were set , the single vertical wire in the middle of the middle band , and the X wire on the yellow of the first band to the left ; or else versed .
Both wires were read , at gradually increasing , and then at decreasing speeds , and the results plotted on the ri ght-hand side of the two diagrams ( figs. 5 and 6 ) , so as to show the shift of the middle band due to strains and slight communicated tremors , the change in the scale of wave-length due to concertina action .
Then the brushes of the dynamo were reversed , and another spin taken in the opposite direction , and them the readings taken which are plotted on the left-hand side of the two diagrams .
The total maximum was about of a band on this occasion .
The following verages of a set of readings taken in July , 1893 , may also be quoted :\mdash ; With disks stationary , the middle band read .
each division being of a length .
Disks revolving 3000 a minute , the middle band read . . . . .
, , Disks stationary again , the middle band read , , th Disks revolving 3000 minute in the opposite direction , the middle band read . . . . .
, , Disks stationary again , the middle band read , , MECHANI(JAL CONNEXION BETWEEN ETHER AND MATTER .
Fig. 5 .
Reyersed Details of one of the larger spurious shifts of the middle band , observed before the brick pier supports of the optical frame had been properly overhauled .
The dots represent individual settings and readings of the micrometer cross wire set on the middle band during a ) of spins in opposite directions , while the speed was first increasing and then decreasing .
Fig. 6 .
Corresponding concertina action ( on same scale ) , or change in the breadth of the bands during the above spurious shift .
Dots represent differences between the readings of a micrometer wire set on the yellow of the 1st order and the readings of { he cross wire set on the middle band , The zero of tho vertical scale is far below , 7 squares below .
At that distance this figure may be placed above fig. 5 .
( To realize that such readings fail to show the air effect it may be simplest to write down ideal readings that would show it exactly , viz. :\mdash ; each division being \ldquo ; 94.4 94.7 94.4 : if they had been obtained .
Or the following would do equally well , though less obviously:\mdash ; 94.4 94.6 94.4 95.2 94.4 where there is an irreversible shift of half a division ) superposed upon the reversible effect .
) After the overhauling of the foundations , in September , the bands were beautifully distinct , and there was no tremor .
There was now no clearly perceptible shift of the middle band , but there was a concertina action , shown by a broadening of the bands during spin , thus altering the scale of wave-length .
The following extract will serve to illustrate this : 8th September .
the Disks at rest , the middle band read . . . . .
7 the yellow of the first band read 85 divisions .
With the Disks spinning 3000 revs .
, the middle band read . . . .
7 With the Disks at rest , the middle band read . . . . . . . .
7 With the motion reversed 3000 revs .
, the middle band read 7 , , 102 With the Disks at rest , the middle band read . . . . . . . .
7 \ldquo ; Here the constancy of the number 7 means that change could be seen , but the readings are not averages , nor was the wire reset , and nothing less than a whole division shift would have been observed .
The air effect wouid require division shift .
The existence of concertina effect was held to render useless an attempt to take a serious set of averages ; and by no means could it be wholly got rid of .
Ultimately we decided to do away with the optical frame so close to the disks altogether , and to arrange the mirrors at a distance , out of the blast , on brackets NECHANICAL CONNEXION BETWEEN ETHER AND MATTER .
163 fixed to opposite walls of the room , sending the light round a large oblong instead of a square , and letting two sides of this oblong pass through the channel between the disks .
( The arrangement of this experiment is shown in fig. 8 .
) Meanwhile , we dismantled the machine and sent the disks back to MATHER \amp ; PLATT to be fitted with a third one for electrification .
( 26th Oct. 1893 .
) If there were good reason to push the experiment still further ( and for the present I see no such good reason ) , I should be disposed to attempt placin the disks in an air-tight chamber , kept exhausted by a mechanical oil pump , so as to do away with the greatest part of the troublesome air phenomena .
A possible reason for the concertina effect , and for the slight residual irreversible shift sometimes observed , suggests itself in the gradation of density in the air between the disks , due to centrifugal force .
To estimate its magnitude under any circumstances , we may consider the equilibrium of an element of air at radius !
and write:\mdash ; or whence the density at any radius is Hence , for disks a yard in diameter making 3000 revolutions a minute , the density at centre is about of that at circumference ; and the change of density per centimetre breadth of beam , at a radius of 1 foot , is ; which ] , if be taken as proportional to , gives about equal to ; or say1 as the difference of refractive index , on either side of a beam oflight 1 centimetre broad , in the region of the mean light path .
This is equivalent to the effect of a difference of temperature , in the air on either side of the beam , of a of a degree centigrade .
The gradation of density could therefore cause a distinct effect if the beam of light had an odd number of paths between the disks ; but since there are in our case an odd number of reflexions , and thel.efore an even number of paths , with the beam laterally inverted at each reflexion , the effects must very nearly compensate each other .
If by reason of some want of symmetry there was on the whole a centimetre length of path uncompensated by a laterally inverted portion elsewhere , the corresponding retardation due to gradation of density would be a milliouth of a centimetre , causing an irreversible shift of of a band .
This cause may therefore account for part of the residual irreversible shift observable at high speeds , when all kin\amp ; of mechanical and thermal disturbance have been apparently eliminated .
question of Although it must now be taken that such masses of matter as we had been dealing with are incompetent to disturb the ether in a rotational manner ( for , as has been emphasised in the previous memoir , irrotational motion of a single-valued kin could not be detected by interference or any other optical experiments , since such motion in no way affects either the path or the speed of ray ) , and although further it has now been shown that the conveyance of a magnetic field by moving matter confers no power 0 gripping the ether , yet it was thought possible that electrification might do it ; because an oscillatory charge certainly radiates wave motion into the ether .
And although is not any known kind of mechanical Qturbance , but is concerned with the ether 's electrical properties , and need not necessarily involve any thing analogous to ethereal viscosity even in the neighbourhood of matter , yet it was thought that electric charge , being as it were the connexion between ether and matter , might confer upon material body some power of gripping and rotationally carrying forward the ether in a quasi-viscous manner .
At any rate , whatever reason could be urged for or against such a connexion , it was desirable to bring ib to the test of experiment and superpose an electric field upon the moving disks .
The natural plan for electrifying the disks would seem to be to make one of the disks positive and the other negative , but after consideration it was found impracticable to insulate the existing disks satisfactorily ; and a third disk half way between the other two was contemplated .
This might possibly have been tionary and independently supported , but some preliminary experiments wich a plate thus held showed that in the draught of air it developed some warmth and interfered with the Fig. 7 .
ngement of the insulated steel disk between the other two , showing the mode of electrical connexion , with au axial stud touching a Yoss machine terminal .
fringes ; so a disk , clamped in insulating washers between the other two , was decided on , and made as shown in fig. 7 .
The new disk was made an inch smaller in diameter than the others , but otherwise it was just like them .
Connexions were arranged through insulating holes for the supply of electricity near the axie There was not a wink when the sparks for electrification effect is easy , because the charge can be switched on and iu a state of steady spin , and the slightest difference wouid be observed .
Theoe is certainly no ceptible effect .
When the disks were slowed down and nearly stopped , there was the old temporary flickering of the bands , but this had nothing to do with electrification , it was merely irregular warmth in the air .
We tried also a couple of Leyden jars with their outer coats connected to the disks , so as to get stron " " \ldquo ; sparks between them ( see 'Proc .
Roy .
Soc 1892 , vol. 50 , pp. 4 and 18 ) , but still there was no effect .
Without further delay I conclude that neither an electric .
a magnetic transverse field confers viscosity upon the ether , nor enables moving matter to grip and move it rotationally .

