Structure and Affinities of Matonia pectinata , fc .
439 products , in the gastric gland .
Whether it is utilised for the production of other pigments or not is a question for future investigation .
That it is a chlorophyll derivative I now believe to be proved .
Its stability , as compared with plant chlorophyll , is due to the fact that it has been altered by the action of the digestive juices .
Such derivatives of complex mother-substances are , as is well known , much more stable , and less prone to change than the parent pigments .
* .
' On the Structure and Affinities of Matonia pectinata , R. Br .
, with an Account of the Geological History of the Matoninese .
" By A. C. Seward , F.R.S. , University Lecturer in Botany , Cambridge .
Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1899 .
( Abstract .
) The genus Matonia has long been known as an isolated type among existing ferns .
It is represented by two species , M. pectinata R. Brown and M. sarmentosaBaker , both confined to the Malayan region .
Matonia has not hitherto been examined anatomically , and its reference by several writers to an intermediate position between the Cyatheaceae and Gleicheniaceae , is based on the structure of the sorus , which , in the small numbers of sporangia and in its circular form , resembles the latter family , while the presence of an indusium and the position of the annulus afford connecting links with Cyatheaceous ferns .
In Matonia pectinata the frond has a characteristic pedate habit , with numerous long pinnae having slightly falcate linear segments , practically all of which appear to be fertile .
The sori are circular in form and indusiate , consisting of about eight large sporangia with an oblique incomplete annulus , containing sixty-four tetrahedral spores .
The dichotomously branched rhizome , which grows on the surface of the ground , is thickly covered with a felt of multicellular hairs , and gives rise to long-stalked fronds from its upper face , and a few wiry roots , which may arise from any part of the surface of the stem .
The full paper deals more especially with the anatomical structure of Matonia pectinata .
The material which rendered the investigation possible was generously supplied by Mr. Shelford , of the Sarawak Museum , Borneo , to whom the author wishes to express his hearty thanks .
The stem is polystelic , and of the gamostelic type ; there may be two annular steles , with the centre of the stem occupied by ground-tissue , or in shorter branches of the rhizome a third vascular strand may occupy the axial region .
Each steal consists of xylem tracheids and associated parenchyma , surrounded by phloem composed of large sieve-tubes , with numerous sieve-plates on the lateral walls , and phloem Mr. A. Mallock .
parenchyma ; an endodermis and pericycle surround each steal , and in the case of the annular steles these layers occur both internally and externally .
At the nodes the outer annular steal bends up into the leaf-stalk , and a branch is also given off ' from the margin of a gap formed in the inner annular steal ; the axial vascular strand may or may not be in continuity with the meristele of the leaf .
The petiole is traversed by a single steal , similar in shape to that of certain Cyathe-aceous ferns ; towards the top of the leaf-stalk the steal alters its form , and gradually gives off separate ( J-shaped branches to supply the pinnae .
The most interesting feature in the structure of the pinnules is the marked papillose form of the lower epidermal cells .
The roots have a triarch steal enclosed by a few layers of thick brown sclerous cells .
In structure Matonia pectinata presents points of agreement with several families of ferns , on the whole approximating more closely to Cyatheaceas than to any other family ; but the peculiarities are such as to fully confirm the conclusion previously drawn from external characters that Matonia should be placed in a separate division of the Filices .
After comparing the structure of the Malayan species with that of other fern genera , the paper concludes with an attempt to give an account of the geological history of the Matoninese .
The genera Laccopteris and Matonidiumare dealt with at some length , and reference is made to other Mesozoic ferns , which may probably be included in the same group .
The data furnished by an examination of palaeontological evidence lead to the conclusion that in Matonia we have a survival of a family of ferns , now confined to a few localities in Borneo and the Malay peninsula , and represented by two living species , which in the Mesozoic epoch had a wide geographical range , being especially abundant in the European area .
" Note on a new Form of light Plane Mirrors .
" By A. Mallock .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.B.S. Received February 28 , \#151 ; Read March 9 , 1899 .
Having recently , in the course of some experiments on air waves , had 'occasion to make use of some very thin films as coverings for the openings of resonators , it occurred to me that such films , if stretched over rings with edges ground to a true plane , might be used as plane mirrors , and the following note records the results of the trials made with this object in view .
The best films were obtained by letting a few drops of a solution of pyroxyline in amyl acetate spread on the surface of water and lifting

