]\gt ; Extension } } ?
gnetic Theory .
91 Extension of lIaxwell 's Electro-magnetic Theory of Light to inclu de Dispersion , Metallic Reflection , and Allied Phenomena B.y EDWIN EDSER , A.R.C.S. Communicated by Captain W. DE .
ABNEY , C.B. , F.R.S. Received 18 , \mdash ; Rcad March 10 , 1898 .
' A dielecbric , an electrolyte , is assumed to consist of molecules , , in the simplest case , two oppositely charged atoms at a ) defimte .
In a homogeneous medium , when not subiected strain , these molecules will be arranged in such a manner that any eleneut of volume will possess no resultant ectric moment .
If defiuite potential difference be maintained between any two parnllel planes in the medium , positively harged toms will move to points of Iower , and the negatively charged atoms to points of , potential .
Thus two kinds of molecul11 ' strain are oduced : firstly , a molecular rotation ; and secondly , a the molecule of the constituent atoms .
Let be the actual electromotive intensity at any point in the medium , and be the electric displacement other than that produced by the atomic charges .
Then where is a ConSpdig on the nature of the medium .
Tho tity 1 represents the inductive capacity of the medium .
The actual .
displacement of the atoms is shown to be small conpared ith molecular magnitudes .
Maxwell 's equati on , that the line of the electromolive a closed is equal to the rate of of tho nctic induction through the cuit , needs modilicatio ] the ) ation of disturbances through the above is consi Maxwell.s second equation is modified addin to the tolal splacement current at any point the ession is the atomic is the velocity of that c iu direcliou considered , and denotes sumlnation for u1tit volu1ne .
equfttions for the atomic tions ( rotational and separational ) are given , the fracbive index is finally deterin the form which is the most general form of Kctteler 's dispersio1i 92 Extension of Maxwell 's -magnetic Theory of Light .
is to be equal to the specific inductive capacity of th medium , as previously determined .
For a medium which might be compressed without altering of vibration of the molecules , ] adstone a Dale 's law , in the modified form density , would follow .
Double refraction , in case of a uniaxial crystal , is explained on th ' assumption that the molecules arc arranged with their axes paralle to a certain direction .
ical disbnrbances perpendicular to this ection will prodtlce a molecular rotation ' .
those parallel to this direction will produce an inter-atomic .
The doubly refracting nature of a dielectric when subjected to tric strain is thus explained ; and it is pointed out that Lord Kelvin was led to postulste a crystalline structure similar to the above to account for the pyro-electric properties of tourmaline , \amp ; c. For infinitely quick vibrations the refiactive index of the above medium will be equal to Ullity , a result possibly explaining the action of material bodies on Rontgen adiations .
Assuming a metallic or quasi-metallic substttnce to have a structure essentially similar to that described ) , with addition that a viscous term is included equation for the atomic vibration , the efractive index of a metal is found in the form of a complex quantity , the nary 1 of which is essentially positive .
The ordinary laws of metallic reflection , as deduced by Cauchy and others , will therefore hold .
It is that for those metaJs in which the real part of the square of the active index is a large negative quantity , the velocity of of light will be in .
versely proportional to the molecular viscosity .
Since .
Tomlinson has shown for those metals which he had examined the order of magnitude of the specific elect r resistances was the same as that of molecular ities , connection is established between the velocity of and tho conductivity of a metal , agreeing with thal oblained experimentally by Kundt .
The initial assumptions in the investigation are similar to those made by Helmboltz in his pers on ) Theory of * Some doubt been expressed as to whether Helmholtz 's develoI ) mcntsal.e in consonance with lfaxwell 's theory .
In the present the principle of Least Action is not used .
The dispersion obtained differs from that of Helmholtz , but bears a general ance to that obtained by Rieff in his modification of ] 's theory .
A more physical significance is , however , tu ious constants oduced .
* 'Wied .
Ann vol. , pp. visideWied ' , August 7 , 1896 .

