XXIX .
An Account of a very extraordinary Effect of Lightning on a Bullock , at Swanborow , in the Parish of Iford near Lewes , in Sussex .
In sundry Letters , from Mr. James Lambert , Landscape-Painter at Lewes ; and One from William Green , Esquire , at Lewes , to William Henly , F. R. S. LETTER I. FROMM R. LAMBER T. Sept. 13 , 1774 .
I SHALL now inform you of a very extraordinary and singular effect of lightning on a bullock in this neighbourhood , which happened about a fortnight since .
The bullock is pied , white and red .
The lightning , as supposed , stripped off all the white hair from his back , but left the red hair without the least injury .
I have been to see the bullock , and have made a drawing of it , which I will send you as soon as I can get more particulars from Mr. Rogers , the proprietor ; for , when I saw him , I omitted to ask him , if the hair was all off ( as it now appears ) when it was first seen the next morning ; and whether any hair was found in the field ; and if it appeared to be singed or not ?
The Ttt2 bullock R. May 1 , bullock does not seem to have been hurt ; his skin looks fair and well .
Mr. ROGERS informs me , that he has had two other bullocks struck in the same manner ; one last summer , that was all white , was stripped of his hair like this , though not all over his back , but chiefly on his shoulders ; the other , two years since , was pied , and affected much like the present .
He thinks , it cannot be the effect of any disease , because the beasts were all in good health before and after this accident happened .
He is more inclined to think it was the effect of lightning , because when he has had cattle disordered , so as to make their hair come off , he has never observed white hair to come off more than red , &amp;c. ; but that it has , if partycoloured , fallen off promiscuously , and generally in patches ; and also by slow degrees , and never suddenly , as in the case of these bullocks .
I shall be glad to know your thoughts on this matter , whether it is a new circumstance to you or not ; and if you think it much worth attending to .
I am , &amp;c. LETTER II .
FROMWILLIAMGREE N , ES Q. SIR , Sept. 28 , 1774 .
THE enclosed account of the effect of lightning seems to me very extraordinary ; perhaps , such instances may be known to you : however , to be certain whether they are so or not , I have troubled you with a description of this case ; if it should prove to be no novelty , you will only have the trouble of reading it .
In the evening of Sunday the twenty-eighth of August , at this place , there was an appearance of a thunder storm , but we heard no report .
A gentleman , who was riding near the marshes not far distant from this town , saw two strong flashes of lightning , seemingly running along the ground of the marsh , at about nine of the clock in the evening .
On Monday morning , when the servants of Mr. ROGERS , a farmer at Swanborough , in the parish of Iford , went into the marsh , to fetch the oxen to their work , they found one of them , a four-yearold steer , standing up , to appearance much burnt , and so weak as to be scarce able to walk .
This was mentioned to me about a week after the accident happened ; and by the description of it , it seemed to have been struck with lightning in a very uncommon manner .
The ox is of a red and white colour ; the white in large marks , beginning at the rump-bone , and running , in various directions , along both the sides ; the belly is all white , and the whole head and horns are white likewise .
The lightning , with which it must have been undoubtedly struck , fell on the rump-bone , which is white , and distributed itself along the sides , in such a manner , as to take off all the white hair from the white marks as low as the bottom of the ribs , but so as to leave a list of white hair , about half an inch broad , all round where it joined to the red ; and not a single hair of the red , that I can perceive , is touched .
The whole belly is unhurt , but the end of the sheath of the penis has the hair taken off ; it is also taken off from the deulap ; the horns and the curled hair on the forehead are uninjured , but it is taken off the sides of the face , from the flat part of the jaw-bones , and it is taken off from the front of the face in stripes .
There are a few white marks on the side and neck , which are surrounded with red , and the hair is taken off from them , leaving half an inch of white adjoining to the red .
I looked attentively at the feet and legs , and could not discover any hair taken from them ( they were very dirty ) except from the joint a little above one of the hoofs , where it was partly off .
I have sent a sketch of one of the sides of the ox , which will serve to illustrate what I have said , and is better than any description .
I have coloured , with faint red , those parts which were stripped of the hair .
The farmer anointed the ox with oil for a fortnight ; the animal purged very much at first , and is greatly reduced in flesh .
I saw it about a fortnight ago , and it was then recovering .
I am , &amp;c. LETTER III .
FROMM R. LAMBER T. Nov. 15 , 1774 .
I AM sorry for the delay in sending you this drawing ; but , as you know the cause , I need not say any thing further than that I have the happiness to acquaint you , that I am now quite recovered from my illness .
I have not had an opportunity of seeing Mr. GREEN , therefore cannot tell how his account may agree with mine ; but I have endeavoured , as much as possible , to get an exact state of the matter , having carefully inspected the bullock twice , accompanied by my nephew and a gentleman at my house .
The creature being , as I observed to you before , remarkably gentle , we could examine every part of him very minutely .
You will see by the drawing , that the white hair was all stripped off from his back and down the sides , as low as the greatest diameter of his body , also from the top of the nose , the upper part of both cheeks , and over the eyes , leaving the skin quite bare ; but below those places , under the belly , gullet , the under parts of the cheeks , the legs , and ring of white in the tail , together with an edge of white at the parting of the red and white hair , all remained without the least injury .
We were the more particular in examining the legs , on account of your mentioning that Mr. GREEN had observed traces of the stroke down them to the ground , in which , I think , he must be mistaken ; for , both the times when we saw the bullock , his legs were quite clean down to the hoofs , and the hair seemed to be in a perfect state .
If the legs had been at all affected , I think , it could not have escaped our notice in two examinations ; and there being no marks of lightning on them , inclines me to think , that the bullock was lying down at the time , and if so , you will readily account for the under parts not being touched .
The lightning being conducted by the white hair , from the top of the back down the sides , came to the ground , at the place where the white hair is left entire ; but there is one remarkable circumstance , viz. though all the white hair on the upper parts was taken away , as beforementioned , yet the tuft of white hair on the forehead never received any hurt at all .
I have conversed with several farmers , &amp;c. in hopes of getting some information relative to those matters , but can meet with nothing perfectly satisfactory .
The best account I have been able to obtain is from my neighbour Mr. TOOTH , a farrier and bullock-leach .
He tells me , that this circumstance is not new to him ; that he has seen a great many pied bullocks struck by lightning in the same manner as this , both in his father 's time ( his father being of the same trade ) and since ; and that the texture of the skin under the white hair was always destroyed , though looking fair at first ; and , after a while , it became sore , throwing out putrid matter in pustules , like the small pox with us , which in time falls off , when the hair grows again as before ; and that the bullocks receive no further injury .
In this state I found Mr. ROGERS'S bullock , the second time I saw it , which was about a month after the first visit ; some of the scabs were then dropping off , and the hair was coming on afresh .
I asked Mr. TOOTH , whether he could recollect among those bullocks which he , or his father , had seen struck dead by lightning , any that were white or pied ?
But in this he could not satisfy me ; if he could , I think , it would have thrown some light on the subject .
I remember perfectly well , that all the cattle that I have seen , which were killed by lightning , were either black , brown , or red , without any white at all in them .
I must observe to you , that this bullock is both marked and affected by the stroke exactly alike on both sides .
I am , &amp;c. HAVING been favoured with these letters , by gentlemen of the strictest veracity , and likewise particularly curious in their enquiries , I have not the least reason to entertain a doubt of the facts they communicate ; and as they may , perhaps , be productive of some important discoveries , respecting the different colours of bodies as conductors of electricity , I imagined , that it would not be improper to lay them before the members of the Royal Society .
To the preceding paper I would beg leave to add the following queries : 1st , Are not the dark-coloured hairs stronger in their texture than the white or light-coloured ones ( a ) ?
2dly , If the dark-coloured hairs are the strongest , may not this be owing to their being more deeply rooted , and partaking more largely of that nutritive matter which produces and supports hair ?
And does not the change of dark-coloured hair to grey , in persons advanced in years , seem to favour this supposition ?
( a ) This is a fact so well known to house-painters , that they do not admit a dark hair into their brushes , as they would occasion a disagreeable roughness in their work .
J. COVENTRY .
3dly , If the above suppositions are allowed , may not any internal injury to the skin ( as a violent electric explosion passing through it ) prove more fatal to the white or light hair than to the black , red , or darker colours ?
Should the above queries be all acknowledged , by those gentlemen who have considered the subject , to be truths ; yet , I believe , they will scarcely be thought sufficient to account for the whole effect of lightning which has appeared in this case , and particularly for the edge of white hair adjoining to the red , which remained unhurt by it ; but as they may , perhaps , in some measure have contributed towards this phenomenon , I have barely mentioned them as suppositions , and suppositions only , which have occurred to me .
A SUBSEQUENT LETTER FROM MR. LAMBERT .
DEARSI R , Dec. 6 , 1774 .
IHAV E , according to your desire , enquired of Mr. TOOTH , whether he ever saw a stroke of lightning actually fall upon a pied bullock , so as to destroy the white hair , and show the evident marks of burning , leaving the red hair uninjured ?
He says , he never did ; nor can he recollect any one that has .
But he gives me an account of a pied horse of his being killed , four or five years since , in a stable adjoining to his house , by a stroke of lightning which happened in the night ; and being very great , Mr. TOOTH thinking it struck his house , immediately got up and went to the stable , when he saw his horse was struck , and almost dead to appearance , though it kept on its legs near half an hour before it expired .
The horse was pied white on the shoulder and most part of the head ; that is , all the forehead and nose , where the greatest force of the stroke came .
The hair was not burnt nor discoloured , only so loosened at the root , that it came off at the least touch .
And this is the case , Mr. TOOTH observes , with all he has seen or heard of , viz. the hair is never burnt , but the skin always affected , as I described it in my former letters .
In the above horse , Mr. TOOTH says , all the blood in the veins , under the white parts of the head , was quite stagnated , though he could perceive it to flow as usual in other parts of the body , under the brown hair ; and the skin , together with one side of the tongue , was parched and dried up to a greater degree than any he had ever seen before .
The horse stood in a stall close to the door of the stable , which was boarded on that side , and through them , he thinks , the lightning struck him .
I am , &amp;c. Extract of another Letter from Mr. LAMBERT , dated Oct. 10 , 1775 , with a Drawing No 3 .
IHERE send you another instance of the effect of lightning on a bullock of Mr. ALSE'S , at Glynd , which happened on the 20th of last month ; it is similar to the other I sent you in every respect , except that I think the stroke on this must have been greater , as the scarf-skin seems to be peeling off with the hair all over the rump , like the piece I have herewith sent , which came off from the hip .
I think too , that this is more curious , as all the red spots , even those small ones on the side , remain firm and smooth , without the least injury .
You will observe also , that , as in the former instance , after the lightning had passed the greatest diameter of the body , the white hair is left entire , particularly under the belly , on the legs , &amp;c. Mr. ALSE , having never seen nor heard of this wonderful phenomenon , could not conceive what was the matter with the bullock , till he sent for Mr. TOOTH , who immediately told him the cause .
I am , &amp;c. HAVING mentioned the foregoing particulars to my learned and ingenious friend Dr. A. FOTHERGILL , at Northampton , he has favoured me with some conjectures , which I shall take the liberty of annexing to this paper ; viz. ` ` The recent fact you mention , of the effects of lightning on the white hair of a bullock , is extremely curious , but seems difficult of solution .
Whether it can be explained from the difference of texture between red hair and white , is doubtful ; or whether there is not something peculiar in colours , as being conductors or non-conductors of electricity , may deserve enquiry .
The phlogiston , or inflammable principle , is thought to be the foundation of colour in bodies , and to abound in proportion to the intensity of the colour .
But phlogiston and the electric fluid are probably the same , or at least modifications of the same principle ; therefore , red bodies are perhaps replete with electric matter , while white bodies may be destitute of it ( b ) .
A body saturated with it cannot receive more , and may escape , while a neighbouring body , not calculated to receive it , may , on its admission , be destroyed ( c ) .
Or there may exist a chemical affinity between electricity and the different rays of light , which , in attracting some , and repelling others , may be the foundation of many curious phenomena .
But , while we admire the effects ; the habitudes and modus operandi of these subtle fluids may , perhaps , for ever elude the cognisance of our senses .
' ' ( b ) Many substances must certainly be excepted from this rule .
W. HENLY .
( c ) This effect of lightning generally happens to such bodies which , in some measure , resist its entrance , &amp;c. merely on account of their being imperfect conductors .
W. HENLY .
XXX .
Of

