440 Protostigmata in Ascidians .
By A. G. Huntsman , B.A. , M.B. , Biological Department , University of Toronto .
( Communicated by Prof. A. B. Maeallum , F.R.S. Received March 3 , \#151 ; Read April 24 , 1913 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE Grades of Protostigmata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 441 Protostigmatic Condition in various Groups ... ... ... . .
442 Factors of Stigmatogenesis ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 444 Origin of Stigmata in various Groups ... ... ... ... ... .
445 Summary and Literature ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
452 Introduction .
It has been shown that at a certain stage in the ontogeny of Ascidians there is usually a definite number of stigmata or gill slits , which are elongated dorsoventrally and arranged in a longitudinal series on each side of the pharynx .
To these the name protostigmata was given by Garstang in 1892 .
The stigmata of the adult differ from these in being usually very numerous , indefinite in number and elongated antero-posteriorly .
In 1904 Julin and Damas made two separate proposals to base the classification of the Tunicates on the condition of the protostigmata .
As these proposals differed rather widely from each other and from the current classifications based upon the adult condition , I have taken up the question as far as it concerns the Ascidians and have investigated the origin of the stigmata in a large number of genera .
I have been able to confirm for myself very many of the observations that have been published regarding the origin of the stigmata in the genera Holozoa [ Distaplia ] , Glavelina , Ciona , Gorella , Gcesira [ Molgula ] , Botryllus and Dendrodoa ( Styelopsis ) .
In addition I have investigated the genera Amaroucium , Polycitor [ .Distoma ] , Sycozoa [ Colella\ , Ascidiopsis ( very near Ascidiella and Phallusia , which have been studied by others ) , Glielyosoma , Styela , Boltenia , Pyura [ Cynthia pars ] and Tethyum [ Cynthia pars ] .
The last three genera belong to the family Tethyidse [ Cynthiidse ] , no members of which have been previously investigated as to the origin of the stigmata .
My interpretation of the course of development in these genera tends to show that the protostigmatic condition supports the classification advanced by Seeliger and revised by Hartmeyer.* * Bronn 's 'Kl .
u. Ordn .
des Tierreichs .
' Protostigmata in Ascidians .
Grades of Protostigmata .
In fig. 1 , C represents diagrammatically the left side of the pharynx of a young Ciona .
It can be clearly seen that there are two grades of protostigmata .
Counting from the anterior end ( left side ) the first , fourth , and fifth are longer than the second , third , and sixth .
The former are the first to " appear and they perforate the pharyngeal wall independently of each other .
They give rise to the latter three as indicated in the figure , by their ventral ends extending and turning upward .
They then divide at the angles .
De Selys and Damas ( 1901 ) have proposed the term primary protostigmata for the three arising by independent perforation and the term secondary protostigmata for the six resulting from their division .
But the fourth protostigma differs from the first and fifth in having its concave face forward and in turning forward and upward before division Fig. 1.\#151 ; Various types of protostigmatic condition .
The left side of the pharynx is shown , the anterior end being toward the left .
instead of backward and upward .
Willey ( 1893 ) , De Selys ( 1901 ) and Damas ( 1904 ) have recorded instances in Ciona and Ascidiella , in which the first and fourth protostigmata were continuous ventrally ( before the second and third had been formed ) .
Willey concluded from this that the first four protostigmata were derived from a single primary gill slit .
This view seems to be justified by the facts .
The fourth behaves as if it had been derived from the first in the same way that the sixth is derived from the fifth .
The fourth is equal in size to the first because it is derived from the latter at such an early stage , before perforation .
They are both able to repeat the process and thus form four stigmata before the change occurs that brings about the formation of the definitive stigmata .
The fifth is able to divide once only .
I conclude therefore that in Ciona the stigmatic rudiment or anlage divides into two parts placed one behind the other .
They correspond in position to VOL. LXXXVI.\#151 ; B. 2 K Mr. A. G. Huntsman .
[ Mar. 3 , the first and fifth .
These may be called the protostigmata of the first order or primary , using the term proposed by de Selys and Damas but in a somewhat different sense .
They correspond to a certain extent with the " primary gill slits " of Willey and the " fentes branchiales " of Julin ( 1904 ) .
This early division of the stigmatic rudiment produces elements with a similar orientation .
When they elongate to form the protostigmata , their concave surfaces are posterior .
The subdivision of the two primary protostigmata produces four protostigmata of the second order or secondary .
They correspond in position with the first , fourth , fifth , and sixth .
The two members of each pair are oriented differently , one being the reverse of the other .
The process of subdivision is repeated in the case of the first pair , giving four protostigmata of the third order or tertiary , namely , the first , second , third and fourth .
Here also of each pair one is the reverse of the other .
There are no Ascidians in which there has been shown to be further subdivision to form new protostigmata .
The protostigmata are formed in two ways .
First , by simple subdivision ; second , by modified subdivision , resulting in the intercalation of new stigmata .
By these same processes acting in the same order , the protostigmata are converted into the rows of definitive stigmata of the adult .
Frequently the two processes are not altogether distinct .
An intermediate method of subdivision may occur .
The Protostigmatic Condition in the Various Groups .
Julin and Damas have blazed the way for a comparison of the various kinds of stigmatogenesis to be found in Ascidians .
Both , however , have based their classifications on definite stages , and have more or less ignored the differences in the process .
Damas ( 1904 ) uses as a basis the final protostigmatic condition , and divides the Tunicata into the Mono- , Di- , Tetra- , Hexa- and Poly-prostigmata .
The Caesiridae [ Molgulidae ] are separated from the Tethyidae [ Cynthiidae ] , Styelidae , etc. , and placed with the Cionidae , Phallusiidae , etc. And , as I shall show subsequently , some of the Tethyidae would have to be placed in the Hexa- and others in the Poly-prostigmata .
Damas also places the Pyrosomatidae and Doliolidae with the Tethyidae , etc. These are unnatural groupings .
Julin ( 1904a ) uses as a basis the number of stigmata that perforate independently and calls them " fentes branchiales."* He makes three distinct groups : those with one pair of " fentes branchiales , " those with two pairs , and those with three pairs .
To the first group belong the pelagic Tunicata , 1913 .
] Protostigmata in Ascidians .
Appendicularians , Salpidae , Doliolidae and Pyrosomatidae ; in the second group are the Krikobranchia and the Perophoridae ; and in the third group all the simple Ascidians .
These groups are natural enough , but I cannot agree with his interpretation of the development in many forms .
Having to prove that all the stigmata of the adult are derived from a limited number of first stigmata , he puts a rather forced construction on many of the facts .
If his method were followed out fully , all the stigmata in each and every Tunicate could be derived from a single pair of stigmata .
I think that this is a legitimate conception , but it does not lead to any divisions within the group .
The Appendicularian is without doubt a primitive form .
The Doliolidae , Pyrosomatidae and Ascidiaceae show remarkable diversity in the methods by which a large number of stigmata are derived from a single pair corresponding with those of the Appendicularian .
It is by studying these methods that we get an insight into the affinities of the various forms .
Mere numbers at any definite stage are of subordinate importance to the process .
The rather definite separation of the process into two parts , ( 1 ) the formation of a longitudinal series of protostigmata , and ( 2 ) the transformation of these into transverse rows , makes it possible to institute a comparison of the early stages alone .
In fig. 1 I have represented diagrammatically various types of protostigmatic condition , indicating not only the number but also the method of origin .
A represents the condition in the Krikobranchia , a group consisting of the majority of the compound Ascidians .
I agree with Julin and Damas in considering that two protostigmata are represented in this group .
True protostigmata are never seen .
The process of division into definite stigmata begins before perforation , as will be shown subsequently .
The two protostigmata are evidently of the second order , and represent a single primary protostigma .
B represents the condition in Perophora , modified from the description by Damas .
Four protostigmata of the third order are present , representing a single primary one .
Here also typical protostigmata do not occur , and the interpretation is doubtful , as will be shown subsequently .
C represents the condition in other Dictyobranchiates ( Ciona , Phal-lusia , etc. ) .
This condition has been described above .
There are four tertiary protostigmata , representing a single primary , and behind these two secondary ones , representing another primary .
These forms are peculiar in possessing two primary protostigmata .
D shows the condition in the Caesiridae and some Tethyidae ( Pyura and Tetliyum \Cynthia ] ) .
There are six secondary , representing three primary protostigmata .
Mr. A. G. Huntsman .
[ Mar. 3 , In E is shown the condition in some Tethyidae ( .Boltenia ) and some Styelidae ( Styela ) .
There are four secondary , followed by an indefinite number of primary .
F represents the condition in some Styelidae ( Denclrodoa ( Styelopsis ) ) and in the Botryllidae .
There are an indefinite number of primary and no secondary protostigmata .
Julin has given an entirely different account of the origin of the protostigmata in Dendrodoa ( Styelopsis ) from that given by Damas .
My investigation of this genus is in accord with the account given by Damas .
It seems possible that JulhTs material has been wrongly identified as belonging to this genus .
Damas ( with Garstang and Seeliger ) considers the single row of stigmata in the Pyrosomatidse and Doliolidse as being a series of protostigmata .
Julin ( with Lahille ) considers the row as homologous with one of the transverse rows of stigmata in an Ascidian .
I favour the latter view .
Damas ' objection that the longitudinal bars of Pyrosoma would , in that case , not be homologous with those of Ascidians is valid , but they are readily homologised with the internal transverse vessels of Holozoa and of many simple Ascidians , as done by Lahille ( 1890 ) .
The series of fig. 1 shows gradation in two respects .
There is a continuous increase in the number of primary protostigmata , and , excepting A , there is a continuous decrease in the ability of the protostigmata to subdivide , this decrease being greater posteriorly than anteriorly .
The variation shown in the families Tethyidae and Styelidae is noteworthy .
The former family contains some forms with a limited number ( three ) and others with an indefinite number of protostigmata .
Up to the present , a relatively small proportion of the existing genera have been investigated .
Further studies will doubtless show even greater variations .
The Factors of Stigmatogenesis .
In interpreting the various stages that may be examined , it is important to keep in view the factors involved in the process .
The Ascidian pharynx offers a splendid field for a study of the processes of development , since great variations are shown in the different groups , and the processes are practically confined to two dimensions , i.e. one plane .
As the basis of the process we have , of course , the properties of the cells and their interaction with each other and with the surrounding water .
These determine the ways in which the cells divide and arrange themselves to give the gross characters that are seen .
Certain gross factors ( depending upon the above ) , which vary in the different groups , may be mentioned .
2913 .
] Protostigmata in Ascidians .
445 1 .
Growth.\#151 ; This takes place chiefly at the ends of the stigmata , and results in elongation .
2 .
Perforation.\#151 ; This is the appearance of an opening in a fused area of the pharyngeal and atrial walls .
It may occur early or late .
3 .
Subdivision.\#151 ; This is the division of a stigma by the growth across it of a bridge .
It may occur early or late in the growth of a stigma ; it may occur at a varying point on the stigma ; it may occur before or after perforation .
4 .
Orientation or Direction of Growth.\#151 ; This factor determines the shapes and the positions of the stigmata with reference to each other .
It depends upon equality or inequality of growth of the cells on either side of a stigma .
Great variation is shown in this factor .
By variations in these four factors there results the infinite diversity in the stigmata of Ascidians .
A comparatively slight variation may make a great difference in the final picture , and a similar end result may be attained by following quite different paths .
One should avoid giving too much significance to certain differences shown .
It is certainly astonishing to see , in a young colony of Botryllus , the first blastozoid provided with four rows of minute definitive stigmata that have arisen by independent perforation , and the oozoid beside it with six large protostigmata that never become converted into definitive stigmata .
The Origin of the Stigmata the Various Groups .
In fig. 2 the methods of development of the protostigmata in the various groups are schematically represented .
They all are seen to be derived from a common starting point , a single stigma or rudiment not yet perforated .
The stigmata represented in solid black are those that have not yet perforated .
Many of them are hypothetical .
Usually a dark mass can be seen at the point where a stigma will shortly perforate .
Perhaps the simplest method is the fourth of the figure , that occurring in the Botryllidse and some Styelidte .
The protostigmata appear in order beginning in front .
Each stigma is formed by independent perforation at a point behind the middle of the previously formed one .
Julin ( 1904a ) has maintained that in Dendrodoa ( Styelopsis ) grossularia the protostigmata arise in a manner analogous to that of Ciona described above .
Both Damas ( 1904 ) and Fechner ( 1907 ) describe their origin by independent perforation and give excellent figures .
In an allied species ( Dendrodoa carnea ) I have found no indication of intercalation or of new protostigmata being formed from pre-existing ones , the conditions being the same as figured by Damas and Fechner .
Mr. A. G. Huntsman .
[ Mar. 3 , \ \ \ \ \ / / / / ' / / .
\#187 ; \N \ ' o o \ / !/ !-O O . . . .
o o 0 0 ' ' oooo 0 0 OO __OOOD o 0 O o o CZP 0 0 ' ^ CD CD .
* o o _ .
- - O O o o CO CO nn O 0 0 0 o O o o___ oooo M ft .
O o .
oooo o O o o o o o o o o o o t f f f .
0 \#166 ; 0 O O _ _ _o o o G . . . .
o o o o . . . .
o o o o , 1 T T . . . .
f t r f Fig. 2.\#151 ; Schematic representation of variations in early stages of development of stigmata in 1913 .
] Protostigmata in Ascidians .
f Ccesira \lt ; Eugyra \JPyura Caesiridae Tethyum Tethyidae f Boltenia \\ Styda ^ \gt ; Pty chobranchia .
f Dendrodoa | Botryllus \gt ; Styelidae Botryllidae ' Chelyosoma Gorella .
Ascidiopsis .
^ Ascidiella Phallusia Phallusiopsis ^ Ciona \gt ; Chelyosomatidae ^ \gt ; Phallusiidae Cionidae \gt ; Dictyobranchia .
Perophora Perophoridae f Clavelina { { Archiascxdia ) } Clavelinidae T Holozoa I Cystodites | Sycozoa \APolycitor ) \gt ; \gt ; -Polycitoridae y Krikobranchia .
f Polycitor ^ \_Amaroucium Synoicidae Ascidians .
The stigmata of the left side are shown , the anterior end being toward the left .
Mr. A. G. Huntsman .
[ Mar. 3 , The number of protostigmata is indefinite .
Damas gives more than 15 , Julin 12 at least .
In the Botryllidae the number is smaller ; from 5 to 7 have been observed .
Their method of formation has not been established .
The majority appear about the time of metamorphosis , when observation is difficult .
I can affirm independent perforation for the sixth in a species of Botryllus from Naples .
The others in size show no evidence of intercalation .
In the Caesiridae we have in many respects the other extreme .
The number is definite and intercalation is regular .
Three stigmata perforate in the usual order and each one by turning upward at the ventral end and dividing gives rise to a second placed immediately behind it , as is shown in the first series of stages in the figure .
Six protostigmata arranged in three pairs are thus formed .
The same method is followed by Pyura haustor , one of the Tethyidse .
I have observed in this species the derivation of the second and fourth from the first and third , but not of the sixth from the fifth .
Only six protostigmata are formed and their first subdivision to form the definitive stigmata is the same as that which has been described for the Caesiridae .
A slight modification of this method is to be found in another Tethyid , Tethyimi [ Cynthia ] pyriforme .
The turned up portion of the stigma is cut off very early , probably before the opening of the stigma has extended into it .
I have not observed all the stages but can affirm that the second is intercalated from the first and that only six protostigmata are formed .
Also in the earliest stage examined only one stigma is present .
A further modification occurs in the genera Boltenia ( B. ovifera and B. villosa ) and Sty da ( S. gibbsii ) of which I have examined a full series of stages .
The second and fourth are formed by the abstraction of the ventral growing tips of the first and third .
Subsequently these perforate and extend dorsoventrally .
The fifth and all succeeding protostigmata arise in order by independent perforation at points along the middle of the side of the pharynx .
They give no indication of being derived from pre-existing ones .
Their number is indefinite .
I have observed stages with 11 in Styela and with 9 in Boltenia .
The two genera differ greatly in the method by which the definitive stigmata are formed from the protostigmata .
The method just described for these two genera is an approach to the method of Dendrodoa and the Botryllidae .
The third primary protostigma has lost its ability to form a new one by intercalation .
If the first and second likewise lost that power we would have the condition in Dendrodoa .
All the forms so far considered belong to the Order Ptychobranchia .
This group is therefore characterised by having three or more primary protostigmata , which perforate in regular order .
Secondary protostigmata may 1913 .
] Protostigmata in Ascidians .
or may not be formed and are never more numerous than six .
This Order is sharply marked off from the other two Orders .
Inside the Order , the four methods of formation of protostigmata do not correspond with the four families of the Order .
The Tethyids exhibit three methods and the Styelids two .
But comparative anatomy has shown that some of the Tethyidae approach the Caesiridae and others approach the Styelidae .
And in a similar way the Styelidae show affinities with both the Tethyidae and Botryllidae .
The protostigmatic condition therefore corroborates the classification based upon the adult condition .
There are two distinct methods in the Dictyobranchia .
The most general one is that described above for Ciona .
The first stage is the appearance of two stigmata of about the same size .
From their occasional connection with each other and from their subsequent behaviour , they are very evidently halves of an original single element which is doubtless homologous with the first stigma of the Ptychobranchiate .
They are secondary protostigmata , corresponding with one primary .
Their probable history before perforation is indicated in the figure .
The original element has turned up at its lower end in the usual fashion and then divided into two .
The two secondary protostigmata subdivide into four tertiary , and at the same time a second primary appears and divides into two secondary ones .
The new* stigmata are connected for a short time with the old in Ciona , and this has been showTn in the figure .
In Ascidiopsis ( and doubtless in other genera as well ) the intercalated stigmata are formed as has been described above for Styela and Boltenia .
Stigmatic material is separated from the lower ends of the old stigmata , and subsequently cavities appear in the new parts .
This is only a slight modification of the process occurring in Ciona .
In Peropliora the accounts that have been given do not agree .
Julin states that the stigmata arise essentially in the same way as in Distaplia , but gives no figures .
Damas has figured the process and interprets it in such a way as to bring it into line with the condition in other Dictyobranchiates .
Not having an opportunity of examining this genus , I have followed Damas ' account .
The figures for this genus given in the scheme of fig. 2 are from Damas .
The two stigmata that are the first to appear evidently correspond with the similar two of other Dictyobranchiates , that is , they are two secondary protostigmata representing a single primary .
By division and intercalation four tertiary are formed .
The process is repeated dorsally as shown in the figure .
As a result of this curious repetition the second and third protostigmata are each represented by a dorsal and a ventral part derived from the dorsal and ventral ends of the first and fourth .
Damas 450 Mr. A. G. Huntsman .
[ Mar. 3 , has compared the pharynx of Perophora with the anterior two-thirds of the pharynx of Ciona .
The Perophoridae differ , therefore , from the other Dictyobranchiates in having only one primary protostigma instead of two .
They are also peculiar as to the method of origin of the second and third protostigmata or protostigmatic rows as they should be called .
It may be that this method is to be compared with that in Holozoa [ Distaplia ] as maintained by Julin .
In th6 Krikobranchiates the process is much modified by the division into definitive stigmata occurring before or at the time of perforation of the protostigmata .
This is foreshadowed in Perophora .
In Clavelina the first stage is that with two stigmata , which appear simultaneously .
The manner in which these stigmata are curved and also their subsequent behaviour show that one is the reverse of the other .
They are evidently homologous with the two first stigmata of the Dictyobranchiate , as has been argued by Julin and Damas .
They are secondary protostigmata , representing one primary .
By equal subdivision and also by budding at the ends ( these buds perforate after separation ) two rows of stigmata are forhied .
This is the division into definitive stigmata .
There is a tendency for this to occur before perforation of the protostigmata .
By a transverse division of all the stigmata of a row the number of rows is doubled .
The beginning of this process is shown for Clavelina in the last stage in the figure .
This is the usual Ascidian method for increasing the number of rows during the later stages of development .
It occurs relatively early here , and we shall see that it occurs still earlier in other Krikobranchiates .
In the figured scheme of the development in Clavelina the hypothetical processes occurring before perforation are the same as for the Dictyobranchiate with the addition of the tendency of the protostigmata to divide into definitive stigmata before perforation .
In Archiascidia , according to Julin ( 1904\amp ; ) , the development of the stigmata is essentially the same as in Clavelina .
It differs from the latter in the failure of the two primary rows of stigmata to divide .
Of the remaining Krikobranchiates that have been studied , Holozoa [ .Distaplia\ shows the simplest condition .
This has been represented in the lowest but one series of stages in the figure .
Two stigmata appear simultaneously .
They are evidently homologous with the two first ; in Clavelina , although there is no very definite indication of one being the reverse of the other .
They are to be considered as two secondary protostigmata representing one primary .
They elongate and divide dorsoventrally , and about the same time four new stigmata perforate just below .
By new perforations on the ventral side , and at a later stage on the dorsal side as well , four 1913 .
] Protostiymata in Ascidians .
transverse rows of stigmata are formed .
These are the definitive stigmata .
Not only have the protostigmata divided into definitive stigmata before perforation , but also the doubling of the number of rows by a parallel division of all the stigmata in each row has been nearly completed before perforation .
Only one stigma of each row ( the first one to appear ) is still undivided at perforation .
A species of Sycozoa [ Colella ] that I have been able to examine shows a slightly more advanced condition .
Usually the first stigma of each row to appear is nearly or altogether divided before perforation , the apertures of the stigmata resulting from the division not connecting with each other .
Daumezon ( 1909 ) states that in Cystodites the process seems to be the same as in Holozoa , but that in Polycitor ( Eudistoma ) the second of the two first stigmata to appear does not divide , and as a result only three rows are formed instead of four .
The adult and larva of his species show an imperforate area in the posterior quarter of the pharynx corresponding to the absent fourth row .
In a Pacific species of Polycitor ( .Eudistoma ) with three rows of stigmata , but , as far as I can see , without any very definite imperforate area , only three rows of stigmata are formed in the larva .
The pharyngo-atrial wall projects into the pharynx in the form of a ridge , the summit of which is the dividing line between the two protostigmatic areas .
One row of stigmata appears on the dorsal or anterior side of the ridge and two on the ventral or posterior .
In this case it is very evidently the first protostigmatic area that has failed to divide .
I have not been able to find any connection between any of the stigmata of the two posterior rows .
Complete division has evidently taken place some time before perforation .
In two species of Polycitor ( .Polycitor ) in the adult blastozoids of which there are many rows of stigmata , two rows appear on each side of the ridge in the larva .
All four rows perforate independently of each other .
The first stigma of the third row appears a short time before the first of the fourth row , but I have not been able to see any connection between them .
This method of origin is shown in the lowest series of stages of the figure .
In the Didemnidse I have not yet examined larvae of the necessary age to determine whether all the stigmata perforate independently or whether there is some division of the stigmata , as in Holozoa .
The stages that I have seen point to an agreement with Polycitor ( Polycitor ) .
In Amaroucium , one of the Synoicidse , two rows appear on each side of the pharyngo-atrial ridge , and I have found no evidence of connection between any of the stigmata .
Their origin corresponds with the lowest series in the figure .
The Dictyobrancliia and Krikobranchia agree in many points .
They differ from the Ptychobranchia in having only one or two primary protostigmata Mr. A. G. Huntsman .
[ Mar. 3 , instead of three or more ; also in the fact that the first primary divides into two secondary before perforation .
The Dictyobranchia differ from the Krikobranchia in that the first primary protostigma divides into four tertiary .
The Krikobranchia are peculiar in the great abbreviation of the development .
True protostigmata can scarcely be said to occur .
They divide into definitive stigmata before perforation .
It might be pointed out that the division of the two secondary protostigmata into four rows in Holozoa is not absolutely distinct from the division of the two secondary into four tertiary in the Dictyobranchia .
Perophora exhibits an intermediate condition .
A protostigma corresponds with a row of definitive stigmata .
The division of a protostigma corresponds with the doubling of a row of definitive stigmata .
Different methods are followed in the two cases , since the condition of the element differs in the two cases .
Summary .
The genesis of the stigmata affords a proper basis for an understanding of the structure of the adult pharynx .
A classification based upon the adult structure and development of the pharynx shows marked agreement with the current classification based upon the adult structure of the whole body .
The absolute number of protostigmata in each form is not as good a basis for classification as the number plus the method of formation .
Important differences in the method occur .
Passing from the Krikobranchia through the Dictyobranchia and Ptychobranchia , a continuous increase in the number of primary protostigmata and a decrease in their ability to subdivide can be seen .
Among the new genera studied may be noticed the following:\#151 ; Tethyidce [ Cynthiidce ] .
Pyura.\#151 ; The protostigmata develop in the same way as in Ccesira [ Molgula ] .
Tethyum.\#151 ; The development is a modification of that in Ccesira .
The intercalated stigmata arise by abstrictions from the growing points of the ventral ends of the first stigmata .
Boltenia.\#151 ; An indefinite number of protostigmata are formed , all arising by perforation except the second and fourth , which are intercalated and are formed by the process described for Tethyum .
Styelidce .
Styela.\#151 ; The protostigmatic condition is the same as for Boltenia .
Polycitoridce .
' Polycitor ( Polycitor).\#151 ; Four rows of stigmata arise by independent perforation .
1913 ] Protostigmata Ascidians .
Synoicidce .
Amaroucium.\#151 ; The process is the same as for the last .
I am indebted to the members of the Biological Board of Canada for providing me with the facilities for collecting material at the Dominion Pacific and Atlantic Stations .
Nearly all my material was obtained at those stations .
LITERATURE REFERENCES .
1904 .
Damas , D. , " Contribution h l'Etude des Tuniciers , " 'Arch , de Biol./ vol. 20 , p. 745 .
1909 .
Daumezon , G. , " Contributions h l'Etude des Synascidies du Golfe de Marseille , " ' Bull .
Scient .
de la Fr. et Belg./ vol. 42 , p. 269 .
1907 .
Fechner , P. , " Beitrage sir Kenntnis der Kiemenspaltenbildung der Ascidien/ ' 'Zeit .
Wiss .
Zool./ vol. 86 , p. 523 .
1892 .
Garstang , W. , " On the Development of the Stigmata in Ascidians , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc./ vol. 51 , p. 505 .
* 1904a .
Julin , C. , " Recherches sir la Phylogenkse des Tuniciers .
Developpement de l'Appareil branchial , " ' Zeit .
Wiss .
Zool./ vol. 74 , p. 544 .
19046 .
Julin , C. , " Recherches sir la Phylogen\amp ; se des Tuniciers .
Archiascidia neapoli-tana , nov .
gen .
, nov .
sp./ ' ' Mt .
Stat. Neapel./ vol. 16 , p. 489 .
1890 .
Lahille , F. , ' Recherches sir les Tuniciers des C6tes de France .
' Toulouse .
1901 .
De Selys Longchamp , M. , " Etude du Developpement de la branchie chez Corella avec un note sir la Formation des Protostigmates chez Ciona et Ascidiella " ' Arch , de Biol./ vol. 17 , p. 673 .
1901 .
De Selys Longchamp , M. , et Damas , D. , " Recherches sir le Developpement post-embryonnaire et l'Anatomie definitive de Molgula ampulloides/ ' 'Arch , de Biol./ vol. 17 , p. 385 .
1893 .
Willey , A. , " Studies on the Protochordata .
I.\#151 ; On the Origin of the Branchial Stigmata , etc. , in Ciona intestinalis , Linn. , with Remarks on Clavelina lepadi-formis , " ' Quart .
Journ. Micr .
Sci./ vol. 34 , p. 317 .

