Corrections to the Reductions of LieuterLant Foster 's Observations on Atmospherical Refractions at Port Bowen ; with Addenda to the Table of Magnetic Intensities at the same Place .
By Lieutenant Henry Foster , R.N. F.R.S. Read March 22 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 122 .
] The error of which this paper contains a correction , consists in the adoption of one exact second in arc , for the value of a division of the long level of the repeating circle with which the observations were made by the author for determining the amount of atmospheric refraction at Port Bowen , an account of which is published in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1826 , Part IV .
; whereas the true value is 10*'9 in arc .
The error was discovered by Captain Kater , who had occasion to use the instrument , and by him communicated to the author , who , immediately took measures to ascertain the fact ; and having , in Captain Kater 's presence , convinced himself of its reality , hastened to make the necessary recomputations of the Tables affected by it , and to submit them , so corrected , to the Society ; explaining at the same time the error to have arisen from erroneous information , given him at the time of receiving the instrument , which being the same with that used by Captain Sabine in his pendulum experiments , he took no steps to examine the point ; as it never once occurred to him that there could be a doubt on the subject .
The Tables affected by this error are the 7th , 8th , 9th , 10th , 11th , and 12th ; and the corrections , which fortunately in the three former Tables do not exceed 6"1 , and in the three latter do not amount to 2 " , are stated .
The author observes , in a postscript , that the observations given by Lieutenant Ross , at the end of the paper alluded to , must be now wholly rejected , in consequence of the original observations involving the erroneous datum dependent on the level being left on board the Furyv at the time of her loss .
He concludes by requesting the Society 's acceptance of the thermometer employed by Captain Parry and himself in the observations in question , which was prepared with every possible care by Mr. Daniell for the purpose .

