On the Parallax of the fixed Stars .
By John Pond , Esq. , Astronomer Royal , F.R.S. Read February 20 , 1817 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1817 , p. 158 .
] Dr. Brinkley , of the Observatory of Dublin , having noticed for several years past a periodical deviation of several fixed stars from their mean places , strongly indicating the existence in them of annual parallax , the author was induced to institute a series of observations upon the subject , the results of which are submitted to the Royal Society in the present communication .
Being unable to devote the mural circle , erected at the Royal Observatory in 1812 , entirely to this investigation , the Astronomer Royal employed two ten-feet telescopes , fixed to stone piers , and directed to the particular stars whose parallax was suspected , and furnished with micrometers for the purpose of comparing them with other stars passing throughl the same field .
The question of parallax is , theoretically speaking , rather curious than important ; but with regard to the state of practical astronomy the case is very different , and , as far as relates to the natural history of the sidereal system , it is a subject of interest to ascertain whether the distances of the nearest fixed stars can be numerically expressed from satisfactory data , or whether it be so immeasurably great as to exceed all human powers either to conceive or determine .
The principal stars observed by Dr. Brinkley were , a Lyrse , a Aquilse , a Cygni .
The mean of forty observations of a Lyr ; e , made by the Astronomer Royal between June 22 and August 21 , gave for the north polar distance of that star 510 23 ' 0 " 278 .
The mean of twenty observations nearer the period of opposition gave 510 23 ' 0"`468 .
The mean of thirty winter observations is 51ยง 23 ' 0"'872 .
The discordance , therefore , between the winter and summer observations does not exceed 0 ' 6 , which is only one third the discordance observed by Dr. Brinkley .
With a Cygni the total discordance in favour of parallax was 0"'556 ; also only one third that observed by Dr. Brinkley ; and with a Aquilae it is less than 0"`5 , equal only to one fourth of the discordance observed by Dr. Brinkley .
From these and other observations detailed in the paper , the Astronomer Royal observes , that in the three stars supposed by Dr. Brinkley to have the greatest parallax , the discordance between the summer and winter observations is not less than 0"'5 , and scarcely exceeds 0"75 : and that although these quantities are much less than those found by Dr. Brinkley , they appear to be equally independent of accidental error .
The author , however , is not inclined to refer the cause of the differences to parallax , for they are sensibly increased by direct comparison with an opposite star , as with Capella , in which the maximum of parallax is nearly as great as in a Aquilwe ; and it is very unlikely that the parallax of one star should exceed.5 ' , and that of the other be an insensible quantity .
Moreover , all these stars pass the meridian about the time of the winter solstice at their maximum of parallax ; and in proportion as stars do not possess this property , both the Astronomer Royal and Dr. Brinkley either find a much smaller discordance , or none at all ; the author accordingly is inclined to look for some explanation of the difficulties in this peculiar circumstance .
Tables are annexed to this paper , showing the method of computing the equation , or index error , applicable to the north polar distances .

