272 Mr. Gore on Thermo-Electric Properties of Liquids .
[ Mar. 28 , to the intra-placental maternal blood-spaces ; the form and structure of the chorionic villi : and to the relation of the maternal blood to the capillaries of the villi .
The result of this comparison proves that the Macacus and human female closely correspond in the form of the uterus , and in the arrangement of the foetal membranes , and that they both possess a discoid placenta , which in the Macacus is divided into two lobes , but is not so divided in the human placenta .
In the arrangement and relative position of the constituent parts of the placenta they also correspond ; and although some differences of detail in the characters of some of the structures occur , yet , in the main features of construction , makroscopic as well as microscopic , they have a close resemblance to each other .
V. " On the Thermo-Electric Properties of Liquids .
" By G. Gore , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received March 12 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) In this communication , the author has described an improved apparatus for examining the thermo-electric properties of liquids , by the use of which , with the precautions stated , all sources of error in such experiments appear to be removed ; he has also described a number of experiments he has made with it , and the results obtained .
By employing a sufficient number and variety of electrically-conducting solutions , of acids , salts , and alkalies , in those experiments , he has discover^ several exceptions to the usual effect he had formerly obtained , viz. , that acid liquids are thermo-electro-positive , and alkaline ones thermo-electro-negative ; and has sketched a diagram representing the thermo-electric behaviour of heated platinum in three of the exceptional liquids .
Reasoning upon the satisfactory results obtained , he concludes :\#151 ; 1st .
That the electric currents are not produced by chemical action ; 2nd .
Nor by a temporary disassociation of the constituents of the liquid ; 3rd .
Nor by the action of gases occluded in the .
metals ; 4th .
But that they are produced purely and solely by the heat , and that heat disappears in producing them ; 5th .
That they are immediate or direct effects of the heat , and that aqueous conducting liquids , therefore , possess true thermo-electric properties : 6th .
That the current is a result of a difference of thermic action at the surfaces of the two pieces of metal : 7th .
That it is a product of a suitable molecular structure of the liquid , a change of such structure resulting from alteration of temperature , and a direct conversion of heat into electricity ; and 8th .
That the circumstance which is most influential in Presents .
1878 .
] enabling heat to produce the currents , and most determines their direction and amount , is a suitable molecular structure of the liquid .
By means of the apparatus and process described , he has discovered irregular molecular changes in several o\#163 ; the liquids examined ; and as molecular changes are the bases of various physical and chemical alterations , he suggests the use of this apparatus and method as a new one for discovering anomalous molecular alterations , and other coincident physical and chemical ones , in electrically conducting liquids ; and for detecting differences of electric potential between metals and liquids at different temperatures .
By reasoning upon the different results obtained , he concludes also as probable , that when , a piece of metal is simply immersed in a suitable liquid , a change of temperature occurs ; and this ( if correct* ) is a parallel fact to that of the production of electricity by simple contact only .
The results also support the contact theory of voltaic electricity .
The paper concludes with several suggestions of new lines of research suggested by the experiments , one of which is the construction of a new thermo-electro-motor .
Presents , March7 , 1878 .
Transactions .
Brussels:\#151 ; Academy Royale des Sciences .
Bulletin .
2e Serie .
Tome XLIV .
No. 12 .
8vo .
1877 .
Annuaire .
44e Annee .
12mo .
The Academy .
Calcutta:\#151 ; Asiatic Society of Bengal .
Journal .
Yol .
XLV .
Part 2 .
Index .
Yol .
XLYI .
Part 2 .
No. 2 .
8vo .
1877 .
Proceedings , 1877 .
No. 6 .
8vo .
The Society .
Cherbourg:\#151 ; Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles .
Memoires .
Tome XX .
8vo .
1876-77 .
The Society .
Edinburgh:\#151 ; Royal Scottish Society of Arts .
Transactions .
Yol .
IX .
Part 4 .
8vo .
1876 .
The Society .
Frankfort-on-Main:\#151 ; Never Zoologische Gesellschaft .
Der Zoolo-gische Garten .
Jahrgang 18 .
No. 1-3 .
8vo .
1877 .
The Society .
Milan:\#151 ; Real Osservatorio di Brera .
Pubblicazioni .
No. 12 .
Su alcuni temporali osservati nell'Italia Superiore ; Relazione del Prof. Paolo Frisiani .
No. 13 .
Sopra alcuni scandagli del Cielo ; Annotazioni del Prof. Giovanni Celoria .
4to .
Milano , 1878 .
The Observatory .
* Since writing the paper the Author has proved , by experiment , that when a sheet of platinum is immersed in various saline , alkaline , and acid liquids , a slight rise of temperature takes place ; the solutions already employed , in which such a result occurs , are enumerated .

