II .
A Letter of the Reverend Mr. John Sackette , A. M. to Dr. Brook Taylor , Reg. Soc. Secr. Giving an Account of a very uncommon sinking of the Earth , near Folkestone in Kent .
SIR , I Am about to give you the best Account I can of what is remarkable , and known almost to all hereabouts , concerning the pressing forward of the Cliffs , and sinking of the Hills in the Neighbourhood of our Town of Folkestone .
I begin with giving you a Sketch of the Situation of the Country .
This I shall do by describing a strait Road from what we call the MooringRock , to Tarlingham-House ; the manner of the Country , as to the Rising and Falling , being much the same , for about a Mile on either Hand of the Road described .
I H G K E F C AD B L .A .
The Mooring-Rock , about half-way between high and low Water-Mark .
B. The Foot of the Cliff~ 50 Yards from the Rock .
C. The Top of the Cliff , about 6 Yards high .
C D. A Plain of 50 Yards .
D E. A cragged Cliff , of 60 Yards high .
E F~ A Plain above a Mile long .
F G. An Hill of sleep Ascent , near half a Mile .
G H. The Land from the Top of the Hill to the House , near a Mile .
I. Tarlingham House , lying near 2 Miles and a half N. N. W. from the Rock .
EG H. A Line of Sight .
KB L. The Shore at High Water Mark .
I hope Sir you will understand the Situation of the Place pretty well , tho ' I have not observed exact Proportion in the Sketch ; which the Paper would not allow after I had taken the Rise of the Cliffs so high , which I thought proper for the more particular Describing of them .
The Mooring-Rock ( tho ' it lies surrounded with great numbers of other Rocks ) is it self a most noted one , known by this Name , time out of mind .
At this Vessels use to be moored , while they are loading other Rocks ; which they take from hence , not only for our own Pier Heads , but for those of Dover Pier ; and a very great Quantity of them were Shipped , in the time of Oliver 's Usurpation , and carried to Dunkirk , for the Service of that Harbour .
This Rock has remained fixed thus , for the memory of Man ; and old Men have observed , that , for forty Years and upwards , the distance between it and the Foot of the lesser Clist A B. has been much the same ; neither can they be much ~ in their Guess , the Distance being so small .
Tho ' there seems nothing extraordinary in this , yet its what they take special Notice of , to their great surprise : for they say , and prove by good Marks and Tokens , kens , that the lesser Cliff BC has been constantly falling in , insomuch , that from time to time , in their Memory , near 10 Rods forward to the Land has been carried away by the Sea .
From whence , as it appears that the Plain between the Top of the lesser Cliff and the Foot of the higher CD has been formerly double the Breadth that it is at present , so the distance been the Rock and the Foot of the lesser or lower Cliff A B. should have increased in Proportion , and would have been double at present , to what it has been formerly : But this Distance remaining the same ( as is above noted ) or rather less ( in the Opinion of many ) is what is greatly wondered at : nor can it be accounted for otherwise , than by supposing that the Land pressing forward into the Sea is washed away by the high Tides ; and , as often as this happens , presses forward again .
This pressing forward of the Land into the Sea , would be incredible , were it not shown to be matter of Fact ; and that not only at this one Place of Observation , but by like Observations all along this Coast , as far as the Situation continues the same .
Now , Sir , let us climb both these cragged Cliffs , and place our selves at the Top of the higher One , at the Point E. And ~ here we are to observe , that ( as old Men inform us ) upward of forty Years ago , not so much as the Top of Tarlingham-House could be discerned , neither from hence , nor yet a good Distance off at Sea ; but it discovered it self by degrees , till at this Day , not only the whole House , but a great Tract of Land below it , is plainly to be seen , as in the Line of Sight EG H. The Tract of Land is more in Proportion than described in the Sketch , between the Point at H and the House .
In this there can be no Fallacy ; and we can ascribe it to nothing less than the sinking of the Hills ( for their Tops could never wear away considerably , being always covered with Grass , and never broken up by the Plough or otherwise ) .
These Hills are all of Chalk , and have probably very large Caverns within , Springs of Water always flowing plentifully from the foot of them ; and I have had it observed to me , that upon their Tops frequent Cracks have been taken notice of .
Whatever be the Cause of it , it is not to be doubted but that these Hills are greatly sunk .
And this sinking of the Hills , the People at this Place believe , forces the Cliffs and all the Land forward into the Sea .
The Cliffs consist of great ragged Sand-Stones till we come to near a Yard ( at some places more ) of the Bottom ; then we meet with what they call a Slip , i. e. a slippery sort of Clay always wet .
Upon this Slip at the bottom , they presume that the hard Stony Land above slides forwards toward the Sea , as a Ship is launched upon tallow 'd Planks .
I thought it proper to give you this account of the Nature of the Earth ; and withal to mingle with it the Opinion of the People , that you might perceive they are so fat from doubting of the Truth of what is abovewritten , that they endeavour to find some Solution of it , as being a thing not more strange than true .
If I should take all the Hands that can be got to testify the Truth of this , it would make too large a Roll , so I shall chuse only a few of the most ancient and of best Credit .
I assure my self that I have Credit enough with you to be believed upon my own single Subscription , that I am , SIR , Yours , Folkestone in Kent , February 24 , 1715-16~ John Sackette .
We whose Names are underwritten do hereby testify the Truth of the Matters of Fact in the within written Letter related , Benjamin Master , a Jurat of the Town , aged 74 , Robert Hammond , Senior , a Jurat of the Town , aged 77 .
William Godden , a Fisherman , aged 74 .
Thomas Marsh , a Fisherman , aged 72 .
William Hall , a Fisherman , aged 73 .
James Godden , a Fisherman , upward of 60 .

