]\gt ; Mr. J. Griffiths .
Doubly Periodic Elliptic III .
" " Abstract of some Results with respect to Doubly Periodk Elliptic Functions of the Second and Third Kinds By JOHN GRIFFITHS , .
Communicated by Prof. STOKES , Sec. R.S. Recelved March 5 , 1885 .
Elliptic Functions of the Second Kind .
1 .
If , it is known am Similar results are true when is replaced by the second elliptic integral , and a corresponding change ?
made in Jacob 's no fation .
In fact , putting , we have the following theorems , .
:\mdash ; am am ama , ama , if , and are the same quantities as above .
The fundamental equations satisfied by the new functions are\mdash ; ( 1 .
) , ( 2 .
) , ( 3 .
) ama , Functions of the Seco and Third Kinds .
am am am ama am , \mdash ; { and common denominator amb .
The theory of the two periods can be derived from the above and the relation , where and Functions of the Third Kind .
2 .
Again , if be ] aced by and be taken cos amp , , we have ; amp ; ; where ' In this case the periods depend upon the relation where 3 .
Remarks on a function , which includes Jacobi 's as particular case .
If we regard as a ion of and write , there seems to be a relation of the form This satisfies the two equations , , as may be seen by changing into ; ( 2 ) into , respec tively .
It is easy to show by ordinary trigonometrical formulae that we get solution of these functional ns by putting where a constant and The deduction of\mdash ; .
ents no particular difficulty .
This is Jacob 's .
The above considerations suggest the very interesting question whether we may not take to be a function of , and so write infin .
facie this does not seem to be an impossible equation , since series can be reversed by Lagrange 's theorem , i.e. , we may have -Resistance\ldquo ; in tic Cells .
If the assumption in question is valid , there follows ] relation .
or , in other words , the elliptic functions of the third kind , \amp ; c. , be expressed by harmonic series involving multiples of March 19 , 1885 .
THE TREASURER in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks dered for them .
The following Papers were read : ' On Transfer.resistance ' in Electrolytic and Voltaic Cell By G. GORE , .D .
, F.R.S. Received arch 2 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The existence of this phenomenon has been a matter of doubt ever since the year 1831 , and the question has been examined by many investigators .
In the present paper described a series of methods by means of which its reality has been determined .
Other methods are given for measuring the amounts of such " " resistance either collectively at the electrodes of an electrolytic cell , or separately at each electrode .
Modes of obviating the interference of polarisation , and of secnring success in the measurements , also described .
The influence of various circumstances upon the phcnomenon were investigated , , strength and density of current ; total resistance ; density of curl'ent and size of electrode ; composition of the electrolyte ; strength of ditto ; combined electrolytic cells ; temperature ; and chemical corrosion .
The relatio1ls of the phenomenon to size of plate in voltaic , to the positive and negative plates respectively , and to strength of current in those cells , also examine and the results are given .
The following are the chief facts established by this researcll : That a species of electric " " resistance distinct from of polarisation and of ordinary conduction-resistance , varying greatly in amount in different cases , exists at the surfaces of mutual conncb of metals and liquids in eleotrolytic and voltaic cells .
That this " " resistance\ldquo ;

