the Mediterranean .
" By John Davy , M.D. F.R.S. , Assistant Inspeo tor of Army Hospitals .
The first intelligence of the breaking out of the volcano , which is the subject of the present paper , was brought to Malta , on the 16th of July last , by a merchant vessel .
It was confirmed soon after by Captain Swinburne , of H.M.S. Rapid , who had succeeded in approaching very near the island .
The crater of the volcano , which was in great activity , was then only a few feet above the level of the sea .
Several shocks of an earthquake had been felt near the same spot about a month before the eruption .
The volcano continued active till the 16th of August , and the island it was forming gradually en ?
larged in all its dimensions ; but since that period there has been no fresh eruption .
In the end of August , a survey of the island was carefully made by Captain Wodehouse , R.N. of H.M. brig Ferret ; and a plan drawn by him is annexed to the present paper .
The cir ?
cumference of the island is about.3240 feet , and its greatest height 107 feet ; the circumference of its crater is about 780 feet .
The surface of the island is composed entirely of ashes and cinders , without any lava .
The crater contained turbid salt water , having a temperature of 200 ?
Fahr. and emitting a constant supply of gas .
The water in the immediate neighbourhood of the island was very shallow , not exceeding three or four feet , and the crater was rapidly filling up by the falling in of its margin .
The author could not learn that anything unusnal had been noticed as having occurred in any of the neighbouring volcanic regions , either at the time of the eruption or immediately antecedent to it .
He describes the phenomenon , which fell under his own observation , on a visit which he made to the island on the,5th of August .
During the most violent eruptions , a large quantity of dense white vapour , resembling snow or bleached wool , rose to a great height in the atmosphere , and assumed various extraordinary forms ; this was followed by columns of perfectly black matter , rising to the height of three or four thousand feet , and spreading out very widely , even to wind ward .
The subterranean sounds attending the eruptions were not very loud , and were much exceeded by that of the electrical explosions accompanying the lightning , which was seen to dart in various directions in the at ?
mosphere of the eruption .
To leeward of the volcano , the sea was much discoloured by the admixture of ashes and fine dust , and an abundance of light cinders were floating on its surface .
Even when the author was enveloped in the dark cloud of ashes falling from the volcano , not the smallest odour of bitumen , of sulphuretted hydrogen , or of sulphureous or any other acid , was perceptible ; nor was any inconvenience felt in respiration .
No appearance of flame , and but little light , was exhibited during these eruptions .
The solid products ejected from the volcano appeared , on examina ?
tion , to differ more in form than iu chemical composition ; and were found to consist of alumina , lime , magnesia , and silex , coloured by protoxide of iron , and without any potash .
With the exception of small masses of vesicular basalt , similar to the common lava of Etna and Vesuvius , these meterials exhibited no crystalline structure .
The water taken from the crater appeared to consist of sea-water holding in suspension a fine dust , together with filaments resembling vegetable fibres , which the author supposes to have been derived from sea-weed drawn into the water .
The saline ingredients of this water differed from that of the Mediterranean , chiefly in containing more sulphate of lime , and a little alumina , oxide of iron , and a trace of oxide of manganese 5 all these in combination with an acid , probably the sul ?
phuric or muriauc , and a notable portion of hypersulphite of lime and magnesia .
He could not detect in it any free acid or alkali , or the presence , even in combination , of any potash or ammonia , or nitric acid , nor the slightest trace of bromine or iodine .
The gas emitted by the volcano appeared , as far as could be determined from an ex ?
amination of two specimens , to consist chiefly of carbonic acid , with a trace of sulphuretted hydrogen .
The author observes in conclusion , that the results of his inquiry are almost entirely of a negative kind ; and in this respect correspond with those obtained by Sir Humphry Davy , with respect to Vesuvius , and which are described in his paper " On thePhaenomena ofVolcanos , published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1828 .
They accordingly tend to corroborate the simple hypothesis there adopted in expla ?
nation of the phsenomena of volcanic action ; namely , that of the existence of an ignited nucleus of fluid matter , occasionally forced through the cooled crust of the earth by the expansive power of steam and gas : and they militate strongly against the hypothesis of the chemical origin of volcanos , and of their being attended by a decomposi ?
tion of water by the metallic bases of the earths and alkalies .
A drawing of the volcano in its active state of eruption accompanied the paper , together with a plan , and views of the island .

