]\gt ; Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of THE BAKERIAN LECTURE was delivered by Prof. W. G. M.A. , F.R.S. , On the Forms of Equipotential Curves Surfaces and Lives of Electric Force.'2 The following is 1 Abstract :\mdash ; This paper contains an account of certain experimental of the laws of electrical distribution in and in a plane conduM sheet .
The ential .
any point of an unlimited planoe sheet due to a of electricit .
at other point of the plane at from it is portional to the logarithm of the distance , and the potential due to or more charges at different points of the is the sum of the pote tials due to the several charges ; so that when there are two points in plane conducting sheet connected with the poles of a battery , as the are equal currents flowing at those two points , one iubo and the oth out of the sheet , the potential at any point of the sheet is proportion to the difference of the rithlus of its nces from the or electrocles here the current enters and the sheet .
The potelltial is constant for a series of points if the difference of logarithms of the distances of each of those points from the electrod constant , .
if the ratio of the distances of each of thosepoin from the electrodes remains constant .
The curve joining this series of points is an equipotential If and the distances of any point in the curve from the tv electrodes , and a constant , then IFence the equipotentinl curves are circles with their centres on tholi ] ioining the electrodes ; the lines of force which cut the equip teutial curves at right itngles are also arcs of circles passing through tl two electrodes .
The lines of force be regarded as distinct oloe another , as filling up all the spnce on the conductor the and the distribution old nob be altered if we of hem ; divided from one another like septl.ires conducting curreu side side .
By taking out space bomlded by lines of shall incr the quantity loug the other lines of force , but shall not distribution of the current anlong them .
Hence may cut out a from unlimited sheet tvithout ltel .
the form of the ] ines of if the boundary of the disk be of circles through the tv electrodes ; so thab for a circular disk the electrodes on the edge it , the equipotentil cnrves are circles their centres on the line he ectrodes .
Equipotential Curves and Sc. 281 he forms of the equipotential curves may be traced out experimenby attaching two battery-electrodes to disk of tinfoil , and having similar electrodes attached to a delicate galvanometer ; one of these rodes being fixed at a point through which the equipotential is drawn , the other may be moved from point to point to trace out the essive points , so that no current may pass through the galvanometer .
mparison of the experimental results with the theory a comagreement .
a large square sheet 310 millims. in diameter , with the electrodes millims. apart , the in the centre and near the electrodes , ch are drawn by pricking fine holes through the tinfoil on a sheet of below , very accurately circular , mostly coincide with , les , until the points are so far from the centre that the form of the potential curves is affected by the edge of the disk .
a ] disk the electrodes on the edge subtending at the centre , the experiltal c are to be accurately arcs of circles , with their centres line ioiuing the electrodes .
an unlimited sheet , when thel.e are sevelal electrodes by hich ents enter and leave the sheet , the potential at any point is , .
are the distances to the electrodes of one kind , 1 ' , are the distances to the electrodes of the other [ case of one positive electrode at the celltre and four legative elecles round it at the corners of a square , the are traced and are to be the same as the cllrves at the cornel .
of a square sheet lositive electrode at the corner and two negative electrodes on the es ; the curves are also the same for a square sheet with a positive at the corller , and one negative electrode along the diagonal .
Dhe equation for these equipotential curves is is derived , in the case of the limited sheets , by considering thnt , to electrode on the limited sheet , there corresponds an equal and like trodc at each of the images of that electrode formed by the es of the sheet .
If we trace the cul .
Ycs for this arrangement of elec1 des in the unlimited sheet , the edges of the limited sheet will be some the lines of ; and so divide the shcct these edgcs , hout altcring the form of the equipotential .
Where ] de and its images coincide i11 position , the index of ' is to than the number of im When there are four of on limited , an curve is by the equation VOL. XXIIt .
282 Prof. W. G. Adams on the Forms of If the four points lie on a circle , and the complete quadrilateral be through them , the circles which have their centres at the intersectiou opposite sides of the quadrilateral , and which cut the first circle at angles , will also cut one another at right angles .
One of these cirde is shown to be an equipotential curve for the four electrodes , and th other is a line of force .
Hence , if cut the unlimited sheet along the edge of this circle , we shall not alter the forms of the equipotential curves ; and withi have one electrode of each kind , the others being their eleotri images , the product of the distances of an and its image from the centre being equal to the square of the radius of the disk .
\amp ; electrode is at the edge of the disk , then the electrode and its cid , and the equation to the equipotential curve is When one pole is at the edge and the other is at the centre of circular disk , since the electric image of the centre is at an infinite distance , the equation to the equipotential curves is This is an interesting case , as showing that the equipotential curYesd not always cut the edge of the disk at right angles .
The curves aroun the centre of the disk are nearly ellipses of small eccentricity , with on focus in the centre ; but on placing one tracing electrode at a distano from the centre between the electrodes , where is the radius , there is great uncertaint in determining the form of the curve on the opposite side of the centr of the disk .
This is explained by the ffict that the electrodes were 1 millim diameter , and a diflerence of distance of 1 millim. veen the electrode near this point corresponds to portion of the disk on the side of the centre\mdash ; this portion cluding an area of bout 5 millims. in a circle millims. in radius , .
about one eighth of tb whole of the circle .
On placing one of the galvanometer-electrd at the extremity of the diameter through the -electrodes tracing with the other , it is found that the cve throug that point cuts the edge of the disk at an angle of that the } branches cutting one another at right angles .
These peculiarities are explained on tracing the curve corresponding to this oase .
The extremity of the diameter is poin through which two branohes of the curve pass at right angles to or another .
The forms of the equipotential surfaces and lines of force in space ma be by taking a vcssel containing a cou Equipotential Curves and Surfaces , Sc. fotlng liquid and two points , the ends of covered ires , -electrodes , at a givell depth in the liquid and from the ends of the vessel , taking similar covered wires , immersed to the depth , for galvanometer-electrodes .
For two electrodes , the equipotential surfaces be surfaces of around the straight ] joining them , and so cut any plane , tlwn through this straight line or axis , everywhere at right angles .
ence we may suppose sections of the liquid made along such planes bhout altering the forms of the equipotential surfaces .
This we ma .
place our battery-electrodes at the side of rectangular box the liquid , and with the points only just immersed the 'rface of the liquid ; and the equipotential surfaces will be the same as if liquid were of unlimited extent in every direotion about the elecWe shall obtain the section of the equipotential surface by taking for -electrodes two points in the surface of the liquid , keeping fixed and tracing out points of potential the other .
The potential at any point in space , due to two equal opposite )ctrodes , is , lere ttnd are the nces of the point from the electrodes ; so that an equipotential surface constant .
less surfaces cut at right angles by the curves lich are the magnetic lines of force , and being the angles bich the distances from the electrodes make with the axis .
Ihat the les of force in a vessel of finite size should ngree with the lines of force spnce , the form of the boundary of the vessel in a plane through everywhere be a line of force ; but the ends of a !
ssel coincide very closely with certaill lines of , either when the ectrodes at the ends , or when there electrodes ithin the ssel , two supposed electrodes at their images at an equal stance outside the ends of the vessel .
The equipotential surfaces are given in this by the equation constant , the lines of force by the equation he curve for which coincides very closely the ends of the The equipotential surfaces were out in sulphato of copper in of inc by the mcfhod:\mdash ; 28 A On Equipotential Curves and Surfaces , Sc. A rectangular box was taken , and the battery-electrodes pieces of wood , which could be clamped at the centre of the end of box , and could be brought to any required point in the line ioining middle points of the end of the box .
The galvanometer-electrodeswer attached to pieces which rest om the ends and side of the box , the position of the electrodes was read ofl by a milhmetre-scale placod 01 the ends and sides of the box .
In the sulphate-of-coppor experiments , covered wire with the end ex. posed was immersed to half the depth of the liquid ; in the with sulphate of zinc , the zinc electrodes were just immersed below surface of the liquid .
The close coincidence between the experimenta curves traced out and the theoretical curves and surfaces in space shown by a comparisou of the numbers given in the paper for several the cnrves which have been traced out ; it shows that , by currents alternately , it is easy to keep the polarization very small , and constant $momt , om the galvanometer-electrodes .
When the electrodes are parallel lines extending throughout the deptl of the , the equipotential surfaces are cylindrical , and their section are given by the equation where there are several positive and several negative electrodes , \amp ; c. being measured from the points where the electrodes cut the of the section .
Hence the forms of these equipotential curves are the same as in plaue sheet ; so that the forms traced out in tinfoil will be the same the corresponding forms in space for line electrodes .
Ihese forms be aced out in sulphate of copper with copper electrodes , or in sulphab of zinc zinc eleetrodes ; and for these with and other vessels , the polar coordinates may be mw sured directly .
One of the battery-electrodes is made the origin , and a lath , 01 ss vire , resting on the edges of the has a slot along it , the origin being at one end or at some point of th slot .
In the slot is a sliding piece or ivory which carries one of th galvanometer-electrodes , and the lath is capable of turning about battery-electrode it is ] aced .
Around this electrode is a duated circle for measuring the angles about the origin , and , on the side } of the slot , is a millimetre-scale for the distances from origin .
other -electrode may be fixed in a manner which ' most suitable case .
The of these tions s ho$v closely the tion of equipotentinl surffices and lines of force ngrees witf the heory of disttibulion in space .

