Qn the Laws which regulate the Absorption of Polarized Light by Doubly Refracting Crystals .
By David Brewster , LL. D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edinb .
In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read November 12 , 1818 .
LPhil .
Trans. 1819 , p. 11 .
] In examining the polarizing structure of acetate of copper , the.author 's attention was drawn to certain changes of colour exhibited by its crystal , when exposed in different positions to polarized light ; and as these were independent of the thickness of the plate , and of any analysis of the transmitted pencil , he was induced to regard them as a new affection of light , ascribable to the absorption of the homogeneous tints forming the compound colour of the crystal .
Dr. Brewster , therefore , collected a variety of coloured crystals , with a view to examine the phenomena which they presented , when cut at different angles with the axis , and when exposed in different positions to polarized light .
The details of this examination are next given ; and as the property of transparent bodies , by which they detain and assimilate to their own substance a portion of the rays which penetrate them while the rest are freely transmitted , is related to the axes of double refraction , the author first describes the phenomena presented by crystals of one axis , and then explains the modifications which they undergo when the number of axes is increased .
It appears from these investigations that the colouring particles of crystals , instead of being indiscriminately dispersed throughout their mass , have an arrangement related to the ordinary and extraordinary forces which they exert upon light .
In some cases , the extraordinary medium appeared to be tinged with the same kind and number of colouring particles as the ordinary medium ; but in other cases , in the same mineral , the extraordinary medium was either tinged with a different number of particles of the same colour , or with a colouring matter entirely different from that of the ordinary medium .
In some specimens of topaz the colouring matter of the one medium was more easily discharged by heat than that of the other , one of the pencils being yellow and the other pink : hence it is a mistake to suppose that in converting yellow topazes into pink by heat , the former colour is changed into the latter ; the fact being , that the yellow is discharged by heat , thus leaving the pink unimpaired .
Hence it may be ascertained beforehand whether a topaz will receive a pink colour by heat ; for if that colour exist in one of its images , seen by exposing it to a polarized ray , we may predict the success of the experiment .
In two specimens of emerald it was found that the colouring matter which tinged the ordinary medium in the one , tinged the extraordinary medium in the other , and vice versed .

