Influence of Labour upon the Discharge of .
443 " The Influence of Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
" By W. North , B.A. , F.C.S. Communicated by J. Burdon Sanderson , F.R.S. Received October 29 , 1883 .
Read November 15 .
[ Plates 5\#151 ; 10 .
] As in the experimental researches previously published on the subject of the present paper , the methods employed have been for the most part entirely different from those which I have found best adapted to the purpose , I have after much consideration judged it inexpedient to lengthen an already long communication by giving an account of them .
The scope of my inquiry has been strictly limited to one question , viz. , that of the influence of labour in modifying the normal relation between food and excreta .
I have made no attempt to investigate the mode in which nitrogenous products came into existence in the organism .
The only published experiments of any importance which bear strictly on the subject of inquiry are those of Dr. Parks * contributed to the Royal Society in 1867 and 1871 , and those of Dr. Austin Flint , on the pedestrian Weston , 1871.f The results of these two investigations were as follows :\#151 ; Dr. Parks found that during or immediately after severe labour , the discharge of nitrogen was more or less increased ; the increase , however , was so inconsiderable that it might well be questioned whether it could not be accounted for as dependent on the more perfect absorption of food , for although the diet of the soldiers experimented upon was carefully regulated , and the nitrogen it contained determined by analysis , with the result that before work the quantity of nitrogen taken in considerably exceeded the quantity discharged , the two became practically equal during the work period , consequently if the whole period of observation is taken into account , the nitrogen discharged is found to be more than balanced by that of the food .
Dr. Austin Flint , on the other hand , found that over the period of work the increase of discharge was so large that no such explanation appeared to him admissible ; if , however , comparison is made of the intake with the output of nitrogen during the whole time of observation , comprising the three periods of five days each befoie , during , and after labour , it is found that the two are unequal , the * " On the Elimination of Nitrogen during Rest and Exercise on a Regulated Diet , " " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 15 , p. 339 , vol. 16 , p. 44 , 1867 ; vol. 20 , p. 402,18/ 1 .
\#166 ; j* " New York Medical Journal , " June 1871 , p. 609 .
2 g 2 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of difference in favour of the nitrogen of the food amounting to 217 grains in a total of 5075 .
These results were subjected to careful experimental criticism in 1876 , * by Dr. Pavy , who showed as the result of his own analyses that the immediate effect of labour in increasing the nitrogen output of the body is more than compensated by the concomitant and subsequent intake .
It is further to be considered that whatever results had been obtained by Dr. Austin " Flint , they could not have been received without some misgiving , for his methods of research were insufficient as bases for quantitative statement ; thus the nitrogen of the urine was throughout determined by a process which is known to be liable to errors of variable amount , which no care on the part of the worker is adequate to guard against .
So also as regards the intake of nitrogen .
Dr. Flint 's estimates were for the most part founded , not on analyses of the material actually used , but on calculations based on the percentages given in M. Payen 's tables , f percentages which are known to be at best only approximately correct ; more\#169 ; ver " , the diet of eston was of so complicated and variable a composition , that even if each constituent had been analysed , the result would still have been open to question .
The circumstances under which Dr. Austin Flint had to make his observations probably made it impossible for him even to attempt to secure uniformity of diet .
In this respect the conditions of Dr , Parks experiments were immeasurably superior ; fully recognising that .
uniformity was essential , he fed his men in the simplest possible way .
He was not , however , able to accomplish this without employing a diet which was so different from that to which as soldiers they were accustomed that , however satisfactory its elementary composition might be , it could scarcely be considered as natural .
Notwithstanding this difficulty , the experiments of Dr. Parks render it , to say the least , highly probable that the immediate effect of labour is to increase the discharge of nitrogen , they leave it undecided whether or not this increase occurs at the expense of stored material independent of any concomitant or subsequent increase of intake .
If this be so , the results of experiments conducted under natural conditions and by perfectly accurate methods , ought to show that if the nitrogen output were graphically represented during the course of it by a curve , in the construction of which the quantity of nitrogen in the food was taken as base line or axis , the part of such output curve corresponding to the previous period would be a more or less horizontal line below the level of the axis .
That corresponding to the period during or immediately following work will show an elevation , followed by a depression of less amplitude but longer duration , corresponding * " Lancet , " 1876 , vols .
i and ii .
f u Traite des Substances Alimentaires/ * Paris , 1865 .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
445 to the subsequent period , and the form of the curve would be such that of the two spaces included between it and the axis , the one above would never exceed the one below , provided the period of observation were sufficiently prolonged .
It has been a primary object of the present inquiry to determine whether a result in this form can be invariably obtained or not ; its value , if obtained , would lie , not of course in its affording evidence that increased expenditure of nitrogen , consequent on work , is balanced by diminished expenditure afterwards ( for this has been already shown , and has in itself very little significance ) , but in its proving that the increase is not and cannot be an effect of increased intake , that the over-expenditure of nitrogenous material which work determines is exclusively expenditure of previously stored material , and consequently that the degree of effect produced by work will vary according to the state of the body in respeet of storage at the ' time at which the work is done .
The subject-matter of the present paper will for the sake of clearness be discussed under the following heads ( 1 .
) Plan of Experiment .
( 2 .
) Observations on Pulse , Temperature , Respiration ; and Body-Weight , before , during , and after work .
( 3 .
) Experimental Diet .
( 4 .
) Methods of Collecting Excreta .
( 5 .
) Methods of Analysis of Food and Excreta .
( 6 .
) Nature of the Work done .
( 7 .
) Detailed Statement and General Summary of the Quantitative Results of Experiments .
In the concluding paragraphs an attempt will be made to set forth the inferences to which the experiments lead , and to indicate the direction which must be given to further inquiry .
The Plan of Experiment .
I always began an experiment .
with the intention that it should extend over at least nine days , which I divided as follows :\#151 ; Four days ' ordinary occupation , one day work , and a second period of four days ' ordinary occupation , or more if I thought it necessary for the complete subsidence of any effects produced by the work .
In addition to this I usually prepared myself some days ( ten or twelve ) before , by living exceedingly regularly , and always having the same kind , and as nearly as possible , without weighing , the same quantity of food ; further , in order to get rid of what in a former paper* I have called reserve nitrogen , I have found it necessary somewhat to increase my daily exercise for a few days before commencing an experiment , or , as in my later investigations , to take the additional precaution of * " Journal of Physiology , " vol. i. Mr. W. North .
Influence of abstaining from food for thirty-six hours .
Judged by the results , this seems to bring about the desired effect more rapidly and with greater certainty than increased exercise , and has the advantage of not causing such great systemic disturbance\#151 ; at least in my own case .
In the paper above referred to I have stated my belief as the result of experiment in the possibility of storing in the body a certain amount of nitrogen , which , when occasion arises , is discharged again , and I found in these experiments that my mode of life , and particularly the amount of food which I had been taking in the previous week , materially influenced the effect produced by the inanition : that is to say , that in the one case , in which I had not been living up to my usual standard of diet for some little time before the fast commenced , the nitrogen curve began to descend immediately and very rapidly to its minimum ; whereas in the second , in which the reverse condition pertained , that is to say , when for a week before the experiment I had been living somewhat more generously than usual , the nitrogen curve descended more slowly , and the general effect of the starvation upon me was very much less ; I would lay particular stress upon these facts , although beyond the use of the H ; erm " store nitrogen , " I have attempted no explanation of them , because they will be found to have a very important bearing upon the results of the experiments which form the subject of this paper .
Having thus , in one way or the other , i.e. , either by starvation or increased exercise and regulated diet , prepared myself , I put myself upon the special experimental diet , going about my work , and living just as usual , except that my meal-times and the quantity of food taken daily were regulated with great exactness .
In the earlier experiments I performed the whole of the analyses myself , and in all I have personally weighed , prepared , and cooked every article of my diet .
The analyses of food , urine , and fasces , made in 1882 and 1883 , were made for me by a skilled assistant , and I may take this opportunity to remark , that with my present mode of experiment , the labour involved is so great as to render it quite impossible for any one to be at the same time the subject of the experiment and the analyst , apart from the fact that for many reasons it is very undesirable .
Observations on Pulse , Temperature , Respiration , and Body-Weight .
These were made regularly twice a day , immediately on waking in the morning , and just before going to bed at night .
The Pulse.\#151 ; The observations were made in two positions , standing and lying , the difference between the two being , I think , a fair index of the condition of the nervous system .
The morning observation was made immediately on waking , and before any movements had Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
been made which might excite the heart .
The standing observation was made by getting out of bed as quietly as possible , and standing upright for two or three minutes , during which I counted my pulse , until I found that the quickening produced by the movement had subsided .
I then made the observation , often repeating it two or three times At night I remained standing for five or six minutes before counting the pulse , and on lying down the same precaution was observed .
Respiration.\#151 ; Observations in the two positions were also made morning and evening , the same care being taken to ensure accuracy .
^ I found it was not by any means an easy matter to count the respiration without affecting its rate by the very act of doing so .
The plan eventually adopted was to stand with my watch m my left hand , and my left wrist lightly pressing against the lower ribs ; with a little practice I was able in this way to count the respirations almost unconsciously .
The figures given in the tables are as a rule t e mean of at least two observations . .
Temperature.\#151 ; This was observed by means of a pair of clinical thermometers , which had been carefully compared , and found to read accurately together .
The figures all indicate Fahrenheit degrees , and are something less than one-tenth of a degree too high ; this being the error of the instruments , no readings were taken under five minutes and most of them were over ten .
X previously found by careful experiment that three minutes would suffice for either of the thermometers to attain the maximum temperature .
The observations were taken in the mouth and axilla , great care being taken to secure the proper position of the instruments ; any doubtful observations were always repeated .
I occasionally also took the temperature of the rectum .
Besides the morning and evening observations , I took the temperature of the mouth frequently during the exercise and at other times , when for some reason or another I have thought it desirable .to do so .
The exact times at which all these observations were made , together with notes on any which seemed to require explanation , will be found recorded in the tables .
The Body-Weight.\#151 ; 'This was taken morning and evening on an Avery 's machine , weighing to ounces .
On the days of exercise I made two additional observations , one just before starting , and another on returning .
There are several points connected with the accurate determination of the body-weight which are of very great importance in all investigations of this kind , and which may not be out of place here .
There is of course no difficulty whatever in determining the body weight at any given time , but I have learned from long experience that it is not so easy to make what I may call a " fair ' observation .
It will be obvious from an inspection of the tables that the variations Mi* .
W. North .
The Influence of of my own body-weight were often very considerable , and this is especially the case between the evening weight and that of the following morning ; variations during the day may be very largely due to food and drink , particularly the latter .
This loss of weight during sleep is due to two causes , loss by the skin and lungs , and loss by the kidneys , as I always emptied the bladder before taking my weight .
Making all allowance for the urine , it is clear that whilst sleeping I frequently lost 1 to lbs. in weight , and on some occasions even more , by the skin and lungs alone .
During the day I have frequently observed even greater loss from thi\#163 ; cause .
The object of frequent and regular observations of the body-weight in all investigations of this kind is to determine whether or no there exists a relation between loss of tissue and discharge of nitrogen .
The weight of prote'id which would represent the greatest increase in the nitrogen discharge I have ever observed : is very small compared with the variation of body-weight from other causes , and is very liable to be overshadowed by them , if indeed we ought to consider ourselves in any degree capable of distinguishing between the two .
There are a number of circumstances which affect the body-weight , and which I think it would be well briefly to consider:- They may be divided roughly into two categories ; external and internal .
External Conditions.\#151 ; -The condition of the atmosphere ; height of the barometer , external temperature ; and the nature of one 's occupation .
It is a matter of common observation that the amount of sensible perspiration varies very materially with meteorological conditions , and I have good reason ' for believing that not merely the sensible perspiration is affected , but also indirectly the total loss through the skin .
Speaking for myself , and I have often heard the same'remark made by others accustomed to severe physical exertion , a low barometer and the depressing conditions which so often accompany it profoundly influence the effect of such exertion upon the body-weight ; I can only suppose that this is due to the mental effect produced reacting on the vasomotor system .
Nor is this all ; I think that there is evidence in the results of my experiments , that this effect manifests itself in another way , * which unfortunately seriously complicates the problem I have set before me for solution .
This vasomotor action affects the blood supply not merely of the skin , but also of the internal organs , and especially the kidneys ; causing not only a great increase in the quantity of urine , but also an increase of excretory activity , which has for result an incontestable increase in the amount of nitrogen in the urine .
This makes it exceedingly important in estimating the value of results obtained to take very * E. Smith : " Health and Disease , " 1875 , p. 157 .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
449 carefully into consideration all these conditions which directly or indirectly affect not only the quantity , hut the quality of the urine .
Internal Conditions\#151 ; These are very various , and hardly admit of accurate scientific description .
There is , however , a phrase the meaning of which is well known to athletes , viz. , " to feel fit , " which will serve to illustrate my meaning .
I have observed repeatedly that when I have undergone any considerable physical exertion for which at the outset I did not feel this " fitness* " or , to use another phrase , when I was " out of condition , " there was invariably a much greater loss of weight than when I was " in good condition .
" No doubt atmospheric conditions have a very powerful influence for or against this " fitness " for exertion* but independently of these are mental and nervous states probably exceedingly complicated in their origin , but none the less powerful in the influence they have upon the metabolic phenomena of the body .
The body-weight in these experiments was always taken after emptying the bladder , so that the difference between the evening weight and the weight next morning expresses the total loss by skin and kidneys .
I attempted to eliminate the error caused by the contents of the rectum* but very soon found that it was impossible to regulate and control the bowels with the same precision with which the urine can be regulated ; so that if we wish very accurately to determine the significance of these differences of body-weight , we must take careful note of the times at which the faeees were passed , but for reasons which will be stated under the head of the faeces the difficulty is only then very partially overcome .
Enough has I think been said to show how exceedingly difficult it may be to determine with even moderate accuracy the nature of the loss or gain in body-weight , and how careful we should be in accepting arguments founded on small variations .
Daily Occupation , Meals , 8fc\#151 ; The day generally began about 9 A.M. ; the variations from this time will be found in the tables of temperature .
Breakfast followed as soon as I could\gt ; prepare it .
I had no mid-day meal , but was accustomed to take a portion of the bread to the laboratory at University College , in which most of my time was spent .
I dined at or about 6 p.m. , and spent the evening in reading , weighing and preparing food , \amp ; c. The necessities of my work sometimes kept me up very late .
This was unavoidable , as I was not able to devote my whole time to these experiments .
At first I used to bake my bread every evening for the following day ; but in the later experiments I gave up every alternate evening to this work , as I found I saved time by the arrangement .
Supper was taken at various times after 11 p.m. Arrangements on Days of Exercise.\#151 ; Under ordinary circumstances , that is to say , when the walk could be easily accomplished between Mr. W. North .
The of the breakfast and dinner hour , or at the most an hour or so later , the exercise did not entail any material alteration in the arrangements already described ; but when the distance to be walked exceeded 30 miles , the time required for its performance was too great to admit of even approximate adherence to the rules as to meal-times , \amp ; c. , described in the previous section .
For instance , on the occasion when the distance to be walked was close upon 50 miles , it was necessary to go some little distance by train as usual , in order to get out of London before commencing the march .
This involved getting up at 4 A.M. , breakfasting before I started , and walking to a railway station to catch a train , so that I might be on my road by 6 a.m. I did not return perhaps until 8 p.m. or even later , my sole food during the journey being one-half of my daily allowance of bread .
Before starting I had the following operations to perform :\#151 ; Observations on pulses , temperature and body-weight naked , and body-weight when fully equipped for the journey , in order that I might be able to estimate the load carried .
After this I had to prepare and eat my breakfast and put on my kit again before I could start .
On returning my first duty was to weigh myself " all standing " and then naked ; the differences between these observations and those taken in the morning gave me the actual loss of weight sustained and the mean load carried , because , as I need hardly point out , the load brought back is somewhat differently constituted from that taken out in the morning , being lighter by the weight of bread consumed and heavier by the urine and faeces brought back .
Having made these observations on my body-weight , I took my pulse , temperature , and respiration , at all events in the standing position , had a cold bath , after which I sometimes made further observations on pulse and temperature , and then prepared my dinner , of which by this time I was generally greatly in need .
On the days of exercise I always combined dinner and supper , so that at the latest the last ingestion of food for the day was certainly not later than usual , and often an hour or two earlier .
During the actual progress of the walk , I frequently observed my pulse , temperature , respiration , the length of my stride , and average pace .
I have thought it necessary to state thus explicitly my manner of proceeding on a day of exercise , because it may possibly be urged that the results I have obtained may be thus accounted for ; that is to say , it may be urged that whereas an ordinary day was one of twenty-four hours , the day of exercise was on two occasions at all events longer by four hours , and the day before the exercise was shortened by the same amount .
I am obliged to admit a certain amount of justice in this objection , but I would urge , on the other Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
451 hand , that I was careful always to dine rather earlier on the day before the exercise , and to consume all my remaining bread at that meal , leaving only a cup of cocoa to be taken later to complete the day 's allowance , and this I generally took between 8 and 9 p.m. , instead of at 11 p.m. as on other days ; so that I think I may safely say that my food had at least the usual time for digestion and the products to pass into the urine .
It may possibly be asked , why I did not adhere to my ordinary meal times and arrange for the consumption of my dinner on the road ?
I would reply , that the object of these experiments was to determine the effect of muscular labour upon the nitrogen contained in the body , and not the disposition of material supplied to the organism whilst in a state of great activity .
This I consider to be a different problem from the one actually before us , and which will require investigation by somewhat different methods from those which I have adopted in these researches .
True I have found it necessary to eat something during the work , hut this was only the same as was eaten on other days on which no work was done .
The Diet.\#151 ; In all experiments of this kind , the diet is of prime importance .
Our ordinary food-stuffs do not lend themselves readily to analysis , are very variable in their composition , and are in many respects very unsuited to the purpose .
The conditions which the diet for such researches must satisfy are these:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) It must be of such a nature as to resemble as nearly as possible the ordinary food of the individual experimented upon .
( 2 .
) It must admit of being accurately sampled for analysis .
( 3 .
) It must keep for such a length of time that one experiment at least can be made with the same material .
The ordinary components of a mixed diet do not satisfy the last two conditions in any sense whatsoever , and the extreme difficulty of determining the ingesta accurately led me , after many trials , to use special methods of preparing the following articles for the purposes of these researches :\#151 ; Bread .
Meat .
Green vegetables .
Potatoes .
Milk .
Pat .
Apples .
Cocoa .
Dread.\#151 ; In order to secure perfect uniformity in the quantity and quality of this article , I took a sufficiency of one sample of flour to Mr. W , North .
Influence of last for several experiments , and this was weighed ont into paper bags in quantities sufficient for each day 's consumption , an allowance of 10 grams on each day 's quantity being made for loss in the process of making .
This figure was arrived at by actual experiment .
It will be obvious that by this method , the bread being always made in the same way and from precisely the same quantities of the same ingredients , analysis of the flour was sufficient to determine the daily quantity of each constituent , the weight of the bread itself being quite immaterial .
I may add that it was raised by means of bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid , and baked in tins to avoid possible loss in the process , and that the greatest care was taken to ensure the consumption of the whole daily quantity by keeping it in paper bags , so that no crumbs were lost .
In this way I secured absolute uniformity as regards bread .
Meat.\#151 ; The difficulties to be evercome in* order that the meat might be made to fulfil the conditions already laid down were much more serious than in the case of bread- .
They were , however , successfully met by my friend Mr. Stephen Darby , of Leadenhall Street , to whom I would here express my great obligation for the service he has rendered me in this matter .
The process of preparation is briefly this :\#151 ; A large quantity , 80 to 100 lbs. of selected lean beefsteak , was carefully freed from all obvious fat , tendon , \amp ; c ; , cut into pieces about the size of a Barcelona nut , and dried upon a steam floor for some time , then cut into still smaller pieces and dried again , and the process repeated until the material was di*y enough to* be finely ground in a mill .
The resulting powder was exceedingly dry , of about the consistency of building sand , practically insoluble in water even after very prolonged boiling , but readily attacked by very dilute hydrochloric acid ( 0'2 per cent. ) , and apparently very easy of digestion .
I found that the insolubility of the material somewhat interfered with the palatability of the soup made from it ( in which form it was always taken but by the addition-of vegetables and seasoning ) .
This difficulty was surmounted , as was also another , viz. , that the powder would not remain in suspension unless something were added to thicken the soup .
It will be obvious that this meat powder fulfils the required condition almost perfectly .
It will keep almost indefinitely ( I have used some recently which was made nearly four years ago ) .
It is of uniform composition , and can be very readily analysed \#151 ; one analysis therefore sufficing for a very large number of experiments .
Potatoes.\#151 ; There is no difficulty as to these , " Edwards ' patent desiccated potato " fulfilling every condition perfectly .
Oreen Vegetables.\#151 ; These were for a long time a source of very great trouble .
At first I used ordinary fresh vegetable , which was Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
very unsatisfactory .
Nearly all the experiments recorded in this paper have been made with what is known as " dried julienne , " which , though in many respects greatly superior to fresh vegetable for the purpose of these inquiries , in that it is possible to sample and analyse it , fairly is open to the objection that it requires prolonged soakino- and careful cooking , otherwise it is exceedingly indigestible .
During the progress of the last experiment , Mr. Darby prepared for me , at my suggestion , a quantity of vegetables of various kinds , by thorough cooking , draining away the water , carefully diying the residue , and reducing it to a very fine powder .
The product is superior to the dry julienne in many respects .
It is already cooked ; it possesses much more flavour , and being in a fine powder , is very easily digested .
I intend to use vegetables so prepared in all future experiments . . .
Milk , __This presented no difficulty .
I was informed by the makers that a " case " of oondensed milk was invariably the product of one operation , and in consequence the various tins in it would contain milk of similar composition .
Actual analysis showed this to be the C8tSG\#187 ; The milk was weighed in small tared beakers ( 50 grams in each ) , the whole of the contents of a tin being weighed out at the same time , in order that no change by evaporation might take place m the composition of the milk .
When used , after scraping out as much as possible with a spoon , I boiled the beaker in the water to be used for making the cocoa , so that nothing was lost .
Cocoa.\#151 ; I used Van Houten 's cocoa , because a small quantity suffices , and when boiled with the condensed milk , diluted with water , the ' suspension " is perfect enough to enable the whole to be consumed without loss .
In this respect it is far superior for the purpose to tea or coffee .
pruit , \#151 ; I found throughout these experiments that fruit , m somo form or another , was almost a necessity and greatly contributed to my comfort .
I used for this purpose " American evaporated apples , which contain no waste , are easily cooked , and exceedingly palatable .
Fats \#151 ; Prepared " Australian beef marrow , " as sold in the shops , supplied the fat I required ; it contained no nitrogen .
The other articles used , sugar , salt , tartaric acid , and carbonate o soda ( used for raising the bread ) , presented no difficulties whatCornposition of the Diet .
Flour 410 grams .
454 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Condensed milk ... ... ... .
100 grams .
Fat ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
100 " Meat powder ... ... ... ... ... ... 60 " Preserved potatoes ... ... ... ... 60 " Dried julienne ... ... ... ... ... 20 , , Salt ( for soup and potatoes ) .
10 " Cocoa ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 10 " Preserved apples ... ... ... 20 " Sugar ( powdered loaf ) ... . .
15 " The distribution of the above articles into meals was as follows:\#151 ; Breakfast .
Cocoa ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
5 grams .
Condensed milk ... ... ... ... . .
50 , , Fat ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 " Bread , about of the whole amount .
Buncheon .
Bread , about of the whole amount .
Dinner .
Meat powder Julienne .
20 " Potatoes 60 " Apples 1 20 " Sugar / 15 " Salt 5 " Fat , about ... ... ... ... 25 " Bread , about of the whole amount .
Supper .
Cocoa .
... ... ... ... .
5 grams .
Condensed milk .
... ... ... .
50 , , Bread and fat ... ... ... ... ... .
The remainder .
Percentage Composition of Nitrogenous Food-stufFs used in Experiments , 1882 .
Food-stuff .
Nitrogen .
p2o5 .
h2so4 .
NaCl .
Ash .
Flour ... Dried meat Condensed milk Julienne Potato Cocoa i-7oo 13-552 1-474 1-725 0-961 3 162 0- 340 1- 892 0-706 0-811 0-492 2 122 0 160 0-630 0 035 0-445 0 -210 0-259 0-439 0-289 0 511 0 058 0-672 4- 310 2110 5- 382 3-412 9-180 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
455 Composition of Daily Ingesta .
Food-stuff .
Quantity .
Nitrogen .
h2so4 .
NaCl .
grams .
400 6-800 1-361 0-067 60 8-131 1135 0 037 0-155 TTllllf . .
m \#171 ; . .
100 1-474 0-706 0-355 0-439 vOIlU.t/ IlSv ; U UJ-IAH . . . . . . .
20 0-345 0-162 0-089 0-057 60 0-576 0-295 0 126 0-306 10 0-316 0-212 . .
0 005 Totals .
17-643 3-872 0-675 0-965 Preparation of Foods.\#151 ; My method of preparing the soup , the chief nitrogenous food of the day , was as follows : 20 grams of julienne were weighed out the night before , and set aside in a dish , and covered with about 250 c.c. of water to soak .
By 6 p.m. on the following day it was sufficiently soaked to be ready for cooking , and was then poured into a saucepan , care being taken that none either of the vegetable or water was lost .
To this was added salt and dried meat ( 60 grams ) , and the whole boiled for twenty minutes or half-an-hour , and kept constantly stirred , so that nothing should adhere to the sides of the saucepan , get burned , and so be lost. .
When sufficiently cooked it was poured into the basin from which it was to be eaten , and the saucepan carefully cleaned with a little boiling water , which was then added to the soup .
By these precautions I found no difficulty in securing the consumption of the whole of the material .
The potatoes were cooked according to the directions given by the makers , a small portion of fat being added .
I found that when properly cooked there was not the slightest difficulty in removing them from the saucepan completely .
The apples were stewed in the dish with the water in which they were soaked , together with the 15 grams of sugar , and from this dish they were eaten , so that nothing was lost .
Remarks on some Considerations involved in the above Piet .
My diet during these experiments was compared with my ordinary food , a very concentrated one , and on this ground alone it has been suggested to me that it was very objectionable , and could not nourish me in the same way as my ordinary food .
To this I can only reply that during the whole course of these experiments I enjoyed exceedingly good health , and provided I was careful about my diet for a few days after the conclusion of an experiment , I experienced no ill effects whatsoever ; on the contrary I have found on several occasions that my general health was decidedly benefited by adopting Mr. W. North .
Influence of the diet , not for experimental but entirely personal reasons , and I have often done so .
All that has been done , to any of the articles which comprise my diet table is to remove the great bulk of the water , and that in such a way as to produce no alteration in the food-stuff , except in form .
I think the figures prove beyond a doubt that the food was exceedingly well digested .
The only fault I have to find with it is that there is so little indigestible material in it , that it frequently caused slight constipation and irregularity of the bowels , which somewhat interfered with the exactness of the experiment .
The sensations experienced after a meal of dried meat and vegetables are , I think , worth recording .
Immediately after the meal there was a sense of satisfaction ; this was replaced in about an hour by a sense of hunger , sometimes very marked ; and this gradually disappeared and gave place to the consciousness that an amply sufficient meal had been taken .
The Fluid .Food.\#151 ; Nothing in my experience is sO difficult to regulate as the supply , of fluids to the body during experiments of this kind .
Variations of external temperature , and a number of minor circumstances over which we have little or no control , lead to the consumption of drinks of various kinds at irregular times , which no doubt have a very considerable effect upon the constitution of the urine , if not upon the general metabolism of the body .
No doubt the strict regulation of the fluids consumed would tend in some degree to increase the accuracy of the experiment , but it would at the same time cause an amount of discomfort to the individual experimented upon , which would in many cases , I think , counterbalance the supposed gain in accuracy .
Without any special effort on my part , I think I may say that my fluid ingesta regulated themselves .
The water used for making the cocoa or the soup was practically a constant determined by the size of the cooking vessels used .
Besides the fluid thus taken , I think I shall be near the truth if I say that on ordinary days a pint of water was drunk .
( No alcohol was taken in any form during these experiments , and though I habitually take very little , it was my custom to abstain entirely for several days before commencing an experiment .
) On the days of exercise there was undoubtedly an increase in the fluids ingested , for I allowed myself three pints of soda-water during the day , and on more than one occasion I have suffered considerable distress from the apparent insufficiency of this allowance .
It is an accepted fact that under ordinary circumstances the ingestion of large quantities of fluid causes an increase in the nitrogen eliminated by the urine , and possibly some of the increase which I have observed on days of exercise may be due to this cause ; but considering the vast increase in the loss by the skin under such circumstances , I am inclined to regard the effect to be attributed to this Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
457 cause as comparatively insignificant , and to consider the extra fluid so 1 aken as only serving to maintain the normal balance of fluids in the body .
Method of Collecting the Excreta .
My unit of time , as before stated , was a period of twenty-four hours , commencing immediately before breakfast each day ; the urine passed in this period was therefore collected and mixed .
For the collection of the urine I used a pair of 40-oz .
wide-mouthed stoppered bottles , which for convenience of carriage , and in order that I might have them always with me , were placed in a basket having a partition , and the lid of which was secured by a padlock , to prevent interference with the contents by other than myself or my assistant .
, For the collection of the faeces I used flat-bottomed Bohemian glass basins , about 2 inches deep , and 6 inches in diameter , with flat plates of glass for covers .
These fitted into wooden boxes sufficiently stout to protect the contents from breakage in travelling , the lids being made to fit very closely , and secured almost hermetically by means of four thumbscrews .
The dishes and covers were all weighed most carefully , and the weight scratched upon them with a diamond , and the cases were made to fit so tightly that they might be carried in any position without risk of losing the contents ; these were used for carrying the faeces from my own rooms to the laboratory , and also when on the march .
Mode cf Collecting during Exercise .
As the exercise consisted of long pedestrian expeditions into the country , I was obliged to adopt some means of carrying my receptacles with me .
The plan first used was to pack the urine bottles in felt jackets , to prevent breakage in an ordinary tourist s knapsack , the stoppers being carefully greased , and tied in , the faeces box I strapped to a belt at my waist .
But this arrangement I very soon found to be both unsafe and very uncomfortable , and I substituted an ordinary military valise , in which X carried the bottles enclosed in thick felt jackets as before .
The faeces box being strapped in the place in which the soldier would carry his canteen , a haversack for my bread , and a pair of thermometers carried in separate special pockets , so as to be accessible at once , completed my equipment .
I may remark in passing that the question of a comfortable knapsack is a very important one , as anything which causes discomfort may very seriously increase the internal , if not the external work of the body .
I have tried almost every form of knapsack , and have found the modern military valise far superior to any other form .
The position of the load is such that the strain is equally distributed , and there is no galling or sense of local weariness on taking it off after a long day 's march , and above all it .
leaves the respiration perfectly VOL. XXXIX .
* H 458 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of free , a quality possessed by no shoulder knapsack with which I am acquainted .
The urine and faeces of the previous day were carried to the laboratory every morning by myself , and were analysed after the following methods .
Methods of Analysis of Trine and Faces .
The urine was passed direetly into the wide-mouthed bottles alreadj described , and after the specific gravity had been taken , was poured into a. large measuring cylinder , and the amount noted .
Distilled water was then added , in order to bring the quantity to a round number of cubic centimeters , e.g.\gt ; if the original quantity was 1320 c.c. , water would be added to make it up to 1400 c.c. After the whole had been thoroughly mixed , the analysis was proceeded with .
This plan was adopted to avoid the risk of arithmetical errors in the subsequent calculation of the results of the analyses .
Nitrogen.\#151 ; This was estimated by combustion with soda-lime , after the Munich method .
10 c.c. of urine were taken and evaporated with a small quantity of well-burned Calais sand and a trace of oxalic acid , over a water-bath at the boiling temperature , in exceedingly thin hemispherical glass dishes .
When thoroughly dry the dish and its contents were pulverised in a mortar\#151 ; all precautions being taken to prevent loss\#151 ; mixed with soda-lime , and the analysis proceeded with in the usual way .
The estimations were made by titration with cochineal as indicator .
Instead of glass tubes I have used wrought-iron ones , carefully tested under hydraulic pressure up to 300 lbs. on the inch .
Objection has been made to the use of iron tubes , on the ground that when hot there is a danger of their leaking , and that the corks burn .
I have found these difficulties to be more imaginary than real , and with a little practice and the use of ordinary care I have obtained the most excellent results .
Recently I have made a number of experiments , in which the urine , instead of being evaporated with oxalic acid as above described , was introduced directly by means of a pipette into a tube already charged with 2 or 3 inches of soda-lime , and a small quantity of cane-sugar at the end .
This latter method ultimately proved equally satisfactory with the former , but it requires great caution and careful watching during the process of heating , to prevent the sudden development of steam in quantity sufficient to blow the acid out of the bulbs ; but this accident can be avoided without very great difficulty .
I have found it desirable , particularly when the latter method is used , to employ bulbs considerably larger than those generally sold for the purpose , and to have a small additional bulb blown , from which the point takes its origin .
This is a great safeguard against the effects of possible splashing .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
459 Chlorides._None of the special methods in use for the estimation of chlorides in urine are satisfactory .
Direct titration with silver , with potassic chromate as indicator , is practically worthless , and the time required and the risks involved in the method of estimation in the ash render it impracticable when time is of any consequence .
I have therefore adopted the simpler plan of diluting the urine with 5 or ( 3 volumes of water , and precipitating with argentic nitrate in the presence of a minimum of nitric acid , and washing and weighing the chloride formed .
The results when the operation is carefully conducted are most satisfactory .
Sulphates.\#151 ; These were estimated gravimetrically in the usual way by precipitation from the boiling urine with barium chloride and a minimum of hydrochloric acid .
Phosphates.\#151 ; The ordinary uranium process was used , and I need only remark of it , the absolute necessity which exists for the use of perfectly fresh ferrocyanide solution .
In order to secure this I find it best to keep a quantity of the finely powdered crystals , and dissolve them as required on the testing the .
I have made no attempt to estimate any of the individual nitrogenous bodies in the urine , but have confined myself strictly to the consideration of the total nitrogen , and the variations which it undergoes under various circumstances , without complicating the problem by attempting to discriminate between the various bodies which go to make up the total which , as a matter of fact , our present methods v ill not allow us to do with enough accuracy to make the investigation worth the immense amount of additional labour which it would involve .
Methods Used in the of Fasces .
The collecting apparatus has been already described , and I need only now say of it that it was thoroughly satisfactory in every respect .
On arrival at the laboratory the cases are opened , the glass dish and cover removed , and together with their contents carefully weighed , the difference between the total weight and the weights marked on the dish and cover giving the weight of the faeces .
The cover was then removed , and a sufficiency of methylated spirit poured upon them to cover them .
This completely destroyed all objectionable smell , and rendered the material safe from decomposition .
I did not estimate the nitrogen in each day 's faeces , but divided an experiment into three periods : the period before the work , the pei iod of the work , and the period after the work .
Each sample as passed was placed with the alcohol in a large porcelain dish over the \#166 ; water-bath , and after being well broken up with a glass paddle , was rapidly dried , and the residue by constant stirring reduced to a dry granulai Mr. W. North .
T Influence of mass , which was occasionally removed very carefully to a mortar and broken up , in order to hasten the process .
The products were separated into three lots , as above stated , and stored in a well stoppered bottle till the analysis could be made .
The total amount of dry matter yielded by the faeces was determined , and the calculation of the analyses made from this .
The nitrogen was estimated by the soda-lime process , the material being reduced to an exceedingly fine powder , and burned in an iron tube 3 inches longer than those used for the urine , in order to secure the complete decomposition of any undigested albuminoids which might be present .
Phosphates were estimated after partial incineration in a platinum capsule by the magnesia method , and weighed as pyrophosphate .
Chlorides.\#151 ; The precipitate yielded on addition of a few drops of argentic nitrate to a watery extract of the dry material rarely amounted to more than a perceptible cloudiness , and consequently no figures appear in the analyses .
Sulphates.\#151 ; The same is still more true of the precipitate yielded by the addition of barium nitrate and hydrochloric acid to the same solution .
It was often an open question whether there was any precipitate at all , so small was the quantity of soluble sulphate present .
This led me to consider in what form the sulphur might exist , and in the light of Lepine 's experiments on the sulphur in the urine , I was led to try the effect of powerful oxidising agents on the sulphur compounds which might be present , and I very soon found that nothing short of combustion in a stream of oxygen would completely decompose them .
The consequence of this was that after a series of experiments I found myself unable to devise a method by which the combustion could be accurately carried out , and at the same time with sufficient rapidity to enable the work to be completed in the time at my disposal .
I regret exceedingly that this should have been the case , as the results of complete determination of the sulphur , both in the urine and faeces , would have been most interesting .
Ash.\#151 ; In the process of incinerating the faeces for the estimation of the phosphates , the ash was always roughly estimated , and so regularly did the phosphates vary with the amount of ash , that as soon as this was known I was able to make a very fair estimate of the quantity present .
When I began these researches I had the intention of determining accurately the composition of each day 's faeces , but it soon became obvious that the results could be of but little value , and might possibly be very misleading , from the extreme difficulty of deciding how far those passed on a given day belong to the day before , or contain something which should be credited to an earlier day , or even to the very day on which they were passed .
I have attempted by Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
461 various artificial means to distinguish one day from another by eating something indigestible , and attempting to use the position of this body as a line of demarcation between one day and the next , but all attempts have hitherto proved futile .
This difficulty presents itself with the greatest force at the beginning of an experiment , because from the concentrated nature of my diet , it is liable and as a matter of fact almost always at first induces slight constipation .
Now that I adopt the plan of fasting from twenty-four to thirty-six hours before commencing an experiment , this difficulty is diminished ; nevertheless in one or two cases I have found that having taken a large quantity of milk on the day before starvation , in order that by the colour of the dejecta I might have some guide to their distribution and origin , that the first frnees passed after the fast , sometimes not till the second day of the experiment , would contain traces of this milk , although the bowels had been freely moved in the twenty-four hours after it was taken .
I fear we must admit the impossibility of completely emptying the intestines each day , and be content with results obtained as they are throughout these experiments by the method of averages .
Even when the bowels are moved regularly every day at the same hour , the amount of dry material is by no means constant , and even when it happens to be the same , the amount of nitrogen contained in each day 's quantity may be very different .
Microscopic examination showed that digestion of my experimental diet was very complete , the undigested matter consisting almost entirely of fragments of vegetable fibre , and a few starch granules ( generally burst ) .
Repeated examinations of a watery extract , prepared by boiling the dry material , failed to show the presence of either starch or sugar in any appreciable quantity .
On one occasion on which I suffered slightly from diarrhoea , the extract of the ash contained an almost weighable amount of chlorides , and the amount of sulphates rose to what might be called " strong traces .
" The whole of the analyses of food and excreta were done at least twice , and whenever a very discordant result was obtained , a third analysis was always made ; the figures given in the tables are therefore invariably the mean of at least two results , closely agreeing .
Methods used in the Analysis of Foods .
Nitrogen.\#151 ; The soda-lime process was used in all cases , every care being taken to ensure complete combustion , by very slow burning and the use of extra long tubes .
The great concordance of the results is , I think , a satisfactory answer to most of the objections which can be urged against the method .
The following are examples :\#151 ; 462 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Sample of flour Dried meat ... Dried meat ... Flour ... ... ... Potato ... ... .
Milk ... ... ... .
Phosphates were always estimated in the ash as magnesic pyrophosphate .
Sulphates were determined in the ash in the usual way .
The determinations have little hearing on the results of the experiments , except in so far as they show that the sulphuric acid in the urine has its origin chiefly from sulphur taken into the body in some other form .
The determination of the total sulphur in the food would have been of little use unless the total sulphur of the excreta had been determined also , and , as before stated , this was found to be quite impossible .
The Work.\#151 ; Perhaps of all the considerations involved in researches of this kind , the nature of the work done presents the greatest difficulties .
We are obliged to choose between certain ordinary forms of exercise and the use of machines for the purpose .
Each has its advantages and disadvantages , and in all it is well nigh impossible to determine with any reasonable approach to accuracy the total amount of work done .
The external work does admit of calculation within limits , but our information with regard to the internal work of the body is scanty and unreliable in the extreme , and in the present state of our knowledge all that can be done is to eliminate the difficulty by making the internal work , as far as possible , a constant .
It is manifestly unfair to compare walking with the lifting of heavy weights or either with rowing or bicyling ; in none of these forms of labour are the same muscles used , and it is not only possible , but very probable , that different individuals use their muscles differently in each case ; nay , more , that the same individual , unless he is constantly practising , does not use exactly the same muscles on different occasions .
Walking exercise is , perhaps , the least objectionable of all , and probably for this reason it has found most favour with investigators of this problem , and for this reason I have adopted it in these experiments .
It might appear that the same distance walked over the same roads , f 1*515 per cent. I 1510 " f 11 -60 " 111 66 r 13 -52 t 13 *58 f 1-70 " l 1*69 f 0 -961 " l 0 -961 " f 1*46 l 1 *48 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of .
463 in the same time , and under as far as possible similar conditions , would represent equal amounts of work done , but a very little experience will suffice to show that such is not the case , and the results of my own experiments will , I think , bear out this opinion .
Although accustomed from childhood to this particular form of exercise , and though the actual distances walked in these experiments was almost always well within my powers , I can say with truth that , measured by my own sensations , I have never before so fully appreciated the effect of what is called " training .
" For this reason , I have confined myself strictly to the consideration of gross results .
When the distances were short , the effect produced was exceedingly variable , and in the final experiments of 1879 and 1882 , when the labour was tolerably exhausting , all that we can say is , that the effect on the discharge of nitrogen is beyond all doubt ; but that it bears no sort of relation to the work done in previous experiments .
In each succeeding walk the average pace per hour increased very perceptibly , and yet I am confident that this increase of pace did not by any means involve a proportional increase of internal work 5 iu short , I gradually " got into training .
" I must confess that I see no escape from this difficulty ; it might possibly be eliminated by continuing the investigations over a very long period of time and taking daily a very large amount of exercise , until as it were the bodily machinery had learned to work uniformly , and then suddenly increasing it v6ry considerably .
In my own case , a daily walk of 30 miles , increased to 50 every tenth day , would express my meaning ; and even if this were kept up for two months or more , I should expect the effect of the longer marches to become less and less marked .
The gist of the whole matter is , that we have to deal with a machine which has a most marvellous power of accommodating itself to the work put upon it , and this introduces a factor into the investigations ot ' which we are at present wholly ignorant ; indeed , the problem is thereby rendered so complicated , that the hope of finding any explanation of the phenomena observed is somewhat distant .
As regards this particular form of exercise , assuming that it is done under the most favourable conditions , the following points must be considered in interpreting the results :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The individual who is the subject of experiment .
( 2 .
) The distance walked .
( 3 .
) The pace .
( 4 .
) The load carried .
( 5 .
) The external conditions , such as temperature , Each must be carefully worked out in turn , and , a very large number of experiments made before we shall be justified in arguing from the results obtained in one case to those of another .
Nor is this all .
Some men are , so to speak , much more economical Mr. W. North .
Influence of machines than others , i.e. , differences of weight and all else being taken into consideration .
One man will do a given amonnt of work upon a given diet , which to another would be simply impossible .
I have had ample opportunity for observing this in the training of boats ' crews in Cambridge , and I was particularly struck by the complete absence of any relation between body-weight and the amount of solid food consumed when no restrictions were placed upon the diet as regards quantity .
I hope in future experiments to be able to reduce the errors introduced by the work very considerably by the use of a work machine so contrived that the external work done can be measured fairly accurately , and the internal work to some extent regulated .
Absolute results cannot , I think , be hoped for , bat much may be done in the way of rendering one experiment comparable with another , which at present can hardly be said to be the case .
I introduce here a series of experiments made in 1879 , which , though not made with such accuracy of method as the later series of 1882 and 1883 , tend very materially to confirm the results then obtained .
'Experiments of 1879 .
The nitrogen of the faaces in these experiments was estimated by mixing the whole quantity passed during each experiment , and making one analysis in each case .
The total quantity was as follows :\#151 ; Nitrogen .
18 " 093 grams .
16 -083 " 15 -294 " 16 -872 " Diet during the Experiments of 1879 .
Food-stuff .
Daily quantity .
Nitrogen .
Coarse oatmeal gr ails .
500 9-4S5 Carolina rice 50 0-484 Dried meat .
GO 6-168 Condensed milk 100 1-330 Fresh potatoes 300 0-990 Fresh apples 3 : 0 o-ooo Beef fat 100 0 000 Yan Houten 's cocoa 12 0-400 1422 18-857 Experiment I " H " III IV Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
465 The oatmeal was made into thin cakes , the rice cooked in just so much water as it would absorb , and eaten with the apples .
The potatoes were baked in the usual manner .
The sugar and salt used in these experiments were not weighed , but taken to taste .
The nitrogen in the oatmeal , meat , rice , milk , and cocoa was deter-1 mined by the soda-lime method ; the nitrogen of the potatoes was calculated from Payen 's tables ; they were all grown on one patch of ; ground on the Rothamsted farm , and were presented to me byj Hr .
Laws for the purposes of these experiments .
Their composition1 was probably fairly uniform . .
, , , _ Nothing excepting the nitrogen was estimated in the food-stufts , and consequently no comparison can be instituted between the ingesta and egesta except with regard to the nitrogen .
The nitrogen of the urine was estimated by Liebig s process ; the chlorides by direct titration with argentic nitrate , with potassium chromate as indicator ; the phosphates by the uranium process , and the sulphates by precipitation with barium nitrate- Composition of Urine , Experiment I , 1879 .
March 5 to March 13 .
I Date .
Quantity .
Specific gravity .
Chlorides Phosphates Sulphates Nitrogen .
as NaCl .
as P205 .
as H2S04 .
Liebig .
I March .
5. .
c.c. 895 1035 13 97 243 2-78 13-80 6. .
1173 1036 12-45 403 2-69 18*26 \#187 ; .
7. .
1266 1 1031 11-46 291 2-32 17 39 \#187 ; w * * 8. .
1433 | 1024 8-95 2-52 292 16*50 ff * 9. .
925 | 1034 12 14 2-16 201 17 09 99 * 10 873 1032 5-81 314 2-89 16-80 99 v . .
11. .
980 1030 12-25 314 2-32 16*16 12. .
1255 1027 1204 2-78 2-85 16 99 " 13. .
*1440 | 1027 14-99 313 2-76 17 31 Totals . . .
10240 1 . .
104-06 26 24 23-54 150-30 Averages .
1137 j 1030 11-56 2-91 2-61 16 " 70 466 Mr. W. North .
Influence of Composition of Urine , Experiment II , 1879 .
March 19 to March 26 .
Date .
Quantity .
Specific gravity .
Chlorides as NaCl .
Phosphates as P205 .
Sulphates as H2S04 .
Nitrogen .
Liebig .
March 19 .
c.c. 760 1035 7 60 2-26 2-67 1401 \#187 ; 20.1 1155 1030 17 77 2-55 2-55 14-51 " 21 .
1485 1026 19-48 2-52 2-64 14-51 " 22 .
2290 1017 21-46 2-50 2-63 16 08 \#187 ; 23 .
2390 1020 21-89 2-68 4-18 21-42 " 21 .
970 1032 12-52 1-70 315 17-31 " 25 1091 1032 17-72 3-00 2-79 1604 " 26 1640 1027 20-50 2-27 2-85 16-82 Totals ... 11781 . .
138-94 19-48 23-46 130-70 Averages .
1472 1027 17 36 2-43 2-93 14 -83 Composition of Urine .
Experiment III , 1879 .
April 2 to April 9 . !
1 Date .
Quantity .
Chlorides as NaCl .
Phosphates as P2O5. .
Sulphates as H2S04 .
Nitrogen .
Liebig .
Specific gravity .
April 2 . .
c.c. 663 5-24 2-92 2-55 13 '04 1034 " 3 . .
1675 22-67 1 '58 2-99 18 -23 1023 \#187 ; 4 1588 19 -83 1-64 2 -54 15-98 1022 " 5 . .
990 19-38 2-34 2-57 12-95 1030 " 6 . .
, 2064 20-64 117 3-32 17-55 1020 " 7 . .
927 14 09 3 07 2-67 15 -69 1032 " 8 . .
1400 18 -95 2 01 2-47 17 -54 1027 " 9. .
1227 18-70 2 -09 2-54 14 92 1029 Totals 10534 139 -50 16-82 21-65 125 -24 Averages .
j 1316 17 -43 2-10 2-70 15-74 1027 Composition of Urine .
Experiment IV , 1879 .
May 7 to May 14 .
Date .
Quantity .
Specific gravity .
Chlorides as NaCl .
Phosphates as P0O5 .
Sulphates as H2S04 .
Nitrogen .
Liebig .
May 7. . .
c.c. .
\#166 ; 695 1031 7-23 - 2 03 1-94 11-28 " 8 ... 1500 1026 20-31 2-88 3 06 16-31 " 9 ... 1480 1022 19-41 2-25 213 12-98 " 10 ... 1800 1026 J9-49 4-28 5-38 24 -03 " 11 ... 810 1033 12-15 3-04 3-29 17 66 " 12 ... 1038 1021 8-64 3-09 3-32 18-69 " 13 ... 1500 1022 16-87 2-84 2-80 16-17 " 14 ... 164 ) 1020 18-77 2-90 2-63 15-16 Totals ... 10463 122-87 23-31 24 -55 132 -28 Averages .
1307 1025 15-35 2-91 3 06 16-33 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
467 Comparison of the Nitrogen , Phosphoric and Sulphuric Acids of the Urine before and after the Work .
Experiments of 1879 .
Daily Averages .
Before work .
After work .
| Differences .
No. I.\#151 ; Nitrogen 16-48 .
16 -87 0-39 p2o6 2-97 2-87 0 10 h2so4 2-67 2-56 o-n No. II.\#151 ; Nitrogen ... .
14-77 17 *89 3 12 p2o5 2 *45 2-41 0 04 h2so4 2-62 3-24 0-64 No. III.\#151 ; Nitrogen ... .
15 05 16 -42 1-37 PjjQg 2 12 2 08 0 *04 H2S04 2 66 2-75 0 09 No. IV.\#151 ; Nitrogen ... .
13-52 18-34 4-82 p2o6 2-38 3-23 0 '85 h2so4 2-37 3-48 1 11 Balance of Nitrogen in Ingesta and Excreta .
Experiments of 1879 .
Experiment I , 1879 .
W^ork done March 9 , 1879 .
No. I.\#151 ; Totals Daily Differenes ... \#166 ; Urine .
Faeces .
Total .
Ingesta .
150-30 16-70 18*09 2 01 168-39 18 71 169-71 18 -85 1-32 No. II .
; \#151 ; Totals Daily ... ... Differences . .
130-70 14-83 16 08 2 01 146-78 18 34 150-85 18 -85 4 07 I No. III.\#151 ; Totals 125 -94 15-29 141 -23 150 -85 Daily ... ... .
15-74 1 9L 17 65 18'85 Differences . .
j ... . .
.V* 9 62 No. IV.\#151 ; Totals 132 '28 16-87 149 15 150-85 Daily 16 53 2 TO 18-64 18-85 Differences . . . .
** . .
1-70 Experiment I , 1879 .
Distance walked ... ... .
Total time of journey . .
Halts ... ... ... ... ... . .
Actual time of walking Average pace ... ... .
Load carried ... ... ... 30 miles .
8^ hours .
1 j hour .
7 hours .
4"28 miles per hour .
22 56 lbs. Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Experiment II , 1879 .
Work done March 23 , 1879 .
Distance walked ... ... ... ... ... ... .
33 miles .
Total time of journey ... ... .
... 8j hours .
Halts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
1 j hour .
Actual time of walking ... ... ... ... hours .
Average pace ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4'55 miles per hour .
Load carried ... ... ..* ... ... ... ... .
24 lbs. Remarks.\#151 ; Stiff north-easterly gale blowing all day ; heavy rain and sleet , bitterly cold .
Experiment III , 1879 .
Work done April 6 , 1879 .
Distance walked ... ... ... ... , ... .
26 miles .
Total time of journey ... ... ... . .
6"75 hours .
Actual time of walking ... ... ... .
6 hours .
Average pace ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
4-33 miles per hour .
Load carried , ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
30T2 lbs. Remarks.\#151 ; Rained heavily and without ceasing during the whole journey .
Experiment IV , 1879 .
Distance walked ... ... ... .
Total time of journey ... . .
Halts ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Actual time of walking . . .
Average pace ... ... ... ... Load carried ... ... ... ... Work done May 10 , 1879 .
... ... ... 49 miles .
... ... . .
12 hours .
... ... . .
labour .
... ... . .
10^-hours .
... ... . .
4"66 miles per hour .
... ... . .
30-31 lbs. Remarks.\#151 ; Had nearly one hour 's sleep in the middle of the day ; the pace during the last two hours was considerably above the day 's average .
I returned to London by train very tired and stiff , but slept soundly and was practically recovered the next day .
Date .
Time .
Pulse , tying- Temperature , mouth .
Body- weight .
Mean daily body-weight .
1879 .
March 5. . . .
8 A.M. 56 98 0 129 31 " 6 ... .
12.15 if 58 98-8 134 06 131-68 9 if 54 98-0 132 56 " 7 ... .
12.30 a 53 98 1 134 31 133-43 8.30 }y 56 98 3 132.37 \gt ; \gt ; 8. . . .
12.15 \gt ; f 52 98-4 134-18 133-27 8.30 if 49 98-4 133 -25 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
41 \gt ; 9 Date .
1879 .
March 9 ... .
10 ... 11 ... 12. .
14. .
15. .
1G .
, Time .
12.15 A.M. 8 7 p.m. 12 9.30 a.m. 2 9.30 " 2 8.30 " 130 " 9.30 " 2 9.30 " 2 1.30 " Pulse , lying .
l'empe ature , mouth .
12.30 p.m. . .
" 1 A.M. 60 8.30 " 51 " 18 ... 1.30 " 57 10 63 " 19 ... .
2.30 " 63 11 54 " 20 12.15 " 58 10 54 " 21 ... .
1.30 " 52 \gt ; \gt ; 10 49 " 22 12.30 " . .
9 54 " 23 ... .
1.30 " 56 8 53 9 PM . . .
" 24. . . .
12.30 a.m. 59 11 49 " 25 ... .
2.30 " 49 11 50 I " 26 ... .
2 56 10 53 " 27 ... .
2 59 " 28 ... .
10 49 " 29 ... .
2 54 10 . .
" 30 ... 1 57 10 54 " 31 ... .
1 51 9 55 April 1 2 49 10 51 2 . . . .
3 " 51 , , ** . . . .
9.30 " 53 I " 3 . . . .
1 56 !
10 54 .
2 53 j " 4 ... .
10.30 " 59 " 5 ... . .
; 1.30 " . .
1 11 55 98 '6 98-2 98- 6 99- 8 98-4 98'6 98-2 98-7 981 98- 0 98 2 99- 3 98- 1 99 0 99- 0 98-4 98 -7 98- 6 99- 8 98 3 98*9 98-4 98-7 98-4 98-7 98- 3 99- 0 98- 0 99- 0 98-7 98 8 98-6 100 8 98-7 99 5 99 0 98-0 98-0 98 -4 98-4 99 0 97- 9 98- 4 98- 4 98-6 98 4 99- 8 98 -6 Botly- weight .
Mean daily body-weight .
133-00 130-87 126-62 130-68 129 00 133.25 13112 133 43 13193 134 50 135 12 133 -00 131- 37 130-12 13137 129-37 129- 56 128- 43 132- 25 130- 75 129- 50 128-31 134-56 132-75 134- 87 133 18 135- 50 133 -68 133 -37 132-18 128-18 13100 128 -81 134 00 132-37 134-68 133 00 135 00 133 12 128- 43 129- 37 128-68 13418 132-50 133 -62 13181 132 -43 130 43 132T8 130 -74 129 -46 130-34 130 -12 13143 .133-81 134-34 133 -52 130 -45 131 -40 133-52 134 00 Mr. W. North .
Influence of Date .
Time .
a Temperature , mouth .
Body- weight .
Mean daily body-weight .
1879 .
March 6 1 A.M. 58 99 0 134-50 132-46 9 , .
98 0 132 -75 10 P.M. 61 99 3 128 -06 130-93 " 7 1 A.M. , . . .
132 -00 11 49 98-0 130-18 " 8 1 52 98-7 134-68 132 -43 10 54 98-4 133-25 " 9 1 j ) 54 98-8 135 18 134-21 10 56 98-4 133 12 " io 12.30 53 98-8 134-93 134-02 8 54 98-0 133-43 May 5 8.30 50 97-8 130 -37 ii P.M. 48 99 0 132 -00 131T8 " 6 9 A.M. 51 98-4 130-68 " 7 3 5 ) 52 98 8 130 -18 130-43 8.30 99 49 98 -2 129 -31 " 8 1 99 49 98-2 134-31 131 -20 9 99 48 98-2 132-50 j " 9 2 99 53 98-8 134 68 133-59 10 99 55 98-4 132 18 11 P.M. 57 . .
134-31 133 -24 , ,io 3.30 A.M. 54 98-4 133 06 11 P.M. . . . .
126-25 " 11 2 A.M. , .
993 129 -25 129 -52 11 99 57 98 4 127-00 " 12 1 99 53 98-8 132-43 129-71 9 99 52 98-4 130 -87 , , 13 3 99 51 98-6 134-31 132-59 11 99 59 98-4 132 -62 " 14 , 1 99 59 98-7 135-31 133-96 9 99 59 98-4 133 43 , , 15 1 99 52 98-8 132-68 133 05 8 99 58 98-0 131 -31 The 1882 Series of Experiments .
The following tables exhibit the whole of the results of the observations made during these experiments ; for convenience of reference 1 have designated them by letters , as follows :\#151 ; Table A.\#151 ; Quantity , specific gravity , and chemical composition of the ui'iue .
Table B.\#151 ; The time of passing , quantity , and composition of the faeces .
Table C.\#151 ; The total daily discharge of nitrogen by urine and faeces .
This table requires a brief explanation .
In order to distribute the faeces as evenly as possible over the experiment , which , as I have explained before , is very difficult to do satisfactorily , I have assumed , as I have endeavoured to show I have some right to assume , that generally speaking each quantity of faeces represents a day .
On this Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
471 assumption I have set back the faeces , so that in Table C they appear opposite the day to which they probably belong .
In some cases this has not been possible .
On the whole I think this plan is better than the alternative one of dividing them equally over the whole time , or considering them quite separately .
Table D shows the daily state of what I may call the debit and credit account of the body as regards nitrogen .
The fluctuations of the " store nitrogen " can be comprehended very readily from it .
Table E gives the daily discharge of P206 by urine and faeces , on the same assumption as that made in constructing Table C. Table F shows the results of all observations on pulse , respiration , temperature , and body-weight .
Table G gives the mean daily value of the observations recorded in Table F. Table H shows the amount of work done , and the loss of weight sustained in consequence .
I had originally intended to enter upon the question of the force value of the food and its relation to the energy expended during the work .
At the best it would only have been an estimate based on Professor Frankland's* tables , and the data from which the work of the body , both internal and external , are so inexact and untrustworthy , that under the circumstances I have thought it best to content myself with a simple statement of the number of miles walked , and the time occupied in the performance of the work .
It will be sufficient here to say that the general truth of the conclusions drawn from the classical experiment of Professors Fick and Wislicenus is confirmed by the results of these experiments in every case .
It is to be understood that except when otherwise , the diet was that given in the table accompanying the section in which the diet was discussed , and that no exercise was taken except such as was involved by my ordinary occupation .
Experiment I , 1882 .
2i4ith to June 1 The figures in Table A point conclusively to the fact that the work done on May 28th caused a considerable increase in the nitrogen discharged by the urine .
The average daily discharge on the four days before the work was 14-15 grams , whilst during the remaining five days it rose to an average of 15-74 grams , and the increase not only affected the discharge on the day of the work , but every succeeding day .
There was apparently no tendency to return to the average discharge before the work , and it would seem as if the exertion had simply served to give tone and regularity to the nitrogen discharge .
* " The Origin of Muscular Power , " " Phil. Mag. , " No. 215 , September , 1866 .
Mr. W. North .
Influence of The average daily elimination by urine and faeces combined is : first four days , 16'64 grams ; last five days , 17*88 grams .
Despite this increased discharge , there were remaining in the body 2*7 7 grams of nitrogen known to have been taken in as food .
The figures of Table E are interesting , as showing that up to the day of work the body was steadily accumulating nitrogen , which was as steadily given out in the period after the work ; it is perhaps a matter of regret that the experiment was not prolonged for a few days , in order to observe whether the ratio of the ingesta to the excreta would have returned to that existing bef ore the work .
It is worthy of remark that though the exercise increased the discharge , the amount of nitrogen retained in the body during the period after the work was greater than before it . .
The average daily discharge by the faeces was : first four days , 2-48 grams ; last five days , 2*15 grams , clearly pointing to increased absorption by the intestines .
The Phosphoric Acid.\#151 ; Comparison of the ingesta and excreta shows an excess in the latter of 2*60 grams .
There can be , I think , but little doubt that this was due to the diet before the experiment commenced , the difference in the P2O5 of the ingesta and excreta for the first four days , i.e. , the period before the work , being 2*72 grams , after the work the daily discharge was 3**84 grams , and the daily entry 3*87 grams , or , allowing for error of experiment , practically the same , since it would appear from the consideration of the phosphoric acid , that the effect of the work was to regulate the daily discharge .
The agreement of the figures may be^accidental , but considering that they are the sum of a number of separate analyses , this can hardly be the case , and this I think tends to justify the distribution of the faeces according to the plan which I have adopted .
The sulphuric acid was undoubtedly increased after the work to the extent of 0*24 gram per diem .
The bulk of this excess was excreted on the day of work itself , as the following figures show :\#151 ; Daily average .
H3S04 four days before work ... ... ... 2*76 grams .
H2S04 fours days after work ... ... ... .
2*88 .
" H2S04 day of work ... ... ... ... ... ... 3*48 " that is , an increase on the day of work of 0*66 gram above the average of the whole of the rest of the experiment .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
Composition of Urine .
Experiment 1,1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
Table A. Date .
Quantity .
Specific gravity .
Chlorides as NaCl .
Phosphates as PoOg .
Sulphates as II2S04 , Nitrogen .
May 24 .
c.c. 700 1022 2-88 2-43 2-78 14-80 " 25 .
800 1026 6-87 2-01 2 75 13-95 " 26 .
1000 1022 11-72 1-71 2-77 14-10 " 27 .
1100 1024 12 93 1-89 2-75 13-77 " 28* 1000 1025 9 39 1-76 3-48 15-57 " 29 .
860 1024 7-83 2-04 2-96 15-92 " 30 .
1200 1025 11-25 1-93 2-85 15-89 " 31 .
1100 1025 13-94 2-16 2 92 15-38 J un 1 .
1210 1025 15 -05 205 2-81 15-94 Totals . .
8970 91-86 18-00 26-07 135-33 Averages 996 1024 10 20 2-00 2-89 15 03 * Day of work .
Composition of Faeces .
Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
Table B. Date .
Time of passing .
Quantity .
Phosphates as P205 .
Nitrogen .
May 24 " 25 rejected grams .
none " 26 .4.30 p.m. 110 2-44 2-22 " 27 2.30 " 127-5 2-72 2-57 " 28 12.15 A.M. 130-5 2-79 2-63 " 29 12 M. 145 2-23 2-52 " 30 2.15 p.m. 119 1-79 2-08 " 31 2 132 1-99 231 June 1 1 108 1-63 1-89 " 2 ... { 12-30 " 147 2-21 2-57 \gt ; 1 109 1-64 1-90 Totals ... .
1128 19-44 20-69 Averages. .
* ' 125-3 216 2-29 2 i for , .
xxxix .
Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Total Daily Elimination by Urine and Faeces .
Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
Table C. Date .
Nitrogen of urine .
Nitrogen of feeces .
Totals .
May 24 14-80 2-22 17-02 " 25 13-95 2-57 16 -52 " 26 14 10 2-63 16-73 " 27 13-77 2-52 16-29 , , 28* .
15 -57 2-08 17 -65 " 29 15-90 2-31 18-21 " 30 15 -89 1-89 17-78 n 31 15 -38 2-57 17 -95 June 1 15-94 1-90 17-84 Totals ... ... 135-32 20-69 156 02 Averages ... .
15 03 2-29 17 33 * Day of work .
Total nitrogen ingested ... ... ... 158'78 " , , excreted ... ... .
156'02 Difference .
, ... 2'76 Daily Balance of the Nitrogen of Ingesta and Excreta .
Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
Table D. Date .
Nitrogen of ingesta .
Nitrogen of excreta .
Difference .
May 24 17-64 17-02 0-62 " 25 35 -28 33-54 1-74 " 26 52-92 50-27 2'65 " 27 .
70-57 66-56 4:01 " 28 88-21 84-21 4 00 " 29 105-85 102-44 3-41 " 30 123-50 1*0-22 3-28 " 31 141-14 138-17 3-97 June 1 ... ... .
158-78 156-01 2-77 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
Total Daily Elimination of P20B .
Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
Table E. Date .
P2Os of urine .
P205 of f\amp ; eces .
Total .
May 24 2'43 2*44 4*87 " 25 2 01 2*72 4*73 " 26 1*71 2*79 4*50 " 27 1*89 2*23 4*12 " 28* 1-76 1*79 3*55 " 29 , 2'04 1*99 4*03 " 30 1 '93 1*63 3*56 " 31 216 2*21 4*37 June 1 2 05 1*64 3*69 Totals 17 98 19 *44 37*44 Averages ... .
2'00 2*16 4*16 Total P20s ingested ... ... ... 34 84 ... .
daily 3 87 " excreted ... ... ... . .
37'44 ... .
" 4*16 Excess of P20s in excreta ... .
2 .
60 * Day of work .
Observations on Pulse , -Respiration , Temperature , and Body-Weight .
Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 2 .
Table F. Date .
Time .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Body- Temperature , F ' .
J L. S. L. S. weight .
Mouth .
Axilla .
May 24 ... 10 A.M. lbs. 129 *75 98*0 " 25 ... 12.15 " 69 91 132*25 " 25 ... 9.30 " 60 71 130*50 97*8 " 25 ... 12 P.M. 63 80- 133 *11 97 *3 " 26 ... 8.30 a.m. 56 78 132*00 97 *2 " 27 ... 1.15 " 68 85 133 *75 97*4 " 27 ... 9 " 53 66 132 *25 97 *2 " 28*. .
1.15 " 65 .
84 133 *75 97*8 " 28 ... 7.45 " 52 64 132 *00 96*4 " 28 ... 10.30 " # # 134 . .
100*0 " 28 ... 10.40 " # # 144 . .
100*1 \#187 ; 28 ... 1 " 28 ... 3.15 p.m. 7.-0 " 83f 114 . .
100*0 * Day of work .
f Taken whilst sitting in the train .
2 i 2 Mr. W. North .
Influence of Table F\#151 ; continued .
Date .
Time .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Body- Temperature , F ' .
L. S. L. S. weight .
Mouth .
Axilla .
May 28 ... 8.25 p.m. lbs. 129-00 99-7 " 28 ... 10 , . . .
99 '2 " 29 ... 1 A.M. 77 102 131 -25 . .
99 -0 " 29 ... 9.20 " 54 79 129 50 97*6 97 -2 " 30 ... 3 64 78 132 -25 .
, 97 -4 " 30 ... 9 46 52 130-75 . .
96-7 " 31 ... 3 60 86 133 -75 , .
97-8 " 31 ... 9 50 70 129-50 , , 97-2 June 1 ... 2.30 " 59 73 133 -00 . .
97 -4 " 1 ... 9.30 " 52 54 131-25 , , 97-3 " 2 ... 2.30 " 58 64 132-50 97 4 " 2 ... 10 54 52 131-25 97-4 Mean Daily Body-Weight .
Pulse and Temperature .
Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
Table G. j Date .
Body- Pulse .
Axillary temperature , F ' .
weight .
L. S. May 24 " 25 lbs. 131 00 132T8 61-5 75-5 97-55 " 26 132-87 62 0 81-5 97-30 " 27 133 00 59 0 75 0 97-50 " 28 130-75 64-5 83 0 97-70 " 29 130-87 59 0 78-5 97 -30 " 30 132-25 53 0 69 0 97 -20 " 31 130 75 54-5 71-5 97 -30 J un 1 131-37 55-0 59 0 97-30 Averages. . . .
131-67 58-5 74 T 97-40 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
477 Experiment I , 1882 .
May 24 to June 1 .
The Work done May 28 , 1882 .
Table H. Distance walked ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Total time of journey ... ... ... ... ... Halts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Actual time of walking ... ... ... ... .
Average pace ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Weight naked before starting ... ... . .
" on returning ... ... ... . .
Loss ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Weight of clothes and kit , the load carried ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
30 miles .
8 hours .
1 hour .
7 hours .
4'28 miles per hour .
132 lbs. 129 " 6 " 28 " Remarks.\#151 ; This was the first long walk I had taken for three months .
I was out of condition .
The day was exceedingly hot , and perspiration excessive .
Experiment I , 1882 .
Whole experiment .
Daily .
Nitrogen of urine ... .
135 33 15-03 " of faeces ... .
20-69 2-29 Total excreta V 156-02 17 32 Total ingesta 158 -78 17-64 Difference 2-76 0-32 P205 of urine 18-00 2-00 P205 of faeces 19-44 2 16 Total excreta 37 44 416 Total ingesta 34-84 3-87 Differences 2-60 0-29 Before work .
After work .
Difference .
Nitrogen of urine ... .
14 15 15-74 1-59 " of faeces ... .
2-48 2-15 0-33 Total nitrogen 16-66 17-89 1-23 P205 of urine 2-01 2 00 o-oi Po05 of faeces 2-54 1-85 0 69 Total excreta 4-55 3 -84 0-71 H2S04 in urine 2-76 3-00 0 24 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of ExperimentII , 1882 .
June 7th to June 15 The Nitrogen.\#151 ; The work produced a very obvious increase on the day on which it was done , which was continued and was even more marked on the day following ; the average daily discharge before the work was 15'22 grams , after the work 17*95 grams , despite this increased excretion .
The reserve at the end of the experiment was only 1*54 grams less than on the day before the work ; in the previous experiment the diminution in the reserve amounted to 1*23 grams .
The Phosphoric Acid.\#151 ; There was an excess of phosphoric anhydride excreted over that ingested over the whole experiment amounting to 0*5 gram , a quantity probably well within the errors of experiment ; still it is worthy of remark that the difference during the first four days amounted to 0*56 gram , which would seem to indicate the previous diet as an explanation .
The Sulphuric Acid.\#151 ; As in the first experiment there is an undoubted increase after the work , the excess amounting to 1*42 grams over that which would have been excreted had the average of the first four days been maintained .
Composition of Urine .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 7 to June 15 .
Table Af Date .
Quantity .
Sp. gr. Chlorides as NaCl .
Phosphates as P206 .
Sulphates as H2SO4 .
Nitrogen .
June 7. .
c.c. 900 1018 2 54 2-40 2-92 15 -27 " 8. .
1100 1023 10 55 1-81 2-66 13*92 " 9. .
1440 1025 16 08 1-87 2-75 13-43 " 10. .
1070 1022 12-42 1-SO- 2-66 12-49 " 11. .
1100 1026 12 13 1-98 3-65 16 15 " 12. .
830 1020 7-58 1-86 3-02 16 -31 " 13. .
1100 1025 12-47 1-89 2-55 14-98 " 14. .
1190 1025 13-78 1-80 2-88 15-46 " 15. .
1290 1023 14-36 1-66 2-79 13 -59 Totals . .
10020 101-91 17 07 25 88 131*60 Averages 1113 1023 11-32 1-89 2-87 14-62 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
479 Composition of Fasces .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 7 to June 15 .
Table B. Date .
Time of passing .
Quantity .
Phosphates as P2Os- Nitrogen .
* June 7\#187 ; * .
\lt ; . .
grams .
rejected .
8 4.30 P.M. 52 114 101 12.45 " 131 2-87 2 '56 10 3 " 114 2-50 2-22 i\gt ; -LV/ ' . . . . .
" n - 12 1 " none 132 5 2-77 2-57 fi .L"* . . . . .
" 13 ... ... 1.15 " 130 2 08 2-47 t 14 1 " 148 2 36 2-81 \#187 ; . . . . .
15 .
5 107 1-71 2 03 " 16 4.45 " 178 2 -84 , 3-38 Totals ... . . .
992-5 18-27 19 05 Averages . . . . . .
110-2 2 03 2 11 Total Daily Elimination of Nitrogen by Urine and Faeces .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 7 to June 15 .
Table C. Date .
Nitrogen of urine .
Nitrogen of \amp ; eces .
Totals .
June 7 .
... * ... 15-27 101 16 28 " 8 13-92 2-56 16 -48 ff ... .
" 9 13-43 2*22 15 -65 if " 10 12 49 0 00 12-49 ff ... ... 11* 16 15 2-57 18 72 ff 12 16-31 2-46 18-78 " 13 14-98 2-81 17 79 15-46 2 03 17 49 " 15 13-59 3-38 16-97 Totals ... .* ... 131-60 19 05 150-65 Averages ... ... 14-62 2 11 16-74 * Day of work .
Mr. W. North .
Influence of Daily Balance of the Nitrogen of Ingesta and Excreta .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 7 to June 15 .
Table D. Pate .
Nitrogen of ingesta .
Nitrogen of excreta .
Difference .
June 7 17-64 16 -28 1-36 \#187 ; 8 35-28 32-76 2-52 " 9 52 -92 48-41 4-51 " 10 70-57 60-90 9-67 " 11 88-21 79-62 8-59 " 12 105-85 98-40 7-45 " 13 123-50 116 19 7-31 " 14 141 14 133-68 7-46 " 15 158-78 150 -65 8T3 Total Daily Elimination of P205 .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 7 to June 15 .
Table E. Date .
P206 of urine .
P206 of faeces .
Total .
June 7 ... . . .
2-40 114 3-54 " 8 1-81 2-87 4-68 " 9 1-87 2-50 4-37 " 10 1*80 0 00 1-80 " 11 1-98 2-77 4-75 " 12 1-86 2-08 3-94 " 13 1-89 2-36 4-25 " 14 1-80 1-71 3-51 " 15 1-66 2-84 4 " 50 Totals ... ... 17 -07 18-27 35-34 Averages ... .
1-89 2 03 8-92 Total P205 excreted ... ... ... ... . .
35 '34 " ingested ... ... ... ... ... ... 34-84 Total P205 excreted ... ... ... ... . .
35 -34 " ingested ... ... ... ... ... ... .
34-84 Difference 0-50 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
Observations on Pulse , Respiration , Temperature , and Body-Weiglit .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 6 to June 16 .
Table F. Date .
Time .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Body- weight .
Temperature .
L. S. L. S. Mouth .
Axilla .
lbs. F ' .
F ' .
June6 ... .
9.30 a.m. 56 80 . . . .
129-25 . .
97 0 " 7 ... .
1.30 " 57 76 , , . .
129 37 . .
97-4 " 7 ... .
10 48 58 14 15 129 75 . .
97 1 " 7 ... .
410 p.m. . .
, , 98-1 jj 7# . . .
11.30 " 17 . .
98-0 " 8 ... .
1.45 A.M. 62 64 15 16 134-25 . .
96-8 8. . . .
10 56 68 13 13 132-50 . .
97-6 " 8 6 P.M. , . . . .
, 15 , .
98-8 2 A.M. 79 82 15 15 134-75 , .
97 7 " 9 ... .
10 52 56 14 14 132-75 . .
97 0 " 9 4.30 p.m. , . . . .
, . . . .
99 0 " 10 ... .
3.15 A.M. 74 84 18 18 . .
98-0 " 10 ... .
9.30 " 50 54 15 15 131-62 97-0 " 10. . . .
2.15 p.m. .
, . . . .
, .
98-4 " 11 ... .
1.30 A.M. 61 78 15 18 132-50 . .
97-2 " 11 ... .
8 50 69 16 16 131-25 . .
97 0 " 11 ... 10.45 " . .
, .
99-2 " 11 ... .
11.15 " 15 " 11 ... .
11.30 " . . . .
99-2 " 11 ... .
12.25 p.m. s .
108 " 11 ... .
4.20 " .
, . . . . . . . .
99-2 " 11 ... .
8.30 " , , , , . . . .
126-75 98-4 " 12 ... .
1.30 A.M. 53 72 16 15 130 00 . .
96-8 " 12 ... .
9.30 " 56 78 16 15 128-75 . .
97 4 " 12 ... .
5.30 p.m. .
, . . . . . . . .
98-4 " 13 ... .
12.10 A.M. , * , . . . . . . .
98-7 .
, 13. . . .
2.15 " 49 54 15 16 131-75 . .
97 0 " 13. . . .
10.30 " 58 52 14 16 130-62 . .
98 0 " 13 ... .
5 P.M. . . .
, . . . . .
, 99 0 " 13 , ... 6 . .
, . . . . . . .
99 0 " 14 ... .
1.30 A-M .
60 84 17 17 133 00 97 3 97-0 " 14. . . .
10 52 68 13 14 131-75 . .
97-3 " 14 ... .
4 P.M. , # , , . . .
* . .
99 1 " 14. . . .
12 . . . . . . . . . .
99-2 " 15. . . .
2 A.M. 60 70 15 18 133-75 " 15 ... .
11 54 56 13 14 131 -87 . .
97-6 " 16 ... .
2.30 " 66 84 16 17 132-50 . .
97-4 " 16 ... .
9.30 " . . . . . .
131 00 Mr. W. North .
Influence of Mean Daily Body-Weight , Pulse , and Temperature .
Experiment II , 1882 .
June 6 to June 15 .
Table G. Date .
Body-weight .
Pulse .
" Respiration .
Axillary L. S. L. S. temperature .
June 6 lbs. 130-31 56-5 78 -0 p ' 97 -20 " 7 131 -90 55 -0 61 -0 14*5 15-5 96-95 " 8 133-67 67-5 75 -0 14-2 15 0 97-65 " 9 133 -00 63 0 70-0 16 0 16 -0 97-50 " 10 132 06 55 -5 66 -0 15 0 16-5 97-10 " 11 129-25 51-5 70-5 16-0 15-5 96-90 " 12 130-25 52-5 66 0 15-7 15-5 97-20 " 13 131 81 59-0 66 -0 15-5 16-5 97-50 " 14 132 -75 56-0 69-0 14 0 16 0 , ,15 131-79 60-0 700 14-5 15-5 97-50 Averages ... .
131 -67 57 65 69 -15 15 -05 15-6 97-27 Experiment II , 1882 .
June 7 to June 15 .
The Work done June 11 , 1882 .
Table H. Distance walked ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Total time of journey ... ... ... ... ... Halts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Actual time of walking ... ... ... ... . .
Average pace ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Weight ( naked ) before starting ... .
, , on returning ... ... .
Loss ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
Weight of clothes and kit , i.e. , load carried ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
32 miles .
8^ hours .
I4 \gt ; \gt ; 7 ' " 4'57 miles per hour .
131-25 lbs. 126-75 " 4-50 " 27-75 " Remarks.\#151 ; The walk was accomplished very easily in the time , and without material fatigue .
I was perfectly recovered 011 the following day .
Bodily Labour upon the of Experiment II , 1882 .
Whole experiment .
Daily .
Nitrogen of urine " faeces Total excreta " ingesta Difference P205 of urine P205 of faeces Total excreta " ingesta . .
Difference 131 -60 19-05 150 65 158-78 8 13 17 07 18-27 35-34 34-84 0-50 14-62 2 11 16-74 17 64 0 90 1- 89 2- 03 3- 92 3-87 0-05 Before work .
After work .
Difference .
Nitrogen of urine .
13-77 15 -29 1-72 " faeces .
119 2 " 65 1 " 46 Total excreta ... .
15-22 17 95 2-73 P205 of urine. . . .
1-97 1-83 0 14 P205 of faeces. . . .
1-62 2-35 0*73 Total excreta ... .
3-59 4 19 0 60 H2S04 in urine . .
2-74 2-97 0-23 Experiment III .
July 5th to July This was in reality two experiments in one , and must be considered in two separate periods , viz. , from July 6th to July 12th inclusive , and from July 6th to July 17th inclusive .
1st Period .
The Nitrogen.\#151 ; Again an unmistakable increase in the nitrogen discharge is to be noticed .
The daily average after the work exceeds the average before the work by 1'26 grams ; the reserve of nitrogen was reduced from 1T62 grams to 10'41 grams , a loss of T21 grams , which was more than made up the next day .
The close correspondence with the diminution occurring in Experiments I and II is worthy of note .
The Phosphoric Anhydride.\#151 ; The increased discharge after the work is very marked , but the total quantity ingested in the time is by no means accounted for , as the following figures show : \#151 ; Mr. W. North .
The Influence of P305 ingested July 6 to July 8 ... ... ... . .
11*61 grams .
PoOB excreted July 6 to July 8 ... ... ... ... 8*25 , , Difference ... ... ... ... .
3*36 " P306 ingested July 9 to July 12 ... ... ... .
15*48 , , P306 excreted July 9 to July 12 ... ... ... . .
14*08 " Difference ... ... ... .
1*40 " i.e. , the work consumed 1*96 grams of the balance accumulated in the three days which preceded it .
The Sulphuric Acid.\#151 ; A daily increase of 0*25 gram followed the work .
Reference to the tables shows that the daily increase was\#151 ; In Experiment I ... ... ... 0*24 gram .
In Experiment II ... ... ... 0*23 " In Part I , Experiment III . .
0*25 " figures hardly to be explained as the result of accident .
2nd Period .
The period " before the work " is in this case only one of comparative rest , because it includes the work done on July 9th .
The Nitrogen.\#151 ; Despite the fact that July 9th was a day of exercise , and that a considerable increase in the nitrogen discharge then occurred , the daily difference between the nitrogen discharge before the work of July 13th and that of the period after it is no less than 5*68 grams , or a total excess on the average before the work of 22*72 grams , and this great increase notwithstanding comparison of the ingesta and excreta from July 6th to July 16th , both inclusive , shows a balance in favour of the ingesta of 6*30 grams .
The figures of Table E indicate , however , that the drain on the store was hardly over when the fast of July 17th began .
I regret exceedingly that I did not continue the observations for three or four days before fasting , as it would have afforded an excellent opportunity for observing the retention of nitrogen in the body , which seems to be the natural consequence of a previous excessive discharge .
Even if we take the day of fast into our calculations , it leaves only 3*93 grams of nitrogen to be accounted for , which may , I think , be fairly disposed of as a portion of a previously existing reserve .
The Phosphoric Acid.\#151 ; Over the whole period , July 6th to July 16th inclusive , there is a balance of 1*24 grams not accounted for in the excreta , and even if we include the day of fast , the ingesta and excreta practically exactly balance one another .
There is , however , no doubt whatever in this experiment , that the severe labour produced a very marked increase in the phosphoric anhydride excreted , not only on the day of work but for two or three days after .
The sulphuric acid , like the phosphoric acid , was nearly doubled on the day of work , and very markedly increased for the three succeeding days .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
485 Composition of Urine .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 5 to July 17 .
Table A. Date .
Quantity .
Sp. gr. Chlorides as NaCl .
Phosphates as P205 . !
Sulphates as H2S04 .
Nitrogen .
July 5 ... .
c.c. 500 1013 1-14 1-77 1-52 9 10 , 6 ... .
600 1018 1-38 2-44 2-94 14-22 , 7 810 1019 9-05 1-71 2-36 12-36 \#187 ; \gt ; * * * * " 8 1240 1023 16 74 1-30 2-44 12-18 , 9 1510 1015 12-78 1-08 3-28 12-47 , 10 1010 1025 10 -43 1-44 3-30 16-35 , 11 990 1021 10-66 1-80 2-47 13-29 .
, 12. . .
940 1022 12-23 1-74 2-28 11-77 " 13 1380 1028 14 05 2-90 4-37 20-22 " 14 900 1022 5-96 2-22 3-42 19 16 , , 15 1500 1020 13 08 2-10 2-97 17 -85 , 16 980 1022 10-51 2 14 2-83 15-86 JJ \#187 ; 17 ... .
2220 1008 8-78 115 0-93 9-46 Totals ... .
14080 125-69 21 -99 33-63 175 -02 Averages. .
1173 1020 10-47 1 -83 2-80 14-58 Composition of Fseces .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 5 to July 17 .
Table B. Date .
Time of passing .
Quantity .
Phosphates as P205 .
Nitrogen .
July 5. . . .
grams .
rejected .
Fast .
, , 6. . . .
, .
none .
; ; 7 ... .
1 P.M. 129 1-07 1 -60 " 8 ... .
1 A.M. 176 1 -46 2 19 " 9 ... .
12.15 " 40 0-33 0-50 i i* ; " 10 ... .
11.30 " 205 3-34 3-43 " 11 ... .
12 P.M. 150 2-44 2-50 " 12. .
{ 12.30 " 88 1-40 1-63 8.30 " 54 0-87 1-01 " 13 ... .
# # none .
0 00 o-oo " 14. .
v. none .
o-oo o-oo " 15. . . .
5 214 4-39 4-28 " 16. . . .
3 176 2-81 3 05 " 17 ... .
none .
o-oo 0 00 Fast .
" 9 " 150 2-40 2-61 Totals .
1382-5 20-51 22-80 13 days .
Averages . .
106-3 1-57 1-75 . .
125-6 1-86 2 07 11 days .
Mr. W. North .
Influence of Total Daily Elimination of Nitrogen by Urine and Faeces .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 5 to July 17 .
Table C. Date .
Nitrogen of urine .
Nitrogen of faeces .
Totals .
July 5 910 o-oo 9 10 Fast .
" 6 14 22 1 -60 15-82 " 7 12-36 2-19 14-55 " 8 1218 0-50 12-68 " 9 12 -47 3-43 15-90 " io 16-35 2-50 18-85 " u 13-29 1-63 14-92 " 12 11-77 101 12-78 " 13 20-22 0 00 20-22 " 14 19 16 4-28 23 44 " 15 17 85 3 05 20 90 " 16 15-86 2-61 18-47 " 17 9-46 0 00 9-46 Fast .
Daily Balance of Nitrogen of Ingesta and Excreta .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 5 to July 17 .
Table D. Date .
Nitrogen of ingesla .
Nitrogen of excreta .
Difference .
July 5 o-oo 9 10 Fast .
" 6 17-64 15-82 1-82 " 7 35 -28 30-37 4-91 " 8 52-92 43-05 9-87 " 9 70-57 58-95 11-62 " io 88-21 77-80 10-41 " 11 105-85 92-72 13 13 " 12 123-50 105 -50 18-00 " 13 141-14 125-72 15-42 " 14 158-78 149-16 9-62 " 15 176-42 170 -06 6-36 " 16 194-06 188-53 5-53 " 17 194 06 197 -99 -3-93 Fast .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
Total Daily Elimination of P205 .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 5 to July 17 .
Table E. Date .
P205 of urine .
P205 of fseces .
Total .
July 5 , , 6 1- 77 2- 40 1-07 3-47 " 7 1 -71 1-46 3 17 " 8 ... ... 1 30 0 33 1-63 " 9 1 -08 3-34 4-42 " 10 1 44 2-44 3-88 " 11 1-80 1-40 3-20 " 12 1-74 0-87 2 -61 " 13 2 90 o-oo 2-90 " 14 2-22 o-oo 2-22 " 15 2 10 4-39 6-49 " 16 2-14 2-81 4-95 " 17 115 2-40 3-55 Totals 21-99 20 51 42 -50 Averages 1-99 1-86 3-86 Observations of Pulse , Respiration , Temperature , and Body-Weight .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 4 to July 18 .
Table F. Date .
Time .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Body- Temperature .
L. S. L. S. weight .
Mouth .
Axilla .
July 4. . . .
10.30 A.M. 53 74 13 15 lbs. 128-31 F ' .
F ' .
96-6 , , 5 ... .
2 50 64 15 18 129 00 97-0 , , 5. . . .
9-45 " 50 70 15 14 128 -00 97-0 , , 5. . . .
12 P.M. 51 72 14 18 127 -50 97 6 " 6 9 A.M. 51 64 14 16 J26-25 97-2 " 7 ... .
12.30 " 68 74 16 17 130-75 97-8 " 7 ... .
9.45 " 54 58 14 14 129-50 97 2 " 7 ... .
12 P.M. 60 70 15 16 132 -25 97 0 , , 8. . . .
9 A.M. 50 50 13 15 130-75 96 8 " 9 ... .
2.30 " 57 74 16 18 131-50 97-2 " 9 ... .
8 56 58 16 16 130 -75 97 2 " 9 ... .
3 P.M. , # , .
, , . .
, , 99-6 97-8 " 9 ... .
11 62 72 16 20 . .
" 10. . . .
7.30 A.M. 53 53 12 13 127 25 97-8 " 11 ... .
2 59 90 14 19 130-25 97-8 " 11 ... .
10.30 " 49 64 15 16 128-75 97-8 " 12 ... .
12.15 " 55 62 14 15 132-75 97 2 " 12. . . .
7.30 " 51 50 13 16 130-00 96-6 " 12 ... .
11.30 p.m. 62 80 15 15 131-25 97 4 " 13 ... .
4.30 a.m. 52 60 13 16 130-75 96-0 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Table F\#151 ; continued .
Date .
Time .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Body- Temperature .
L. S. L. S. weight .
Mouth .
Axilla .
July 13. .
8.15 A.M. lbs. 99-4 13. .
10 .
, . . . . . . . .
98-6 13. .
7.30 r.M. 80 , , . . . .
124 -00 99-2 55 13. .
11.45 " 64 92 17 18 126 -50 , , 98-2 55 14. .
9.30 a.m. 49 66 10 11 124 75 .
, 96 -8 55 15. .
3 62 68 12 16 129 50 , , 95-9 55 15. .
11 50 70 11 12 128-00 .
, 96-8 55 16. .
3 56 64 14 14 129 -00 97-1 55 16. .
11 54 68 12 13 127-50 # , 96-8 55 17. .
2.30 " 52 64 13 14 130-00 .
, 97 -4 55 17. .
11 52 52 13 14 129 00 , , 96-8 55 18. .
12.30 " 56 100 13 13 126-50 97-2 55 18. .
8.30 , , 48 . . . . . .
124-50 98-0 Mean Daily Body-Weight , Pulse , and Temperature .
Experiment III , 1882 .
July 4 to July 17 .
Table G. Date .
Body-weight .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Axillary temperature .
L. S. L. S. July 4 ... ... lbs. 128-62 51-5 69-0 14 0 16-5 F ' .
96 6 55 5 127 75 50-5 71-0 14-5 16 0 97-3 " 6 128-50 59-5 69-0 15-0 16-5 97 5 " 7 130-87 57 0 64 0 14-5 15 0 97-1 " 8 13112 53-5 62-0 14-5 16-5 97 0 " 9 126 -75 59-0 68-0 16-0 18 0 97-5 " io 128-75 56-0 71-5 13 -0 16 0 97-8 " 11 130 75 52 0 63 0 14-5 15-5 97-5 " 12 130-62 56-5 65-0 14-0 15-5 97 0 " 13 127-07 58-0 76-0 15 0 17 0 97-1 " 14 127-12 55 " 5 67-0 110 13-5 96 -3 " 15 128-50 53-0 67 0 12-5 13 0 96-9 " 16 128-65 53 -0 66 0 12-5 13-5 97-1 \#187 ; 17 127 75 54-0 76-0 13-0 13 -5 97 0 Averages \#166 ; 128-77 54-9 68-4 13-9 15 -4 97-12 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
489 Experiment III , 1882 .
July 6th to July 16th .
Two work days were introduced into the experiment , with the view of testing the effect of muscular labour upon the elimination of nitrogen at a time when it might be supposed that the reserve of nitrogen had been considerably drawn upon by previous exercise , and before there was time to accumulate a fresh store .
Work done , July 9 .
Table H. Distance walked ... ... Total time of jourrey . .
Halts ... ... ... ... ... .
Actual time of walking Average pace ... ... . .
Load carried ... ... ... I was prevented from observing my body-weight at the end of the journey , as I did not return to town the same evening , and a weighing machine was not accessible .
The loss of weight may , I think , be reckoned at about 4 lbs. , considering the difference between the weight before starting and the weight taken the next day .
Work done , July 13 , 1882 .
Table H. Distance walked ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 47 miles .
Total time of journey ... ... ... ... ... lli hours .
Halts ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
1 ?
hour .
Actual time of wralking ... ... ... ... .
10 hours .
Average pace ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
47 miles per hour .
Weight ( naked ) before starting ... .
13075 lbs. , , on returning ... ... .
124-00 " Loss ... ... ... .
675 , , Load carried ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 2775 " This journey was one of the greatest efforts I have ever made in the course of these experiments .
The first 16 miles was covered in 3 hours 10 minutes , during the greater part of which time it rained heavily , and the roads were consequently in very bad condition .
1 was excessively tired on my return , but by no means exhausted .
Food and rest soon dissipated the effects of the walk , and the next morning I was none the worse for the exertion , with the exception that I was a little stiff , and suffered all day from intense thirst .
I may here remark that on every occasion on which I have sustained con-vor. .
xxxix .
2 k 33 miles .
9 hours .
2 " 7 " 471 miles per hour .
27 lbs. Mr. W. North .
The Influence of siderable loss of weight in consequence of severe exercise , I have observed this extreme thirst on the day following .
It would seem that a compensation for the weight lost , in the shape of water , was absolutely necessary .
Comparison of Nitrogen and Phosphoric Acid in the Ingesta and Excreta .
Experiment III , 1882 .
12 Days .
Daily .
11 Days .
Daily .
Nitrogen of urine . .
.\#171 ; 175 02 14-58 165 -56 15 05 " faeces ... .
22-80 1-90 22-80 2 07 Total excreta 197-82 16-48 188-36 17 12 , , ingesta ... ... . .
194 06 16 17 194 06 17-64 Difference 3-76 0-31 6-30 0-52 P2Os of urine ... ... . .
21-99 1-83 20-84 1-89 P205 of faeces 20-51 1-70 20 -51 1-86 Total excreta ... . . .
42-50 3 " 54 41 *35 3-75 " ingesta 42-59 3-55 42-59 3-87 Difference 0 09 0 00 1-24 0 12 Comparison of Nitrogen , Phosphoric and Sulphuric Acids Excreted before and after the Work .
Experiment III , 1882 .
1st Period .
Before work .
After work .
Differences .
Nitrogen of urine ... . . .
12 -92 13 *47 0 " 55 f flfieeR 1-43 2 14 0-71 Total nitrogen - - - 14-35 15-61 1-26 P"Or of urine 1-80 1-51 0-39 P2Os of faeces 0-95 2-01 106 Total P206 2-75 3 52 0-77 urine ... ... . .
2-58 2-83 0-25 1 2nd Period .
Nitrogen of urine ... ... 13 23 18-27 5 -04 " faeces ... ... Total nitrogen 1-83 15 07 2-43 20-75 0-60 5-68 P20 .
of urine 1-63 2-35 0-72 P2f\gt ; 5 of fflfioes ... ... ... .
1-56 2-40 0-84 Total P205 3 19 4-75 1-56 of urine 2*72 3-40 0-68 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
491 Experiment , February 5 tlito March 3 1883 .
This experiment was conducted entirely for the purpose of determining the amount of the nitrogenous reserve , of the existence of which , in one sense or another , I now feel thoroughly assured .
The plan adopted was , after having lived on the experimental diet for some time , to abstain from food once or twice , in order to see whether the amount of nitrogen discharged during a twenty-four hours ' fast was much influenced by the amount of food which had been taken for some days previously .
I think I may say in starting , that the result was a negative one , that is to say , that the amount discharged in a twenty-four hours ' fast seems to be practically a constant under ordinary circumstances .
It further seemed to me probable , or at all events possible , that as now nearly six years have elapsed since the original observations were made which determined my experimental diet , I might be habitually taking more or less food per diem than I did six years ago .
In order to test this , from February 6th to February 13th inclusive I collected my excreta , whilst living upon such a diet as I have been accustomed to during that period , without any regard to experimental considerations .
I ate , drank , slept , and worked as though no experiment were in progress , and in order to avoid any possible influence which such observations might have had upon my mode of life , I abstained from noticing the variations of body-weight , temperature , nitrogen discharge , \amp ; c. , as I have found that when I am obliged to make such observations myself , I cannot avoid the effect of consideration of them upon my daily life .
For instance , I feel quite certain that had I known that on any particular day the nitrogen discharge was higher or lower than I might have expected , the knowledge of it would unquestionably have affected the amount of food 1 should have taken on the following day .
This may seem a somewhat extraordinary admission to make , but nevertheless I am convinced of its truth .
During the whole of this first period , therefore , I was careful not to inform myself of the results of the analyses .
On February 14th and 15th I abstained from all food whatsoever .
On February 16th I began the ordinary experimental diet , and continued it until February 26th .
On February 27th I again abstained from all food , returning on the 28th to my diet , which was continued until March 3rd .
This experiment then naturally divides itself into two parts , the period of ordinary diet and the period of experimental diet , and we have to consider the effect of the fasting in each case .
Inspection of the figures , particularly those which show the daily discharge of nitrogen by the urine , suffices to demonstrate the great similarity which exists between my ordinary food and my experimental diet .
2 k 2 Mr. W. North .
Influence of I may incidentally remark that during these six years the variations of my body-weight have been very insignificant , which is , I think , an additional proof that , at all events as far as food is concerned , I have lived , without knowing it , almost according to rule , though it will appear in the sequel that my ordinary diet was in some respects rather more generous than the experimental one .
With this introduction we may proceed to discuss the analytical details of the experiment .
Composition of Urine .
Experiments , February 5 to March 3 , 1883 .
Table A. Date .
Quan- tity .
Chlo- rides .
Phos- phates .
Sul- phates .
Nitrogen ] 1 , combus- .
tion .
Nitrogen b7 hypobro- mite .
Sp. gr. Feb. 5 190 9-83 2-47 333 14-50 13-08 1014 .
6 1200 7-58 214 3-22 13 01 1213 1020 99 v " 7 1400 8-96 2-32 3-71 13-87 12-86 1017 \#187 ; * 8 2620 14 -20 2-60 4-77 18-06 16 19 1014 \gt ; \gt ; ^ 9 2100 10 14 218 393 15-05 13-29 1015 ss .
v , 10 2000 791 2-56 3-59 15-15 14 17 1012 \#187 ; 4 11 1200 538 1-62 2-36 9-63 8-81 1013 , 12 1500 7-94 2-35 4-28 14-27 13-21 1017 " 13 2200 L2-73 2-31 4 12 15-79 14-43 1013 " 14a 1 800 4-10 0-78 115 5-98 5-67 1010 146 J 800 030 0-87 0-65 3-32 3-50 1008 ss .
15a 1 500 203 0-80 0-84 5-49 5 19 1017 99 " 156 J 900 025 1-02 0-64 3-76 339 1006 99 " 16 1200 2-64 2-37 2-92 14-72 13-70 1017 99 ..17 2000 11-90 1-86 2-69 13-99 13-51 1014 99 * . .
18 2300 19 40 1-63 2-95 13-58 12-64 1015 . .
19 1300 13-35 1-57 2-84 12-21 11-71 1024 9 9 xv . .
20 1500 18-22 1-70 2-86 13 -90 13 07 1023 99 " 21 1700 18-01 1-64 2*44 12-72 12-70 l 1017 99 . .
22 2100 20-63 1-99 2-93 13-33 13-42 1017 .
28 1300 17-49 1-54 2-78 13 -43 13 00 1027 99 .
24 1800 20 03 1-80 2-90 15-38 16 -06 1021 99 .
25 1400 11-92 1-40 2-36 11 -07 10-89 1017 " 26 1600 17 15 1-76 2-99 15 05 13.-83 1021 . .
27 2000 9-78 1-16 112 8-66 7-83 1009 28 1200 8-56 1-92 2-76 18-82 11 -60 1020 Mar. 1 2700 11-55 1-62 2 11 11 08 10-27 1008 .
2 1000 4-12 1-73 2-48 11-58 10-89 1019 " 3 1800 16 *73 1-80 2-81 14-12 13 18 1017 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of 49 o i Composition of Faeces .
Experiments , February 7 to March 5 , 1883 .
Table B. Date .
Quantity .
Nitrogen .
p2o5 .
February 7 grams .
240-0 3-83 3 -23 " 8 171 0 2-73 2-30 " 9 83-0 1-32 111 " 10 100 0 1-59 1-34 " 11 130 0 2-07 1-75 " 12 104-0 1 66 1-40 " 13 110-0 1-75 1-48 " 14 90-0 1-43 1 -21 " 15 none o-oo 0-00 " 16 810 1-29 109 " 17 110-0 1-93 1-37 " 18 79-5 1-39 0-99 " 19 1410 2-48 1 -76 " 20 77-0 1-35 0-96 " 21 153 0 2-69 1-91 " 22 1360 2-39 1 -69 " 23 50-0 0-88 0-62 " 24 123-5 2 17 1-54 " 25 93 0 1-63 116 " 26 107-0 1-88 1 -33 " 27 164-5 2-89 2-05 " 28 none o-oo o-oo March 1 none 000 0 00 " 2 134-5 2-36 1-67 " 3 73 0 1 -28 0-91 " 4 144-5 2 -54 1 -80 5 98-0 1-72 1-22 2893-5 47 *15 35-89 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Daily Discharge of Nitrogen by Urine and Faeces .
Table 0 .
Date .
Nitrogen of urine .
Nitrogen of fseces .
Totals .
14-50 3-83 18-33 6 13 01 2-73 15*74 7 i3-87 1 -32 15 *19 \gt ; \gt ; 8 18-06 1-59 19 *65 \gt ; \gt ; 9 15 05 2 07 17*12 99 10 15 15 1-66 16-81 99 11 9-63 1-75 11*38 99 12 14-27 1*43 15*70 99 13 15-79 0 00 15*79 99 14 9-30 1-29 10*59 99 15 9-26 9*26 99 147-89 17-67 165-56 16 14-72 1-93 16-65 99 17 13-99 1-39 15*38 99 18 13-58 2-48 16 06 99 19 12 -21 1-35 13-56 99 20 13 -90 2-69 16-59 99 21 12-72 2-39 15 11 99 22 13-33 0-88 14 -21 99 23 13-43 2 17 15-60 99 24 15 38 1-63 17 01 99 25 11-07 1-88 12-95 99 26 15 05 2-89 17 94 99 27 8-66 0 00 8-66 99 28 12-82 2-36 15 18 M March 1 11-08 1*28 12*36 2 11-58 2-54 14 12 99 3 14 12 1*72 15-84 99 207-64 29-58 237 22 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
495 Daily Balance of Ingesta and Excreta .
Experiments , February o to March 3 , 1883 .
Table D. Date .
Feb. 5 \gt ; \gt ; 6 7 \gt ; \gt ; 8 \gt ; \gt ; 9 \gt ; \gt ; 10 11 \gt ; \gt ; 12 yy 13 \gt ; \gt ; 14 \gt ; \gt ; 15 \gt ; \gt ; 16 J# 17 \gt ; \#187 ; 18 yy 19 yy 20 y\gt ; 21 yy 22 yy 23 yy 24 yy 25 yy 26 yy 27 yy 28 Mar. 1 yy 2 \#187 ; 3 Nitrogen of excreta .
18-33 34-07 49-26 68-91 86-03 102-84 114-22 129-92 145-71 156-30 165"56 182-21 197-59 213-65 227-21 243-80 258-90 273-11 288 -72 305-73 318-68 336-62 345-28 360-46 372-82 386 94 402 -78 Nitrogen of ingesta .
17-64* 35-28 52-92 70-57 88-21 105-85 105-85 123 -50 14114 141.14 141.14 158-19 172-43 190-07 207 -71 225 -49 243-13 260 -77 278-41 296 -05 313-69 331-33 33133 348-97 366-61 379 64 397-28 Difference .
- 0-69 + 1-21 + 3-66 + 1-66 + 2-18 + 301 - 8-37 - 6-42 - 4-57 -1516 -24-42 -24-02 -25-16 -23-58 -19-50 -18-31 -15-77 -12-34 -10-31 - 9-68 4-99 - 5-29 -13-95 -11-49 - 6-21 - 7-30 - 5-50 Nitrogen of excreta .
Nitrogen of ingesta .
17-05 31-29 48 -94 66-73 84-37 102 -01 119-65 137 -30 154-94 172-58 190-23 190-23 207 -87 225 -51 238 -54 256-19 Difference .
+ 0-40 - 0 74 + 0-85 + 5*08 + 6 13 + 8-66 + 1209 +14 -14 + 14-77 +19-46 + 1917 + 10 51 +12 -97 + 18-25 + 17-16 +18-97 * In the construction of this table it has been assumed that the diet February 5th to February 15th was the same as the regulated experimental diet .
41)6 Mr. W. North .
The Influence of Balance of P205 .
Experiments , February 5 to March 3 , 1883 .
Table E. p205 p2o5 Date .
of of Totals .
urine .
faeces .
February 5 2-47 3-23 5-70 " 6 2 14 2-30 4-44 " 7 2*32 111 3-43 " 8. .
2 60 1-34 3-94 " 9 2 -18 1-75 3 -93 " 10 2-56 1-40 3-96 " 11 1-62 1 -48 3 10 " 12 2 35 1 -21 3 -56 " 13 2 31 0 00 2-31 " 14 1-65 1-09 2-74 " 15 1-82 \#151 ; 1-82 Totals 24-02 14-91 38-93 February IB 2 37 1-37 3-74 " 17 1-86 0-99 2-85 " 18 1-63 1-76 3-39 " 19 1-57 0 96 2-53 " 20 1-70 1 -91 3-61 " 21 1 -64 1-69 3-33 " 22 1-99 0-o2 2-61 " 23 1-54 1 -54 3 08 " 24 1-80 1-16 2-96 " 25 1 " 40 1-33 2-73 " 26 1 -76 2-05 3 81 " 27 116 0 00 116 " 28 1-92 1-67 3-59 March 1 1 -62 0-91 2-53 " 2 1-73 0-80 3-53 " 3 1-80 1-22 3 02 Totals . . . .
27 -49 20-88 48-37 Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
41 ) 7 Observations of Pulse , Temperature , Respiration , and Body-Weight .
Experiments , February 12 to March 3 , 1883 .
Table F. Date .
Time .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Body- Tempe- rature .
Axilla .
L. S.- L. S : weight .
lbs. F. ' February 12 9 A'.M .
49 80 12 14 97-0 " 13 9*15 " 50 60 13 14 . .
97-2 " 14 315 " 58 64 13 15 . .
97-2 9 56 69 12 14 134-00 97 *2 " 15 1-30 46 62 13 15 131-75 95 8* )\gt ; M " 16 9 1 52- 52 64 68 15 13 15 14 131 -62 13112 96- 8 97- Of 9 50 54 13 15 130-00 97-2 " 17 ... . .
230 " 52 58 13 13 133*25 96-8 \#187 ; \#187 ; " 18 ... .
10 11 48 48 54 48 12 13 15 14 132-50 132-75 97 2 97-3 19 4 59 80 14 14 133-75 97-4 11 58 .
, 16 . .
132-50 97-2 " 20 3 48 48 13 13 131-50 963 , , \#187 ; **.** 9 48 52 13 14 134 -00 97-2 " 21 4 51 , , 13 15 135 00 96-5 10 52 13 .
, 134 -50 97-3 " 22 !
!. . !
3 53 64 14 15 136 00 97-4 9 54 # , 12 , # 134-75 97-4 23 .
' .
' . ! !
5-30 " 44 , t 12 , , 134-00 96-5 10 54 . .
13 , , 132-75 98-0 " 24 .
' .* !
' . !
4 62 89 15 18 133 -25 , , " 25 8 -45 " 2 -30 p.m. 58 51 . .
14 13 . .
134 00 132 -50 97-6 97-7 " 26 " 27 3 A.M. 65 12 136 -50 97 0 ) ) \gt ; \#187 ; ... . .
10 30 " 54 , , 12 , * , 134-25 97-6 " 28 2-30 " 52 102 12 23 130-25 9.V0I M 9 -30 " 56 12 , , 130-25 98-0 March 1 972 " 2 10-30 " 52 t # 12 # # 130 -25 \#187 ; 3 6 52 * * 12 * * 132-75 969 * February 15.\#151 ; Temperature taken five times very carefully , t February 16.\#151 ; Pulse very irregular .
X February 23.\#151 ; After running 300 yards .
Mr. W. North .
Influence of Mean Body-Weight , Pulse , Respiration , and Temperature .
Experiments , February 13 to March 2 , 1883 .
Table Gr .
Date .
Body- weight .
Pulse .
Respiration .
Axillary tempera- ture .
L. S. L. S. ij lbs. F ' .
February 13 .
" 14 132-87 54 54 62 65-5 13 12-5 14-5 14-5 972 96-5 \gt ; j ^ .
.- 15 131 -37 51 66 14 1 14-5 96-3 ) ) .
" 16 131 -60 52 56 13 14 97 0 17 133-25 51 51 " 18 133 -25 . . .
13-5 14 97-35 " 19 133-50 53-5 64 14-5 . .
96-70 " 20 134-50 53 48 13 14 -5 96-85 " 21 ... ... 135 -25 49-5 52 13-5 15 97 35 * 22 334-37 52-5 64 12 . .
96-95 " 23 133 00 49 . .
14 " 24 134 16 58 " 25 \amp ; 26 .
132 -50 , , ... 12 -5 ... .
97-35 " 27 132 25 54 . .
12 ... 97-80 28. .
130 -25 March 1 \amp ; 2 ... 131-50 52 12 . .
97 -05 Averages 132 -90 52-6 58-7 13 14-4 1 97-03 Division I. February htli to February 15 The nitrogen of the urine from February 5.th to February 10th inclusive , presents very little that is worthy of remark , unless it be that the sixth and seventh were apparently days of small elimination , the ninth and tenth of moderate , and the eighth one of excessive discharge .
The daily average from February 5th to February 10th inclusive was 14'94 grams ; the averages of the experiments of 1882 were as follows:\#151 ; I. 15'03 grams .
II .
1462 " III .
14-58 " giving an average for the three experiments of 14*74 grams , showing I think that my assumption that the diet during the 1st division of the 1883 experiments was very nearly the same as the special experimental diet , is justifiable .
On February 11th , a day of fast , the discharge by the urine was 9"63 grams , on February 14th 9"30 grams , on February 15th 9*26 grams , on February 27th 8*66 grams ; also days of abstinence from food .
Bodily Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
499 It is curious to observe how on these days of fast , despite different circumstances , and the fact that the fast of February 15th was preceded by a fast on the previous day , how great is the similarity in the daily discharge , for again on July 5th , 1882 , a day of fast previous to commencing an experiment , the discharge was 9T0 grams , and on July 17th , at the conclusion of the same experiment , 9'46 grams were discharged .
This gives an average discharge on fast days of 9'23 grams of nitrogen by the urine .
Now turning to the table showing the daily balance of nitrogen in the food and excreta , we find in the first part of this experiment that assuming , as I have endeavoured to show we have some right to assume , that the daily ingestion of nitrogen was practically the same as during the experimental diet , it will be seen that I started with a deficit of 069 gram , which became a balance of 3'0l grams on February 10th .
After considerable fluctuations on the 8th and 9tb , the fast of February 11th reduced the balance to a deficit of 8'37 grams , that is to say , 1T88 grams were removed from the body , and it is a very extraordinary fact , though I fear accident has something to do with it , that the total nitrogen discharged on February 11th by urine and fseces amounted to 1T38 grams precisely .
Supposing this to be a fact , and not a mere coincidence , the whole of the nitrogen excreted on February 12th should be represented by the difference between the supposed ingesta and this deficit of 1T88 grams , that is to say , 6'26 grams is all that the body can afford ; but this is not the case .
In this case as in other instances the deficit is not made up at once , but slowly ; F94 grams were retained on February 12th , and 1*85 grams on February 13th , thus reducing the deficit to 4'58 grams .
On February 14th the fasting raised it again to 15T6 grams , and the fast of February 15th to 24'42 grams , and this closes the first period .
Whatever may be the value of calculations based on this hypothesis of similarity of nitrogenous ingestion , it is , I think , only fair to assume that there was a deficit , put it even as low as 10 grams .
On February 15th I began the experimental diet , with the exception of so much as reduced the daily ingestion of nitrogen to 17'05 grams , and despite the apparent needs of the body , out of 17'05 grams taken in , 16 65 grams were discharged .
Again on February 17th the deficit reached its maximum of 25'16 grams , gradually diminishing up to February 24th , when it amounted to only 9'68 grams , whilst on February 25th the excretion was so small , that the deficit fell to 4-99 grams , to be increased on the following day to 5'29 grams .
The fast of February 27th brought it up to 13'95 grams , which was reduced on March 1st to 621 grams , rose again to 7 30 grams on the 2nd , and fell to 5'50 grams on the 3rd , the concluding day of the experiment .
Mr. W. North .
Influence of Variations from the Experimental Diet , February 16 to March 2 .
Experiments , February 16 to March 2 , 1883 .
Date .
Quantity .
Food .
Nitrogen .
P2O5 .
h2so4 .
NaCl .
Feb. 16 . .
grams .
60 Potato 0-586 0-295 0 126 0-306 Omitted " 17 . .
200 Flour 3 403 0-680 0-032 . .
Omitted " 20 . .
10 Milk 0-147 0-070 0-003 0 403 Added Mar. 2 . .
20 Julienne 0-354 0 162 0-088 0-057 1 " 2 . .
30 Meat 4-065 0-567 0-018 0-051 \gt ; Omitted " 2 . .
20 Potato 0"1\amp ; 2 0-098 0-022 0-102 J I may here remark that the total nitrogen value of the food omitted on February 16th and 17th , and on March 2nd , was 8'60 grams ; exact particulars are stated in the table already given .
So that had the full diet been taken on these d\amp ; is there would have been a balance of 3'1 grams in the body , or rather it would have been possible .
During the whole of the latter part of this experiment , that is from February 10th onwards , my sensations were such as I have learned to associate with the repair of waste , and it would have been exceedingly interesting to have continued the experiment yet another ten or twelve days , in order that I might have had the opportunity of investigating the effect of muscular labour , or of starvation upon my body , at this time presumably in a state of nitrogenous equilibrium .
I do not feel justified in again subjecting'myself to prolonged stai'-vation , that is to say starvation extending over four or five days ; but I think that similar results can be obtained , as far as the nitrogen is concerned , by mere twenty-four hours ' abstinence from food , provided that the discharge of nitrogen has been observed for a sufficiently long time previously , and has been so regulated that we can with some degree of certainty assume that there is a deficiency of this readily dischargeable nitrogen in the body .
That there would be a considerable discharge of nitrogen there can be no doubt , but the source of it could hardly be the same as in the well- or I might say over-fed body .
It is , I think , a somewhat extraordinary fact that , on the assumption we have made that the nitrogenous value of the diet from February 5th to February 15th was about the same as the experimental diet , with a deficit of 15T6 grams , a further starvation of twenty-four hours should have produced almost identically the same result as a day 's starvation , taken haphazard on the day on which I chose to begin an experiment , such as was the case in Experiment Ilf of 1882 .
I do not wish to invest this fig. 9 with any undue importance ; but it certainly appears to represent some definite Bodily Labour upon the Discharge Nitrogen .
501 condition , and I shall not be satisfied that this is not the case until I have examined the effect of living for several days on a diet whose daily nitrogenous value shall be only 9 grams , the other constituents remaining as far as possible the same .
I should expect to find that twenty-four hours ' starvation would result in a discharge of a smaller quantity of nitrogen , say 5 grams , which might be found to be tolerably constant under similar conditions .
When this had been determined , two or three days of a non-nitrogenous diet would probably suffice to indicate approximately the daily nitrogenous waste of the body from other sources than food .
We have no information of any importance as to the minimum of nitrogen required by the body daily in order to maintain it in health , and I feel sure that experiments on the plan indicated would throw considerable light on the subject .
Conclusion .
The results which have been now put on record , whilst they confirm the conclusions of Dr. Parks , show that the disturbance produced by very severe labour is much more immediate and of much greater intensity than that which Dr. Parks observed , the explanation obviously being that in his experiments the exertion imposed on the soldiers who were made the subjects was inadequate .
It has been further shown that , just as in Dr. Parkes ' experiment on the effect of pinvation of nitrogenous food , the diminution of the nitrogen stored in the system was followed by retention , i.e. , by a state of things in which the intake was greater than the output ; so after the disturbance of the nutrition of the body , which is produced by severe labour , the immediate effect of which is obviously to diminish the store of nitrogenous material in the system , there folloAvs a corresponding diminution of discharge , so that the result is the same , namely , that in Dr. Parkes ' words , " an insufficient supply at one time must be subsequently compensated , " whether the insufficiency be due either to privation or to exercise .
A third result of importance is this : that this storage of nitrogen is the expression of a tendency of the organism to economise its resources , which is much more constantly operative than has hitherto been supposed .
Thus it appears that whenever the subject of experiment was put upon the regulated experimental diet , without the imposition of more exercise than belongs to an ordinary active life , accumulation took place even when the daily supply of nitrogen did not exceed 17'6 grams , an amount which cannot be regarded as more than adequate to the normal requirements of the organism .
This tendency to store nitrogen is therefore a normal endowment of the living body , and , if so , the " retention " which follows starvation or exercise must be 502 Influence of Labour upon the Discharge of Nitrogen .
regarded as a mere exaggeration of this tendency , and not as a new process which is set up in the living tissue to compensate for a previous disturbance .
In this , as in other respects , it is obvious that the knowledge which has been gained is only partial .
If , with a nitrogenous income of 17'6 grams per diem , accumulation takes place under normal conditions of life , the minimum adequate supply of nitrogen must be below this . .
We have no means of stating at present what this adequate supply is , but we have reason to believe that it would be found to differ materially in different individuals , and in the same individual in different states of health .
If we could ascertain to what point the supply of nitrogen in any individual could be diminished , without drawing upon his store of nitrogenous material , we should have in this result a perfectly reliable chemical criterion of what may be termed nutritive vigour .
No attempt has hitherto been made to carry out such observations on the human subject , nor do any experimental data exist which would justify even a guess at what the results of a properly conducted investigation would be .
What is first required is to ascertain for how long and in what quantity nitrogen continues to be stored on the diet already mentioned , the period of observation to be at least a fortnight .
This having been accomplished , the next step would be to repeat the observation with diets containing less nitrogen than the amount above stated , but otherwise similar to it .
We should then be in a position to inquire how far the increase of nitrogenous output , which has been shown to be the immediate result of labour , is dependent on previous storage , and whether , in conditions of nutrition which involve absence of storage , the effect of severe labour manifests itself in an increased discharge , and finally whether in this case such work can be undergone without producing other disturbances .
A collateral inquiry , which is scarcely less necessary than that which has just been indicated , must as soon as possible be undertaken as to the effect of varying the relation between the time at which food is taken and that at which the work is done .
It has not yet been possible to attempt to enter on this inquiry , which obviously could not be combined with any other .
Its importance lies in this , that it would , if successful , afford information as to the question whether or not the organism is capable of at once applying the nitrogenous material of food to meet increased expenditure determined by work .
In the investigations hitherto conducted by me the work done has consisted exclusively of walking .
At a future period I hope to substitute other methods of labour , the employment of which will render Norths .
Proc. Roy Soc. Vol. 39 PL .
5 .
Wesrt , Ne-wman .
\amp ; C ?
lifch .
2^ to April * Pi^oc .
Roy .
Soc. VoL.39.PL .
6 .
Me.oL'VL Daily jB ody ^Ycioflvt Vos .
_E xp e rvrw e 7^ t IV .
18 79 M otyr 7 ^ to h/ looy 1* We st , Neivm em X- C ' litl t. Norths .
7 .
ITitroc _m _____13L .
-Elxp eiriryvcrvt J. 18 82 .
ML\lt ; xjr 2 4--K to qTwu 1 ^ .
Vertical bine , wvobLccvb\amp ; $ cLay of work .
West- ISTewma-n .
Jb C ?
litfo .
North , .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. Vol.3Q T otal 12 13 \#163 ; xper'irrvenb II .
18 82 .
bfvorve , 7 t-'u bo cTu-rue 15 If\amp ; rtbcooL bLwe , vruLLcootzs oLay o\#163 ; work , .
West , Newman \amp ; C ' litlr Norths .
Proc. Roy .
Soc. .
24 .5 .5 22 '5 21 .5 20 '5 19 .5 18 i jK 5 Q. \#151 ; .
zr / \ / \ ; n / \ 1 \ ^ t v / v , *r , 1 y~ A y \#187 ; \#151 ; V \#166 ; 1 N k / r \ c f 1 r\#151 ; a ~ !
d -3 \lt ; oL Ur Grn us .
V \ i \ c \ .
p : .
1 j \ \ 'rrp \ \#166 ; ^ N. of , Ivm y II X \ \ : a \ 11 i \ 1 \amp ; .
K j \ f i r \ \ i \ 11 i if \ \ 2 .
5 ~f 1 \ \ \ \ i 11 ; f -\#151 ; 1 1 1 1 1 l i \ iJ \ \gt ; \ \ L \#151 ; jr Jl 1 1 .5 h , S04 O-p Ur Gm us .
.5 14- ' -5 13 .5 12 .5 11 J 5 10 .5 .
a ' 71 I 1 1 I ; i 1 1 \ \ II II 1 1 T i J ] t\#151 ; j \ \#151 ; f\#151 ; 1 \#151 ; y- \ \ Jl fi If .
1 1 \#151 ; 11 \ \#151 ; f\#151 ; / / \ \lt ; \ 11 II r i \#163 ; 31 , it 1 \ \ T / \ \ \ J , .
| i i 13(L / v J - ~r i " '.j \#151 ; y \ ; i 1 1 J , 129\gt ; .
\ -ft Jl \ i i i 12* .
A V it If Toi \gt ; OsLl Laf Ex aret 2^ Grm s. *22* \ N c T ji N of Uri no .
Srm s. 1 12\lt ; cl \#151 ; Ti 1i \#151 ; Me a yi/ JD oily Bo die ' Weig ihi\gt ; in Vbs .
5 \#151 ; L ... S 6 ' 7 8 9 10 7f n 73 14- 15 1G 17*.'* re 7 6 !
i \gt ; 70 11 12 13 14 15 Vo 17 The Verticals iLmye indiccttes the doty of vforlc .
Eocp er'ii'viei'vb III .
1882 .
Jidby 5^ to Vvily 17^ West , Newman .
\amp ; C ?
litk .
Proc. Roy .
Soc-.Vob .
39.Rb.10 .
North .
)\gt ; lo CD *OlO*O^lOC0lOC\lt ; l9^ *9^*0 g * ?
5 * ?
\#163 ; * ?
West .
Ne-vrmfl.it \amp ; C\#174 ; litix .
5 ^ to I/ Lourcfos 3 The Influence of Strain on the Properties of Matter .
503 it possible to vary , as may be expedient , not merely the amount of work done per diem , but the distribution of the work in time .
In the realisation of this purpose I anticipate great advantage from the use of the work machine , which I have been able to construct for the purpose of my inquiry by the liberality of the British Association .
In conclusion , I would draw attention to the results relating to the influence of work on the discharge of phosphates and sulphates by the urine .
As regards phosphates , it has been shown that no increase occurs unless the exertion is very severe .
As regards sulphates , it manifests itself distinctly in many cases , the output of sulphates being in general terms proportional to that of nitrogenous material .
It is a matter of regret that the total sulphur of the food was not estimated .
It is known that the percentage of sulphates contained in the food was insignificant as compared with that excreted in the urine , and consequently almost all of the discharge must have been a product of oxidation .
I beg , in conclusion , to state that the expenses of the present research , which have been extremely heavy , have been defrayed by a grant of the British IMedical Association .
I desire to express to the Association my most grateful thanks .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Part II .
Electrical Conductivity ( tinued).The Alteration of the Electrical Conductivity of Cobalt , Magnesium , Steel , and Platinum-iridium by Longitudinal Traction .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received October 7 , 1884 .
Read November 20 .
The Alteration of the Electrical Resistance of Cohalt produced by Longitudinal Traction .
In a previous communication to the Royal Society , * I pointed out that whilst with iron the electrical resistance is temporarily increased by temporary longitudinal traction , that of nickel is decreased , provided the stress be not carried beyond a certain limit , and this , too , in spite of the change of dimensions , namely , increase of length and diminution of diameter , which follow from the stress .
I further showedf that there is a marked resemblance between the table of " rotational coefficients " drawn up by Professor Hall and that laid down by myself from the results of experiments on the effect of * " Phil. Trans. , " vol. 174 , p. 58 .
t Loc .
cit. , p. 168 .

