A paper was in part read , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity , " Twelfth Series , by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. February 22 , 1838 .
FRANCIS BAILEY , Esq. , V.P. and Treas .
, in the Chair .
Wiliiam Thomas Denison , Esq. , R.E. , and Joseph Locke , Esq. , were elected Fellows of the Society .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity , " Twelfth Series , byM .
Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , was resumed .
March 1 , 1838 .
The Right Honourable the EARL of BURLINGTON , VicePresident , in the Chair .
Alexander Wilson , Esq. , was elected a Fellow of the Society .
The reading of a paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity , " Twelfth Series , by Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
Experimental Researches in Electricity : Twelfth Series .
By Mi ?
chael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Phy ?
siology in the Royal Institution of Great Britain , The object of the present series of researches is to examine how far the principal general facts in electricity are explicable on the theory adopted by the author , and detailed in his last memoir , re ?
lative to the nature of inductive action .
The operation of a body charged with electricity , of either the positive or negative kind , on other bodies in its vicinity , as long as it retains the whole of its charge , may be regarded as simple induction , in contradistinction to the effects which follow the destruction of this statical equilibrium , and imply a transit of the electrical forces from the charged body to those at a distance , and which comprehend the phenomena of the electric discharge .
Having considered , in the preceding paper , the process by which the former condition is established , and which con ?
sists in the successive polarization of series of contiguous particles of the interposed insulating dielectric ; the author here proceeds to trace the process , which , taking place consequently on simple in ?
duction , terminates in that sudden , and often violent interchange of electric forces constituting disruption , or the electric discharge .
He investigates , by the application of his theory , the gradual steps of transition which may be traced between perfect insulation on the one hand , and perfect conduction on the other , derived from the varied degrees of specific electric relations subsisting among the particular substances interposed in the circuit : and from this train of reasoning he deduces the conclusion that induction and conduction not only depend essentially on the same principles , but that they may be regarded as being of the same nature , and as differing merely in degree .
The fact ascertained by Professor Wheatstone , that electric conduction , even in the most perfect conductors , as the metals , requires for its completion a certain appreciable time , is adduced in corroboration of these views ; for any retardation , however small , in the transmission of electric forces can result only from induction ; the degree of retardation , and , of course , the time employed , being proportional to the capacity of the particles of the conducting body for retaining a given intensity of inductive charge .
The more perfect insulators , as lac , glass and sulphur , are capable of retaining electicity of high intensity ; while , on the contrary , the metals and other excellent conductors , possess no power of retention when the intensity of the charge exceeds the lowest degrees .
It would appear , however , that gases possess a power of perfect insulation , and that the effects generally referred to their capacity of conduction , are only the results of the carrying power of the charged particles either of the gas , or of minute particles of dust which may be present in them : and they perhaps owe their character of perfect insulators to their peculiar physical state , and to the condition of separation under which their particles are placed .
The changes produced by heat on the conducting power of different bodies is not uniform ; for in some , as sulphuret of silver and fluoride of lead , it is increased ; while in others , as in the metals and the gases , it is diminished by an augmentation of temperature .
One peculiar form of electric discharge is that which attends electrolyzation , an effect involving previous induction ; which induction has been shown to take place throughout linear series of polarized particles , in perfect accordance with the views entertained by the author of the general theory of inductive action .
The peculiar feature of this mode of discharge , however , is in its consisting , not in a mere interchange of electric forces at the adjacent poles of con ?
tiguous particles , but in their actual separation into their two con ?
stituent particles ; those of each kind travelling onwards in contrary directions , and retaining the whole amount of the force they had acquired during the previous polarization .
The lines of inductive action which occur in fluid electrolytes are exemplified by employing for that purpose clean rectified oil of turpentine , containing a few minute fibres of very clean dry white silk ; for when the voltaic circuit is made by the introduction into the fluid of wires , passing through glass tubes , the particles of silk are seen to gather together from all parts , and to form bands of considerable tenacity , extending between the ends of the wires , and presenting a striking analogy to the arrangement and adhesion of the particles of iron filings between the poles of a horse-shoe magnet .
The fact that water acquires greater power of electrolytic induc ?
tion by the addition of sulphuric acid , which not being itself decom ?
posed , can act only by giving increased facility of conduction , is adduced as confirming the views of the author .
The phenomena of the disruptive electric discharge are next ex ?
amined with reference to this theory : the series of inductive actions which invariably precede it are minutely investigated : and reference is made to the accurate results obtained by Mr. Harris , as to the law of relation between the intensity of a charge , and the distance at which a discharge takes place through the air .
The theory of Biot and others , which ascribes the retention of a charge of electricity in an insulated body to the pressure of the surrounding atmosphere , is shown to be inconsistent with various phenomena , which are readily explained by the theory adopted by the author .
The author then enters into an inquiry relative to the specific conducting capacities of different dielectrics .
With a view of determining the degrees of resistance to the transit of electricity excited by different kinds of gases , he constructed an apparatus , in which an electric discharge could be made along either of two separate channels ; the one passing through a receiver filled with the gas , which was to be the subject of experiment , and the other having atmospheric air interposed .
By varying the length of the passage through the latter , until it was found that the discharge occurred with equal facility through either channel , a measure was afforded of the relative resistances in those two lines of transit , and a determination consequently obtained of the specific insulating power of the gas employed .
The circumstances attending the diversified forms of the disruptive discharge , such as the vivid flash or spark , the brush or pencil of light , and the lucid point or star , which severally represent different conditions of the sudden transit of electrical forces through an intervening dielectric , are minutely investigated in their various modifi ?
cations .
The spark is the discharge , or reduction of the polarized inductive state of many dielectric particles , by the particular action of a few of those particles oceupying but a small and limited space , leaving the others to return to their original or normal condition in the inverse order in which they had become polarized : and its path is determined by the superior tension which certain particles have ac ?
quired , compared with others , and along which the action is accordingly conducted in preferencc to other lines of transit .
The variety in the appearance of the electric spark taken in different gases may be ascribed partly to different degrees of heat evolved , but chiefly to specific properties of the gas itself with relation to the electric forces .
These properties appear also to give occasion to diversities in the form of the pencil or brush , which takes place when the discharge is incomplete , and is repeated at short intervals , according to the shape of the conductor on either side , and according to the species of electricity conveyed .
The diverging , converging , bent and ramiiied lines presented in these different forms of electric discharge , strikingly illustrate the deflexions and curvilinear courses taken by the inductive actions which precede the disruption ; these lines being not unlike the magnetic curves in which iron filings arrange themselves when under the action of opposite magnetic polarities .

