1886 .
] Thermopile and Galvanometer .
II .
" On a Thermopile and Galvanometer combined .
" By Professor George Forbes , M.A. Communicated by Lord .Rayleigh , M.A. , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received February 4 , 1886 .
The author has lately made use of a special form of thermopile and galvanometer combined , which is very sensitive for the measurement of radiation .
The apparatus is especially suitable for use as a line-thermopile .
The first experiments were made with two half tubes , one of antimony the other of bismuth , soldered together so as to make a short tube about 2 cm .
external diameter , the walls being 2 mm. thick , and the length of tube about 2 or 2^ cm .
The sides of the tube where the junctions of the metals occur were then filed flat , so as to present a thin wall to receive the radiations and to enable it to rise in temperature more rapidly , and also more uniformly throughout the thickness of this wall .
This tube was lamp-blacked .
A Thomson 's mirror and magnets ( by J. White , of Glasgow ) , in its usual brass cell , but with an insulated coating , was then inserted in the tube , and the whole apparatus mounted inside a brass cube with a brass cone at one side to throw the radiations upon one junction , and with a circular hole facing the mirror .
This apparatus when properly adjusted with a lamp and scale was found to be very sensitive .
It had been the intention of the author to use a telescope in place of a lamp , but the radiations of the lamp were found to give rise to no inconvenience .
Let us compare the probable sensitiveness of this instrument , say , with a line-thermopile of the ordinary construction of 20 pairs , forming a line of the same length as the tube , the double length of a pair of antimony and bismuth in the line-thermopile being equal to the circumference of the tube .
Let E be the E.M.F. of one junction , and let R be the resistance of one pair in the line-thermopile , and let R ' be the resistance of the galvanometer used with the line-thermopile .
The total resistance of the line-thermopile is 20R , and that of the It tubular one is 57 .
, and the currents in the line and tubular thermo- piles respectively are 20E and 20E If the galvanometer were 20R + R ' R specially constructed to match the line-thermopile , R ' would be made equal to 20R , and the current would be \#151 ; , or one-fortieth of the cur2i rent in the tubular thermopile and galvanometer combined .
Thus it would require forty turns of wire in the low-resistance galvanometer , if these coils occupied the same space as the metal of the tubular Prof. G. Forbes .
On a [ Feb. 18 , thermopile , to equal the sensitiveness of the latter , and a larger number if it occupied a greater space .
On the whole , it seems probable that by specially designing a galvanometer to match the line-thermopile the arrangement would be about as sensitive as the new instrument in the form hitherto described , but the simplicity and cheapness of construction of the latter commends it .
The next apparatus was made according to the following instructions :\#151 ; Take a wedge whose distance from the apex to the base is about 6 cm .
, the base of the triangular section of the wedge being about 3 cm .
, and the width of the wedge 6 cm .
The wedge is half of antimony and half of bismuth , the division being made by the medial plane perpendicular to the three rectangular faces of the wedge cut off the apex of the wedge by a plane parallel to the base of the wedge , and exposing a surface of 1-^ cm .
width .
This is the surface which receives the radiations , and it is lamp-blacked .
A hole about 1 cm .
diameter is now drilled ( or it is better to file it out before the two metals are soldered together ) through the two sides of the wedge , so as to leave only a thin wall along the junction of the metals at the surface which receives the radiations .
A Thomson cell with suspended mirror and magnet is inserted in this hole and the instrument is complete , and ready to be placed inside the brass box with cone already described .
The resistance of this cell is very low and its sensitiveness thereby increased .
Moreover this type has a great advantage in the fact that the mass of metal acts as a damper upon the vibrations of the magnet , and so we have a dead-beat instrument .
The diameter of the cone to receive radiations at its mouth was 5 cm .
A candle at a distance of 30 cm .
from the mouth of the cone gave a deflection of 52 divisions , a reading being easily made correct to one division .
A duplex lamp burning paraffin oil at a distance of Ilf metres gave a deflection of 60 divisions .
The author takes this opportunity to describe a method of carrying the delicate Thomson cells without danger of breaking the silk fibre suspension .
The cell consists externally of a brass tube .
A horseshoe magnet is obtained with the distance between its legs small compared with the diameter of the above-mentioned tube .
The tube is placed so as to rest on the inner edges of the legs of the magnet , with the mirror over the poles of the magnet , the mirror magnets having their poles over poles of opposite name of the horse-shoe magnet , and with the silk fibre next to the magnet .
The mutual magnetic attraction takes the tension off the silk fibre and holds the mirror fixed in position , and the fibre cannot be broken by a blow given to the apparatus .
Fig. 1 is a sketch of the first arrangement in the form of a tube .
\ BISMUTH 1'lG .
3 .
220 Prof. B. Stewart and Mr. W. L. Carpenter .
[ Feb. 25 , Fig. 2 is a sketch of the low-resistance combination , showing the hole into which the Thomson cell is inserted .
Fig. 3 shows the portable arrangement to prevent fracture of the silk suspension .
February 25 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On a Comparison between Apparent Inequalities of Short Period in Sun-spot Areas and in Diurnal Declination-ranges at Toronto and at Prague .
By Balfour Stewart , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and William Lant Carpenter , B.A. , B.Sc. Received February 17 .
Read February 25 , 1886 .
1 .
In a report to the Solar Physics Committee Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 37 , p. 290 , 1884 ) we discussed the relations between certain apparent Inequalities of short periods in sun-spot areas on the one hand and diurnal temperature-ranges at Toronto and at Kew of corresponding periods on the other .
In the present communication we proceed to discuss the connexion between the same solar Inequalities and the diurnal declination-ranges at Toronto and at Prague .
For the Toronto declination-ranges we are indebted to the kindness of the Science and Art Department , South Kensington , and of Mr. Carpmael , Director of the Toronto Observatory , through whom we have received daily values ( excluding Sundays ) of the diurnal range of magnetic declination at Toronto extending from 1856 to 1879 inclusive , and thus forming a series of 24 years .
Each number is the difference in scale-divisions of the declinometer between the greatest eastern and the greatest western deflection of the declination magnet on each day , as observed at the hours 6 a.m. , 8 a.m. , 2 p.m. , 4 p.m. , 10 p.m. , and midnight of Toronto mean time , one scale-division of the instrument being equal to 0 '72 nearly .
It is probable that such differences represent very nearly the true diurnal range .
Disturbances appear to be violent at Toronto , and we have rejected

