]\gt ; 14 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
[ June Subjoined is a Table giving the dates of the various observations , with the reference numbers corresponding to those on the diagram , and with remarks on the state of the sky .
XVI .
On Linear Differential Equations.\ldquo ; \mdash ; No. .
By W. H. L. RU SSELL , F.R.S. Received June 1870 .
The integrals obtained in ] paper on subject were deduced by the same process which afforded the determinants in the first paper .
It is obvious that these integrals could be found by a more dlreet lnvestlg tion .
This is what I am now going to attempt .
It will be found moreover that the present method will have the advantage of the ambiguities arising from the existence of common ftctors in the aIgebraical coefficient of highest differential , the ntor of the exponential in the solution .
It will also be found to lead us --o certain ulterlor results .
Let us take the differenti$l equntion Let us now put in this equation We shall easily see that it is impossible for the exponent .
to 1870 .
] Mr. W. .
L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
higher pofVerS of ( x ) than here given .
Then we shall have these values in the differential equation , and equating the coefficients of the highest powers of ( x ) to zero , we have whence and also ; whence substituting for and reducing , we have as before .
The other tfegrals given in my last paper may be deduced in a similar way .
method suggcsted to me that it was possible to ascertain if any linear differential eqnation admitted of a solution of the form where are rational and entire functions of .
Let , as bef.ore , the diff'erential eqnation be Then it is easily seen that the factors of must be divisors of ; herlce if we we must ' Now this series can idently be in the fornl where can be in desccnding powers of .
IIetlce if value of be ( in the ) osed d equation , may delerminc , . . .
the same process as beforc .
16 Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
[ June 16 , To determine A , . . .
, Iet , or Then the solution of the resulting linear differential equation in will be of the form ; where can be expanded in descending powers of , and therefore . . .
be determined as before .
In the same wfty , by putting , we may determine , . . .
order to exhibit the { tccuracy of this reasoning , I will form some differential equations from given primitives , and then see if the above process will enable us to reproduce these primitives as solutions .
Let us take the primitive From this we may deduce the differential equation Let Ifwe use higher powers of ( x ) in the exponential , they will not give us a resuIt .
Substituting in the differe1itial equation the values of given the earlier of this paper , and equating the highest terms to zero , we have and whence and , or , and and therefore , or \mdash ; The divisors of the first term are and Let , and the differential equation becomes which gives a soIution of the form , when .
Ir we put , the differenti equation will be of the form Mr. W. H. L. Russell on Linear Differential Equations .
17 in the numerical coefficients arc of no consequence , as the equation does manifestl .
not admiC of an exponen solution .
If , then , the differential equation admits of a solutiou the proposed form , it must be one of the two forms , or where is a rational and entire function of ( x ) or a tional fraction .
Using the first form , we should of course determine it equal to ] .
As a second example , we form from the , the equation Here we must put powers of ( x ) in the exponential leading to no result .
, we find .
Let the differential equation becomes which gives .
If we put , we find no expouential solution .
Consequently the solution of the tion , if it can bc obtained under the form we are now considering , must be one of the two expressions , and As a third example , I take the primitiv and from it the differential equation We must evidently here put , which ves .
If , the equntion becomes -2 If we pnt here / ) the in ] the first .
the , and cquate the coefficients of the po crs of to zcro , we ve , whencc , and ; and must ) one of the two IE , or VOL. XIX .

