Further Observations on the Effects which take place from the Destruction of the Membrana Tympani of the Ear ; with an Account of an Operation for the Removal of a particular Species of Deafness .
By Mr. Astley Cooper .
Communicated by Everard Home , Esq. F.R.S. Read June 25 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 435 .
] The former part of this paper may be considered as a continuation of a preceding one by the same author , printed in the last volume of the Philosophical Transactions , and contains an enumeration of many more facts and circumstances , from which we gather that an aperture in the Membrana Tympani does not essentially diminish the power of the ear , and that even a complete destruction of that membrane is not followed by total deafness .
The causes by which it may be injured are here further inquired into , and are found chiefly to be a suppuration in the Meatus Auditorius , and any kind of external violence ; such as blows on the side of the head , the forcible introduction of extraneous substances into the ear , &amp;c. Mr. Cooper proceeds next to describe the remedy he has , in consequence of his repeated observations that an aperture in the Membrana Tympani does not injure the ear , thought fit to apply to one particular species of deafness ; namely , that which arises from an obstruction in the Eustachian tube .
After enumerating the causes which most frequently produce these obstructions , such as colds , which often affect the parts contiguous to the orifice of this tube , ulcers in the throat , extravasation of blood , and uncommon strictures in the tube , the author proceeds to describe his operation , which consists simply in puncturing the membrane , with very little pain to the patient , and with instant relief to the disorder .
Several cases are described in which the operation has proved successful , The criteria are next mentioned by which it may be known whether this tube be closed or opens and lastly , those kinds of deafness are enumerated in which the operation is not likely to produce any salutary effect .
These are , when the auditory nerve is affected ; when there is any alteration in the contents of the labyrinth ; and when in general any derangement takes place which does not immediately affect the Eustachian ttube .

