Comparative Structure of the Brain Rodents .
Average excess in favour of direct transmission .
At the end of 2 minutes When permanent thermal condition was reached Degrees of galvanometer .
Thermometric values .
6 '536 ' 20 -470 0 -004402 ' C. 0 -013804 Unfortunately the tissues with which we are dealing obey no physical law with which the writer is acquainted , as regards the effect of changes of thickness of the conductor .
It is , therefore , impossible to reason with accuracy from one thickness to another .
The effect of the circulation of the blood in the head on the outward transmission of heat from the brain , has been somewhat fully considered by the writer elsewhere.* VI .
" On the Comparative Structure of the Brain in Rodents .
" By W. Bevan Lewis , L.R.C.P. ( Lond. ) , Senior Assistant Medical Officer to the West Riding Asylum , Wakefield .
Communicated by Dr. Ferrier , F.R.S. , Professor of Forensic Medicine , King 's College , London .
Received October 13 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) I have endeavoured in this abstract to summarise the results of my recent researches into the minute structure of the brain in the smaller Rodents .
The pig and sheep , which were the subjects of my former memoir , possess a highly developed olfactory apparatus conjoined to a well convoluted cortical surface ; but in the smaller animals now under consideration the surface of the hemispheres is almost perfectly smooth , while the olfactory organ , from its comparative size and complex relationship , has an important part to play in the architecture of the brain .
Animals possessing the latter type of cerebrum have been classed together as the Osmatic Lissencephales , in contradistinction to those which were the subject of my former enquiries , the Osmatic Gyren-cephales .
My researches into the structure of the brain of prominent members of the former group , viz. , the rabbit and rat , may be considered under two heads :\#151 ; ( a. ) The histology of the complete cortical envelope .
* " Regional Temperature of the Head .
" London , 1879 .
Mr. W. B. Lewis .
[ Nov. 17 , ( b. ) The central projections of the olfactory organ .
The cortex of the cerebrum of the rabbit and rat is naturally divisible into two distinct segments , which ( to follow the nomenclature advocated by Broca ) may be termed the great limbic lobe and extra-limbic mass or parietal segment .
The great limbic lobe is further divisible into\#151 ; ( a. ) An upper limbic arc ( gyrus fornicatus ) .
( b. ) A lower limbic arc ( gyrus hippocampi ) .
( c. ) An anterior limbic arc ( olfactory lobe ) .
Minute examinations of these regions reveal the presence of eight diverse types of cortex , which are distinguished from each other by the number or hind of the constituent layers .
Meynert enumerates only five types as distinguishable in the cortex of human brain ; and since his Sylvian type differs in degree rather than in kind , and should be therefore eliminated , we find in the small brain of the Rodent where frontal , temporal , and occipital lobes are absent , a greater variety of cortical constitution than what Meynert assigns to man .
Meynert 's enumeration , however , falls far short of the truth , since all the types found in the hemispheres of these lower animals prevail also in human brain , which therefore would embrace , at the very least , ten distinct types of cortical lamination .
The eight formations occurring in the rabbit and rat are as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Type of upper limbic arc .
2 .
Modified upper limbic type .
3 .
Outer olfactory type .
4 .
Inner olfactory type .
5 .
Modified lower limbic type .
6 .
Extra-limbic type .
7 .
Type of cornu ammonis .
8 .
Type of olfactory bulb .
The first six may be best summarised by noting the area covered by each , and the special feature bestowing upon each its typical character .
1 .
Type of Upper Limbic Arc.\#151 ; Area .
This cortex covers the whole anterior two-thirds of the upper limbic arc , reaching from frontal pole to near the posterior border of the corpus callosum .
In front of the corpus callosum it spreads outwards over the exposed vertex , spanning the frontal end of the hemisphere here.\#151 ; Type .
A four laminated cortex , as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
A peripheral cortical zone .
2 .
Layer of small pyramidal cells .
3 .
Ganglionic cell layer .
4 .
Layer of spindle cells .
The angular cells forming the second layer in human brain are here absent .
The ganglionic formation is clearly identified with that of higher animals .
Like the latter , they are arranged in clustered groups or solitary file , and are subject to the interposition betwixt them and the small pyramids of a layer of angular or granule cells in 1881 .
] Comparative Structure of the Brain in Rodents .
certain regions .
These cells are largest and most richly grouped along the upper limbic arc and the sagittal border , the layer here attaining a depth equal to that of the similar formation in the pig .
These confluent groups are so rich in cells as to exhibit from eighty to one hundred in the quarter-inch field of the microscope , whilst the solitary arrangement will not show more than six or eight such cells in the same area .
These cells are of elongate pyramidal form , the largest measuring 32 pX 18/ t , but they maintain great uniformity in size .
2 .
Modified Upper Limbic Type.\#151 ; Area .
Commencing near the pos- terior border of the callosal commissure , this cortex spreads over the median aspect of the hemisphere as far as the occipital pole and the junction betwixt upper and lower limbic arcs , and also outwards over the exposed aspect of the hemisphere , ending abruptly at the primary parietal sulcus.\#151 ; Type .
It is four-laminated , the small pyramidal cells of the former type gradually thinning off and disappearing ultimately to be replaced by a deep belt of granule cells disposed in horizontal layers separated by alternate bands of arcuate medulla .
3 .
Outer Olfactory Type.\#151 ; Area .
Spreads over the anterior limbic arc betwixt the limbic sulcus and the superficial olfactory fasciculus .
Thence it covers the whole of the gyrus hippocampi , except a limited area at the occipital end of the lower limbic arc.\#151 ; Type .
This is a three-laminated cortex , possessing only two layers of nerve-cells .
It is constituted of\#151 ; 1 .
A peripheral cortical zone .
2 .
A belt of densely compressed irregular small pyramidal cells .
3 .
A layer of large pyramids .
4 .
Inner Olfactory Type.\#151 ; Area .
This cortex covers the " olfactory field " of Gratioiet , i.e. , the anterior perforated space .
It is limited externally by the " outer root " of the olfactory lobe , and extends inwards to the median aspect of the hemisphere.\#151 ; Type .
A three-laminated cortex , consisting of\#151 ; 1 .
A peripheral cortical zone .
2 .
A peculiar wavy layer of granule cells .
3 .
Large spindle cells , with an arcuate medulla apparently connected with the claustral formation externally .
The spindle cells attain unusual magnitude .
5 .
Modified Lower Limbic Type.\#151 ; Area .
Covers the extreme terminal portion of the limbic arc , and is bounded externally by the limbic sulcus and internally by the vanishing granule formation of the upper limbic cortex.\#151 ; Type .
A five-laminated cortex especially distinguished by its second layer of nerve-cells which are remarkably large , swollen , and irregular , and in fact the largest elements in the whole hemisphere .
They strongly suggest in their form and branching an unusually rich development of the angular cell of the second layer in human brain , the elements of which , if greatly increased in size , would closely resemble these cells .
This cortex also includes two notable arcuate bands of medulla .
VOL. XXXIII .
c 18 Mr. W. B. Lewis .
[ Nov. 17 , 6 .
Extra-limbic Type.\#151 ; Area .
This cortex covers the whole of the extra-limbic or parietal mass , except that portion already referred to as possessing ' the upper and modified limbic types.\#151 ; Type .
It is distinctly five laminated , viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
A peripheral zone ; 2 .
Layer of small pyramids ; 3 .
Belt of granule cells ; 4 .
Ganglionic cells ; 5 .
Spindle cells .
It differs from the upper limbic type in the possession of a belt of grannie cells , and in the peculiar disposition of its ganglionic cells which lose the clustered and assume a solitary arrangement .
The ganglionic cells become more and more numerous and thickly grouped towards the frontal pole , diminishing in numbers rapidly backwards , the granule cells being a more notable feature towards the occipital pole .
Significance of Sulci and Fissures.\#151 ; In my former memoir I stated that certain sulci and fissures accurately mapped out structurally differentiated realms of the cortex .
My further examination of the brain of the rat and rabbit enables me to state that at least seven sulci and fissures may now be accepted as the undoubted boundaries of adjacent realms which wholly differ from each other in structure .
These are as follows : \#151 ; 1 .
The limbic fissure .
2 .
The infra-parietal sulcus .
3 .
The primary parietal sulcus .
4 .
The inter-parietal sulcus .
5 .
The crucial sulcus .
6 .
The olfactory sulcus .
7 .
Fissure of Rolando .
Distribution of Ganglionic Formation.\#151 ; The cortex , which is specially characterised by a rich deep belt of ganglionic cells in close confluent groups , spreads over that portion of the upper limbic arc immediately in front of the corpus callosum .
Still richer in constituent elements , towards the marginal or sagittal border ot the hemisphere it covers the exposed aspect here , being well developed over the three areas mapped out by Ferrier as the centres for the movements of the mouth and jaws ( 7 ) ; of the tongue ( 9 ) ; and of the shoulder and foreleg ( 5 ) .
Along the sagittal border of the hemisphere at the vertex these rich cell groupings tend to spread backwards , but thin out rapidly as they approach the granule formation internal to the primary parietal sulcus .
The same tendency to extension of these ganglionic groups backwards is also seen along the Sylvian border of the hemisphere , along the limbic sulcus .
I have therefore termed these groupings the Sagittal and Sylvian groups of the ganglionic formation .
1881 .
] Comparative Structure of the Brain in Rodents .
In my former memoir I particularised the same features as noticeable in the brain of the sheep and pig , viz. , the existence of an extensive area of the five-laminated rich ganglionic cortex in the anterior regions of the hemisphere with two projecting arms of a similar formation extending backwards .
These latter\#151 ; the Sagittal and Sylvian groups\#151 ; embrace betwixt them an intermediate region of the parietal lobe characterised by a six-laminated cortex with solitary arrangement of the ganglionic cells which are few and poorly developed .
Central Projections of Olfactory Medulla.\#151 ; The medullary connexions between the olfactory bulb and lobe and the cortex of the rest of the cerebrum consist of the following series :\#151 ; 1 .
A central decussating and commissural fasciculus .
2 .
Medullated connexion with striate body .
3 .
Arciform medulla to limbic lobe and occipital pole .
4 .
Superficial olfactory fasciculus , the so-called " outer olfactory root .
" 1 .
Central Olfactory Fasciculus.\#151 ; Of the various medullated connexions of the olfactory organ this exhibits the most interesting and novel features .
After passing back from the olfactory bulb to its decussation in the anterior commissure , its posterior projections traverse the substance of the corpus striatum , and in this course its strands are widely separated by the passage through them of numerous fasciculi of medullated fibres which , arising behind run forwards , some blending with the other fibres of the olfactory fasciculus , but most traversing its structure at right angles so as to emerge in front of it as a delicate fibrous dissepiment betwixt the corpus striatum proper and that portion lying in the olfactory area .
The posterior projection of the central fasciculus upon reaching the outer boundary of the striate body takes a different course in the rat and the rabbit .
In the former it divides here into numerous secondary branches which are directed backwards towards the occipital pole of the hemisphere to he distributed to the cortex described here as of the modified lower limbic type .
A limited number of fibres pass outside the striate body .
In the rabbit , on the other hand , this fasciculus turns upwards upon the outer surface of the corpus striatum , and reaching the upper pole of this ganglion suddenly divides into a brush-like head of fibres , which decussating and interweaving with the callosal and projection systems here eventually terminate in the cortex of the vertex at its marginal angle ( along the great longitudinal fissure ) .
2 .
Connexions with Striate Body.\#151 ; Medullated bundles pass from the medulla of the olfactory lobe and the granule layer of the bulb backwards into the basal portion of the caudate nucleus separated from each other in this region by oblong grey masses which enclose nerve-corpuscles .
The nuclear masses are traversed throughout by C 2 20 Comparative Structure of the Brain in Rodents .
[ Nov. 17 .
the fine non-fasciculated nerve fibrils which originate in the granule layers of the bulb .
A small medullated band for this olfactory area is also derived from the inner margin of the superficial olfactory fasciculus .
An important connexion is established with the motor columns of the cord by fibres passing through this region .
This double connexion of the olfactory organ with the cord and cerebrum is the more frequent occurrence in Mammalia .
In this olfactory area is an extensive system of arciform medulla , which runs parallel with the cortex at the base destined to reach the under aspect of the callosal commissure through the structure of the septum lucidum .
3 .
Arciform Medulla.\#151 ; The more important fasciculi , after piercing the callosal commissure , run as a longitudinal band upon the upper surface of that commi \gt ; sure , just before the latter spreads outwards to the cortex of the vertex .
Its destination is to the formation of the modified upper limbic type , internal to the primary parietal sulcus .
At the occipital extremity of the hemisphere , therefore , there are two important regions characterised as follows : \#151 ; a. Modified upper limbic cor tex containing a deep belt of granule cells ; two well-defined intracortical arciform stripes connected with the cornu ammonis , and the terminal expansions of the olfactory arcuate system .
b. Modified lower limbic type presenting the large inflated cell-formation ; two similarly connected arcuate stripes ; and lastly the terminal expansion ( in the rat ) of the central olfactory fasciculus after its decussation in the anterior commissure .
4 .
Superficial Olfactory Fasciculus.\#151 ; Otherwise termed the outer olfactory root , becomes rapidly attenuated by the termination of its fibres all along its course in the cortex of the anterior and inferior limbic arcs .
It has also been stated above that a large fasciculus from its inner margin is distributed to the deep olfactory medulla .
5 .
Tcenia Semicircularis.\#151 ; This arciform band , arising in the cortex of the gyrus hippocampi , and closely following the curved inner surface of the caudate nucleus , is stated by many authorities to terminate in the descending pillar of the fornix .
This fact I have been unable to confirm as regards the rabbit and rat , but there are certainly two clearly defined fasciculi which descend from the taenia semicircularis , one to arch round into the anterior commissure , probably decussating here ; the other or deeper set of fibres enters the olfactory area .
Hence this arcuate band brings the cortex of the gyrus fornicatus into relationship with the olfactory area of its own side and into crossed relationship with the olfactory bulbs , unless the fibres of the taenia entering the anterior commissure are purely commissural in their character .
The Corpus Striatum and its Cortical Connexions.\#151 ; The following conclusions have been arrived at after a careful study of micro1S81 .
] On Production of Transient Electric Currents .
21 scopic sections , and teasing and dissection of the brain .
The true striate ganglion is mapped olf from the olfactory area and deep medulla by the peculiar formation which I have termed from its configuration the olfactory lyre .
In front of the thalamus opticus the coronal connexions betwixt the striate ganglion , capsule , and cerebral cortex arise , par excellence , from that marginal aspect of the hemisphere at the vertex , which has been stated to be characterised by an extremely rich ganglionic formation\#151 ; a region entering largely into the composition of Perrier 's motor realm .
As the motor ganglia , however , retire outwards before the intervening thalami , their coronal connexions arise chiefly from the upper and outer aspect of the hemisphere , and still further back from the occipital cortex at their own level .
Lastly , the median cortex of the upper limbic arc has throughout its course no connexion whatever with the striate ganglion or internal capsule .
VII .
" On the Production of Transient Electric Currents in Iron and Steel Conductors by Twisting them when Magnetised or by Magnetising them when Twisted .
" By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. , Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the University of Tokio , Japan .
Communicated by Professor H. C. Fleeming Jenkin , F.R.S. , Professor of Civil Engineering in the University of Edinburgh .
Received September 7 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) An iron or steel wire subjected to longitudinal magnetisation by a surrounding solenoid gave when twisted a current along itself , which was observed by means of a ballistic mirror galvanometer in circuit with the wire .
When the twist was that of a common screw the transient current flowed along the wire from the nominal N. to the nominal S. end .
An opposite twist gave an oppositely directed current .
Reversal of the longitudinal magnetisation of the wire , when it was held twisted , gave a strong transient current , but mere interruption or reapplication of the magnetising current gave effects so relatively feeble as not to admit of measurement by the same appliances .
When there was no torsion on the wire , reversal of the magnetising force gave no current .
The first application of the magnetising force after the wire was twisted gave a current .
A permanently magnetised wire gave when twisted a transient current of the same sign as that described above ( from N. to S. if the twist was that of a common screw ) .

