XIV .
-A : Letter on the Alterations that have taken place in the Structure of Rocks , on the Surface of the basaltic Country in the Counties of Derry and Antrim .
Addressed to Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R. S. By William Richardson , D. D. Read March 17 , i8o8 .
SIR , I REQUEST you will be so good as to lay before the Royal Society , the following Observations on the Natural History of that part of Antrim , ( contiguous to the Giant 's Causeway , ) which you and I examined so carefully together .
I know not any country that deserves so well to have its facts faithfully recorded ; from the important conclusions to which they lead .
The basaltic area ( taken in its whole extent ) comprehends the greater part of Antrim , and the east side of Derry to a considerable depth .
In a geological point of view , nature * has been very kind to this district , for not content with assembling together in a small space so many of her curious productions , and arranging them with more regularity and steadiness than In any other country described , she has condescended occasionally to withdraw the veil , and lay herself open to view , often exhibiting a spectacle equally gratifying to the admirer of magnificence , and to the ; curious naturalist , who can here ; by simple inspection , trae:the arrangements which are to be discovered elsewhere , only by penetrating beneath the surface of the earth .
As soon as we enter the basaltic area , we begin to perceive traceisof these arrangements ; as we advance farther north , thieyincrease ; and in the tract near the shore , and especally at the island of Rathlin , which seems to have come fresher from the hand of nature than the rest of our area ; the stratificationl of the whole is perfectly visible , and the nature of the several strata laid open to us at their abrupt and precipitous terminations .
To the southward we perceive the distinctive features abate , and wear away ; the basaltic stratification indeed remains , but is no longer displayed to us in the same manner ; the neat , prismatic , internal construction , of the strata , which occurs so frequently on , and near , the coast , is scarcely to -be met with at a distance from it ; a rude columnar appearance is all we find , and that but rarely .
It is at the periphery of our area , and especially at its northern side , that every thing is displayed to the greatest advantage ; here we have perpendicular facades often continuous for miles , and every separate stratum completely open to examination .
Of these fa9ades , four are more distinguished by their grandeur and beauty than the rest , Magilligan Rock , Cave Hill , Bengore , and FairJhead .
The two former are at the extreme points of the northwcst diagonal of our area , and nearly forty miles asunder ; they are at the summits of mountains , and accessible by land .
The precipitous faces ofp,.FirhXead andm Begore , to which had Ithe pleasure of attending you , and which are visible only -from .
the sea , are the most beautiful , :and the most curious ; for tha strata , which at Iagilzgan and ; Cave HIll , are all nearly similar , at Fairhead and Bengore are much diversified.:Of Fairhead I have already published an account in NICHOLSON'S JOURaNAL , for December , 180o , and I now propose to .
execute an intention which I have had for some years of giving a minute account of Bengore .
I am aware that it will be extremely difficult to convey a clear and adequate idea of an assemblage of i6 strata , ( for such is the number of which our promontory is composed ) , appearing and:disappearing at various altitudes , yet retaining each its own proper place , and forming together a most beautiful and regular whole , though never considered as such before .
But as , I have the aid of very correct views of the most important parts of the fagade , to the accuracy and fidelity of which I have already obtained your testimony-I shall venture to proceed , for I am anxious to bring into notice the most complete exposure of the internal structure of a district , that I have seen or read of ; as there is little likelihood that any other person will enjoy the opportunities which I have had for so many years , of exploring this interesting part of our coast , through a turbulent sea , and rapid tides .
Description of the Promontory of Bengore , and its Stratification .
THIS promontory commences at the termination of BushJbot Strand , where the coast , the general direction of which for several miles had been due east and west , turns to the northeast , and after being cut into several semi-circular bays , 189 deflects to the S. S. E. and near the old castle of Dunseverick , resumes its former rectilineal and nearly eastern direction .
The promontory occupies the interval between D : ; nseverick , and the Black Rock , at the end of Bushfoot Strand , about four English miles ; the facades commence at Black Rock , and increase in height until we reach Pleskin , where the perpendicular part at the summit is 170 feet , and the precipitous part from the bottom of the pillars to the sea 200 .
As we proceed on from Pleskin to Dunseverick , the height gradually abates , and is finally reduced to about ioo feet .
In this whole space , wherever the precipice is accurately perpendicular , the several strata are easily distinguished from each other , but where the slightest obliquity prevails , a grassy covering is formed that effectually conceals all beneath it ; hence the face of the precipice seems much diversified ; the columnar strata in some places only exhibiting detached groups of pillars , while in others they form extensive colonnades .
I shall now state the appearances as we approach , and coast the promontory from the westward , noticing in this first view of the precipice , every thing that may be considered as general , and reserving ( as I did with you ) for my return in the contrary direction , a detailed account of the strata taken separately .
The first circumstance , that occurs to the attentive observer on his approach , is , that although both the promontory itself , and the strata composing it , ascend to the northward , yet it is not in the same angle , the strata being more inclined to the horizon than the line tracing the surface of the.promontory , a fact which I shall account for afterwards .
From the Black Rock to the Giants Causeway ( about a my ) the mterials , and theira arrangme are similar to thS of the coast to the westward , viz. , strata of table basalt , generally , separated by thinner strata of a reddish substance .
At the Giant 's Causeway a new arrangement commences , one of the little systems I have mentioned in other memoirs , by the aggregate of which our coast is formed ; nature haviitg changed her materials , or their disposition , or both , eve'y two or three miles .
To the system of strata compreheinced between the Giant 's Causeway and Dunseverick I now liliit myself as all the strata composing it emerge between these twjo points .
As we proceed along the coast from the Giant 's Causeway ?
astwardc .
we perceive the whole mass of strata ascend gradual , culmn t ate at the northern point of the promontory , and then descend more rapidly , as the land falls away to the south-east , until having traced them across the face of the precipice we see them imtmerge separately at and beyond Portmoowz Whyn Dykes .
The western side of the promontory is cut down perpendicuarl'y , by eleven lWhvn Dykes ; the intervals between them are unequal , but they all reach from the top of the precipice to the water , out of which some of them again emerge in considerable fragments ; they are all constructed of horizontal prisms , which are strongly contrasted with the vertical pillars of the strata through which they pass .
One of the dykes at Port Cooan , on Bengore , half a mile from the Giant 's Causeway , is very beautiful ; an insuIated rock about 16o feet high , and 20 in diameter , stands perpendicular in the middle of a small bay ; the main bJdy of the rock is similar to the contiguous consolidated masses ; but on the east side a singular whyn dyke is joined to it , composed , ( as they often are , ) of several walls agglutinated together , with wall-like fragments of other parts of the dyke emerging at their base ; the solid mass of dyke is seen cutting down the precipice to the southward at 150 yards distance .
Depressions of the Strata .
Soon after we have passed the last of our whyn dykes at Port Spagna , ( a name derived from a vessel belonging to the Spanish Armada having been driven ashore in that Creek ) , we discover a new and curious circumstance , viz. that the western half of the promontory has sunk or subsided between thirty and forty feet , without the slightest concussion or derangement of the parallelism of the strata .
Two other depressions appear as we proceed onwards , one at Portmoon , and the other at the angle where the promontory begins to project from the rectilineal coast ; these however are far less considerable in thickness than the preceding , neither of them exceeding five feet .
Such depressions occur at the collieries near Ballycastle , and generally on one side of a whyn dyke .
We have also at Seaport , two miles west from the Giant 's Causeway , a dyke , oblique and undulating , with a depression of the strata of about four feet on one side ; but on Bengore promontory our dykes are unaccompanied by depressions of the strata , and where we havedepressions , we do not find a trace of a dyke .
The portions of this extensive faCade , which I have selected for explanatory views , are Portmoof , in or near which most of the strata emerge , and Pleskin , where the strata culminate , each of these views too , ,exhibits , one of our depressions , but in that of Pleskin , the first apparent depression is , purely an optical effect arising from the position of my friend MAJOR O'NEAL , of the 56th , who took his view from the water .
Enumeration of the sixteen Strata that compose the Promontory of Bengore , taken in their regular Order , and counting from above. .
The country immediately to the southward of Bengoreis like the Promontory itself , a stratified mass , accumulated : to : the summits of rag Park and Croagmore , the first-five hundred and the second seven hundred feet high ; but with these strata I havenothing to do , limiting tmyhosel alone of which the promontory is formed , : and Which are exhibited in its facades.:The : uppermost of these commences near half a mile to the eastward of the angle , where the coast deflecting from its due east andwest course , turns to the north-west , and begins to form the promontory .
So far the course of this stratum is to appearance perfectly orizontal , for the strata : all ascending to the north ; the intersection of their planes with the plane of the sea , 'itst run east and 'west,.that is , in the present case it coincides with the direction of the coast .
'But when the coast changes its direction , this coincidence cease- , tad the faeade ( that is the vertical section of the coast ) losing its east and west course , its strata must appear to ascend towards the poit it turns to , therefore the strata at Portmoon , and along the north-east side of the promontory , should ascend-obliquely alon the fa9ades , as theya actually do .
First Strattum ( ) The strtum : I comtence wumith , for.ms ; , , e , who , efac-ade , from its first appearance until it reaches the.rmompntry ; it consists of massive pillars .
rather rudre , and about sixty feet loong , its course for half a mile ( as I have stated ) seems horiZQZntal , but on the face of the promontory it asceds , and continues to rise uniformly until it reaches the stmi ?
t , hich it ines i-as fr.as Portmo on , on , the south side of -:which jt lises some of its thickness , then suddenly disappears and-vanishes from that .
; fa de , , receding , westward : in th:rm of a stony idge , i and is .
seenno more .
Second Stratum ( k ) .
The stratum ponwhich the..preceding rests , is red as brick and about nine feet thick ; ;.it appears in spots , nd patchesjust abiov-e -igh .
water , mark , i -solong.as:the incumb ut , atWraum comintues horizontai , bu , t when : that ises obli e the isecond ascends:with it ; it lis now.completely displayed , , an rhaving supported the preceding in its course to the .
sumit , anshes with it ( at x in the view ofPortmoon , ) and is seen no more .
These ochreous matters , so commo in all basaltic countries , -according:to Mr. rF .
ST , .
FoN 's opini , wee once pew aat , but.have : undergone : : so chemical processof nature we are unacquainted with , by which their colour has fbeen .
d:ngtd .
Third Stratum , ( i ) The next stratum is the last of those composing the promontory which appears beyond it ; for so long as the first and second continue : their.-hori , ntal course tow:ards .
@egore , thisithird accompani es - ; them , she.wing itl:upperi stefaebetween high and low water mark ; butwhen it ascends along with the others across the faades it displays its wholethickness , above fifty feet .
This stratum is of that variety of basalt , I have on different occasitns.-disinuished by the name irregular prismatic ; it resemblesi::the columnar basaltin grain , but differs from it totally inprinciple of internal construction , for its prisms are small , notarticultted , and indiffrent as to the position of their axes , ,which is : ppepetually chaning .
The irregular prismatic basalt accompanies the columnar in most countries , as at Pont du Baume , at Trezza , at " :Bolsena-in the Sound of Mull , and at Staffa .
In Antrim , it is very common ; and here is a striking resemblance between the rock cro-ning the celebrated columns at Staffa , and a stratum coveringa very neac deat n lCraig ahullur , near Portrush .
Thits stratumit. .
( as is well exhibited in the view of Portmoon ) is : Oalloped( .
off irregutarly from:the point where it becomes supedficil ( x ) , -until it completely disappears at ( z ) ; a thin stripe:of itsower edge alone is ever resumed again , Fourth Stratum , : ( h ) .
-Thein eXt three .
strata will requireonly very short descriptions ; the bfurth is about seven feet thick , entirely columnar , the'pi:llars small , but not-neat ; they appear very white ' from a thick covering of Byssus saxatilis , which shows a great predilection for this stratum .
Fifth Stratum , ( g ) .
This stratum is ochreous , and more of a slate colour than any of the other red strata ; as it is friable , it soon acquires aCc ms .
grassy coat , through , which it is only in spots that it shows its proper colour ; it is about eight feet thick .
Sixth Stratum , ( f ) .
This stratum is composed of rude massive pillars so coarsely formed , that on the least abatement of perpendicularity the columnar form can scarcely be traced .
This stratum is about ten feet thick , it forms the vertex of the beautiful conical island Beanyn Daana , and is marked in the views ( f ) These last strata , though they have nothing very remarkable in themselves , nor contribute much to the beauty of the fa ; ade ; yet they exhibit one of the most important facts I am acquainted with in natural history , and which , when attentively considered , throws much light on the nature of the operations performed upon our globe since its consolidation , and leads us irresistibly to conclusions extraordinary and unexpected .
The fourth , fifth , and sixth strata reach the top of the precipice , and vanish together at the waterfall in the north-west corner of Portmoon .
When they come to the surface , they turn inland to the westward in long stony ridges ; these obstruct the course of the waters in their descent along the inclined plane , formed by the surface of the promontory , and throw them over the precipice , in a cascade highly beautiful after rain .
On the facades to the north-west not a trace of them appears , these being entirely formed by the lower strata , which I have not yet noticed ' ; but at the distance of a mile , at the great depression ( already mentioned ) , the fourth , fifth , and sixth strata , with a narrow stripe of the third , suddenly appear , in thir regular posts teir proper order , and with all the characteristic marks peculiar to each separate stratum .
In the interval between the depression at Pleskin , and the Giant 's Causeway ( about a mile ) , these three strata often appear in a desultory way on the summit of the precipice , wherever it is of sufficient height to receive them , always preserving their usual thickness , their characters , and their order ; so that a person master of the order I am detailing , as he approaches a rising point of the precipice , can tell its:strata , and their order , before he is near enough to distinguish them .
Seventh Stratum , ( d ) .
The rude and massive pillars of the sixth stratum pass into the neater , and much longer columns of the seventh , without interrupting the solidity or continuity of the material ; exactly as a down held hand appears to separate into fingers .
The thickness of this stratum , that is the length of the pillars of which it is formed , is fifty-four feet ; itis marked ( d ) in the two views , and in its passage across the face of the precipice , displays more beautiful colonnades than any of the others .
This seventh stratum emerges from the beach immediately behind the south-east point of Portmoxn , and where it first shows itself in that bay , has its lower edge raised only a few feet above the water ; it forms the upper frustum of the larger of the two conical islands , ascends obliquely along the face of Portmoon , and continues to rise until it composes the upper ' range in the beautiful facade , properly called Bengore Head .
This is probably the most magnificent of all , its convexity towards the sea producing a fine effect .
The lower edge of this stratum , that is the line forming the base of its pillars , 197 has here , as at Pleskin , attaned ; e height of three hundred feet.abve the ater .
This seventh stratm , Hike those.ab ove ii alsao siuffers an inm terruption ; for after:having exhibited:itself t:sucl great advan : tage at -Bengore , the:extreme northern point of the promontory lowers , and this stratum disappears for.abouatone-third of a mile ; as the promontory rises , it is resumed againin , great beauty .
: at : Pleskin , and is interrupted:no more ; :we:-s .
; arcely ever lose sight:of it until we reach Port : Nffer( the next bay to the : Causeway ) ; .
here , for want:of::perpendicularity it is little.seen- , and is finally 1lostover the causewayr we kno:w nta well -how , .
Eighth .
, Stratum , ( .c ) The next:stratum is , of::the same-variety of : , hasalt Iith the third , that : is , irregular prismatic .
; . .
it is fifty-our f eet sthick and:in::the views:distinguished by the -:letter ( ) -:s wheire t emerges at the south east corner of Portmoo , it is quie accessible.by : l.and , and affords the best opportunity It know fio examining.this species of^blt , as , itis there very neat .
There is little more of this stratum seen in the:fahade of Poioon for r want of : perpendi cularity , but iit forms:the 1Wer frustum of thegreat .
conical island Beanyn Daan and::the whole of the:smaller , -except the base ; it is well displayed over the remainder of the precipice , -it forms the intermediate stratum between the magnificent colonnades at both^Bengo and Pleskin , ad finallyv is lost just over the Giants : Causeway Large globular fragments : have -fallen from it , and are scattered about the causeway .
, Ninth Stratum , b ) .
This stratum is forty-four feet thick , that being the exact length of the neat pillarscomposing it -at its -emrersion it forms ' the basesof the two conical islands in Portmoon , and is no more seen--in that bay , but immediately to the northward itbegins to : show : itself in colonnades and groups , some.of them resembling:castles and towers .
It ascends along the precipice obliquely , like those above it , forms : the lower range at Bengoreand " Pleskin , from which last it dips tolthe westward regularly , composesthe group at Port fer , cal ed the .
Organs , -seen from the causeway , and finally at its immersion , or intersection with the plane of the sea , it forms the beautiful assemblage of neat pillars , so long distinguished by the name of the Giant 's Causeway .
At these , to : intersections , each of them accessible by landi:f:adwiater , the prisms exactly resemble each other in grain ; isize and neatness ; the interval between them is full two miles , through great part of which this stratum is displayed at different heights ; Ait culminates between Pleskin and JBengo:re , -ith ?
its lower:edge more thane two hundred feet above the Water .
We:see n:w what a ; diminutive -portion of our vast basaltic ma-ss has , unil lately , monopolised the attention of the curious ; and even afterit was " discovered that we had many other , and much:r finer collections of pillars on the same promontory , inever occurred , to those who were preparing to give accounts:of : them tto the public , to examine whether these Were mere desultory groups , or detached parts of a grand and regular whole , which a more comprehensive view of the subject would soon have laid open to them , -99 Tenth : Stratum .
( a ) The stratum upon which the pillars of he preceding rest , is ocireous , red as minium , and about twenty feet thick ; it is scarcely seen at Portmoon , -a patch alone of its surface being distinguishable under water at low tide ; but immediately to the northward it shows itself , and from its bright colour makes a conspicuous figure across the face of the precipice in a course of more than a mile and half ; its last appearance to the westward is at Rovinvalley , the opposite point of the bay from the Giant 's Causeway , from which we have a good view of it .
The final dip and:immersion of this tenth stratum , " as well as its emersion , are lost for want of perpendicularity .
: The 'six remaining strata are all similar in material , but differing much from each other in thickness ; they are all of that description called tabular basalt , sometimes showing a faint disposition to assume a columnar formr at their edges , and always separated from each other by ochreous layers .
These six strata are not so perfectly distinct as-those above them , for sometimes we think we can count seven , and again not more than five ; nor does each of these preserve the same thickness through their whole extent , for they are deeper towards the 'northern point , where they culminate , forming by themselves a:perpendicular faCade near two hundred feet high , but they grow thinner as they recede from this centre .
The jets of black rock in the view ofPortmoon , are the emersions of these strata ; their last appearance ' on the : : West ' side is at Rovinvalley , where they strongly display the inclination of their strata , ( the same with all the rest ) to those approaching from the westward ; their final immersion is lost for want ' of ]p.rpendicularity .
I shall now proceed to select from the great mass of facts that are exhibited on the face of Bengore promontory , and occur in the contiguous basaltic country , such as seem applicable to geological questions , and likely to throw light on such subjects .
Facts applicable to geological Questions .
i. .
Every stratum preserves accurately , or very nearly , the same thickness through its whole extent , with very few exceptions .
2 .
The , upper and lower surface of each stratum preserve an exact parallelism , so long as they are covered by another stratun ; but when any stratum becomes the superficial one , its upper surface is scolloped , or sloped away irregularly , while the plane forming its base continues steady , and rectilineal ; but the parallelism , of its planes is resumed as soon as another stratum is placed over it .
3 .
The superficial lines bounding the summit of our faCades , and.our surface itself , are unconnected with , and unaffected by , the arrangement of the strata below them .
4 .
Nature , in the formation of her arrangements , has never acted upon an extensive scale in our basaltic area , ( at least on its northern side , where our continuous precipices enable us_ to determine the point with precision , ) but changes her materials , or her arrangement , or both , every two or three miles , and often at much smaller intervals .
5 .
Wherever there is a change of material , as from one stratum to another in a vertical line ; or where the change is in a horizontal direction by the introduction of a new system ; or where a whyn dyke cuts through an accumulation of strata ; in:all these cases t:-e change is always per alt and neveer er gradus , the lines of demarcationalways distinct , and well defined- ; yet the different .
, materials pass .
into each other without interrupting : the solidity and , continuity of the whole mass .
6 .
The faoades on our coast are formed as it were by ver- .
tical planes , cutting down , occasionally , the accumulations of our strata ; the upper part of these facades is generally perpendicular , the lower steep and precipitous .
7 .
The bases of our precipices commonly extend a , considerable way , into the sea ; between the water-and the:foot of : the precipice , ( .nd especially near the latter)trthere is frequently exhibited the wildest and most irregular scene of confusicn , by careless observers supposed to be formed by the ruins of the precipice above , which have fallen dox , n ; such , , no:doubt , was Mr. iWHI-TEHURsT 's idea , when he:describes one of these scenes as " an awful wreck of the terraqueous globe .
" But a more attentive observer will soon discover that these capricious irregularities , whether in the form of rude cones , as at Beanyn Daanta , and the west side of Pleskind ; or towers , as at the dyke of Port Cooan and Castro Levit , at the foot of Magilligan facade , even spires and obelisks , asto the westward of Kenbaan , and at the Bull of Rathlin ; yet all of these once formed part of the original mass of coast , stratified like it , and their strata still correspond in material and inclination with those in the contiguous precipice .
8 .
These vertical sections or abruptions of our strata are by no means confined to the steeps that line cur coast ; the remaining boundary of our basaltic area has several of them equallygrand ; and similar-abruiptions , or sections ( though not so deep ) are scattered over a great part of our area , and especially on the ridges of our hills and mountains which are cut down in , many places like a stair , by the sudden abrup from of the basaltic stratum .
9 .
Wherever the strata are thus suddenly cut off , whether it be a mass of oaccumulated strata as in the facades on our coast , or solitary strata in the interior ; the materials on one side of the abruption -are completely carried away , without a fragment beg eftbe hinnd , while on its other side the untouched stratum remains in tire and undisturbed .
I shall -not proceed to apply these facts to support , or invalidate , any of the numerous theories which have given rise to so much controversy , in which I myself ( as you know ) have borne some part ; I shall lookl to nature alone , without much reference to opinions , and shall endeavour to trace , by the ima:ks she has left behind her , some of the grand operations she once executed on the surface of our globe .
VARRO divided the time elapsed since the beginning of the:world-into three portions , which he distinguisheld by the names , prolepticurm , fabulosum , and historicumn .
The first comprehended the period of absolute darkness ; in the second some faint lights were thrown upon the history of its events , by fable and tradition ; in the third , the historian had the cormon aids from which history is usually comrpiled .
Thenatural-history of the world seems to admit of a corresponding division .
In the first I include the formation of our strata , their induration , their derangement from the horizontal position in which they seem originally to have been placed ' Did 23 o$ and the operation of cutting them down by so many whyndykes .
in ' thie second:diisidon 'orrespondingt VARRo'sf4bulosum , Icomprehend the operations performed : upn our giobe , posterior to its final consolidation , and antecedent to all history or tradition ; operations therefore that can be established by the visible effects alone which still exist , written in strong characters .
The third division contains the period since we acquired some knowledge of natural history , became acquainted with causes and effects , and able to trace the connection j-between them .
With the operations performed in the first division ( corresponding with VARRO 's prolepticitm ) modern theorists assume that they are well acquainted , able to account for every appearance , and to detail the whole process of original formatin .
I however shall decline noticing these early processes of ; nature , and limit myself to the second division of natural history , hoping from the prominent features of my country that remain still undefaced , and from its curious facts , to trace and demonstrate the great effects that have been produced upon our surface ; and though I do not presume to advance -farther , I perhaps may assist in clearing the way for future naturalists , and by establishing effects , encourage them ito proceed to causes , and help them to discover the , powers and agents by which these grand operations have beenexecuted .
Inquiry into the Formation of our perpendicular Fafades .
It is natural that the-first greatj operation iwe proceed to investigate , should be the formation of our magnificent facades , one of which is the principal subject of this memoir .
The line of coast that bounds our basaltic area on its north Iside , extends about twenty-five Irish miles , in which course the precipices are nearly continuous , and more than one half of:t hem absoiutely perpendicular for a great part of their stupendous height .
The operation by which they were cut off so aibrptly , and left with a formidable aspect towering over our coast , is the one we inquire into .
That these bold precipices once projected frther in any places is easily demonstrated ; at Beanyn Daana , and at the Chimney , the columnar construction was obviously once carried muh farther out .
: At the- : Mlestone , Portcooa and Portnabaulthehe fragments of dyke ; s extend far beyond the face of the precipice .
These same facts , together with the projecting base , show that these sudden abruptions were not formed by the subsiding , and ssinking of one part , leaving the remainder in its place : .
still less byany violent revolution , or convulsion ; as the stratification has not sustained the slightest shock either above , or below the faCade .
The : formation of our abrupt coast , has been ascribed to the:action-i of the sea beating violently against it , washing away the lower parts , and leaving a perpendicular fagade standing ; as we often see on the banks of rapid and encroaching rivers .
A cool examination of our precipices will soon prove that 2-01 ; our.faades .
could not have been so formed , for iwe always find them on the highest part of the cliff , and receding from the water , which could be instrumental in bringing : down the materials from above , only by washing , and so wearing away the bases of the steepest parts ; but the elevations of these bases are utterly irreconcilable to this supposition ; for instance , the base of Pleskin facade is two hundred feet above the present level of the sea , that of Fairhead three hundred ; now had the sea ever risen to either height , it would have .
submerged a great part of Ireland , and none of the neighbouring country ( whatever its level may be ) bears the least resemblance to alluvial ground , nor shows --anymark of having been once covered by the sea .
- .
The next argument is still more conclusive ; the boundary of our basaltic area on its north side , is for twenty-five miles also the confine of sea and land ; so far it is natural to ascribe its features .
and characteristic marks , to the action of the powerful element that beats against it .
But when that precipitous boundary ceases to be the confine of sea and land , turns southward towards the interior , and becomes the ; line of demarcation between the basaltic and schistose country on the west , it still preserves its former character ; that is , of a range or ridge of very high land , steep to the exterior , and sometimes cut down vertically into facades , like its northern part that lines the shore .
Thus Magilligan Rock , ( four miles inland ) is not inferior in magnificence to any.of our facades on the coast , its perpendicular section is one hundred and seventy feet , ; and thils continuous for a mile ; the facades at Bienbraddock are nine miles farther inland , and those of Monyneeny thirteen ; while the : base of the -lowest of these perpendicular precipices is elevated 140oo feet above the sea.:The same : style prevails : on the -east side of our basaltic area , ' after its , boundary ceases to bA e the confine of sea and land , ; for the limestone nfagades at Ga/ ron Point , ( considerably above the level of the sea ) exactly resemble those of Dunluceanlmd Kenbaan at the water -edge ; and Cave Hill ( several miles ' from the sea , and nearly one from the shallow estuary of Be/ fast , ) exhibits basaltic facades at the-height of one thou- ' sand feet , precisely similar , and little inferior to those of The exact resemblance between our inland facades ( on the east and west sides of our area ) to those on the shore , proves themt be all effects from the same cause , and that our accumulated:strata have in all thesesimilar instances been cut dIownvertically by the same agent , and that this agent was no.t tihel sea .
Nor .
has:this powerful agent confined its operations to our coast , or to the periphery of our basaltic area ; we can trace it over its whole surface ; we find throughout its interior , similar ; thoughvery di:ninutive abruptions , executed &amp; precisely in the:same 'manner , that is , strata'cut across by a long vertical facade , their planes on the upper side perfectly undisturbed , while on the lower side all the materials of which that part of the stratum was once composed are completely carried of- : ( Secth fact .
) We are , now unavoidably led into a discussion of a question which has at all times occupied the attention of naturalists .
7'IWhence arise thew , Inc quaeitles.^ w-i.hz whh theh S fa eof the EaJLth soQ e , ceedin &amp; y diversified ?
I shall not attempt to encounter this question -generally , nor , to extend:my enquiries beyond the limits I have prescribed to myself ; but I shall try whether the curious facts so~:profusely : exhibited over our basaltic area , throw any light upon the formation of our own inequalities , or lead us a step towards the discovery of the operations by which such stupendous effects have been produced .
Some : to escape the difficulties in which this .
question is inyvoved , ascribe our inequalities to originalt formation ; as if the world had come from the hand of the Creator with the variegated surface which now contributes so much to its beauty ; but the frequent interruptions , and resumptions of the srata in our area , with the perfect resemblance of the corresponding partst , however great the interval by which they are separated , can scarcely leave a doubt that these strata were at first continuous ; of course , the figure of our surface at that time must have depended on the original : positionsand incli:nations &amp; of these strata , which , as appears by the gd fact , are niowiunconnected with the superficial line , the figure of which is governed lby their abruptions and removals alone .
Naturalists have differed much in opinion as to the direction in which the causes acted that produced the inequalities on the surface of our globe ; some referring us to the bowels of the earth as to the scene of action ; while others assert that the operations were performed upon the surface itself .
But the slightest inspection of our facades will at once prove that the first hypothesis cannot be correct ; for obliquity of direction must have been the result of a disturbing cause acting from below ; wwiereas I parllelism : iand a steady rectilineal course distinguish the:basaltic arrangements of which I , haveb been treating .
We haave , it is true , occasional depressions of our strata , where they obviously have subsided , and no doubt .
from:a failure of support below ; , but in no instance that I have -et with in our area , are these- : attended by the slightest conrcus sion ; the permanent and subsided parts , with us still preserVe their parallelism , and the continuity of their material ; ` whence it is probable this event took ' place previous to the induration of the strata , and of course antecedent to the period to which Il imitm yss elf , .
BUFFON.ascribes our superficial inequalities to the agitation ofi the waters while they covered our:earth , and argues from the resemblance these inequalities .
bear to the waves of the wsa 't:aitreSrmblane I cannot trace in any:country which have observe ed nor could our sudden and perpendicular abruptions , ever : have been -produced by a agitation of the waters .
Professor PLAYFAIRn considers rivers as having formed not onltthe : Ibeds , ocrlchannels in which they w but sohe when of the Vallies -through which:they:run ; , and in general all the inequalities of : our surface ; but an attentive observer , tracing the course of any of our most rapid rivers , would soon pertceive that the quantity of its depredations have : been ' comparatively insignificant , and that they can be determined with precisiow ; the river has no doubti several places extended itself considerably on both sides , but in intermediate spac between the .
remotest eboundaries : it ever reached , it levels , instead oftaisig in iqualities .
MD)CCCVIIr .
Ee $:99 _The::same result I apprehend would follow from the operations of another agent , which theorists are in the habitof calling in to their aid , when they cannot find some certain material , which from their theory we had reason to expect ; they then tell us it has been carried off , and lost in the suite of degradations and decompositions .
But decay and decomposition , instead of creating inequalities would produce a contrary effect , and deface those actually existing ; they would gradually abate the height of our perpendicular facades , and increase the green steep at their bases by the accumulation of the crumbling and mouldering materials from above ; while the more diminutive faCades formed by the abruptions of single strata scattered over the face of our area , and forming its most characteristic feature , would in time ( as many are already ) be converted into steep acclivities covered with verdure .
Such are the principal causes to which the inequalities of our surface have been generally ascribed .
Previous to our deciding finally upon their insufficiency , it may be proper to enumerate a few of those inequalities , where the deviation of our present surface , from the form it probably had originally , is not only striking , but where also the concomitant circumstances aflbrd demonstration , that some great operation has once taken place there .
Thus , by making ourselves acquainted with effects , we shall be better qualified to investigate causes ; and if those effects shall appear to be beyond the powers of such natural agents as we are already acquainted with , we shall be justified in admitting the performance of operations to which we have seen nothing similar ; and also in admitting the former existence of powers of far superior energ to any we have ever known in action .
Enumeration of some remarkable Inequalities in the Surface f our basaltic.rea , produced since the Consolidation of its Strata .
That we may better understand the facts I am proceeding to state , I shall assume ( in the style of the mathematicians putafactum ) previous to demonstration , that the planes of our uniform , rectilineal strata , however interrupted we may now find them , were once continuous .
Upon this supposition , the valley of the Mayota , between the stratified summits of Seafin and Slievegallon , is an excavation 1700 feet deep , and three miles wide , of which the whole materials have been completely carried off .
To the northward of this excavation , between Seafn and Carnt'ogher , the continuous accumulated strata of basalt are interrupted , and taken away quite down to the schistose substratum ; while the untouched summits of the contiguous mountains , Carntogher , Seafin , and Monyneeny , are still stratified basalt .
On the eastern side of our area , immediately to the southward of Kello and Connor , a similar operation has been performed , attended by still more extraordinary circumstances .
We here find a district near four miles in diameter , called the Sandy Braes ; over this whole space the basaltic stratification has been carried off , and the operation has reached deep into a very singular substratum ; a reddish breccia , by some mineralogists called a porphyry , the mass friable , but the component angular particles of extreme hardness .
The hills , of which this little district is full , are every one perfect .
segments of spheres , while the loftier basaltic hills that surround it preserve their characteristic form , to wit , a gradual acclivity on one side , with a steep abruption on the other .
As we sail along our northern shore we discover another great chasm or interruption of our strata , which also cuts deep into the substrata : for on the west side of Ballycastle pier , the bold basaltic precipices suddenly disappear , and at a lower level disclose the substratum , which appears to be an alternation of sand-stone , and coal , sometimes with bituminous schistus .
A mile or two to the eastward the abrupt precipice is resumed , and a basaltic stratum again occupies its summit on to Fairhead , with the same angle of inclination in which it was disposed along our whole coast , that is , a slight ascent to the north .
Traces of similar operations and abruptions are to be found over our whole area , but the preceding are sufficient to make us acquainted with the style of these interruptions of cur strata ; of course it is time to proceed to the suspended demonstration , that our strata , so interrupted , were once continuous , notwithstanding the magnitude of the interval by which the corresponding parts are now separated .
Proofs that our now interrupted Strata were once continuous .
We mustnow turn back to the faSades of Bengore , where the strata themselves , and all the circumstances attending them , are so happily displayed , as to throw great light on the subject , and to lead us analogically , step by step , to the con clusion we seek for .
Let us examine and trace the summit of the precipice for a mile immediately eastward from the Giant 's Causeway , and we shall find a frequent interruption and resumption of the fourth , fifth , and sixth strata , at the shortest intervals , the interruption not always reaching to the lowest of the three , which in that case remains continuous : so far simple inspection removes all doubt , that each of these strata was once continuous as far as the great depression to the west of Pleskin .
Here indeed the interruption becomes considerable , not less than a mile ; but when we find at Portmoon a succession of three strata with the same inclination , in the same order , of the same thickness each , and with the same strong characteristic marks that distinguished the three interrupted , at the depression ; above all , when we find the strata they rest uponcontinuous ( at least with very trifling interruptions ) for the same extent ; I think we can scarcely entertain a doubt that this interval between the corresponding parts , though so much greater than any of the preceding , is , like them , but an interruption , and that these strata were once continuous froma the depression to Portmoon .
The same style of induction would establish the qLondam continuity of all the strata in the face of Bengore promontory , for here the strata are so distinctly marked that we know each of them when we find it again after any interruption .
In the rest of our precipices and fa9 ; ades ; the similarity of the strata deprives us of this advantage ; yet in their smaller interruptions , the eye , by tracing the rectilineal course of the strata , and so connecting the separated parts , can establish their former continuity : while in the greater intervals we must rest our proof on analogy alone .
That we may be entitled to carry this style of induction into the interior of our basaltic area , and to apply the same reasoning to enable us to form a similar decision upon the more stupendous interruptions of our strata , which I have already enumerated , it becomes necessary to explain the geological construction of our area , the strata of which it is formed their arrangement--and their inclinations .
An extensive limestone stratum , white as chalk , and about two hundred feet thick , seems to form the base of the whole district I limit myself to : upon this , accumulations of rectilineal and parallel basaltic strata , are heaped up to most unequal heights .
This great calcareous stratum seems not to be an accurate plane , but rather to resemble a bason , as every where at its periphery it dips to the interior ; yet the plane of its section has a slight ascent to the southward : a recollection of these circumstances will enable us to account for every appearance this stratum exhibits , as it happens to be disclosed to us ; and by the converse , an attention to these appearances will enable us accurately to determine the position of the stratum .
This stratum , from Ballycastle to Solomon 's Porch , ( about twenty-five miles , ) keeps very nearly the level of the sea , often indeed sinking below the surface , but never raising its lower edge above it ; but when at Solomon 's Porch , the boundary of our basaltic area begins to deflect to the south-west , and then to the south , the ascent of the stratum to the southward begins to operate , and we perceive the dotted line of its quarries gradually to rise along the face of the mountain from the shore to Monyneeny and Seafin , where it has attained the height of 1500 feet : it is true , the actual stratum has not been opened at these two great elevations , but the white rubble immediately below the basaltic facade proves incontestably that it is close at hand .
An.accumulation of basaltic strata , had in this southern course , as well as on the northern shore , covered the limestone up to the summits of the hills or mountains .
I have already stated how the ridge of mountain is suddenly interrupted by the valley of the Mayola , from 1600 to 1700 feet deep , but if we look to the southward , in the rectilineal course of the strata ( the positions of which we have been able to ascertain with so much accuracy ) , we shall find near the summit of the mountain Slievegallon a similar white limestone stratum crowned with basalt , cutting it in the very direction the former ought to have reached it , that is perhaps two hundred feet higher , the ascent of the strata to the southward having elevated their planes so much in a distance of four miles , :the probable interval between the summits of these mountains .
We are now to decide whether this calcareous and basaltic fragment , on the summit of Slievegallon mountain , be the last remnant of the old arrangement v-e have been tracing , and ascertaining xwith so much precision , for seventeen or 281 eighteen miles from the sea , and twenty-five miles along the oast , but now interrupted by the valley of the Mayola , like our former more diminutive interruptions , and also like them resumed at the next elevation , in the same rectilineal course , the strata preserving the same order , and the same characteristic marks .
Or whether these strata , appearing on the sulilmit of Slievegallon , be the commencement of a new arranigement , abandoned by nature as soon as begun : Which is highly improbable , for neither limestone nor basalt are to be fbund -ont the mountain except in this solitary hummock .
We might , by a minute attention to the inclinations , and arrangements , of the strata contiguous to the other interruptions I have enumerated , prove in like manner that the basaltic masses crowning the summits of the surrounding hills and mountains , are merely the remnants of strata once extensive and continuous , but interrupted and carried off , as in the preceding case , by the same powerful agent .
The more diminutive inequalities scattered over the whole surface of our area , and always produced by interruptions of the strata , would still more easily admit the appplication of the same reasoning , from the contiguity of their abrupted parts ; but the detail would be tedious ; those who wish to pursue the subject farther must come to the scene themselves .
Materials completely carried off .
A circumstance perhaps still more extraordinary , is the complete removal of all the materials that once filled up the intervals between the abrupted parts of these strata ; I have stated in my gth fact , that the materials that had formerly composed the projecting parts of our northern facades , and precipices , had totally disappeared .
The removed parts of the limestone stratum on the west side of our area have shared the same fate , for where the chain of mountains extending from Magilligan Rock to Bienbraddock , is interrupted by vallies at Stradreagh , Drumrommer , and Ballyness , it is obvious that the limestone stratum was once continuous to the high points where it shows itself on Keady , and the mountains on each side ; its thickness too , wherever we can try it , is very great ; yet this stratum , which in its entire state must have spread like a roof far above the present surface of these valleys ( which are now sunk deep into the schistose substratum ) has not left a particle of its debris behind , nor is a single lump of white limestone to be found , until we come to the quarries , that is , to the edge of the solid , untouched stratum , .
Conclusions .
The conclusions that unavoidably follow , from the consideration of these facts are , That the hills and mountains , in the district I have been describing , were not raised up or formed as they now stand , but that they are the undisturbed remains of strata that were left behind , when stupendous operations carried away the parts that were once contiguous to them .
That the inequalities of this surface were all produced by causes acting from above , and carrying off whatever they touched , without in the least disturbing what was left behind .
Additional Evidences .
Basaltic Hunmmocks.* The arguments on which I have founded my opinions have hitherto been all taken from the hollows in our surface , and the interruptions in our strata , both which , the concomitant circumstances have led me to consider as so many excavations ; but the lofty elevations , and the abrupt proininencies rising suddenly from our surface , when minutely examined , lead us irresistibly to the very same conclusion .
When you and I examined together the line of our northern facades , we studiously sought for the points where nature had made any change in her materials or their arrangement , hoping that at the junctions of these little systems , we should find some facts that would throw light on the subject ; but we generally failed ; want of perpendicularity , or other local circumstances , impeding us at the most interesting points .
On the present occasion she has adopted an opposite line of conduct , and in many of the steps she has taken , obtrudes upon us demonstration of what she has done .
Whoever has attended to the exertions of man , when employed in altering our present surface , either by levelling heights , or by making excavations , must have observed that it is the practice of the workmen to leave small , cylindrical portions standing , for the purpose of determining the height of the old surface , and thereby ascertaining the quantity of materials removed .
To these may be compared the stratified basaltic hummocks so profusely scattered over our area , and which seem to show how high our quondam surface once reached .
The hummock of Dunmull , three miles south-east from Portrush , is very beautiful , it stands on the top of a high ridge , and is a conspicuous object from all parts of the country ; it is exactly circular , its flat surface contains an acre , it is completely surrounded by a perpendicular fa9ade about twenty-five feet high , and formed by two strata , a columnar , and an irregular prismatic , resting upon it .
From this elevated station , where I had the pleasure of accompanying you , I showed you at six or seven miles distance to the westward , among the Derry mountains , the still loftier hummocks of Altabrian and Sconce , hemispherical in form , composed of but one stratum each , while their swellingout bases displayed accumulations of many more : and also near those the hummock of Fermayle , resembling Dunmull , but much larger , and also , surrounded by a facade composed of two strata .
I showed you also at twenty miles distance to the south-east , the gigantic Slemish , one of our basaltic hummocks , magnified ( as it were ) into a lofty and insulated mountain , completely stratified from its base to its flat summit .
I showed you likewise from the bottom of its ridge , the neat but diminutive hummock , called the Rock of Clogher , above Bushmills .
As our time was precious , you took my word for its stratification being precisely similar to that of Dunmull .
There are many other basaltic hummocks scattered over the surface of our area , all of them either stratified or portions of strata ; two of the most remarkable are the hill of Knock Loughran , near I3aghera , and a tall hummock ( whose name I forget ) a mile eastward from Lisanoure .
We meet still .
m re.frequently an impefect , style of humnmock , , a semi-circular ?
facade on one side , while on the other it slopes away gradually with the:e dip of the strata , as ifithi operation had been interrupted before it was carried quite round ; the most remarkable of these are Ballystrone , in Derry and Croaghmore , in Antrim , both visible fromDunmull .
Regular stratifications on the summits of hills and montains , have been long a stumbling block to theorists ; the historian of the French Academy , for the year 1716 , obviously ascribing the superficial inequalities of the earth , ( like many others ) to causes acting from below , and perceiving how incompatible such assemblages of strata were to his theory , thinks it safer to doubt their existence , as they could not have been formed , he says " unless the masses of the mountains. .
were elevated in the direction of an axis perpendicular to the " horizon : ce que n'a pu etre que tres rare .
" But as these stratified mounts are in our area by no means uncommon , they lay us under the necessity of suggesting another alternative similar to those we have already stated .
Were these isolated hummocks originally formed as they now stand , ( solitary and separate from each other ) one by one ; or , are they the last remaining porticns of a vast consolidated mass , of which the intermediate and connecting strata have been carried off by causes with which we are unacquainted ?
To be able satisfactorily to resolve this alternative , it becomes necessary to take a careful view of the coritiguous countries , and to try whether their construction , and the arrangement of their strata , will throw any light upon the subject .
When we examine the assemblage of hummocks above Knockmult , that is , Sconce , Fermoyle , and ; Altabrian we find their materials and stratification , precisely similar to that of the country belovw them to the S eastward , where the abruptions of the strata are displayed in long stony ridges ; to the south , the abruptions on the summit of Keady mountain discover:the same similarity ; and to the north-west the grand facade of Magilligan Rock , three miles distant , displays an accumulation of exactly the same sort of strata consolidated into an enormous mass .
The hummock of Dunmull is formed of two very particular strata , , a:columnar , and an irregular prismatic ; but I showed you , a mile to the northward , at the faCades and quarries of Islamore and Craigahuller , at the base of the hill , that the whole ridge , on the summit of which Dunmull is placed , was a consolidated mass , formed by alternate strata of the same description : and that the arrangement of the whole country below , and adjacent , was precisely the same with that of the hummock of Clogher , I proved to you at the curious opening of the strata at Bushmills Bridge , and in the faCades at the Giant 's Causezvay .
After these proofs that so many ( and I might proceed to the rest ) of our detached hummocks , are in their construction and materials , similar to , and connected with , the main consolidated masses of which our country is formed , I think it will scarcely be asserted that these hummocks were originally formed , solitary and separate as they now stand ; but rather that they were once parts of that vast whole , and left behind in their present form , upon the removal of the contiguous portions of their strata , by some powerful agent , of whose operations and modes of acting , we have hitherto obtained little knowledge .
The highest point on the facade of Cave Hill is called M'Art 's Castle , and appears to be a solitary fragment of a stratum , precisely similar to those below it , and obviously once extended like them .
The irregularity of the summit of Fairhead , plainly shows that its gigantic columns once reached higher .
And in the fatade of Magilligan , the highest of all , a few desultory patches of an upper stratum ( no doubt once perfect and continuous ) are to be traced along its summit .
Our mountains themselves seem to show clearly that they were once higher ; the top of M ; agilligan mountain is an extensive plain , over which a wandering stratum is interrupted and resumed at intervals for a great way .
At the highest part of Donald 's Hill , over the valley of Glenuller , we find a hummock ; also at the termination of the ridge , at its highest part over the valley of Mayola , similar hummocks .
I have the honour to be , SIR , Your obedient , humble Servant , W. RICHARDSON .
Clonfecle , 'yam .
, 18o8 .

