164 Prof. J. Dewar .
fFeb .
12 , February 12 , 1880 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Studies on the Chinoline Series .
" By James Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received February 10 , 1880 .
In the first part of this paper which appeared in the " Proceedings " of the Society for 1877 , it was shown that the leucoline series of bases occurring in coal tar were really aromatic derivatives , as on oxidation an acid could be obtained which readily decomposed on distilling with an alkali , giving aniline .
The acid , which was named leucolinic acid , had the composition C9H9N03 , and may be regarded as a higher homologue of isatic acid , C8H7N03 , which is one of the characteristic indigo derivatives .
The conclusions of this paper have been confirmed by the synthesis of chinoline by Baeyer from the hydro-carbostyril , and by Koenigs from allylaniline , the latter reaction being similar in principle to the Synthesis of pyrrol , described in my former paper , by passing ammonia and a mixture of monobromethylene and acetylene through a red hot tube .
Experiments on the oxidation of leucoline and the alkaloidal bases have been repeated by Hoogewerff , Van Dorp , and Koenigs .
These experimenters have found that instead of leucolinic acid being produced , they obtain a variety of pyridene dicarbonic acid , a substance which I had on a former occasion separated from the oxidation products of picoline .
The explanation of the difference of the results is to be found in the fact , that my object was to obtain the first products of oxidation and thus to avoid breaking up the body into simpler constituents .
Both the tar and cinchona bases may be regarded as having a double nucleus of a benzol and pyridene residue , and the latter , being the more stable of the two , derivatives of it are obtained when the oxidation is more complete .
b-880 .
] Studies on the ChinSeries .
The interest of the subject has been greatly enhanced by the results 0f Weidel , Schmidt , Ramsay , and Dobbie on the dlrect oxidation of these chemists agree that the chief oxidation product lias the composition and properties of either a pyridene di- or tr , -carbonic * 1 " My attention being directed to other scientific subjects , I have thought the results of experiments , which I had intended extending , had better he published , as research in this department of organic chemistry is being vigorously prosecuted , which will m all probabi 1 y at no distant date result in the synthesis of some important alkaloids .
Oxidation of Cinchona Chinoline .
Chinoline obtained from cinchonine , which had been carefully purified as described in my former paper , was treated with permanganate in the same way as leucoline , in order to see if any acid sum are to the leucolinic acid could be obtained .
In each operation , about 13 grms. of chinoline was dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid , and a hot solution of 30 grms. of permanganate of potash added .
As t e chinoline is more readily attacked than the corresponding tar base , to prevent loss the oxidation must be carried out in large basins , as the mass is apt to froth over from the evolution of carbonic acid .
After filtration from the oxide of manganese , the alkaline solution was evaporated to dryness , and extracted with alcohol to separate the sulphate , carbonate , and oxalate of potash . .
The soluble potash salt was dissolved in water , excess of sulphuric acid added , and the organic acid extracted by shaking with ether .
I e yield of acid was small , and as no modification of the process seemed to increase the amount , the substance obtained was chiefly use o determine its composition and general reactions .
Chinolinic Acid .
The acid crystallised in nodular masses very soluble m water It melts at 143 ' , or 20 ' lower than the isomeric leucolmic acid .
I He silver salt is very insoluble , separating from cold solutions as aflocculent precipitate , which on standing becomes Crystalline .
on i 1\#163 ; *re crystallised from a large volume of boiling water , it is obtained in tufts of fine needles .
The crystals were always mixed with a slight , reddish-brown substance , which appeared to be oxide of silver .
The acid gave no violet colour with ferric chloride , but the ammonia salt gave a violet precipitate , which rapidly became o reddish-brown colour . . .
Analysis of the acid obtained from cinchona chinoline and the silver salt yielded the following results :\#151 ; 1^6 Prof. J. Dewar .
[ Feb. jj| Weight of acid taken ... .
Carbonic acid produced . .
Water I. II .
0*209 0-473 A .AAA ... .
U 099 Calculated in percentages\#151 ; Carbon I. II . . .
60*5 c9h9no3 .
60 *33 Hydrogen . .
5-16 ... .
5 *02 Silver salt\#151 ; Weight of salt I. 0*2295 .
n. ... 0*3235 Carbonic acid produced ... .
0 *292 .
... 0*454 Water 0 *054 .
... 0*078 Silver 0 *100 .
... .
0 *1375 Calculated in percentages , the results areCarbon I. II .
C9H8AgN03 .
34*89 37*76 Hydrogen .
2 *68 2 *79 Silver .
43 *56 . . . .
42*5 37*76 A quantity of the silver salt which had been treated with dilute nitric acid , weighing 0*186 , gave 0*081 of silver , or equivalent to 43*5 per cent. A sample recrystallised , weighing 0*1492 , gave 0*0655 of silver , or 43*9 per cent. The second fraction , obtained by partial precipitation from the ammonia salt amounting to 0*3033 , gave 0*1343 of silver , or 44*2 per cent. The mean of the five analyses giving 43*5 per cent , of silver .
Nitrogen determination The nitrogen was found on combustion to bear to the carbonic acid the relative volume ratio of 1 to 18*3 .
The above analyses of the silver salt prove that it always contains excess of silver , either from a higher substitution product , or from combined oxide .
The composition might be represented by eight equivalents of the normal silver salt combining with one of oxide of silver . !
Although the want of material prevented the examination of a greater j number of salts , there can be little doubt that the composition of the acid is C9H9N03 .
The acid fused with caustic potash gives aniline , and the silver salt when heated gave a crystalline sublimate with drops of aniline .
The acid dissolves in hot glycerine with a fine violet fluorescence , and begins to decompose , giving olf carbonic acid at 180 ' , together with oily drops of aniline .
j j $\#163 ; ( ) .
] Studies on the Chinoline Series .
167 Leucolinic acid does not decompose in glycerine before a temperature of 205 ' is reached ; the general decompositions of this acid are clearly jidentical with that of the isomeric acid obtained from the tar base , and prove conclusively that both bases are intimately related to the aromatic series .
Nature of Tar Leucoline .
According to the researches of Greville Williams the leucoline of tar is distinguished from the corresponding cinchona base by its giving an oily chromate , which in his hands never crystallised .
The leucoline used in my experiments can be shown to be a mixture of at least two isomeric bases , one of which yields a crystalline chro-mate , which is not however identical with the chromate of the alkaloid I base .
The portion boiling between 210 ' and 220 ' gave the largest yield of the crystalline chromate .
In no case did the mixture of the base with excess of chromic acid .
| give any crystals until it had stood for several days .
After separating the crystals the free base was obtained by distilla-i tion with caustic potash , and gave immediately a well crystallised salt ; on the addition of a little chromic acid .
The base separated from the uncrystallisable chromate seemed to boil on the whole at a lower temperature .
Analysis of the crystalline chromate obtained from tar leucoline :\#151 ; I. II .
Weight of chromate taken ... .
0*3285 .
... .
0*3425 Carbonic acid produced .
0*5485 .
... .
0*573 Water obtained . .
0*1030 .
, ... 0*112 Calculated in percentages\#151 ; I. II .
Theory .
Carbon 45*5 . .
54*6 .
... 45*34 Hydrogen 3*48 . .
3*62 .
3*35 Chromic oxide . .
\#151 ; . .
\#151 ; .
, ... 31*99 0*223 of the chromate gave 0*0715 chromic oxide , or 32*07 per cent. ; and 0*7915 of chromate from another sample gave on ignition 0*260 chromic oxide , or 32*8 per cent. These analyses leave no doubt as to the substance being a pure variety of leucoline .
That there are at least two distinct bases in tar may be proved in other ways .
If leucoline is digested in the water-bath for several days with a large excess of chloride of ethyl , only one of the bases seems to com-vol .
xxx .
n 168 Prof ! .
J. Dewar .
[ Feb. 12 j bine with it , forming a reddish-violet solid .
If the excess of chloride of ethyl containing the uncombined leucoline is distilled in a current of steam , this portion of the base now yields a crystalline chromate .
Similarly , the original len coline heated in sealed tubes to a temperature of 170 ' C. with chromic acid in the proportion of 10 grms. to 5 cub. centims. of the base , gave , after separating the oxide of chromium , on distilling caustic potash , the base yielding the crystalline chromate .
The alkaline fluid on evaporation to dryness , and heating with soda ime , gave a little pyrrol , but no aniline .
The alkaline solution distilled with excess of sulphuric acid gave volatile organic acids .
The ordinary leucoline treated directly with iodide of ethyl gave a red viscid mass , containing yellow crystals , which may be separated by successive washings with alcohol .
When this iodide of ethyl leucoline was distilled , the free base yielded the crystalline chromate ; whereas the leucoline separated from the oily chromate , when heated with iodide of ethyl , gave an intense red-coloured fluid , in which a few crystals appeared after standing for a week or two .
It thus appears by the three methods detailed above , that ordinary leucoline is a mixture of two isomeric bases ; and that samples of the tar product may differ considerably in properties .
We can thus easily explain how Hofmann obtained on one occasion a crystalline chromate from the tar bases , which led him to infer that the substance was identical in properties with that derived from the decomposition of the cinchona alkaloids ; whereas Greville Williams , working upon a different specimen , could obtain nothing but an oily uncrystallisable salt .
In reality both experimenters described the properties of different specimens of the bases .
Oxidation of Leucoline .
Many attempts to increase the yield of leucolinic acid , by varying the proportions and temperature of the reacting bodies , ' led to the following results .
The greatest amount of acid is obtained when one part of the base , dissolved in the form of neutral sulphate , is treated with 2-g- times its weight of permanganate of potash dissolved in boiling water , the oxidising agent being carefully added to the salt of leucoline .
If the action is allowed to proceed in the cold with about four parts of the permanganate to one of base , there is no leucolinic acid formed , all the higher boiling point bases , belonging either to the tar or cinchona series of bases , yielded acid derivatives on oxidation , which , on distillation with soda-lime , gave aniline when the above plan was adopted ; if this was not done , the chief product was a member of the pyridine series .
This explains why von Dorp , Koenigs , and others have found only pyridine dicarbonic acid without any trace of leucolinic acid .
Studies on the Chinoline Series .
1880 .
] The crude acid separated from the potash , salt or the insoluble lead salt always contains a considerable quantity of a syrupy acid , which does not crystallise unless it is boiled with water for some days .
It is possible this substance may be the acid derived from one of the \#166 ; isomeric bases , and that it is slowly changed into the crystalline | modification .
The crystalline leucolinic acid treated with glycerine | giyes a substance having the characteristic reactions of indol , but the 'amount obtained is always small ; many attempts made to increase the yield of this body have not been successful .
If fused chloride of zinc be employed instead of glycerine , the distillate is hydrochlorate of aniline , without any of the indol substance .
Similarly , a solution of the potash salt of the acid , heated to 200 ' 0 .
, gave only aniline , \#166 ; carbonic and acetic acids .
On heating the acid with zinc-dust , chinoline was not reproduced , as the product was a crystalline substance which has not been examined .
The decompositions of leucolinic and chinolinic acids point to their being amido-phenylpyruvic acids , and their general relations to nearly allied substances are shown in the following formulae:\#151 ; c6h5 C6H4NH2 c6h4hh C6H4H c6h4hh2 CH CH CH CH ch2 CH CH CH .
CH CO co3h co2h CO CH co2h Cinnamic Amido- Carbostyril .
Chinoline , Leueolinic and Acid .
cinnamic .
Chinolinic Acids- An acid of this character ought to be hydrogenised readily , producing the amido-phenylactic acid which has the same composition and a close relationship to the substance tyrosine , differing only in the amido-group being in this case attached to the phenyl residue instead of to the pyruvic ; such isomeric tyrosines are produced by treating leucolinic and ehinolinic acids with sodium amalgam .
Both products react with the mixed mercurous and mercuric nitrates , giving a red colour , somewhat resembling the well-known tyrosine reaction , the difference between them and ordinary tyrosine being that , on fusion with an alkali , both yield aniline , whereas ammonia and paroxy-benzoic acid are the products obtained from the normal substance .

