]\gt ; January 25 , 1883 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Paper was read : I. " " On tain Definite Integrals No. 11 .
By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received January 16 , 1883 .
The method by which integral was obtained may be thus extended .
Suppose it was required to obtain .
Put then , and if be any root of the equation , and . . . . . .
, are the values of when , then we find by differentiating that when Henoe ( 234 ) .
The theorem applies with great facility when .
I of course .
1883.certain Definite Integrals .
471 suppose that ) can be expanded in terms of by a converging in other cases .
The series would , I believe , be ubject requires further considerationconver.where ompared wibh : If we put Hence we immediately deduce from the equation the theorem Since and , therefore , as before , .
( 236 ) with precisely similar formulae for and other like integrals .
We also have It is easily seen that these investigations extend multi(238 ) .
On certain Definite Integrals .
[ Jan. tude of what are usually called binomial integrals .
Ib will be seen .
that these formulae include a vast number of such as ( 239 ) .
( 240 ) .
( 241 ) .
( 242 ) .
If we have an integral of the form where and are functions of , we have by applying the symbol to the integral . . . . .
243 .
As an example of this , from whence . . .
( 245 ) .
In the same way we may deduce general formulae from ( 86 ) , ( 87 ) , ( 116 ) , ( 118 ) , ( 122 ) , ( 129 ) , ( 130 ) , of the present series .
The following integrals were obtained by the use of reciprocal functions : \mdash ; .
( 247 ) ( 248 ) where and are prime numbers .
, 1883 .
] lnternal flexions in the Eye .
473 This last formula is derived from ( 246 ) .
I observe that the fundamental idea by which these integrals are obtained is given by the equation This method may be much extended .
II .
" " Internal Reflexions in the Eye By H. FRANK NEWALL , B.A. Communicated by Dr. M. FOSTER , Sec. R.b. Received January 18 , 1883 .
I have to record first came under my notice 1 .
The three or four years ago .
Often when at night by the light of a candle , in a room otherwise dark , my attention was caught a faint light some way out of the line of direct vlslon .
This seemed to defy nearer inspection ; for the instant I turned my eyes towards it , it was gone , thus showing that there was no objective , but that the light was due to some internal reflexion the eye .
Later , however , I found that by keeping ths eye fixed and moving the candle , the faint light could be observed at leisure , though , as far as I could then make out , never in the line of direct vision .
( See however below , S 32 .
) 2 .
The best conditions soon became apparent , and I have app lied two methods in later investigations : ( i ) One in which the eye fixed on a spot on a dark or uniform ground whilst the c.an is moved to and fro out of the line of direct vlslon .
( ii ) , One which the candle or source of light is kept fixed , whilst the eye follows the regular movement of some point , snch as the end of a pencil moved by the hand .
3 .
The firsb of these methods showed that the ghost , as I may call the faint light , moved roughly speaking in a hne drawn through the clearest vision and the candle , in direction opposed to that of point ears the candle 's motion with respect to the point ears vson , clearest vision , and with a velocity equal to that of the candle .
4 .
The second method showed what is practically the same thing , mely , that the line of movement of the ghost was described ; the direotion the same as that of the point of clearest vlslon over the field in front ; the velocity apparently about double that of the point of 5 .
In both methods the ghost merged into the candle close to the point of direct vision , and in other positions seemed about equally removed from that point with the candle .

