Remarks on the tendency to Calculous Diseases ; with Observations on the Nature of urinary Concretions , and an Analysis of a large Part of the Collection belonging to the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital .
By John Yelloly , M.D. F.R.S. &amp;c. Read June 19 , 1828 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1829 , p. 55 .
] The account given by the author of his examination of the urinary calculi contained in the Norwich Collection , the total number of which is 649 , relates more particularly to those which have been either purposely divided , or accidentally broken in the extraction , and which amount all together to about 330 .
He gives a tabular view of the results of his analyses of these calculi , and states , in the order of their occurrence from the centre , the consecutive deposits of the different materials of which they are composed .
About one half of the specimens consist only of one description of substance , and the remainder are formed of alternating layers , more or less numerous , of most of the substances which enter into the composition of human urinary calculi .
The distinction between the lithic acid and lithate of ammonia , though generally recognised abroad , was scarcely attended to in this country , until noticed by Dr. Prout .
The lithic calculi form , as is usual , the most numerous class of concretions in the Norwich collection , where they amount to nearly a third of the whole number ; and if the number of those containing either lithic acid , or lithate of ammnonia , as a nucleus , be taken into account , it will appear , as already observed by Dr. Prout , that not less than two thirds of all urinary calculi either consist of the lithates , or have those substances as their nuclei ; whence it may be inferred , that a large proportion of them probably owe their existence to the previous formation of such a nucleus .
The deposition of the phosphates is not followed by that of the other materials .
The oxalate of lime is the only substance entering into the composition of urinary calculi , which is ever found in the form of distinct and specific crystallization , and it then forms what is called the Mulberry calculus .
The author is led from his observations to suspect that carbonate of lime , although rarely found in a separate form in calculi , is not an unfrequent concomitant of phosphate of lime : with the assistance of Dr. Prout and Mr. Faraday , he ascertained the presence of carbonate of lime in some of the specimens which were not previously supposed to contain it .
This result was also confirmed by the analysis of several specimens of calculi from the collection in the Hunterian Museum , and also from the Museum of Guy 's Hospital , which he was permitted to examine .
The author is in hopes of being able to mak-e some additions to this communication , if he can obtain permission to divide some of the remaining calculi in the Norwich Collection , so as to give to the Society the result of the whole analysis .

