V. " Transformation of the Aromatic Monamlines into Acids richer in Carbon.-III .
On M enaphtylanline .
" By A. W. o11FMANN , LL. D. , F.1R.S .
tReceived June 1 , 1868 .
The transformation of naphtaline into its carboxylic acid suggests the existence of a large number of compounds which the progress of science cannot fail to realize .
It is not my intention to examine in detail this group of substances , the composition and even the properties of which are sufficiently indicated by theory .
There are nevertheless several terms of this series which I must not leave unprepared whilst engaged withi this question .
These are the aldehyde , the alcohol , and the monaminle of the series .
It is the latter substance of which I beg permission to submit today a short account to the Royal Society .
My first attempts to produce the aromatic monamine were anything but successful .
Cyanide of naphtyl , when left in contact with zinc and sllphuric acid , even for weeks , was found to yield but trifling quantities of menaphtylamine .
The greater portion of the nitrile was left unchanged , while more or less , by the absorption of the elements of water , was converted into menaphtoxylamide and even into mena)phtoxylic acid .
A slight modification , however , of the process usually adopted has removed these difficulties .
It is well known that N1 .
Mendius , after he had discovered the remarkable property possessed by nitriles of fixing two molecules of hydrogen , las submitted also the amides to the action of hydrogen in condition nascendi , in the hopes of replacing their oxygen by hydrogen , and of producing also in this manner the primary monamines .
These experiments have not been successful .
In the presence of the difficulties attending the preparation of menaphtylamine , the idea suggested itself of trying whether the sulphuretted amide of the series into which the nitrile is so easily transformed would not be more readily attacked by nascent hydrogen than the nitrile itself .
The result of this experiment was highly satisfactory .
On submitting an alcoholic solution of n menaphtothiamidc to the action of zinc and hydrochloric acid , torrents of sulphuretted hydrogen are at once evolved .
The addition of zinc and hydrochloric acid , and sometimes also of a little alcohol , is continued , until , after a day or two , the disengagement of sulphuretted hydrogen almost ceases .
The liquid is now mixed with concentrated soda until the precipitate of hydrate of zinc , which is formed in the commencement , is redissolved .
An oily layer containing much soda and alcohol is seen to separate and to collect on the surface of the aqueous solution .
This layer is removed and heated in the water-bath until the alcohol is volatilized .
An aqueous liquid is thus produced , on wlicli a yellow oil is floating .
The latter is principally menaphtylatnine , which is still mixed with a small quantity of cyanide of naphtyl regenerated from the thiocompound .
The oil is treated with dilute hydrochloric acid , the hydro .
445 chloric liquid separated by filtration from the cyanide , and decomposed by hydrate of sodium , when the base separates in a state of purity .
Menaphtylamine is a very caustic liquid , boiling between 290 ?
and 293 ? .
Freshly distilled it is colourless , but soon acquires a yellow tint .
It attracts carbonic acid with such avidity that it is impossible to pour it from one vessel into another without a pellicle of the difficultly soluble carbonate being formed on its surface .
The composition of the base was sufficiently indicated by theory ; it appeared nevertheless desirable to establish it experimentally by the analyses of the hydrochlorate and the platinum-salt .
The hydrochlorate crystallizes with the greatest facility in difficultly soluble needles , containing C11H12NCI =H N , -IC1 .
H The yellow crystalline precipitate which is formed by the addition of perchloride of platinum to the hydrochlorate has the composition C2 , H N , Pt C1 =2 [ ( C11 HI ) H12 N , HC1 ] , Pt C1 , .
The transformation of the thio-compound into menaphtylamine is thus seen simply to consist in the substitution of 2 atoms of hydrogen for 1 atom of sulphur : C , l H9 N S+ 2 I{ H =Cl H11 N H2 S. I have but little to say about the properties of menaphtylamine ; nevertheless the extraordinary crystalline tendencies of its salts deserve to be mentioned .
The sulphate and nitrate are likewise difficultly soluble ; the latter crystallizes in splendid nitrelike prisms .
In contact with bisulphide of carbon menaphtylamine solidifies at once to a crystalline mass .
When treated with alcoholic soda and chloroform , it is converted into the terribly smelling formomenaphtylnitrile , which I propose to examine somewhat more in detail .
I have also prepared benzylamine , starting from thiobenzamide instead of benzonitrile .
The experiment is of course likewise successful , the advantage , however , less conspicuous , since benzonitrile fixes hydrogen with far greater facility than the cyanide of naphtyl .
Be this , however , as it may , the facility with which hydrogen in condition nascendi acts upon sulphur-compounds deserves to be noticed .
I propose to examine in the direction indicated by the above experiments some of the more important sulphur-compounds , more especially the thio-acids of the fatty and aromatic series , and the two groups of sulphocyanic ethers .
The investigation of the latter , indeed , has already furnished me results of great neatness and precision .
In conclusion , I must not leave unmentioned that , since my first communication on the menaphtan series , I have had an opportunity of rem1oving the slight doubts respecting the identity of the acid obtained by the action of oxalic acid upon naphtylamine with that procured by treating a naphtalin-sulphate with cyanide of potassium .
M. V. Merz had found the fusing-point of the latter acid to be 140 ?
, whilst for the former I had observed the fusing-point 160 ? .
M. 0 .
Olshausen has since prepared in my laboratory a quantity of cyanide of naphtyl according to Merz 's process .
The acid obtained from this cyanide by treatment with an alkali , thrice recrystallized and finally purified by distillation , was likewise found to fuise exactly at 160 ? .
Menaphtoxylamide , procured from the same source , exhibited the fusing-point 203 ?
, while the compound I had formerly examined fused at 204 ?
* .
The identity of the acids obtained by the two processes is thus satisfactorily established .

