]\gt ; the invariants proper to the third order ; there is reason to suppose that , when they are completely identified in association with even a single surface in space , they can be used to establish two fundamental geometrical relations affecting the surface .
The Fundamental Magnit 1 .
The independent variables of position in space are taken to be .
That position is also defined in the customary manner by rectangular Cartesian co-ordinates ; and then may be regarded as three independent functions of Conversely , we shall assume that are expressible as functions of , which are regular in the vicinity of any assigned position , save for singular lines or points with which we are not concerned .
Moreover , if , the surfaces constant , constant , constant , form a triple family ; it will not be assumed that the triple family is orthogollal .
The parameters of the surfaces are sometimes called curvilinear co-ordinates .
Fundamental magnitudes for space arise in the expression of a distance-element in terms of .
Denoting this element by , we have in the usual notation , where the summation being taken over the three variables in each case .
The quantities ) , be called the fundamental magnitudes of the first kind , as involving derlvatives of only the first order .
Other fundamental magnitudes may exist in association with derivatives of higher orders ; they are ignored for the purposes of the present investigation .
* Those magnitudes , which are the natural generalisation of the magnitudes in the Gaussian theory of surfaces , are not independent quanlities ; they are proved by AYLEY , 'Coll .
Math. Papers , ' , 12 , p. 4 , to be expressible in terms of derivativss of It may be added that the memoir by CAYLEY , which has just been quoted , contains the establishment of the six intrinsic equations mentioned in the introductory remarks .
For r.easons which will appear in the course of the memoir , I have found it desirable to deviate to soIne extent from CAYLEY'S notation .
1)IFFERENTIAL INVABIANTS OF SPACF .
operty of 2 .
A combination of any number of functions of and of the derivatives of these functions is said to be a relative if , when any new independent variables are introduced , and the combination F of the modified functions and of their derivatives is formed , the relation is satisfied , where The invariants actually considered are rational , so that is an integer .
The invariant is called absolute when It is a known theorem that the property of invariance is possessed in general , if it is possessed for the most general infinitesimal transformation ; we shall therefore take , where are arbitrary integral functions of , and is an infinitesimal quantity of which only the first power is retained .
Derivatives with regard to , t ) are required ; we write for any quantity and for all values of .
With this notation , we at once have the retained value of in the form Arguments of the riants their 3 .
As regards the possible arguments of a differential invariant of space , we shall have the fundamental magnitudes of the first kind and their derivatives .
It is conceivable that properties of surfaces in the space and of curves in the space will be volved ; provision for the possibility will be made by the introduction of functions such as .
One of these , equated to zero or to a constant , will give a surface : two such surfaces will give a curve or curves : three such surfaces will give a point or points .
It is not difficult to see that will not occur explicitly in the expression of the invariant , nor will any function of them such as occur explicitly ; but DIFFERLNTIAL OF SPACE .
5 .
Let become ; and let the consequent values be ; then ?
1 !
where 222 ' implies summation for all positive integer ( including zero ) values of save only simultaneous zero values .
Hence also for all integer values of have Now Expand the first term on the right-hand side in powers of , and substitute all combinations such as in terms of ; expand also all the other quantities in powers of , and select the coefficient of .
Let then , neglecting powers of the first and multiplying up by we have where the summations are for all integer values of from to , of from to VOL. CCII .
\mdash ; A. SSOR A. R. FORSYTH ON THE of from to , the simultaneous zero values being excluded from the t.riple tions 2 in the first line of the right-hand side .
eeding in the same way with the expression for the increment of , we find where again the summations are for all integer values of from to , of from to , and of from to , the simultaneous zero values being excluded fxom the riple in the first line of the right-hand side .
Effecting in these two results all the interchanges that correspond to the interchange of the variables and , we obtain the values of ; and also effecting in them all the interchanges that correspond to the interchange of the variables and , we obtain the values of The expression for the increment of the derivatives of any function , where is in value by transformation , can be obtained in the same way as was that for the increment of the derivatives of ; it is found to be with the same significance for 222 ' as before .
It thus appears that if the highest order of derivatives of the fundamental magnitudes that occur in a differential invariant be , the highest order of derivatives of a Jnction that can occur is 6 .
In order to avoid encumbering the memoir with vast masses of symbols , I propose to exhibit the mode of constructing differential invariants up to the second order , that is , invariants involving derivatives of a single function up to the second order and derivatives of of the first order .
Then I propose to indicate what are the differential invariants up to the second order that involve more than a single function .
And as the last- part of the merely analytical portion of the memoir , I propose to state the results for differential invariants up to the third order but to give practically none of the contributory analysis .
Some idea of the protracted ; ; ; TIAL I OF ; The Differential Equations characferistic of the 7 .
Let denote any differential invariant .
at least some of the quantities whose increments due to an infinitesimal variation have just been given .
The ential equatiolm characteristic of the invariance can be deduced from the equation iu the usual malmer : we substitute for each argument in its value and equate to zero the composite coefficient of on the right-hand side .
The quantities are arbitrary and independent ; the coefficients of the various derivatives in the last equation must therefore vanish .
These relations are the partial differential equations which , up to the order of rentiation retained , are characteristic of the invariants ; they are as follows : PROFESSOR A. FORSyTH ON THE There are the three equations from the coefficients of respectively ; the three equations from the coefficients of respectively ; the three equations from the coefficients of respectively ; the three equations from the coefficients of respectively ; the three equations DIFFERENTIAL INVARIANTS OF SPACE .
the coefficients of respectively ; the three equations , from the coefficients of respectively ; the six equations FORSYTH ON from the coefficients of respectively ; and the three equations SPACL .
o the coefficieIlts of espectively .
The sir ) of th 8 .
The only differential invariant , which involves , without any of their derivatives and without any of the derivatives of , is The equations , .
, , as well as all equations arisin from the higher derivatives of are evanescent when no derivatives of 0CCU The six equations , .
, are satisfied uniquely by 1 ( say ; and the equations , , then satisfied uniquely by .
By effecting quadratures in the we find that is a constant multiple of .
The lowest power of , which is rational in , is ; we therefore take as the one diffel.eutial invariant of the specified 9 .
There is no proper differential invariant of the in the quantities alone , that is , there is no invariant ( other than ) involving these quantities and their first derivatives but no other magnitudes .
Let any such invariant , if it exists , be denoted by .
The equations which through derivatives of of order higher than the second are evanescent .
-From the equations , , ) , we have ; V0L .
and from the equations , , , we have These equations show that no one of the first derivatives of occur in the hypothetical invariant ; that is , there is no proper differential invariant of the first order in the quantities alone .
10 .
Next , are there any differential invariants , which involve but no derivatives of these quantities and which also involve derivatives of a single function of the first order but none of higher orders ?
The nine characteristic equations are FERENTIAL INVARIANTS OF SPACF .
The last three equations replace , being ( cr ) Inspection of the first eight equations shows that they are the differential equations of the invariants and the contravariants of the ternary quadratic the contragradient variables being .
Let be such an invariant or the leading coefficient of such a contravariant , that is , the coefficient of the highest power of ; in the latter case , the contravariant is uniquely determinate when is known .
Now satisfies the five equations This is a complete Jacobian system .
It apparently contains five members : but the fifth equation is a linear combination of the first four , and therefore the system really consists of four equations .
It involves six variables , ; and therefore it possesses two independent solutions .
One of these is ; the other is easily seen to be Returning now to the system of nine equations , and bearing in mind the fact that the first eight possess two solutions , one being and the other being a contravariant of the ternary quadratic which has A for its leading coefficient , we have the contravariant in the form The ninth equation is satisfied for any solution which is homogeneous in of degree and is also homogeneous in of degree , provided Hence the value of for is 2 .
There is thus a single absolute differential invariant of the type specified ; its value is

