204 Dr. W. C. Williamson .
On the Organisation [ Mar. 13 , Observations , \amp ; c. ( continued ) .
Washington :\#151 ; U.S. Department of Agriculture .
Bulletin .
No. 1 .
8vo .
Washington 1889 ; North American Fauna .
Nos. 1-2 .
8vo .
Washington 1889 .
The Department .
U.S. Geological Survey .
Bulletin .
Nos. 48-53 .
8vo .
Washington 1888-89 ; Monographs .
Vols. XIII\#151 ; XIY .
4to .
Washington 1888 .
The Survey .
March 13 , 1890 .
Sir HENRY E. ROSOOE , Knt. , Vice-President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part XVII .
" By William Crawford Williamson , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Botany in the Owens College , Manchester .
Received February 8 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) In 1873 the author described in the 'Phil .
Trans. ' an interesting stem of a plant from the Lower Carboniferous beds of Lancashire , under the name of Lyginodendron Oldhaminm .
He also called attention to sorpe petioles of ferns , more fully described in 1874 under the name of Rachiopteris aspera .
The former of these plants possessed a highly organised , exogenously developed , xylem zone , whilst Rachiopteris was only supplied with what looked like closed bundles .
Since the dates referred to , a large amount of additional information has been obtained respecting both these plants .
Structures , either not seen , or at least ill-preserved , have now been discovered , throwing fresh light on their affinities ; but most important of all is the proof that the asp a a is now completely identified as the foliar rachis or petiole of the Lyginodendron ; hence there is no longer room for doubting that , notwithstanding its indisputable possession of an exogenous vascular zone , the bundles of which exhibit both xylem and phloem elements , along with medullary and phloem rays , it has been a true Fern .
Though such exogenous developments have now been long known to exist amongst the Calamitean and Lycopodiaceous Ferns , as well as in 1890 .
] of the .
Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
other plants of the Carboniferous strata , we have had no evidence until now that the same mode of growth ever occurred amongst the Ferns .
Now , however , this Cryptogamic family is shown to be no longer an exceptional one in this respect .
All the three great divisions of the Vascular Cryptogams , the Equisetaceas , the Lycopodiaceae , and the Homosporous Filices of the primaeval world , exhibited the mode of growth which is confined , , at the present day , to the Angio-spermous plants .
A further interesting feature of the life of this Lyginodendron is seen in the history of the development of its conspicuous medulla .
In several of his previous memoirs , notably in his Part VI , the author has demonstrated a peculiarity in the origin of the medulla of the Sigillariau and Lepidodendrian plants .
Instead of being a conspicuous structure in the youngest state of the stems and branches of these plants , as it is in the recent Ferns , and as m most of the living Angiosperms , few or no traces of it are observable in these fossil Lycopodiacege .
In them it develops itself in the interior of an apparently solid bundle of trachea ?
( within which doubtless some obscure cellular germs must be hidden ) , but ultimately it becomes a large and conspicuous organ .
The author has now ascertained that a similar medulla is developed , in precisely the same way , within a large vascular bundle occupying the centre of the very young twigs of the Lyginodendron .
But in this latter plant other phenomena associated with this development make its history even yet more clear and indisputable than in the case of the Lycopods .
The entire history of these anomalous developments adds a new chapter to our records of the physiology of the vegetable kingdom .
Further light is also thrown upon the structure of the Heterangium Grievii , originally described in the author 's memoir , Part IV .
This plant presents many features in its structure suggesting that it too will ultimately prove to be a Fern .
The specimens described in the above memoir , published in 1873 , all possessed a more or less developed exogenous xylem zone .
But the author has now obtained other examples in which no such zone exists .
It is clear therefore that in this , as wTell as in so many others of the fossil Cryptogams of the Coal-measures , this exogenous development is a secondary phenomenon\#151 ; a product of a more advanced stage of growth .
In their younger states all these plants seem to approach nearer to their recent representatives than they do in their later stages of growth .
The author has now discovered the stem of a genus of plants ( Buwmanites ) , hitherto known only by some fruits , the detailed organisation of which was originally described by him in the ' Transactions of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester , ' in 1871 .
The structure of this new stem corresponds closely w'ith what is seen in Sphenophyllum and in some forms of Asterophyllites ( Memoir V , ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1874 , p. 41 , et .
) .
This discovery makes 2P6 Dr. P. F. Fmnkland and Mrs. Frankland .
[ Mar. 13 , an addition to our knowledge of the great Calamarian family , to which the plant obviously belongs .
Further demonstrations are also given by the author , illustrating some features in the history of the true Calamites .
Attention is called to the fact that , whilst the large , longitudinally-grooved and furrowed inorganic casts of the central medullary cavities of these plants are extremely common , we never find similar casts of the smaller branches .
The cause of this is demonstrated in the memoir .
In these young twigs the centre of the branch is at first occupied by a parenchymatous medulla .
The centre of this medulla becomes absorbed at a very early age , leaving the beginnings of a small fistular cavity in its place ; but , if any plastic mud or sand entered this cavity when the plant was submerged , the surface of such a cast would exhibit no longitudinal groovings , because there would be nothing in the remaining medullary cells surrounding the cast to produce such an effect .
It was only when the further growth of the branch was accompanied by a more complete absorption of the remaining medullary cells , causing the cavity thus produced to be bounded by the inner wedge-shaped angles of the longitudinal vascular bundles constituting the xylem zone , that such an effect could be produced .
After that change any inorganic substance finding its way into the interior of this cavity , had its surface so moulded by the wedges as to produce the superficial longitudinal ridges and furrows so characteristic of these inorganic casts .
II .
" The Nitrifying Process and its Specific Ferment .
" By Percy F. Frankland , Ph. D. , B.Sc. ( Lond. ) , A.R.S.M. , Ac .
, Professor of Chemistry in University College , Dundee , and Grace C. Frankland .
Communicated by Professor THORPE , F.R.S. Received February 28 , 18D0 .
( Abstract .
) The process of nitrification has been practically studied for centuries , but it was first in the year 1878 that it was shown by Schloesing and Muntz to be dependent upon the presence of certain minute forms of life , or micro-organisms , or in other words to be a fermentation change .
The authors have been engaged during the last three years in endeavouring to isolate the nitrifying organism , and the present memoir gives in detail an account of the numerous experiments which weie made in this direction .
Nitrification , having been in the first instance induced in a particular ammoniacal solution by means of a small quantity of garden

