8 .
" Researches in Embryology ; a Note supplementary to Papers published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1838 , 1839 and 1840 , showing the confirmation of the principal facts there recorded , and pointing out a correspondence between certain structures connected with the Mammiferous Ovum and other Ova .
" By Martin Barry , M.D. , F.R.S. , F.R.S.E. Received May-27 , 1853 .
Referring to his account of the process of fecundation of the mammalian ovum and the immediately succeeding phenomena , published in various papers in the Philosophical Transactions , the author calls attention to the confirmation which his views have received from corresponding observations made by subsequent inquirers on the ova of other animals .
He more particularly : adverts to a recently published memoir by Dr. Keber , in which that physiologist describes the penetration of the spermatozoa into the interior of the ovum , in Unio and Anodonta , through an aperture formed by dehiscence of its coats , analogous to the micropyle in plants .
Small pellucid vesicles , lined with ciliated epithelium and enclosing a revolving mulberry-like object , such as the author discovered imbedded under the mucous membrane of the rabbit 's uterus and described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1839 , have been likewise observed by Keber , not only under the mucous membrane , but also and most frequently in some part of the cavity of the abdomen .
Keber considers these bodies to be fecundated ova .
The author agrees with Keber in considering them to be ova , but he does not suppose them to be fecundated , nor does he think that their membrane is the vitellary membrane ( " zona pellucida " ) , which he believes to have been absorbed .
He considers such ova to have been detached from the ovary along with their containing ovisac , which in their new situation constitutes the ciliated capsule , and as they present themselves in unimpregnated animals , he now believes that the formation of a mulberry-like group of cells from the germinal spot and the process of division and subdivision of the latter take place without fecundation ; but when this happens , the mulberry is not found to contain one cell larger than the rest , the nucleus of which , according to his observations , is the embryo .
He is further of opinion , that in all cases of separation of ova , the ovisac or internal coat of the Graafian follicle is detached from the ovary , either entire and along with the ovum , as in the instances alluded to , or after the ovum has first escaped by rupture , as in the instance of the fecundated ovum .
The author is led to the following conclusions with reference to the structures connected with the ovum in different animals : .
That in the mammalia the vesicle he described as the foundation of the Graafian follicle , and termed the ovisac , does not remain permanently in the ovary , but is expelled and absorbed ; 2 .
That in the Bird , the ovum , when escaping from the ovary , is accompanied by the corresponding vesicle the ovisac ; and that the ovisac becomes the shell-membrane of the Bird 's egg .
3 .
That the expelled and lost ovisac in the mammalia therefore corresponds to the shell-membrane in the Bird .
4 .
That after the formation of the ovum the albuminous contents of the ovisac in the mammalia correspond to the albumen in the Bird 's egg .
5 .
That the author 's retinacula in the mammalia , after all , find their analogue in the chalazae of the Bird ; and that both have their origin in the granular contents of the ovisac , which at an early period are in appearance just the same in both .
6 .
That the shell-membrane of the Bird is thus a primary cell .
He then points out the position which from his observations is to 6e assigned to the several parts of the ovum in the language of " cells ; " and shows the presence of a plurality of ova in a Graafian follicle to be referable to the same cause as that producing more than one yelk ( ovum ) in the Bird 's egg .

