II .
An Account of the Honourable Robert Boyle 's way of examining Waters as to Freshness and Saltness .
To be Subjoyn 'd as an Appendix to his lately Printed Letter about Sweetned Sea-Water , Octob. 30 .
1683 .
HAving , since the Publication of the foregoing Letter , been commanded by the King , to show His Majesty an Experiment of the way herein mentioned , to examine the Freshness and Saltness of Waters ; I did in His Presence , ( and that of his Royal Highness , his Grace the Duke of Grafton , and several Persons of Quality ) make trial of it , both upon some Water prepared according to the Patentees way , and upon two or three Natural Waters , that were ordered to be brought .
In all which Trials , ( in some whereof his Majesty , for greater certainty , was pleased to employ His own Hands ) the Success was such , as moved him to vouchsafe the Experiment the Honour of his special Approbation , and to give me an encouraging Permission to communicate it , as a thing that may prove not unuseful to the Public This I think fit to mention , not only to procure to my way of trying Waters , the high Advantage of a Royal , and , ( on Philosophical Accounts ) Illustrious Patronage ; but that , if this Method be found as beneficial as I wish it may , Men may know to whom they ought to acknowledge the early Publication of it .
This is all my Hast allows me to premise , to the Account I am going to deliver , of the way of trying Waters hitherto spoken of : which Account I shall set down , as I drew it up to be dispatch 'd to a Friend * , in case I should have his Majesty 's permission to impart it to him .
H My I. N.B. This Paper was deposited with the Secretaries of the Royal Society , An. 1683 .
sealed up and opened since the Authors Death .
* Which should have been to the worthyDoctor John Beal , to whom the Letter this Paper refers to was written ; but to the Authors Grief , and the great loss of the Commonwealth of Learning , he died before this Paper was My way of examining the Freshness and Saltness of Waters , tho ' ( because it is wont to be surprising the first time one sees it tried , and has had the luck to be much talked of in many good Companies ) it is thought to be an Invention very difficult , to be either found out or practised , is yet really no such mysterious thing as Men imagine it .
And for my part , I hope it will be found much more considerable for its use , than I think it is for the degree of Skill and Sagacity , that was necessary to devise it .
For when I remembred and considered , that ( as I have found by various Trials ) divers Metalline , and other Mineral Solutions could be readily precipitated , not only by the Spirit of Salt , but by crude Salt , whether dry or dissolved in Water , it was no very difficult matter for me to think , that by a heedful application of the Precipitating Quality of common Salt , one might discover whether any Particles of it , ( at least in a number any way considerable ) lay concealed in a distilled Water , or any other proposed to be examined .
II .
To find whether I was not mistaken in this Conjecture , as also because it is very convenient to be as little as one can confined to one Material , I employed several Drugs , and those not all prepared by one Menstruum , to make the intended Discovery .
And , tho ' two or three of my other Trials had Successes , that I disliked not when I made them , yet that which at length I pitched upon as the most certain , and which therefore I meant , when I had the Honour to be sent for by his Majesty about the Patentees Water , was that which I think may be best understood , as well as recommended , by this short Narrative .
III .
I took some common Water distilled in Glass Vessels , that it might leave its Corporeal Salt , if it had any , behind it , and put into a Thousand Grains of it , one Grain of dry common Salt : Into a convenient quantity , for Example , two or three Spoonfuls , of this thus impregnated nated Liquor , I let fall a fit proportion , for instance Four or Five drops , of a very strong and well filtrated Solution of well-refined Silver , dislov 'd in clean Aqua Fortis ; [ for a shift , common or Sterling Silver will serve the turn : ] And I made the Experiment succeed with Spirit of Nitre , instead of Aqua fortis , upon which there immediately appeared a whitish Cloud , which tho ' but slowly , descended to the bottom , and settled there in a white Precipitate .
N. B. This Experiment having been several times , for the main of it , reiterated with Success , I thought fit to keep constant to the way of Probation I made use of in it , ( and which Trials had recommended to me for between 20 and 30 Years ) tho ' ( by reason of somethings that Hast forbids me to mention ) I pitched upon this way without at all denying , that Men of Sagacity , especially if well versed in Chemical Operations , may upon the same ground that I went upon , find some other and cheaper ways , tho'scarce any more nice and certain , of compassing the same end .
V. After what has been hitherto said , I presume I may seasonably proceed , to subjoyn the four ensuing Advertisements .
VI .
And First , I shall give notice , that , to make the Experiment rather severely , than at all favourably , there was usually taken somewhat more than a thousand parts of Water to one of Salt .
Next , I observed , that having let fall a few drops of our Metalline Solution , into the Liquor obtained from Sea water by the Patentees way of Sweetning it , there did not presently ensue any white Cloud or precipitate , much less such an one as had been newly afforded by the Water , that was impregnated with less than a thousandth part of Salt .
And if after some time there happened to appear ( for it is not absolute necessary it should ) a little Clowdiness in this Factitious Liquor , it was both slowlier proH 2 duc 'd , duc 'd , and much less , than that which appeared in the impregnated Water * .
* VIII .
And perhaps It may be proper , that I here observe ( what is not wont to be taken notice of ) That divers Solutions of Mineral Bodies may be Precipitated by Dilution ; that is , ( to explain this Expression ) when the Solution has time enough allow 'd to diffuse it self , through a great quancity of Water , the Saline Parts are thereby so dl'uted and weakned , that they are no longer able to sustain the Mineral Corpuscles , they kept swimming before , but make with them , and the Water , a consus 'd and subsiding Mixture .
usually of a whitish colour .
This may appear when the Butter of Antimony , being put into common Water , is thereby quickly and plentifully precipirated in the form of that white Powder , that Chymists ( not over-deservedly ) call Mercurius Vitae .
To which I way add , that I have also produced a Powder of that colour , by pouring into common Water a strong Solution of Tin Glass made in Aqua Fortis .
And by the same way we have precipitated the Tincture for Solutions of the finer Parts ) of Jalap , Benjamin , true Labdanum .
Antimonial Sulphur , and divers other Bodies made in Vinous Spirits .
If it were not for this Power , that Water has to weaken most Solutions of Bodies , I could have employed instead of that Silver , either Quicksilver dissolved in Aqua fortis , or Lead crude or ~ , in the same Liquor , or ( which is more convenient ) in strong Spirit of Vinegar ; since these , and some others , are found to be precipirable by Salt Water into ~ Powders .
But tho ' a very heedful Observer may for a shift , make use of these Metalline Solutions , to guess at the Quality of Water , as to Freshness and Saltness ; yet the Precipitation that is made by Dilution , is not difficult to be distinguished , from that which is performed by a true and proper Precipitant , ( as in our case by the common Salt , that is harboured in the Pores of the Water ) both by the quickne~ of the Effect , and the copiousness of the white Substance produced , and on both those accounts is very much inferior to it ; as may evidently appear in the very different Effects that out Solution of ~ ~ had upon the ~ Water , or upon well distilled common Water , compared with those it had upon Water impregnared with a thousandth part of Salt , and upon divers common and stilled Waters .
This Advertisement I have placed in the Margent , as not thinking it fit either to omit it , or by inserting it in the Body of the Writing , to give too great an Interruption to the Series of my ~ , IX .
Thirdly , The Usefulness of this Experiment is not to be estimated only by the Examen it helps us to make of dulcify 'd Sea water , but much more by the Estimate , that by its means may be made of natural Fresh Waters , whether of Springs , Rivers , Clouds , Lakes , Wells , ~c .
For it being generally granted , that those Waters , caeteris paribus , are the best , as well for the Wholsomness , as divers Oeconomical Uses , as Washing , Brewing , ~c .
that are freest from Saltness , which is an adventitious , and in most cases , a hurtful Quality in Waters ; by our way of examining these Liquors , a heedful Eye may in a trice discover , whether there be any latent Saltness in them , ( as most Waters imbibe from the Soil they have ~ , or do stagnate in ) and may enable one , especially by the help of a little Practice , to give a near guess , how much one Water is fresher than another , as I have purposely tried with pleasure in differing Waters , that were ordinarily drunk , even by considerable Persons .
And if once you have attentively marked , what change Four or Five drops , for instance , of our discovering Liquor , will make in two or three , or some other small determinate number of Spoonfuls , ( or rather of half Ounces ) of Water ; 'twill not be difficult for a heedful Observer , keeping the same proportion between the two Liquors , to make a near Estimate , whether any Natural Water proposed to him , have a greater , an equal , or a lesser degree of Freshness or Saltness , than that Water that he has chosen for his Standard ; and how much , in case there be a difference , the proposed Liquor is less or more free from Saltness than the other .
And that ( to add this upon the by ) such a difference in a Liquor of such frequent inward Use as Water ( which is the Basis of Beer , Ale , Mead , and some other common Drinks ) may have considerable Effects upon Humane Bodies in reference to Health , may be probably argued from the differing Effects that Waters more or less impregnated with Salt , have upon divers other Bodies , Since most Pump~Waters , for instance , will not boil Peas and Beef , and some other Aliments , near so well as Spring Water or Rain Water ; which are usually softer , and more free from the Saltness we speak of .
It is commonly known to Barbers and Laundresses , that the same PumpWater will not so well and uniformly , or without little Curdlings , dissolve Wash-balls and Soap , as Rain-Water , and some running Waters usually will : Nay , when I was curious of tempering Steel , I remember it was consess 'd by the skilfullest Artists I made use of , that some Tools , ( as Gravers , ~c .
) made of that hardest of Metals , would receive a differing Temper if they were quenched in Pump Water , from that which the like Extinction in Spring Water , or River Water , would give them .
But how to make our Estimate of the Freshness or Saltness of Water come nearect the Truth , is a Problem , Problem , of which I have now neither time nor convenience enough to deliver my Thoughts .
And by what has been said , I hope it does already seem sufficiently probable , that the way above proposed may prove of good use , both to Navigators , that are often necessitated to Water in unknown places , and to others that only , or frequently drink that Liquor , without having any better way than the Taste , ( which is but an incompetent one ) to estimate its Freshness and Saltness by* .
* XI .
I might add on this occasion , That , whereas Experience has informed several Persons who have consulted it , that divers Medecinal Waters , that are presumed to owe their Virtues to the participation either of Metalline , or of other Mineral Bodies , do upon trial appear to leave sometimes little , and sometimes nothing behind them , except a kind of common Salt ; our Precipitant may much assist Men to discover , whether a mineral Water proposed to be examined , do , or do not contain , such a Salt ; and if it do , whether it contain it copiously or no. This I have tried upon more than one of our English mineral Waters , and thereby found in a trice , that one that is reputed of another nature , contained pretty store of Saline matter ; and that another ( which is still , for ought I have learned , of an unexamined and unknown Nature ) is impregnated with a surprising Plenty of Saltish Substance .
But how and with what Cautions , our Precipitant may be the most usefully employed , about the Examen of medicinal and other mineral Waters , belongs not to this place , ( but to ~ another Paper .
) Upon which account I forbear to declare the use I have sometimes made of our Precipitant , in examining the fresh Urine of Men , the Serum of Humane Blood , and other Bodies belonging to what the Chymists call the Animal Kingdom .
XII .
Fourthly , ( and Lastly ) tho ' both in my Letter to Dr. I. B. and in this present Postscript , I did not for certain Reasons ascribe to our Method of examining Waters , a greater Nicety than to be able to discover one part of Salt in a thousand of Water , that Proportion being great enough to recommend it , and expressed by a round number easy to be retained in ones Memory : Yet I would not have it thought but that , if it were requisite , our Method may make more nice Discoveries .
For , having sometimes for Curiosities sake , put one Grain of Salt into no less than Fifteen Hundred of distilled Water , we could manifestly , ( tho ' not quite so conspicuously as before ) make it appear by our way , that even this so lightly impregnated Liquor was not devoid of Salt , but had more of that in it , than some of the Patentees Water that I kept by me had ; nay , I once found , that a Grain of dry Salt , being dispersed through two thousand , and another time About the Examen of Mineral Waters .
time that being dissolved in three Thousand times its Weight of the same kind of Liquor , so inconsiderable a proportion of Salt was plainly discoverable by our Precipitant .
But here Philosophical Candour forbids me to conceal an Objection that I made to my self , though it be the chief , if not the only considerable Scruple that occurred to me , about our way of examining Waters .
For I foresaw that it may be objected , that , whereas the Experiments hitherto mentioned have been tried only upon Waters impregnated with gross or corporeal Sea-Salt , this perhaps may not hinder , but that they may be imbued with the Spirits of Marine Salt , which by reason of their activity , may be as unhealthful to the Drinker , as the grosser Salt it self .
But tho ' to this Surmise I might answer , that a very small Proportion of Spirit of Salt , may in many cases make the Water seasoned with it , rather Medicinal than unwholesome ; yet I shall answer more directly to the Objection , by saying , that to manifest it 's not being well grounded , I took above a thousand Grains of distilled Water , and , instead of corporeal Salt , put to it one single drop of moderately strong Spirit of Salt , ( for I had much stronger by me , that I purposely declined to employ ) and having shook it into the Water , I let fall into a Portion of this unequally composed Mixture , some drops of our Solution of Silver , which presently began to precipitate in a whitish Form ; insomuch that , for ought appeared to the Eye , this Trial succeeded better , than if the Water had been impregnated with but a thousandth part of Corporeal Salt .
The like Experiment was made with the Patentees Water instead of the other .
And to pursue this Trial a great way further , I had the Curiosity to diffuse one drop of Spirit of Salt into two thousand Grains of distilled Rain Water ; and upon letting fall some drops of our Precipitant into it , I found that the Success well answered my Expectation And then , to to urge the Trial yet further , I added as much of the same distilled Rain Water , as by a modest Conjecture made it amount to at least half as much more .
So that one Grain of Spirit of Salt had a manifest Operation , tho ' not quite so conspicuous as the former , upon above three thousand Grains of Water , whose Immunity from common Salt we tried apart ; ) and possibly , if the Vial could have contained more , and would not have been , when filled , too heavy for our tender Balance , the Discolouration of the Mixture would have been discernable , the ' but one Grain of Spirit of Salt had been put upon Four , or even Five Thousand Grains of Water .
And that a drop of the Saline Spirit we made use of , did not equal in weight a grain of dry Salt ; I found by this , that having let fall into a counterpoised piece of Glass , ten drops of that Spirit , I found them to want near half a Grain of nine Grains weight ; which way of estimating I chose , as less subject to any considerable Error , than that of weighing a single Drop by it self .
The like Trial I made by substituting above a thousand Grains of Rain Water , in the room of the like quantity of distilled Water .
And these two Experiments I the rather mention , because they do not only show how free the Patentees Water was from Spiritous , as well as from Corporal Sea-Salt ; but also manifest that , whereas it is the Opinion of some Sea-men , and of a Person , for whom I have a profound respect , that Water ought to have a little saltishness to preserve it ; if this be really a desirable Quality in our Artificial Water , it may in a trice be supplied with as much Saltness , whether Corporal or Spirituous , as shall be required , and consequently as will bring it to be equal in that quality to the common Water of Rivers , or of Springs .
And perhaps 'twill not be impertinent to add on this occasion , that in some places , especially lying in hot Climates , it may sometimes be of good use to know , whether on the account count of the Sun 's Heat , or that of the Subterraneal Regions of the Earth , the Rain-Water is impregnated with Volatile ( not Acid ) Spirits , like those that are distilled from Urine , and which I have for Curiosities sake , obtained from a Mineral Body , native Sal-armoniac ; upon which account I made a Trial , that informed me , that if Five or Six drops of strong Spirit of Urine ( whose drops I observed to be but small ) were shaken into a thousand Grains at least of distilled or Rain Water , impregnated with but one of Salt , our Precipitant would make a Discovery of some Saltishness in the Liquor .
And it were neither to be admired nor censured , if the Patentees Water should sometimes show a Change , when our Precipitant is plentifully put or long kept in it , especially that Change being a more light one , than that I came from speaking of .
Since , for ought I have yet observed , not only such undistill 'd Waters as are generally allow 'd to be freely potable , but even those that Nature her self distils , are not always quite devoid of Saltness .
For I have found Rain-Water that I caus 'd to be carefully saved , after the House-tops had newly been well washed with former Rain , to grow a little troubled , if any store of our Precipitant were kept for some competent time in it .
And being gently distilled off , it left a residence , which with a little of our Solution afforded a far more suddenly made and copious Precipitate , than had been produced with the like quality even of Pump-Water it self .
And , tho ' I have met with Rain-Water that was more free from Salt than any Spring or River-water that I remember , I have examined ; yet , having for Curiosities sake made Trial of Snow-Water , ( which if the Weather had been somewhat milder , would have been Rain ) this Liquor , I say , which is thought to afford the lightest Water of all natural ones , I manifestly found by our way of examining it , not to be devoid of Saltness .
But to return to the Trial we made with the Spirit of Salt , these Experiments may not a little confirm the Freshness of the Patentees Water .
And whereas some have either really suspected , or invidiously pretended , that even a moderate Action of the Fire upon Water , will make it brackish and putrefy : As I see no substantial grounds of this Surmise , so it appears by the foregoing Trials , that really the Patentees Water is not brackish , but is more free from Saltness , than most of the Waters Men do without scruple drink : And if it were true , that this Water should not keep quite so long as others , yet that were no more than is objected ( how truly I now enquire not ) to the Generality of distilled Waters : And that this we speak of , may keep sweet longer than is necessary in a Ship , that can from time to time , within a few days supply it self with fresh out of the Sea , may be gathered from these two things .
The First is , That to satisfy my self , whether closeness would make the prepared Water soon putrefy , ( as seemed obvious to be surmis 'd ) or at least afford Dregs , I caus 'd a Pint , or a Pound of it , to be hermetically sealed in a Vial , whereof I left by guess about a third part empty , and having above six Weeks after held this Vessel against the Light , I found the Water to be clear and limpid ; tho ' I did not judge it had deposited so much as the tenth part of a Grain of Feculency .
And having opened the Seal , and taken out a little of the Liquor , I did not find it altered , either as to Smell or Taste .
The Second of the two things that were to be mentioned , is , That I have kept the Bottle of prepared Water mentioned in my Letter to Dr. Beal , in the same unstopt Vessel ever since March , that is so long , that it is now near eight Months old , and yet it continues sweet and well conditioned .
And , if that which is called Crudity in Water does consist , ( as probably it often times does ) in certain gross Particles that are mingled with the purely aqueous ones , it is likely , likely , that the Action of the Fire may divide and dissipate these into Minuter Particles , and thereby destroy the Texture that makes them hurtful ; and by causing innumerable tumblings and rovings among the more earthy Particles , give them opportunity to make little Coalitions , whose weight precipitating them to the bottom , frees the pure Water from them .
And because it is but too probable , that the unwholsomness of divers Waters proceed , not only , or perhaps not so much , from bare Crudity , as from a great quantity of grosser Particles , that are not easy to be raised , because of their being combined with fixed and earthy ones , that swim up and down in the Water they impregnate , as Silver or Mercury does in a Solution made with Aqua fortis , or rather as the Particles of Salt do in Pump-water , and many other common Waters : On this account I say , the Patentees Invention may very much correct such Waters , since by their way of sweetning those Liquors , the truly Aqueous Parts are not only freed from the Saline ones , but from the Mineral , and other gross and hurtful Corpuscles that may have lain concealed in the Liquor .
As may be argued from hence , that having purposely in the gentle Fire of a digestive Furnace , slowly distilled off a Pound of the Patentees Water , it left us in the Cucurbit so light and thin a Feculency , that the bottom of the Glass seemed to be rather sullied than covered by it ; and I did not judge that the whole Feculency , if we could have got it out , would have amounted to so much as two Grains .
XVI .
But to return , after this short , and I hope not impertinent Digression , to what I was lately saying , of the Virtue of the Fire , to correct the Crudity of Waters ; I shall proceed , and say , that perhaps it was upon some such Reasons , ( to which others might be added , if I could in few Words confirm Paradoxical ones ) that the last Great Duke of Tuscany when he drank Water , ( for it was not , 12 as as I perceive some have misunderstood , his only Drink ) preferred for wholsomness that which was distilled to that which was not ; and if herein that Learned Prince , and those of the same Opinion , were not mistaken , it will highly recommend the usefulness of the Patentees Invention to Mankind : For I shall on this occasion observe , that there are multitudes of Waters that are not considerably brackish to the Taste , that yet , by reason of some unheeded Saltness , as in most Pump-waters , are more frequently , by reason of Crudity , are not only unfit , or ( at best ) less fit , for divers Oeconomical Uses , as Washing , Boiling of some Meats , &amp;c. but are very unwholesome ; sometime to a degree , that makes them mischievous to whole Communities , and perhaps Nations .
Of this 'twere to be wished , that it were harder to give Instances .
I remember I have seen a notable one , in those hugh and unsightly Tumors about the Throat , which are observed by Travellers to be exceeding common , among those that inhabit the lower Tracts of Ground that lie between the Rhaetian , Helvetian , and some other neighbouring Mountains ; which monstrous Swellings are generally imputed to the Snow Waters that flow from the Mountains , and make the usual Drink of the meaner sort of People ; whence it is observed , that Persons of better condition , who drink Wine more than Water , are either not at all , or far less troubled with these disfiguring Goitres , ( as they call them .
) But much more notable instances to our present purpose are afforded me by that Great , ( and yet living ) Traveller Monsieur Tavernier ( Baron of Aubonne ) who speaking of a Nation of Cafres or Negroes , that comes sometimes to trade with the Portuguez from a remote part of Africa , informs us , That the Water of their Country is very bad , which is ( says he ) the reason that their Thighs do swell , and it is a wonder to see any one of them free .
Nay , which is far more , where he speaks of the African Kingdom ( or Tavernier 's Travels .
Part II .
Book II .
chap .
23 .
page .
or Empire ) of Monomotapa , he has this memorable Passage , The Natives never live long , by reason of the badness of the Waters in the Country .
For at the Age of Twenty Five they begin to be Dropsical , so that it is a great wonder if any among them live above Forty Years .
What Monsieur Tavernier delivers being taken for XVIII .
granted , it seems very probable , that these People may be much relieved , and be brought to live as long as other Nations , if they had so compendious a way as that of the Patentees , to provide themselves plentifully with Waters , whose Crudity is corrected , its grosser and heavier parts separated , and its brackishness destroyed by the Fire , as its Action is regulated and helped by their Invention .
XVIII .
The Experiment mentioned in this Paper was tried at a meeting of the Royal Society , Feb. 17 .
169~ .
by Dr. Slone , with a Success answerable to the Assertions of the Honourable Author , and that a drop or two of Spirit of Salt mixed with common Water , would be by the same Method discovered .
At another meeting of the said Society on the 2d of March following , Dr. Hooke read a Lecture concerning another Method of his own for the discovering the smallest quantity of Salt contained in Water , from a Principle of Hydrostaticks ; and after his Discourse thereof , he producod the Apparatus which he had prepared to exhibit the same before the Persons then present ; and it was there shown , that the Iustrument he applied to that Scrutiny did very evidently discover the Mixture of a 2000th part of Salt added to common Water , and would easily have detected half that quantity of Salt added to an equal quantity of Water , as was judged by those that observed the Success thereof .
The Method of doing which Operation was by means of a large Poise of Glass , somewhat of the shape of a Bolt-head , the Ball of which was about 3 Inches Diameter , but the Stem or Neck thereof was not above half a Line , or a twenty fourth part of an Inch ; this was so poised by Red Lead put into it , as to make it but a little heavier than fair , or fresh Water .
Then this Poise was suspended by the small Stem to the end of a slender Beam , which was very tender , and being not over-charged with weight , would turn with a small part of a Grain .
This Beam was hung on a steady Frame , and the Poise hanging at one end of the same , covered with the Water to a certain Mark or Division made on the small Neck , it was so counterpoised by some small Weights put into the opposite Scale of the Balance .
Then ( the weight of the Water contained in the Cistern or Vessel into which the Poise was immersed being first known ) a 2000th part of it 's weight was taken of common Salt weighed out , and put into the whole 2000 parts of the Water , which by being stirred soon dissolved .
Then the Poise suspended as before , was viewed and examined by many then present , and they manifestly saw that near half an inch more of the Neck emerged out of the Water so seasoned , than did before the 2000th part of Salt was dissolved therein , This was only one use of this Method of discovering very small Alterations in the Constitutions of Bodies , the same Author having long since , namely , October 25 .
1677 .
shown to the same Society a Method of discovering divers Alterations much more curious , namely , to the 176000th part of it 's weight .
This Description will be more easily apprehended by the first Figure , where A signifies the Beam , B the Ball of the Poise , CC the Neck , D the Mark to which it sunk in Fresh Water , EE the Cistern or Vessel containing the Water , F the Scale wherein the Weights to counterpoise

