" On Magnetic Calms and Earth-Currents .
" By CHARLES V. WALKER , Esq. , F.R.S. , F.R.A.S. &amp;c. Received February 3 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The author uses the word " calm " in a negative sense , " not storm " , and states that very few notable earth-currents have attracted attention since the date of his original communication to the Royal Society , which was read on February 14 , 1861 .
Referring to that communication , he calls attenti on to the London , Tonbridge , and Dover-London lines of telegraph , making an angle of direction with each other of 149 ?
, and by means of which a few groups of observations were made , from which the prevailing direction of earth-currents was determined to be approximately N.E. or S.W. He wished to multiply these observations and to modify them , which he was well able to do from the circumstance that the Dover -London telegraph wires enter his own private office at Tonbridge , where , by means of the necessary apparatus , he is able at any moment , when the wires are not occupied by telegrams , to obtain possession of the whole wire from end to end , Dover-London ; or either section , London-Tonbridge , or Dover-Tonbridge , - the two former being the limiting lines , or those making the greatest available angle with each other , and the last , which is intermediate , being useful in confirmation of the observations made on the other two .
The telegraph needles have been rarely affected of late , the earthcurrents which form the subject of the present communication being feeble .
In order to their examination it was therefore necessary to prepare a delicate galvanometer , which is properly connected with the telegraph wire , and furnished with the simplest possible apparatus for bringing it into action whenever occasion serves .
It is within arm 's length of the author when in his office .
The pressing-down of a spring allows any earth-current that may be present to enter the galvanometer ; a brass plug , placed in holes 1 , 2 , and 3 , gives possession of the whole line , or either of its sections .
The needle is deflected on the side marked " ' up " or " down , " according as the current collected is moving up or down the line ; and in all the Tables given in this communication the letters " u " or " d , " placed beside the degrees of deflection , give the direction of the current in the above popular terms .
The galvanometer , with its appliances , accompanies this communication , and is placed on the table as in situ , and will at a glance give an idea of the arrangement , of which also the author gives a plan .
A Table is given of earth-currents collected at Tonbridge , in October 1861 , on the lines in question , together with the Meteorological Register of the month .
An analysis of these observations follows , included with which is an analysis of all observations of a like character that were made in the subsequent month of November .
A few cases are recorded in which the earth gave no sign of current .
No stress is laid on this , because a closer investigation with more delicate instruments might have given positive results .
The contents of the Table are divided into Normal , Abnormal , and Exceptional .
Out of a total of 276 observations , 230 gave normal results , confirming the conclusion already arrived at , that the prevailing direction of earth-currents was approximately N.E. or S.W. Whether one or other of these directions prevailed more or less at different periods of the day did not appear , the observations not being sufficiently consecutive .
Father Secchi 's views of the relation between metereological phenomena and magnetic variation are referred to .
The author has reason to conceive that sunshine or cloud , heat or cold , influence the relative values of the current collected from different parts of the same district ; in connexion with which he refers to a group of night observations , which form part of the series made in October , and also to the want of consistency in the relation between two derived currents collected at the same time from different parts of the same plane .
He gives a few extracts from the Table , showing how very variable are the relations ; for instance , 15 ?
: 15 ?
; 15 ?
0 : 30 ; 15 ?
: 35 ?
; 13 ? ?
38 ?
; 18 ?
: 21 ?
; and soon .
Professor Loomis 's " Eighth Article " on the subject is referred to ; and the correspondence between the results at which he arrives by other processes , and those to which Mr. Walker arrives by the methods herein described , are given .
In addition to the currents whose direction has been already noted , 42 cases occurred of currents which , for distinction sake , are called Abnormal , and which were equally definite in character .
They are found in the S.E. and N.W. quadrants ; but the probable place in these quadrants could not be determined with any approach to accuracy from the lack of other lines of telegraph immediately at command .
Four diagrams are given in illustration of the normals and abnormals .
The authdr mentions that the South-Eastern Railway Company have cordially entertained the proposition , to which he has previously referred , of the Astronomer Royal ; and that he is now preparing to erect wires for Mr. Airy , terminating respectively near Dartford and Croydon , and which by combination will give an angle of 36 ?
or 107 ?
, the former , however , being without the range of normal direction .
The consecutive observations to be made on these wires promise to be very instructive .
The porcelain-ebonite insulator that will be used is described ; a specimen is on the table .
Among the 276 October-November observations , four cases occurred .
which are exceptional and do not admit of similar discussion .
Subsequent observations may explain these .
Next follows a survey of the N. and S. boundaries of a plane , the mean dimensions of which are 56 miles x 20 miles , bounded on the N. by the Thames , and on the S. by the Dover-Tonbridge line of railway .
This was accomplished by aid of the earth-plates at Ramsgate and London , to the former of which access was had at Tonbridge , when required , by means of a switch at Ashford Junction .
A Table is given of observations made during November and December , which show that the plane of the current is at least 20 miles wide , and the direction is consistent at either limit of the plane .
Tonbridge being very nearly midway on a line joining London and Hastings , gave the opportunity of making observations on the whole or on either half of a same line of country .
The results collected in November and December are given in a Table , and show a conformity in direction in the whole and in both halves , but a marked excess in value in the London-Tonbridge as compared with the Hastings-Tonbridge section .
These differences are considered by the author as probably due to the different geological conditions of the country on either side of Tonbridge .
Sections kindly furnished by Mr. Robert Hunt are referred to .
These differences indicate the influence of local conditions , as the differences previously mentioned point at the interference of meteorological variations .
In order to satisfy himself that he was dealing with currents collected bonad fide from the earth , and in no way from the atmosphere , arrangements were made with the clerks at Ashford to detach the observing wire from the earth there when required .
A considerable number of observations were made during October , November , and December , the results of which are tabulated .
Whether the current , as shown by the galvanometer , was weak or strong , it in every instance entirely ceased when the wire at Ashford was detached from the earth and held insulated ; so that no portion of the result was derived from any other source than the earth .
These observations were made at all periods of the day and night , and in all weathers .
Powerful artificial currents were repeatedly made to flow into the earth by the earth-plates , in order to see whether any effects of polarization were produced ; but the value of the earth-current , as observed before any such experiment , remained unchanged .
That the currents collected are in no way due to the electromotive power of the earth-plates themselves , is shown by the absence of any sign of a tendency for one or other direction .
They are independent in character and in value of all such influences .
To prevent misconception , a list of the earth-connexions used at the several stations that enter into the present investigation is given .
The author considers it may be premature to regard the subject as tolerably exhausted , as far as the means at his command are concerned ; but at this moment he does not notice any other salient point within his reach .
When the proposed special wires are ready for Mr. Airy , and consecutive observations are made and compared with the march of the magnetometers , the subject will be within the reach of the able hands of Mr. Airy ; and we may be well assured that the various questions connected with it will be ably discussed by him .
The results comprehended in this and the previous communication are briefly summed up as follows:1st .
That currents of electricity are at all times moving in definite directions in the earth .
2nd .
That their direction is not determined by local causes .
3rd .
That there is no apparent difference , except in degree , between the currents collected in times of great magnetic disturbance and those collected during the ordinary calm periods .
4th .
That the prevailing directions of earth-currents , or the currents of most frequent occurrence , are approximately N.E. and S.W. respectively .
5th .
That there is no marked difference in frequency , duration , or value , between the N.E. and the S.W. currents .
6th .
That ( at least during calm periods ) there are definite currents of less frequency from some place in the S.E. and NoW .
quadrants respectively .
7th .
That the direction of a current in one part of a plane on the earth 's surface ( at least as far as the S.E. district of England is concerned ) coincides with the direction in another part of the plane ; and if the direction changes in one part , it changes in all parts of the plane .
8th .
That the relation in value between currents in a given part of the plane and currents in another given part is not constant , but is influenced by local meteorological conditions , and varies from time to time .
9th .
That the value of the current of a given length , moving in a given line of direction , is not necessarily the same as of a current of the same length on the same line of direction produced , and that their relative value depends on the physical character of the earth interposed between the respective points of observation , and is tolerably constant .
10th .
That the currents which have formed the basis of these investigations are derived currents from true and proper earthcurrents , and neither in whole nor in any appreciable part have been collected from the atmosphere , nor are due either in whole or in any appreciable part to polarization imparted to earth-plates by the previous passage of earth-currents or of powerful telegraphic currents ; nor are they due to any electromotive force in the earth-plates themselves .
11th .
That the earth.currents in question ( at least the powerful currents present at all times of great magnetic disturbance ) exercise a direct action upon magnetometers , just as artificial currents confined to a wire exercise a direct action upon a magnet .

