]\gt ; The Lommel-Weber Thus the only operation special to the path is the calculation of the right : hand side of ( 12 ) .
Now is determined as a function of by the preceding graphical method .
Accordingly within each range to or portion of such can be calculated by any convenient method of quadrature .
Thus ( and r ) are determined as functions of , and all the elements of the path ( viz. , are determined in terms of The Function and its to the Problem of Electric on Thin By J. B. AIPEY , M.A. , D.Sc .
Communicated Prof. Nicholson , Received December The function defined by the integral when is an integer , by , is osely related , which was first given by Bessel under the form The function , of less importance in its application than the function , occurs in a number of problenls in mathematical physics , more especially those relating to the interference and diff.raction of sin elnployed by in the problem of the reaction of the air on a vibrating circular plate , and by H. in the theory of action in .
H. applied the function and , in addition , found a nnlnber of interesting properties of , .
the ecurrence formula the development in serieh of and powers of the Lord Rayleigh , ' Theoly of Sound , ' vol. 2 , , equation ( 6 ) . .
Struve , " " Theory der Diffraction an Fernrohren de ) .
Physik und emie , ' } , p. 1013 .
H. F. Weber , " " Die wahre Theory der Fresnel'schen ' Vierteljahrsschrift der Natnrforschenden Gesellschaft iirich , ' vol. 24 , p. 48 .
308 Dr. J. R. Airey .
Application of Lommel-Weber 308 Dr. J. R. Airey .
of Lommel-Weber by the following series when is an even numOer , Lommel* proved that the is represented where and is the Bessel function of the second kind according to Lommel 's definition .
A similar formula gives the value of the function when is odd .
Functions of higher order occur in the problem of electric waves on a thin anchor .
If is the radius of the circular axis of the ring , the radius of the circular section , any integer and , Lord found that approximately .
( 1 ) The second integral determines the imaginary palt of , where , and ib has been that this can be expressed in terms of Bessel functions of nearly equal order and argument , or , ( 2 ) and On the other hand , the real part of is made up of contributions from both integrals .
The second integral takes the form , ( 3 ) where nearly .
To evaluate this , Lord introduces the .
( 4 ) * Lommel , " " Sir Theory der Bessel'schen nctionen ' Math. Ann vol. 16 , p. 188 .
Lord Rayleigh , " " Electrical Vibrations:on a Thin Anchor Bing 'Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 87 , p. 194 .
, p. 196 .
Function to Electric on Ancho Ring .
The function is no other than the function , but Che term in the numerator in ( 3 ) , althougl not affecting the imaginary the functions , educes the result for the real ) to But che ibution to real part of from first integral is ?
and is term oI ) .
CoIJsequently , equation ( 21 ) in Lord 's paper takes the simple form and ) ?
( 6 ) since* ) ) ( 7 ) Hence ( 8 ) and the equivalent vave l , are given by ( 9 ) Where is small , and ) are readily obtained from the series in ascendin powers of , ( 10 ) or , in of the Bessel , .
( 11 ) The asy ) totic expansion given by Lommel and cannot be usefully employed where the order and argument are large .
Expressions giving the of , , etc. , can be derived from a result due to Sonine and Hi .
* Nielsen , ' funktionen , Nielsen , ' ktionen , , .
48 .
310 Dr. J. R. Airey .
of Lommel-Weber e 's result the function being the same as Hankel 's and equal to .
Schlafli found Here is equal to .
Fivpressed in the form , ( 12 ) the Neumann function is equal to .
Very complete of and with other related functions have been computed for a large number of values of .
The integral in ( 12 ) can be evaluated by the " " Saddle Point\ldquo ; method of contour tegration , or by the less elaborate method given below .
Takin the case where ) order and argument are equal and is an even integer , .
( 13 ) In the integral ) , change the variable by substituting .
then if is written for this series , and iting for ) and applying to each of the Sonine , .
onctions iques ' Math. Ann vol. 3 , p. 2 , " " chen nnctionen 'Math .
Ann vol. 3 , p. 143 .
' Report of the Mathematical Tables Committee of the British Association , ' 1916 , pp. S , ' Math. Ann vol. 67 , pp. ) ; Brillouin , ' Annals de l'Ecole Normale , ' vo ] .
33 , .
Function to Electric Waves on Thin Anchor Ring .
terms in the inteo.randb , we find .
( 14 ) In .
integral , on substituting for the series and before , we .
( 15 ) It has been shown* Therefore .
( 16 ) For , the in ( 10 ) and ) The is expanded in a series of ascending ) of .
in the first and the result , ' lath .
Ann vol. G7 , : Phil. Mag vol. 31 , p. 526 ( June , 1916 ) .
Dr. J. R. Airey .
cation of -Weber the last in each expansion being given approximately .
When is equal to ) is an even number , the urrence formula reduces to .
( 18 ) Schlafli 's polynomials may be elnployed to simplify the calculation , since the in ( 13 ) is equal to Then ' ( 19 ) .
( 20 ) and ' ( 21 ) If is not very large , the functions and can be found without difficulty from ( 22 ) Table of The corresponding values of for to ?
are .
R. .
R. Thus as the value of increases , i.e. for the higher modes of free vibration , , the equivalent wave-length , approaches the value metion to Electric Waves on Thin Anchor In general case , where the order and argument are nearly qual , when being a small number , the integral If and is written for , then and ressing e in terms of , after a little reduction , The first seven values of are as follows , For the integlal , put and Then and The Lommel-Weber Functvon .
Since where Finally , knowing the development of or in series of descending powers of , we obtain the result and The coefficients are the same as those occurring in the asymptotic expansion of , but , etc. , disappear in the final expression owin to the zero factor .
The al'gumsnts of the functions associated with these coefficients are integers .

