352 Messrs. B. Moore and S. Vincent .
primitive vessels : the anterior ventral aorta , the fourth left ceph p aortic arch , the fused portions of the primitive dorsal aortas , am some mammals the fused dorsal ends of the caudal arches .
The permanent adult aorta , in so far as it is formed by the pri tive dorsal aortae , ends posteriorly either at the bifurcation into two common iliac arteries or at a point corresponding to this bifuu-tion , when by more extensive fusion involving the dorsal parts of secondary arches there are no common iliacs , and the external internal iliac arteries appear to arise directly and separately from aortas .
In each case the continuity of the primitive aorta is in rupted , and the primary caudal arches are replaced by second caudal arches , after which the continuations of the aorta are rej sented by the vessels into which the secondary caudal arches ultimately transformed .
Our conclusions are further supported by more extended obsei tions on the anatomy of the posterior end of the aorta , and terminal branches in mammals , and on the abnormalities they pres in man , a general account of which is included in the memoir .
' Further Observations upon the Comparative Chemistry the Suprarenal Capsules , with Remarks upon the N existence of Suprarenal Medulla in Teleostean Fish By B. Moore , M.A. , Sharpey Scholar , University Colle London , and Swale Vincent .
M.B. ( Lond. ) , British Med Association Research Scholar .
Communicated by Profee E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received January 27 , \#151 ; R\lt ; February 10 , 1898 .
( Prom the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) In a previous communication* we have shown that the pai segmental suprarenals of Elasmobranchs contain a chromogen w gives the same reactions as that of the medullary portion of the suj renal capsule of higher vertebrates , while the inter-renal body m same order of fishes contains no such chromogen .
These facts v put forward in support of views previously expressed , f t a segmental bodies corresponded physiologically , as well as morp logically and histologically , to the medulla of mammalian suprarei while the inter-renal corresponded to the cortex .
Now it has been already pointed out* that the known suprare * ' Koy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1897 ( read December 11 , 1897 ) .
f Swale Vincent , ' Eoy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 64 , and ibid. , toI .
6 , p-other references ( given in these two papers ) .
J Swale Vincent , loc. cit. 176 , Comparative Chemistry of the Suprarenal Capsules , fyc .
353 ies ( " corpuscles of Stannius " ) of Teleosts do not contain the \gt ; 'siologically active principle which is characteristic of suprarenal rlulla .
This is shown both by testing the action of an extract , ie from them upon the blood-pressure of a living mammal , and 5 by the effects of subcutaneous injection of an extract.* In both .
; 3S negative results are obtained .
The natural conclusion to be drawn from these observations would m to be that the representative of the suprarenal medulla is absent nTeleostean fishes .
But that an organ of such manifest and vital portance in mammalsf should be totally unrepresented in by far !
majority of living fishes , seemed to us so remarkable that we con-ered it necessary to furnish some further evidence upon this point , [ n our previous paper upon the comparative chemistry of the prarenal capsules , J we had to regret that material for investigation the chemistry in Teleosts had been wanting .
Since then , how-- 3r , we have obtained six large specimens of Gadus The prarenal bodies obtained from these weighed in a moist state 1gram .
These were boiled with normal saline so as to make a per cent , decoction ; this was carefully filtered and the pale yellow \gt ; ; rate tested for the chromogen with chromic acid , ferric chloride , \lt ; i# , as described in our previous paper , but no colour reactions what-\gt ; , r were obtained .
The same experiment was tried with material \gt ; m Anguillaanguilla .
As some observers S have believed the mphoid " head-kidney " to have something to do with the supra-nal bodies , we have tested this also for the chromogen , with entirely igative results .
|| Again , we have examined other portions of the kidney with the eatest minuteness , but have failed to find anything which resembled e suprarenal medulla , either in its histological , physiological , or \lt ; emical features .
The chief facts in our possession are , then , as follows :\#151 ; 1 .
The known suprarenal bodies of Teleosts resemble anatomically id histologically the inter-renal body of Elasmobranchs and the .rtical portion of the suprarenal capsules of higher vertebrates .
2 .
An extract made from them , when injected into the blood-vessels : a living mammal , does not raise the blood-pressure .
3 .
The extract does not produce physiological effects when injected ibcutaneously .
* * * S * Swale Yincent , loc. cit. t See Oliver and Schafer , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 1.8 , No. 3 , 1895 .
$ 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' read December 11 , 1897 .
S ' Weldon , ' Quart .
Journ. Mic .
Soc. , ' vol. 24 , p. 171 , and vol. 25 , p. 127 ; also rosglik , 1 Zool. Anz .
, ' 1885 .
|| It has been previously determined that " head-kidney " contains no physio-gically active substance .
Mr. S. Vincent .
4 .
The bodies do not contain the chromogen which is alwa present in suprarenal medulla .
5 .
The lymphoid " head-kidney " presents none of the featnr anatomical or histological , which would lead one to conclude it h anything to do with the suprarenal gland : moreover , extracts pi pared from it have no physiological action , and contain chromogen .
6 .
Other portions of the kidney give the same negative results .
7 .
No other gland or tissue which might be suprarenal medulla revealed by the most careful dissection .
From these observations we are forced to the conclusion that tl medullary portion of the suprarenal capsules is non-existent Teleostean fishes.* " The Effects of Extirpation of the Suprarenal Bodies of tl Eel ( .
Anguillacwguilla ) .
" By Swale Vincent , M.B. ( Lond. British Medical Association Research Scholar .
Con municated by Professor E. A. Schafer , E.R.S. Receive February 3 , \#151 ; Read February 10 , 1898 .
( From the Physiological Laboratory , University College , London .
) Since an extract obtained from the suprarenal bodies of Tele ostean fishes produces no rise of blood-pressure when injeete into the blood-vessels of a living mammal , f and since the extrac produces no physiological effects when injected subcutaneously , \#163 ; and moreover , contains no chromogen , itS seems clear that these body ; contain nothing corresponding to the medulla of the suprarena capsules of the higher vertebrata .
S These results entirely corroborate( the opinion previously entertained from morphological and histo logical considerations , that the suprarenal gland of Teleostean fish ; consists entirely of cortex .
|| Now all we know about the functions of the suprarenal capsules is confined to the medulla , and although the cortex bears every appear- * * * S * There may of course be some gland or tissue somewhere in the body which pours into the blood-stream a substance having the same physiological action as that which can be extracted from mammalian medulla , but unless this were a definite gland , and possessed a recognisable histological structure , we could not reasonablj call it suprarenal medulla .
t Swale Vincent , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 61 , p. 68 .
J Swale Vincent , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p. 177 .
S B. Moore and Swale Vincent , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 62 , p. 280 . !
| Swale Vincent , ' Anat .
Anz .
, ' vol. 14 , No. 5 , 1897 , p. 152 ; see also J. ^ Oliver and Schafer , ' Journ. of Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , No. 3 , 1895 , p. 269 ; Swale Vincent , ' Journ of Physiol. , ' vol. 22 ( Nos. 1 and 2 ) , Sept. 1 , 1897 , p. 119 .

