]\gt ; Prof. J. J. Thomson .
[ June 20 , From this we get the ratio of the torsional rigidity of the spider line to that of the silk fibre to be 1 : 710 .
The diameters of the fibres were microscopically measured , and gave the following values:\mdash ; Silk fibre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
cm .
Spider line. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, , If the elastic qualities of these fibres were the same , the ratio of the torsional rigidity would have come out ( 28 ) , or 1 : 112 ; and hence the torsional rigidity of spider line is less than one-sixth of that of silk fibre of the same thickness .
The above result gives us only a relativs value of the rigidities between the two fibres .
If we take the mean value of the torsional rigidity of silk fibre to be C.G.S. on a length of 1 centimetre ( not per square centimetre ) , as found by Mr. T. Gray , torsional rigidity of the spider fibre of above experiment will be C.G.S. , the mode of bein the same .
Mr. Gray 's silk fibre may have had a slightly higher ligidity , as he states that it was boiled in water , while the fibre of the experiment jusb described was taken from those boiled in dilute potash water , as is the usual practice of preparing " " mawata which is a very soft kind of silk .
IV .
" " Specific Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics when acted on by very rapidly alternating Electric Forces By J. J. THOMSON , M.A. , F.R.S. , Cavendish Professor of Physics , Cambridge .
Received June 17 , 1889 .
researches of Dr. John ffopkinson have shown that in some dielectrics , of which the most conspicuous example is glass , the refractive index is not , as it ought to be on Maxwell 's theory , equal to the square root of the specific inductive capacity , .
when the latter is measured for steady forces , or such as are reversed only a few thousand times a second .
It is therefore desirable to measure the inductive capacity under circumsbances which approach as nearly as possible to those which , according to Maxwell 's theory , occur when light passes through a dielectric .
This will be when the forces are reversed as rapidly as possible .
In the experiments the forces were reversed about 25,000,000 times per second .
The method consists in measuring the wave-length of the electrical vibrabions given out by a condenser plates in electrical connexion .
If is the capacity in electrostatic meastlre of the con* ' Phil. Mag 1887 .
1889 .
] Specific Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics .
293 denser , the coefficient of self-induction in electromagnetic measure of the circuit connecting the plates of the condcnser , the wave-length , if it is long compared with the of this circuit , equals Thus , if we can measure the wave-length of the vibra.tions executed by such a systcm , we can find the specific ductive capacity of dielectric .
For , if we determine the wave-length of the system first when the plates of the condenser separated by air , and then when they are separated by a slab of the dielectric whose specific inductive capacily we wish to measure , the ratio of the squares of the wave-lengths will be the ratio of the capacities of the condenser the two cases , and if we know this ratio we can deduce the specific induclive capacity of the dielectric interposed between the plates .
FIG. 1 .
The arrangement of the experiment was as follows:\mdash ; The condenser consisted of two cular zinc plates , AB , CD .
30 cm .
in diameter ; these supported on an ting stand , and the distance between them could be altered at pleasure .
To plates wires , , each about 25 cm .
in , terminating in the highly polished balls , , were tached .
The plates were also connected with the poles , of an induction coil , and when this was in action a succession of sparks passed between the balls and H. The periodic distributions of electricity thus produced over the plates sent electrical waves down two insulated wires , each about 20 metres in length , attached to the small zinc plates , and , placed close to the plates of the condenser .
The wave-length of the vibrations transmitted along the wire was deterlnined by the method I described in a formel paper Note on the Effect produced by Conductors in the Neighbourhood of a Wire on Prof. J. J. Thomson .
[ June 20 , the Rate of Propagation of Electrical Disturbances along it ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. 46 , p. .
Two wires B8 , , of equal length , had the ends and fastened to the poles of a spark micrometer , while the other ends , , could slide along the wires , MU respectively .
At first was placed at , and V was moved until the sparks in the micrometer were as small as possible ; suppose that a was the position of when this was the case .
and will be at the same potential .
The end was now kept fixed at , and moved until the sparks again became as faint as possible ; suppose that was the position of when this the case , then and , and therefore and , are at the same potential ; so that , since is a place of maximum potential , equals a wave-length .
By starting from and proceeding further up the wire we can get another determination of the wave-length .
Since from the nature of the case other conductors besides two disks were in the field , the capacity of the condenser was in excess of the value given by the formula , where is the area of one of the plates and the distance between them ; but this is the only part of the capacity which is increased when bhe slab of dielectric is interposed between the plates .
The capacity when the disks were 2 cm .
apart was determined by the tuning-fork method given in Maxwell 's Electricity and Magnetism vol. 2 , p. 385 , and was found to be 1889 .
] Specific of lectrics .
40 in electrostatic umits ; the formula would , where and , give 28 , so that of the 40 units of , 28 are dne to the two disks and 12 to the presence of the other conductors .
This was verified by determining by ths tuning-fork method the capacity of the condenser when the distance between the disks had a series of When the distance between the disks was 2 cm .
, the mean of several determinations of the wave-length along the wire was metres .
The valne calculated by tho formula 2 , lvhere and , where length of circuit ( supposed circular ) cm .
, and the diameter of the wire cm .
, is 8 metres .
When the plates separated by pieces of plate ss 2 cm .
thick , the wave-length was metres .
Thus , if is the specific inductive capacity of the glass , , and determination of the specific inductive capacity of the by the tuning-fork method was difficult , owing to electric absorption ; the values for obtained in this way varied between 9 and 11 .
We see , therefore , that for vibrntionswhose frequency is or per second , the specific inductive capacity is very nearly equal to the square of the refractive index , and is very mncb less than the for slow rates of reversals .
The discrepancy is probably due to the cause which produces the phenomenon of anomalous dispersion in some substances , and indicates the existence of molecular -ibrations having a period slower than 25.000,000 per second .
The behaviour of the glass under electrical oscillations of the Cl'itical would form a very interesting subject of tion .
The specific inductive capacity of ) was detel.mined in a similar tvay ; the wave-lengths , when the were separated by air and ebonite respectively , were and metrcs , g.iving ns the spccific inductive capacity of ebonite .
The value detcrmined by the tuning-fork method was The spccific inductive capacity of a plate made of melted stick sulphur was also tried : the wave-lcngth without the sulpul with ) it as the ecific inductive capncity of The value determined by the tuning-fork od .
Thus , for ebonite and sulphur the values dete by the two methods agree as well as could be expected , whilc for ) the results are altogether different .

