2 .
Exterieur au calorimletre et produisant un effet mecanique qui puisse etre assign .
Je suis encore arrete dans les conclusions a deduire de ce dernier travail , par suite de plusieurs anomalies , dont je no trouve l'explication par aucune des theories proposees .
11 .
Sir les chaleurs sp6cifiques des vapeurs sous diverses pressions .
J'ai soumis a ces recherches un tres grand nombre de vapeurs , mais en insistant plus specialement sir celles qui peuvent etre obtenues a l'etat de purete parfaite , et helas !
else no sont pas tres nombreuses .
La chaleur specifique que j'ai trouave a la vapeur d'eau sous la pression de l'atmosphere est 0'475 par rapport a l'eau liquid .
L'ensemble de ces recherches permettra de calculer numeriquement les effets mecaniques que l'on peut retirer theoriquement de 1 kil .
de charbon , suivant que l'on applique la chaleur a la production de la vapeur d'eau ou d'une autre vapeur , sous diverses pressions , a saturation ou sous detente , ou qu'on l'applique a un gaz quelconque a detente ou sous pression constant .
En un mot , j'espere que les resultats obtenus dans ces recherches permettront de resoudre enfin , avec quelque certitude , les questions qui divisent depuis si longtemps les ingenieurs , en menme temps qu'elle fourniront un grand nombre d'epreuves pour decider les diverses theories qui oat ete proposees pour la chaleur .
Je vous pry , mon cher Colonel , de donner lecture de cette lettre k la Societe Royale , et d'en demander l'insertion dans ses publications , si elle n'y trouve pas d'empechement .
J'ai l'honneur d'etre , Votre devoue serviteur , V. REGNAULT .
2 .
Extract from a letter from M. Kamtz addressed to Colonel Sabine ( Translation):-Received April 10 , 1853 .
Dorpat , 15th March ( N. Style ) , 1853 .
I have just completed the memoir on terrestrial magnetism which I mentioned to you in former letters .
It would follow from the materials which I have employed , that the horizontal force requires constants which differ from those for the vertical force , and the differences , although for the most part not considerable , are sometimes too large , as it appears to me , to be overlooked : it is for observers to decide in this matter .
To avoid the introduction of insecure numbers I have not computed the potential , but lave contented myself with deriving the values of X , Y and Z ( declination , inclination , and force horizontal and total ) being the quantities principally used for comparison .
A second calculation of the constants for X and Y would have given rather more exact values , but I think that with the existing data the result would scarcely repay the labour of so extensive a calculation , for the tables would have to be entirely recomputed .
After obtaining the data from the theory , I wished to compare them with observation .
I could take for the inclination and force the values which had served as the bases of the calculation ; there are indeed several observations of inclination without our knowing the force , and a few of the force without inclination ; but on the other hand , there are more extensive districts where I had no declinations , although the other two elements were well determined .
Under these circumstances I was obliged to have recourse to older observations , which indeed I had occasion to use also for secular change and reduction for epoch to 1830 .
Thus the character of the work wasgradually modified .
For the Atlantic Ocean I availed myself of your excellent Memoir , Contributions No. IX .
; I only added the observations of Liitke , d'Urville , and Rumker ; of older observations , I took those of Abercrombie and Ekeberg , only using them however in parts where they had observed the inclination , and principally with the view of finding its secular change .
In the Pacific there was more deficiency ; with the exception of what has been furnished by L ; itke , d'Urville , the ships of the Prussian Merchant Service , and in the neighbourhood of the magnetic equator by Duperrey , modern voyages scarcely gave me anything ; for Becquerel , in his detailed table* , omits all determinations made at sea I therefore took all I could get since the voyages of Byron , Carteret and Wallis , chiefly from -Hansteen 's great work , and reduced to 1830 , taking from each observer the mean of all his determinations within a space of 5 ?
lat. and 10 ?
long .
I did not allow myself to exclude any observer , for as all have errors from the ship 's iron , it might easily happen that a man but little known may have given values which are much nearer to the truth than those given by a celebrated voyager .
A selection is no less objectionable , jas it might easily lead to retaining observations which accord with a possibly not altogether correct theory , and omitting others , otherwise good , which might depart from it .
Moreover , such a full comparison shows better what may be expected from the observations : incomplete as are the data they afford , yet , when I arrange the remaining errors in latitude and longitude , I rarely find groups in which the errors show a certain degree of systematic character over extensive districts , so as to alter the declination or inclination a degree .
The inclination appears to me to be very incorrect in the meridian of Alexandria .
In India the few results of Elliot 's given in the Phil. Mag. , from the Proceedings of the Royal Society , accord extremely well with my.calculations .
I subjoin a few points of comparison:-- ; .
North Pole in 70 ?
' N. , 263 ?
37 !
E. Rost 's observations give 70 ? ?
5 ' N. , 263 ? ?
14 ' E. For .
the South Pole , 74 ? ?
6t S. , 152 ? ?
47f E. seems to agree less closelyy with Ross 's map , although the inclinations : observed in the neighbourhood agree wellwith the calculated ones .
/ X Maximunim of total force in the northern hemisphere 1871'8 in 54 21 N. 265 53 E. ( Error compared with Lefroy 's observations ... ... +6'4 in 54 1 N. 260 1 E. +0-8 in 55 6 N. 267 4E .
; -+4-6 in 50 2 N. 264 0 E. ) For the force in the southern hemisphere , 2027'6 in 640 36 ' S. , 1440 34 !
E. is perhaps less correct , but there are in the S. hemisphere some striking anomalies in the observations .
The probable error of the force is 19'1 ; if however some groups which are at any rate not very correct are omitted , it becomes a little less than 15 .
For the inclination , 31 ' ; for the declination , 41'3 .
I have gained my principal object in the work by becoming myself better informed , but I have thought it might perhaps not be wholly useless to others if only to stimulate travellers to make observations for comparison , and I have therefore been at the pains of writing out the table of comparisons ( a task more irksome than that of calculation ) .
But to publish is very difficult ; on such a subject , and under present political circumstances , no bookseller in Germany would undertake it .
The Admiralty at St. Petersburgh would perhaps print it in their Memoirs , but in the Russian language , in which it would be as good as buried ; I turn to you , asking whether it might not be possible to get it published in England , not as a separate work , for perhaps no bookseller would accept it , but in a collection of similar papers .
To me it would be most agreeable if it could appear either in the Reports of the British Association or in the Philosophical Transactions ; and by preference in the latter , because I have derived from thence the best part of my materials , besides which the first results have already appeared in the Proceedings of the Royal Society .
You.will be best able to judge for me ; I do not know what is the praetice of either of those bodies in regard to writings not by their .
own members .
My memoir is , I fear , long , but yet it consists chiefly of the table of comparisons .
Of maps , I give declination , inclination and total force , two of each ( Mercator and Polar ) .
Unluckily I have no translator here who understands the subject , 3o I could only uiake the attempt myself , and as the memnoir consists chiefly of figures from whence simple deductions are derived , there cannot be great errors ; in the rest pray make the needful alterationis where there are glaring , Germanisms , if you think it possible the whole may be printed .
If not , pray send me back the MSS .
at some future time , not for publication , but for my own use .
I finished yesterday , and send this week to the British Embassy only I repeat my prayer , t-at yU Will recve the work kindly ; and tell:me,.ift fate as , -son as.you~n can , How fat i:a .
aneed is the Magnetic Survey of jldia ?
ouldnoti you get tr , v !
ers- .
to obseree inEgypt , Nubia , Mesopotamia and Persia ?
In the Pacific we want observations , especial on Brmay b route : the number of facts known is too small for good inferences : we want , tests for Duperrey 's .
and Frevcinet 's Di)ps , ; which at neighboring points differ 3 ?
or 40 .
Of Elliot 's I know only the results talken , oma.te , ; .Pro eedingS of the .
Royal : Soceety KI upffer ha , , I see , :a cop of the-orkitself from the ihi Trians,.as not R.al made obseiva tionons o his journeys , da ; is : anythi g inted ?
the same queltioi at to 11 the ipeditions i seareh of Franlin ?

