254 Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey on the [ Feb. H body-cavity of the Planula .
It is only just before the escape of the actinuloid from its capsule that they evaginate themselves and become external .
After enjoying its free existence for one or two days , during which it moves about by the aid of its long arms , the embryo fixes itself by its proximal end , the long arms gradually disappear , the short permanent tentacles increase in number , and the essential form of the adult is soon acquired .
II .
" Some Particulars of the Transit of Yenus across the Sun , December 9 , 1874 , observed on the Himalaya Mountains , Mussoorie , at May-Villa Station , Lat. 30 ' 28f N. , Long. 78 ' 3 ; E. , Height above Sea 6765 feet."\#151 ; Note No. I. By J. B. N. Hennessey , E.R.A.S. Communicated by Prof. Stokes , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received January 2 , 1875 .
May Villa , 9th December , 1874 .
Naturally sharing in the great interest excited by the transit of Venus , which occurred this forenoon , I proposed that I should observe the event with the equatoreal of the Royal Society , which Capt. J. Herschel , B.E. , in his absence from India , had temporarily placed at my disposal ; and the project meeting with liberal support from Col. J. T. Walker , R.E. , Superintendent , Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , I was enabled , through his kindness , to provide myself with four chronometers , a good altazimuth , a barometer , thermometers , and other articles of equipment necessary for the undertaking .
My especial object in view was to observe the transit from a considerable heigand this condition was easily secured through the circumstance that I was located only 14 miles from Mussoorie , on the Himalaya Mountains .
No doubt a station on these mountains would be very liable to an envelope of mist and cloud at the time of year in question ; but , on the other hand , were really good weather to prevail , I should enjoy the advantages of an exquisitely clear atmosphere , such as I have never experienced save on the Himalayas .
Add to this , the journey , as already stated , was merely an ordinary ride , \#174 ; e necessary equipment for my purpose was at hand , and though failure would involve a waste of no inconsiderable preliminary labour , this lawjp I was willing to incur if need be .
Arguing thus , I selected a station some 6500 feet above the sea , and proceeded to find my latitude , longitude , \#174 ; height , to observe for time , and to rate my chronometers .
My numerijW results will be communicated very shortly in a second note .
The remarks here made are restricted chiefly to what I saw with the equatoreal .
The telescope of the equatoreal has a 5-inch object-glass , with abo\#174 ; 60 inches focal length , and is driven by an excellent clock .
The eye-*\#174 ; \#174 ; may be fitted at will with an eyepiece of 55 , 85,125,200 , or 300 powfifj $75 .
] Transit of Venus across the Sun .
255 i with a spectroscope mounting a single simple prism .
The polar axis ay be shifted for latitude .
The equatoreal was set up and adjusted an observatory-tent , of which the canvas top was removed during .servation .
I found from actual trial that the most suitable eyepiece for both gress ( sun 's altitude 2 ' 24 ' to 7 ' 29 ' ) and egress ( sun 's altitude about 5 ' ) was that of 125 power ; accordingly this eyepiece alone was employed the contacts .
It was , however , impossible to adopt the same dark glass r both the higher and lower altitudes , without sacrificing definition on le of the two occasions .
Accordingly I selected for ingress two glasses bich , combined , gave a neutral or bluish field ; and for egress I changed le of these for a deep-red glass , so that the field now presented a mode-itely deep red .
The glasses were quite flat , and lay against one another i intimate contact , giving excellent definition .
I may here add that , tanks to Manrakan , artificer , Gr .
T. Survey , the clock behaved with per-ct regularity ; nor was there the smallest instrumental disappointment iroughout the work .
As regards procedure during transit , my friend [ r. W. H. Cole , M.A. , counted seconds audibly from the journeyman ironometer placed before him ; while Baboo Cally Mohun Ghose , com-ater , took up a position by my side , noting down such remarks as the benomena , viewed through the equatoreal , elicited from me .
Nor , as e stood informed , were the events to be recorded few in number .
At , \gt ; r instance , ingress , internal contact , the light between the cusps was \gt ; vary suddenly ; the cusps were to meet .
Then came " the pear-drop , " the ligament ; " what should be its length , what its breadth in terms of enus 's diameter , what its shape ?
when would it break ?
and , lastly , which \#163 ; the known descriptions would it resemble ?
Primed on these points , e settled on a programme which should include them all , and time after me we went through the necessary rehearsals for perfecting ourselves in ar parts .
So much for what we had to expect , and now for a few words u the weather .
I moved up to my mountain-station on the afternoon of December 1 .
he day following I was busy fixing my station , adjusting instruments , ic. IJp to this the sky had been sufficiently clear ; but from the 3rd here set in an alternation of weather , which , without running into xtremes , kept me in a state of miserable suspense , to say nothing of the dditional watching and toil in observing for time .
This state of affairs ppeared drawing to a climax , when the 8th December arrived , and the louds looked blacker , while the mist , which generally precedes snowfalls iere , began as usual to settle down on the internal and still more lofty anges of hills .
About 2 p.m. on this day there were a few drops of rain \gt ; r sleet , so few that they might almost have been counted ; and later on , ts the sun began to set , the heavy cumuli evolved themselves into strati , which , spreading their even canopy over us , left something like decimal 0 \gt ; f sky visible ; and this at 10 O'clock at night !
At 4 next morning , Dec. 9 , Mr. J. B. N. Hennessey the [ peb .
\\ when again reported on , the sky was without speck or cloud ; the air was still , and so clear , so brilliantly clear , that even the most exacting of observers could not have desired more favourable circumstances for viewing the coming transit .
In brief , I enjoyed most exquisitely clear weather during my observations\#151 ; such weather as occurs not frequently even at Mussoorie .
I now proceed to describe the phenomena of the transit .
In doing so I shall have occasion to speak of Venus as she appeared across the sun 's limb , when one portion of her own limb is seen against the sun , and the other remains against the sky .
The former portion I shall call Venus 's sun-limb , or Un , the latter Venus 's sky-limb , or Vk .
Again , I shall require to mention a ring of light around Vk , which I shall indicate by Lk , the corresponding ring around Un being understood by Ln .
Another point is this : any one who has watched , say the sun 's limb , especially at a low altitude and with high power , must be aware of the turmoil or ebullition which there appears , very much as if the limb was being boiled .
I shall denote this kind of turmoil by " boiling .
" Ingress.\#151 ; With the telescope well and carefully adjusted for focus , I watched for the coming first external contact , but to no purpose ; for I did not detect Venus 's limb until after it had made an indentation on the sun 's limb .
The latter boiled sensibly , but by no means violently .
It appeared jagged , and as if with minute spikes projecting inwards , all of which were well defined in the bluish field .
Watching V " , I found it also boiling slightly , but in a manner somewhat different to the sun 's limb .
The appearance was that of boiling vapour coming round from the face of Venus , turned towards the sun and overlapping Un ; moreover this boiling was not restricted to the edge of Un , but extended 2 " or 3 " beyond , thus forming a kind of boiling annulus* , in which there were minute sparkling specks dancing and shifting about , appearing and disappearing ; the edge Un was seen through the boiling .
So much for that portion of Venus seen against the sun .
Ingress ( continued).\#151 ; At 8| minutes before the first internal contact took place , I happened to look closely into the spot where that part of Venus against the sky lay ; and , to my great surprise , I found that this portion of her disk was easily visible , because it was edged by a narrow ring of light , or Lk .
At first I saw 1^ for only about 10 ' or 15 ' on either side of the point where the chord of Venus 's track would cut Vk\#151 ; or , more definitely stated , this light-ring did not reach either way to the suns limb ; but within the next 50s I saw the ring distinctly round the whole sector of Vk , from edge to edge of the sun 's limb , as shown in the rough sketch 'f ' accompanying .
The light-ring was only moderately bright , hl|6 * This cannot be shown in the sketch accompanying , for its presence became visible chiefly through the movements taking place .
t I must apologize for the roughness of my sketch .
I am , however , writing agains time to catch the outgoing mail ; and of drawing-materials I possess nothing more at 185 .
] Transit of Venus across the Sun .
_ [ iised light ; and at first I estimated this annulus at 3 " in breadth .
It u a probably brightest about the point where the chord above named cut Ingress .
ie annular ring of light could be distinguished , in continuation , around the limb on the sun ; but as this continuation was rendered visible chiefly by the movements taking place in it , it is necessarily absent here .
v At 6m before first internal contact , I estimated Lk at 4 " in breadth ; dthe same time my notes contain the remark , " definition excellent .
" Y3m 24s before first internal contact I remarked , " light-ring quite rl inct ; " and lm 16s later I stated , " light-ring quite bright .
" Indeed \lt ; 1 annulus 1^ was so plain that , after recording the time of transit for tl dark edge Yk , I even made a conjectural record as to the time when il bright edge ( Lk ) transited across the sun 's limb .
Of course this latter ornate was based on recollection of the width of Lk , and not on any hie fact ; for as Lk came on the sun 's disk , the lesser light of the former Wged into the greater light of the latter .
On the whole , I am of opi-that Lk was between 2 " and less than 4 " in breadth .
rngress ( continued).\#151 ; " And now for ' the pear-drop , ' ' the ligament/ I mentally exclaimed , as I watched the following limb of Venus Mch had just transited .
From what has been stated it will be seen that \#187 ; Vk passed onwards from the sun 's limb , it was followed immediately l visibly by the light-ring Lk ; so that , unless Venus suddenly shot blcwards across this ring of light , there could be no " pear-drop " and no " gament .
" Fully expecting this retrogression , I still watched intently b the event , while my friend Mr. Cole went on deliberately enumera-g seconds amid the complete silence enforced on all others around ; Psent than the stump of a broken blacklead pencil and a blue-red carpenter s pencil , ibetter sketch will be forwarded hereafter .
[ A woodcut of the better sketch will aompany Note No. 2.\#151 ; G. G. S. ] 258 On the Transit of Venus across the Sun .
[ Feb. 1 but I watched for any such event in vain .
Venus glided resolutely \lt ; y wards , and the streak of light she was leaving behind grew wider and st : wider , until at last , when a belt of light representing 10 or 15 minutes li between her and the sun 's limb , I exclaimed ( and I believe much to tl disappointment of all concerned ) , " there is no pear-drop and no ligamen\ We watched Venus for some half an hour after this , and then turned the spectroscope .
The Spectroscope.\#151 ; The substitution of spectroscope for eyepiece cann be effected in this instrument without a considerable amount of adjue ment .
When this had been performed , and we had taken a hasty brea fast , I first placed the slit across the centre of Venus 's disk , and found th .
it gave a black band all along the length of the bright solar spectrui i. e. Venus 's face turned to us reflected no light .
I next placed the si tangential to Venus 's disk .
This gave a faint glimmer of narrow light place of the black band , i. e. this glimmer was slightly brighter than tl solar spectrum on which it appeared .
I looked intently for Venus 's ai lines ; but , so far as the feeble dispersion of the prism would show , tl lines seen across the glimmer from Venus 's edge were identical in i respects with the solar lines .
I repeated these experiments as long time permitted , and then , with artificer Manrakan 's help , revert-to the adjustments for mounting the eye-end and eyepiece employed ingress .
As already stated , it was now necessary to substitute a dar red glass in place of one of those used at ingress .
Egress.\#151 ; The field now was red , and , if any thing , slightly too dark show faint light ; the definition was intensely sharp .
Again I watch with the utmost care as Venus approached her second internal contac but neither pear-drop nor ligament , nor any other or shado appeared between her limb and that of the , until at last the two fair touched* .
Of course I again looked for the light-ring around Venui sky-limb ; and I certainly saw it , though faintly , 5m after the above co : tact .
Some time later , when I once more searched for the light-ring , was invisible , nor did I again see it , nor yet the disk of Venus , again the sky .
Before concluding this note , I take the liberty of adding a few wore of no little importance , from the only letter on the transit which has yet reached me .
It is from Colonel Walker , who was at Dehra Boon , the valley below , some 10 miles south of my position , and at a height about 2200 feet .
He observed the phenomena of the transit with very tolerable telescope , by Solomons ( I believe ) , of , I fancy , son 3-inch object-glass , and perhaps 3^ feet focal length .
The Cop8\#174 ; writes , " We saw the pear-drop and the ligament very distinctly .
| I conclude from what has preceded that:\#151 ; * My notes state successively that when the two limbs were apart -J , $ , i\gt ; tV\#187 ; 8 war of Venus 's diameter , there was no ligament or other connexion between them* 85 .
] On White Lines in the Solar Spectrum .
259 i)In view of the light-ring Lk , and of the peculiar boiling annulus .\lt ; nd In , which may be called Ln , I have no doubt that Ln was , in fact , j* atinuation of the light-ring Lk , which latter , beyond question , was \#166 ; ..lily visible ; and under these circumstances it may be urged that y Vmsis surrounded by an atmosphere which at the time was made visible \gt ; toae extent of 2 " to under 4 " in breadth .
' ) As a matter of fact , the pear-drop and the ligament were visible at a heht of 2200 feet , but at 6500 feet the ligament was invisible .
The \lt ; .-iience generally of height of station , from this evidence , appears undent t ie ; but the phenomenon still remains to be accounted for definitely , i lowever , an effective atmosphere of breadth around Yenus be conoid , this atmosphere may be supposed to stop a certain amount of dint light from the sun , producing a slight shade around Yenus corre-o riding to the breadth x , This shade would , I conceive , be quite in vista when its outer edge is backed by the sun 's bright light ; but could - v jontract the sun to a diameter equal to that of Yenus plus twice x , mmake Yenus and the sun concentric , it appears likely that we should sea shaded annulus right round Yenus between her limb and that of the st ; further , that the annulus would appear darker at low than at mer altitudes , and would become invisible when the observer was raed above a sufficiency ofr the earth 's atmosphere .
Should these sigestions prove tenable , the ligament seen would break when the \gt ; er edge of the shade , corresponding to x , transited across the sun 's fib .
3 ) Solar light shining through Yenus 's atmosphere , if any , produces .alteration in the lines of the solar spectrum , so far as the dispersion o t single simple prism can show .
Also Yenus 's face , turned towards a reflects no light during transit , subject to the same instrumental test .
Night of 10th Dec. , 1874 .
1 .
" Appendix to Note , dated November 1873 , on White Lines in the Solar Spectrum/ ' By J. B. N. Hennessey , F.R.A.S. Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received January 11 , 1875 .
Ifter detection of the white lines 1650 and 1658 ( KirchhofPs scale ) at 'issoorie in November 1873 , I discovered two other such lines before .'ring that station of observation , viz. 2009 and 2068 ( about ) .
On -:h November , 1873 , I packed up the spectroscope , taking particular ce that the prisms should not shift from the position they then c:upied .
On 28th November , 1873 , I set up the spectroscope in the Dome ( iservatory at Dehra , in the valley below , the prisms retaining their f mer position , and my recollection of the white lines seen at Mussoorie

