132 Dr. C. A. MacMunn .
On Colouring-matters [ Apr. 5 , In S 5 is studied the ease of induced currents .
Since any disturbance in the field ( however arbitrary ) can be expressed , as regards the time , by a series of simple harmonic terms , it is sufficient to consider the case when the variations in the inducing system follow the simple harmonic law .
This case has , moreover , acquired a special interest since the invention of the telephone .
The two extreme cases , where the period of the variation in the field is very large or very small in comparison with the time of decay of free currents in the sphere , are discussed in some detail .
In S 6 the case of a thin spherical shell is briefly examined .
I next proceed to investigate what modifications must be introduced into the methods and the results of the preceding sections when the substance of the sphere is susceptible of magnetisation .
This occupies SS7 , 8 , 9 , 10 .
In the remaining sections of the paper I investigate the solution of our fundamental equations , taking account of the finite value of v. The corrections to our former results are of most interest in the solutions of the second type .
Although the preceding theory , based on the assumption v=oo , is sufficient for all purposes of comparison with experiment , there are certain processes of ( at all events ) theoretical interest of which it fails altogether to give an account , viz. , all those cases in which any change in the superficial electrification of the sphere takes place .
For the expression of these the solutions of the second type are appropriate .
There is no difficulty in working out the requisite formulae , but in the application to the case of free motion a difficulty of interpretation arises , which is noticed in the proper place .
III .
" Observations on the Colouring-matters of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , on those of the Bile of Vertebrates , and on some unusual Urine Pigments , \amp ; c. " By Charles A. MacMunn , B.A. , M.D. Communicated by Dr. M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received March 8 , 1883 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the result of a systematic examination of the bile and various extracts of the livers of Mollusca and Arthropoda , and of the pyloric or radial cseca and other appendages of the digestive system of Echinodermata is described .
The universal distribution of one colouring-matter , which by appropriate experiments is1 shown to be a chlorophyll pigment , is proved .
It occurs in the above organs and can be detected in the bile of specimens of Helix after a six months ' fast ; 1883 .
] of the so-called Bile of Invertebrates , 8fC .
for this colouring-matter , since it is found in the appendages of the enteron , the name enterochlorophyll is proposed .
The slight differences observable in different cases are shown to be due to the probable greater or less amount of the usual chlorophyll constituents\#151 ; blue chlorophyll , yellow chlorophyll , and chlorofucine , \#151 ; and the presence of xanthophyll , lutein or tetronerythrin .
Enterochlorophyll is shown to be much more abundant in the livers of Mollusca and in Echinoder-mata than in Crustacea , as the livers of the last generally contain more lutein , or sometimes tetronerythrin .
The presence of reduced hsernatin is also demonstrated in the bile of the crayfish and in several pulmonate Mollusca , and its respiratory and other uses discussed .
The conclusions which these observations and others led to are summed up as follows:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The existence of enterochlorophyll in the so-called liver , or other appendages of the enteron in Invertebrates is definitely established . . . .
( 2 .
) This pigment occurs in greatest abundance in Mollusca , it occurs less frequently in Arthropoda , and its presence in Vermes is not proved .
( 3 .
) The pyloric caeca of starfishes contain it in great abundance , also the intestinal appendages of E , which fact shows that the former function like the so-called liver of other Invertebrates .
\#166 ; ( 4 .
) The bile of the crayfish and that of pulmonate Mollusca contains hsemochromogen ; in the latter it is generally accompanied by enterochlorophyll , and appears to be concerned more in aerial than aquatic respiration .
( 5 .
) The so-called liver of Invertebrates is a pigment-producing and storing organ , as well as being concerned in the preparation of a digestive ferment .
( 6 .
) The presence of hsemochromogen in the bile of Invertebrates is apparently determined by their mode of living ; and it does not appear to be distributed according to purely morphological considerations .
The remainder of the paper deals with vertebrate bile pigments , and contains some observations on abnormal urinary colouring-matters mainly with regard to their spectroscopy .
The various bile pigments of Stadeler are first dealt with , and some remarks on the bile spectra of animals follow ; here it is shown that urobilin can be extracted from the liver of Salamandra maculata by means of alcohol , that it is absent from reptilian bile during hibernation , and that the liver of fishes may contain tetronerythrin which can be extracted from it by suitable solvents .
The latter fact suggests an analogous function to that of the liver of Invertebrata .
The results of the examination of a green hydrocele liquid are 134 On the Colouring-matters of Bile of Invertebrates .
[ Apr. 5 , detailed , which showed beyond doubt that biliverdin was present and since m that case its origin could be traced to blood pigment ' the origin of biliverdin from blood pigment is demonstrated .
The identity of stercobilin and hydrobilirubin got by the action of nascent hydrogen on bilirubin is proved , and a difference between them and febrile urobilin shown to exist .
The statement that the absorption bands of sheep bile are the same as those which occur in Gmelin 's reaction is shown to be erroneous , and a brief description of the method of isolating the colouring-matter of sheep bile and the wave-lengths of its different solutions given .
Chlo-rophyll is shown to be absent .
Under the head of urinary pigments , it is shown that the feeble bands described by me in a former paper in the spectrum of febrile urobilin are not due to impurities , but are as much part of the spectrum as the band at F. Uroheematin , and its difference from hsematoporphyrin and its pathological significance are discussed .
A simple method for the detection of indican in urine , some remarks on uroerythrin , on a peculiar red colouring-matter in pale urine , somewhat like urrhodin , follow .
The deductions from this part of the paper cannot be very well given in the form of conclusions , and are therefore scattered throughout the paper .
A drawing of the microscopic structure of the liver of IAmax , showing the enterochlorophyll within the liver cells , and maps of the most important absorption spectra described , accompany the paper .
All readings are reduced to wave-lengths .

