112 Dr. F. M. Balfour and Mr. W. N. Parker .
'[Dec .
8 , the size of the mandibular suspensorium ; the basi-hjal is very large , is composed of two parallel pieces , and is very Brief and imperfect as this " Abstract " is , I trust it is sufficient to show the extremely interesting and suggestive nature of this type ; anyhow , no clear understanding of the morphology of this type of skull can be had unless it be seen in the light derived from that of the Elasmobranchs , the Sturgeon , and the Anurous larva on one hand , and that of Amiacalva and the Teleostei on the other .
III .
" On the Structure and Development of Lepidosteus .
" By F. M. Balfour , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and W. N. Parker .
Received November 24 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) The authors commence this paper by thanking Professor Alexander Agassiz for the material , both embryological and adult , on which these researches were made .
The first section is devoted to the general development .
In this .section an account is given of the structure of the ripe ovum , of the segmentation , of the history of the germinal layers , of the first development of the principal organs , and of the external features of the embryo during embryonic and larval life .
The more important points established in this section , are\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The ovum when laid is invested by a double covering formed of ( a. ) a thick inner membrane , the outer zone of which is radially striated , and ( \amp ; ) an outer layer made up of highly refractive pyriform bodies which are probably metamorphosed follicular epithelial cells .
( 2 .
) The segmentation is complete , though very unequal ; the lower pole being very slightly divided into segments , and its constituent parts subsequently fusing together to form an unsegmented mass of yolk , like the yolk-mass of Teleostei .
( 3 .
) The epiblast is divided into an epidermic and a nervous stratum , as in Teleostei .
( 4 .
) The walls of the brain , of the spinal cord , and of the optic vesicles are formed from a solid medullary keel , like that found in Teleostei .
( 5 .
) The lens , the auditory vesicle , and the olfactory pit , are wholly .developed from the nervous layer of the epidermis .
( 6 .
) The segmental or archinephric duct is developed , as in Teleostei , from a hollow ridge of the somatic mesoblast , which becomes constricted off , except in front ; thus forming a duct with an anterior pore leading into the body cavity .
1881 .
] On the Structure and Development of Lepidosteus .
113 The section on the general development , is followed by a series of sections on the adult anatomy and development of various organs .
The Brain .
The authors give a fuller description of the adult brain than previous anatomists .
The new features in this description are ( 1 ) that the parts identified by previous anatomists as the olfactory lobes , are really parts of the cerebral hemispheres ; the true olfactory lobes being small prominences at the base of the olfactory nerves ; ( 2 ) that there is attached to the roof of the thalamencephalon a peculiar vesicle , which has not hitherto been noticed , but which is similar to the vesicle found by Wiedersheim on the roof of the thalamencephalon of Protopterus .
They further show that the cerebrum is divided into a posterior portion , with an unpaired ventricle , and an anterior portion in which the ventricle is paired .
They consider the presence of a portion of the cerebrum with an unpaired ventricle , to be an indication that this part of the brain retains characters which are only found in the embryonic brain of other groups .
They point to the presence of lobi inferiores on the infundibulum , of tori semicirculares in the midbrain , and of a large cerebellum as indications of an affinity between the brain of Lepidosteus and that of Teleostei .
In the embryological section full details are given as to the development of the thalamencephalon , the pineal gland , the cerebrum , and the olfactory lobes .
At the end of the section the characters and affinities of the Ganoid brain are dealt with at some length ; and the authors attempt to show that brains of Ganoids are distinguished ( 1 ) by the large size of the thalamencephalon , and ( 2 ) by the cerebrum being divided into an unpaired portion behind and a paired portion in front .
Organs of Special Sense .
Olfactory Sacs.\#151 ; An account is given of the development of the olfactory sacs , in which these sacs are shown to originate as invaginations of the nervous layer of the epiblast ; the communication between the sacs and the exterior being effected by the rupture or absorption of the superficial epidermic layer of the epiblast .
The double opening of these sacs in the adult is described as arising from the division of the primitive single opening .
The olfactory nerve arises as an outgrowth of the brain prior to the first differentiation of the olfactoiy bulb as a special lobe of the brain .
Eye.\#151 ; In the adult eye a vascular membrane is described bounding the retinal aspect of the vitreous humour .
This membrane is supplied by an artery piercing the retina close to the optic nerve , and the veins from it fall into a circular vessel placed at the insertion of the iris .
The membrane itself is composed of a hyaline ground substance with numerous nuclei .
Dr. F. M. Balfour and Mr. W. N. Parker .
[ Dec. 8 , .
In the developmental section devoted to the eye the main subject dealt with is the nature of the mesoblastic structures entering the cavity of the optic cup , through the choroid slit .
It is shown that a large non-vascular mesoblastic process first enters the optic cup , and that together with the folded edge of the choroid slit it forms a rudimentary and provisional processus falciformis .
At a later period an artery , bound up in the same sheath as the optic nerve , enters the optic cup , and the vascular membrane found in the adult then becomes developed .
The Suctorial Dish .
The structure of a peculiar larval suctorial organ , placed at the end of the snout , is described , and the organ is shown to be formed of papillae composed of elongated epidermic cells , which are probably glandular ( modified mucous cells ) , and pour out a viscid secretion .
Muscular System .
The lateral muscles of Lepidosteus are shown to differ from those of other fishes , except the Cyclostomata , in not being divided into* a dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral group , on each side of the body .
Vertebral Column and Bibs .
This section of the paper commences with a description of the vertebral column and ribs of the adult .
In this part special attention is called to a series of cartilaginous elements , placed immediately below the ligamentum longitudinale superius , which appear to have escaped the notice of the anatomists who have previously worked at Lepidosteus .
These elements are shown to be intervertebrally situated .
With reference to the ribs the authors point out that for the greater part of their length they course along the bases of the intermuscular septa , immediately external to the peritoneal membrane , but that their free extremities bend outwards and penetrate between the muscles along the intermuscular septa till they nearly reach the skin .
In the embryological part of this section a detailed account is given of the development of the vertebral column , of which the following is a summary:\#151 ; .
There is early formed round the notochord a mesoblastic investment which is produced into two dorsal and two ventral ridges , the former uniting above the spinal cord .
Around the cuticular sheath of the notochord , an elastic membrane , the membrana elastica externa , is next developed .
The neural ridges become enlarged at each inter-muscular septum , and these enlargements soon become converted into cartilage , thus forming a series of neural processes , riding on the membrana elastica externa , and extending about two-thirds of the 1881 .
] On the Structure and Development of Lepidosteus .
115 way up the sides of the spinal cord .
Haemal processes arise simultaneously with and in the same manner as the neural : they are small in the trunk , hut at the front end of the anal fin they suddenly enlarge and extend ventralwards .
Behind this point each succeeding pair of haemal processes becomes larger than the one in front , each process finally meeting its fellow below the caudal vein , thus forming a completely closed haemal arch .
These arches are , moreover , produced into long spines supporting the fin-rays of the caudal fin , which thus differs from the other unpaired fins in being supported by parts of the vertebral column , and not by separately formed skeletal elements .
In the next stage which the authors have had the opportunity of studying ( a larva of 5| centims. ) , a series of well-marked vertebral constrictions are to be seen in the notochord .
The sheath is now much thicker in the vertebral than in the intervertebral regions : this being due to a special differentiation of a superficial part of the sheath , which appears more granular than the remainder , and forms a cylinder in each vertebral region .
Between it and the gelatinous tissue of the notochord there remains a thin unmodified portion of the sheath , which is continuous with the intervertebral parts of the sheath .
The neural and haemal arches which are of course placed in the vertebral regions are now continuous with a cartilaginous tube embracing the intervertebral regions of the notochord , and continuous from one vertebra to the next .
A delicate layer of bone , developed in the perichondium , invests the cartilaginous neural arches , and this bone grows upwards so as to unite above with the osseous investment of separately developed bars of cartilage , which are directed obliquely backwards .
These bars , or dorsal processes , may be reckoned as parts of the neural arches .
Between the dorsal processes of the two sides are placed median rods of cartilage , which are developed separately from the true neural arches , and which constitute the median spinous elements of the adult .
Immediately below these rods is placed the ligamentum longitudinale superius .
There is now the commencement , not only in the tail , but also in the trunk , of a separation between the dorsal and ventral parts of the haemal arches where the latter pass ventralwards , on each side of the body cavity , along the lines of insertion of the intermuscular septa .
They are obviously the ribs of the adult , and there is no break of continuity of structure between the haemal arches of the tail and the ribs .
In the anterior part of the trunk , the ribs pass outwards along the intermuscular septa till they reach the epidermis .
Thus the ribs are originally continuous with the haemal processes .
Behind the region of the ventral caudal fin the two haemal processes merge into one , which is not perforated by a canal .
Each of the intervertebral rings of cartilage becomes eventually divided into two parts , which are converted into the adjacent faces 316 Dr. F. M. Balfour and Mr. W. N. Parker .
[ Dec. 8 .
of contiguous vertebra ; , the curved line where this will be effected being plainly marked out at a very early stage .
As these rings are formed originally by the spreading of the cartilage from the primitive neural and haemal processes , the intervertebral cartilages are clearly derived from the neural and haemal arches .
The intervertebral cartilages are thicker in the middle line than at their two ends .
In the latest stage examined ( 11 centims. long ) the vertebral constrictions of the notochord are rendered much less conspicuous by the intervertebral cartilages giving rise to marked intervertebral constrictions .
In the intervertebral regions the membrana elastica externa has become aborted at the posterior border of each vertebra , and the remaining part is considerably puckered transversely .
The inner sheath of the notochord is puckered longitudinally in the intervertebral regions .
The granular external layer of the sheath in the vertebral regions is less thick than in the last stage , and exhibits a faint radial striation .
Two closely approximated cartilaginous elements now form a keystone to each neural arch above ; these are directly differentiated from the ligamentum longitudinale superius , into which they merge above .
An osseous plate is formed on the outer side of each of these .
cartilages .
These plates are continuous with the lateral osseous bars of the neural arches , and give rise to the osseous part of the roof of the spinal canal of the adult .
Thus the greater part of the neural arches is formed by membrane bone .
The haemal arches are invested by a thick layer of bone , and there is also a continuous osseous investment round the vertebral portions of the notochord .
The intervertebral cartilages become penetrated by branched processes of bone .
The embryological part of this section is followed by a comparative part treated under three headings .
In the first of these the vertebral column of Lepidosteus is compared with that of other forms ; and it is pointed out that there are grave difficulties in the way of comparing the vertebras of Lepidosteus with those of the Urodela , in the fact that in Lepidosteus the intervertebral cartilages originate from the bases of the arches , while in the Urodela they are stated by Gotte to be thickenings of a special cartilaginous investment of the notochord , which would seem to be homologous with that cartilaginous sheath which is placed in Elasmobranchii and Dipnoi within the membrana elastica externa .
On the other hand , the development of the vertebras of Lepidosteus is shown to resemble in most features that of Teleostei , from which it mainly differs in the presence of intervertebral cartilaginous rings .
In the second section , devoted to the homologies of the ribs of Pisces , the conclusions arrived at are summed up as follows:\#151 ; The results of the authors ' researches appear to leave two alterna1881 .
] On the Structure and Development Lepidosteus .
117 tives as to the ribs of fishes .
One of these , which may be called Gotte 's view , may be thus stated:\#151 ; The haemal arches are homologous throughout the Pisces ; in Teleostei , Ganoidei , and Dipnoi the ribs , placed on the inner face of the body wall , are serially homologous with the ventral parts of the haemal arches of the tail ; in Elasmo-branchii , on the other hand , the ribs are neither serially homologous with the haemal arches of the tail , nor homologous with the ribs of Teleostei and Ganoidei , bat are outgrowths of the haemal processes into the space between the dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral muscles , and outgrowths which may perhaps have their homologies in Teleostei and Ganoids in certain accessory processes of the vertebrae .
The other view , which the authors are inclined to adopt , is as follows:\#151 ; The Teleostei , Ganoidei , Dipnoi , and Elasmobranchii are provided with homologous haemal arches , which are formed by the coalescence below the caudal vein of simple prolongations of the primitive haemal processes of the embryo .
The canal enclosed by the haemal arches can be demonstrated embryologically to be the aborted body cavity .
In the region of the trunk the haemal processes and their prolongations behave somewhat differently in the different types .
In Ganoids and Dipnoi , in which the most primitive arrangement is probably retained , the ribs are attached to the haemal processes , and are placed immediately without the peritoneal membrane , at the insertion of the intermuscular septa .
These ribs are in many instances ( Lepidosteus , Acipenser ) , and very probably in all , developed continuously with the haemal processes , and become subsequently segmented from them .
They are serially homologous with the ventral parts of the haemal arches of the tail , which , like them , are in many instances ( Ceratodus , Lepidosteus , Polypterus , and to some extent in Amia ) segmented off from the basal parts of the haemal arches .
In Teleostei the ribs have the same position and relations as those in Ganoids and Dipnoi , but their serial homology with the ventral parts of the haemal processes of the tail is often ( .
, the Salmon ) obscured by the anterior haemal arches those in the posterior part of the trunk ) being completed , not by the ribs , but by independent outgrowths of the basal parts of the haemal processes .
In Elasmobranchii a still further divergence from the primitive arrangement is present .
The ribs appear to have passed outwards , along the intermuscular septa , into the muscles ; and are placed between the dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral muscles ( a change of position of the ribs of the same nature is observable in Lepidosteus ) .
This change of position , combined probably with the secondary formation of a certain number of anterior haemal arches , similar to those in the Salmon , renders their serial homology with the ventral parts of the haemal processes of the tail far less clear than in other types ; and further proof 118 On the Structure and Development Lepidosteus .
[ Dec. 8 , is required before such homology can be considered as definitely established .
Under the third heading the skeletal elements supporting the fin-rays of the ventral lobe of the caudal fin of various types of fishes are compared and the following conclusions are arrived at .
( 1 .
) The ventral lobe of the tail-fin of Pisces differs from the other unpaired fins in the fact that its fin-rays are directly supported by spinous processes of certain of the haemal arches , instead of by in-dently developed interspinous bones .
( 2 .
) The presence or absence in the tail-fin of fin-rays , supported by haemal arches , may be used in deciding whether apparently diphycercal tail-fins are aborted or primitive .
Urogenital Organs .
With reference to the character of the adult urogenital organs , the authors show that for the female the descriptions of Muller and Hyrtl are substantially accurate , but that Hyrtl 's description of the generative ducts of the male is wholly incorrect .
They find that in the male the semen is transported from the testes by means of a series ( 40\#151 ; 50 ) of vasa efferentia , supported by the mesorchium .
In the neighbourhood of the kidney these vasa unite into a longitudinal canal , from which transverse trunks are given off , which become continuous with the uriniferous tubuli .
The semen is thus transported through the kidney into the kidney-duct ( segmental duct ) , and so to the exterior .
No trace of a duct homologous with the oviduct of the female was found in the male .
With reference to the development of the excretory system , the authors have established the following points :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the segmental ( archinephric ) duct is developed as in Teleostei .
( 2 .
) That a pronephros , resembling in the main that of Teleostei , is developed from the anterior end of the segmental duct .
But they find that the pronephric chambers , each containing a glomerulus , into which the coiled pronephric tubes open , are not , as in Teleostei , completely shut off from the body cavity , but remain in communication with it by two richly ciliated canals , one on each side of the body .
( 3 .
) The pronephros eventually undergoes atrophy .
( 4 .
) Some of the mesonephric tubes have peritoneal funnels in the larva .
( 5 .
) The ovarian sac continuous with the oviduct , is established by a fold of the peritoneal membrane , near the attachment of the mesovarium , uniting with the free edge of the ovarian ridge to form a canal , the inner wall of which is constituted by the ovarian ridge itself .
1881 .
] On a New Mineral found m the Island of Cyprus .
119 ( 6 ) The posterior part of the oviduct is not formed until the ovarian sac has become developed , and had not been developed in the oldest larva ( 11 centiras .
) the authors have succeeded in obtainin g. The Alimentary Canal and its Appendages .
In this section the authors give a detailed account of the topographical anatomy of the alimentary tract in the adult .
They have detected a small pancreas close to the bile-duct , and call special attention to a ventral mesentery passing from the posterior straight section of the intestine to the ventral wall of the body .
In the embryological part of the section a detailed account is given of the development ( 1 ) of the pancreas , which is described as arising us a dorsal diverticulum of the duodenum on a level with the opening of the bile-duct ; ( 2 ) of the yolk sac and vitelline duct ; ( 3 ) of the spiral valve , which first appears as a hollow fold in the wall of the intestine , taking a slightly spiral course , and eventually becoming converted into a simple spiral ridge .
The so-called hyoid gill , which the authors expected to find well developed in the larva , is shown not to be found even in the oldest larva the head of which was examined ( 26 millims. ) The last section of the paper is devoted to the consideration of the systematic position of Lepidosteus .
The Teleostean affinities of Lepidosteus are brought into prominence , but it is shown that Lepidosteus is nevertheless a true Ganoid .
The arguments used in this portion of the paper do not admit of being summarised .
IY .
" On a New Mineral found in the Island of Cyprus .
" By PAULUS F. REINSCH ( Erlangen ) .
Communicated by Professor Stokes , Sec. R.S. Received November 3 , 1881 .
In the western part of the Island of Cyprus I detected , during my journey in June this year , a peculiar mineral , very remarkable not only from its chemical composition but also from the large percentage of extremely well-preserved siliceous shells of microscopic Radiolaria .
The locality in this not much known part of Cyprus , * is situated between the village Chynussa and the mountains running in a north* In the fine map of Kiepert ( Berlin , '1878 ) this part of the island , in which the locality lies , is marked as " wooded hill country , unexplored .
" In all the reports of travellers through Cyprus before and after the British occupation I find no notice of this tract , which must have attracted the attention of passing travellers .
VOL. XXXIII .
K

