An Account of a Concave Achromatic Glass Lens , as adapted to the Wired Micrometer when applied to a Telescope , which has the property of increasing the magnifying power of the Telescope without increasing the diameter of the Micrometer Wires .
By GEORGE DOLLOND , F.R.S. 8yc .
Received February 19 , -Read February 27 , 1834 .
/ VHEN the application of any optical or other arrangement is found to be useful , a correct statement of the manner in which it became so is essentially requisite , in order that each person who may have had a share in bringing it forward may have his due proportion of the merit .
The achromatic lens which I have applied to the wired micrometer , and which has been found to produce such very considerable advantages to that instrument , arose out of a trial that was made at the suggestion of Professor BARLOW , for the purpose of improving the chromatic aberrations which affected the field of the eye-glasses applied to the telescope invented by that gentleman with a fluid correcting lens , and made by myself for the Royal Society .
The lens in question not being found so effective for his purpose as he expected , was laid aside .
It has now been introduced for my purpose , and is made , with some trifling variations , in accordance with his calculations .
The interposition of a concave lens between the object-glass and the eye-glass of a telescope has been generally known by opticians to produce an increase of the magnifying power , in proportion to its focal length and distance from the object-glass : also that a convex lens , if so applied , would diminish the power .
Except in the Huygenian eye-tube , I am not aware that either of these lenses have been so applied generally , it having been considered that their introduction would materially diminish the light proceeding from the object-glass of the telescope , and also , by deranging the aberrations , disturb the image .
In the lens I am now describing , these errors are very materially obviated , owing to its being constructed upon achromatic principles * , by which the magnifying power of the telescope is increased in a twofold ratio , without so much diminution of light as is produced by the introduction of a simple lens .
For example , if the eye-glasses in the original arrangement of the telescope gave 100 of magnifying power , the same eye-glasses with the new lens , if I may so term it ; will give 200 , and the light will be fully equal to that power if obtained by the usual means .
The field of view will also be considerably flattened .
Thus it will be seen that we have the advantage of using longer eye-glasses with an extension of power , whereby the wires or spiderwebs of the micrometer are not increased in diameter , a very essential advantage when observing minute double stars ; nor is the eye of the observer so much distressed as when the magnifying power is obtained by shortening the focal lengths of the eye-glasses .
The advantages of this improvement having been shown by the foregoing introduction , I will now proceed to give an account of the causes which led to its being applied to the micrometer , and the result of its application .
The Rev. W. R. DAWES of Ormskirk , a gentleman pursuing practical astronomy with great zeal and perseverance , and to whom the public are already much indebted for several valuable communications , being desirous of carrying his measurements , &amp;c. , of the double and revolving stars , to a greater extent than the powers of his micrometer then allowed , applied to me to construct for him an arrangement of eye-glasses that would increase the magnifying power of his telescope without increasing the apparent dianleter of the spiderwebs in his micrometer , or interfering with the mode of illumination .
Several combinations were tried without success , when it occurred to me that the achromatic concave lens , which had been decided by Mr. BARLOW to be of no use for his purpose , might accomplish what was required .
The result I will now state from a letter I soon after received from Mr. DAWES , to whose micrometer this improvement had been applied .
' Ormskirk , March 14 , 1833 .
" MY DEAR SIR , -YOU will doubtless be surprised at not receiving from me any account of the performance of your scheme for the improvement of the achromatic telescope .
" My general opinion of your improvement is , that it is , for the purpose it is designed to answer , as useful as it is elegant .
" By a careful determination of the value of the micrometer divisions , I find the magnifying power of any eye-tube is increased in the proportion of 2 1068 to 1 : each part originally = 0"'555922 is now = 0"'263867 .
To obtain the magnifying powers of the eye-tubes , I content myself with multiplying the original powers by 2 1 .
But I will detail a few particulars noted in my journal on the subject .
I have thus set down the advantages of the additional lens .
" 1st .
The micrometer threads are only half the thickness , with the same magnifying power on the object ; small stars are therefore neither obliterated nor distorted .
" 2nd .
The parallel threads are both very nearly in focus with any power up to 600 ; before , only up to 285 ( the same eye-piece ) .
" 3rd .
The value of the micrometer divisions is less than one half its former amount , permitting a proportionally fine motion in measuring the distances of delicate objects .
" 4th .
A much greater extent of the field being flat , and the threads distinct further from the centre ; of great importance in accurately determining the zero of position by the passage of a star along the thread .
200 'c 5th .
The definition of the stars seems quite as good ; and the false light does not appear to be increased , or the regularity of its distribution affected .
The discs of the stars seem in fact to be , if anything , rather smaller and cleaner with the concave .
Perhaps their brightness might be perceived to be a trifle less ; but even this is doubtful .
See below .
" 6th .
The shallower eye-glasses are much more easily cleaned ; of great importance in high powers .
" ' 7t1h .
The prism can be conveniently applied to all powers as high as 600 ; before , only to 285 .
This prism is of essential utility in other respects besides facilitating zenith observations ; and it is no small improvement that its use is thus extended .
" From the performance of this additional lens , it is evidently a perfect production .
Against all the advantages detailed above , the trifling addition to the length of the telescope is not to be mentioned ; indeed it is to me surprising that so great an effect should be produced with so minute an increase of focus . ?
" As a severe trial of the difference in illuminating power , I have examined Saturn 's satellites , and x Geminoruin .
I could discover no decided difference in the apparent brightness of the satellites , allowance being made for the difference of power employed .
It happens awkwardly , that among moderate powers , fit for planets , none coincide sufficiently with and without the concave lens .
The nearest I can get are a negative 195 with the new lens , and a double convex 208 without it : with these , little difference in brightness ; but the planet might be a trifle sharper with the latter .
Have you ever seen the minute companion of X Geminorum ?
It is the finest test of a five-feet achromatic I have yet seen : distance about 6 " .
I saw it steadily with negative 140 without the concave , and quite as well with negative 116 with it ; but these powers are not near enough to each other .
" For tolerably bright stars , I have on the micrometer 475 with the concave lens , and without it 480 ; also 600 with , and 625 without .
These afford an excellent comparison .
Vision appears to me equally good with both ; and the fineness of the micrometer threads leads me always to prefer the new arrangement , as I can then use the same eye-piece generally for the distances , as I use for the positions .
" In clear weather , I always use 600 for stars of the fifth magnitude and upwards , and sometimes even of the sixth ; and last night I got a very good set of positions of Castor with a power of 1010 , with which the discs were occasionally perfectly well formed , though of course not so sharply defined .
I also obtained last night very satisfactory measures of i Cancri , certainly one of the most difficult stars for a telescope of five feet .
That you may judge for yourself of the way in which it was seen , I will detail here my measures , exactly transcribed from my observation paper .
Power .
Position .
600 336 ? ?
56 ' Mean = 335 ? ?
28 ' Stars placed between the 335 50 z 271 26 parallel wires thus : 336 22 335 8 64 2nf .
335 7\334 1= 25 58 from N.\\X I334 49 Power .
Distance .
P. decl .
P. decl .
295 + 4'0 42 Mean of all = 4P'33 , which 1tt'143 .
4-2 5-0 4-3 4-4 4-3 4-2 4-4 4-3 N.B. The plus and minus measures are taken alternately , and not one rejected or altered .
" Though 600 did well for the angles , the stars were not sharp enough with that high power for accurate bisection .
The parallel threads are sweetly fine and sharp with 295 ( formerly 140 ) .
Indeed , this is a very efficient and generally useful power .
" 'Thus you will see , my dear Sir , that a long-lamented desideratum has been efficiently supplied by your elegant invention .
I have thus nearly all the advantages , and none of the disadvantages , of a ten-feet telescope of the same aperture .
" I remain , my dear Sir , " Yours faithfully , ( Signed ) " W. R. DAWE S. I shall now introdtuce some extracts from a letter I have since received from Professor BARLOW , in which his formula for constructing the lens are given .
" Woolwich , February 1st , 1834 .
" DEAR SIR , In answer to your letter of January 30th , 1834 , I will endeavour to state the views which led to my requesting you to make the achromatic concave lens you allude to , and explain the formula and principles on which I computed the curves .
" First , with regard to my views .
Every one is aware of the ease and comfort of observing objects in a long telescope in comparison with viewing the same in a short one , supposing the powers equal in both instruments ; and my object was to produce this effect by taking up the rays before they arrived at their focus , extending them to a greater distance , and thereby increasing the size of the image , which is of course the same as increasing the length of the telescope in a like proportion .
'"In order to render this lens achronmatic , it is only necessary to malke the foci of the lenses proportional to their dispersive powers , as in the object-glass itself ; except that here the crown lens must be made concave and the flint lens convex .
" Suppose , for example , the compound lens is to be placed at a distance , d , from the focus , and that the image is to be doubled , then the focal length of the compound lens 1I1 must be 2 d ; for dd=7 d : again , 8 being the dispersive ratio , we have f=2d ( 1 8 ) = focal length of the crown lens , d ' = focal length of the flint lens .
C ' To correct the spherical aberration requires more labour .
Let us suppose the crown lens placed towards the oject-glass .
Assue its radii r , or ather their ratio lens placed towards the object-glass .
Assume its radii r , r ; or rather their ratio -q 202 at pleasure , and compute its aberration for rays converging to the distance d , which may be done by the following formula , a being the index .
" Find ( a )addr ad atd--=r c '=c r- , r =c , and ?
= ; then the aberration will be are .
f ( C + q)2 c+ ( a + ) q ( C + I)8 ( C/ + q)c aq aberration ( )( ( + + ) ' - } X(a c q ) c +(ac + -a + ( bt c ' +1)X. .
" Let the quantity when found be called ln , then for the flint lens proceed as below , the rad r the radii being latter towards te eye , and the index a ' " Find ( a ' +d l ) 2 d , t t Qd d ' " d'=ad'= ab T+ 1r= c , = c ' , and =q .
" Then find r " ' r " and q , such , that f(Jc qc ( c + )( c+ )q ( d+I)2 ( ?
+ Q-b)q ) at ( ac _ q ) X c(ai'c + a ' ) + ) ( T + I)2 X ' X , f m , and the resulting curves will be those required .
" To produce this latter equality is the only difficulty in the operation , and to treat it as a common equation would lead to immense labour .
I have therefore always contented myself with pursuing the more simple method of trial and error , its facility fully compensating , in my mind , for its want of scientific elegance .
" It may be proper to observe , that I proposed the lens to double the magnifying power , and the curves were computed accordingly , but the formulm will of course apply to magnifying in any ratio .
' " I hope this explanation will be found intelligible , and I am pleased to find my proposition has been found useful .
" I remain , dear Sir , " Yours very truly , ( Signed ) PETER BARLOw .
" I have only to add to the foregoing relation of facts , that I do hope they will prove satisfactory to those friends who have felt so much interested upon the subject as to induce me to write this Paper , it not being my wish to take credit to myself for anything like an invention , but merely for the application of the lens to the micrometer , as I am fully convinced that a concave lens , either simple or achromatic , was never so applied before .
* See Philosophical Transactions , 1827 , p. 244 .
February 17th , 1834 .
2D2 203

