On the Existence of a Limit to Vaporization .
By M. Faraday , F.R.S. Corresponding Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris , 8c .
8fc .
Communicated May 26 , 1826 .
Read June 15 , 1826 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1826 , p. 484 .
] The object of this paper is stated by its author to be , to show that a limit exists to the production of vapour of any tension by bodies placed in vacuo , or in elastic media , beneath which limit they are perfectly fixed .
The train of argument by which this is attempted to be demonstrated may be summarily stated as follows .
Assuming it as proved by Dr. Wollaston , that a limit exists to the earth 's atmosphere , where in consequence of its rarity its molecules are so distant from each other , that the repulsion of any one on the molecule below it is just equal to its gravity , it is clear that in this case the force of gravity may be regarded as setting a limit to further expansion ; and if we could exhaust a receiver to the degree of tension obtaining on the surface of the atmosphere , any further subtraction of air would produce no further diminution of density , but would merely produce a vacuum in the upper part of the receiver .
But cold , as well as rarefaction , diminishes the elasticity of vapours or gases , and therefore if the temperature be greatly diminished , the limit above alluded to , where gravity counteracts the elastic force , will be attained with a less degree of rarefaction ; and if the temperature were sufficiently low , it is evident that air of any given degree of density would lose its disposition to expand in a direction contrary to gravity .
In the case of air , however , the cold required to render it inelastic at any sensible density would of course be excessive .
But if we consider the vapours of very fixed bodies ( as silver for instance ) , whose tension even at a white heat is insensible , it is almost certain that the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere is , with respect to that capable of maintaining it at a sensible tension , such a degree of cold as would effectually bring it under the command of gravity .
Supposing then silver to cool from fusion , that moment when these forces became equal , would be the one in which vapour could exist above the silver ; and at every lower temperature the metal would be perfectly fixed .
But the author regards it as probable that thisequilibrium at ordinary temperatures may take place with bodies much more volatile than silver , and states an experiment made with mercury in the winter of 1824-25 , where no action on gold-leaf , suspended over it , however near , took place , from which he concludes the mercury then to have been perfectly fixed ; and other experiments on mercury and on sulphuric acid by Sir H. Davy and Signor Bellani are adduced in support of the same view .
But there is another force , that of homogeneous attraction , which the author regards as sufficient to overcome a certain degree of vaporous elasticity ; and he illustrates the mode of action of this force by an experiment on the slow crystallization of camphor , and by that of other substances from vapour in the process of sublimation ; and by analogous phenomena in the crystallization of salts from aqueous solutions .

