555 An Alleged Specific Instance of the Transmission of Acquired Characters.\#151 ; Investigation and Criticism* By T. Gkaham Brown ( Carnegie Fellow ) .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read February 15 , 1912 .
) ( From the Physiological Laboratory of the University of Liverpool .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE I.\#151 ; Historical Note ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 555 II.\#151 ; Experiments Concerning the Nature and Cause of the Brown-S6quard Phenomenon\#151 ; a. The Views held by previous Observei 's ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
559 b. The Occurrence of the Phenomenon in Relation to Trophic Changes in the Feet ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
560 c. The Occurrence of the Phenomenon in Relation to Changes in the Great Sciatic Nerve ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
561 d. Occurrence of the Phenomenon in a Case of Accidental Injury to the Foot ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 562 e.Phenomena under Narcosis in the Guinea-pig and other Animals ... 563 / .
Phenomena in Decerebrate and in Decapitate Animals ... ... ... ... 564 III .
\#151 ; Conclusions Concerning the Nature of the Brown-S6quard Phenomenon ... 566 IV .
\#151 ; Conclusions Concerning the Cause of the Brown-Sequard Phenomenon ... .
567 V.\#151 ; Experiments on Transmission of the Phenomenon\#151 ; a. Experiments on Guinea-pigs ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
571 b. Experiments on Rats ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
571 VI.\#151 ; Conclusions Concerning the Alleged Transmission of the Brown-Sequard Phenomenon ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
572 VII.\#151 ; Summary ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
573 Table of References ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 577 I. Historical Note .
The adherents of the theory of the transmission of acquired characteristics rely upon a comparatively small amount of experimental evidence .
Of that evidence , " Brown-Sequard 's epilepsy " in guinea-pigs is considered an important part .
Brown-Sequard discovered that guinea-pigs develop " epilepsy " after certain lesions of the nervous system , and he stated that the young of such " epileptic " animals may also exhibit the " epilepsy , " although this state does not occur in normal individuals .
* The expenses of this research have been defrayed by a grant from the Carnegie Trust .
The experiments in part were performed in the Physiology Laboratory of the University of Glasgow .
556 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , His first papers date from the year 1850 ( 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ) , and he continued to investigate the phenomenon for more than 40 years , publishing his results in a series of papers and short notes.* He found that the condition might be produced by means of many different lesions .
Of these , it is necessary here to refer only to section of the great sciatic nerve ( 9 , 11 , 12 , 13 ) ; to amputation of the leg , that is , section of the various nerves of the leg ( 18 ) ; and to section of the lumbar posterior spinal roots , which supply the great sciatic nerve ( 12 ) .
A detailed account of these experiments , in so far as they concern the phenomenon , and not its transmission , has been given by the author in another place ( 45 ) .
The condition may be described as it occurs after removal of a part of one great sciatic nerve .
At a variable time after the production of the lesion , a rapid scratching movement of the hind limb of that side is evoked on gently pressing the skin of the face upon the same side as the lesion .
The pressure must be applied within a definite area\#151 ; the " epileptogenous zone " of Brown-Sequard\#151 ; and is ineffective if applied to the corresponding area of skin upon the other side of the body .
This reaction constitutes the " incomplete attack .
" The scratching is accompanied by a twisting of the neck and back .
As time elapses , after the appearance of this condition , the phenomenon enters upon a second phase\#151 ; that of the " complete attack .
" Here the twisting of the back and neck becomes more pronounced , and the animal loses its balance .
At a point in the phenomenon the sense of the bending in back and neck reverses , and the loss of balance is possibly a result of this .
With the change in the direction of the curvatures , the scratching movements usually cease in the hind limb of the side of the lesion , and then appear in the opposite hind limb .
The scratching shortly again changes sides , and so the movements alternate from side to side of the body .
This " attack " may continue for a minute or more after the mechanical stimulation of the skin of the face or neck has ceased ( fig. 1 ) .
Brown-Sequard has been confirmed by many observers in his general description of the appearances of this condition .
Two points may be especially noted .
The first of these is that the phenomenon is a clearly * In the absence of a satisfactory bibliography the search for Brown-Sequard 's original communications necessitates much labour .
I have therefore given a list of his most important publications at the end of this paper .
References to these papers in the text are indicated by numbers in brackets .
This list supplements another given by the author ( 45 ) , in which the papers deal with the physiological aspect of the condition .
Neither list is complete , for I have probably not read all the original papers , and many of those which I have read it was unnecessary to quote .
1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
557 recognisable entity , and the second is Brown-Sequard 's statement that , although he had had many thousands of guinea-pigs under observation , he had never observed the condition save in those especially operated upon ( 11 , 25 ) .
Apart from the phenomenon itself , two other consequences of a section of the great sciatic nerve are of interest .
In the first place , the special area of Fig. 1.\#151 ; February 14 , 1910 .
Record of a " complete " Brown-Sequard reaction in a guinea-pig .
The mechanical stimulus was applied to the right side of the neck between the points X and Y of the signal line ( ordinates : , y ' ) .
Between these points the scratch was confined to the right hind limb , and had this been the only reaction the phenomenon would have been " incomplete .
" But it will be observed that , on cessation of stimulation at Y , scratching movements appear in the left hind limb , then cease and reappear in the right hind limb\#151 ; thus producing a " complete " reaction .
The record indicates flexion as a rise and extension as a fall of the curve .
The rapid up-and-down movements indicate the " beats " of the scratch .
skin usually becomes infested with lice ( 6 , 7 , 12 ) ; and in the second place the animals often acquire the habit of nibbling the anaesthetic parts of the foot .
In 1860 ( 8 ) Brown-Sequard stated that this peculiar phenomenon might appear in the offspring of affected guinea-pigs .
The paper is simply a note , in which he declares that he had seen the transmission in six cases , and that the primary injury was to the spinal cord .
This statement was accepted by 558 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , Darwin in 1868 ( 10 ) , and in 1870 Brown-Sequard published a number of short notes on the subject .
The condition might be transmitted from the parents , male or female , which had the phenomenon .
In several of the offspring there was an " epileptogenous zone " and " incomplete epilepsy " ( 15 , 16 , 17 ) .
Another animal born of an " epileptic " mother had loss of toes and became " epileptic '\#151 ; probably because of an alteration in a sciatic nerve ( 19 ) .
In 1871 Westphal , who produced the state of " epilepsy " in a different manner , confirmed the transmission of the condition to the offspring ( 23 , 24 ) , the attacks being " incomplete .
" Brown-S4quard later gave greater details of the phenomenon of transmission .
Thus , in 1875 , he gives a list of the various conditions which he has observed to be transmitted ( 25 ) .
In this , he includes transmission of the state of " epilepsy " from " epileptic " parents whose sciatic nerves had been cut , and transmission of malformation of the feet from similar parents .
He states that he has never seen " epilepsy " in normal guinea-pigs , although he has had many thousands under observation , and he also says that the transmission of malformation of the toes is very rare\#151 ; he has only recorded 13 cases\#151 ; and that the inheritance of " epilepsy " is only seen in such cases .
Another paper , in 1882 , adds little new ( 32 ) .
He , however , states that he had , at the time , 20 young guinea-pigs , the offspring of parents in which the sciatic nerve was cut , and that these offspring had muscular atrophy of the legs in consequence .
Other observers have investigated the problem of this transmission .
Brown-Sequard states that his pupil Dupuy had confirmed him ( 32 ) .
Westphal , as we have seen above , did also ( 23 , 24 ) .
Romanes ( 35 ) says that " epilepsy " produced by lesions of the cord and of the sciatic nerve is seldom inherited , and he also states that the malformation of the feet produced in operated animals , by their habit of nibbling the parts of the feet rendered anaesthetic by section of the great sciatic nerve did not appear in the offspring he observed through six generations .
Obersteiner ( 26 ) confirmed the transmission of " epilepsy " in guinea-pigs , but more recently Max Sommer ( 38 ) failed to do so ; and Bramwell and Graham Brown ( 42 ) also obtained purely negative results in the case of 10 young , the offspring of " epileptic " parents , which they examined .
Lately , Taft ( 52 ) has failed to observe " epilepsy , " or abnormality , in 114 offspring of " epileptic " parents , neither did these appear in the third and fourth generations .
He lays stress upon the observation of Brown-Sequard father only , and the mother might acquire the condition from the father ( 14 ) In seven instances he observed malformation of the feet in the offspring oi 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
559 that the young which exhibited " epilepsy " had , in all cases , also malformation of the toes .
Maciesza and Wrzosek ( 56 , 57 , 58 ) have , still more recently , taken up the investigation afresh .
They found that of 82 young guinea-pigs horn of " epileptic " parents , it was possible in 33 eases to induce " incomplete epileptic " attacks by mechanical pressure applied to the skin of the neck and face .
They never obtained " complete " attacks .
They also found that in the case of young guinea-pigs , born of normal parents , it is sometimes possible to induce similar " attacks .
" But , at the same time , they observed that the date of the first appearance of either " incomplete " or " complete epilepsy , " after section of one great sciatic nerve , is one week earlier , in the case of the offspring of " epileptic " parents , than it is in the case of normal guinea-pigs .
The same observers also investigated the possibility of the inheritance of feet malformations , produced by section of the great sciatic nerve , in guinea-pigs and in white mice .
In the large number of offspring observed\#151 ; in the case of the mice over several generations\#151 ; they never saw malformations of the hind limbs .
But , in the offspring of normal parents , they observed a small number of cases where there were such malformations , in most cases acquired .
Amongst the offspring of normal guinea-pigs , the percentage of cases in which there were malformations of the lower limbs\#151 ; either acquired or inborn\#151 ; was between one and two ; this percentage corresponds very closely to that found by Brown-Sequard in the offspring of " epileptic " parents .
In looking back over these results we must admit that certain observers have undoubtedly observed the presence of the " complete " Brown-S5quard phenomenon in the offspring of parents in which the condition was also present and caused by injury to the great sciatic nerve ; and that at the same time , and in the same offspring , there were malformations of the lower extremities .
We must also admit , however , that such malformations of the hind limbs may be present , too , in the offspring of normal parents .
II .
Experiments Concerning the Nature and Cause of the Broivn-Stquard Phenomenon .
( a ) The Views Held by Previous Observers.\#151 ; Brown-Sequard classified the phenomena ( 22 ) as either " double " or " single , " and as either " complete " or " incomplete .
" When the phenomenon is " single , " the scratching movements are confined to the hind limb of that side on which the great sciatic nerve was cut .
In the case of the " double " phenomenon the scratching movements first occur upon that side , but later spread to the other side .
The terms " complete " and " incomplete " refer respectively 560 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , to the loss of consciousness or the absence of loss of consciousness which Brown-S6quard described .
Thus a " double " attack may yet be " incomplete " according to him .
But the phenomenon of loss of consciousness cannot accurately be investigated , and it is better to use the terms " complete " and " incomplete " in the sense in which Brown-Sequard used double and single .
This has been the practice of the present author in previous papers , and in it he has been followed by Taft .
Brown-Sequard seems to have considered these different varieties of the phenomenon as essentially of the same nature , and he states ( 36 ) that " epilepsy " which exists in guinea-pigs after the various lesions is absolutely equivalent to ideopathic epilepsy or epilepsy of cerebral origin in man .
He thought ( 21 , 22 ) that the primary cause of the former condition was the irritation of the central stump of the cut sciatic nerve .
The secondary alterations ( of the posterior columns of the spinal cord on the same side , of the hair in the " epileptogenous zone " on the face and neck , and presumably the " epileptic faculty " itself ) do not depend upon the transmission of the morbid organic state by continuity of tissue , but upon the propagation of a morbid influence exercised at a distance by the irritated fibres of the central stump of the cut nerve .
Weismann ( 34 , 41 ) apparently accepted Brown-Sequard 's view of the nature of the condition , for he states that epilepsy is not a morphological character but a disease , and he supposes that the condition might be caused by an unknown microbe which might pass to the young , and in them produce the same phenomena .
This view was vigorously combated by Brown-S^quard ( 37 ) , who failed to find a specific micro-organism .
He also points out that the condition never follows certain lesions ( such as section of the brachial plexus ) , although it always follows certain other lesions of a similar nature ( section of the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ) .
And , in addition , the phenomenon may appear when the sciatic nerve is injured without breaking the skin , as when it is involved in the callus thrown out when there is a fracture of the bones .
( b ) The Occurrence of the Phenomenon in Relation to Trophic Changes in the Feet.\#151 ; After section of the great sciatic nerve , a large part of the surface of the skin of the foot and leg is rendered anaesthetic .
Guinea-pigs in which this anaesthesia is produced commonly acquire the habit of nibbling the insensitive parts until they may destroy the two outer toes , or even a greater part of the limb .
This habit may be controlled by placing fluids which have a bitter taste upon the foot .
It is hardly necessary to say that the animal itself can feel no pain .
1911 .
] the Transmission of Acq Characters .
As it might be argued that bacterial infection from the raw surface may he the primary cause of the appearance of the condition , it is interesting to enquire whether the phenomenon may appear in the absence of this ^ trophic " change .
In illustration of this the three following experiments may be quoted:\#151 ; Guinea-pigs 60 , 61 , 63.\#151 ; These three animals had a portion of their right great sciatic nerves removed on June 11 , 1909 .
In each case the " incomplete " reaction of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon appeared on or before July 10 , 1909 .
Two days later records of the movements of the hind limbs were recorded .
At that time there were no traces of " trophic " change in the right foot of 60 .
In the case of 61 there was only a slight change in one claw , and in the case of 63 there was a well-marked " trophic " change of the right foot .
There was no very great difference between the records taken from the three animals .
The best records were obtained from 60 and 63 .
These experiments seem to prove that the presence or absence of a " trophic " change in the foot is not a determining factor in the production of the phenomenon .
In connection with the " trophic " changes in the foot , another observation may be recorded .
The change is in great part due to the habit of nibbling the anaesthetic parts .
This may be regarded as a morbid habit .
Not only does a guinea-pig nibble its own foot , but it may nibble the foot of another .
Protective reflexes prevent this from being effective when that other animal is normal .
But if it , too , have its foot rendered amesthetic by section of the great sciatic nerve , then the nibbling may be effective in destroying part of the foot .
Thus it has been noticed that if two such individuals be kept in the same cage , it sometimes happens that they will not only nibble their own feet , but will also nibble each other 's feet .
This acquired habit , then , may lead a guinea-pig to the unnatural act of devouring others of its own kind , and may explain in part the greater than normal destruction of young by the mother in the case of such individuals .
( c ) Occurrence of the Phenomenon in Relation to Changes in the Great Sciatic Nerve.\#151 ; When the great sciatic nerve is severed and a portion removed , regeneration does not occur , and the central stump forms a bulbous enlargement .
It might reasonably be argued that a continued irritation arising in this stump might be the cause of the production of the phenomenon .
To investigate this point the nerve , in a guinea-pig which demonstrated the phenomenon , has again been cut central to the first lesion .
Guinea-pig 21.\#151 ; In this experiment the great sciatic nerve was divided and a portion removed on January 8 , 1909 .
This lesion was made at the level of the middle of the thigh .
In the beginning of July of the same 562 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , year tracings of the scratching movements\#151 ; both of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon and of the narcosis scratch\#151 ; were recorded , and the great sciatic nerve was again divided and a part removed at the level of the great trochanter of the femur .
In this second operation the narcosis scratch occurred , and was recorded graphically both before and after the division of the nerve .
Subsequent to the operation the scratching movements of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon might still be obtained and were recorded .
At the time of the second operation the Brown-Sequard phenomenon was " incomplete .
" The rhythm of the " beats " of the scratching movements was between 11 and 13 per second .
After the second operation it was slightly more difficult to induce the phenomenon , and the rhythm of the beats was the same .
The scratching movements of the narcosis scratch before the second operation occurred chiefly upon the side which exhibited the Brown-Sequard phenomenon ( the right side of the animal ) .
After the operation the same was the case .
There was no important difference between the records taken before and after the second division of the nerve , and the rhythms of the " beats " were similar .
This experiment shews that a continued irritation arising from the central stump of the severed nerve is not the cause of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon .
( d ) Occurrence of the Phenomenon in a Case of Accidental Injury to the Foot.\#151 ; Brown-Sequard noticed that accidental injury of the nature of fracture of the bones might produce the phenomenon .
He attributed this effect to the implication of the nerve in the callus produced during the process of repair of the broken bones .
The following instance of the appearance of the phenomenon after another kind of accidental injury is of some interest:\#151 ; Guinea- , pig 55.\#151 ; This animal wTas operated upon on May 7 , 1909 , for another purpose ( section of the corpus callosum ) not connected with the Brown-Sdquard phenomenon .
One morning , a few days later , it was found that a wisp of straw had become entangled tightly round one foot .
This was at once removed , but it was found that the foot had become anaesthetic , and the foot subsequently became swollen .
As the animal obviously suffered no inconvenience and was perfectly healthy it was decided to keep it .
The foot was carefully treated , but sensation was not restored and it withered .
On July 2 , 1909 , a well-marked " complete " Brown-Sequard phenomenon could be obtained on either side by stimulation of the skin of the face or neck .
1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
narcosis in the guinea-pig ( 46 ) , and he has given more detailed observations in subseqent papers ( 47 , 48 , 51 , 54 , 55 ) .
These seem to have a direct hearing upon the question of the nature of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon .
564 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , Guinea-pigs and rabbits when under the influence of a general anesthetic such as chloroform or ether exhibit peculiar scratching movements which alternate from one hind limb to the other ( fig. 2 ) .
The details of this phenomenon\#151 ; which may be termed the " narcosis scratch " \#151 ; have been given at length in previous papers and need not here be again repeated .
But it may be said that suddenly a movement of scratching appears in one hind limb , and that at the same time the back is bent with its convexity to the opposite side , and the neck with its convexity to the same side .
The movements of the scratch last thus for a few seconds , and then cease in that hind limb but appear in the opposite one .
At the same time the bendings of the back and neck reverse , so that the animal assumes the mirror posture of that first described .
In a similar manner the scratching movements in this limb cease and reappear in the first hind limb .
And so the phenomenon proceeds , the alternation of scratching movements from side to side of the body lasting for several minutes in some cases .
If the depth of anaesthesia be increased the movements decrease gradually in extent and finally die away .
But if the depth of anaesthesia be decreased the movements cease suddenly .
Becords of the movements obtained by the graphic method demonstrate their likeness to the movements of a true scratch-reflex .
A relative difference lies in the rhythm of the component beats of the movement .
In the " narcosis scratch " the rhythm is slower than in the scratch-reflex .
An essential difference between them lies in the automatism and alternate repetition of the scratching phases of the " narcosis scratch .
" In them there is no ascertainable peripheral stimulus , and they continue automatically passing from one hind limb to the other .
( f ) Phenomena in Decerebrate and Decapitate Animals.\#151 ; In the decapitate cat , as Sherrington has noticed ( 49 ) , the scratch-reflex may easily be evoked by stimulation of the skin of the neck .
In the same preparation , however , " spontaneous " scratching may sometimes occur .
During the making of this preparation a ligature is passed tightly round the neck of the carcase in order- to prevent bleeding from the veins .
It is probable that the " spontaneous " scratching is due to a mechanical stimulus set up by this ligature .
It occasionally happens that similar " spontaneous " scratching movements may continue for a considerable time and not upon the one side of the body only .
In these cases the scratch alternates from one hind limb to the other , and the phenomenon\#151 ; although its causation may probably be traced to a peripheral stimulus\#151 ; resembles very closely the " narcosis scratch " in the guinea-pig .
1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
565 Further , the two conditions are similar in the condition of the animals which exhibit them .
Thus , in the decapitate cat , the higher centres are removed down to the level of the caudal margin of the medulla oblongata by operative procedure .
In the guinea-pig under anesthesia , certain of the higher centres are temporarily eliminated by the action of the narcotic .
Fig. 3.\#151 ; Record of the movements of the true scratch-reflex of the hind limbs obtained on stimulating the skin of the neck mechanically in a decerebrate guinea-pig .
The ordinates a , a ' mark corresponding points in the two tracings .
In the cat , as Sherrington has demonstrated ( 49 ) , a state of asphyxia favours the scratch-reflex ; and in the guinea-pig , as the present author has shown ( 47 ) , asphyxia favours the " narcosis scratch .
" The present author at one time thought that a true scratch-reflex could not be obtained in the normal decerebrate guinea-pig ( 53 ) .
But he subsequently found ( 59 ) that it might appear in such preparations , although rarely .
The observation is of interest .
In a normal guinea-pig , from which VOL. LXXXIV.\#151 ; B. 2 T 566 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , the whole of the cerebral hemispheres had been removed , mechanical pressure applied to the skin of the neck evoked a distinct scratch-reflex in the hind limbs ( fig. 3 ) .
This observation demonstrates that a true scratch-reflex may be evoked in the guinea-pig .
And a comparison between graphic records of it , and of the scratching movements of the Brown-S\amp ; piard phenomenon , demonstrates their similarity .
" Voluntary " scratching occurs in guinea-pigs as in most other mammals .
III .
Conclusions Concerning the Nature of the Brown- S6quard Phenomenon .
It is somewhat remarkable that comparatively little attention has previously been directed to the nature of the condition .
This question is of great importance in relation to the value of the experiments in demonstrating the transmission of an acquired character .
For it is obviously important to know if the phenomenon is one inherent in all guinea-pigs , and released by the special conditions of the experiment 's ; or if it arises de novo as a result of the experimental interference .
The present author ( 45 ) has demonstrated the close similarity between the scratching movements of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon and the movements of the scratch-reflex as observed by Sherrington in the spinal dog ( 43 , 44 ) .
Graphic records of the phenomenon in guinea-pigs demonstrate all the especial characteristics of the scratch-reflex .
We have now before us evidence of the characteristics of three scratching phenomena in the guinea-pig\#151 ; the true scratch-reflex , the scratching movements of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon , and the scratching movements of the " narcosis scratch .
" The records , in general , exhibit the same characteristics in all three cases .
But more than this .
In all three conditions there are concomitant phenomena , in other parts of the body , which accompany the scratching movements .
Such are the bending of the back and neck , movements of the ears and eyes , movements of the fore limbs , etc. In all three conditions these also are present , although in differing degree .
It must , I think , be definitely admitted that the movements in the " incomplete " form of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon , in a scratching phase of the " narcosis scratch , " and in the true scratch-reflex of the guinea-pig , are all exhibitions of the activity of one and the same mechanism .
The " incomplete " Brown-Sequard phenomenon is , in fact , no more and no less than an example of the scratch-reflex in the guinea-pig .
The phenomena of the " complete " form of the condition at first sight raise certain difficulties .
In the scratch-reflex of such a preparation as the 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
spinal dog the scratching movements are usually confined to the hind limb of the side stimulated .
Gergens ( 29 ) and , later , Magnus ( 50 ) have , however , shown that the scratch may appear in the contralateral hind limb if the ipsilateral limb is restrained .
The present author has observed the same phenomenon in a guinea-pig which only exhibited the " incomplete " Brown -Sequard phenomenon .
But in the " narcosis scratch " \#151 ; a phenomenon , moreover , which appears in normal guinea-pigs\#151 ; the scratching movements also alternate from side to side of the body .
It is therefore possible , and indeed probable , that the scratch-reflex is in a state of great potential excitability\#151 ; upon that side of the body on which the great sciatic nerve has been cut\#151 ; in a guinea-pig which exhibits the " complete " Brown-Sequard phenomenon .
The first resultant of the effective stimulus will be to evoke the scratch-reflex in the hind limb of that side .
At a certain point , however , the condition passes over into a state which parallels that condition seen in the " narcosis scratch .
" From a consideration of these phenomena I think that there can be no reasonable doubt that the phenomena described by Brown-Sequard are special instances of states\#151 ; the true scratch-reflex and the " narcosis scratch " \#151 ; of which the conditioning mechanisms are inherent in all normal guinea-pigs .
If this be true , the Brown-Sequard phenomenon must not be regarded as a specific condition specifically created by the consequences of certain lesions of the nervous system , and thus as arising novo in the animals so treated .
It must rather be looked upon as being in itself an expression of the activity of a mechanism present in all guinea-pigs and only especially elicitable in consequence of the derangements produced by these lesions .
If the mechanism is present in all guinea-pigs it is equally present in the young of parents in which the Brown-Sequard phenomenon is present .
But if this phenomenon is present in these young what is inherited as an acquirement is not the mechanism but the especial excitability of it .
IY .
Conclusions Concerning the Cause of the Brown-Siquard Phenomenon .
The question now arises\#151 ; in what manner does the section of the great sciatic nerve produce the raised excitabilitj ' of this mechanism ?
Abel and Graham Brown have partially discussed this question ( 51 ) .
The special question examined by them was the causation of macroscopic and microscopic changes in the " epileptogenous zone " of skin from which the movements of the phenomenon are elicited by mechanical stimulation .
This question concerns us here .
568 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance [ Dec. 9 , In this area of the skin the hair sometimes , but not always , becomes rough and broken and is shed .
At the same time lice accumulate in the area and the skin is thickened .
In the case of one guinea-pig a very instructive observation was made .
This animal exhibited a bare crescentic patch of skin behind the scapula of that side upon which the Brown-Sequard phenomenon might be elicited in consequence of the removal of part of the great sciatic nerve .
This was certainly caused by excessive " voluntary " scratching directed to this very limited area .
From this it was argued that the normal scratching movements were especially frequent upon the side of the lesion in guinea-pigs exhibiting the phenomenon .
This supposition also rests upon direct observation .
From this and other considerations it was concluded that the roughening of the hair ( and the other changes in the special area of skin ) are not caused directly by the section of the great sciatic nerve\#151 ; either by an effect in producing a greater amount of scratching than is usual , or by an effect in producing a less amount of effective scratching in consequence of loss of the toes by the trophic changes in the foot\#151 ; but that it might either follow indirectly a central change in the nervous system , or , what is more probable , be due indirectly to a lessened amount of effective scratching .
This last supposition may be explained by supposing that the effect of the section of the nerve is to cause an increase in the excitability of the scratch-reflex evoked in response to the mechanical stimulation of a circumscribed part of the special area .
When a normal stimulus falls outside this the scratch is at first directed to the stimulated point\#151 ; is co-ordinate\#151 ; but almost immediately irradiates to the point which is especially excitable .
Thus all other areas receive inadequate grooming although the scratch-reflex itself may be described as relatively excitable .
The experiments described in a previous section ( III , ( b ) ) demonstrate not only that the " trophic " change in the foot is not the cause of the raised excitability seen in the condition , but that the possibility of effective or ineffective scratching ( as regards only the state of the scratching implement ) is not a determining cause .
That the scratch-reflex is especially excitable upon the side of which the great sciatic nerve has been divided is shewn not only by the occurrence of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon itself but also by evidence derived from the phenomena of the " narcosis scratch " as it appears in such individuals ( 47 ) .
In these cases the " narcosis scratch " does not run its ordinary symmetrical course\#151 ; alternating from side to side of the body .
More usually it occurs at first only upon the same side as that which exhibits the Brown-Sequard phenomenon .
The movements may be confined entirely to 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
this side , but in other cases later in the experiment they appear upon the opposite side .
The section of the great sciatic nerve causes two kinds of change in the individual .
Of these the first is that peripheral to the place of section of the nerve .
There is paralysis of certain of the muscles of the lower limb ( extensors and flexors of the ankle and the peroneal muscles and the short muscles of the foot ) , and anaesthesia of a certain peripheral field which indirectly produces a loss of the toes .
The second change is central .
The excitability of the scratch-reflex is raised , and at the same time there is a parallel change in the peripheral field of skin in the neck and over the face .
Concerning the causation of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon , it might be argued either , on the one hand , that the raised excitability which conditions it is caused by over-stimulation of the afferent part of the mechanism by the degenerative changes in the skin area of the neck , and that these are due to the absence of proper grooming in virtue of the paralysis of the leg and foot and the loss of the scratching claws ; or , on the other hand , it might be supposed that the section of the nerve produces a central change , one feature of which is a raised excitability of the scratch-reflex , and that the degenerative changes in the skin of the neck are conditioned either directly or indirectly by this central change and not by the peripheral paralysis and loss of toes .
The first theory is probably not correct .
The Brown-Sequard phenomenon may be present when there is no visible degenerative change in the skin area of the neck and face .
It may also be present when the scratching toes are not lost , and when the " voluntary " scratching movements are actually greater than usual upon that side .
" Voluntary " scratching may even be so exaggerated and so effectual as to produce a bare patch of skin such as that mentioned above .
- The second view must be held .
Section of the great sciatic nerve actually raises the excitability of the scratch-reflex , and the degenerative changes in the neck area are due , not to excess of grooming , but to a diminution of grooming over the greater part of the area .
This seeming paradox may be explained as follows:\#151 ; The scratch-reflex varies as it is evoked from different areas of the total receptive field .
Each of these various reactions is really , as Sherrington points out ( 44 ) , an individual scratch-reflex different from all others .
The section of the great sciatic nerve may be supposed to raise the reflex excitability for only a small group of these .
That this is so is demonstrated by the restricted area from which the Brown-Sequard reaction may at first be obtained ( 45 ) .
When a " normal " stimulus\#151 ; tickling caused by lice\#151 ; occurs in the neck area , the scratch-reflex will be such that 570 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , the scratching toes are directed to the point stimulated , and the reaction is an effective grooming of the skin .
But if the excitability of a neighbouring group of arcs is raised by section of the sciatic nerve , then the normal response thus engendered may rapidly become one directed by irradiation towards the most excitable area .
There will , in consequence , be a diminished normal grooming of the skin in all other areas .
This will lead to an accumulation of lice , etc. , and this condition may help to augment the raised excitability of the scratch-reflex .
But in what manner may the section of the great sciatic nerve produce the primary raised excitability of the scratch-reflex ?
The author has previously described a conception of " neural balance " ( 59 , 60 ) .
In general , it may be supposed that the activity and the reflex excitability of a centre\#151 ; or of a pair of antagonistic centres\#151 ; go hand in hand , and that they are the resultant of innumerable excitatory and inhibitory influences which continually play upon the centre .
This resultant may be termed the " neural balance .
" The neural balance may be tilted for a time in one direction by the temporary preponderance of one of the influences which play upon it .
And it may be permanently upset by a permanent alteration in the value of the influences which compose the balance .
With regard to the scratch-reflex , it has already been shewn ( 53 ) that removal of the cerebral cortex of one side produces such a permanent alteration .
It is probable that section of the great sciatic nerve does also .
That the removal of so great a sensory field as that subtended by the sciatic nerve should increase reflex excitability in certain definite directions is likely .
It is by no means improbable that the activity of the afferent mechanisms contained therein exerts an inhibitory influence upon the scratch-reflex ; and that the section of the nerve permanently removes this inhibition .
In this connection it is interesting to refer to the observations of some other investigators .
For instance , Langendorff ( 30 ) found that Goltz 's croak-reflex\#151 ; which may be evoked in the frog with regularity after decerebration\#151 ; may also be evocable thus after section of the optic tracts alone .
The removal of a peripheral sensory field here makes a specific reflex more excitable .
He points out , too , that the raised excitability of * the hind limbs , which is produced by packing the back of a frog in ice and was observed by Freusberg ( 28 ) , may be due to the abolition in this manner of a large sensory field in the skin .
Of particular interest are the observations of v. Botticlier ( 31 ) .
He repeated LangendorfPs experiments , and found , in addition , that section of both great sciatic nerves admitted of the regular evocation of the cioak- 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
571 reflex .
And Mayer ( 33 ) found that the spinal cord was especially excitable on the injured side after section of one great sciatic nerve .
If the afferent impulses normally carried to the spinal cord through , the great sciatic nerve tend in their activity to depress the excitability of the scratch-reflex , the causation of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon by the section of a great sciatic nerve resolves itself into the raising of the excitability of the scratch-reflex by the removal of an inhibitory influence .
The fact that the phenomenon does not at once appear on section of the nerve may be explained by a condition analogous to spinal shock .
V. j Experiments on Transmission of the Phenomenon .
( a ) Experiments on Guinea-pigs.\#151 ; In the present experiments 29 young guinea-pigs have been bom of 11 female guinea-pigs after removal of a part of the mother 's right great sciatic nerve .
Some of these were conceived by normal fathers before the operation .
In the case of the others , both parents had their sciatic nerves cut .
As in no case any congenital abnormality of the hind limbs was observed it is unnecessary to give further details .
Of these young guinea-pigs only five survived birth .
One of the five was born within a short period of the operation , and before the mother had exhibited the phenomenon .
The others were born in the third month after the operation , and when their parents exhibited the phenomenon .
In none was there any malformation of the feet or toes , and there was no evidence of the presence of the phenomenon , although they were tested over periods of several weeks ( the one which was born soon after the operation lived only two days , the other four lived for 7 , 7 , 26 and 28 weeks respectively ) .
Of the remaining 24 guinea-pigs all were dead at birth , or died within a few hours of birth ; five were born prematurely ; five were not damaged by the mother ; the remaining 14 were all partially eaten .
In some cases they were almost entirely devoured , in others scarcely touched .
No part of the body was exempt , although the parts usually damaged appeared to be the abdomen and limbs .
In several cases the limbs were undamaged , but in four cases the hind limbs alone were injured .
These four instances bear on the present problem .
In two cases the hind leg was eaten .
In one case , one foot was eaten and nothing else ; and , in the fourth case , only one toe of one hind limb was devoured .
Had this last guinea-pig survived , and not been examined until the toe had healed , the malformation might well have been regarded as congenital .
( b ) Experiments on Rats.\#151 ; A portion of the right great sciatic nerve has been removed from 12 rats .
Some of these were white rats , and others 572 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , ( five in number ) were brown rats stated to be bred from a white tame mother and a brown wild father .
It was found that degenerative changes in the foot were far rarer in the rats than in the guinea-pigs from which a piece of the great sciatic nerve had been removed .
A " complete " phenomenon , similar to that seen in guinea-pigs , was not obtained .
But it was found that the ordinary scratch-reflex\#151 ; analogous to the " incomplete " phenomenon\#151 ; was raised in excitability upon the side of the lesion .
If the inside of the ear , or the skin behind the ear , was tickled , it was found that upon the side of the lesion the scratch-reflex was evoked , but this did not occur upon the other side .
These rats produced many litters of young .
An exact register was not kept , but the number of young was greater than 120 .
Many of these ( about 40 to 50 , or more ) were carefully examined , but a raised excitability to the scratch-reflex was in no instance seen .
That is to say , that scratching was not obtained in response to a stimulus of equal value to that which produced , upon the side of the lesion , scratching in the parents .
VI .
Conclusions Concerning the Alleged Transmission of the Phenomenon .
If the preceding conclusions regarding the nature and causation of the phenomenon be accepted , they throw some light upon the question of the value of the experiments of Brown-Sequard as an example of the transmission of an acquired character , for the state itself cannot be regarded as an acquirement .
The mechanism is present in every guinea-pig , and the possibility that it be rendered apparent in the phenomenon is always there .
The peculiarity of the condition in the parent is that a certain specific mechanism in the central nervous system is rendered more excitable than usual .
Thus the question of transmission in this case is not " is a mechanism which arises de novo in the parent transmitted to the offspring ?
" but " does a state of the raised excitability of a reflex mechanism already present in the parent condition by inheritance a similar raised excitability in the offspring ?
" Before considering the answer to this question notice may briefly be taken of Galton 's suggestion ( 27 ) that the appearance of the phenomenon in the offspring is due to imitation of the parent .
This is , to say the least , extremely unlikely .
In no case was such imitation seen in these experiments .
In support of the affirmative answer to the question the experiments of Brown-S4quard and of others may be quoted .
If the negative be 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
573 believed to be the proper answer , these results must be explained in some other way .
In regard to this question Brown-Sequard 's experiments may briefly be summarised by stating that he found , after section of the great sciatic nerve in normal guinea-pigs , the appearance of a peculiar state termed by him " epileptic " ; that this appeared in every instance , or in almost all instances , and that in most cases the toes were lost through the animals nibbling away the parts rendered anaesthetic .
Of the offspring of such animals he found that a very small proportion exhibited a malformation of the feet , and that of these some exhibited the " epilepsy .
" The proportion of offspring which exhibited the " epilepsy " was only 1 to 2 per cent. In connection with the congenital absence of toes in these offspring Morgan ( 40 ) , in a criticism of the experiments , notes the possibility that the malformation may be due to a perverted act on the part of the mother at birth .
He states that he had observed an absence of the tails in succeeding litters of white mice , and that this was due to the action of the mother .
The mother bit the tails off and devoured them .
This is not difficult to explain , for it probably is a perversion of the normal act whereby the mother devours the placenta and nibbles off the umbilical cord of her young at birth .
The observations described in this paper , in which actual injury to the toes of the young at birth was seen in the case of offspring of guinea-pigs in which the Brown-S4quard phenomenon was present , strongly support this view of the origin of the " congenital " malformations of the toes described by Brown-Sequard .
But this explanation may also serve to elucidate the nature of the " transmission " of the phenomenon itself .
The observation described above , of a guinea-pig which developed the phenomenon in consequence of an accidental injury to its foot , demonstrates that the condition may be caused by such an accidental injury as that which may be inflicted by the mother upon its young at birth .
The experiments of Maciesza and Wrzosek ( 56 , 57 , 58 ) are of some interest .
Their conclusion , that in the offspring of guinea-pigs in which the phenomenon is present section of the great sciatic nerve is followed by the appearance of the phenomenon at a smaller interval of time than is usual , requires some explanation .
But their results should be received with some hesitation until statistics from a larger number of experiments are available .
The figures upon which they base their conclusions are obtained from 27 normal guinea-pigs and 14 offspring only .
They take as a test the interval which elapses between 574 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , the time at which the great sciatic nerve is cut and that at which the first appearance of the Brown-S^quard phenomenon is observed .
This interval is found to be less on the average in the offspring of guinea-pigs which have the phenomenon in consequence of section of the great sciatic nerve than it is in normal guinea-pigs .
Of the 14 offspring upon which their results are based one exhibited the " complete " phenomenon as early as the fifth day after section of the nerve , and another as late as the sixty-second day .
With so great a variation no great value can be placed upon so small a number of results as 14 .
For instance , had they obtained two additional offspring , each of which exhibited the " complete " phenomenon upon the sixty-second day , the average for the whole would nearly have approached that which they obtained in the case of normal guinea-pigs .
An additional criticism may be directed to their results in that they compare an average obtained from normal guinea-pigs with one obtained from the offspring of guinea-pigs which exhibited the phenomenon , but do not compare the latter average with that of their individual parents .
Even if it can be demonstrated without doubt that the offspring of " epileptic " parents on an average exhibit the phenomena within a shorter duration of time after section of the great sciatic nerve than did their parents , this would not necessarily prove that the state of raised excitability of the scratch-reflex is inherited .
The experience of the present author , and of Taft , and of Maciesza and Wrzosek , has shown that guinea-pigs which exhibit the phenomenon are unfitted to bear healthy young .
Many of their young are dead at birth , many are aborted , many die shortly after birth .
Those which survive are often less healthy than are the young of normal animals .
One of the signs of this ill-health may be the absence of an efficient grooming of the skin .
Lice may be more numerous upon them in consequence of this , and perhaps also in consequence of a greater direct infection from the mother than usual .
This in itself will raise the excitability of the scratch-reflex .
In this connection Prof. Sherrington has called my attention to the fact that " dirty " cats are more likely to exhibit the scratch-reflex after decapitation than are well kept ones .
In a similar manner , it might be supposed that the young of " epileptic " guinea-pigs would exhibit the phenomenon within a shorter duration of time after section of the great sciatic nerve than would the offspring of healthy individuals .
VII .
Summary .
1 .
The Brown-Sequard phenomenon ( " experimental epilepsy in guinea-pigs ) is nothing more or less than a specific instance of the 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
scratch-reflex .
The " incomplete " reaction resembles the true scratch-reflex .
The " complete " reaction resembles to a certain extent the " narcosis scratch " described by the author .
2 .
The true scratch-reflex may be evoked in normal guinea-pigs , and so may be the scratching phenomena of the narcosis scratch .
3 .
The Brown-Sequard phenomenon is due to a raised excitability of the scratch-reflex .
4 .
What especially is acquired as a consequence , for instance , of the removal of part of one great sciatic nerve , is a state of raised excitability of the mechanism which subserves the scratch-reflex .
5 .
The question of the alleged transmission of this phenomenon to the young of animals in which it is present therefore resolves itself into the question of the transmission of an acquired state of raised reflex excitability of the scratch-reflex .
6 .
Experiments here described prove that the state of raised excitability of the scratch-reflex in the parent is not due to the continued irritation caused by the formation of a cicatrix round the stump of the divided nerve .
For division of the nerve again above the stump does not abolish the phenomenon .
7 .
Experiments also show that the condition has no fixed relationship to the presence or to the absence of degenerative changes which sometimes occur in the foot after severance of the nerve .
8 .
Observations also show that the phenomenon may occur in animals in which there is no " trophic " change in that area of the skin of the face and neck ( " epileptogenous zone " of Brown-Sequard ) from which the reaction is evocable by the application of mechanical pressure .
The phenomenon may also occur when such a change is present there .
This change is therefore probably not the intrinsic cause of the condition .
9 .
The suggestion is put forward that the raised excitability of the scratch-reflex , which conditions the phenomenon , is due to the removal of an inhibitory influence normally exerted by the great sciatic nerve and its branches .
10 .
It may be supposed that , in the " neural balance " of the scratch-reflex , one of the inhibitory factors is conditioned by the activity of the afferent fibres contained in the great sciatic nerve , and that , when this factor is removed by division of the nerve , the excitatory factors are less completely balanced , and the neural balance is tilted in the direction of excitability .
11 .
The raised excitability of a certain number only of the individual reflex arcs , which together compose the scratch-reflex , may lead to a state of incoordination in all the other arcs , so that , when a normal stimulus tends 576 Mr. Graham Brown .
Alleged Specific Instance of [ Dec. 9 , to produce a reaction directed to the area of skin in which the stimulus is present , the reaction rapidly irradiates into the more excitable arcs .
Thus efficient grooming of the skin will be prevented .
Degenerative changes may then appear in the " epileptogenous zone , " and these may tend to raise still further the excitability of the reflex by acting upon the excitation side of the neural balance .
12 .
If this is the nature and causation of the Brown-Sequard phenomenon , it is , at any rate , very difficult to see how it is transmitted to the offspring .
13 .
Experiments are quoted in examination of the alleged transmission of the phenomenon to the offspring in guinea-pigs and in rats\#151 ; the presence of the " incomplete " phenomenon being shown for the rat .
14 .
As regards a state of raised excitability of the scratch-reflex in the young which survived these are negative .
But emphasis is not placed upon these merely negative results , especially as they are comparatively small in number .
15 .
Of peculiar significance are three observations .
In the first place , guinea-pigs which had a " trophic " change in the foot , as a result of the severance of the great sciatic nerve , have been seen repeatedly to nibble the feet of other guinea-pigs in the same cage which also had this change in the foot from the same causes .
16 .
The second observation is that accidental injury to the toes in a normal animal may be followed by the appearance of the Brown-S4quard phenomenon .
17 .
The third observation is that , in several instances , the young of guinea-pigs which had the phenomenon present have been noticed to have one or more toes eaten off by the mother .
These young were probably alive at birth , but were dead shortly after .
In some cases injury to the toe or to the foot was the only mutilation produced by the parent .
18 .
These three observations\#151 ; that the phenomenon may be produced by accidental injury to the toes , that the parents evidence an abnormal habit of nibbling not only their own feet ( in the anaesthetic parts ) but also the feet of other similar guinea-pigs , and that the guinea-pigs may nibble the feet of their young\#151 ; seem almost to prove a suggestion which has been put forward by Morgan , and seems to be hinted at by Taft .
19 .
It may be admitted that Brown-Sequard and others have actually seen the presence of the phenomenon in the offspring of these guinea-pigs .
But it may be supposed with every degree of probability that this was due to accidental injuries inflicted upon the young by their parents .
The statement 1911 .
] the Transmission of Acquired Characters .
577 of Brown-Sequard that there were always malformations of the toes in these cases supports this view .
20 .
From direct observation , and from a consideration of the high rate of mortality , it may be supposed that the young of guinea-pigs which show the phenomenon are less healthy than are normal guinea-pigs .
There may then be a less efficient grooming of the skin , and , in consequence , the excitability of the scratch-reflex will be raised , as in other animals .
This makes of little value evidence that the phenomenon appears sooner after division of the nerve in the young of guinea-pigs which already have the phenomenon than in the young of normal guinea-pigs , even if that evidence be definitely established .
21 .
We may conclude by saying:\#151 ; An examination of the " Brown-Sequard phenomenon " in guinea-pigs\#151 ; usually considered to be a classical instance of the alleged transmission of an acquired character\#151 ; throws much doubt upon its value in this controversy .
The phenomenon is not an acquired peculiarity produced novo on division of a great sciatic nerve .
It is due to the raised excitability of a mechanism\#151 ; that of the scratch-reflex\#151 ; already present ; and this raised excitability is probably due to the removal of an inhibiting influence by section of the nerve .
The phenomenon , therefore , cannot be considered as transmissible as an acquirement 'per se .
If anything is transmitted as an acquired character it must be the state of raised excitability of the scratch-reflex .
The presence of the phenomenon in the offspring observed by Brown-Sequard may be admitted , but this may be explained otherwise than by assuming a transmission of acquired characteristics .
That the alternative explanation\#151 ; the presence in the offspring is due to a production of the state by injury to the toes and feet inflicted by the parent\#151 ; is true is rendered possible , and indeed highly probable , by certain parallel evidence submitted in this paper .
REFERENCES .
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
7 .
8 .
Brown-Sequard , C. E. , ' Count .
Rend .
Soc. Biol. , ' 1850 , p. 105 .
" " ' Gaz .
Med. de Paris , ' 1850 , p. 651 .
" " ' Count .
Rend .
Soc. Biol. , ' 1850 , p. 134 .
" " ibid. , 1850 , p. 169 .
" " 'Gaz .
Med. de Paris , ' 1850 , p. 895 .
" " ' Journ. de la Physiol. , ' 1858 , p. 241 .
" " ibid. , 1860 , p. 167 .
" " ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1860 , vol. 10 , p. 297 .
Transmission of Acquired Characters .
9 .
Brown-S6quard , C. E. , ' Arch. Gen. de Med. , ' 1861 , vol. 1 , p. 490 .
10 .
Darwin , Charles , * The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication , 1868 vol. 2 , p. 24 .
11 .
Brown-S6quard , C. E. , 'Arch , de Phys. norm , et path .
, ' 1869 , vol. 2 , p. 211 .
12 .
33 33 ibid. , 1869 , vol. 2 , p. 422 .
13 .
35 33 ibid. , 1869 , vol. 2 , p. 496 .
14 .
33 33 ' Count .
Rend .
Soc. Biol. , ' 1870 , p. 5 .
15 .
33 33 ibid.,1870 , p. 46 .
16 .
33 33 ibid. , 1870 , p. 59 .
17 .
33 33 ibid. , 1870 , p. 64 .
18 .
33 33 ibid.,1870 , p. 90 .
19 .
33 33 ibid. , 1870 , p. 124 .
20 .
33 33 ' Arch , de Phys. norm , et path .
, ' 1870 , vol. 3 , p. 153 .
21 .
33 33 ibid. , 1870 , vol. 3 , p. 302 .
22 .
33 33 ibid. , 1871 , vol. 3 , p. 116 .
23 .
Westphal , C. , ' Berl .
Klin .
Wochenschr .
, ' 1871 , vol. 8 , p. 449 .
24 .
" ibid. , 1871 , vol. 8 , p. 461 .
25 .
Brown-S6quard , C. E. , ' Lancet , ' 1875 , vol. 1 , p. 7 .
26 .
Obersteiner , H. , 'Mediz .
Jahrbiicher , ' 1875 , p. 179 .
27 .
Galton , F. , ' Contemporary Review , ' 1875 , vol. 27 , p. 80 .
28 .
Freusberg , A. , ' Arch. f. exper .
Pathol .
, ' 1876 , vol. 6 , p. 49 .
29 .
Gergens , E. , 'Arch .
f. die ges .
Physiol. , ' 1876 , vol. 14 , p. 340 .
30 .
Langendorff , 0 .
, ' Arch. f. ( Anat .
u. ) Physiol. , ' 1877 , p. 435 .
31 .
v. Botticher , W. , ' Ueber Reflexhemmung , ' Jena , 1878 ( quoted from ' Jahresber .
der Physiol. , ' 1879 , p. 31 ) .
32 .
Brown-Sequard , C. E. , 'Compt .
Rend .
Acad. Sci. , ' 1882 , p. 697 .
33 .
Mayer , S. , 'Prager Zeitschr .
f. Heilkunde , ' 1883 , vol. 4 , p. 187 ( quoted from ' Jahresber .
der Physiol. , ' 1883 , p. 33 ) .
34 .
Weismann , A. , 'Essays on Heredity , ' vol. 1 , pp. 82 , 319(English translation ) , Oxford , 1891 .
35 .
Romanes , J. G. , ' Darwin and after Darwin , ' London , 1892\#151 ; 1897 .
36 .
Brown-Sequard , C. E. , ' Count .
Rend .
Acad. Sci. , ' 1892 , vol. 115 , p. 394 .
37 .
" " ' Arch , de Phys. norm , et path .
, ' 1892 , vol. 24 , p. 686 .
38 .
Sommer , Max , ' Beitr .
sir Path .
Anat .
, ' 1900 , vol. 27 , p. 289 .
39 .
Obersteiner , H. , ' Neurolog .
Centralbl .
, ' 1900 , p. 498 .
40 .
Morgan , T. H. , ' Evolution and Adaptation , ' New York , 1903 .
41 .
Weismann , A. , The Evolution Theory , ' 1904 ( English translation , Arthur and Margaret R. Thomson ) , vol. 2 , p. 67 .
42 .
Bramwell , E. , and Graham Brown , T. , 'Review of Neurology and Psychiatry , ' December , 1905 .
43 .
Sherrington , C. S. , ' Journ. Physiol. , ' 1906 , vol. 34 , p. 11 44 .
" ' The Integrative Action of the Nervous System , ' London , 1906 .
45 .
Graham Brown , T. , ' Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1909 , vol. 2 , p. 243 .
46 .
" ' Journ. Physiol. ' ( ' Proc. Physiol. Soc. ' ) , 1909 .
47 .
" ' Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 21 .
48 .
" ibid. , 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 139 .
49 .
Sherrington , C. S. , ibid. , 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 213 .
50 .
Magnus , R. , 'Arch .
f. die ges .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 134 , p. 584 .
51 .
Abel , W. , and Graham Brown , T. , ' Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 271 .
52 .
Taft , A. E. , ' Boston Med. and Surg .
Journ. , ' 1910 , vol. 163 , p. 868 .
Note on Astrosclera willeyana Lister .
53 .
Graham Brown , T. , ' Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 319 .
54 .
" ibid. , 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 19 .
55 .
" ibid. , 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 151 .
56 .
Maciesza , A. , and Wrzosek , A. , 'Arch .
f. Rassen- u. Gesellschafts-Biol .
, ' 1911 , vol. 8 , p. 1 .
57 .
" " ibid. , 1911 , vol. 8 , p. 145 .
58 .
" " ibid. , 1911 , vol. 8 , p. 438 .
59 .
Graham Brown , T. , 'Quart .
Journ. Exper .
Physiol. , ' 1911 , vol. 4 , p. 273 .
60 .
" ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , B , vol. 84 , p. 308 .
Note on Astrosclera willeyana Lister .
By B. Kirkpatrick .
( Communicated by S. F. Harmer , F.R.S. Received December 14 , 1911 , \#151 ; Read January 18 , 1912 .
) ( Printed by permission of the Trustees of the British Museum .
) As the result of an investigation of 47 specimens of Astrosclera willeyana dredged by me off Christmas Island , Indian Ocean , I have found that this organism is a Siliceous Ectyonine Sponge with a supplementary skeleton of aragonite .
The sponge owes its unique character to the fact of its being associated with a degenerate Floridean Alga .
Sponge cells capture and envelop the algal tetraspores and carpospores and secrete around them concentric layers of aragonite .
The spherules so formed are in many respects comparable with the cyst-pearls of Mollusca .
Just as certain Ectyonine sponges make supplementary skeletons out of foreign particles of sand , Foraminifera , etc. , so Astrosclera builds a similar kind of skeleton out of the spherules .
The alga probably comes under the Ceramiales Oltm .
, and appears to belong to a new genus and species , of which a provisional diagnosis is given below:\#151 ; Bhododiplobia* n. gen .
, Alga degenerata , in spongia ( scilicet Astrosclera willeyana Listeri ) symbiotica , partim in carne , partim in calcis sceleto duro sita .
Thalli plantarum sexualium minimi , et in spongke carne viventes .
Thallus ?
carpogonia binis trichophoris et trichogynis ornata , thallus $ antheridia ramosa gerens .
Thallus asexualis in calcis sceleto duro perterebrans simulque in carne * poSo ( in comp .
) , red ( alga ) ; StjrXoor , double ; / 3\#171 ; life ; referring to the habitat in the solid calcareous skeleton , and in the soft tissues of the sponge .

