1903 .
] A New Class of Organo-Compounds .
" A New Class of Organo-Tin Compounds containing Halogens .
" By William J. Pope , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Municipal School , Manchester , and Stanley J. Peachey .
Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read May 14 , 1903 .
( From the Chemical Laboratories , Municipal School of Technology , Manchester .
) Most of the organo-tin compounds which have hitherto been described may be regarded as derived from the hypothetical stanni-methane , Sn H4 , and , adopting a nomenclature based upon the name of this substance , the simple types of known organo-tin compounds may be described as the tetralkylstannimethanes , the trialkylstannimethyl chlorides , bromides and iodides , and the dialkylstannimethy ] en chlorides , bromides and iodides .
The analogy between the various classes of derivatives of stannimethane and of methane is as yet incomplete in that no organo-tin compounds corresponding in constitution to chloroform , bromoform and iodoform have been described ; methods for preparing such derivatives are , however , given in the present paper , so that the analogy of constitution existing between the corresponding classes of alkyl and halogen compounds of carbon and tin is shown to be complete , and of the kind illustrated by the following table .
C(CI[ ; S ) , .
Tetrametbylmetliane .
C(CH:j):jI .
Trimethylmethyl iodide .
C(CH3)2I2 .
Dimetliylm efcliyl ene iodide .
C(CH3)I3 .
Metliyliodoform .
CI4 .
Carbon tetriodide .
CH3.CO .
OH .
Acetic acid .
Sn(CH3)4 .
Sn(Cff3)3I .
Sn(CH3)2I2 .
Sn(CH3)I3 .
Snl4 .
CH3.SnO .
OH .
Tetramethylstanni- methylmethane .
Trimethylstannimethyl iodide .
Dimethylstannimethyl-ene iodide .
Metliylstanniodoform .
Stannic iodide .
Metliylstannoxjlic acid .
Methylstanniodoform , CH3.SnI3 .
Since tetramethylstannimethane is acted upon by iodine with production of trimethylstannimethyl iodide and methyl iodide in accordance with the following equation\#151 ; Sn(CH3)4 + I2 = Sn(CH3)3I + OH3I , it seemed not unlikely that , on replacing the iodine by stannic iodide , the reaction would take the course indicated by the following equation\#151 ; Sn(CH3)4 + SnI4 = Sn(CH3)3I + Sn(CH3)I3 .
This Avas found to be the case .
On warming a mixture of tetramethylstannimethane ( tu^o parts ) and stannic iodide ( seven parts ) on the water bath , the iodide rapidly dissolves 8 Prof. W. .
J. Pope and Mr. S. J. Peachey .
A [ Apr. 20 ; and after a few hours standing at theordinary temperature , methylstanniodoform crystallises in large straw-coloured prisms ; the separation of the latter is rendered more complete by the addition of petroleum ether , and , after filtration , the stanniodoform derivative is purified by crystallisation from ether or light petroleum , It crystallises in long needles or prisms closely resembling iodoform in colour and melts at 8 ?
~84 .
; ?
gradually volatilises at 100 ' and , when slowly heated , distils without decomposition .
It is odourless and dissolves very readily in alcohol , acetone and benzene .
The following analytical results were 0-3083 gave 0-0254 C02 and 0-0172 H20 .
C = 2-24 .
H= 0-62 0-2964 required 17-5 x 0*0169 AgN03 for titration .
' I = 74.4 .
* Theory for Sn(CH3)I3 .
C = 2-33 .
H = 0-58 .
I = 74-0 .
Metliylstannoxylic Ac , CH3.SnO .
OH .
Methyls tanniodoform is insoluble in cold water , but dissolves in boiling water giving a solution from which the iodoform derivative cannot subsequently be crystallised ; as this behaviour should be attributable to the occurrence of hydrolysis in the following sense , CH3.SnI3 + 3H20 = CH3.Sn(OH)3 + 3HI , methylstanniodoform was evaporated on the water bath with an aqueous solution of three molecular proportions of soda ; as evaporation proceeded a white precipitate of methylstann-oxylic acid was deposited , the reaction being represented by the following equation:\#151 ; CH3.SnI3 + 3NaHO = CHg .
SnO .
OH + 3NaI + H20 .
After washing with water , solution in acetic acid and precipitation with ammonia , the substanee gave the following analytical results:\#151 ; 0-3887 gave 0-0990 C02and 0-0822 H20 and 0-3532 Sn02 .
C = 6*94 .
H = 2-36 .
Sn * 71-60 .
0-3396 gave 0-0869 C02 , 0-0800 H20 and 0-3024 Sn02 .
C - 6-97 .
H = 2'63 .
Sn = 70-16 .
CH3.SnOOH requires C = 7-18 .
H = 2*41 .
Sn = 71-24 .
By the action of methyl iodide on sodium stannite , G. Meyer* obtained a white powder in which he made one determination of tin , and which he considered to be probably the acid which we now describe .
On repeating Meyer 's preparation we found that the substance obtained is identical with the methylstannoxylic acid prepared from methylstanniodoform .
To the very scanty description given by Meyer we would add the following .
The acid is conveniently prepared by dissolving stannous chloride * ' Bericlite , ' vol. 16 , p. 1439 .
1903 .
] Class of Organo-Tin Compounds containing Halogens .
9 \#166 ; ( 100 grams ) in the minimum quantity of water , and adding concentrated .caustic soda solution until the precipitate formed at first just redissolves .
To the solution thus obtained ( 300 c.c. ) , absolute alcohol { 200 c.c. ) and methyl iodide ( 90 grams ) are added ; the liquid becomes warm and , after two days repose at the ordinary temperature , is saturated with carbon dioxide , filtered and evaporated on the water bath .
During the evaporation , methylstannoxylic acid separates in white crystalline crusts and is obtained in a practically pure condition after filtration and washing with boiling water .
The acid is insoluble in water and the ordinary organic solvents , but dissolves slowly in boiling .acetic and formic acids .
On adding ammonia to the acetic acid solution after dilution with water , no precipitate forms , but on boiling , methylstannoxylic acid separates in a state of purity ; the fact that no precipitate occurs until the solution is boiled , indicates the existence in \#166 ; solution of an ortho-acid CH3.Sn(OH)3 , which is only decomposed on heating .
Methylstannoxylic acid decomposes slowly at 120\#151 ; 130 ' , but no volatile tin compound is evolved ; on rapid heating it chars and , when ignited , smoulders leaving a residue of stannic oxide .
On boiling the .acid with dilute caustic potash the greater part dissolves , but the solution never becomes quite clear ; when the acid is boiled with stronger potash solution , a rapid evolution of methane occurs , a sublimate of trimethylstannicarbinol , ( CH3)3Sn .
OH , forms and the solution is afterwards found to contain dimethylstannimethylene oxide ( CH3)oSnO .
Lastly , on mixing the acid with solid potash and heating , after the addition of a small quantity of water , methane containing a considerable proportion of tetramethylstannimethane is given off ; the latter substance was identified by freezing it out of the gas and determining its boiling point and behaviour towards iodine .
The fact that methylstannoxylic acid is not wholly soluble in dilute potash is attributable to a part of it being decomposed with evolution of methane and production of stannic oxide which remains undissolved by the potash .
The evolution of methane which attends the heating of methylstannoxylic acid with potash , is quite analogous to the decomposition which occurs when sodium acetate is heated with soda-lime , whilst the formation of dimethylstannimethylene oxide is analogous to the production of acetone by heating calcium acetate ; it is , however , difficult to find analogies for the formation of trimethylstannimethyl alcohol and tetramethylstannimethane during the heating of the stannoxylic acid with potash .
The four kinds of change would seem to take place in accordance with the following equations:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) CH3.SnO .
OH = CH4 + Sn02 .
( 2 .
) 2CH3.SnO .
OH = ( CH3).2Sn0 + Sn0o + H20 .
( 3 .
) 3CH3.SnO .
OH = ( CH3)3Sn(0H ) + 2Sn02 + H20 .
( L ) 4CH3.SnO .
OH = ( CH3)4Sn + 3Sn02 + 2H00 .
10 A New Class of Organo-Tin Compounds .
[ Apr. 20 , Equation ( 2 ) is similar to that suggested by Pfeiffer , * in order to explain the fact that he obtained diethylstannimethylene oxide instead of ethylstannoxylic acid by the action of ethyl iodide on sodium stannate .
A number of attempts were made to prepare salts of methylstann-oxylic acid , but these have been uniformly unsuccessful owing to the very feebly marked acidic characters of the substance .
The acidic properties of methylstannoxylic acid are , in fact , so very slight that the substance tends to react in the ortho-form rather than in the stannoxylic condition , although the reverse is true in the case of carboxylic acids .
Thus , on treating methylstannoxylic acid with concentrated hydriodic acid , it is immediately converted into methyl-stanniodoform , so that the reaction , by means of which we first prepared the acid , is a reversible one ; since methylstannoxylic acid is very easily prepared in quantity by the action of methyl iodide on alcoholic sodium stannite solution , the most convenient method of preparing the stanniodoform derivative consists in treating methylstannoxylic acid with strong hydriodic acid , and , after filtration , crystallising the product from a mixture of benzene and light petroleum .
Methylstannibromoform , CH3 .
SnBr3 .
Methylstannoxylic acid dissolves readily in concentrated hydro-bromic acid , and on extracting the solution with light petroleum and evaporating the solvent , methylstannibromoform separates .
After crystallisation from petroleum it is obtained in the form of long colourless prisms which melt at 50\#151 ; 55 ' and may be distilled without decomposing .
The substance fumes slightly in the air and dissolves to a clear solution in water .
Methylstannibromoform is readily soluble-in the ordinary organic solvents .
The following analytical results were obtained:\#151 ; 0-4664 gave 0-0563 C02 and 0-0382 H20 .
C = 3*29 .
H = 0-91 .
CH3.SnBr8 requires C = 3-21 and H = 0-80 .
Methylstannichloroformy CHs .
SnCls .
Methylstannoxylic acid dissolves in concentrated hydrochloric acid with evolution of heat , and , after saturating the solution with anhydrous calcium chloride and extracting with benzene , the benzene solution yields a residue when evaporated which slowly crystallises in the desiccator .
On gently warming methylstannoxylic acid in a current of dry hydrogen chloride , reaction occurs and methylstannichloroform distils , condensing in the receiver as a colourless crystalline material. .
# ' Berichte , ' vol. 35 , p. 3303 .
1903 .
] Photo-electric Discharge from Metallic The same product is formed on treating the acid with phosphorus trichloride .
Methylstannichloroform crystallises from light petroleum in long colourless prisms melting at 105\#151 ; 107 ' and distils without decomposition at 179\#151 ; 180 ' .
It fumes in the air , dissolves to a clear solution in water , and is very soluble in the ordinary organic solvents .
" On the Photo-electric Discharge from Metallic Surfaces in different Gases .
" By W. Mansergh Yarley , M.Sc .
( Vict.)r Ph. D. ( Strasburg ) , 1851 Exhibition Eesearch Scholar , Emmanuel College , Cambridge .
Communicated by Professor J. J. Thomson , F.E.S. Eeceived April 24 , \#151 ; Eead May 14 , 1903 .
( Abstract .
) The object of the experiments described in this paper was to study as systematically as possible the effect of the pressure and nature of the gas with which a metal surface is surrounded upon the magnitude of the photo-electric current from the surface .
On account of the complicated nature of the relation between the photo-electric current and the potential difference between the electrodes , it is not enough to state , for example , that the current in air at 760 mms .
pressure is so many times that in air at 50 mms .
pressure , without specifying the exact conditions under which the observations were taken .
The method used in these experiments was to draw the complete curves connecting the current and the potential difference at each pressure examined , keeping the intensity of the ultraviolet illumination and the other conditions unaltered .
Great difficulty was encountered in finding a suitable source of ultraviolet light which would remain constant in intensity while long series of observations were being taken , but ultimately the spark between iron terminals in an atmosphere of pure dry hydrogen was found to answer excellently .
The spark gap was in parallel with three Leyden jars in the secondary circuit of an induction coil , used as a transformer .
The photo-electric currents were measured from a metal\#151 ; usually zinc\#151 ; surface placed a few millimetres behind a fine gauze , through which the light passed , and which served as the positive electrode .
A brass vessel , with a quartz window to admit the light , served to-contain the electrodes .
It was connected to pump , gauge , \amp ; c. , so that the pressure or gas could be changed at will .
A second similar apparatus was used as a control for the intensity of the light .

