]\gt ; 61$ rays tMtles ranging Wid Was uged of by means of a magnetic fleld of rent mr6 mparated out and their absorption .
Without WWbrirg it ptWent i details , it cmn be stated that the atioh did exponentially with the thickness of matter .
rsed , but exoept for a small portion at the end of the curve , followed approximatel liw .
Th6 following experiments deal with this question and with the Yariation the ibsoption of the ' -rays with velocity .
Arrangemend .
The genetal angement of the apparatus finally use is and 2 .
FIG. 2 .
A lead blbck , containing a hole cm .
in diameter , rested on the pole-pieces of an electromagnet .
In was placed a glass tube containing about 30 milligrammes radium bromide .
The preparation of .
radium employed was of about 7 per oent .
purity , and it was found that most of the -particles were absorbed before getJing out of the active matter itself , so in the later experiments a corresponding quantity of radium emanation in equilibrium with its products , oontained in a thin-walled bulb blown on end of a capillary tube , was used source of radiation .
The chief experimental difficulty was the presence of a large -ray effect which , when radium was used , often amounted to as much as . .
4909 Homogeneous -Rays by Matter , etc. magnetio fleld .
At the same time it was so thin that the -ray effect on the -pieces , etc. , was practioally unaltered .
In the second type of apparatus care had to be taken to place the slot in such a position that the lead plate did not come in the direct path between the radium and the electroscope .
The value of the ionisation now found in the electroscope gives the amount to be deducted for both direct and secondary -radiation .
A certain amount of secondary -radiation is set up in the screen itself by the -rays , but since only that portion of this reaches the electroscope which has exactly the same properties as the rays we are considering , it will not affect the results .
The procedure in making an experiment was as follows : The field was adjusted to the right strength , and the ionisation in the electroscope measured .
A reading was then taken with the lead plate in position , and the ionisation thus found subtracted from the previous reading .
This was repeated for every layer of absorbing material which was placed under the electrosoope .
Form of Absorption Curves .
As stated before , the ionisation in the electroscope was found not to fall off , according to an exponential law , with the thickness of matter traversed , but more rapidly the greater the distance penetrated .
For the rays of higher velocity the relation was linear , except when the radiation had been cut down to a large extent , when it fell off more slowly with increasing thicknesses of matter .
Curves showing the absorption of the rays for some different velocities are shown in fig. 3 and in fig. 4 .
In the latter , the logarithm of the ionisation is plotted against the thickness of matter traversed .
This brings out the difference between the law of absorption found and the exponential law more strongly .
For the very easily absorbed rays the linear law was not so strongly marked , and the reason for this will be discussed later .
ability of the eriments .
Experiments were then performed to determine whether the effect observed is really a property of the rays or due to the experimental conditions .
Three causes which might possibly influence the absorption curves .
Lack of saturation of the ionisation current .
2 .
The shape and size of the electroscope and of the opening by which the rays enter .
3 .
The proximity of the magnetic field to the electroscope , which might cause irregularities by bending the rays inside it .
VOL. LXXXIL\mdash ; A. 2 -Rays by Matter , etc. tion was found to be complete .
A rther test which fully confirms the other was m\amp ; de by measuring the absorption curves for the same type of rays , the of urces being in the atio of about one to eight .
Th6 point was tefflffi for by placing a tray containing a preparation of acthium under the lectroscope and determining the absorption of the -rays emitted by it .
It was found to be an exponential law with the coefficient of absorption 30 cm .
, which is the value obtained when measured in the.ordinary way .
A magnetio field was then applied to the .
third point , and the same law ption still held good .
A small amount of radium emanation in equilibnum with its products was also placed under the electroscope and no difference in the absorption ourves for the -rays emitted by it resulted when magnetic field applied .
Further , abvrption curves obtained , using the two types of apparatus shown in figs. 1 and 2 , are practically the same , although the nragnetic field required to deflect the same type of rays into the electroscope is much greater in the first place than in the second .
It also sesmed possible that the effect might be due to the rays striking the absorbing screen at right angles and becoming more and more scattered as they penetrate the matter .
This would cause their path to become more tortuous and the rate of absorption would be thereby increased .
That this is not the case was seen by allowing a practically parallel beam of actinium rays to fall normally on a screen placed under a larger electroscope , when the absorption still took place according to the general exponential law found for these rays .
Variahon of Absorption with Velocity .
We have seen that the absorption of homogeneous -rays , when measured by the ionisation , takes place according to a linear law .
The relation between ionisation and thickness of matter traversed is given by , where is the thickness of matter for which the ionisation would become zero if the law were rigorously true , and the initial ionisation .
determines the rate of absorption of the rays and is a constant for rays of a given velocity .
Absorption curves were determined for rays of different velocities , using aluminium , copper , and tin as absorbing substances .
The values obtained the variation of for aluminium with velocity are given in Table I. The velocity was calculated from the value of magnetic field radius of curvature of the ray@ by means of the formula HB where is the strength of the field and R , the radius of curvature of the rays .
1909 : ] Homogeneous -Rays by Matter , etc. Fro .
6 .
FIG. 6 .
In Table II the values of for different velooities of rays when copper and tin were used as the absorbing media are given .
Th.e linear law of absorption Homogeneous -Rays by Matter , etc. It wiil be interesting to consider the effect of the density of the absorbing o on the absorption curves , but more experiments will have to be performed before anything definite can be said on this point .
Table II .
Table II are plotted in ainst FIG. 8 .
Explanatim of the onential Law found by us Observers for tloe Absorption of Rays from Radio-active Substanees .
Before entering into a discussion as to the meaning of the absorption curves obtained , it is preferable to try to explain why various observers have found that the rays from uranium X , radium , and actinium are absorbed according to an exponential law with the thickness of matter traversed .
Homogeneous -Rays by Matter , etc. Table III .
The values given in this table are plotted in fig. 10 , and it will be seen that the curve is an exact exponential whose absorption coefficient is 5 MM .
FIG. 10 .
cm .
, a value not very different from that observed for the -rays of uranium by Rutherford , , and Schmidt , 14 .
The curve extends over quite a wide range , the final area being about one-thirteenth of the initial one .
It is thus that the exponential curve for absorption of rays is not , as has been widely assumed , a test of their homogeneity , but that in order that the exponential law of absorption should hold , we require a mixtm.e VOL. LXXXII.\mdash ; A. 2 ln 9 .
] Homogemo'us by Matter , etc. Sohmidtr and MoClelland and Hackettf have with considel'able success worked out a theory in which particles are assumed to pass through matter with a constant velocity , a sudden stopping of a certain proportion of the rays taking place in each thin layer of the matter .
This view has received considerable support from some experiments of Makower , , by measuring the actual number of the -particles from radium through various thicknesses of matter , has shown that this number varies in exactly the same manner as the ionisation .
Sir J. J. Thomson has considered the question from a theoretical standpoint and finds that if the absorption is due to scattering and stopping alone , the law it follows should be exponential with the thickness of matter traversed .
CrowtherS finds that scattering is " " complete\ldquo ; after the rays have passed through very small thicknesaes of matter , and Hahn and L. Meitner have shown that when a parallel beam of the -rays from actinium strikes the absorbing screen perpendicularly there is only a slight deyiation from the exponential law of absorption .
These experiments are against the view that the increase of the absorption coefficient for greater thicknesses of matter which we have found is due to the rays striking the absorbing screen normally and ' more and more scattered as they pass through the matter .
Change of the Velocity of the Rays in through Matter .
has also attacked this problem , using as a source of radiation the rays from radium E. He deflected the rays in a similar manner to that described above into an electroscope by means of a netic field and obtained a curve connecting ionisation in the electroscope and strength of field .
From the strength of field for which the ionisation was a maximum he deduced the velocity of the rays , and found that the position of the maximum point did not alter if he allowed the rays to pass through different thicknesses of aluminium before entering the magnetic field .
From this he concluded that the velocity of the rays does not change appreciably in passing rough matter .
The absorption curves obtained in my experiments , however , suggest that the velocity of the rays decreases with thickness of *\amp ; hmidt , 'Jahr .
der Rad 1908 ; and ' AIm .
der Physik , ' 1907 , vol. 23 , p. 671 .
McClelhnd and Hackett , ' Roy .
Soc. DubL Trans. , vol. 9 , No. 4 , 190 Makower , 'Phil .
Mag January , 1909 .
S Crowther , ' Roy . .
Proc , p. 308 , Schmidt , ' Phys. ' June , 1907 .
1909 .
] Homogeneous -Rays by , etc. then allowed to pass through screens of these thicknesses placed at fig. 2 ) before fieu .
If the do not decrease in velocity in passing through the matter , the curves obtained in this ease connecting ionisation with strength of magnetic field should fall on and .
If the velocity decreases , however , thby should fall to the left of these .
This was found to be the case , the curves being shown in the figure at and , and the particles therefore decrease in velocity as they pass through the matter .
The velocity is found from the position of the maxima to fall from cm .
per sec. to cm .
per sec. while the rays passed through mm. of aluminium , and from cm .
per sec. to cm .
per sec. while they pass through mm. This experiment also explains why the experiments of Schmidt apparently show no change in the velocity of the rays .
According to the views expressed in this paper he was dealing with heterogeneous rays and the position of the maximum should therefore move to the higher fields if the velocity of the rays does not change .
The actual decrease in velocity , however , brings the maximum point back to practically the same position as before .
Deviation from the Linear Law .
The bending away of the final portions of the absorption curves from the straight line may be due to three causes :\mdash ; 1 .
The size of the hole from which the -rays emerge , and by which they enter the electroscope , makes the beam of rays used in these experiments not quite homogeneous .
This would cause the more rapidly moving rays to become relatively more and more important as the rays traverse the matter , and a departure from the straight line should therefore be observed .
Experiments made without the screens MMM ( figs. 1 and give curves which depart earlier from the straight line .
The rays in this case are more heterogeneous , and this is what we should expect .
2 .
The -ray effect , which has to be subtracted from each reading of the ionisation , also increases relatively in importance as the rays penetrate matter , and its exact value is very hard to determine .
If its taken slightly too small it would produce a deviation from the linear law , in the direction observed .
3 .
As Sir J. J. Thomson points out in " " Conduction of Electricity through Gases p. 878 , the mechanism of the absorption is not the same for the slow rays which cannot penetrate the atom and rapid ones which can do so .
The departure from the law may be due to this cause , and also to changes in the ionisation produced by the rays on account of their decrease iu velocity .
VOL. LXXXIL\mdash ; A. 2 X

