Direct GuaiacumReaction given by Plant Extracts .
121 whether a small movement of the slit caused a greater difference in hue , with or without white , the above results were confirmed , i.e. , in the case of yellow and red , no increase due to the white was observable , and in the case of the green a small addition of white seemed to make the difference in hue very slightly more pronounced .
The above observations seem to indicate that difference in our power of appreciating differences in hue , according as we are comparing two monochromatic patches , or a single patch in which the hue changes gradually from one side to the other , is not due to admixture of white light .
On the Direct Guaiacum Reaction given by Plant Extracts .
By Miss M. Wheldale , Fellow of Newnham College , Cambridge .
( Communicated by W. Bateson , F.R.S. Received April 25 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1911 .
) In the literature dealing with oxidising enzymes considerable attention has been drawn to the fact that the juices of some plants blue guaiacum tincture directly ( direct action ) , whereas the juices of other plants only bring about the blueing on addition of hydrogen peroxide ( indirect action ) .
As an explanation of this phenomenon Cliodat and Bach formulated a hypothesis which has , in part , been generally accepted .
These authors maintain that direct blueing of guaiacum is brought about through the activity of a system consisting of oxygenase , peroxide , and peroxidase .
The peroxidase is an enzyme capable only of transferring oxygen from the peroxide to the guaiacum .
The peroxide , after reduction , is again re-oxidised by a second enzyme , the oxygenase .
The juices of such plants as give a direct action contain , according to Chodat and Bach , all three components of the system .
In others , the peroxidase alone is present , and hence the guaiacum cannot be oxidised until a peroxide , such as hydrogen peroxide , is artificially supplied .
In a recent paper Moore and Whitley* have cast considerable doubt upon the existence of any such enzyme as an oxygenase and give experimental evidence as proof of the view that all plants contain a peroxidase , * Moore and Whitley , " The Properties and Classification of the Oxidising Enzymes , " '"Biochem .
Journ. , ' vol. 4 , 1909 .
Miss M. Wheldale .
[ Apr. 25 , but only those give a direct action of which the tissues contain more or less organic peroxide .
The experiments I have made with oxidising enzymes corroborate these doubts .
I have found that the power to give the direct guaiacum action in any plant is always accompanied by another phenomenon , i.e. the formation of brown or reddish-brown pigment when the tissues are injured mechanically or are subjected to chloroform vapour .
Both phenomena are peculiar to certain genera , other genera giving the indirect action only and being unaffected in the same way by injury or by exposure to chloroform vapour .
On the whole the direct action is especially characteristic of the Composite , Umbelliferse , Labiatse and Boraginaceee , and certain genera 'of the Scrophulariaceas , Iiosacese , Leguminosse , Banunculacese , and of many other natural orders .
It is absent from or rare in the Cruciferse , Caryophyllacese , Crassulacese , and Ericaceae.* The direct action is also more frequent among the Dicotyledons than the Monocotyledons .
The results of my observations have led to the conclusion that the direct action given by the extracts of the plants I have examinedf is due to the presence of the dihydric phenol , pyrocatechin , in the tissues of the plants .
That the darkening of plant juices is due to the presence of pyrocatechin has been previously suggested by G-rafe .
J The same suggestion has also been made by Wee vers S in connection with his work on the relationship between pyrocatechin and salicin in Salix and Populus .
Pyrocatechin rapidly oxidises on exposure to air , and then acts as an organic peroxide , enabling the peroxidase , which is almost universally present , to transfer oxygen to the guaiacum .
The plants , such as I have examined , from which pyrocatechin is absent do not give the direct action .
* A similar distribution of direct action has been noted by Passerini , " Sulla presenza di fermenti zimici ossidanti nolle piante fanerogame , " * Nuov .
Gion .
Botan. Ital .
, ' 1899 .
Also by Clark , " The Plant Oxidases , " 'Dissertation , ' New York , 1910 .
+ The plants examined included Aconitum fcetidus , Mahonia aguifolium , Chelidonium majus , Prunus Comus mas , Chcerophyllum sylvestre,.Ligustrum A uchusa officinalis , Myosotis dissitiflora , Rosmarinus officinalis .
Viburnum Opulus , V. Tvnus , nigra , and Taraxacum officinale , in all of which pyrocatechin , is present .
Pyrocatechin was not detected in Crocus yernus , Oalanthus nivArabis albida , Eranthis hyemalis , Cheiranthus Cheiri , Brassica oleracea , Viola odorata , Primula acaulis , Iris germanica , Lupinus sp. , Narcissus Pseudo-narcissus , nor in Arum maculatum .
f Grafe , " Ubeir die Dunkelfarbung von Rubensaften , ' 'Oest .
Zeitsch .
f. Zuckerindus .
u. Landwirtschaft , ' 1908 .
\#166 ; S Wee vers , " Die physiologische Bedeutung einiger Glykoside .
" Extrait du ' Recueil des Travaux Botaniques N6erlandais , : vol. 7 , 1910 .
1911 .
] Direct Guaiacum Reaction given by Plant Extracts .
123 These conclusions are based upon three observations:\#151 ; ( 1 ) Pyrocatechin can be detected by the green reaction with ferric chloride ( subsequently purple and red on addition of dilute sodium carbonate ) in extracts from plants giving both the direct action and a brown pigment on exposure to chloroform vapour .
The alcoholic extract of the plants is evaporated to dryness , and the pyrocatechin extracted with ether or acetone after the removal of chlorophyll and other substances soluble in chloroform .
Pyrocatechin was not detected in any appreciable quantity in plants giving the indirect action only .
( 2 ) After evaporation , the ether extract containing pyrocatechin will bring about in many cases a direct blueing of guaiacum when added to a solution containing peroxidase only.* Care must be taken to neutralise the residue ( if acid ) after evaporation of the ether and before addition of the peroxidase and guaiacum .
( 3 ) When a slightly alkaline solution of commercial pyrocatechin is allowed to stand in air , oxidation takes place and a brown colour is developed .
Such a solution added to a peroxidase solution and guaiacum tincture brings about a blueing of the guaiacum .
Similar experiments were made with phenol , resorcinol , hydroquinone , pyrogallol , and phloroglucin ; also with benzoic , salicylic , ra-oxybenzoic , _p-oxybenzoic , protocatechuic , gallic , and tannic acids , and quercetin .
A positive result was obtained with protocatechuic acid only .
There is therefore probably a connection between the ortho-position of the hydroxyl groups and the specific capacity of these substances as regards their power to activate the peroxidase .
According to Czapek , f protocatechuic acid rarely occurs free in the plant , but further experimental investigation would be necessary to establish this point .
Hence wre may conclude that the direct action of certain plant extracts is due to the post-mortem oxidation of a definite metabolic product , and the action as such has probably no significance in the metabolism of the living plant .
There is some evidence in favour of the supposition that the pyrocatechin exists as a glucoside , and that the hydrolysis of this compound into sugar and phenol is accelerated by injury or chloroform vapour .
In many cases very little oxidation takes place in the alcoholic residue obtained by plunging the leaves of a pyrocatechin-containing plant into boiling alcohol and thereby preventing decomposition of the glucoside .
If , however , such a residue is * Extract of white Brompton Stock was used for this purpose .
The guaiacum tincture was always boiled with animal charcoal before using , as recommended by Moore and Whitley , loc. cit. t Czapek , ' Biochemie der Pflanzen .
' Drs. H. Chambers and S. Russ .
Action of [ May 1 , boiled with dilute acid in order to hydrolise the glucoside , considerable oxidation , accompanied by brown coloration , will take place .
Palladin* maintains that the formation of post-mortem pigments from aromatic chromogens is proof of the significance of the latter in respiration .
Some of the plants from which he obtained the greatest quantity of pigment by treatment of the extracts with peroxidase and hydroxyl are of the pyro-catechin-containiug .
type , and the presence of this phenol , when it occurs , would doubtless accelerate the oxidation of the extracts .
But the reactions obtained after death may be no real guide to knowledge of the true metabolic reactions of the living tissues .
The formation of brown pigment on autolysis and injury in pyrocatechin-containing plants is no doubt largely due to the oxidation of the phenol itself , but , in addition , coloration may be caused by the oxidation of other aromatic compounds , i.e. tannins , flavones , etc. , when once the system peroxide-peroxidase has been established .
The Action of Radium Radiations upon Some of the Main Constituents of Normal Blood .
By Helen Chambers , M.D. , and S. Russ , D.Sc .
, Beit Memorial Research Fellow .
( Communicated by Dr. J. R. Bradford , Sec. R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1911 .
) The following experiments were undertaken with a view to determining the effect in vitro of the different radiations from radioactive substances upon some of the main constituents of normal blood .
The observations have so far been extended to the haemolytic action of the a-rays on red corpuscles , to the effect of these rays on leucocytes , and to their action on opsonin and complement .
Numerous experiments have also been made with the ft- and 7-rays , but , generally speaking , the results have been of a negative character .
The Hcemolytic Action of the When radium emanation is mixed with citrated human blood , haemolysis results .
The liberation of haemoglobin is a gradual process , as is evidenced * Palladin , " tJber das Wesen der Pflanzenatmung , " * Biochem. Zeitsch .
, ' 1909 .

