]\gt ; Lord Rayleigh .
On the relative [ Feb. 9 , for it seems probable that such large tooth-rudiments may be traceable in later stages .
In this investigation , the few points of uncertainty as to the minute structure of some of the tissues will in all probability be settled satisfactorily .
* DESCRIPTION OF FIGURE .
The arrow points towards the middle line of the mouth .
M. Mouth . .
Superficial epithelium of oral cavity . .
Sub-epithelial tissues forming tooth-sac immediately outside enamel-cap . .
Outer membrane of enamel-cap . .
Middle membrane of enamel-cap . .
Inner membrane of enamel-cap ; the enamel cells .
The dark layer just external to the enamel cells represents the stratum intermedium of Hannover . .
The dentine , of which the inner part stains faintly and shows the delicate dentinal tubes . .
Space caused by shrinkage between enamel ceUs and the outer part of the tooth rudiment . .
Tooth papilla . .
The odontoblasts forming the superficial layer of the papilla .
III .
" " On the Relative Densities of Hydrogen and Oxygen .
Preliminary Notice By Lord RAYLEIGH , Sec. B. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Receiyed , 1888 .
The appearance of Professor Cooke 's important memoir upon the atomic weights of hydrogen and oxygen induces me to communicat , to the Royal Society a notice of the results that I have obtained with respect to the relative densities of these gases .
My motive for undertaking this investigation , planned in was the same as that which animated Professor Cooke , namely , the desire to examine whether the relative atomic weights of the two bodies really deviated from the simple ratio 1 : 16 , demanded by Prout 's Law .
For this purpose a knowledge of the densities is not of itself sufficient ; but it appeared to me that the other factor involved , viz. , the relative atomic volumes of the two gases , could be with great accuracy by eudiometric methods , and I was aware that Mr. Scott had in view a redetermination of this number , since in great part carried out .
S If tions are *This appears to have been already the case.\mdash ; Feb. 6 , 1888 .
" " The Relative Values of the ALomic Weights of Hydrogen and Oxygen by J. P. Cooke and T. W. Richards , 'Amer .
Acad. Proc vol. 23 , 1887 .
Address to Section , British Association ' Report , ' 1882 .
S " " On the Composition of Water by Volume by A. Scott , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc June ( vol. 42 , p. 396 ) .
1888 .
] Densities of Bydrogen and Oxygen .
conducted with gases under the normal atmospheric conditions as to temperature and pressure , any small departures from the laws of Boyle and Charles will be practically without influence upon the final number representing the ratio of atomic weights .
In weighing the gas the procedure of Regnault was adopted , the working globe being compensated by a similar closed globe of the same external volume , made of the same kind of lass , and of nearly the same .
In this way the weighings are rendered independent of the atmospheric conditions , and only small weights are required .
The weight of the globe used the experiments here to be described about 200 grams , and the contents were about 1800 The balance is by , and readings with successive releasements of the beam and pans , but without removal of the globes , usually agreed to .
Each recorded .
is the meau of the results of several releasements .
The balance was situated in a cellar , where temperature was very constant , but at certain times the air curreuts , described by Professol Cooke , were very plainly noticeable .
The beam lefb over lligbt would be found still in motion when the weighings were commenced on the f } morning .
At other times these currents were absent , and the beam would settle down to almost absolute rest .
di4erence of behaviour was found to depend upon the distribution of temperature at various levels in the room .
A delicate ) el.mopile reflecting cones was arranged so that one cone pointed towards the and the other to the floor .
When the galvanometer indicated that the ceiling was the warmer , the balance betlaved well , and vice .
The reason is of course that air is stable the temperature increases upwards , and unstable when heat is communicated below .
During the winter months the ground was usually than the rest of the room , and air currents developed themselves in the weighing closet .
During the summer the air cooled by contact with the ground remained as a layer below , and the balance was undisturbed .
The principal difference to be noted between my arrangements and those of Professor Cooke is that in my case no desiccators were used within the weighing closet .
The general air of the room was prevented from getting too damp by means of a large blanket , occasionally removed and dried before a fire .
* In Regnault 's experiments the globe was filled with gas to the moSphefiC pressure ( determined by aoeindependent barometer ) , and the temperature maintained at zero by a bath of ice .
The use of ice is no doubt to be recommended in the case of the heavier gases ; but it involves a cleaning of the globe , and therefore diminishes some* I can strongly recommend this ] ) .
In twenty-four hours the blanket frequently absorb two pounds of moisture .
Lord Rayleigh .
On the relative [ Feb. 9 , what the comparability of the weighings , vacuous and fnll , on which everything depends .
Hydrogen is so light that , except perhaps in the mean of a series , the error of weighing is likely to be more serious than the uncertainty of temperature .
I have therefore contented myself with enclosing the body of the globe during the process of filling in a wooden box , into which passed the bulbs of two thermometers , reading to tenths of a degree centigrade .
It seems probable that the mean of the readings represents the temperature of the gas to about degree , or at any rate that the differences of temperature on various occasions and with various gases will be given to at least this degree of accuracy .
Indeed the resulbs obtained with oxygen exclude a greater uncerbainty .
Under these conditions the alternate full and empty weighings can be effected with the minimum of interference with the surface of the globe .
The stalk and tap were only touched with a glove , and the body of bhe globe was scarcely touched at all .
To make the symmetry as complete as possibls , the counterpoising globe was provided with a similar case , and was carried backwards and forwards between the balance room and the laboratory exactly as was necessary for the working globe .
In my earliest experiments ( 1885 ) hydrogen and oxygen were pre pared simultaneously in a -shaped voltameter containing dilube sulphuric acid .
Since the same quantity of acid can be used indefinitely , I hoped in this way to eliminate all extraneous impurity , and to obtain hydrogen contaminated only by small quantities of oxygen , and vice versd .
The final purification of the gases was to be effected by passing them through red-hot tubes , and subsequent desiccation with phosanhydride .
In a few trials I did not succsed in obtaining good hydrogen , a resuIt which I was inclined to attril ) to the inadequacy of a red heat to elfect the combination of the small residue of oxygen .
* Meeting this difficulty , I abandoned the method for a time , purposing to recur to it after I had obtained experience with the mors usual methods of preparing ths gases .
In this part of the investigation my expel.ience runs nearly parallel with that of Professor Cooke .
The difficulty of getting quit of the dissolved air when , as in the ordinary preparation of hydrogen , the acid is fed in slowly at the time of , induced me to design an apparatus whose action can be suspended by breaking an external electrical contact .
It may be arded as a ' cell thoroughly enclosed .
Two points of difference may be noted between this apparatus and that of Professor Cooke .
.In my manner of working it was necessary that the generator should * From Professor Cooke 's experience it appears not improbable that the impurity may have been sulphurous acid .
Is it certain that in his combustions no hydrogen ( towards the close largely diluted with nitrogen ) escapes the }tion of the cupric oxide ' , 1888 .
] sities of drogen and .
359 stand an vacuum .
To guard more thoroughly ainsb the penetration of external air , every comented joint was completely covered with vaseline , and the vaseline again with water .
Again , the zincs were in the form of solid heets , closely the nised plate on which the hydrogen was liberated , and standing in mercury .
It was found far better to work these cells by their own electromotive force , without stimuIation by an external battery .
If the plates are close , and the contact thick , the evoIution of gas may be made more rapid lihan is necessary , or indeed desirable .
Tubes , closed by drowned stopcocks , are provided , in order allow the acid to be renewed without breaking joints ; but one chal.ge is sufficient for a set of experiments ( three to five fillings ) , amd the whole of time occupied ( 10 to 14 days ) there is no access of atmospheric air .
The removal of dissolved air ( and other volatile impurity ) proved , however , not to be so easy as had been expected , even assisted by repeated exhaustions , with intermittent evolution of hydrogen ; and the often showed a } ) the hydrogen , sven after a somewhat prolonged preliminar .
treatment .
In subsequent expel.iments greater precautions will bc taken .
* Experience showed that good hydrogen could not thus be obtained from zinc and ordinary " " pure " " phurio acid , or phosphoric acid , without the aid of purifying agents .
The best resuIts so far have been from sulphuric and hydrochloric acid , when the gas is passed in succession over liquid potash , powdered corrosive sublimate , and them through powdered caustic ponash .
All the joints ot the tubes are connected by fusion , and a tap rates t ] damp from the dry side of the apparatus .
The latter includes large and long tube charged with phosphoric anhydride , a wool filter , a blow-off tube sealed with mercury until the is completed , besides the globe itself and the oppler pump .
A detailed iption is postponed until the experiments are complete .
It may be sufficient to mention that there is but one india-rubber connexion , \mdash ; that between the globe and the rest of the apparatus , and that the leakage through this was usually measured by the Toppler befol .
O commencing a filling or an svacuation .
The object of giving a considerable capacity to the tube was to provide against the danger of a too rapid of gas through the purifying tubes at the commencement of a filling .
Sup .
pose the gas to be blowing off , all the apparatus except the globe ( and the Toppler ) being at a pressure somewhat above the atmospheric .
The tap between the damp and dry sides is then closed , and that into the globe is opened .
The gas which now enters some*Spectrum analysis appears to of indicating the presence of large quantitics of nitrogen .
360 Lord Rayleigh .
On the relative [ Feb. 9 , what rapidly is dry , having been in good contact with he phosphoric anhydride .
In this way the pressure on the dry side reduced to about 2 inches of mercury , but this residus is sufficisnt to allow the damp side of the apparatus to be exhausted to a still lower pressure before the tap between the two sides of the apparatus is reopened .
When this is done , the first movement of the gas is retrograde ; and there is no danger at any stage of imperfect purification .
The generator is then re-started until the gas ( after from two of five hours ) begins to blow off again .
In closing the globe some precaution is required to secure that the pressure therein shall really be that measured by the barometer .
mercury seal is at some distance from , and at .
lower level than , rest of the apparatus .
AHer removal of the mercury the flow of is continued for about one minute , and then the tap between the dry and damp sides is closed .
From three to five minntes more were usually allowed for the complete establishment of equilibrium before the tap of the globe was turned off .
Experiments on oxygen appeared to show that two minutes was sufficient .
For measuring the atmospberic pressure two andard mercury barometers employed .
The evacuations were eIfected by the Toppler to at least so that the residual gas ( at any rate after one filling with hydrogen ) could be neglected .
I will now give some examples of actual results .
Those in the following tables relate to gas prepared from sulphuric acid , with subsequent purification , as already described:\mdash ; Globe ( 14 ) , empty .
Globe ( 14 ) , full .
1888 .
] Densities of and gen .
The second columu shows that globe ( 14 ) and certain platinum weights were suspended from the left end of the beam , and the third column that ( in this serios ) only the counterpoising globe ( 11 ) was hung from the right end .
The fourth column gives the mean balance reading in divisions of the scale , each of which ( at the time of tho above experimemts ) represented gram .
The degree of meant of these numbers in the first parb of the table gives an idea of errors due to the balance , and to uncertainties in the condition of the exteriors of the globes .
A minute and unsystematic correction npon imperfect compensation of volumes ( to the extent of about 2 ) need not here be regarded .
The weight of the hydrogen at each filling is deduced , whenever possible , by compal.ison of the " " fnll\ldquo ; l. eating with the meall of the immediately preceding and following " " empty\ldquo ; readings .
The difference , interpreted in grams , is taken provisionally as the erht of the gas .
Thus for the filling of Nov. 5\mdash ; The weights thus obtained depend of course upon the temperature and pressure at the time of filling .
Reduced to correspond with a temperature of , and to a barometric height of 30 inches ( but wifhout a minute correction for varying temperature of the mercury ) they stand thus\mdash ; November 5 . . . . . . . . . .
8 . . . . . . . . . .
10 . . . . . . . . . .
0.15798 12 . . . . . . . . . .
0.15792 Mean . . . . . .
hydrogen obtained hitherto with similar atus and purifying tubes from hydrochloric acid is not quite so , the mean of two accordant series being The weighing of oxygen is of course a much easier ion than in the case of hydrogen .
The gas was prepared from chlorate potash , and from a mixture of the chlorates of potash and soda .
The discrepanciss between the individual weighings were no than might fairly be attributed to ermometric and nometric errors .
The result reduced so as to corresl ) in all cspects w the numbers for hydrogen is But before these llumbers can be compared with the object of the relative densities , correction of some importance is required , which appears to havo been overlooked by Professor examination of ths weights revealt , d no error taking into present .
Densities of and O.r.ygen .
[ Feb. 9 , as it was by RegnauIt .
The weight of the gas is not to be found by merely taking the diffelence of the full and empty weighings , unless indeed the weighings are conducted in vacuo .
The external volume of the globe is larger when it is full than when it is empty , and the weight of the air corresponding to this difference of volume must be added to the apparent weight of the gas .
By filling the globe with carefully boiled water , it is not difficuIt to determine experimentally the expansion per atmosphere .
In the case of ] it appears that under normal atmospheric conditions the quantity to be added to the apparent weights of the hydrogen and oxygen is gram .
The actually observed alteration of volume ( regard being had to the compressibility of water ) agrees very nearly with an a priori estimate , founded npon the theory of thin spberical elastic shells and the known properties of glass .
The proporbional value of the required correction , in my case about of the weight of the hydrogen , will be for spherical globes proportional to , where is the radius of the globe , and the thickness of the shel ] , or to , if be the contents , and ths weight of the glass .
This ratio is nearly the same for Professor Cooke 's globe and for mine ; but he much greater departure of his globe from the spherical form may lncrease the amount of the correction which ought to be intloduced . .
the estimates now to be given , which must be regarded as provlslonal , the apparent weight of the hydrogen is taken at , so that the real weight is .
The weight of the same volume of oxygen under the same conditions is .
The ratio of these numbers is The ratio of densities found by RegnauIt was , but the greater part of the difference may well be accounted for by bhe omission of the correction just now considered .
In order to interpret our result as a ratio of atomic eights , we need to know accurately the ratio of atomic volumes .
The number given as most probable by Mr. Scott in May , was 1.994 , but he informs me that more recent xperiments under improved condi .
tions give .
Combining this with the ratio of densities , we obtain as the ratio of atomic weights\mdash ; It is not improbable that conducted on the same lines , but with still greater precautions , may raise the final number by one or even two thousandtbs of its value .
The ratio obtained by Professor Cooke is ; but the difference $ 1888 .
] Presents .
363 botween this numbsr and that above obtained may be more than accounted for , if 1 am right in my suggestion that his gas weigbings require correotion for the iminished buoyancy of the when the internal pressure is removed .
Presents , , 1888 .
Transactions .
Hertford :dsbire Natural History Society .
Transactions .
Vol. .
Part 7 . .
London 1887 .
The Society .
Leipzig:\mdash ; Konigl .
Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften , Abhandlungen .
Band XIV .
Hefte 5-6 . .
Leipzig 1887 .
Society .
London :Enfomological Society .
Transactions .
1887 .
Part 4 . .
London .
The Society .
Institution of Mechanical Engineers .
Proceedings .
1887 .
No. 3 . .
London .
The Institution .
raphic Society of Great Britain .
Journal and Transactions .
Vol. .
No. .
London 1887 .
The Society .
Royal Asiatic Society .
Journal .
Vol. .
Part 1 . .
London 1888 .
The Society .
MelbourIle :Royal Geographical Society of Australasia Branch ) .
Proceedings .
Vol. V. Part 2 .
1887 .
The Society .
Naples :Accademia dell Scienze Fisiche Matematiche .
Rendiconto .
Anno .
Fasc .
4-12 . .
Napoli 1886 .
The Academy .
Newcastle :Natural History Society of Northumberland , Durham , and Newcastle-upon-Tyne .
Natural History Transactions of N. , D. , and N. Vol. .
Part 1 . .
London 1887 .
The Society .
North of England Instibute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers .
Transactions .
Vol. XXXVII .
Part 1 . .
Necvcnstle-uponTyne 1887 .
The Institute .
New York :Academy of Sciences .
Annals .
Vol. .
Nos. 1-2 . .
New York 1887 ; Transactions .
Vol. .
New York 1887 , The Academy .
Paris :Ecole des Hautes Etudes .
Bibliothoque .
Soiences Philologiques et Historiques .
Fasc .
69-74 .
1887 .
The School .
Societe Astronomique de France .
Statuts . .
[ Paris 1887 ] .
The Society .
Societe de Geography .
Bulletin .
1882 .
Trim .
2 . .
Pxrls .
The Society .

