Description of a new Instrument for performing mechanically the Involution and Evolution of Numbers .
By Peter M. Roget , M.D. Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read November 17 , 1814 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 9 .
] The present instrument depends upon a new extension of the principle of the common sliding-rule ; for as in that numbers themselves are multiplied or divided by the mechanical addition of their logarithms , so in this their logarithms are multiplied or divided by mechanical application of corresponding logometric spaces .
In the common tables of logarithms , that of 10 is 1 , and those of its simple powers are 2 , 3 , 4 , &amp;c. ; so also the logarithm of the square root of 10 is I , or *5 ; the fourth root is 4 , or *25 , being a decimal index expressing a power of 10 less than unity .
In the same manner all other numbers are considered as powers of 10 , and their logarithms are integral or decimal indices of those powers .
In the common sliding-rules the divisions are so placed as to mark intervals that are proportional to these indices ; so that by simple juxtaposition the sum or difference of any two indices , and consequently the product or quotient of any two numbers , appears by inspection .
In this manner , by addition of two equal logometric intervals , the square of any number may be found ; but the instrument so constructed is not prepared to give the higher powers , without proportionally frequent repetitions of the same process , which gives at length a multiple of the index by the tedious operations of repeated addition .
The instrument contrived by Dr. Roget , is constructed to answer this last purpose , with the same facility as common multiplication and division are performed by the common sliding-rule .
For in the same manner as numbers are considered as powers of 10 , so their indices , whether integral or decimal , being , in fact , numbers , may again be regarded as powers of 10 ; and their secondary indices , or logarithmic logarithms , may be laid down as logometric intervals , to which other logometric intervals may be added or subtracted mechanically , so as to present to view any multiples or aliquot part of a logarithm , and consequently any powers whatever of the number to which that logarithm is index ; for when the unit of Gunter 's line , on the slider , is applied to any number on the scale , divided into logometric logarithms , then 2 on the slider corresponds to the square , 3 to the cube , &amp;c. of the same number .
The author enumerates various uses to which such an instrument is applicable .
To all cases of geometrical progression the application is obvious for finding the common ratio , the number of terms , or any particular term in the series .
An approximate solution is thus given to all questions of compound interest , to regularly progressive increase of population , and to many calculations of chances .
To cases also of the reduction of temperature which a body undergoes by communication to a surrounding medium ; and to successive stages of exhaustionl , by an air-pump , it may be applied with equal advantage .
Since the scale of the instrument presents to view the proportion of logarithms to each other , while the slider represents the ratios of their respective numbers , it becomes a means of illustrating many points relative to the general theory of logarithms , whether to exhibit a series of logarithms formed according to any particular modulus , or by an inverted position of the slider to find the moduli of all different systems , and accordingly in that , for instance , in which the modulus is equal to the basis .
In this inverted position of the slider it affords a ready answer to various exponential equations , which do not admit of any direct solution , as , for instance , if xx = 100 .
Let the unit on the slider be placed opposite to 100 on the rule , then 2 will be found opposite to 10 , which is the square root of 100 ; 3 will be opposite to 4-641 , which is the third root of 100 ; and by attending to the decreasing numbers which correspond to increasing numbers on the slider , it will be seen that 36 is the point at which they appear equal , showing that 3-63'6 is nearly equal to 100 , and is therefore approximately the root required .
The author concludes by pointing out various forms in which such an instrument may be constructed ; since the line divided into logometric logarithms may be turned into a spiral , or arranged according to any other of the various modifications that have been given to the common logometric line of Gunter .

