Some Account of the Feet of those Animals whose progressive Motion can be carried on in opposition to Gravity .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read February 22 , 1816 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1816 , p. 149 .
] The power which flies have of crawling upon a ceiling is well known , but the mode in which this is effected , says the author , has never been explained .
It was not till lately he learned that there are animals of a larger size which have the same power , and in which , from their size , the construction of their feet will admit of more accurate examination .
The Lacerta Gecko of Java walks up and down the smoothly polished chinam walls in quest of flies , and runs upwards to its retreat in the roofs of the houses , although the weight of a specimen given to the author by Sir Joseph Banks was as much as 5-I ounces .
On the feet of this animal are five toes , armed with a very sharp and curved claw ; and there are also on each sixteen transverse slits , with serrated edges , with pouches between them , which are considered by the author as the striking peculiarity in the foot of this lizard .
When these are closed , the under surface of the foot bears a considerable resemblance to the upper part of the head of the sucking fish , the surface of which is furnished with two rows of moveable plates attached by one edge , and serrated at the other , and its margin is surrounded by a broad loose membrane , capable of very close application to any surface on which it is placed .
By elevation of the plates , a degree of exhaustion is thus occasioned ; and the fish thereby firmly attaches himself to the shark , or to any other object .
In the same manner it would appear that the transverse serratures of the bottom of the toes of the lizard , by their elevation , occasion a degree of exhaustion or partial vacuum , confined by the broad membrane which is attached all round each of the toes .
The author is of opinion , that the feet of the common fly act upon the same principle .
Their under surfaces , when highly magnified , appear to be concave , as they are represented by Kellar ; and he thinks it cannot be doubted that these cavities are employed to rarify the air between them and the surfaces to which they are applied , and thus support the weight of the fly , in opposition to gravity , when suspended from a ceiling .

