1879 .
] Prof. Cayley on Single and Double Theta-Functions .
397 IV .
" A Memoir on the Single and Double Theta-Functions .
" By A. Cayley , F.R.S. , Sadlerian Professor of Pure Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received November 14 , 1879 .
( Abstract .
) The theta-functions , although arising historically from the elliptic functions , may be considered as in order of simplicity preceding these , ; and connecting themselves directly with the exponential function ( ev or ) exp , x : viz. , they may be defined each of them as a sum of a series of exponentials , singly infinite in the case of the single functions , doubly infinite in the case of the double functions , and so on .
The number of the single functions is=4 ; and the quotients of these , or say three of the functions , each divided by the fourth , are the elliptic functions , sn , cn , dn : the number of the double functions is ( 42= ) 16 ; and the quotients of these , or say fifteen of the functions , each divided by the sixteenth , are the hyper-elliptic functions of two arguments depending on the square root of a sextic function : generally the number of p-tuple theta-functions is =4P ; and the quotients of these , or say all but one of the functions , each divided by the remaining function , are the Abelian functions of p arguments depending on the irrational function y defined by the equation F(aj , y)=0 of a curve of deficiency p. If instead of connecting the ratios of the functions with a plane curve , we consider the functions themselves as coordinates of a point in a \gt ; ( 4P\#151 ; 1 ) dimensional space , then we have the single functions as the four coordinates of a point on a quadriquadric curve ( one-fold locus ) in ordinary space : and the double functions as the sixteen coordinates of a point on a quadriquadric ( two-fold locus ) in 15-dimensional space , the deficiency of this two-fold locus being of course =2 .
The investigations contained in the first part of the present memoir , .although for simplicity of notation exhibited only in regard to the double functions , are in fact applicable to the general case of the p-tuple functions : but in the main the memoir relates only to the single and double functions ; and the title has been given to it accordingly .
The investigations just referred to extend to the single functions ; and there is , it seems to me , an advantage in carrying on the two theories simultaneously up to and inclusive of the establishment of what I call the product-theorem : this is a natural point of .separation for the theories of the single and the double functions respectively .
The ulterior developments of the two theories are indeed \#166 ; closely analogous to each other ; but on the one hand the course of the single theory would be only with difficulty perceptible in the greater complexity of the double theory ; and on the other hand we need the single theory as a guide for the course of the double theory .
I ac- 398 Profs .
Living and Dewar .
[ Nov. 27r cordingly stop to point out in a general manner the course of the single theory ; and in connexion with it , but more briefly , that of the double theory ; and I then , in the second and third parts respectively , consider in detail the two theories separately ; first , that of the single functions , and then that of the double functions .
The paragraphs of the memoir are numbered consecutively .
The definition adopted for the theta-functions differs somewhat from that which is ordinarily used .
V. " On the Spectra of Sodium and Potassium .
" By Gr .
D " Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received November 20 , 1879 .
In the course of our observations on the reversal of the spectra of metals , we have many times had occasion to observe the spectra of sodium and potassium , and have noticed that they have been imperfectly described .
M. Lecoq de Boisbaudran describes them more completely than anyone else ; but as seen in the electric arc in one of the-crucibles described by us in connexion with the reversals , there are in each spectrum several additional lines , which make the whole far more ' regular and symmetrical than they appear in his account .
These additional lines are seen in the arc given by a battery of 25 Grove 's cells as well as in that given by a dynamo-electric machine .
They show best in a long arc , and as the vapours conduct well it is easy to draw out the are of 25 cells to the length of an inch or more .
We have generally used carbonates of the metals , sometimes chlorides .
In the case of sodium we have already noticed ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxviii , p. 473 ) that the pair of lines next more refrangible than D ' ( which we may for convenience call the third group ) are accompanied by a fainter pair on their more refrangible side .
Lecoq de Boisbaudran notices one only of these faint lines .
By micrometer measurements of their distances from their brighter companions , we have deduced the wave-lengths 5673*6 , 5668*6 , for this pair .
A line closely corresponding to the latter of these lines is to be found in Kirckhoff 's map of the Solar Spectrum ( 1165*2 ) .
The next pair of lines , or fourth group ( 5155 , 5152 ) , are sharply defined , and have no other line close to them ; but the bright green pair , or fifth group ( 4983 , 4982 ) , - are diffuse lines , usually seen as -a band but noted by Lockyer to be a double line , and have a third line on their more refrangible side , of which we find the wavelength to be 4980*5 .
We feel sure that there ought to be a fourth line in this group , but have never been able to detect it .
It is possible that two of the four lines may overlap , and so appear as one ;

