]\gt ; Mr. W. L. Brag .
appreciation which could be offered to a man whom we specially desire to honour .
One final duty remains for me to perform before I retire from this Chair .
I have to thank the Fellows of the Society for the great honour which they conferred upon me when they elected me to be their President , and also for the kindness and sympathy with which they have surrounded me during my tenure of the office .
To .
the Council , the Officers , and the permanent Staff I would express my eful appreciation of the uniform helpfulness and cordiality with which they have assisted me in the discharge of the multiform duties that appertain to the Presidency .
These last five years have been to me a singularly full and happy time , the memory of which will ever be to me a delightful retrospect .
It is my belief that I leave the affairs of this great Society in a not less prosperous condition than that in which they were entrusted to me .
I shall hand over the reins of Office to one whose scientific achievements confer a lustre on the Royal Society , and whose long experience of the conduct of our work gives the best assurance that the prosperity of the Society in past years will be amply maintained in those that are to come .
The of by the -ray Spectrometer .
By W. LAWRKNCE BRAG , B.A. ( Communicated by Prof. W. H. Brag , F.R.S. Received November \mdash ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) In a former communication to the Royal Society , attempt was made to determine for certain crystals the exact nature of the diffracting system which produces the Laue -ray diffraction raphs .
The crystals chosen for particular investigation were the isomorphous alkaline halides , and .
As in the original experiments of Laue and his collaborators , a thin section of crystal was placed in the path of a narrow beam of -rays , and the radiation diffracted by the crystal made its impression on a photographic plate .
By noticing what differences were caused in the photograph by the substitution of heavier for lighter atoms in the crystal , definite arrangement was decided on as that of the diffracting points of the rating .
* W. L. Brag , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. 249 .
The Analysis of by the -ray Spectrometer .
it was foumd possible in the case of these simple salts to determine the position of the atoms of alkaline metal and , which constitute bhe elements of the dimensional diffraction grating , yet this method , which may be called the raphic method , is very limited in its range of applications .
It was only the extremely simple nature of the structure which nnade its analysis possible .
On the other hand , the -ray spectrometer , which has been deyised by W. H. Brag for the purpose of the reflection of X-rays by crystals , *affords a very much more powerful method of research iuto the structure of the crystaL The raphic method works by throwing on the crystal a beam of " " white\ldquo ; -radiation , and comparing the strength of the beams reflected by various types of planes ( nets ) of the poin system on which the atoms are arranged .
The -ray spectrometer employs a monochromatic radiation and faces are examined in detail one by one .
In the first place , the spectrometer tells the distance in centimetres of plane from plane parallel to these faces .
Moreover , if the successive planes are of identical composition , the results of the examination show this .
If on the other hand the planes occur in groups , each group containing several planes of different nature , it is hoped that the results given below will show how the instrument can be made to the exact spacing and relative masses of the planes of these groups .
This means that we can obtain equations to solve the structure of any crystal , however complicated , although the solution is not always easy to find .
In this paper I wish to indicate the solntion for several types of crystals .
For many of the experimental results I am indebted to father , the rest have been obtained in Leeds with one of the spectrometers which has constructed .
Parallel to any one of its possible faces , a crystal may be regarded as being built up of a series of planes .
Each plane passes the centres of one or more sets of atoms identical in all respects .
The successive planes , encountered in proceeding in a direction perpendicular to the face under consideration , may not be identical in their character .
They can always , however , be divided into groups in such a way that each ) roup contains a sample of every kind of plane , arranged in an invariable order .
It is proposed to call the distance between the groups when are the indices of the crystal face .
The pattern of the arrangement of planes itself in the distance As an example of the arrangement of these planes , we may take the cubic crystal of sodium chloride , .
The structure of the crystal has been iven in the paper cited above .
It is there shown that the arrangement of sodium * W. H. Brag and W. L. Brag , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 88 , p. 428 .
Mr. W. L. Brag .
and chlorine atoms in this crystal must approximate closely to that given in fig. 1 .
Here we have oints of two kinds , black and white , arranged at the corners of a set of cubes .
Parallel to any cube edge such as AB , the points I I O ) ( I II ) NaCl N Na Cl Na Na FIG. 1 .
are arranged in rows of alternate blacks and whites .
The measurements of the single crystal give only this arrangement of points of two kinds , and do not ab initio indicate how many atoms are to be associated with each of the points .
For the sake of simplicity the assumption was made that each point represented a single atom .
Every crystal investigated has strengthened the probability of the truth of this assumption , for it can be shown for the other crystals , whose structure has now been discovered , that if the points in fig. 1 represent a group of atoms , the di{fracting points of all these crystals also represent a group of atoms .
It seems very improbable that this should be true for such different crystals as the alkaline halides , ammonium chloride , diamond , fluor , the pyrites class , zinc blende , the calcite class and dolomite , for all of which the structure has been found .
In view of this , it will be assumed that the diffracting points are atoms .
Planes parallel to the cube face ABCD contain both sodium and chlorine The Analysis of rystals by the Spectrometer .
atoms in equal numbers .
The successive planes ABCD , lpmn , EFGH , are identical in their properties , and if we take the side AD to be equal to these planes are separated by a distance .
Thus we have The planes parallel to DBFH also contain both sodium and chlorine atoms , and successive planes are identical .
It is easy to see that It is different in the case of planes which are parallel to EDB , with the indices ( 111 ) .
The plane EDB passes sodium atoms alone , as can be seen by consulting the .
The next plane passes chlorine alone , the next again through sodium alone .
We have to proceed a distance equal to the perpendiculax from on AFH in order pass from one sodium plane to the next .
Thus we have These results are represented in fig. 1 B. We will now consider the evidence iven by the -ray spectrometer concerning the nature of these planes .
When monochromatic radiation falls on a series of equally spaced planes , each of which can reflect only a small fraction of that radiation , reflection is practically non-existent mess the relation holds good .
is the of the incident radiation , the glancing angle of reflection , the distance between the successive planes and whole number .
Thus reflection is possible at series of angles , etc. , whose sines are in an arithmetical progression , got by substituting integers for .
The source of the monochromatic radiation used in these ations was an -ray bulb with anticathode of palladium .
It has been shown by W. H. that this metal gives off very little eneral radiation large proportion of the energy in the spectrum being in two lines , one of which is much stronger than the other .
It this palladium line which is referred to below .
Its wave-length is equal to cm .
Examples of the curves obtained , when the reflection from a crystal face , have been given in former papers .
A series of measurements of the strength of the reflected ] ) for different angles are made , the crystal and ionisation chamber being always set so that the one reflects into the other .
At all angles there is a general reflection .
At the ; which satisfy the condition when cm .
, a strong special reflection is superimposed on the genelal .
By subtracting the reflection at these angles from that at *Supra , p. 430 .
Mr. W. L. Brag .
neighbouring yles , a measure of the intensity of this special reflection is obtained .
The amount reflection is almost always small compared with the special reflection , when a palladium bulb is used .
In this paper the intensities of the spectra and the angles of reflection will alone be given .
In some cases ated by my father , the bulb used lad a rhodium anticathode , rhodium a spectrum almost identical with that of palladium .
Table I. The angles give the setting of the ionisation chamber .
The numbers are proportional to the intensities of the spectra .
\mdash ; 22 Rock salt , Pd rays\mdash ; ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 111 ) Fluor spar , Pd rays\mdash ; ( 100 ) ( 110 ) 111 ) Zinc blende , Rh rays\mdash ; ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 111 ) Pyrites , Rh rays\mdash ; ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 110 ) Fluor spar , Pd rays\mdash ; Rock salt , ) ) Zinc blende , Rh rays\mdash ; Pyrites , Rh rays\mdash ; The intensities of the rock-salt spectra will be found in Table I. The results for the faces ( 100 ) and ( 110 ) are of what may be called the normal type .
The reflection of the first order , for which has the value given by is very pronounced .
The reflection of the second order , for which is much less intense , and the other reflections diminish regularly in intensity as the order of reflection increases .
It will be noticed that for the face ( 100 ) is for the face ( 110 ) is * The angles given in Table I are those at which the ionisation chamber is set .
These angles can be determined with much greater accuracy than the angles of reflection which are half as great .
The of by the Spectrometer .
473 The spectra reflected from the face ( 111 ) have a very different appearance .
The second spectrum is now much more pronounced than the first .
The reason for this appears when the arrangement of the planes parallel to this face is taken into consideration ( see fig. 1 B ) .
Instead of the successive planes being identical in character sodium and chlorine planes alternate .
The first spectrum corresponds to the spac n of chlorine to chlorine planes .
The reflection corresponding to this spacing is spoilt , however , by the interposition of the hter sodium planes , exactly intermediate with the chlorine ones .
The effect of this is to weaken all the odd spectra in comparison with the even .
If the sodium planes were so light as to be non-effective , the odd spectra would be of normal strength .
If they became as effective agents as the chlorine planes , the odd spectra would disappear entireJy , for one would have a succession of identical planes at a distance .
What is actually the case represents an intermediate state of affairs .
This very simple case has been entered into in some detail in order to make clear what follows .
Two crystals will now be considered which present slightly more complicated features .
Zinc \mdash ; This case is of especial interest as it is the originally employed by Laue in his ations .
The spectra for the principal faces were obtained by W. H. , and published in ourjoint paper* on " " The Structure of the Diamond where a short of the crystalline structure was given .
The ement of the heavy zinc atoms of the crystal is revealed by the Laue photographs , they lie on a face-centred cubic lattice as do the chlorine atoms in sodium chloride .
This conclusion may be verified by a comparison of the dimensions of the spacing for rock salt and zinc blende .
For if the atoms of the metal are in both cases arranged on the same type of cubic lattice , then the relative dimensions of the ]atCices can be foumd by the molecular volumes of the two substances .
The distance should be proportional to the cube root of the molecular volume , and therefore inversely proportional to this quantity .
This is found to be so .
The zincs are arranged on a face-centred cubic lattice .
Let this lattice be supposed to suffer a translation in the direction of a cube diagonal ( DF in , the lattice parallel to itself .
The extent of the translation is just such as to bring the point to the centre of the small cube of which it was formerly a corner .
The new points thus arrived at represent the positions of the sulphur atoms .
The principal planes then have the ement depicted in Referring to Table I the spectra of ( 110 ) are alone normal ; for ( 100 ) the * Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. Mr. W. L. Brag .
odd spectra are small compared with the even , exactly as for rock salt ( 111 ) .
The ( 111 ) planes are of a new type , inasmuch as the sulphur planes are so placed as to tend to destroy the second spectrum as compared with the first Zn ( 100 ) I ) FIG. 2 .
and third .
The effect of this is very noticeable in the spectra .
It is to be noticed especially that the axis perpendicular to the planes ( 111 ) of this crystal is made polar by this arrangement of the atoms .
Passing along it in one direction , the pairs of planes and are encountered in a different order to when passing in the opposite direction .
This accounts for the fact that zinc blende belongs to the ditesseral polar class of the cubic system .
Fluor spar , , presents a very analogous case .
Here the atoms of the metal are arranged on a face-centred cubic lattice .
The normality of the ( 110 ) spectra indicates that the fluorine atoms lie in the ( 110 ) planes of the lattice formed by the calcium atoms , and we therefore place them at the centres of the eight cubes into which the large cube ABCDEFGH is divided in fig. 1 .
Since we now have twice as many fluorine as calciums , each of the small cubes must have a point at its centre , instead of one half of the cubes , The Analysis of Crystcds by the Spectrometer .
as in the case of zinc blende .
This raises the symmetry to that of the holohedral cubic class .
The arrangement of planes parallel to the principal faces is shown in fig. 3 .
On comparing the spectra of fluor spar ( Table I ) with those of zinc blende , ( 100 ) Ca Ca Ca Ca Ca Ca FIG. 3 .
it will be seen that for fluor spar ( 100 ) the spectrum analogous to the first in zinc blende is now entirely absent .
Similarly the second ( 111 ) fluol spar is absent , though a faint second ( 111 ) exists for zinc blende .
This must mean that the planes are equivalent to the planes Ca in , and so the odd spectra from the ( 100 ) face of fluor spar are annihilated .
This is an indication of a general law which will be tested much more fully later in the paper .
This law states that " " the power of an atom is proportional to its atomic weight We have already seen for the case of potassium chloride that two atoms of nearly equal atomic diffract equally .
This law can now be extended to such cases where we are balancing a single atom of calcium against two atoms of fluorine .
The spectra for diamond are given in our paper on the structure of that crystal ( loc. cit In diamond carbon atoms are substituted for both the zincs and sulphurs of zinc blende .
This raises the symmetry to that of the holohedral cubic class .
If we imagine the zincs and sulphurs of zinc blende to become equal in diffracting power , spectra would assume the form characteristic of diamond .
The first ( 100 ) entirely disappears , as does the second ( 111 ) .
For these four structures given here , the symmetry lixes exactly the position of each atom .
Every atom is in such a position that the forces on it must obviously be in equilibrium .
For instance , each sulphur in zinc blende is immediately surrounded by four zincs symmetrically placed so a to form the corners of a tetrahedron , of which the sulphur represents the centre of figure .
The more distant zincs can be also seen to be so situated as to ensure that their actions on the sulphur atoms balance .
The same is true for the other crystals .
If we assume that the atoms themselves have no polarity and their attractions and repulsions of .
atoms are not a Mr. W. L. Brag .
function of the orientation of the atoms , it follows that the structures assigned to crystals are those in which there is equilibrium .
The stability or otherwise of this equilibrium is another matter .
We will now consider a case for which this does not hold good .
The atoms in this case are no longer at the " " centres of the figure\ldquo ; of the structure , they are displaced by a very large amount from these ideal positions , and their exact situation is not fixed by the symmetry .
Iron rites , .\mdash ; Cubic .
Symmetry Tesseral Central .
The spectra of iron pyrites are given .
in Table I. It will at once be evident that they are of a very much more complicated nature those of fluor spar or zinc blende .
comparison of the molecular volumes and reflection of this crystal and those considered above shows that the iron atoms are again present in such numbers as they would be if arranged on a face-centred lattice .
Since the first spectra are also in the positions to be expected for such a lattice , it is clear that this lattice is again the basis of the structure .
If the iron atoms were on the face-centred lattice of figs. 1 and 2 and the sulphur atoms at cube centres , the structure would be similar to that of fluor spar .
Since sulphur is approximately of half the atomic weight of iron , just as fluorine is of calcium , one would expect the these two crystals to resemble each other .
This is far from being the case , and we must alter the structure in such a way as to explain the observed spectra .
The spectra for the face ( 100 ) are very peculiar .
The first spectrum is pronounced , the second and third are absent , the fourth and fifth are of normal size compared to the first .
This gests that the arrangement of the pyrites ( 100 ) planes is somewhat similar to that of the planes ( 111 ) of fluor spar ( compare fig. 3 ) .
In order that this may be so we must displace the sulphurs from their positions at the cube centres .
Normally each small cube ( as in fig. 2 ) possesses four trigonal axes intersecting in the centre of the cube .
If the sulphur atom is from its position at the cube centre , this high symmetry is degraded , and some of the trigonal axes disappear .
Therefore moving the sulphur atoms from the centre involves the sacrifice of some of the ] ements of symmetry .
Four trigonal axes intersect in each iron atom , and of them one at least must be retained , in order that the crystal may be of the cubic system , and the iron atoms may remain identical with each other .
This involves the retention of one trigonal axis as a diagonal of each small cube ( fig. 4 ) , and it is , therefore , along this diaggonal that the sulphur must be displaced .
It must lie on the diagonal , for if not each small cube would contain three atoms of sulphur arranged around the trigonal axis , while we know it only contains one .
The Analysis of Crystals by the .
477 It seems to follow , therefore , that the displacement of the sulphur atoms must be carried out in the following way .
One diagonal of each cube is chosen to be preserved as a trigonal axis , the choice .
place in such a way that none of the trigonal axes intersect .
Each of these onalso then has an iron atom at one end and a vacant cube corner at the other .
Then the fe5 5 5 Fe ( IO ) Fe5 FIG. sulphur atoms must be displaced along the selected diagonals on which they lie .
All must be displaced towards the } iron atoms , or all away from them .
The amount of the displacement is a variable quantity at our disposal .
When this has been done , the structure possesses the symmetry characteristic of iron pyrites ( Tesseral Central ) .
The projection of the Mr. W. L. Brag .
atoms in the unit cube ABCDEFGH* as projected on the plane DHGC is shown in fig. and it is clear that the tetragonal axes perpendicular to this face have been destroyed and that only axes remain .
rfhe centres of symmetry are situated at every cube corner .
Let the sulphur atom be displaced along the axis until it divides the in the ratio 4 to 1 , the displacement taking place towards the unoccupied cube corner .
The arrangement of the principal planes which then exists is shown in fig. Being situated at from the iron planes , the sulphurs will tend to cut out both the second and third ( 100 ) spectra .
For if they were at from the iron planes , they would just cut out the second spectrum ; if at , they would cut out the third .
In the plane ( 110 ) , the presence midway between planes of the pair of planes will tend to raise the second ( 110 ) spectrum as compared with the first .
For the planes ( 111 ) the first spectrum will be small compal'ed with the second , and the fifth will be abnormally .
This qualitative comparison of the spectra with those actually obtained will demonstrate that the position of the sulphur atom which we have assigned to it is not far from the truth .
Since in the case of iron pyrites the positions of the sulphur atoms are not fixed by the conditions of symmetry , the more or less qualitative analysis so far employed can only suggest their positions approximately .
In order to fix these positions with accuracy , it is necessary to develop some quantitative comparison of the intensities of the first , second , third , fourth , and fifth spectra .
of Spectra .
In the first place , experiments seem to indicate that the diffracting power of an atom varies as its atomic weight .
The ratio oi the power of two atoms is taken to be the ratio of the amplitudes of the diffracted wavelets which each would send out in identical circumstances , the same exciting wave passing over them .
In the case of fluor spar , it has already been seen that the two fluorine , whose combined atomic amount to 38 , equal in diffracting power the single calcium of atomic .
The series of carbonates isomorphous with calcite provide another case , which illustrates this law very clearly .
The spectra assign a very simple structure to these compounds , which belong to the rhombohedral holohedral crystal class .
The structure of the calcite crystal is immaterial for present purposes ; it is given in detail at the end of this paper .
It is only necessary to note that , perpendicular to the In fig. 4 the cube ABCDEFGH has been represented as divided into halves , in order to make the disposition of trigonal axes ( the dotted diagonals ) more clear .
The lettering will show how the cubes are to be connected .
The of by the Spectrometer .
479 trigonal axis , the planes are evenly spaced , and contain alternately calcium atoms and groups of the composition .
As is to be expected from its close structural relationship calcite , sodium nitrate ives spectra in every way analogous to those of the calcite class .
It is therefore included in the table below .
In Table II are given the relative intensities and for the first , second , third , and fourth spectra from faces ( 111 ) of the compotulds CaMg ( .
As before , the angles are those of the ionisation chamber , or double the ancing aoles of reflection .
It will be seen that , as the atomic weight of the metal approaches that of the gloup , the first spectrum becomes smallel compared with the second .
This means that the planes and are more nearly equal in diffracting power .
Iron and anese , with atomic veight of 56 and o5 respectively , must have approximately the same power as the group , for which , for the first spectrum has vanished in the case of and .
This must mean power is proportional to Table II .
( 111 ) face , calcite class .
Pd rays .
Secondly , it has been seen that , when the rays are reflected from a series of planes which are regularly spaced and identical in all respects , the successive spectra diminish in intensity in a perfectly orderly manner .
It can be further stated that , for all cases here the planes are of this type , the intensities of the successive spectra are approximately in the same atio .
If the first spectrum has an intensity 1 , the second , third , fourth , and fifth spectra have intensities , .
These numbers only Mr. W. L. Brag .
suggested as being very rough approximations .
The faces ( 100 ) and ( 110 ) rock salt , ( 110 ) fluor and zin blende , ( 100 ) and ( 110 ) diamond , are cases where the spectra intensities are of this normal type ( see Table I ) .
Let us now suppose that we are considering the reflection from faces of a crystal of a binary compound , composed of two elements , A and , of atomic weights and .
The successive planes parallel to any one face may be identical in all respects , and contain both A and atoms .
Or , as often happens , they may alternately consist of A atoms alone and atoms alone .
In the first case the spectra will be of the normal type .
The identical planes of composition AB may be considered as consisting of two sets of coincident planes of composition A and B. Now , let us suppose that the whole set of planes is slightly shifted relatively to the A planes , so that ( 1 ) passes ( 1 ) ( 2 ) FIG. 5 .
into ( 2 ) , .
The distance remains the same as before ; the shift of the planes is equal to This causes the wavelets from the planes to be in a different phase to the wavelets from the A planes .
All other conditions remain the same ; the same incident wave passes over the planes as would if they were coincident ; it is absorbed to the same extent on a corresponding depth ; the emergent reflected wave is also equally absorbed by the superficial layers of the crystal .
We can therefore compare with fairness the strength of the reflection from ( 1 ) with that from ( 2 ) under similar conditions , by comparing the reflection by a single plane AB with that by the pair of planes A and B. The amplitude of the wavelet reflected from planes A is proportional to .
That from planes is proportional to .
They differ in phase by for the first spectra , for the second , and so on .
Thus we may institute the following comparison:\mdash ; The Analysis of by the -ray Spectrometer .
Intensities .
Order of spectrum .
Case I. Case II .
The intensity of the spectrum is taken to be proportional to the square of the amplibude of the resultant reflected wavelet .
It is obvious that this may be extended to cases where the arrangement of planes is more complicated .
It is only a question of the resultant of several wavelets of known amplitudes and phase relations , as against that of finding the resultant of two .
We are now in a position to calculate theoretically the spectrum intensities to be expected for any structure assigned to a crystal .
In this calculation the unptions are made : 1 .
The diffracting power of an atom is proportional to its atomic weight .
2 .
The ' normal\ldquo ; spectra reflected from a simple series of anes have intensities in the latio 3 .
hbouring atoms diffract independently of each other .
This last has been tacitly assumed above .
The results of the calculation are given in Table III ( p. 482 ) .
It will be seen by these results that the calculated and observed intensities obviously run parallel to each other .
Taking into account the many experimental errors in the determination of the relative intensities , and the crude nature of the assumption which has been made , closer agreement could not be expected .
The results certainly show that all the peculiar features of any set of spectra can be assigned to structural peculiarities of the crystal .
If a certain spectrum is missing , or is unusually strong , a reason for it is found in the arrangement of the crystal planes .
Iron pyrites provides a good example .
In order to account for the peculiar fact that the ( 100 ) planes have no second or third spectrum , we place the sulphur atoms in such a position as to divide the oIlalc in the ratio 1 : 4 .
When the sulphur atoms are placed here the structure of the crystal is illustrated in fig. 4 .
In this figure ( A ) represents the unit cube of the structure which is afterwards repeated without change parallel to itself .
It is the unit of the pattern , and its sides are the primitive translations of the group .
Four Mr. W. L. Brag .
Table III .
iron atoms and eight sulphurs are associated with it .
The cube is represented being in two halves , in order to make the structure more clear .
The diagonals which are marked are trigonal axes of the system .
Every corner of the small cubes into which the structure is divided is a centre of symmetry .
each side centre of these cubes passes a screw axis , parallel to one of the cube axes .
Fig. represents the structure as projected on a plane ( 100 ) , and it is evident that this face has a axis , and not a tetragonal axis , perpendicular to it .
The features are those characteristic of the crystal class to which iron pyrites belongs .
The way in which the spectra of iron pyrites have been calculated from the assumptions given above will be entered into rather fully here , as this case is a good instance of the quantitative analysis of strength of spectra .
The arrangement of planes parallel to the three principal faces of the crystal is given in fig. , the sulphurs being placed so as to divide the in the 1 : 4 ratio .
This is done in order to account for the fact that the face has no second and third order spectra .
For calculation then gives for the relative amplitudes of the first , second , and third spectra The of Crystats by the Spectrometer .
483 It is obvious that when these amplitudes are squared and multiplied by the factors for the normal spectrum , the second and third spectra will be vanishingly small compared to the first .
The planes parallel to ( 111 ) have a peculiar ement ; their spectra can be worked out by the help of .
The three circles in the figure FIG. 6 .
have radii proportional to Fe .
Each circle is divided into five by the lines , etc. The .
The wavelets which are reflected from one of these of planes and which go to bnild up the first spectrum have relative amplitudes and intensities represented by , these being due to the planes , Fe , of a group .
The amplitudes of these waves are 24 , 8 , 56 , 8 , 24 respectively , and their resultant is For the second spectrum the resultant of , is equal to .
For now the planes are out of phase with the Fe planes , and the planes out of phase .
The third spectrum is the resultant of these same components , and the amplitude of the reflected wave is proportional to 58 .
For the fourth we have the resultant of VOL. LXXXIX.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. W. L. Brag .
, as for the first spectrum .
The resultant is again proportional to 23 .
For the fifth spectrum obviously all the components are in phase .
The amplitude is measured by Thus the amplitudes of these spectra are in the ratio 23 : 68 : 58 : 23 : 120 .
So far , therefore , their intensities are in the ratio ( 23)2 And when multiplied by the factors for the normal spectrum , these ratios become ( 23 ) or 78 : 100 : 80 : 2 : 21 .
If the sulphur atoms are placed so as to divide the cube diagonal in the ratio 1 : 3 see , the of the spectra , as calculated above , become 100 : 56 : 38 : If they divide the diagonal in the ratio 1 : 5 , they can be calculated to be 19 : 100 : 24 : 7 : 17 .
Therefore , we have the following comparison:\mdash ; Ratio .
Intensities .
1:3 100 56 38 8 1:4 78 100 35 2 21 1:5 19100 24 7 17 Observed intensities 75 100 50 22 The 1 : 4 ratio seems , therefore , to be very nearly the true one .
These three situations for the sulphur atom are very close .
If length of cube diagonal , the distance of the sulphur atom from the cube corner is for the three cases .
It seems reasonable to conclude from these figures that this distance lies between and , or that the position of the sulphur atom on the diagonal may be found to 1 or 2 per cent. of the length of the diagonal .
The crystalline structure of hauerite , , is , as far as has been investiyated , identical with that iron pyrites .
planes have a strong first spectrum and no second and third .
The planes ( 111 ) have the first , second , and third spectra in the ratio 32 : 100 : 50 .
As the only crystals available were small no great reliance is to be placed on these figures except as indicating that the structure is very nearly that of iron pyrites .
This is surprising , considering the great difference in the molecular volume of hauerite , , as compared with that of pylites , The of by the -ray Spectrometer .
All the calculated spectra in Table III have been worked out in this way .
Let it be repeated here that the factors representing the strengths of the normal spectra are only intended to be rough approximations .
They do not represent an unaltering relation between the relative strengths of the spectra of different orders for all substances .
This relation probably varies with the substance and with the angle of reflection of the first spectrum .
They are merely introduced in order to make it clear that the peculiarities of the spectra obtained from the crystals dealt with here can be satisfactorily explained by the structures assigned to them .
Fluor spar belongs to the holohedral class of the cubic system , and the structure we would assign to it is of that symmetry .
Zinc blende is of the ditesseral polar class , and this rees with its structure as indicated by the spectrometer .
The peculiar position of the sulphurs in the structure of pyrites would suggest that the crystal be expected to show that strong evidence of its tesseral central symmetry which is so distinct in crystals of this substance .
But in the case of rock salt , the spectrometer { gives no indication whatever that the atoms are arranged in but the highly symmetrical structure of fig. 1 .
Yet there is strong evidence that rock salt really belongs to the holoaxial class of the cubic system .
If this is so , then the distortion of ( .
which causes this fradation of symmetry must be very .
If the sulphur atoms in iron pyrites were very nearly at the cube centres , but not quite , the spectra would not show , while it is quite possible that etched ures nJight r ] the true class of the crystal .
It seems that something of this kind must be the case for rock salt .
However , the most simple distortion which yet preserves the equivalence of all sodium and chlol'ine atoms reduces the s.ymmetry from the holohedral to the tetartohedral class of the cubic system , not to the holoaxial class .
The Structure of Calcite.\mdash ; The structure of calcite has been referred to already .
Table gives the angles of reflection and the relative intensities of the spectra from faces ( 111 ) , ( 100 ) , , ( 110 ) , .
Fig. 7 displays the structure these spectra indicate .
The ABCDEFGH has sides parallel to the cleavage planes of the crystal , the value of the angle being .
With tlje rhomb are associated four atoms of calcium , and so four molecules of calcium carbonnte .
The mass of a molecule is , the density of calcite , therefore the volume of this rhomb must be From this we can calculate that the length of its edge is Mr. W. L. Brag .
: This gives for calcite the length cm .
The at which reflection is to be expected is therefore given by ( I00 FIG. 7 .
The reflection is actually found at .
This shows that the correct number of molecules has been assigned to the rhomb .
The ( 111 ) spectra of the series of carbonates isomorphous with calcite have already been dealt with .
They show that the alternate planes parallel to ( 111)planes have the composition The Analysis of Crystals by the -ray Spectrorneter .
In the simple structure given in fig. the symmetry alone fixes the positions of the calcium and carbon atoms , calcite belonging to the rhomboTable \mdash ; Spectra yielded by Calcite .
Pd rays .
( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) ( 111 ) ( 100 ) ( 110 ) ( 211 ) hedral holohedral class .
But the oxygen atoms have one degree of freedom : their distance from the nearest carbon atom in the ( 111 ) plane can be altered without changing the symmetry .
As in the case of the sulphurs of iron pyrites , a quantitative ation is necessary in order to determine the exact position of these atoms .
We will , employ the ( 100 ) spectra for this purpose .
In Table will be found the intensities of spectra reflected from the ( 100 ) faces of .
It Table CaMg ) * In fig. , the calcium and carbon atoms alone are represented , for the sake of clearness .
Fig. gives a series of sections perpendicular to the trigonal axis EC of the crystal , and here the oxygen atoms are in position .
The of Crystals by the Spectrometer .
will be seen that they differ in character from crystal to crystal .
FOI calcite , the second spectrum is very small compared with the first , for chalybite it is very large .
We will try whaeffect the position of the oxygen atoms has upon the intensity of the ( 100 ) of calcite .
The position of the oxygen atom may be defined by the ratio of the distance to the distance in fig. .
The arrangement of the ( 100 ) planes is shown in fig. , and here the ratio of the distance between a CaCO plane and an plane , to that between successive CaCO planes , is equal to .
The planes CaCO have mass .
The planes have mass 16 .
The spectra intensities for various values of for calcite are calculated to be as follows:\mdash ; The second , third , and fourth spectra are in general so small that it is very difficult to estimate accurately their intensities .
The results for calcite seem to show that the ratio is very nearly .
As for the other crystals , for dolomite seems to be rather smaller than this .
For chalybite it is certainly much larger , about , though it is difficult to account for the fourth spectrum of that crystal .
For rhodochrosite it seems to be about .
In general the value of approximates to It is tempting to consider that in dolomite the arrangement of planes perpendicular to the trigonal axis may be .
This would give the crystal the right symmetry ( rhombohedral tetartohedral ) , the axes being destroyed by the substitution of magnesium atoms for half the calcium atoms .
* It would then be expected that a spectrum would be found corresponding to the distance Mg-Mg pIanes in dolomite , i.e. spectrum at an angle half as small as the usual angle ( 12-13 chamber ) for this series .
No trace of such a spectrum has as yet been found , but it would be easy to miss it .
In the first place the angle for Pd rays would be only , in the second place this spectrum would be small compared with the first .
More careful measurements of crystals will , it is hoped , settle these doubtful points .
* Compare Barlow and Pope , ' Trans. Chem. Soc vol. 98 , p. 1552 .
Ship stance .
In conclusion , I wish to express my thanks to Dr. Hutchinson , who has supplied from the mineralogical collection at Cambridge most of the crystals required for these investigations .
For a quantitative comparison of spectra intensities fine specimens of the various crystals are a necessity , and it is due to his kindness that such specimens could be used .
To Mr. Pierce I am indebted for much assistance with the observations .
I have also to thank the authorities of the University of Leeds for permission to carry out the experiments in the Physical Laboratories , where I had the opportunity of working with one of the -ray spectrometers .
Ship Resistance : The Properties of relling Pressure By T. H. HAVELOCK , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Armstrong College , Newcastle-on-Tyne .
( Communicated by Sir J. Larmor , F.R.S. Received October 7 , \mdash ; Read November 27 , 1913 .
) 1 .
In previous papers*I have investigated the wave-making resistance of a ship by comparing it with a certain simple type of pressure disturbance travelling over the surface of the water .
In a recent paper on the effect of form and size on the resistance of ships , by Messrs. Baker and Kent of the National Physical Laboratory , reference is made to this point of view .
The main work of these authors consists in the examination of model results and the deduction of empirical formula of practical value .
In addition , they connect the wave-making properties with the pressure distribution and have obtained graphs of the latter for various ship forms under certain conditions ; these curves show a range of ative pressure , or defect of pressure , between the positive humps of excess pressure corresponding to the bow and stern .
The authors remark that this will have an effect upon the wave-making , but conclude that it is sufficient for their purpose to be able to state that such pressure disturbances , as they have shown to exist when a ship is in motion , will produce waves which will vary more or less in accordance with the referoed to above .
Under the circumstances it seems advisable to extend the mathematical ' Roy .
Soc. Proc 1909 , , vol. 82 , p. 276 ; also 1910 , , vol. 84 , ; ' Proc. Univ. Durh .
Phil. Soc 1910 , vol. 3 , p. 215 . .
S. Baker and A. L. Kent , ' Inst. Nav .
Arch June , 1913 .

