344 Messrs. J. N. Lockyer and W. C. Roberts [ Mar. 18 , II .
" On the Absorption-Spectra of Metals volatilized by the Oxyhydrogen Flame .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. , and W. Chandler Roberts , Chemist of the Mint .
Received February 4 , 1875 .
The researches which have recently been published on the absorption-spectra of various metals , first by Roscoe and Schuster and subsequently by one of us * , establish beyond all question the facts that\#151 ; I. In addition to the well-known line-spectra , channelled-space spectra are produced by the vapours of certain metals ; and , II .
Such spectra are produced by vapours which are competent to give at other times , not only line-spectra , but continuous spectra in the blue , or blue and red .
As the temperature employed for the volatilization of the metals in the experiments to which we have referred did not exceed bright redness , or that at which cast iron readily melts , the range of metals examined was necessarily limited .
We have therefore considered it desirable to extend these observations to the less fusible metals , as well as ter ascertain whether the spectra of those which were volatilized at the lower temperature would be modified by the application of a greater degree of heat .
For this purpose we have employed the flame of an oxyhydrogen blowpipe .
This instrument , devised by Sainte-Claire Deville and Debrayt , renders it possible to attain high temperatures with great facility , and Stas has already employed their method in the distillation of silver* .
The lime still arranged by him has been modified in that about to be described , in order that the metallic vapour might be conducted into a lime tube or tunnel heated to whiteness , so placed that a beam from an electric lamp could readily traverse it .
Description of the Apparatus and method of Manipulation .
The apparatus employed is shown in the figure , in which A is the block of lime S divided horizontally by a plane through the axis of the tube ( B B ' ) , this tube being 16 centims. long and 30 millims. diameter .
The receptacle ( C ) communicates with the centre of B B ' , and is open at the upper surface of the lime block , in order to admit of the introduction of the oxyhydrogen blowpipe ( D ) , which is provided with a thick nozzle of platinum 20 millims. in diameter .
The ends of the tunnel in the lime were closed by glass plates held on by a suitable clip .
Small * Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xxii .
pp. 362 and 371 respectively .
t Ann. de Chimie et de Physique , tom .
lvi .
p. 413 .
J Stas , ' Sur les lois des proportions Chimiques , ' p. 56 .
S We are indebted to the well-known metallurgist , Mr. J. S. Sellon , of the firm of Johnson and Matthey , for a pure variety of limestone from which the blocks were prepared , and it answered its purpose admirably .
875 .
] on the Absorption-Spectra of Metals .
345 iteral orifices were cut in the lime for the insertion of tobacco-pipe -ems , through which a stream of hydrogen could be passed into the tube id receptacle .
An electric lamp ( E ) , in connexion with a 30-cell Bunsen 's battery , ^as placed opposite one end of the tube , and a spectroscope ( Gr ) opposite he other .
This last instrument was by Desaga , of Heidelberg , and its ingle prism , the angle of which was 60 ' , was capable of distinctly sepa-ating the D lines , at the same time that it enabled us to see the whole pectrum in a single field of view , an essential point in such inquiries .
Che magnifying-power of the telescope was 7*5 linear .
Some preliminary experiments indicated the advisability of increasing he length of the column of vapour .
To effect this , a tube 30 centims. ong was made in a fresh block of lime , the cavity being arranged as before ; in each end a short accurately fitting iron tube , luted with a fixture of graphite and fireclay , was inserted ; and the total length of he column thus became 60 centims. The lime block ( C ) with its fittings was then placed in the charcoal-furnace ( E ) , by means of which the whole could be raised to a high temperature .
As soon as the block was heated to bright redness , the metal , the vapour of which was to be examined , was introduced into the cavity ( 0 ) , and the flame of the oxyhydrogen blowpipe ( D ) was allowed to play on its upper surface , care being taken to employ an excess of hydrogen , lu almost every case the metal experimented on was rapidly volatilized ( the exceptions being gold and palladium ) .
The central portion of the VOL. XXIII .
2 D 316 Messrs. J , N. Lockyer and W. C. Roberts [ Mar. 18 , lime block was raised to a white heat by the action of the blowpipe .
As the glass plates rapidly became clouded by the condensation of the metallic vapours , it was necessary to adopt an arrangement by which they could be easily replaced .
We may state that , among the precautions which we adopted in order to assure ourselves that oxides were not present to disturb the accuracy of the results , one of the glass plates was removed at the conclusion of each experiment , and the presence of an excess of hydrogen conclusively proved by igniting it at the open end .
We were enabled at any time , by modifying the conditions of the gas-supply , to introduce the spectrum of the oxyhydrogen flame .
It may further be stated that , with few exceptions , the metals were previously melted in a stream of hydrogen and enclosed , until experimented on , in sealed glass tubes .
We ascertained that the effect of oxides , and of the metallic rain due to condensation , was to produce a general absorption obviously different from the special effects of absorption which we now proceed to record .
Details oe the Experiments .
Silver .
Eifty grammes of pure metal were placed in the cavity ( C ) , and this amount produced a continuous supply of vapour for about 10 minutes .
With the smaller thickness given by the first lime block , and with a less powerful blast , the spectrum of silver consisted of an absorption in the blue which at times extended almost to the green .
With the elongated tube and a stronger blast an exquisite channelled-space absorption was observed , the channels being far enough apart to render them very conspicuous in the field of view ; at the same time there was continuous absorption in the blue .
It was specially observed that there was no absorption in the red .
It may be interesting to note that the vapour of silver when condensed into fine particles , escaping into an atmosphere of hydrogen , is blue by reflected light .
Cojpjper .
With the greatest thickness only a continuous absorption in the blue could be obtained .
Sodium .
Only the darlc D line was observed , no traces of channelled-space absorption being visible .
Calcium .
' We operated upon a small piece of metal prepared by the late Dr. Matthiessen , but no result was obtained .
1875 .
] on the Absorption-Spectra of Metals .
347 Aluminium .
When the temperature was so high that the spectrum of the flame was isible , an absorption was suspected in the violet ; and the appearance lid not change on one glass end being removed .
Zinc .
Many experiments were made on this metal ; but there are several joints connected with it which require further investigation , and we herefore reserve our remarks on the spectrum of zinc for a future jccasion .
Cadmium .
Under both conditions of thickness the vapour of cadmium gave , in he blue only , an absorption which was very decided ; an absorption in he red was also noticed which had not been observed in previous experi-aents when a low temperature was employed .
Manganese .
A small quantity of this metal was prepared with great care by Mr. 3ayly , one of the assistant assayers , and it gave a distinct absorption a the red and blue , with evidences of a channelled-space spectrum .
In ; repetition of the experiment a more distinct channelled-space spectrum vas observed .
Iron .
The metal employed had been obtained by electro-deposition in the tianner suggested by Mr. Jacobi .
Its vapour gave a slight continuous ibsorption in the blue .
Cobalt Iso gave a slight continuous absorption in the blue , but less than in he case of iron .
Nickel .
This metal behaved in the same manner as cobalt , the absorption being tbout equal in amount .
Chromium .
The amount of metal volatilized was very small , but a fine channelled-'pace spectrum was observed .
Tin .
This metal caused a considerable absorption in the blue , but less in he red , no traces of a channelled-space spectrum being visible .
Antimony .
In results already published it is stated that at the low temperature mtimony gives a channelled-space spectrum .
In the present experi2 d 2 348 On the Absorption-Spectra of Metals .
[ Mar. 18 ments we observed merely absorption in the blue ; and this is the only case in which the effects at a high temperature were inferior to those at a low temperature .
As the purity of the metal first employed may be doubted , little reliance can be placed on these exceptional results .
Bismuth .
With the greatest thickness the absorption of bismuth is strikingly similar to that of iodine at a dull red heat .
We have first a bank of continuous absorption in the blue with a sharp boundary on the less refrangible side , and then a channelled-space absorption throughout the entire green part of the spectrum reaching to D. Lead .
This metal at first caused an absorption at both ends of the spectrum ; shortly afterwards the whole spectrum was extinguished .
As this is a readily oxidizable metal , special care was taken to prove that a large excess of hydrogen was present .
Thallium .
We are indebted to Mr. Crookes for a generous supply of this metal .
The characteristic green line of thallium was observed bright , the light of the arc not being reversed ; and it may be interesting to note that the vapour of this metal was incandescent five minutes after the withdrawal of the flame .
Gold .
A distinct absorption in the blue and red was observed , but there were certainly no traces of a channelled-space spectrum .
The spectral lines due to the oxyhydrogen flame were very conspicuous .
It may be noted that the amount of gold volatilized was only OOl oz. ; but this quantity of metal was sufficient to produce an abundant supply of vapour .
Palladium .
This metal caused a distinct absorption in the blue , but no effect was noticed at the red end of the spectrum .
There was no channelled-space spectrum , and the lines caused by the oxyhydrogen flame were barely visible .
Selenium .
With the greatest thickness employed a channelled-space spectrum was given by selenium .
Iodine .
It will be remembered that , according to the results already published by one of us , iodine vapour exhibits , at a low temperature , a channelled-space spectrum , and a bank of absorption in the violet .
These later experiments showed that , at the more elevated temperature , this bank [ 875 .
] On certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
349 vas broken up and disappeared , leaving a continuous channelled-space spectrum .
These experiments , made at the Royal Mint , were often prolonged for nany hours consecutively .
They involved much furnace-work of a pecu-iarly trying nature ; and we have much pleasure in acknowledging he assistance we received from Mr. Edward Rigg , one of the assistant issayers , who conducted many of the tedious manipulations with great skill and patience .
We should also mention that the care exercised by Joseph Grroves , senior fireman , in the preparation of the furnace and the ime-moulds , contributed in no small measure to the success of the experiments .
It appears to us that these experiments , conducted at the high temperature of the oxyhydrogen flame , go far to support the conclusions which were drawn from the experiments at a lower temperature .
First , in passing from the liquid to the most perfect gaseous state , vapours are composed of molecules of different orders of complexity ; and second , this complexity is diminished by the dissociating action of heat , each molecular simplification being marked by a distinctive spectrum .
There is also an intimate connexion between the facility with which the final stage is reached , the group to which the element belongs , and the place which it occupies in the solar atmosphere .
III .
" On the Liquation , Fusibility , and Density of certain Alloys of Silver and Copper .
" By W. Chandler Roberts , Chemist of the Mint .
Communicated by Dr. Percy , F.R.S. Received March 11 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The author states that the most remarkable physical property of silver-copper alloys is a molecular mobility , in virtue of which certain combinations of the constituents of a molten alloy become segregated from the mass , the homogeneous character of which is thereby destroyed .
These irregularities of composition have long been known , and reference is made to them in the works of Lazarus Erckem ( 1650 ) and of Jars ( 1774 ) .
A very complete memoir was published in 1852 by Levol , who did much towards ascertaining the nature and defining the limits of this molecular mobility .
He discovered the important fact that an alloy containing 71*89 per cent , of silver is uniform in composition .
Its chemical formula ( Ag3 Cu2 ) and peculiar structure led him to conclude that all other alloys are mixtures of this , with excess of either metal .
The electric conductivity of these alloys was studied in 1860 by Mat-thiessen , who doubte 'd the accuracy of Levol 's theory , and viewed them as " mechanical mixtures of allotropic modifications of the two metals in each other .
"

