k FIG. II .
a FIG. IV I A I 4 b B G FIG. III .
AB P P P C GD PE g H e FIG. I. C D fAA f FG e EE H Ag Philosoph. Transact. No. 28 .
B A CD E F G I L I ~H O K I I ~ L N ~ I K ~L I L H Mr r r r r Q P r r S r III .
The Description and manner of Using a late Invented Set of small Pocket-Microscopes , made by James Wilson ; which with great ease are applied in viewing Opake , Transparent and Liquid Objects : as the Farina of the Flowers of Plants , &amp;c. The Circulation of the Blood in Living Creatures , &amp;c. The Animalcula in Semine , &amp;c. THe Use of Microscopes is so well known , that it 's as needless to attempt their Recommendation to the Inquisitive , as it would be tedious to numerate their particular advantages in Natural Inquiries .
No one who looks into the Intimate structure of the regular Productions of Nature , but must readily confess our Eyes stand in great need of these Magnifying Opticks : Nor is it a little entertaining to find the excellent Mechanism and Beauty of Natural Objects appear more Finished , by how much They are Magnified with good Microscopes : On the other hand , what confusion must it be to an Atheist ( if there can be such an one ) to see the most Celebrated pieces of Art appear Course , Deformed , and altogether more Unfinished , by how much they are magnified .
The late Improvements made by Magnifying Glasses are not so much owing to the Making Them and Composing Microscopes , as the Methods of applying Objects for the advantage of Light ; in which I hope the following described-Instruments will not be found inferior to any yet made , at least commonly sold .
Experience , as well as the Authority of the Excellent ~ Dr Hook , assures us , That Single Magnifying Glasses ( when they can be used ) are preferable to Microscopes , composed of two or more MagniF fffffff fying ~ In his Preface to ~ fying Classes .
It is far from my design to Discommend any sort of Microscopes now in Use , or to recommend those I make , any further than they are found Useful by those Inquisitive Gentlemen who are pleased to have Them of me .
This Set of Microscopes has Eight different Magnifying Glasses ; seven of which may be Used , with two different Instruments , for the better applying Them to various Objects : One of these Instruments is represented Fig. ~ .
AA A , and is made of Ivory , it hath 3 thin Brass Plats , E , E , and a Spring of Brass H within it ; to one of the thin Plats of Brass is fixed a piece of Cork F , with a concavity G ... . .
both in the Cork and Brass to which it is affixed : In one end of this Instrument there is a long Screw , ~ with a Glass , C , screwed in the end of it : In the other end there is a hollow Screw , o o , wherein any of the Magnifying glasses are screwed when they are to be made use of .
The 8 different Magnifying glasses are all set in Ivory , 7 of which are set in the manner of Fig. IV .
n. 4 .
The greatest Magnifier is marked upon the Ivory wherein it is set with n. 1 , the next n 2 , and so on till n. 7 : The 8th Glass is not marked , but set in the manner of a little Barrel Box of Ivory , as in Fig. II .
EEa flat piece of Ivory , whereof there are 8 belonging to this set of Microscopes , ( tho any one who has a mind to keep a Register of Objects may have as many of them as he pleases ) in each of which there are 3 holes fff , wherein 3 or more objects are placed between two thin Glasses , or Talks , when to be used with the greater Magnifyers .
The other Instrument Fig. III .
is made of Brass or Prince 's Metal , with Joints ppp p ; to turn easily any way with a small pair of Tongs G G , which open at the points k , by pressing together the two heads of the Pins II for taking up of Objects : There 's a round piece of Ivory , H , screwed upon the other end of the Tongs , white on the one side for black objects that are opake Bodies ; ( such as Seeds or Sands ) and black on the other side for white ones of that nature .
Upon the sharp end , A , of this Brass Instrument all the 8 Glasses may be fixed , as you see Fig. IV .
n. 4~ there being a hole in the Ivory wherein the Glasses are set for that purpose , with a thin piece of Brass B in manner of a Spring , that holds it firmer : So when any Object is taken up in the points of the Tongs k , or laid upon the other end ~ , it may be very easily ( as any one who sees the Instrument will perceive ) applied to the true distance of any of the Glasses by the help of the Joints ppp p , as also the Screw C , and Wheel D , which will bring the Object to the exactness of the Center or true distance , being regulated by a Spring E. The use of the first mentioned Instrument , Fig. I. AAAA is thus : Take one of your Flat Pieces of Ivory EE or Registers , ( if you please to call them so ) and slide it in betwixt the two thin Plats of Brass EE in the body of the Microscope , so that the Object you intend to look upon be just in the middle , remarking that you put that side of the Plate EE where the Ring is furthest from your eye : Then you are to screw into o o , ( the hollowScrew in the end of the body of your Microscope , )the 3d , 4th , 5th , 6th or 7th MagnifyingGlass ; which being done , while y ' are looking thro your Magnifying Glass upon the Object , you are to Screw in or out the long Screw D in the other end of the body of your Microscope , till you bring your Object into the true Distance , which you will know by seeing the Object Clearly and Distinctly : But seeing that in the greater Magnifyers you can see but a small part of the Object , viz. the Legs or Claws of a Flea ; while you are looking upon any part of the Object , if ye take hold of the end of the Plate E E , whereon the Object lies , and move it gently , you may see the whole Object successively , or any part of the Object you please ; and if that part of the Object you design to look upon be out of the true Distance , remember your End Ffffffff2 Screw Screw D , can always bring it in , by screwing it nearer or farther off .
After this manner may be seen all transparent Objects , Dusts , Liquids , Crystals of Salts , small Insects , such as Fleas , Mites , &amp;c. If they be Insects that will creep away , or such Objects as one intends to keep , they may be placed between the two Register Glasses f. f. For by taking out ( with the point of a Pen-knife ) the Ring that keeps in the Glasses ff where the Object lies they will fall out of themselves ; so you may lay the Object , between the two hollow sides of tem , and put the Ring in as it was before : But if the Objects are Dusts or Liquids , a small drop of the Liquid , or a little of the Dust laid on the outside of the Glass ff , and applied as before , will be seen very easily .
As to the First and Second Magnifying Glasses , being marked with a Cross upon the Ivory wherein they are set , they are only to be used with those Register Plats that are also marked with a cross , wherein the Objects are placed between two thin Taliks , because the thickness of the Glasses in the other Registers or Plates hinders the Object from approaching to the Center or true distance of these Greater Magnifyers .
But the manner of using them is the same with the former .
Only remember to be careful when you put in or pull out the Plate or Register E E , whereon the Object lies , or move it from one Object to another , not to let it rub your Magnifying Glass , which is done by unscrewing a little the End Screw D , when ye put in or pull out your Plate , or move it from one Object to another .
For seeing the Circulation of the Blood at the Extremities of the Arteries and Veins , in the transparent parts of Fishes , Eels , &amp;c. there are two Glass Tubes , the one bigger , and the other lesser , is designed in g g , wherein the ~ is to be put ; when this lesser Tube is used , ye are to unscrew the End Screw D in the body of the Microscope , until the Tube gg can easily enter into that little cavity G of the Brass Plate , fastned to the Cork F , under the other two thin Plats of Brass E E : When the Tail of your Fish lies flat to the Glass Tube , set it opposite to your Magnifying glass , and by screwing in or out your End Screw D , as is said before , you may easily bring it to the true distance , and see the Blood circulate with great pleasure .
When the Bigger Tube is to be used with a larger Fish , or Frog ; then you are to take out the Brass Plate GF fastned to the Cork , by pressing down the other two Plates EE and the Spring H to the end of the Microscope B ; and by turning the Cork and Brass Plate GF sideways , you may easily either take it out and put it in again ; when the Cork-plate GF is out , the larger Tube will easily enter into the body of the Instrument , and is to be used as the other lesser one .
If you would see the Blood Circulate in a Frog 's Foot , choose such a Frog as will just go into your Tube , then with a little Stick , &amp;c. expand the Hinder foot of the Frog , and apply it close to the side of the Tube , observing that no part of the Frog hinders the Light coming on its Foot , and when you have it at the just distance , by means of the Screw D , as abovesaid , you will see the rapid Motion of the Blood , in its Vessels , which are very Numerous , in the Transparent thin Membrane that 's between the Frogs Toes : For this Object the 3d and 4th Magnifyers will do very well ; but you may see the Circulation in the Fails of Water-Newts with the 5th and 6th Glass , by reason the Globules of the Blood of those Newts are as big again as the Globules of the Blood of Frogs or small Fish , as has been taken notice of by Mr Cowper in N. 280 .
of these Transactions , page .
1184 .
N. B. The Circulation cannot be so well seen by the 1st and 2d Magnifyers , because the thickness of the Glass wherein the Fish lies hinders the Approx .
The Glass , placed in the manner of a Barrel Box , Fig. II , is only to be used with the Brass Instrument ( or in your Hand ) being the least Magnifyer , for greater Objects , such as Flies and common Insects , &amp;c. The hole ( a ) in the side of this Box fig. II .
is to be fixed on the point A of the Brass Instrument , remembring to put the end ( b ) next to yourEye~ and the other to the Object ; so if you take up any Insect in the point of the Tongs k , or lay any opake Object on C the other end , you may approach them to the true distance by help of the Joints and Screw spoken of before C~ D , P E , and see them distinctly .
In the viewing of Objects , one ought to be careful not to hinder the light from falling upon Them , by the Hat , Perruke , or any other thing , especially when they are to look upon opake Objects : for nothing can be seen with the best of Glasses , unless the Object be in a due distance , with a sufficient light .
The best Lights for the Plats or Registers , where the Object lies between the two Glasses , is a clear Sky light , or where the Sun shines on any white thing , or the reflection of the light from a Looking-glass .
The light of a Candle is likewise good for the circulation of very small Objects , tho it be a little uneasy to those who are not practised in Microscopes to find out the light of the Candle .
By what is here said , it 's hoped that the use of this Microscope , easy of it self , will be much easier to those that use it ; yet it cannot be doubted of This , as of all other Instruments of this nature , but that Usus plura docebit .
For the convenience of those who would Draw ; or make any Sketches or Designs~ after Microscopical Objects , I have also made a Pedestal to fix the Two Instruments above described , and make them stationary to any convenient Light .
This Pedestal may be placed on a Table , &amp;c. and after the Object and Light are fixed , as many persons as please may view the Object , without any trouble or difficulty in finding the Light~ The rest of the annexed Figures were Drawn by this Microscope from several Objects .
A , B , C , D , E , F represent the Feathers of the Wings of Butterflys and Moths ; A , B , are the same , but differently magnified .
A , was expressed by the 4th Glass , and B , as it appeared by the first .
The rest , being taken from different parts of those Insects , C , D , E , F , were all viewed by the 4th Glass .
G is one grain of the farina of the capilaments of Maloes , by the first Glass .
H , H , is the Tail of a small Fish , viewed when living by the 4th Glass , iiii is the part of the Tail next to the Body of the Fish , where the Trunks of the Veins and Arteries pass together .
IIII their extremities , which appear united .
kkk other inosculations , with the Arteries and Veins appearing in the transparent Membrane , between the Cartilages K K. LLLL the Cartilages composed of several Joints , on each side of which the Trunk of a Vein and Artery passes .
M an animal culum , whereof a great number appeared moving themselves up and down on the Tail of the Fish , while the Circulation was a viewing .
Na side view of the same animalculum .
O another animalculum of a different figure from the former , that stuck to the Tail of the Fish by its jagged extremity , and frequently drew its long Body out and in again .
PQ one of the Lice found on that ~ , called ~beus Pediculosus by the 4th Glass .
P Its Anus .
Q Its two Claws , not unlike those of a Lobster~ rrrr the extremities of its Feet , which have a remarkable contrivance for sticking fast to the polished surface of the ~ , not in the manner of Claws , as many other Insects ; but divided into Capilaments , as expressed in the Figure .

