]\gt ; Decembe ' 10 , 1885 .
Professor G. G. STOKES , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The President announced that he had appointed as Vice-Presidents\mdash ; The Treasurer .
Dr. Archibald Geikie .
Sir Joseph Hooker .
Professor Huxley .
General Strachey .
Dr. John Anderson ( elected 1879 ) was admitted into the Society .
Pursuant to notice , Adolf Baeyer , Felix Klein , A. Kowalewski , and Sven Loven were balloted for and elected Foreign of the Society .
The following Papers were read:\mdash ; 1 .
" " Preliminary Results of a Comparison of certain simultaneous ctuations of the Declination at Kew and at Stonyhurst the Years 1883 and 1884 , as recorded by the Magnetographs at these \ldquo ; By the Rev. STEPHEN JOSEPH PERRY , F.R.S. , Director of the Stonyhurst Observatory , and BALFOUR ] , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics at the Owens College , Manchester .
Received October 31 , 1885 .
From a comparison made by Messrs. Sidgreaves and Stewart Proc. Roy .
Soc October , 1868 ) , between a few prominent simultaneous changes of declination at Kew and at Stonyhurst , it appeared that the ratio between the magnitudes of snch changes was not constant , but depended to some extent upon the abruptness of the disturbance .
With the view of examining into this matter , we have made a more detailed comparison , selecting for this purpose some 1885 .
] Fluctuations of Declination at Stonyhurst .
36.3 of the best marked fluctuations during the years 1883 and 1884 , botl large and small , abrupt and non-abrupt .
There are two ways in which such a comparison may be made , the first of these being to measure the vertical difference in the declination curve between the two turning points of a fluctuation .
This is the method which we have pursued in this investigation .
It is , however , subject to the objection that the course of the curve betweetl two such poiuts is not precisely a straight line , and hence that this course embraces different values of abruptness .
On the whole , however , this method as we have used it appeal'S to us to lead to definite , and we think not inaccurate , resuits .
The other method would be to compare together the simultaneous rates of change of the declination at the two observatories , selecting for this purpose such portions of the l.ecords as present the appearance of c.onstant slope , that is to say are straight lines .
This method we have not hitherto pursued , but it is possible that may do so , and compare it with the other in a contemplated future research .
It is unnecessary to give a description of the magnetographs at the two observatories , suffice it to say that both declination nets are as nearly as ) ossible of the same size and weight , being inches long , inch broad , and inch thick .
The scale of the arrangement is , however , different at the two observatories in such a manner that at Kew 1 mm. of scale hile at Stonyhurst 1 mm. of scale .
It would thus appeal that equal vertical at Kew and at Stonyhurst are to each other very nearly in the proportion of 1 to .
This is proportion which we shall use in the present paper .
For Kew results , we are indebted to the kindness of the Kew Committee ; of Mr. Whipple , Superintendent of ths Kew Observato ; and of Mr. Baker , the magnetical assistant there .
In the following table ( I ) we have embodied the actual results of measurements : \mdash ; Rev. S. J. Perry and Prof. Balfour Stewart .
[ Dec. 10 , 1885 .
] Fluctuations of Declination at and Stonyhurst .
365 1885 .
] Fluctuations at and ) Rev. S. J. Perry and Prof. Balfour Stewar 1885 .
] Fluctuations of Declination at and Stonyhurst .
) We do not know of a single instance in which the fluctuation is nob in the same direction at both observatories .
We ve given the G.M.T. of the commencP , meant and end of each fluctuation at each observatory .
Practically speaking , the times at both places are so nearly simultaneous that we do not feel justified in asserting that they are not quite so .
Occasionally , however , there are indications that certain short period flnctuations are not of the same duration at both places .
In what follows we have ejected such cases ; also we have adopted the durations as recorded at the Kew Observatory , rejecting however all cases when these are less than five minutes , inasmuch as an accurate measure of duration is essential to our method .
Let us now , simply as a conjecture which may be of service in indicating tlJe best method of treating the obsex.vations of Table I , suppose that in these disturbances two causes ars in operation , and that the result is due partly to true magnetic , and in part to secondary cnrrents caused by these changes .
Let denote the whole observed value of the disturbance at Kew , and of this let denote the portion due to strictly magnetic change , also let be the portion of the whole disturbance caused by secondary action , being a constant which may conceivably be either or negative , and denoting the duration .
Hence .
In like manner let denote the whole change .
We are , perhaps , justified in and being constants .
Hence we shall have , that is to say , will be fnnction of the duration .
It thus appears that the value of will , accol.ding to this or indeed according to any probable hypothesis of this nature , be independent of the values of and , and be a simple function of the duratlon .
These reasons have induced us to construct the following table ( II ) , in which the ratio is ascertained for disturbances of val'ying durations .
Rev. S. J. Perry Prof. Bulfour Stcwart .
[ Dec. 1 1885 .
] of at and Stonyhurst .
371 Rev. S. J. and Prof. Balfour Stewart .
[ Dec. 10 , Table II will explain itseIf .
In it we have embodied the various individual observations of Table I , with the following exceptions:\mdash ; On accoullt of apparently On ac.count of the duration nequal duration .
being under five minutes .
No. 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
No. 10 From Table 11 we may deduce bhe following conclusions:\mdash ; 1 .
) In the very great of cases the angular value of the declination turbance is greater for Stomyhurst than for Kew .
( 2 .
) ratio is certainly greater for disturbances of short than for those of long duration .
Our are not , however , sufficiently extensive to enable us to represent this ratio graphically as a function of the duration .
( 3 .
) As far as we can tell from a limited number of observahons the value of the above ratio does not depend on the magnitude of the distur.bance .
We trust to make on a future occasion a more complete comparison between the simultaneous magnetic fluctuations as derived from the curves of the two observatories .
NOTE.\mdash ; It might be desirable to add a few words in fuUer explanation of the method adopted .
This method is founded on the implied belief that disturbances are indications of the way in which the magnetic earth rights itself with regard to the forces acting upon it .
Our experience is that such disturbances never occur singly , but frequently as couplets or sets of couplets .
There is no such thing as a magnetic tableland separated from another by a single slope .
We have rather a rise and then a fall , or it may be a fall and then a rise , and in the end the state of things , after urbance has its course , is not greatly different from that before it began .
This , as well as the resuIts of this paper , would lead us to imagine Fluctuations of )eclination at and Ston .
that ndary currents must have an influence , perhaps a powerful one , in causing disturbances .
In order to fix the mind , let us here imagine that this secondary current ( exhibited probably in the shape of an earth current ) is opposed in direction to true magnetic change .
We should , therefore , expect something the following nature .
ED or ange , ement .
DF or magnetic change , second moven ) DC or In the first of these diagrams AB denotes a true magnetic descsndiug } ange .
while ACB is the observed disturbance couplet .
In the sccond denotes a true magnetic ascending change , while is the observed disturbance couplet .
In our various measurements , therefore , it is assumed that we pass from a po nt of no disturbance , A or , to or , in which there is a magnetic change nnd a superposed secondary current change , or from a point in .
these two forces act to a final point , or , of no disturbance .
Now the maximum earth current force will depend upon the rate of magnetic change .
This maxiluum rate we oannot tell , but we may imagine it to be proportional to the mean of magnetic change , being possibly represented iu approximate manner by the expression\mdash ; magnetic change In otherlf.ords , ourgeneral Nax .
( urrent force a constant ration .
functions of the text would be replaced by the expressions ( taking both branches of the curve ) It would appear from this as well as from the diagrams- that the first turll of couplet should be less than the second .
The result .
in our paper nnot , therefore , be rded as a yslS , but merely as being of sufficient interest to demand fuller inquiry .
1885 .

