]\gt ; On Gigantic Land-Tortoises .
[ Jan. sufficient to secure perfect immunity from external contamination , were found utterly ineffectual .
Thanks to the friendly action of the President of the Royal Society , I enabled to escape from this atmosphere to a purer air .
I had a series of tin chambers construoted , which were not permitted to enter the Royal Institution at all , but wers taken straight from the tinman to Kew Gardens .
They were mounted in the excellent laboratory recently erected there by the munificemce of Mr. Jodrell .
In this new position the insuperable difficulties encountered in London disappeared , and the experiments followed the course of those described in my last investigation .
Two of the ohambers gave way ; but on being iized they were found leaky .
Five sound chambers , on the contrary , remained perfectly intact , and they embraced the substances which had given me so much trouble in .
Infusions exposed to the common air at Kew becams rapidly rotten .
A fuller account of these researches shall soon be submitted to the Royal Society .
In them thus far I have been very ably assisted by Mr. Cottrell and his mior colleagus .
Frank Valter .
January 1877 .
Dr. J. DALTON , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Papers were read:\mdash ; I. Description of the Living and Extinct Races of Gigantic LandToltoises.\mdash ; Parts III .
and .
The Races of the Aldabra Group and Mascarene Islands ( Conclusion .
) By Dr. ALBERT F.R.S. Received November 30 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) In continuation of , and concluding , the researches into the history of the Gigalltic L-Tortoises , read before the Royal Society on June 20 , 1874 , and published in the 165th volume of the Philosophical Transac- tions , the author treats in Parts III .
and IV .
of the Tortoises of the Aldabra Mascarenes .
By the addition of the valuable materials obtained by one of the naturalists of the " " Venus \ldquo ; Expedition to Bodriguez , and by the Hon. Edward Newton in lIauritius , as well as by the aid of supplementary information received from other soulces , the author has been enabled to show iu the present parts of his paper that the round-headed On certain Defmite Integrals .
division of Tortoises is confined to Aldabra and never ended to ths lIascarenes propel .
, and that the Tortoises from the latter islands can be externally , though not ically , distinguished as from the apagos Tortoises , as ill be seen from the ing synopsis:\mdash ; I. plate absent .
portion of the skull flat .
Fonrth vertebra biconvex .
Pelvis svmphysial bridge .
A. Gular plate double ; sterntlm of moderate extent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TORTOISES .
B. plate single ; sterllum short . . . . . .
TORTOISES . .
Carapace thiJl , thickened vnrds the ; centre of the lnst vertebral plate raised into a htunp , hich is separated the vertebral by transdepression : Tortoises T. .
indica , T. .
The entire carapace extremely thin and frngile , all th1 bones very slendel .
: To.toisj of .
IT .
plate preseut .
Frontal portion of the skull convex .
Third vertebra ) ] lvex .
Pelvis with narrov ' symphysial bridge .
plate double .
Carapace thick .
ALDABBA TOBTOISES , T. , T. hololissa ) .
II .
" " On Dcfinite Integrals By W. H. L. .
Received December 1876 .
The following is a continuafion of one recently inserted iu the ' oceedings of the Society .
' .
we find

