1891 .
] Chemical Constitution and Physiological Action .
311 III .
" Contributions to the Study of the Connexion between Chemical Constitution and Physiological Action .
Part II .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and J. Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 2,1891 .
( Abstract .
) In a former paper , the authors dismissed ' the alterations which are produced in the action of ammonia by the substitution of alkyl radicals for hydrogen , and by combination of the compound ammonias with different acid radicals .
In the present paper , they have examined on a similar plan the physiological action of some ' bodies of the aromatic series .
The research was begun more than four years ago , a preliminary communication having been made to this Society on March 24th , 1887 .
A good deal of work has been done in connexion with the subject by other observers while the research was in progress .
The results obtained by others , however , are not easy of comparison , while the experiments of the authors , having been made as nearly as possible under the same conditions , yield results which are more easily compared , so as to allow of general conclusions being drawn from them .
They have examined ( 1 ) the physiological action of benzene , and ( 2 ) the alterations which occur in its action when one or more atoms of hydrogen in it are replaced by ( a ) haloid radicals , ( 6 ) alcohol radicals , ( c ) by hydroxyl , ( ) by N02 , and ( e ) by amidogen , NH2 .
They have also examined the modifications in the action of various members of the series by changes in temperature .
" They describe the general symptoms produced by benzene and its compounds in frogs and rats , their action on muscle and nerve , on reflex action , on respiration , and circulation .
They describe a new method of registering the blood pressure and pulse , using a slow drum for the former , and a quick one for the latter , so as to have the whole course of the blood pressure during an experiment given in a comparatively short tracing , while samples of the pulse waves are taken at various periods .
They find that the action of benzene and its compounds is chiefly exerted on the spinal cord , although they act also on the cerebrum \gt ; to a slight extent , on nerves and muscle .
Their effect on muscle an nerve is to weaken them , the paralysing action being stronger UPmn 1.he nerve than the muscle .
eir action on the cerebrum is evidenced by lethargy and distinction to voluntary movement both in frogs and rats .
eir a'tion on the spinal cord appears to consist in producing ?
'L .
xux .
T 312 Drs. Brunton .
and Cash .
Connexion between [ Mar 5 increased excitability , greater diffusion of stimuli with diminished power and definiteness of movement .
Thus slight stimuli in the frog produce movement more readily in the poisoned than in the normal condition , but the movement , instead of being limited to one limb , vigorous and steady , is diffused over several limbs , feeble and tremulous or jerking .
In frogs , the tremors or jerking always occur on attempted movement , and sometimes , to a slight extent , when at rest .
If the dose be large , they are succeeded by paralysis .
Absorption of the drug is slow and irregular , and it may cause local rigor of the muscles .
The heart remains long irritable .
Haloid radicals do not modify the action of benzene to the same extent as they do that of ammonia , but they do so in somewhat the same direction as the authors described in their former paper on this subject .
Monochlorobenzene affects the spinal cord more than benzene , causing spasm and rapid diminution of reflex .
It also weakens the circulation , but does not seem to affect motor nerves or muscles more than benzene .
The bromo- and iodo-compounds have a more powerful paralysing action on the cerebrum than benzene and chlorobenzene , and the compound of iodine with benzene , like its compound with ammonia , appears to have a special tendency to paralyse motor nerves , muscles , and cerebral reflexes , and to depress the heart .
Heat accelerated and cold retarded the action of the substances .
The substitution of alcohol radicals for hydrogen in benzene appears to modify its action in much the same way as one would expect from a general consideration of the properties of the alcohol group , which , as a rule , have a sedative action on the nervous system .
The compounds of benzene with alcohol radicals produce less tremor , less hyperaesthesia , and greater lethargy than the halogen compounds .
The circulation is little affected by them .
They have little action on muscle or nerve , but act more powerfully on the nerve than on the muscle .
Their action appears to be more fleeting than that of the halogen compounds .
Trimethylbenzene ( mesitylene ) was more active than methyl- or dimethyl-benzene .
In poisoning by dimethylbenzene a curious increase of reflex action was observed , after it had almost gone , and spontaneous movement had quit\#169 ; gone .
Substitution of hydrogen by hydroxyl increases the tendency to convulsions .
These are due to the action of the substances on the spinal cord and not on the cerebrum ; they occur independently of voluntary movement , except when the dose is very small , and continue almost unchanged after destruction of the cerebrum .
Slight tremor may occur before destruction of the cerebrum , but it is greatly masked by the powerful contractions referred to .
The position of the 1891 .
] Chemical Constitution and Physiological Action .
313 hydroxyl groups in the di- and tri-oxybenzenes affects their physiological action .
Para-oxybenzene ( resorcin ) has an action similar in kind , hut weaker than the ortho- and meta-oxybenzenes ( hydro-quinone and pyrocatechin ) .
The most characteristic feature of its action is the occurrence , at nearly regular intervals , of clonic convulsions , which never become tonic or tetanic , and are due to the action of the drug on the cord .
They are abolished by the action of curare , even in a limb protected by ligature fronrthe action of both poisons .
Strychnine produces tetanic spasm in a frog poisoned by resorcin , if the symptoms due to the latter drug are only imperfectly developed , but does not do so if the clonic spasms have become well marked .
Large doses cause paralysis , destroying the irritability and conducting power of the cord .
Trioxybenzene ( 1:2 : 3-pyrogallol ) produces more lethargy than resorcin , less tremor on movement , and little spontaneous jerking .
Its power to produce immediate symptoms in the frog is only one-fourth or one-fifth that of resorcin , but it is almost exactly equal to it in its ultimate lethal power .
Amidobenzene ( anilin ) may be regarded either as benzene with one hydrogen replaced by amidogen , NH2 , or as ammonia in which one hydrogen is replaced by phenyl , C6H5 .
In conformity with this constitution , the symptoms produced by it differ from those of benzene and resemble those of ammonia in the tendency to more violent spasm and to greater paralysis of muscle and nerve .
They differ from those of ammonia in the fact that the convulsions never assume the form of true tetanus , the tetanic spasm which the ammonia group would produce being broken up , so to speak , by the action of the phenyl .
With the exception of the hydroxyl compounds , amido-J benzene causes the most rapid occurrence of motor phenomena .
It J produces great tremor after a spring and active incoordinate move-| inent , but no tonic spasm .
Nitrobenzene causes lethargy with increasing tremor on movement , and early abolition of reflex action .
I The effect of several benzene compounds on reflex time was j observed .
The oxybenzenes could not be tested on account of the J sP'ntaneous jerks to which they give rise .
The general action is to j c^use a lengthening in the reflex time , but a primary shortening1 was I 0 8eiyod frequently in the case of chlorobenzene , slightly in methyl- , ] lrne%l- , and ethyl-benzene .
] In producing muscular rigor , chlorobenzene is considerably more powerful than the bromo- or iodo-compound , and is intermediate in i b renSfh between methyl- and dimethyl-benzene .
Of the methyl-J meII'yh is the strongest , the dimethyl- next , and the triJ , , weakest .
The action of these compounds on muscles if , I j 8*je^ore\gt ; inversely to the amount of methyl substituted for hydrogen ; J as ^ k'nzene molecule .
Ethyl benzene is nearly the same strength methyl , and stronger than the dimethyl or trimethyl coin .
Y 2 Profs .
J. T. Cash and W. R. Dunstan .
[ Mar. 5 , pounds .
Amidobenzene and nitrobenzene are less active in producing rigor .
The respiration is considerably and early affected in warm-blooded animals ( cats ) by benzene and its compounds .
There is usually a primary acceleration , followed by slowing .
The heart appeared to stop beford the respiration in poisoning by benzene and its haloid compounds , by ethylbenzene , amidobenzene , and nitrobenzene , whilst respiration usually failed before the heart ; or nearly at the same time , in poisoning by the methylbenzenes and oxy benzenes .
The first effect of the benzene compounds oh the pulse or on blood pressure is usually a quickening of the pulse and a ' rise in the pressure .
This is followed by slowing of the pulse and fall of the pressure .
in their preliminary communication in 1887 , the authors directed attention \lt ; to the curious resemblance between the tremor caused by benzene and some other aromatic substances in ' frogs and the symptoms of disseminated sclerosis in man .
In the present paper , they point out also the likeness between the violent slapping movements caused in the frog by some of the haloid compounds of benzene , as well as by amidobenzene , and the sy mptoms of locom otor ataxy in man .
IV .
" The Physiological Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites considered in connexion with their Chemical Constitution .
Part I. The Action of the Paraffinic Nitrites on Blood Pressure .
" By J. Theodore Cash , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Materia Medica in ' the University of Aberdeen , and Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry to the Pharnaaoeutical Society of Great Britain .
Received March 4 , 1891 .
' ( Abstract .
) - CONTENTS .
I. Introductory .
II .
Description* of the Nitrites ; and of the processes Used in preparing them .
III .
Action of\gt ; Amyl Nitrite .
Description of the Method of Investigation .
1^- Action of other Paraffinic Nitrites contrasted with , that of'Amyl Nitrite .
V. 'General Summary of Blood Pressure Experiments .
VI .
General Consideration* of the Modification-of N itrite-action induced by Splanchnic Stimulation and Section .
VII .
Action of Nitrites on the Human Subject .
The present investigation was commenced three years ago , in ord\lt ; r to throw further light on the mode of action ; of the paraffinic nittites when introduced into the animal organism , and particularly tp detti

