A Letter on the Alterations that have taken place in the Structure of Rocks , on the Surface of the basaltic Country in the Counties of Derry and Antrim .
Addressed to Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. By William Richardson , D.D. Read March 17 , 1808 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1808 , p. 187 .
] The general design of this paper is to show the great distance to which the same strata may be found to extend , or to have extended , over the surface of a country , and thereby to explain the existence of small detached portions of the same species of matter at considerable distances from each other , as having been driginally connected by continuity of the same material over the whole surface of the country , whatever be the present interval , and whatever be the quantity of matter which such an hypothesis supposes to have been removed .
The basaltic area which comprehends most part of the county of Antrim and a portion of Derry , appears to Dr. Richardson peculiarly favourable to such speculations , uncommonly regular in its stratification , and highly favoured by nature in the frequent exposure of the strata in their abrupt and precipitous terminations .
In the island of Rathlin , more especially , the original features are most happily displayed , and are still in good preservation .
It is in the periphery at the northern side that the sections are seen to the greatest advantage , as the perpendicular facades are often continued for miles together .
Of these facades , four are more distinguished for their grandeur and beauty than the rest , -Magilligan , Cave Hill , Fairhead , and Bengore .
The two former are the extreme points of the N.W. and S.E. diagonal , and are forty miles asunder ; at the summits of mountains , accessible by land .
The two latter are visible only from the sea , but are more diversified and more curious in their structure .
The promontory of Bengore , which is nearest to the place of Dr. Richardson 's residence , has principally engaged his attention ; and the minute description of its strata forms a considerable portion of his memoir , for the purpose of showing the station which the Giant 's Causeway occupies in the arrangement of the promontory , and also for the purpose of noticing several facts , which he thinks likely to throw light upon the operations performed on our globe since the period of its consolidation .
In the order of the description , Dr. Richardson first gives a general sketch of the promontory when approached from the west , with an account of the inclination , ascent , culmination , and dip of its strata .
Of these he enumerates as many as sixteen , and observes that these are all cut perpendicularly in eleven different places by those mighty walls called in Scotland whyn dykes .
These all reach from the top of the precipice to the water , out of which some of them again emerge in considerable masses , at a distance from the precipice .
The dykes are all constructed of horizontal prisms , which form a strong contrast with the vertical pillars of the strata they intersect ; and yet , says Dr. Richardson , it is but lately that these singular productions have been noticed ; and he states that he himself was the first who observed them , and gave an account which was published in the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy .
For the purpose of giving a more accurate idea of these dykes , Dr. Richardson gives two views of one of them , which he had overlooked at the time that his essay upon that subject was published .
Of the strata which form the fa ?
ade of the precipice , the first is sixty feet in thickness , and consists of large basaltic pillars very rudely formed , but generally extending from one surface of the stratum to the other .
The second consists of a substance red as brick , and about nine feet in thickness .
The third is above fifty feet thick , and consists of that variety of basalt termed irregular prismatic , resembling in its grain the columnar basalt , but differing in its construction ; as its prisms are small , not articulated , unequal and irregular in the vertical or inclined position of their axes .
The fourth is about seven feet thick , columnar but not regular , generally appearing white from a covering of Byssus saxatilis , which has a singular predilection for this stratum .
The fifth is ochreous , but less red than other strata of similar consistence ; this is very friable , and is generally covered by a coating of grass .
The sixth is composed of rude massy pillars , very coarsely formed , ten feet long .
The transition from these to the seventh Dr. Richardson compared to a hand held downwards , and dividing into separate fingers ; since the rude columns of the sixth appear continued into those of the seventh , without any distinct line of separation , but are there found divided into neat slender pillars fifty-four feet in length .
The eighth stratum is also fifty-four feet in thickness , and consists of an irregular prismatic basalt similar to the third .
The ninth is that stratum which has attracted principal attention from the beautiful assemblage of neat pillars of which it consists , and which at the intersection of this stratum have been so long distinguished by the name of the Giant 's Causeway .
This stratum is forty-four feet in thickness ; it first appears at its opposite extremity in Portmoon Bay ; from hence it rises and culminates between Bengore and Pleskin , with its lower edge 200 feet above the water : in its descent at Noffer it composes the group of pillars called the Organ ; at all points wherever it is accessible it has the same grain , with the same size and neatness of its prisms .
The tenth stratum on which these pillars rest , is red as minium , and makes a conspicuous figure from the brightness of its colour .
The six remaining strata are all similar to each other , consisting of tabular basalt , but differing in thickness ; and being separated only by thin ochreous layers , the division is not always discernible .
From a revision of the various circumstances observable in these strata , Dr. Richardson selects certain facts which he considers of importance to geology .
First , that every stratum preserves the same thickness throughout its whole extent .
Secondly , that this uniformity of thickness is interrupted only where the upper surface has been exposed by removal of the superior strata .
Thirdly , that the curvature of the summits of the facades does not correspond in form to the surfaces of the strata underneath .
Fourthly , that the same arrangement does not continue for more than two or three miles .
Fifthly , that wherever materials of different species are in contact , the line of demarcation is always distinct and well defined .
Sixthly , that the upper part of any facades , where the strata are exposed , is generally perpendicular , and the lower steep and precipitous .
Seventhly , that the rude masses which appear in the sea at the base of the precipices , are not , as has been supposed , ruins which have fallen from the strata above , but are remnants of lower strata remaining in their original position .
Eighthly , that these abrupt sections are by no means confined to the coast , but are often formed on the ridges of the hills , at a distance from the sea .
Ninthly , that in all such abrupt terminations of strata , whether on the coast or within land , the materials broken off are completely carried away , without a fragment being left behind .
The formation of these abrupt precipices has been , by some , ascribed to the action of the sea : but it is only by careless observers , in Dr. Richardson 's estimation , that such an hypothesis can be admitted ; since even here the base of that part , which is perpendicular , is elevated 200 or 300 feet above the level of the sea ; and the bases of others are no less than at 1400 feet elevation , and at the distance of four miles from the sea at Magilligan , of thirteen at Bienbraddock , and seventeen miles at Monyneeny .
The exact resemblance between the inland facades and those on the shore , proves them all to have been cut down perpendicularly by the same agent , which has not confined its operations to the coast , or to the periphery of the basaltic area .
We can trace it , says the author , over its whole surface .
Some persons have maintained that the inequalities are those of original conformation ; as if the world had come from the hands of the Creator with all the varieties which now contribute so much to its beauty .
Others , admitting the original continuity of the strata , and their subsequent abruption , have differed concerning the direction in which the cause has acted ; some preferring the milder and more gradual operation of waters from above the surface , which , according to Dr. Richardson , rather tend to level than to raise inequalities ; while others conceive the highest mountains to have been blown up from the bottom of the sea by furious explosions , which , in the author 's estimation , can never have taken place beneath the present rectilinear and parallel strata .
Dr. Richardson assumes as a fact , that strata having very strong resemblance were once continuous , however interrupted we now find them ; for instance , the stratified remnants at the tops of the Seafin and Slievegallon , between which the valley of the Mayola is an excavation 1700 feet deep and three miles wide , were originally connected in their present position by similar materials , the whole of which have been completely carried away .
And again , to the northward , between Seafin and Carntogher , the same stupendous operations have carried away the parts which formerly connected these undisturbed remains of the same strata .
The number of basaltic hummocks thus left on the tops of various mountains , is represented to be considerable , as if they had been left by the unknown sculptor for the express purpose of showing how high the original surface of the country formerly reachedy , -a conclusion which appears formidable ; but the author does not admit that anything is absurd , incredible , or impossible , in geology and cosmogony .

