]\gt ; 363 ] XVI .
On the Motion of fluid , part of which is moving and part Irrotationalty .
M. J. M. HILL , M.A. , Professor of the Illason Science College , Communicated by Professor STOKES , D. C.L. , Sec. R. Received December 29 , 1883 , \mdash ; Read February 7 , 1884 .
INTRODUCTION .
CLEBSCH has shown that the components of the velocity of a fluid , parallel to rectangular axes , may always be expressed thus ; where are systems of surfaces whose in{ , ersections determine the vortex lines ; and the pressure satisfies an equation which is*equivalent to the folowing where is the pressure , the density , and the potential of the forces acting on the liquid .
It is .
shown in this paper that an equation of a complicated nature in only can be obtained in the following cases ( that is to say , as in cases of irrotational motion , the determination of .
the motion depends on the solution of a single equation only ) ( 1 .
) Plane tion , referred to rectangular coordinates The equation is somewhat simpler when the vortex surfaces are of invariable form , and move parallel to one of the axes of coordinates with arbitrary velocity .
( 2 .
) Plane motion , referred to polar coordinates The equation is somewhat simpler when the vortex surfaces are of invariable form , and rotate about the origin with arbitrary angular velocity .
( 3 .
) Motion symmetrical with regard to the axis of in planes passing through it , referred to cylindric coordinates The equation is somewhat simpler , when the vortex surfaces are of invariable form , and move parallel to the axis of with arbitrary velocity .
*British Association Report for 1881 , p. 62 .
moving irrotationally contains the same vortex lines , and may be taken at the surface Now , if the integral taken of the equation in do actually correspond to a case of fluid motion in which part of the fluid is moving rotationally and part irrotationally , the most obvious way to find the irrotational motion will be to find its current function from the conditions supplied by the fact that the components of the velocity are continuous at the surface .
Examples I. and III .
of this paper have been solved in this manner .
If after taking any integral of the equation in it be found theoretical]y impossible to determine the current function of an irrotational motion outside the surface which shall be continuous with the rotational motion inside it , then the integral in question does not correspond to such a case of fluid motion .
In this method no assumption is made as to the distribution of the vortex lines ( as in the method of HELMHOLTZ ) before commencing the determination of the irrotational motion .
If , however , the rotational motion be known , the components of the velocity are known for this part of the fluid .
Let the components of the velocity be expressed in CLEBSCH'S forms , so that are known .
, let the forms be so arranged that the surface separating the rotationally lloving fluid from that which is moving irrotationally is the surface Then at this surface the components of the ] ocity are Now , obtain in any manner a velocity potential for space outside continuous with all over the surface .
This is theoretically possible always .
If the velocity potential so obtained make the velocity and pressure continuous all over the surface , then a possible case of motion will been obtained .
The conditions to be satisfied in order that the velocity may be continuous at the surface are that there .
In order that the pressure may be also continuous , it is further necessary that all over the surface The most obvious way of obtaining the velocity potential will be to apply HOLTZ'S method of finding the components of the velocity in terms of the supposed distribution of magnetic matter throughout the space occupied by the rotationally moving fluid .
It must , however , be remembered , as is remarked by Mr. HICKS in his report to the OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
365 British Association on " " Recent Progress in Hydrodynamics Part 1 , ' ' That the results refer to the cyclic motion of the fluid as determined by the supposed distribution of magnetic matter , and do not give the most generai motion possible It appears also from Examples I. and III .
of this paper that it is not possible to assume arbitrarily the distribution of vortex lines , even when it can be shown that the equations of motion are satisfied at all points where the fluid is moving rotationally , and then to proceed to calculate the irrotational motion by means of the supposed distribution of magnetic matter .
For in these examples , values of the components of the velocity of a rotational motion , satisfying the equations of motion throughout a finite portion of the plane of , are found .
Thus the distribution of vortex lines , and , therefore , that of the supposed magnetic matter over a finite portion of the plane of is known .
The surfaces that always contain the same vortex filaments are found .
Inside one of these the supposed magnetic matter is distributed , the current function at external points is calculated by HELMHOLTZ'S method , and it is shown that the velocity thence deduced is not continuous with the velocity of the rotational motion at the surface , which separates the rotationally moving liquid from that moving irrotationally .
Another way ( suggested by CLEBSCH'S forms ) of obtaining the velocity potential will be as follows:\mdash ; Calculate the quantity Treating as the density of a material distribution inside , taking no account of the value of outside the suriace , obtain the potential of this distribution .
Let the potential inside be , and outside let it be will , in general , differ from ; first , because may contain many-valued terms , which may be denoted by , satisfying LAPLACE'S equation ; and , secondly , because may be the potential of a distribution of matter , part of which is outside Accordingly , it is necessary to examine whether .
is possible to find many-valued terms satisfying LAPLACE'S equation such that Then will be the velocity potential of the irrotational motion , provided that it give zero velocity at infinity .
Example II .
of this paper is solved in this manner .
It might also have been solved by IfELMHOLTZ'S method .
The few illustrations which follow are a first attempt to apply the theory to particular cases .
Example I. treats of the motion of an elliptic vortex cylinder of invariable form parallel to one of its axes with arbitrary velocity .
The irrotational motion outside the cylinder cannot be supposed to extend to an infinite distance .
Example II .
treats of KIRCHHOFF'S elliptic vortex cylinder , in which the angular velocity of the rotation of the cylinder is a function of the vortex strength , and the axes of the eliptic section of the cylinder .
* Report for 1881 , Part I. , p. 64 .
where the vortex strength is any fimction of the distance from the axis , the irrotational motion continuous therewith being supposed to extend to an infinite distance .
Example .
treats of a possible case of rotational motion inside a certain hollow smooth surface of annular form , which moves parallel to its straight axis with arbitrary velocity .
1 .
for the components of the velocity of a liquid parallel to fixed rectangular axes in space where the surfaces const .
, const .
determine by their intersections the vortex lines , and always contain the same particles of liquid .
If be an arbitrary function of and similar expressions for Thus these expressions for the components of the velocity are still in CLEBSCH'S form .
are each functions of satisfies the same equation as * Taking as independent variables three families of surfaces , always containing the same particles , and the time , the writer obtained independently CLEBSCH'S forms in an article published in the Quarterly Journal of Pure Applied Mathematics , February , 1880 , vol. xvii .
, entitled ' On Some Properties of the Equations of Hydrodynamics A demonstration of the same forms for any fluid in which the density is any function of the pressure is contained as a particular case in a paper entitled ' On Some General Eiquations which include the Equations of Hydrodynamics lvhich is published in the Transactions of the Cambridge Philosop loso hical Society , vol. , part , the writer having previously seen paper , " " Ueber Die Integration der hydrodynamischen Gleichungen ' Crelle , ' Bd .
, p. 1 .
OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
367 Moreover , since is au arbitrary function of ; it can be so chosen that may be any.required function of ; i.e. , any vortex sheet .
Therefore the in CLEBSCH'S expressions for may be considered as the surface of any vortex sheet ; consequently , as the surface separating the moving fluid from that which is moving irrotationally .
Therefore , if be the velocity potential of the irrotationally moving fluid , all over the surface , supposing the motion continuous there ; Since also in the rotationally moving fluid , and in the irrotationally moving fluid , it follows that the condition for the continuity of the pressure at the surface separating the rotationally moving fluid from that moving irrotationally is that all over the surface Now suppose that there exists a solution of the three equations to which are subject as given by CLEBSCH ; then to find , it is necessary to find it so as to satisfy the above surface conditions .
In any case in which is the potential of a ibution of matter inside the surface , together with many valued terms satisfying LAPLACE'S equation , then is the potential of this distribution- calculated for a point outside , together with the same valued terms , provided that it give zero values for the components of the velocity at infinity .
With regard to the supposed distribution of matter , its total mass must be zero , in the case of an incompressible fluid .
For total mass of supposed distribution of matter , the integration being extended over the surface But this ( total flux outwards across the surface ) Therefore total mass of supposed distribution of matter 2 .
Plane Motion .
Rectangular Coordinates .
In the ordinary notation the -equations are From which can be deduced Now regarding this as a particular case of motion in three dimensions in which , the motion being parallel to the plane , it is possible to put by means of CLEBSCH'S forms Therefore This result has been deduced from the three equations of motion , and CLEBSCH'S forms for the components of the velocity .
-But it can be deduced from the equation of continuity alone and the following equations known to be satisfied by PROFESSOR M. J. M. HILL ON THE MOTrON OF FLUID , PART Therefore Therefore as before .
But since also and Therefore some function of 3 .
In what immediately follows will be supposed constant .
Using suffixes to denote differential coefficients Now let be a function of such that Therefore therefore therefore Treating this as a partial differential equation for , the auxiliary system of equations is OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
371 Whence each of these Since , in the differential equation , there are no differential coefficients with regard to , const .
is one integral of the auxiliary system .
By means of the equation const .
, can be expressed as a function of the constant , , and .
As the constant will have to be replaced by afterwards , it may be said that can be expressed as a function of ; and when this value of is substituted in , let the result be denoted by .
Let differentials of the variables regarded as independent be denoted by respectively .
Then arbitrary function of It will be convenient to write the arbitrary function in the form Therefore Therefore will appear in the form equations of the vortex sheets are metions of and therefore of Now and therefore that is therefore But therefore substituting value of in the equation it may be shown that To determine the current function , there are the equations From the first of these equations where is the symbol of an arbitrary function .
Now is a function of ; and occurs in it only because it is contained in , therefore bitrary function of and but the arbitrary function of and may be supposed included in , therefore therefore But OF WHICH IS MOVING ALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
873 whence therefore But arbitrary function of and Before the last integration can be performed must be expressed as function of .
If be expressed as a function of then can occur in it only through .
Therefore Therefore where is the symbol of an arbitrary function .
therefore Hence choosing the arbitrary function so that this value of agrees with its known value .
And Comparing now and with their known values , it will follow that therefore is a function of only and may be considered to be included in .
As may also be considered to be included in it , it follows*that [ This form of may be obtained much more conveniently thus .
Since and it follows that therefore The same way of obtaining is applicable to Arts .
5 and 8.\mdash ; August 30th , 1884 .
] form in which appears does not appear to be related to and in the same way , as would be expected .
But denoting differentials of by , it may be shown that The two forms of A will agree if function of Suppose that , then But , whence therefore whence therefore so that the two forms agree .
OF WBICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
375 But some function of therefore where is an arbitrary function , therefore The arbitrary functions and ) being implicitly colltained in the integrals need not be expressed .
4 .
Now suppose that there exists a vortex of invariable form which moves with arbitrary velocity along the axis of .
Let the equation to its surface be a function of , and only , where is an arbitrary function of only .
Let then therefore Also can be expressed as a function of only from the equation .
Therefore can be expressed as a function of only , not Therefore does not contain , since does not contain , and may now be written Therefore In this case the equation takes the form therefore and now therefore is the current function .
Of course this could have been directly deduced from the form of the current function in the preceding article by tting 5 .
To obtain similar expressions in polar coordinates .
Let and be the radial and tangential velocities .
Therefore In this case the equation corresponding to the equation in of Art .
3 is The auxiliary system of equations is Let differentials of the variables when regarded as independent be denoted by respectively .
Therefore since , and it follows that OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLy .
377 therefore But therefore To determine the current function there are the equations From the first of these where is an arbitrary function .
Therefore But whence therefore But where is an arbitrary function .
Therefore Choosing the arbitrary function so that , the value of agrees with its known And since therefore and reasoning as in Art .
3 it follows that And since is a function of , it follows that therefore 6 .
Now take the case of a vortex of invaria le form rotating about the origin .
Let its equation be where is a function of only .
: OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART ALLY .
379 Then as before and therefore and the equation in may be expressed in the form The current function is To obtain this directly from the foregoing article , put for its value 7 .
To obtain expressions when the motion of every element of the fluid is in planes passing through the axis of , the motion being the same in all such planes .
Let be the velocity away from the axis of , and the velocity parallel axis of The equations of motion are Differentiating the first equation with regard to , the second with regard to and subtracting , it can be shown that therefore therefore Observing that This may be written therefore This becomes , on putting in CLEBSCH'S forms , And as Art .
2 this result may be deduced from the equation of continuity and the two equations , and only .
8 .
Hence , supposing constant Let differentials of the variables , when regarded as independent be denoted by , br , respectively , then and To find the current funccion there are the equations OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
381 From the first therefore But whence therefore But t , herefore Hence , choosing so that and therefore the required form for obtained .
and reasoning as in Art .
3 it follows that But is a function of Therefore therefore 9 .
For a vortex of invariable form which moves parallel to the axis of where is a function of only .
As before and Therefore the equation in becomes i. e. , therefore The current function is To obtain it directly from the preceding article , it would only have been necessary to put OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
383 10 .
Example I. Take the simplest case of the equation in given in Art .
4 , viz. , where is a constant .
It is required to examine whether can represent vortex sheets in a motion , part of which is rotational and part irrotational being constants ) .
Substituting in the equation Also To find it is necessary to solve the equation The auxiliary system of equations is One integral of which is const .
and the other const .
where for must be substituted its value .
Hence Whence Substituting for and in the dynamical equations arbitrary function of which need not be considered .
Now the equation determining which is becomes function of The integrals of the auxiliary system are const .
const .
function of Hence one value of the integral of the equation in , which may be called , is obtained by substituting for and their values , and is Whence But OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRRoTATIONALLY .
385 If now be some constant , then Choosing the constant , the right hand sides of these equations become respectively .
Therefore Putting in for and their values , it will be seen that for the of CLEBSCH'S forms of expression for components of the velocity , it is necessary to take The terms , containing only , may be omitted .
Thus if be the density of a distribution of matter of which is the potential therefore The potential of this density ( see Art .
15 ) at an internal point is This will not agree with the value of , unless cab ab The first and second equation require Hence this method wiIl not lead to a determination of the irrotational motion outside the cylinder .
It does not prove that there is no irrotational motion outside continuous with the rotational motion inside the cylinder .
Supposing HELMHOLTZ'S method applied to this case , it would be necessary to find a value of which is the potential of a distribution of matter of density inside the surface The result is that inside , and outside , where , and and are constants .
If the nstants and be properly determined , these expressions will be continuous at the surface .
Their differential coefficients are also continuous .
OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
387 Now inside the cylinder .
At the surface of the cylinder , and have the same values whether calculated from the value of inside it or outside it .
In order to have the rotational motion continuous with the irrotati.onal motion , it is necessary that all over the surface of the cylinder But these equations cannot be satisfied unless The solution may , however , be completed for a finite portion of the plane of , ?
/ outside the cylinder by means of Example III .
which follows:\mdash ; In Example III .
, put , this will make of Example IIT .
where Therefore the current function of this example is This is equivalent to the form in the abstract printed in the Proceedings .
For the motion to be possible , it must be supposed to be confined to a cylinder of finite section , appropriate surface conditions being supplied at the surface of the bounding cylinder .
11 .
Example II .
In the preceding example it was shown that none of the methods would apply for the whole of space surrounding the rotationally moving liquid .
Knowing KIRCHHOFF'S investigation of the rotatin elliptic vortex cylinder , let the form of the equation giyen in .
Art .
6 be considered , and the following simple case of it taken .
A particular integral is if of KIRCHHOFF'S " " Vorlesungen uber Mathematische Physik Zwanzigste Vorlesung ) .
Therefore is constant .
be the coordinates of the point if referred to the principal axes of the ellipse which rotates with uniform angular velocity ; the components of the velocity parallel to these moving axes .
Thus ; The velocities along and perpendicular to the radius vector are To find it is necessary to solve the equation The auxiliary system is It will be more convenient to obtain in terms of Since OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
389 therefore therefore therefore The integrals are therefore .
The current function To find First express in a form in which are independent variables .
therefore the equations become therefore oit.x ' therefore therefore arbitrary function of the time .
find The auxiliary system of equations to find is Substituting for their values , there may be substituted for these the equations One integral is Another is OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
391 To find the third , substituting for its value therefore therefore one value of satisfying the partial differential equation , which may be called is Also Whence Thus If , therefore , be put Thus the proper value to take for the of CLEBSCH'S forms is .
omitting , as unnecessary , terms containing only Calculating $ The value of the potential due to this density is the single-valued expression given in Art .
, viz. :\mdash ; Add to this the term to give the cyclic constant in KIRCHHOFF'S notation ; then , in order that what is now obtained may be the same as , it is necessary that the latter of which is known to be true , but the former will not also be true unless in KIRCHHOFF'S notation .
Up to this point no relation has been assumed between and Supposing , however , this relation satisfied , the velocity potential an external point is obtained by adding the same term to the potential found in Art .
15 for an external point .
Thus velocity potential at an external point is where is a root of equation , the axes turning round with angular velocity The expressions for the velocity , which may be deduced from this , might also have been obtained by HELMHOLTZ'S Method from the current function which is the OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROT A. 393 potential of the density throughout the cylinder , and which is iven in Example I. These values make continuous at the surface .
12 .
Example III .
Supposing the relation found in the last article between and not satisfied , it is required to find a solution if possible .
Using the elliptic coordinates satisfy the equations where Hence and putting LAPLACE'S equation becomes If V be a function of only , then .
Similarly is a solution .
But if where is a function of only , a function of only , then Suppose there exist a value of such that Then Therefore if COS When and so on .
Now suppose it , required to express as the current function of an irrotational motion under the condition that wherever Assume if possible The form of the expression on the right-hand side shows that .
it is the current function of an irrotational motion .
But therefore the assumption is If this is to be satisfied when , and therefore when , it is possible to add to either side and then equate the coefficients of .
The conOF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
395 stant A can always be chosen so as to make the absolute terms equal .
The elimination of from the two equations for in which it occurs will leave the one relation between them which must be satisfied .
Adding to the right-hand side , the conditions are . .
and an equation to determine A. The velocity parallel axis of inside ] inder The velocity parallel axis of outside cylinder From the assumed value of for space outside cylinder For the continuity of the values of \mdash ; \mdash ; at the surface , it is evident that the coefficients of must vanish .
Therefore Also These are the same whence Therefore const .
\mdash ; To examine whether this will make the value of continuous at the surface .
Inside it is known that arbitrary function of Outside \mdash ; function of where is the velocity potential .
Now as is constant , if ( be expressed as a function of is a function of then can only occur in through occurring in , y\fnof ; mD Therefore But it has already been shown that the velocities are continuous at the surface .
Therefore at the surface Therefore at the surface arbitrary functiqn of OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
397 The difference of the values of as given by the above expressions obtained from the motion inside and outside is arbitrary function of As , choosing the difference of the arbitrary functions of to be constant and equal to , the value of will be continuous at the surface .
The current fimction of the irrotational motion is Therefore the equation to a surface always containing the same particles is const .
That is , in elliptic coordinates:\mdash ; const .
Now if be chosen so as to make the coefficient of vanish , it will always be possible to choose the constant so that the equation is satisfied .
Therefore the elliptic cylinders corresponding to the values of which make the coefficient of vanish will be parts of surfaces const .
, and will therefore always contain same particles .
These values of satisfy the equation Solving this in the ordinary way , the roots obtained are It is necessary to examine whether these roots satisfy the above equation , or the equation obtained by changing the sign of the radical on the right-hand side .
If is infinite .
\mdash ; is negative .
is infinite .
is positive .
is zero .
is negative .
It the relation between and is such as to make positive , it is necessary to see whether the equation in above is satisfied .
OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLy .
399 First suppose Then and the equation in is satisfied .
Next suppose Now These values , however , do not satisfy the equation in Hence it appears that if the elliptic cylinder for which is part of one of the surfaces const .
, and therefore always contains the same particles .
Hence , if the smooth hollow rigid cylinder rotate about its axis with uruform angular velocity , such that , and it is possible that the fluid inside the geometrical surface should move rotationally , and that the flnid between the two cylinders should be moving irrotationally , the rotational and irrotational motion being continuous .
The components of the velocity of the rotational motion parallel to the axes of the sections of the cylinder by the plane of are and The components of the velocity of the irrotational motion in the same directions are i. e. , and These expressions for the velocity will not agree with those obtained by HELMHOLTZ'S Method , viz. , and , unless i.e. , in the case of Example IT .
, and the irrotational motion as obtained by Method is not continuous with the rotational motion .
The other method suggested in this paper ( in which the potential of the density is calculated ) does not lead to a result .
13 .
Example IV .
To consider the case in which the vortex sheets are coaxial circular cylinders , and the molecular rotation is a function of the distance from the axis .
This investigation will illustrate the reduction of the components of the velocity to CLEBSCH'S forms .
OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
401 In this case function of only , and .
It is supposed here that the initial line from which is measured is fixed .
Let be the radial and tangential velocities , so that satisfies the equation The auxiliary system of equations is One integral is , the other is Therefore the integrals are , The most general form of the integral will be where for and their values must be substituted .
Substituting for and in the dynamical equations To find Therefore The auxiliary system is therefore The integrals are therefore the integral of the original system is Take , To reduce the components of the velocity to CLEBSCH'S forms , it is necessary to find and so that i.e. Whence To satisfy these put in each , then since , it follows from the first of these equations that Substitute in the second equation , therefore , It is necessary that should be tant , and it will be ound that the constant may be taken as zero .
OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLy .
403 Differentiate the last equation with regard to Therefore Therefore If the rotationally-moving liquid be bounded by the cylinder , and its radius be ; then Therefore when \mdash ; A suitable value for the velocity potential at points outside the cylinder is This will make the velocity and pressure continuous at the surface of the rotationally-moving liquid .
Also the velocity at will be infinitely small .
14 .
Example V. This case is of interest , because one set of the vortex sheets , viz. , const .
, consists in part of ring-shaped surfaces .
The results only are given .
If and are positive , and the constant , then this represents ring-shaped surfaces .
The equation in of Art .
9 , includes as a special case const .
A particular integral is giving and The value of is where is an arbitrary function of The differential equation in has two independent integrals one of which is const .
and the other const .
where after the integration is performed , the value of must be substituted for it .
The differential equation in when solved will give where and are the symbols of arbitrary fimctions .
Finally , in order to express as and as is taken as Then , , above expression with the value of taken as : where and is therefore arbitrary function of The value of calculated from this is complicated .
The writer has not succeeded in applying any of the methods of this paper to complete this example .
To complete the ution it would be necessary to fi1Jd a value of the velocity potential which is continuous with all over the surface , and then to examine whether the rate of variation of is equal to the rate of variation of normal to surface .
The former part of the work is always theoretically possible , but it may happen that the latter is not .
OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLy .
405 The values of the components of the velocity found however completely solve the foHowing problem:\mdash ; A hollow , smooth , rigid surface of annular form , whose equation is const .
moves parallel , to the axis of with arbitrary velocity , to find a possible rotational motion inside it .
APPENDIX .
15 .
The density inside the elliptic inder is it is required ( on account of Examples I. , II .
, and III .
) to calculate the potential inside and outside .
( It may be noticed that although the density is very great near the axis of the elliptic cylinder , yet the total mass of matter inside the cylinder const .
however small the constant may be , vanishes .
Hence it is not singular that the potential should be finite ) .
The density varies as on every ellipse whose equation is const .
It will be well to commence by finding the potential of a cylindric shell bounded by the cylinders and where is a little , and where the density varies as The followin are suitable values for the potential inside and outside where and has to be suitably determined .
To find the volume density of the shell , let @n be the thickness of the shell , an element of normal drawn outward Also Calculating the value of at the surface , i.e. , at the surfaaee where ' being the perpendicular from the centre on the tangent to at the point Similarly at the same point .
C. therefore Also where is semi-major axis of external boundary of shel .
Hence Now consider the cylindric shell bounded by the two surfaces and The density at the point inside it is OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
407 To find the potential of the shell , put where , SS , Hence 'rherefore potential inside is and potential outside is where is given by the equation To calculate the potential of the whole cylinder , put so that Then the potential of the shell , considered above , at an external point , becomes The limits of integration for are and 1 , when integrating to find the potential of the whole cylinder at an external point .
Therefore the limits of are and that value of which satisfies the equation and which makes both and positive .
Also Therefore the potential for the whole cylinder at an external point is To find the potential at an internal point Suppose that this point lies on the elliptic cylinder Then the potential at potential of matter inside this cylinder potential of matter outside it .
The potential of the matter inside is obtained by taking the same integral as in finding the potential of the cylinder at an external point , but the limits for are now and , i. e. , to root of the equation which makes both positive , but this root is zero , since This gives i.e. , The potential of the matter outside the cylinder is the integral of - between the limits and This gives OF WHICH IS MOVING ROTATIONALLY AND PART IRROTATIONALLY .
409 erefore the potential at the internal point is cab ; Thus if the density at the point inside the elliptic cylinder be then the potential at an internal point is and the potential at an external point is where NDC(.CLXXXIV .

