On the Anomalous Dispersion of Sodium Vapour .
" Note on the Anomalous Dispersion of Sodium Vapour .
" By W. H. Julius , Professor of Physics in the University of Utrecht .
Communicated by C. Vernon Boys , F.B.S. Received February 17 , \#151 ; Read February 20 , 1902 .
The importance of the study of anomalous dispersion in gases , both for testing dispersion theories and for investigating the connection of the subject with solar physics , * has induced Professor R. W. Wood to publish a highly interesting paper on the anomalous dispersion of sodium vapour , f In most of hie experiments , Wood deals with a much denser vapour than I had studied ; this may be the reason that he believes he finds a difference between his views and mine about a point on which , in fact , we do agree .
On p. 160 , | Wood describes the spectrum of electric light that has passed through a tube containing sodium vapour of increasing density , and how in a few seconds the vapour becomes so dense that total absorption of all the light between the D-lines occurs .
Then he says : " Julius expresses the opinion that this disappearance of the light between the lines is only a result of the strong dispersion " ; and he is of a different opinion .
This , however , proves , I fear , that he really did not read my paper rightly , as he suspected might be the case ( p. 169).S Indeed , speaking of the difference in the result , obtained by Becquerel and by myself in studying the dispersion caused by a sodium flame , I suggested|| that " perhaps Becquerel 's flame contained ' more sodium than mine " ; for I felt sure , that in a sufficiently dense-vapour the absorption would extend over a broader region of the spectrum .
Some lines further , alluding to the absence , in the spectrum , of the light that is strongly deflected by anomalous dispersion and thus falls outside the spectroscope , I said : " Here , then , we have a case where the absorption spectrum of a vapour exhibits broad bands not deserving the name of absorption bands " ; and then ... .
" It would be worth while investigating in how far the anomalous dispersion can have influenced cases , in which broadening or reversal of absorption-lines have been observed .
" So it is quite clear that I did not deny the possibility of getting * W. H. Julius , " Solar Phenomena considered in connection with Anomalous Dispersion of Light , " ' Roy .
Acad. Amsterdam Proc./ vol. 2 , p. 575 ; ' Astron. Nadir./ 3672 .
f It .
W. Wood , " The Anomalous Dispersion of Sodium Vapour , " 4 Roy .
Soc. , , Proc./ vol. 69 , p. 157 .
J Loc .
cit. S Loc .
cit. , p. 169 .
|| ' Roy .
Acad. Amsterdam Proc./ p. 578 .
480 Prof. W. F. Barrett .
On Increase of Electrical broad bands by absorption .
I have never expressed the opinion , that the disappearance of the light between the D-lines in the absorption spectrum of dense sodium vapour is only a result of the strong dispersion ; but I warned against always ascribing the observed dark bands to absorption only .
Wood 's recent researches are very important as a contribution to our knowledge of dispersion in general .
For the present their bearing on the spectral phenomena exhibited by the light from the chromosphere and from sun-spots , seems not to be so direct , because , most probably , the density of the vapours is much less in the solar atmosphere than in the dispersion tubes used by Wood in his brilliant experiments .
" On the Increase of Electrical Resistivity caused by Alloying Iron with Various Elements , and the Specific Heat of those Elements .
" By W. F. Barrett , F.RS .
, Professor of Experimental Physics in the Royal College of Science for Ireland .
Received December 16 , 1901\#151 ; Read February 6 , 1902 .
In the following note I wish to draw attention to a connection which appears to exist between the electric conductivity of certain alloys of iron and the specific heats , and hence atomic masses , of the particular elements with which the iron is alloyed .
In a paper published in the 'Transactions ' of the Royal Dublin Society the electric conductivity and magnetic permeability of a very large and , I believe , unique collection of alloys of iron is given.* These alloys , it may be mentioned , have been prepared with great care by my friend , Mr. R. A. Hadfield , Managing Director of the Hecla Steel Works , Sheffield .
Of the alloys made , 110 different specimens were found homogeneous , and could be forged and rolled ; these were analysed at the Hecla works , and submitted to similar heat treatment\#151 ; all being carefully annealed under the direction of Mr. Hadfield .
The specimens were in the form of rods , of nearly circular cross-section , about one-half a centimetre in diameter and 104 cms .
long .
The conductivities were found by the potential method , a standard of pure copper being employed .
Although the determination of the mean sectional area of the specimens was made with great care , by numerous measurements of each rod with a micrometer screw , and also by means of water displacement , yet , owing to slight irregularities in the diameters of the rods , and the numerical importance of this value in * " On the Electrical Conductivity and Magnetic Permeability of " V arious Alloys of Iron , " by W. F. Barrett , F.R.S. , W. Brown , B.Sc. , and R. A. Hadfield , M.lnst .
C.E. , 'Trans .
Royal Dublin Society , ' January , 1900 .

