1887 .
] The " New Force " o/ ' J/ .
.7 .
Bromine .
Wlien the experiment with the pressure gauge is made with bromine instead of iodine , it is found that there is a considerable increase of pressure produced by the passage of the spark , but that this disappears almost as soon as the sparking , and on determining the vapour-density of the spai'ked and unsparked bromine it is found that they are identical .
It seems most probable that the difference between bromine and iodine is not that the bromine is not dissociated by the spark , but that the atoms combine very much more quickly than the iodine atoms .
The vapour-density determinations showed that bromine vapour is dissociated if it is heated for a long time at a low pressure , even though the temperature is not very high .
The results of these determinations are given in the following table :\#151 ; Pressure .
Temperature .
Density .
Remarks .
473 in 80 466 106 81 430 101 80 602 116 79 543 89 81-7 In bath for 24 hours .
315 -5 105 73 235 109 77 Sparked .
230 100 66-5 In bath for 4 hours .
165 90 77 Only a short time in bath .
390 111 70 In bath for 7 hours .
These experiments show that it takes a long time for bromine to reach a state of equilibrium , and that for the experiments on the vapour-density , the gas should be maintained at a constant temperature for some time before the experiments are made .
Experiments on chlorine and nitrogen tetroxide are also described in the paper .
II .
" On the Supposed 'New Force ' of M. J. Tliore."* By William Crookes , F.R.S. , Pres. C.S. Received May 5 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The author commences by quoting the description of some apparatus and experiments which have led M. Thore to suspect the existence of a new fox*ce inherent in the human organism .
M. Thore suspends a # ' Un Nourelle Force ?
' Par J. Thore .
Dax , 1887 .
346 Mr. W. Crookes .
On supposed [ May 26 small cylinder of ivory by a fibre of cocoon silk , forming a small pendulum , which hangs freely over the centre of a table .
The cylinder having become motionless , M. Thore brings a second cylinder , called the " pillar , " about a millimetre from the first cylinder , when the latter begins to rotate clockwise if the pillar is on the left , and counterclockwise if the pillar is on the right of the cylinder .
The observer is supposed to face the cylinder and pillar .
M. Thore says that the rotation is independent of the nature of the cylinders , of their mass , or the dimensions of the pillar ; light , heat , electricity , magnetism ' , gravity , and air currents , he says , are also inadequate to explain the phenomena .
The author has repeated M. Thore 's experiments in apparatus shown in the accompanying figure .
It consists of a glass case , A , B , C , D , E , h , 6| inches square and 7 inches high , with a rising glass window , A , B , G , H , in front and similar windows at the sides .
The top is of card , in the centre of which is a small hole .
The cylinder , I , is suspended in the middle of the case by a very fine cocoon silk fibre , 5 feet long , " New Force " of M. Thore .
surrounded by a card tube J , attached to the top of the glass box .
K is a second cylinder attached to a support , L , M , by a ball and socket joint for convenience of adjustment .
The support , M , projects outside the case to admit of the pillar being brought close to the cylinder and transposed from one side to the other , \amp ; c. N is a cord attached to the front glass window , weighted at the end and passing over a pulley for convenience of raising and lowering the glass .
Ivory , ebonite , glass , and metal have been used for the cylinders and for the pillars .
The pillars have also been made square , round , and wedge-shaped in section , and the surfaces have been bright and lamp-blacked .
The mode of experimentation is the following:\#151 ; The cylinder being at rest , the observer sits down in front of the apparatus with his face 8 inches from the cylinder and pillar , taking precautions to keep the breath as much as possible away from cylinder and pillar .
The pillar is always placed on the right of the cylinder .
On raising the front glass the cylinder commences to rotate in the opposite direction to the hands of a clock , the side nearest the observer moving to the right.* In other experiments a flask of boiling water , a candle , and a hot platinum wire have been used as the source of radiation .
The results of more than fifty experiments are given in tables , showing the material of the pillar , the maximum speed of one revolution , the number of revolutions , and the exciting agent .
Experiments tried with an ascending current'of air of different degrees of intensity in front of the apparatus prove that air currents are inoperative in producing the action .
The results leave little doubt that the action is one of radiation from the face or other warm body in front of the apparatus , and that there is nothing special in the human organism beyond the heat it radiates to produce rotation of the cylinder .
Radiant heat ( and in less degree light ) falling on the lampblacked surfaces is absorbed , and increases the surface temperature .
There are two ways in which this increase of temperature may act:\#151 ; 1 .
It may produce a current of warm air , rising in front of the surfaces of the moving body ; to replace this , cold air will come in from all sides , and striking against the delicately suspended cylinder cause it to rotate .
If , however , the source of heat is of considerable surface , such as the face or a Winchester quart bottle full of wariu water , it is difficult to imagine that there will be much tendency to rotate in one direction rather than in the other .
2 .
An increased surface temperature of the cylinder and pillar may produce an increase of molecular pressure between the two bodies , * This is called the negative direction , and when the rotation is clockwise it is called -positive .
VOL. XLll .
2 0 348 Mr- W- Crookes .
On supposed [ May 26 and thus give rise to motion , after the manner of the radiometer .
I this , as m the former case , the movement should be in the opposite * direction to what it is in reality , as it would be produced by mutual repulsion acting between the sides nearest the source of heat .
It seemed likely that information , decisive as regards one or other of these two theories , might be gained by suspending the cylinder in a glass tube attached to a Sprengel pump , and taking observations at different degrees of exhaustion .
In experiments tried by the author in .1875* the noteworthy fact was ascertained , that two bodies of different temperature attracted each other at normal atmospheric pressure ; the attraction rose as the pressure diminished , until , at a tension of 1-15 mm. , it was nearly four times what it was m dense air .
Above this exhaustion the attraction suddenly dropped and changed to repulsion , which at the best vacuum obtained was nearly thirteen times stronger than the attraction in air .
Two forms of apparatus are described by the author , wherewith experiments were tried during exhaustion , and an exact parallelism was established between the attraction or repulsion of the cylinder by a hot platinum spiral , and the positive or negative rotations of the cylinder under the influence of a warm body brought near .
The two phenomena run absolutely in parallel lines ; when there is attraction negative rotation is also produced ; when the exhaustion is such that the attraction is nil , the rotation is nil also ; when the attraction changes to repulsion the rotation changes from negative to positive ; and when the vacuum is very good , so that the repulsion between the two heated bodies is at its maximum , then also the positive rotation is the strongest .
It is impossible to resist the conclusion that the two sets of phenomena are due to the same cause , and that as air currents did not produce the attractions observed in the 18/ 5 experiments , so likewise are they equally inoperative in giving rise to the present rotations of the suspended cylinder .
If the rotation is produced by a reaction between the suspended and fixed body , it follows that were both free to move each would rotate , but in opposite directions .
To test this , another apparatus was made , having two delicately suspended cylinders , 1 mm. apart , in a glass tube capable of being exhausted .
In a table the results of twenty-two experiments are described , observations having been taken at intervals during exhaustion .
Down to 14 mm. pressure the two cylinders rotate negatively ( .
, the right hand cylinder rotates clockwise , and the left hand cylinder counter-clockwise ) .
Between 14 and 3 mm. there is no rotation , and below 3 mm. the rotation is positive , the movement at an exhaustion of 0'0495 mm. being five times as strong as it was originally .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1875 , Part IT ( pp. 528\#151 ; 532 ) .
" New Force " ofM .
J. 1887 .
] The motive force producing these rotations is , at high exhaustions , the molecular impacts between adjacent surfaces of the suspended cylinders excited by the radiation falling on them from the hot water , hot spiral , or a candle ( which is equally effective ) .
But what produces the negative rotation at ordinaiy atmospheric pressure Air currents are the obvious explanation , but there are grave reasons for believing this explanation inadequate .
In the first place actual air currents when tried do not produce the desired result .
Secondly , it is most logical to assume that as the present set of experiments are strictly parallel with those tried in 1875 , and as in each case the results at high exhaustions are due to molecular bombardment , so also must the similar results at low exhaustions be due to the same cause .
Finally , twenty-one experiments in the form of a table are described , in which an apparatus was employed , specially designed to eliminate the interfering action of air currents , and submit the molecular bombardment theory to crucial experiments .
The results are considered by the author as conclusive in favour of this explanation .
Addendum , May 24 , 1887 .
I sent M. Thore a detailed account of my experiments , asking him to favour me with any comments or remarks he might wish to make .
I have just received a long communication , partly printed and part in MS .
, in which he describes many fresh experiments , and adduces arguments to show that my dynamical explanation is not sufficient to account for more than a few of the facts he describes , and saying that he " persists in still believing that this force emanates from the observer , or else that the observer is the indispensable intermediary for its manifestation .
" The experiments are numerous and are devised with great ingenuity .
It is impossible in the space of a brief abstract to do more than refer to a few of the principal facts here brought forward .
M. Thore commences by objecting to my having experimented in an enclosed space , saying that he always operates in free air .
He thinks that enclosure may almost or quite suppress his force .
To this I can reply that I have myself verified nearly all M. Thore 's facts of rotation ( including those just now communicated ) , when working in the free air of a large room , and it was only when I found the delicacy of the observations was impeded by draughts and currents that I put screens round the apparatus .
I have not found glass screens interfere materially with any of the rotations .
M. Thore now says that it is necessary to hold the pillar or the exciting body in contact with the hand during the whole duration of the experiment .
I 2 c 2 350 Presents .
[ May 26 .
was not aware that importance was attached to this point , but I have since repeated many of my former observations , holding the pillar in the hand .
The results are certainly stronger , but the extra heat imparted to the apparatus is in my opinion sufficient to account for this .
M. Thore brings forward many new and ingeniously devised experiments to prove that heat cannot be considered the cause of the movement .
He exposes the instrument to the full sun and then brings it into a cool dark room ; he suspends it over boiling water ; he places a large block of ice between the cylinder and the observer ; he similarly interposes metallic vessels full of boiling water between the cylinder and observer ( the observer not moving from his place in front ) , and he tries the experiment in a hot chamber alternately moist and dry , without finding the regularity of the movements interfered with .
I have tried most of these , and obtained results corroborating M. Thore 's , but I have also tried the experiment of quietly bringing near to the stationary cylinder a bottle of hot water and observing the movement from a safe distance through a telescope , and I find that the hot bottle is able to effect rotation as well as the observer .
Among the curious observations mentioned by M. Thore is this :\#151 ; Placing the pillar in front of the cylinder ( between it and the observer ) , if the pillar is held with the right hand the movement is clockwise , and if the left hand is used the rotation is counter-clockwise .
The right hand is stronger in its effects than the left hand in the proportion of 2 to 1 .
M. Thore has given in addition a large number of curious and interesting observations , using two , three , and more movable cylinders and recording their movements under a great variety of circumstances .
I admit I do not see at once how all these aie to be explained on the molecular bombardment theory .
But this theory has not yet explained all the anomalous results I have recorded in my papers on " Repulsion resulting from Radiation , " although 1 believe it capable of doing so ; and I therefore think that it is not necessary to call upon a new force to explain any of M. Thore s results which radiation does not yet seem able to account for .
The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess to Thursdayr June 9th .
Presents , May 26 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Buckhurst HillEssex Field Club .
The Essex Naturalist .
No. 4 .
8vo .
Buchhurst Hill 1887 .
The Club .
Leeds \#151 ; Naturalists ' Club .
Transactions .
1886 .
8vo .
Leeds 1886 .
The Club .

