Calcium as an Absorbent of , etc. 429 mean ( true ) values ; but it would materially affect the other conclusions and especially the statement that the moist material attains to the full vapour tension of pure water when it contains a definite quantity of moisture .
Unless very strong and direct evidence were forthcoming , we could not , after our own experience , believe that the whole of each " feed " of water driven over into the space containing the flannel was uniformly distributed as hygroscopic moisture throughout that substance before the vapour pressure was measured , or that no part of the final " feeds " was left as ordinary liquid water to exert its influence .
Calcium as an Absorbent of Gases for the Production of High Vacua and Spectroscopic Research .
By Frederick Soddy , M.A. , Lecturer in Physical Chemistry in the University of Glasgow .
( Communicated by Professor J. Larmor , Sec. R.S. Received September 13 , \#151 ; Read November 15 , 1906 .
Notes added November 20 , 1906 .
) CONTENTS .
page I.\#151 ; Introductory ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
429 II.\#151 ; Historical ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
430 III .
\#151 ; Electric Furnace for Strongly Heating Reagents in Glass Vessels. .
432 IV .
\#151 ; Absorption of Gases by Calcium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
436 V.\#151 ; Behaviour of Barium and Strontium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
438 VI.\#151 ; Production of High Vacua by means of Calcium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
439 VII.\#151 ; An Induction Method of Electrically Heating Calcium in Glass Vessels ... 441 VIII.\#151 ; Practical Considerations in the Use of Calcium as an Absorbent for the Production of High Vacua ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 444 IX.\#151 ; Quantity of Argon detectable by the Spectroscope ... ... ... ... ... ... .
446 X.\#151 ; Misapprehensions regarding High Vacua ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 447 XI.\#151 ; Quantity of Pure Helium detectable by the Spectroscope ... ... ... ... 451 XII.\#151 ; Most Favourable Conditions for the Detection of Infinitesimal Quantities of Helium ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 452 I.\#151 ; Introductory .
This paper contains an account of researches carried out by the aid of an electric furnace designed to heat reagents in soft glass tubes up to temperatures far above the softening point of glass , and has special reference to the use of calcium under these conditions as a valuable absorbent of gases .
Recent work on the generation of helium from the radio-elements VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; A. 2 G Mr. .
F. Soddy .
Calcium as [ Sept. 13 , has shown the necessity for more simple , certain , and-powerful means of absorbing other gases and in particular nitrogen .
The usual practice of Sir W. Ramsay and the writer when working together was to make provision for the removal of compounds of hydrogen , oxygen , and carbon , but to take the utmost precautions against the admission of air into the apparatus in the first place .
If nitrogen was present in spite of the precautions taken , it was often possible , by gently running the spectrum-tube , to absorb it by the hot electrodes of aluminium , the lines of helium , if present , appearing as the nitrogen spectrum faded .
The difficulty in absorbing nitrogen is that the usual absorbents , for example , a mixture of lime and magnesium , only react above the softening temperature of an exhausted soft glass tube , and the present researches had their origin in an attempt to enable higher temperatures and more powerful absorbents of gases to be used within soft glass apparatus .
Lithium , it is true , absorbs nitrogen at a very low temperature , but its use introduces hydrogen .
A good exarnple of .
a very perfect train of absorbents* able to absorb all known gases with the exception of those of the " argon family , is to be found in the recent researches of Debierne* on the production of helium from radium and actinium .
" Oxygen is absorbed by heated copper ; the absorption of hydrogen is secured by the action of heated copper oxide and phosphorus pentoxide , at the same time the copper oxide transforms gaseous carbon compounds into carbon dioxide , which is absorbed by potash , and finally nitrogen is absorbed by pure lithium .
" Now such an apparatus serves but one experiment , and has to be built up afresh for each , because it is necessary to fill it after the absorption with mercury in order to compress the helium sufficiently to detect it .
The labour involved during a lengthy investigation may be imagined .
It is , therefore , very satisfactory to be able to state that I have found that a single reagent , namely , calcium , at the high temperature attainable by the use of my furnace , would serve instead of all the reagents employed by Debierne , and do the work far more effectively and rapidly .
Calcium , under the conditions mentioned , is a universal absorbent of all gases with the exception of the argon group .
' II.\#151 ; Historical .
Till recently calcium has been a very uncommon metal , while barium and strontium still belong to the category of chemical curiosities .
Maquennef found that when amalgams of these three metals were heated in nitrogen , * ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1905 , vol. 141 , p. 383 .
+ 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1892 , vol. 114 , p. 225 .
1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. 431 the mercury was volatilised and nitrides of the metals were formed .
The absorption took place at a lower temperature than in the case of the metals magnesium and aluminium .
Barium was stated to lend itself best to the experiment .
None of the alkaline-earth metals were investigated by Lord Bayleigh and Sir W. Bamsay in their examination of the known absorbents of nitrogen , * on account of the difficulties in obtaining large quantities of these metals at that time .
After the discovery of argon , Maquennef showed that a mixture of calcium oxide and magnesium rapidly absorbed the oxygen and nitrogen of the air when heated in a hard glass tube , and attributed this reaction to the production of calcium in an extremely divided state .
He states that a manometer attached to the apparatus showed a diminution of pressure from the atmospheric equal to 70 and even 73 cm .
of mercury .
This mixture is now commonly employed in the preparation of argon , and it is customary to accept Maquenne 's explanation of its absorbing power .
It is , however , quite certain that the commercial calcium in the form of compact metal bars , produced by electrolysis , behaves in a manner entirely different from the " nascent calcium , " if such it be , produced by heating a magnesium and lime mixture , for the former , heated in a tube filled with air at atmospheric pressure , produces no noticeable absorption , even at the highest temperatures .
Moissan first succeeded in preparing calcium in quantity sufficient to make an accurate study of its properties.^ His calcium was in finely divided crystalline condition , and was obtained by acting upon calcium iodide with excess of sodium .
The calcium is deposited out from the sodium on solidification , and the latter is removed by the action of absolute alcohol , which does not attack calcium .
He showed that at a dull red heat this calcium absorbs both hydrogen and nitrogen with incandescence , forming nitride and hydride respectively .
The hydride heated to the softening temperature of a Bohemian glass tube in an atmosphere of hydrogen neither absorbed nor evolved gas .
In a determination of its melting point the calcium was heated in a vacuum obtained by the use of a mercury pump .
Moissan noted the evolution of small quantities of gas which were pumped off , " but as soon as the metal became dull red hot the last traces of gas are absorbed , and the vacuum stood at 1 mm. " This inconsistency might have been due to sticktion of the mercury in the gauge , or to an error in its reading , for , as Moissan himself remarks , the last traces of gas are absorbed under these conditions .
* ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1895 , vol. 186 , p. 187 .
+ 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1895 , vol. 121 , p. 1147 .
J 'Comptes Rendus , ' 1898 , vol. 126 , p. 1757 , and vol. 127 , pp. 29 , 497 , and 584 .
Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 Calcium , electrolytically produced in the form of compact bars , free from mercury and oil , has been available for over two years , and has been the subject of much interest .
Those who have examined it must have been more struck with its apparent disinclination to react than with any exceptional reactivity .
Thus the attempts to replace the magnesium or magnesium-lime mixture by this calcium in the preparation of argon have never succeeded in my experience .
Even when heated to 1200 ' C. in an electric oven it refuses , after a very slight initial action , to absorb nitrogen .
It must be heated to a very high temperature in the blow-pipe before it ignites in the air , and then readily goes out .
In one experiment a powerful arc was caused to pass between calcium points in air without inducing combustion.* Negative results of this character could be multiplied .
Arndtf undertook a research on the melting point of commercial calcium , in which the metal was heated , as in Moissan 's experiment , in a vacuum of 1 mm. pressure to avoid chemical action .
He noticed that the calcium began to volatilise below its melting point , and that the vapour reacted energetically with the residual air , so that the pressure on the manometer sank to an unreadable value .
Absorption commenced at 700 ' C. , was rapid and accompanied by visible volatilisation at 730 ' , whereas the melting point was found to be 800 ' .
When a Pliicker spectrum-tube was included , it was found that " the nitrogen spectrum faded rapidly , while the lines of hydrogen ( from a trace of water present ) remained behind with the lines of argon .
" He found , that the vapour of magnesium did not exhibit nearly the absorptive power of calcium .
With the use of the apparatus to be described I arrived independently at , and have confirmed , the observation of Arndt on the extreme rapidity of absorption of the oxygen and nitrogen of air by the vapour of calcium .
In addition I have found that all the common gases can be absorbed equally well , although in some cases , as the above quotation from Arndt 's paper shows for hydrogen , complete absorption is not effected by simple heating alone .
III.\#151 ; Electric Furnace for Strongly Heating Reagents in Glass Vessels .
The apparatus usually employed depends upon the internal heating of the reagent by an electric resistance circuit and the protection of the glass walls * This , however , is partly due to the extraordinarily slight heating which electrodes of calcium experience when a discharge is passed through a gas between them .
Of all metals calcium heats the least , and is in this respect far superior to aluminium .
But for other difficulties it might be used to replace aluminium , ' with advantage , as the electrodes of vacuum tubes in the case of the inert gases .
A steady arc can be maintained between calcium points in air with a very small ampdrage .
+ ' Ber .
d. D. Chem. Ges .
, ' 1904 , vol. 37 , p. 4733 .
1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High , etc. by a screen of porcelain placed between it and the enclosed furnace .
It is shown to the scale of 6 inches to the foot , in section , in fig. 1 .
Figs. 2 , 3 , 4 are transverse sections on the lines x , y , z respectively .
The outer containing x\#151 ; \- \#151 ; y vessel is made out of soft glass tubing , and is in two parts , the upper B and the lower B2 , which are ground to fit together accurately at D. The lower part B2 has two mercury cups with platinum wires b2 sealed through the glass .
The upper part B widens at the shoulder d , on which rests the Mr. F. So\amp ; die .
Calcium as art Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , porcelain shield-tube K. This is slipped into the tube , which is then constricted at A and joined to a narrow piece of tubing for connecting to other apparatus .
The furnace-tube J , which carries the heating wire , slides through the ground-joint of B and passes inside the shield-tube For the upper part of its length it is grooved with an external screw thread of about 1 mm. pitch , and wound with a platinum wire of 0*25 mm. diameter .
It passes through the holes jj into the inside of the tube , and is joined to stouter pleads of nickel , copper , or platinum , or is simply doubled on itself .
The leads pass through the doubly-bored porcelain insulator 7 , which slips within the lower half of the furnace tube and the upper part of and are finally taken into the mercury cups .
The lower end of the furnace-tube rests on , and is .supported by , the upper end of B2 , and itself surrounds and supports at its upper end a porcelain test-tube L , in which the reagent to be heated is placed , at C. The whole arrangement is readily taken to pieces at the ground-joint B for recharging , cleaning , or repairs .
The end B2 usually carries between the two mercury cups a narrow tube , shown by dotted lines , to which is attached a bulb and tap , shown in fig. 5 , for th\amp ; purpose of admitting mercury into the apparatus without introducing air , and also for conveniently filling the mercury cups and other purposes .
An oil or mercury seal may surround the ground-joint , but is not necessary if it is of good workmanship .
For special work , where the possibility of leaks or the presence of vapour of grease is to be avoided , it is easy to dispense with the ground-joint D and to make the apparatus in one piece .
In this case B is made long , so that it can be repeatedly opened and sealed , and the various parts are introduced through the upper end by suitable tongs .
But these refinements are usually quite unnecessary if the ground-joint is of good workmanship , and is well lubricated , and if the leads are of sufficient conductivity not to heat the joint .
In special work , too , the mercury cups may be dispensed with and the wires continued through the glass seal if the presence of mercury vapour is to be avoided .
[ Added.\#151 ; An improved and thoroughly satisfactory method of working , applicable whether the ground-joint is used or not , is to dispense with the porcelain insulator 7 , and to bore two holes opposite each other at the lower end of the furnace-tube 7 , twisting one end of the doubled platinum heating wire through each hole , together with a length of " flexible " copper wire , and continuing the two flexibles , insulated if necessary in little glass tubes , into the cups bb , where they make good touching contact with the .
platinum , without the .
use of mercury .
In this way a mechanically strong joint with the fine heating wire is secured , the presence of mercury inside the vacuum is altogether avoided , and the formation prevented of a mercury arc between 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High , .
the two cups when a high-tension discharge is passed through the vacuum , which in the first form of apparatus constituted an occasional source of annoyance and damage .
] With this apparatus reagents may be safely heated to temperatures far above the melting point of glass without injuring the apparatus .
After nearly two years ' use of these furnaces I do not recall a single case where the heat has caused the glass to crack or break while in use , although , of course , the glass tends to get brittle and to break when being cleaned more readily after use than before .
If required for prolonged heating at high temperature , it is an advantage to blow a bulb on the tube at the hottest part of the furnace , otherwise , when the porcelain shield-tube has become heated through , the glass is apt to melt .
These shield-tubes never break .
The furnace-tubes are more fragile , but stand extremely well , while , of course , the test-tubes containing the reagents require the most frequent replacement .
Tubes made of thin iron would for many purposes have very many advantages over porcelain .
But they must be gas-tight at the lower end , for the vapour of calcium would ruin the platinum wire if it came in contact with it .
The limit of temperature attainable in this apparatus is fixed mainly by the volatility of the heating wire in the high vacuum usually maintained within the apparatus , and for this reason platinum or one of its alloys must be used .
Iron or nickel volatilise and the wire is destroyed in a few minutes .
Even with platinum the volatilisation of the metal is serious at a bright-red heat .
In addition , a certain tendency to become brittle with loss of metallic qualities , which is noticeable in ordinary platinum resistance furnaces , thermometers , and thermocouples , and which prevents their prolonged use at temperatures above 1200 ' C. , appears to be far more marked and to take place at lower temperatures in the high vacuum , rendering occasional rewindings of the furnace necessary .
The cause of this has not been fully explained .
An examination of somewhat analogous phenomena in the case of nickel has been recently made by Dr. H. C. H. Carpenter in a paper read before Section G of the British Association this year , and attributed by him to gases in the nickel.* I am inclined to connect the phenomenon in the case of platinum with the vaporisation of the metal .
If tantalum wire could be obtained , no doubt it would prove far more suitable than platinum .
Naturally , a high vacuum within the apparatus tends greatly to conserve the heat and to diminish convection , and the risk of the outer vessel melting .
In this respect the apparatus is the antithesis of the Dewar vessel for storing liquid air .
* ' Engineering , ' August 17 , 1906 , p. 222 .
436 Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept 13 , IY.\#151 ; Absorption of Gases by Calcium .
If the apparatus described , charged with a small piece of calcium , and furnished with a Pliicker spectrum-tube , is exhausted by a Fleuss pump , and the furnace heated , gases , consisting of compounds of hydrogen , carbon , and oxygen are given out by the calcium .
If connection with the pump is then shut off and the heating continued , absorption of the remaining gases , accompanied by volatilisation of the calcium , takes place , and the vacuum rises almost instantly to a point at which no discharge can be passed through the spectrum-tube .
By a non-conducting vacuum is to be understood one of greater resistance than an alternative spark gap in air of 2 to 3 cm .
, unless the length of the gap is given .
If air is introduced into the apparatus , all but argon is rapidly absorbed , and quantities up to 10 or 20 c.c. can be thus dealt with .
These experiments with air are , however , of interest from so many points of view that they will be dealt with in detail later .
In a similar way it was shown that carbon monoxide , carbon dioxide , water vapour , hydrogen , acetylene , sulphur dioxide , ammonia , and the oxides of nitrogen ( nitric oxide , with deflagration of the calcium ) are all as readily and completely absorbed as in the case of the oxygen and nitrogen of the air .
, Quantities of several cubic centimetres disappear within a minute after introduction , and the vacuum-tube becomes non-conducting .
Finally , in order to put the power of the calcium to as severe a test as possible , several successive quantities of coal gas , each of several cubic centimetres , were introduced into the apparatus after the absorption temperature had been attained .
Within a minute after each addition the spectrum-tube became non-conducting to the discharge .
Calcium thus acts as a universal absorber of chemically valent gases .
The case of hydrogen and its compounds alone calls for fuller treatment , for at too high temperature calcium hydride possesses an appreciable tension of dissociation .
The same is of course true of calcium carbonate , but this compound does not appear to be formed when only small amounts of carbon dioxide are absorbed by the calcium .
If hydrogen or its compounds are present in a gas in large quantity , the spectrum-tube , after the absorption of the other gases , shows still the hydrogen lines , and refuses to become nonconducting as long as the temperature of the furnace is maintained .
But if the heat is reduced , the non-conducting stage is reached at once .
In one experiment 1 c.c. of hydrogen was introduced , and the heat reduced .
The spectrum-tube became non-conducting in 40 seconds .
Careful experiments have shown that even after cooling an infinitesimal 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High , etc. 437 quantity of hydrogen remains unabsorbed .
Thus if , after cooling , mercury is allowed to fill the apparatus and compress the residual gas many hundred times into a tiny spectrum-tube , a very faint hydrogen spectrum can be seen , although the spectrum-tube , even after this concentration of the gas , is still of high resistance and fluoresces brilliantly under the discharge .
This residual trace will be shown to be of great value in certain experiments .
A point of very great practical importance arises out of the dissociation phenomena of calcium hydride .
Different commercial specimens of electrolytic calcium exhibit differences in their behaviour which I have traced to the presence of hydride in some specimens and not in others .
The presence of this hydride quite alters the characteristics of the absorption process , and although with sufficient experience it is possible to get good results in spite of the presence of hydride , this experience is apt to be dearly bought .
When hydrogen is present the real absorption temperature is apt to be overstepped , for instead of a non-conducting vacuum being obtained , as it should be almost instantly with a proper specimen of metal , the dissociation tension of the hydrogen is sufficient to enable the discharge to pass .
An inexperienced operator , or one accustomed only to the character of the purer metal , will , in consequence , continually increase the temperature , and the tension of the hydrogen of course increases , and may ultimately become quite measurable on a gauge .
Before it is realised that the proper temperature has been far overstepped , the metal may have melted , subsequently to crack the crucible on cooling , the platinum wire may fuse or volatilise , and even the glass envelope may soften .
Whereas , if instead of increasing the temperature the heat had been cut off , the non-conducting stage would have been reached in a few seconds .
It was noticeable that of two specimens , one excellent and the other containing hydrogen and unsuitable , the latter was by far the more malleable and could be always detected by this test after it had accidentally got mixed with the other specimen .
But this difference of properties may not have been due to the presence of the hydride .
No one would use metal containing hydride wittingly , but it is well to know that by cutting off the heat , when the spectrum of the gas becomes that of hydrogen , quite satisfactory results are attainable .
But the sacrifice of time and apparatus , destroyed by excessive temperature , was considerable before the differences between the specimens of metal were suspected , and the differences of behaviour understood .
Experiments were tried to see if calcium which had been strongly heated and allowed to cool in an atmosphere of helium and argon , respectively , re-evolved any trace of these gases when reheated in vacuo , but in each case with negative results .
438 Mr. J ? .
Soddy .
Calcium as an [ Sept. 13 .
Y.\#151 ; Behaviour of Barium and Strontium .
Tested under the same conditions , barium and strontium show very analogous behaviour to calcium .
The specimen of barium employed had been preserved under oil , and was in the form of a granular powder .
It had been prepared from the amalgam and still contained mercury .
It was given a preliminary heating in vacuo to remove oil and some of the mercury .
It commenced to absorb gases without appreciable volatilisation at a temperature notably below that required in the case of calcium .
A non-conducting vacuum was usually not obtained before the metal had been allowed to cool .
In the work with both barium and strontium the hydrocarbon spectrum , reminiscent of the argon gases , was very frequently observed^ and was !
probably due to traces of the oil in which the metals had been preserved .
This spectrum usually appeared when the metal was hot , and disappeared .
on lowering the temperature , the vacuum becoming nonconducting .
Coal gas was admitted to the heated barium to a pressure of 2 to 3 mm. , and was rapidly absorbed , and'a non-conducting vacuum obtained without difficulty .
Air introduced to about 7 mm. pressure was rapidly absorbed , except for argon , exactly as with calcium .
Barium can be heated to its absorbing temperature in a hard glass tube by a Bunsen burner , but the tube collapses and cracks on cooling .
Under similar circumstances calcium requires a blowpipe to induce volatilisation and absorption , and the tube is completely melted and flows round the calcium in the process .
Experiments with strontium were less complete on account of the difficulty of obtaining the real metal , and on account of the small quantities that had to be used .
The first sample bought as strontium proved to be potassium amalgam simply , without sufficient strontium to give a precipitate with sulphuric acid .
The metal , when it was obtained , proved to be similar in properties to barium and calcium. .
On account of the cost only a decigramme at a time could be used , and it is very probable that its behaviour , as observed , was partly due to presence of alkali metals , oil , and mercury , and that electrolytic strontium in compact form , free from these contaminations , would exhibit a behaviour even more nearly allied to calcium .
So far it has not been possible to procure this .
Absorption with the sample employed seemed to start at a slightly higher temperature than with calcium , and at a high temperature some volatilisation of the metal appeared to occur .
This was due probably-to a trace of alkali metal .
It showed to a very marked extent the phenomenon1 of not giving a good vacuum until it had been cooled down , and of showing hydrocarbon spectra very strongly , but * this behaviour might 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. not be shown by an oil-free specimen .
It seemed hardly worth while to pursue experiments with a metal at once so costly and so impure , when a commercial process has been patented for producing the metal on a scale similar to that of calcium .
But the experiments proved that , like barium and calcium , it can absorb coal gas and air , and give a non-conducting vacuum without difficulty .
* .
* '\#166 ; , \#166 ; , \#166 ; \#166 ; ' \#166 ; -- .
v ' ' 3- -3 YI.\#151 ; Production of High Vacua by Means of Calcium .
From what has been said it will be seen that the apparatus described affords a ready means of obtaining a high vacuum by the use of calcium as an absorbent .
Arndt , in the paper referred to , suggested its use in the production of high vacua , on account of the energetic action of the vapour on the residual air .
A little consideration , however , shows that since argon is not absorbed by the reagent , air must be as rigorously as possible excluded .
As is well known , the real difficulty in the production of high vacua depends not so much on the removal of all the original air , which is comparatively easily and quickly accomplished even with a pump , but on the effective removal of the gases which are condensed on the glass walls of the vessel being exhausted , and which tend to recondense in the pump when driven out of the vessel , and to introduce a kind of steady vapour pressure until they have all been removed .
The value of calcium as a means of producing the highest vacua depends on its power to absorb almost instantly the gases condensed on the glass walls as soon as the latter are expelled by heating .
It is , as stated , necessary to replace all the air in the apparatus before the absorption with calcium takes place , or the residual argon will prevent the vacuum obtained from being really good .
The importance of this is increased by the fact that articles for exhaustion have usually to be provided with a very constricted orifice , so that they can be sealed safely after the vacuum has been obtained .
As a consequence , any argon accumulating in the absorption chamber dams back the flow of absorbable gas from the vessel being exhausted , and enormously increases the time required , as the contents of the vessels have to diffuse and mix through the constricted orifice , and this process may require some minutes .
Hence , in this method of high vacua production , the customary precautions must be taken against the leakage of air , if really high vacua , as distinguished from the apparently high vacua later to be considered , are desired .
If a Fleuss pump in good order is available , and new glass apparatus which has not before been exhausted is being dealt with , it suffices to continue the pumping while the apparatus in question is heated in the usual way to expel condensed gases , and so utilise the latter to replace the residual Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , air remaining in the apparatus .
Or , if a new charge of calcium , not previously heated in a vacuum , is employed , the same displacement of the air can be readily effected by the gases given out by the calcium before it attains its absorption temperature .
In both cases the gases consist chiefly of carbon and hydrogen compounds and , being free from argon , serve well for the displacemement of the remaining air .
In other caaes , or where more certainty is desirable , the complete replacement of the air may be effected by the use of a side tube containing a mixture of potassium chlorate and manganese dioxide , which evolves oxygen on warming .
One or two small quantities of oxygen are admitted during the pumping , and the connection with the pump closed or sealed off before the calcium is brought into action .
Fig. 6 shows , in diagram , an apparatus suited for the purpose of exhausting an X-ray bulb .
C is the calcium heated by the platinum wire c within the glass vessel B. A is an X-ray tube , and is a tube containing the oxygen mixture .
The Fleuss pump is connected with E , and the spectrum-tube E is a convenience both for judging of the degree of vacuum and the character of the residual gas .
With this method , as in all methods of vacua production , the degree of , rarefaction attained is the balance between the rate of absorption or removal of the gas present , and the rate of supply of fresh gas from leaks or from condensed films , or from substances such as lubricating grease or mercury which have a vapour pressure .
Since the rate of absorption 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. is extremely rapid , good results can be obtained even under poor conditions .
Conditions have to be very bad indeed for any difficulty to be experienced in the production of a so-called " X-ray " or " non-conducting " vacuum .
But it will be shown in the sequel that these electric discharge phenomena may be produced in vacua which could not be described as high in any other sense .
With proper care the very highest vacua may be obtained by the use of calcium , as is proved by the experiment quoted in Section IY , of filling the apparatus with mercury and compressing the gaseous contents several hundred times .
Personally , in crucial experiments , I should use it preferably to any other , and in the research on the positive charge carried by the a-particle* it was the final court of appeal , by which results obtained by other methods were always retried .
VII.\#151 ; An Induction Method of Electrically Heating Calcium in Glass Vessels .
Calcium is an excellent conductor of electricity , being the fifth best if wires of equal length and diameter ( Ag , Cu , Au , Al , Ca ) , and the third best if wires of equal length and weight ( Xa , Li , Ca , Mg , K , Al ) are compared .
Its volatility , relatively low melting point and low resistance are all against the possibility of heating calcium to its absorbing temperature by conducting a current through tit .
But in the form of fairly massive discs or rings calcium may be heated to its melting point by induction through the glass walls of the containing vessel by means of alternating circuits outside the vessel .
Por instance , if a bundle of iron wires , similar to the core of an induction coil , is put through a ring turned out of a bar of calcium , and the whole placed in an exhausted glass tube , the walls of which are protected from fusion by a porcelain shield-tube in the manner before described , and a bobbin of insulated wire traversed by an alternating current of high periodicity be slipped over the glass tube , the calcium may be readily heated to its absorption and volatilisation temperature .
The arrangement is simply a step-down transformer , in which the calcium ring acts as the single short-circuited winding of the secondary , and , being of low resistance , a fraction of a volt induced in it by the magnetic flux suffices to cause the passage of a heavy current , probably of the order of a kilo-ampere , which heats it to the required high temperature .
Pig .
7 shows one arrangement for this purpose .
Pig .
8 is a transverse section on the line The iron core M is enclosed in a thin tube of Jena glass P , which is exhausted and sealed .
This tube effects the double purpose of protecting the iron from excessive heat and retaining gases given off from the iron , but can be dispensed with .
C is the * ' Nature , ' August 2 , 1906 , p. 316 .
442 Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , calcium ring , K is the porcelain shield-tube , B is the outer glass containing tube , N is the external circuit through which the inducing current is passed .
As the heat given out from the calcium is considerable and apt to injure insulating material , it is convenient to employ , instead of a bobbin of insulated wire of many turns , a Firt .
7 .
few turns of stout , bare , copper bar or tube , and to obtain the inducing current from the secondary of a step-down transformer not shown in the drawing .
Since the magnetic flux , and therefore the inducing voltage in C , varies as the square of the diameter of the core , while the resistance of G varies as the diameter , it follows that the larger the diameter of cross-section of the apparatus the easier it is to obtain the desired result .
But the induced voltage depends also on the periodicity of the inducing current , so that the latter must be the higher the smaller the apparatus employed .
The dynamo employed was specially constructed for the purpose and gave with variation of speed a periodicity from 200 to 400 cycles per second .
The drawing shows the apparatus to the scale of 6 inches to the foot .
Another form of apparatus is shown in fig. 9 , to the scale of 3 inches to the foot .
It differs from the last mainly in that the magnetic circuit , composed of the iron strips or wires M M , is closed but for the two air gaps where the glass walls of the containing vessel penetrate it .
The use of the step-down transformer is unnecessary , because the inducing bobbins , represented diagrammatically by the circuit M N M are far enough removed from the source df heat not to be damaged .
\#151 ; w -Fiff .
\lt ; 5 , 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. Fig. .M ?
' 3 , Y Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 The part within the glass containing vessel is shown to twice the scale ( 6 inches to the foot ) in fig. 10 .
Fig. 11 is a section of the same .
Figs. 12 and 13 are transverse sections in vertical and horizontal planes respectively .
Cis a disc of calcium bored with a central hole , through which passes the bundle of iron wires M M. are two porcelain crucible lids bored with central holes .
Instead of the disc of calcium shown , a disc one-third the thickness between two similar discs of copper may be employed if it is required to increase the conductivity .
Since in these induction methods of heating the heat is developed in the reagent itself , the latter is hotter than its surroundings , which is a great advantage , as far less screening of the glass walls suffices .
The temperature of the metal can be very accurately judged by the eye , and must be kept below the melting point .
A moderate red-heat just above the cherry-red stage is necessary for absorption of gases and volatilisation to occur .
For experimental work where cost is not the primary consideration , and where frequent dismantling of the apparatus is rendered necessary , the resistance-furnace method of heating is to be preferred .
But for prolonged work in which the object is simply to obtain a high vacuum , the induction method offers great advantages .
YIII.\#151 ; Some Practical Considerations in the Use of Calcium as an Absorbent for the Production of High Vacua .
There is no doubt that a low initial pressure , not exceeding a few millimetres of mercury , is as essential a condition in causing calcium to combine with gases as a high temperature .
As Arndt showed , there is a slight initial absorption below the volatilisation temperature , and this is of great practical importance .
For rapid and continuous absorption volatilisation is essential .
But in a case where the initial pressure is above that at which volatilisation occurs the slight initial action is often sufficient to lower the pressure to the extent necessary for the formation of vapour .
When this has once taken place subsequent absorption is much facilitated , for the film of volatilised metal continues , even in the cold , to absorb , although more slowly than the vapour itself .
Hence once volatilisation has taken place there is present a tendency to re-establish the condition for further vaporisation .
When , however , a mixture with an unabsorbable constituent , for example , air , is being absorbed , the accumulation of this constituent hinders the volatilisation and further absorption by the calcium .
Another factor operating in the same direction is the increased loss of heat by convection currents in the presence of a gas , tending to lower the temperature of the reagent and furnace , and to lower the resistance of the latter .
In the usual case , where 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High , etc. this resistance is small compared to the external resistance in the circuit , the fraction of the electrical energy dissipated within the furnace is also lowered , and so the temperature falls from a double cause .
If water vapour is present the action becomes extremely marked on account of the great conductivity of this vapour to heat .
The current necessary to raise the temperature in this case may be so great that , unless promptly reduced when absorption commences , the heating circuit is apt to be destroyed .
Under proper conditions of working the calcium should never be melted , although it may be volatilised completely and redeposited on the cooler part of the tube as a compact tube or ring difficult to remove by mechanical means .
Used porcelain tubes should never be exposed to the air or treated with water or dilute acids , as they readily crack under this treatment .
Immersion in concentrated hydrochloric acid usually serves to dissolve the volatilised metal without cracking the tube , but with the liberation of the spontaneously inflammable silicon hydride .
If the calcium is melted in the tube the latter usually cracks on cooling , so that for many reasons suitable iron tubes would be better than porcelain .
The narrow margin of temperature , 70 ' C. according to Arndt , between the volatilisation and melting point need , however , never be exceeded when experience has been gained and suitable metal is employed .
The presence of hydride in the metal acts so prejudicially largely because the dissociation tension of hydrogen lessens the volatilisation and reduces still further this narrow margin , so that the melting point is the more likely to be overstepped .
These conclusions as to the conditions under which calcium should be employed as an absorbent have been arrived at after over a year 's continuous use of the method .
The following experiment on the effect of vapour of grease and of a very constricted orifice between the vessel being exhausted and the absorption chamber is instructive .
An X-ray bulb was connected to the calcium absorption apparatus provided with a ground-joint .
The latter was lubricated by the well-known mixture of rubber , paraffin-wax and vaseline , employed by Sir W. Ramsay .
A spectrum-tube was provided and the apparatus exhausted by the Fleuss pump , and the connection with the latter sealed off .
The calcium was brought into action and a vacuum corresponding to an alternative spark-gap of 15 cm .
obtained in the X-ray tube .
It was then left over night in connection with the furnace , so that the vapour from the grease of the ground-joint could exert its full effect .
In the morning the vacuum was so low that there was no trace of green fluorescence in the tube .
The calcium was heated and allowed to cool .
In 40 minutes the 15-cm .
alternative spark-gap was again attained .
Then , hour by hour , the vacuum slowly deteriorated till the alternative VOL. LXXVIII.\#151 ; A. 2 H Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , spark-gap was nil and the green fluorescence disappeared .
This process of heating the calcium and leaving till the vacuum went right down was repeated day by day for a week .
It was noticed that it always took 40 minutes after heating the calcium before the 15-cm .
spark-gap was regained , and this period represented , as numerous experiments with the same tube show , the time taken by the gases to flow out of the X-ray bulb through the constricted orifice when a practically perfect vacuum existed on the other side .
It happened that the constriction was unusually and unnecessarily narrow , such as an amateur not realising the importance of it would make , but the necessity of this constriction , where the tube is ultimately to be sealed off , imposes a natural limit on the time taken for the exhaustion , however rapid a method of absorption is employed .
In this experiment the spectrum in the Pliicker tube , when the vacuum was low , was due to hydrocarbons , and nitrogen was never seen .
That there was no appreciable leak of air was also shown by the fact that even at the end of a week no lines of argon could be seen .
This shows that the deterioration of the vacuum was simply due to vapour being slowly given off from the grease used for lubrication .
A properly constructed ground-joint is wonderfully air-tight .
I may mention that in 1904 I constructed one of Strutt 's so-called radium clocks with a ground-joint similar to those employed in the furnaces .
The period of the clock is the same now as when constructed , and it has worked continuously without re-exhaustion , proving conclusively that no trace of air has leaked through the ground-joint .
Hence , in the calcium method , where the vapours of lubricants are absorbed with rapidity , as many taps , ground-joints and similar conveniences as desired may be employed without harm , provided they are well lubricated and never get heated , and that the apparatus being exhausted is sealed off as soon as the high vacuum is attained .
IX.\#151 ; Quantity of Argon Detectable by the Spectroscope .
If air is admitted to heated calcium the oxygen and nitrogen are absorbed almost instantly , and the argon and its companions in the atmosphere remain behind in a state of great purity and freedom from ordinary polyatomic gases .
In the apparatus used an arrangement of two taps for admitting known small quantities of gas was joined to the apparatus for the absorption of gases by calcium .
The space between the taps was 0T3 c.c. and the total volume of the apparatus was 123 c.c. The partial pressure of argon is 0D094 of the atmospheric , or 71 mm. Each quantity or " dose " therefore of 043 c.c. of air admitted to the apparatus corresponds to a pressure of argon of 0'0075 mm. of mercury .
The vacuum-tube employed was an ordinary Pliicker tube , with aluminium electrodes , of about 4 5 c.c. capacity .
It was found that no trace 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High , etc. 447 of the argon spectrum could be seen in the tube , and no discharge would pass through until three doses of air had been admitted and absorbed .
At this stage the group of greens and the orange line in the spectrum were faintly visible .
With four doses the red lines were visible momentarily as the nitrogen spectrum faded , and with five doses these became permanent .
After 10 doses ( 1'3 c.c. ) of air had been introduced , the whole argon spectrum was brilliant ; 4*5 c.c. were so added in small quantities and then 3 c.c. at once .
In one minute the nitrogen spectrum began to clear and T5 minutes the argon reds were visible .
In two minutes nitrogen had disappeared , and in under three minutes only argon and hydrogen were visible .
The hydrogen disappeared when the heat of the furnace was reduced and the tube , giving a perfect argon spectrum , was sealed off as a memento of the experiment .
In another experiment the volume of the apparatus was 100 c.c. , and 12 c.c. of air were admitted in one quantity after the calcium had been heated vacuo to the absorbing temperature .
This was absorbed without difficulty .
The residual argon must have exerted about 1 mm. pressure .
Yet the spectrum-tube showed brilliant green fluorescence .
A tap was opened and the argon allowed to flow into a similar volume of 100 c.c. which had previously been perfectly exhausted .
The pressure was thus reduced to about 0'5 mm. , and at this stage the spectrum-tube had a resistance equivalent to an alternative spark-gap of 5 mm. It follows from these experiments that below a pressure of 1/ 50 of a millimetre no discharge can be sent through a tube containing argon .
At this pressure the greens and orange become faintly visible , and at 1/ 25 of a millimetre the reds appear .
At 0-5 mm. the resistance of the tube is still so high that the discharge prefers to jump an air-gap 5 mm. long , while at a pressure of 1 mm. the tube is brightly fluorescent .
It was found that the substitution for the ordinary vacuum-tube of one of minimal volume with platinum electrodes did not much affect the pressure of gas at which the spectrum became visible .
With a tube of 0'3 c.c. volume , which is as small as it is convenient to employ , a quantity of argon less than 1/ 100 of a cubic millimetre , measured at normal temperature and pressure , could not be detected by the spectroscope .
This applies to the pure gas in the absence of almost every trace of the relatively far more conducting polyatomic gases .
As in the case of helium , to be considered , smaller quantities of argon could be detected in presence of hydrogen or other polyatomic gas .
X.\#151 ; Misapprehensions Regarding High Vacua .
The foregoing experiments with argon , and others of a similar character with other monatomic gases , serve to show that the characteristics of the Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , electric discharge may prove a very faulty guide to the degree of a vacuum .
The terms " X-ray vacuum , " " fluorescent vacuum , " etc. , afford , apart from the knowledge of the character of the residual gas , no indication at all of the actual pressure .
For if it happens that the residual gas is a pure monatomic gas , the fluorescent stage and even the non-conducting stage are reached at pressures within the range of the mercury barometer .
These considerations serve to connect numerous isolated facts familiar to those who have worked with high vacua .
Thus it is well known that to pump out a spectrum-tube with a mercury pump takes far less time if the gas pumped out is argon or helium than if air or hydrogen has been present .
[ Added.\#151 ; It is also well known* that in vacuum-tubes filled with inert gases great heating of the electrodes occurs , even when these are made of aluminium , accompanied with the rapid disentegration of the electrode and the volatilisation of the aluminium .
At the same time a rapid exhaustion of the supply of gas apparently takes place , the vacuum appears to rise , the tube rapidly becomes fluorescent with use , and the resistance increases to the non-conducting point at which no discharge can be passed through the tube .
In the past this has been attributed to the absorption of the gas by the electrodes and the walls on which the volatilised aluminium is deposited .
The advantages of aluminium over other metals , such as platinum , have been ascribed to a more rapid absorption in the case of the heavier metals.f Attempts to recover the gas supposed to be absorbed , by heating the apparatus , solution of the metal electrodes , etc. , have not been successful , as only a trace of the gas is recovered in this way .
The true explanation of the phenomenon is quite different , and follows simply from the experiments given in section IX for argon , and similar ones in sections XI and XII for helium .
The inert gases are not absorbed , but remain in undiminished quantity in the gaseous state in the tube , but the traces of ordinary chemically active gases always present , initially or introduced from the electrodes during the discharge , are absorbed , and the tube becomes in consequence non-conducting .
The experiments of Skinner have an important bearing on this question , and in his most recent paperj he summarises his conclusions .
When a current is passed through a vacuum-tube , entirely independently of the nature or amount of gas filling the tube , hydrogen is evolved from the cathode and absorbed by the anode at a rate initially equal to that required by Faraday 's law .
Aluminium and magnesium cathodes give out hydrogen much more freely than the denser * Compare , for example , E. C. C. Baly , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , 1903 , vol. 202 , p. 183 .
t Compare Travers , * Study of Gases , ' p. 299 .
% ' Phil. Mag. , ' November , 1906 , p. 481 .
1906 .
] Gases for the Production o f High Vacua , etc. 449 metals , but the rate of evolution from the cathode rapidly falls off as the supply of gas in the surface layers of the metal is exhausted .
If the tube is allowed a rest the initial rate is recovered .
When a continuous discharge is passed through any tube , therefore , the vacuum improves , for the rate of absorption by the anode gains on the rate of evolution from the cathode , and this should suffice to explain the well-known improvement with use in the vacuum of an X-ray tube .
According to Skinner , helium and argon are not absorbed by the electrodes , hence the rapid exhaustion or " running out " of the tube and the advantages of the aluminium electrode are to be explained only in the manner indicated .
It is intended to try , by passing a unidirectional current through a tube filled with inert gas , to what gas pressure the non-conducting stage can be pushed .
It is not a little remarkable from the theoretical point of view that helium , which conducts so much more readily than any other gas under usual conditions at high pressure , should exhibit the peculiar behaviour it does at low pressure in a state of purity .
Frequently in the work on the production of helium from radium , in conjunction with Sir William Eamsay , it was noticed when " running " a spectrum-tube to absorb nitrogen and reveal helium , if present , that , although a severe and prolonged running might be necessary to absorb the nitrogen , it always " ran out " first , and helium , however minute in quantity , showed itself , if present , as the nitrogen spectrum faded .
When , however , the nitrogen spectrum had completely faded , which it did usually with great rapidity once it commenced to weaken visibly , the helium " ran out " almost instantly , if only in minute quantity , and the tube refused to conduct the discharge .
This sharp preferential absorption , as it seemed , of the nitrogen first by the electrodes , so that , even after a quarter of an hour 's hard running , the helium would survive , instantly to disappear as soon as the nitrogen faded , always seemed to me almost providential , until , recently , the true explanation became obvious .
} The explanation is also to hand why the presence of mercury vapour affects the action of the mercury pump so little .
The vapour pressure of mercury at room temperature is between 1/ 500 and 1/ 1000 of a millimetre .
In the case of hydrogen or carbon dioxide it is probable that this pressure would be sufficient to conduct the discharge and prevent the vacuum appearing very high to the electrical test .
That " high vacua " can be obtained at all by the mercury pump is probably due to the fact that mercury vapour is monatomic .
Similar considerations apply to the vacua so readily and simply obtained by the use of charcoal cooled in liquid air according to the method now largely used in scientific investigation and first employed by Sir James Dewar.* It * 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. ' A , 1904 , vol. 74 , pp. 122\#151 ; 131 .
450 Mr. F. Soddy .
' Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , happens here also , ais in the case of the calcium method , that the unabsorbed gases are monatomic .
At liquid air temperature the helium and neon in the air remain very largely unabsorbed by charcoal .
Sir W. Ramsay* has determined in this way the proportion of these gases in the atmosphere and found 17 parts per million of the two gases together .
An earlier determination made by Dewar , f without the use of charcoal , was identical with this .
The figures obtained by Eamsay , however , are for the total gases left uncondensed by charcoal at liquid air temperature , and have a direct bearing on the present question .
Now , as Lord Blythswood and Allen J have shown , there is no difficulty in exhausting an X-ray bulb by the use of cooled charcoal from atmospheric pressure to the point at which it is difficult to force a discharge through the bulb .
Yet the pressure of the helium and neon in the bulb must be 17 millionths of the initial pressure or about 1/ 75 of a millimetre .
This result , although appearing strange by itself , is consistent with the experiment on the pressure of argon necessary to allow the discharge to pass .
When any method of measuring the amount of gas remaining in the exhausted space other than the electrical is employed , the deficiencies of the non-conducting vacuum produced by cooled charcoal , when the vessel was originally filled with air at atmospheric pressure , become at once apparent .
If , for example , the degree of vacuum obtained is measured by the rate of evaporation of liquid air in a Dewar flask , then the presence of these residual monatomic gases becomes all important .
Experiments of a quantitative character on this subject are being made by Mr. Berry S in this laboratory .
[ Added.\#151 ; Lord Blythswood and H. S. AllenJI after showing , in the first part of their paper , that an X-ray bulb could be exhausted by cooled charcoal from atmospheric pressure in one hour to " a vacuum so good that the tube had to be heated in order to allow the discharge to pass through it , " describe in the second part experiments in which the final pressures realised were measured by means of a McLeod gauge .
When the apparatus was exhausted by a Fleuss pump initially to 40 mm. , the final pressure attained was 0*0009 mm. , whereas , starting from a pressure nearly atmospheric , the final pressure attained was ten times as great .
They point out the importance of the preliminary exhaustion when an extremely high vacuum is required , owing to the presence of the less easily condensible gases , hydrogen , helium , and neon , in the air , but do not refer to the * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1905 , vol. 76 , p. 111 .
+ ' Roy .
Inst. Proc. , ' 1902 , vol. 17 , pp. 223\#151 ; 230 .
| ' Phil. Mag. , ' October , 1905 , p. 497 .
S See addendum to this paper .
|| Loc .
cit. 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. apparent inconsistency between the results with the McLeod gauge and their earlier ones with the electric discharge test .
I was present at the meeting of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow ( March 22 , 1906 ) , when Mr. Allen showed experimentally the exhaustion of an X-ray bulb from atmospheric pressure by cooled charcoal , and I was much impressed at the time with the apparent inconsistency between this result and the recent measurements of Sir W. Eamsay already cited .
The allusions in this section to the results of use of the charcoal method have reference solely to the phenomenon of the bad conducting quality of the residual inert gases that remain when air is absorbed from atmospheric pressure by use of charcoal or other methods .
The question of the degree of vacuum produced under proper conditions for obtaining the best results is , of course , entirely different .
Although the test of non-conductance , which has , so far , been relied upon too implicitly for gauging the goodness of the vacuum , * is useless , and may be actively misleading in the case of vacua obtained by the use of cooled charcoal without preliminary exhaustion by a pump , there is no doubt at all that , with suitable procedure , this method can give a very high degree of exhaustion.*]- ] XI.\#151 ; Quantity of Pure Helium Detectable by the Spectroscope .
Mixtures of known composition were made of helium and oxygen , and known quantities introduced into the calcium absorbing apparatus of known volume .
The pressure of the residual helium could thus be calculated .
In one case 0T3 c.c. of helium was made up to 104 c.c. with oxygen , so that the mixture contained 1/ 8 per cent , of helium .
Successive quantities , each of 0T3 c.c. , were introduced into the apparatus , the volume of which was 89 c.c. , including an ordinary Pliicker tube of volume 4*5 c.c. The following observations are extracted from the note-book .
The " quantities " referred to are each 0T3 c.c. of the mixture , and the test of non-conductance was an alternative spark-gap of 2*5 cm .
in air .
1st quantity.\#151 ; Glimpse of D3 for a fraction of a second as the oxygen spectrum suddenly cleared and tube became non-conducting .
2nd quantity.\#151 ; D3 clear while the tube conducted , which was but momentarily .
3rd quantity.\#151 ; D3 very pure and distinct , but tube became non-conducting .
5th quantity.\#151 ; D3 at first brighter than the mercury yellows .
6th quantity.\#151 ; D3 the brightest line at first except for the oxygen orange-red line .
* Compare also G. Claude and Ren6 J. L6vy , ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1906 , vol. 142 , p. 876 .
+ Cf .
the experiments described by Mr. Berry in the addendum to this paper .
452 Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as tin Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , 7th quantity.\#151 ; Just before the non-conducting point the general spectrum was plainly recognisable as helium .
8th quantity.\#151 ; The brighter helium red ( 6677 ) visible .
9th quantity.\#151 ; The two blues and violet seen .
10th quantity.\#151 ; -First glimpse of the peacock-green line ( 5016 ) .
Tube took four minutes before it became non-conducting .
11th quantity.-\#151 ; Eight minutes before non-conductance .
13th quantity.\#151 ; The helium spectrum was now quite good while it lasted , but the tube became non-conducting in three minutes .
The experiment was continued without much alteration up to the point at which 35 quantities had been added .
The helium spectrum was plain , and indeed brilliant , so long as the tube conducted , but always a point was reached at which the discharge refused to pass .
Diffusion was hastened by alternately heating and cooling the furnace .
At the 35th quantity the tube conducted one way of the commutator and not the other , and this was taken as the limiting value .
Later in the day and next morning the tube showed the same result .
The discharge just passed , but the spectrum was feeble .
The line D3 was clear and the peacock-green exceedingly faint .
These were the only helium lines visible .
The pressure of helium corresponding to each dose is 0*0014 mm. and to 35 doses 0*049 mm. It is thus clear that pure helium at a pressure of less than 1/ 20 mm. is non-conducting to the discharge , while far less than this can be detected in presence of other gases .
Like mercury vapour and krypton , a very small trace is visible in the spectrum of another gas .
In the above experiments the D3 line was visible plainly when only a single dose was added , so that to get the minimum quantity detectable a fresh series of experiments with more dilute mixtures was necessary .
XII.\#151 ; Most Favourable Conditions for the Detection of Infinitesimal Quantities of Helium .
Collie* states that in presence of large quantities of mercury vapour the blue helium line , 4922 , is the most delicate test for helium , and can easily be seen when none of the other helium lines are visible .
It is likely , however , that the author mistook for helium a line in the spectrum of mercury which has the wave-length 4916*4 ( Stark ) and which is prominent in the mercury vapour-lamp spectrum .
It is not often seen in the Pliieker tube , except when the latter is warm and liquid mercury is present , so that the vapour pressure of the mercury is considerable .
Collie has suggested * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1901 , vol. 71 , p. 25 .
1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. 453 for the calibration of spectroscopes a tube containing liquid mercury , helium , and hydrogen , as the spectrum consists of a large number of standard lines fairly equally distributed throughout the length of the spectrum .
In such a tube I kept the blue line in question under close observation in a good spectroscope .
With a feeble discharge , the tube cold and the mercury spectrum faint , this line was single and due to helium only .
As the strength of the discharge was increased , and the tube warmed , the mercury spectrum intensified , and a second line became visible on the more refrangible side of the helium line and distant from it roughly about as far as D3 is distant from D2 .
On still further increasing the strength of discharge the helium line disappeared entirely , and the line was again single and due to mercury only .
On diminishing the discharge and allowing the mercury vapour to recondense , the less refrangible line reappeared and grew in strength as the other faded , and finally alone remained visible .
Thus , it is clear that so far from enhancihg the strength of the helium line , 4922 , the presence of mercury serves to mask it completely even in presence of considerable quantities of helium .
This line , 4916 , is seen equally well in a tube containing mercury in which no helium has been introduced .
Under no conditions tried has the line 4922 been seen when D3 was invisible .
The latter is by far the most delicate test for the presence of helium , and becomes visible with a quantity many times less than suffices to develop any other line in the spectrum .
Some experiments with various kinds and sizes of spectrum-tube , some with aluminium and others with platinum electrodes , showed that with minimal quantities of helium at similar pressure it is slightly easier to detect the D3 line in the ordinary Pliicker tube of volume 4-5 c.c. than in a tube of minimum volume .
But the difference is not great , and is mainly due to the sodium lines from the glass being more prominent in a tiny tube masking the D3 line .
Certainly , when the object is to detect the smallest possible quantity of helium , the tube should be of as small volume as possible .
A series of experiments was tried in which quantities of helium , far smaller than those necessary to allow the discharge to pass when in the pure state , were examined in presence of hydrogen and oxygen .
A mixture containing 0'015 per cent , of helium with oxygen was prepared by the principle of successive dilutions .
Known quantities were introduced into the calcium absorption apparatus of known volume .
After the oxygen had been completely absorbed , connection between the spectrum-tube and the absorption chamber was closed , and traces of oxygen and hydrogen introduced into the gas in the spectrum-tube .
This was accomplished by heating a trace of solid potash , previously fused and freed from water , Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , in vacuo , ,or by momentarily raising to redness a spiral of platinum wire by means of a current .
It does not appear to make much difference which gas is added to conduct the discharge .
After the first momentary heating platinum gives oxygen free from hydrogen .
The potash gives hydrogen , doubtless as water vapour .
The function of this gas is merely to cause the discharge to pass .
Once established , a large part , perhaps the larger part , of the current is carried by the helium , the spectrum of which , under these conditions , appears with extraordinarily minute quantities .
With an ordinary Plucker tube and an apparatus of volume 111 c.c. after three doses , each of 0*13 c.c. of the 0'015-per-cent , mixture , D3 was but momentarily visible , and could not be again brought out by introducing oxygen or hydrogen .
With four doses D3 was faint but clear and permanent , and this may be taken as the extreme limit of visibility .
The partial pressure , due to the helium at this stage , is only 1/ 100 of that necessary to conduct the discharge when pure , being 0'0005 mm. as compared with 0'05 mm. for the case of the pure gas discussed in the last section.* If a vacuum-tube of 0*3 c.c. volume is used , it follows that a quantity of helium , 1/ 4000000 part of a cubic centimetre , measured at normal temperature and pressure , would be within the range of detection by the spectroscope .
For safety a margin of twice this quantity should be allowed , or 1/ 2000 of a cubic millimetre .
This quantity weighs 10~10 gramme , and contains-about 2 x 1013 atoms .
The delicacy of the test may be indicated by the following consideration .
It can be calculated on the assumption that the a-particle is an atom of helium , that a kilogramme of uranium nitrate would generate 1 c.c. of helium in a period of about 5000 years .
The amount of helium produced in a single day should be within the range of spectroscopic detection .
^Researches on the production of helium from uranium and thorium have been in progress for some time , and it is hoped , now that the ground is cleared , that the matter will soon be put to a definite quantitative test .
In the above experiments the actual quantity of helium used was , of course , many times the amount finally examined in the spectrum-tube .
It is easy , however , to fill the absorption chamber after cooling completely with mercury , and to compress the gas into the spectrum-tube .
In this * [ The point was raised in the discussion of the paper , how far it had been actually proved that the inert gases were not absorbed , at least in part , by the walls and electrodes .
The last experiment answers this question , for in a tube containing only one-hundredth of the quantity of helium necessary to conduct the discharge in the pure state , the helium spectrum may be brought out afresh by introducing a minute quantity of hydrogen or oxygen , which would not have been the case if the helium had been absorbed when the tube became non-conducting .
] 1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High Vacua , etc. operation the minute quantity of hydrogen left unabsorbed by the calcium is , after the compression , just of the right amount to conduct the discharge and to reveal any trace of helium without any additional arrangement .
As an example of an actual experiment , one may be taken from the note-book from an examination of the gases present in native platinum .
On the view that the scarcity of an element , after prolonged and extensive search for it , justifies the suspicion that it may be a member of a disintegration series , it was thought possible that evidence of such disintegration might appear in the presence of rare gases in platinum , as is the case with the radio-active minerals .
Messrs. Johnson and Matthey very kindly lent me as much native platinum as required , and I desire to acknowledge my indebtedness to them for their kindness .
In one experiment a quantity of about 300 grammes was heated in a porcelain tube in an electric oven to 1200 ' C. , and the gases passed into a calcium absorption chamber of the usual kind provided with a tiny spectrum-tube at the upper end .
A trace of carbon dioxide , from the walls probably , first came off .
Then nitrogen appeared , and , as the temperature approached 800 ' C. , carbon dioxide in quantity .
On closing the connection with the platinum and absorbing the gas with calcium , the spectrum-tube became quite non-conducting .
These operations were repeated , the gas evolved being admitted and absorbed in stages .
When the electric oven had reached a temperature of 1000 ' C. , a momentary glimpse of the D3 line was seen .
At 1100 ' C. the peacock-green line was picked up , and the more prominent of the two reds seen extremely faintly .
On forcing the discharge the argon greens could be faintly made out in a Eamsay pocket spectroscope .
When the oven reached 1200 ' C. , a large quantity of carbon dioxide had accumulated .
This was admitted to the absorption chamber , and the connection sealed and the heating of the platinum stopped .
On cooling the calcium after absorbing the gases , the spectrum-tube was on the verge of non-conductance , but extremely faint helium could be detected .
Mercury was admitted and the contents compressed completely into the tiny spectrum-tube .
The helium spectrum was now reasonably bright , all the lines being visible , together with the hydrogen red and the mercury lines .
With the pocket spectroscope argon could just be detected .
It was estimated from the appearance of the discharge at various stages of the compression that about 1/ 5 of a cubic millimetre of helium was present , a quantity 400 times as much as could have been detected , yet only representing 1/ 15000000 per cent , by weight of the platinum .
The experiment lasted but two hours , and is given merely as an example of the ease with which an infinitesimal quantity of helium may be separated from large amounts of other gases 456 Mr. F. Soddy .
Calcium as an Absorbent of [ Sept. 13 , by means of calcium , and its quantity estimated with fair probability .
No weight is to be put on the result as indicating the origin of the helium .
As a matter of fact , the native platinum was quite distinctly though feebly radio-active , 300 grammes of it in an electroscope producing an effect equivalent to 0-07 milligramme of uranium oxide .
Clevite usually contains about 2 c.c. of helium per gramme , and is usually of about the same activity as uranium oxide .
The platinum contained about 3,000,000 times less helium , and was about 4,000,000 times less radio-active than clevite , so that there is no reason to go further to explain the source of the helium than to suppose that a trace of some radio-element is present in native platinum .
Appendix.\#151 ; Results of Gauging High Vacua by the Evaporation Test .
By Arthuk John Berry .
In this note the results of some experiments , on the rate of evaporation of liquid air contained in a Dewar vessel exhausted in different ways , are described with the view to showing that this test may be used as a means of gauging the degree of vacuum produced by different processes .
Owing to various causes the research has not been carried as far as it was intended , but one set of measurements , complete in themselves , have been obtained , which bear out in a clear manner one of the points discussed by Mr. Soddy in the paper preceding .
Starting with a vessel filled with air at atmospheric pressure , there is no difficulty , by using the method of Sir James Dewar to produce a vacuum therein , in obtaining a vacuum apparently perfect , so far as the electric discharge test can indicate , provided that a sufficiency of charcoal is employed .
It was of interest to compare the rate of evaporation of liquid air in a Dewar vessel exhausted in this manner with the rate in the same vessel exhausted also by Dewar 's method , but in which the air had been first removed by an auxiliary pump .
Although the electrical test reveals no difference in the degree of vacuum obtained in the two methods , it is to be expected that the thermal test will show a far higher vacuum by the second method than by the first , owing to the residuum of non-conducting inert gases left by the first method.* This expectation has been fully borne out by the experiments .
The vessel employed was of about 1 litre capacity , globular in form , and silvered on the two inner walls .
During the exhaustions it was placed in an inverted position in an air oven , and the temperature maintained at * Compare Lord Blythswood and H. S. Allen , ' Phil. Mag. , ' October , 1905 , p. 497 .
1906 .
] Gases for the Production of High , etc. 457 350 ' C. A vacuum-tube served to indicate the progress of the exhaustion .
At the completion of each exhaustion it was filled with liquid air , and kept in an ice chest to keep the external temperature constant .
The vessel was weighed at regular intervals to determine the rate of evaporation of the air .
Three different methods of exhaustion , designated throughout I , II , III , were employed .
I. In the first the exhaustion was performed by the mercury pump .
A Topler pump of ordinary pattern , worked by hand , was used , and pumping was continued from four to five hours while the vessel was heated in the air oven .
The pump had a capacity of about 450 c.c. , and was provided with a phosphorus pentoxide tube and tap .
The results of two similar experiments agreed well among themselves , and in the table the second of the two , which was slightly the better , is alone included .
II .
In the second method the apparatus was exhausted from atmospheric pressure by cooled charcoal .
As in the experiments of Lord Blythswood and H. S. Allen * two separate charcoal bulbs were employed , the one with 97 grammes and the other with 70 grammes of charcoal freshly prepared from cocoanut shells .
The first bulb alone reduced the pressure from atmospheric to the fluorescent stage in 30 minutes , and was then cut out and the second bulb , brought into action .
The absorption was continued one and a-half hours further , and the vessel sealed off .
No discharge could be sent through the vacuum-tube at this stage .
III .
The same vessel was exhausted by a duplex Fleuss pump of large size , mechanically driven , and during the action of the pump the charcoal was well heated .
In this way carbon dioxide is expelled from the charcoal , and the last traces of air are swept out .
It was found in a separate experiment that little or no difference was produced in the result by the displacement of the last of the air by oxygen during pumping .
In this method only one charcoal bulb was used , which was connected direct by a glass tube without taps to the vessel being exhausted .
The connection with the pump was sealed after the removal of the air was judged complete , and the absorption by charcoal continued for two and a-half hours .
The following table shows the results of the three methods .
Weighings were taken at intervals of either 6 or 12 hours .
The first column shows the time in hours from the first weighing , and the total weight of liquid air initially present in the three experiments is indicated in the first line .
The succeeding lines indicate the amount that has evaporated in the 6- or 12-hour interval from the previous weighing :\#151 ; * Loc .
cit. 458 Calcium as an Absorbent of , etc. Hours .
I* II .
III .
0 972 grammes 954 grammes 979 grammes 12 2 x 54 *5 2x63 2 x 40 '5 18 54 62 40 24 54 60 39 36 2 x 54 *5 2x60 2x39 42 54 59 39 48 55 58 37 60 2x56 2 x 57 -5 2x37 66 56 67 37 72 57 56 37 84 2 x 58 *5 2x56 2x 37 90 58 55 38 96 59 ( 78 remaining ) 56 ( 18 remaining ) 36 108 \#151 ; 2x37 114 \#151 ; \#151 ; 38 120 \#151 ; .\#151 ; 36 132 \#151 ; \#151 ; 2x36 138 \#151 ; \#151 ; 36 144 _ 37 ( 78 remaining ) It will be seen at a glance that whereas the vacuum resulting in the second method , by cooled charcoal , but starting from atmospheric pressure , is inferior to that produced by a simple mercury pump , that obtained in the third method , by charcoal after removal of the air , is by far the best of the three .
After six days 78 grammes of liquid air out of the original kilogramme remain in the vessel .
In conclusion , I desire to take this opportunity of expressing my indebtedness to Mr. Soddy , at whose suggestion the research was undertaken , for placing the apparatus required at my disposal and for many valuable suggestions .
* The slight increase in the rate of evaporation during this experiment is due to a shortage in the supply of ice in the ice-chest .
In the other two experiments the chest was kept well filled .

