The Croonian Lecture .
On the Conversion of Pus into Granulations or New Flesh .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read November 5 , 1818 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 1 .
] The changes which pus undergoes in the formation of new flesh are so analogous to those which take place in the blood , and which were discussed in the author 's Croonian lecture of last year , that he is induced to consider the two fluids as possessed of the same properties , the colour of the globules being the principal characteristic distinction between them .
That pus is a transparent fluid , in which globules are subsequently formed , was proved by the author in 1788 ; and in July 1817 Mr. Bauer observed the same property in the serum of the blood : he saw globules forming in that fluid while he was examining it in the field of the microscope .
Human blood , sheep 's blood , and calves ' blood , presented to Sir Everard similar results ; the serum of which , when warm and fresh , was observed , in a space covering Ti.-0o-th part of an inch , to produce from six to twelve globules in a few minutes , two only being observed in the first instance .
The author , after detailing further experiments on the formation of globules in the serum of the blood , proceeds to examine the changes which happen in pus upon the surface of a sore , having previously described the appearancee of the surface immediately under the newly secreted pus .
It was made up of eminences and hollows ; the former consisting of clusters of tortuous blood-vessels , the latter filled with pus .
After a few minutes ' exposure , the following changes were observed : a transparent pellicle covered the surface , under which globules of air made their appearance in different places ; then horizontal anastomozing canals , filled with red blood , were seen to form ; and red spots , which were the termination of perpendicular canals , were observed under the pellicle .
Drawings illustrating these appearances accompany the paper .
After detailing further proofs and illustrations of the above phenomena , presented by the surfaces of sores covered with pus , Sir Everard observes , that the carbonic acid originally contained in the tubes is very readily displaced by the blood , in consequence of its disposition to absorb that particular gas which forms so large a proportion of its component parts .
He thinks that the extrication of carbonic acid is the original cause of the tubularity of pus ; and that the tubes are then filled with red blood , and thus connected with the circulation .
The succeeding changes are illustrated by Mr. Bauer 's drawing , which the author laid before the Society last year .

