\#163 ; 90 Messrs. J. H. 'Gladstone and A. Tribe on the [ Apr. \\ III .
Corrective Note by Messrs. De La Rue , Stewart , and Loewy to their Paper " On some recent Researches in Solar Physics \amp ; c. " * The erroneous date given in our paper for one of Professor Wolf 's maxima has already been corrected by us , and we give in the subjoined little Table the corrections of the few numerical data which are necessitated by the error of fixing the date of maximum at 1846*6 instead of 1848*6 .
Professor Wolf 's ratio ^ ( p. 86 ) .
Jt\gt ; Erroneous figures given previously .
Differences .
I. 1*265 ) -0*728 II .
2*615l Mean 2*093 +0*522 III .
2*400 +0*307 Corrected figures .
Differences .
1*265 ) +0*283 1*478 [ Mean 1*548 + 0*073 1-900 J +0*352 The differences derived from our own results are respectively +0*061 , \#151 ; 0*107 , and +0*047 , that is , they are still much smaller , and agree singly better with the mean , than if Professor Wolf 's ratio were adopted ; hence our conclusion is quite unaffected by this correction .
The remark made by us with reference to this maximum ( vide p. 85 ) will remain in force even with the corrected date .
We stated there that this particular maximum showed alone an appreciable difference from the dates fixed by ourselves , for it will be found that Professor Wolf 's date differs still by about f of a year from ours .
IV .
" The Action of Oxygen on Copper Nitrate in a state of tension .
" By J. H. Gladstone , Ph. D. , F.R.S. , and Alfred Tribe , P.C.S. Received March 14,1872 .
In our experiments on the action between copper and nitrate of silver in solution , we frequently noticed that the tips of the silver crystals became red , as though coated with a thin layer of metallic copper .
This apparent deposition of a positive on a more negative metal of course raised our curiosity , and led us to look closely into the circumstances under which it occurred .
We found that it took place only when the nitrate of silver was exhausted , and only on those silver crystals which remained in metallic connexion with the copper .
We found , too , that the cupreous coating formed most readily where air had the freest access , and , in fact , that it would not form at all in vessels from which oxygen was excluded , nor on those white crystals which were far below the surface oi the liquid , though they might be in immediate contact with the copper plate .
When an inverted jar was filled with nitrate-of-copper solution and silver crystals resting on branches of copper , and the liquid was displaced by oxygen gas , it was found that the tips of the crystals became red , * Suprtt , p. 82 .
1872.1 Action of Oxygen on Copper Nitrate .
the solution gradually filled the jar again by the absorption of the gas .
In the same way the oxygen was absorbed from air , or from its mixtures with hydrogen or carbonic anhydride .
This action was further studied by employing plates of the two metals instead of copper covered with silver crystals .
When the two plates , connected by a wire , were partially immersed in an ordinary aqueous solution of copper nitrate , it was found that a slight yellowish deposit made its appearance speedily all over the silver plate , and went on increasing for a day or two , while at the air-line there was a thicker deposit , which gradually grew and extended itself a little below the surface .
This deposit changed from yellowish to red , and under the microscope presented a distinctly crystalline appearance .
Thinking that this slight crust all over the silver plate was due to air dissolved in the solution itself , we took advantage of the reaction to prepare copper nitrate absolutely free from dissolved oxygen .
An ordinary solution of the salt mixed with some silver nitrate was placed in a narrow cylinder , with a long piece of copper-foil arranged somewhat spirally , so as to retain the deposited silver on its surface , and allowed to rest for twenty-four hours .
The solution thus obtained was exposed to the action of the conjoined copper and silver plates ; but even after some hours there was no dimming of the lustre of the silver plate , except at the air-line , which was sharply defined .
The same solution , shaken for some time in the air , produced a yellowish deposit on the white metal in three minutes .
The colour and general appearance of this crust , together with its formation only where oxygen can be absorbed , showed that it was not metallic copper , but the suboxide .
This was further proved by the action of dilute sulphuric acid , which resolves it at once into red metallic copper and copper sulphate .
There is also another curious reaction , which can only be properly observed under a microscope .
When treated with a solution of silver nitrate , this cupreous deposit does not give the ordinary crystals of the white metal ; in fact it is only slowly acted upon ; but presently there shoot forth thin threads of silver , which run through the liquid , often twisting at sharp angles , while the yellowish crystals change to black .
This also was found to be a property of the suboxide of copper .
This deposition of oxide on the silver is accompanied by a corresponding solution of copper from the other plate .
Thus , in an experiment made with nitrate-of-copper solution that had been exposed to air , and which was allowed to continue for four days , there was found:\#151 ; Gain of silver plate 0*016 grm. Loss of copper plate 0*015 grm. The copper necessary for the production of 0*016 grm. of suboxide would be a little above 0*014 grm. The wire connecting the two plates in this experiment is capable of deflecting a galvanometer .
The current takes place through the fluid from 292 Messrs. Scott and Galloway on the Connexion [ Apr. ig * ' ) copper to silver , that is , in the same direction as if the copper had been dissolved hy an acid and hydrogen evolved on the silver plate .
If the two plates have their sides parallel , the suhoxide is deposited not merely on that side of the silver plate which faces the copper , but after about a minute on the other side also , showing that in this , as in other cases , the lines of force curve round .
It became interesting to consider what started this electric current .
The original observations convinced us that it was not due to the action of oxygen on the copper j but , to mate the matter more certain , bright copper and silver plates in conjunction were immersedj the copper in a pure , i. e. deoxy-genized , solution of nitrate of copper , the silver in an oxygenized solution : the two liquids communicated through the diaphragm of a divided cell .
In half an hour the silver plate was covered with a reddish film , while not a trace of tarnish was perceptible on the copper .
On continuing this experiment for three hours , it was found that the copper plate lost 0*003 grm. , and the silver plate was increased by 0*004 grm. On cleaning the plates , and reversing their position , the copper was covered with a film of oxide , while the silver remained free from cupreous deposit .
We believe therefore that , through the simultaneous action of the two metals , the dissolved salt is put into such a state of tension that oxygen brings about a chemical change which otherwise would be impossible , and that this change is initiated in close proximity to the more negative metal .
Though we have examined only this particular reaction , we have satisfied ourselves that it is not an isolated fact .
Each of the elements concerned may be replaced by others : thus , the sulphate may be substituted for the nitrate of copper , or platinum may be used instead of silver ; chlorine may take the place of oxygen , with the production of the subchloride instead of the suboxide ; and zinc may be employed as the positive metal , with zinc chloride as the salt in solution , in which case copper may be taken as the negative metal , and on its surface will form a deposit of oxide of zinc .
April 18 , 1872 .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
The following communications were read:\#151 ; I. u On the Connexion between Explosions in Collieries and Weather .
' By Robert H. Scott , M.A. , F.R.S. , and William Galloway , Esq. , Mining Engineer .
Received March 19 , 1872 .
The gas commonly called ** Fire-damp , " to the mixture of which with atmospherical air the formation of the explosive mixture in coal-mines is due , exudes from the coal at a certain pressure ; so that the rate of its escape must , to some extent , depend on the pressure of the atmosphere ,

