]\gt ; [ 231 ] V. Experimental of the Velocity of TVhite of Coloured JAMES YOUNG , LL. D. , F.R.S. , and Professor G. FORBES .
Received May 17 , \mdash ; Read May 19 , 1881 .
CONTENTS .
I.\mdash ; ABSOLUTE VELOCITY 0F WHITE LIGHT .
PAGE .
Introductory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
231 Mathematical theory of our method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
233 Description of the apparatus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
240 Establishment of the apparatus at Kelly , Wemyss Bay . .
249 Measurement of the distances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
250 Translation of the chronograph records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
252 PART \mdash ; RELATIVE VELOCITY 0F LIGHTS 0F D1FFERENT CoLOUItS .
Does the velocity of light depend upon its colour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
270 Distinctive colours observed in the return light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
272 Explanation of these colours .
274 First measurements with red and white light . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
275 Differential observations 277 PART I. ABSOLUTE OF WHITE LIGHT .
Introductory .
IT is remarkable that , although the importance of an accurate knowledge of the velocity of light has been very generally appreciated , no attempt has hitherto been made in this country to measure that velocity by experiment .
Our own experiments date from many years back , but we have been preyented by various interruptions to our work from giving a result which could lay claim to the greatest accuracy .
In 1878 we made at Pitlochry , in Perthshire , between 600 and 700 observations , but the toothed wheel which was made for us not having the number of teeth in it which we had ordered , we were not able to eliminate perfectly certain unknown quantities occurring in the formulae , and we felt that it would be better to wait until we could give a result in which we had perfect confidence .
At the same time we resolved so to alter our apparatus that we should not have to depend upon the mean of a very large number of experiments to give us a good result , but that each observation should give us an accurate measurement , free from all doubt .
This has now been accomparallax , by cornbining the result with the constant of aberration determined by astronomers .
The investigation has also acquired a further interest from the lations of the late Professor CLERK MAXWELL , according to which the propagatiol. .
of light is an electro-magnetic phenomenon , and its velocity should be the same am that of the propagation of an electro-magnetic displacement .
Our researches have , however , led us to results of great importance in another direction .
We find reasons for believing that the different colours of which white light is composed do not travel with the same velocity , bub that the more refrangible rays travel more rapidly through a vacuum , and that this ence is by no means very small , so that we may expect its presence to be determined by independent tests .
The influence of this conclusion upon our views about the constitution of the ether is considerable , and will doubtless lead to some further knowledge of its properties .
The general theory of the method employed in the present research resembles that of M. FIZEAU .
In his experiments , and in those of M. CORNU , a beam of light is sent through between the teeth of a toothed wheel to a distance of some miles , whence it is reflected back again by means of certain optical arrangements , which bring it back to the same point .
If the wheel be rotating at a suitable rate , then , by the time that the light has gone to the distant station and back , the position of the space between two teeth is now occupied by a tooth and the light cannot pass .
But if the velocity of the toothed wheel be doubled that position will be occupied by the next space and the light is able to pass .
If the velocity be increased threefold , fourfold , \amp ; c. , we have alternately eclipses and full brightness .
If be the number of teeth in the wheel , it must , in the time that.light has gone to the distant station and back again , have completed of a revolution in order to bring a tooth into the position previously occupied by a space at the commencement of that time .
If the wheel be found to be making revolutions a second at the time of the first eclipse , then is the fraction of a second taken by light to perform the double journey ; and if the distance between the toothed wheel and the distant reflector be then the velocity of light is In the method which we devised , instead of having only one distant reflector , we have two , nearly in the same line , but one of them being at a greater distance than the other and a little to one side of it , Let us call the most distant reflector A and VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LTGHT .
*other one B. The light reflected from A is eclipsed with slower revolution of toothed wheel than that from ; because the number of revolutions required is , and we have But ( the distance to is greater than ( the distance to B ) ; hence ( the speed of revolution producing the first echpse with A ) is less than ( the speed of revolution producing the first eclipse of B ) .
After the light from A has been eclipsed it begins to increase in brightness , while that from is still diminishing .
In the method of the present research we determine the speed of revolution when the two lights appear to be of equal brightness .
When we proceed to the second , third , \amp ; c. , eclipses the difference in speed required to produce an eclipse in A and in increases , and it may happen that at a certa speed the light from A reaches a maximum at the time when that from is at a minimum , or vice versed .
The superiority of this method over that of M. FIZEAU seemed to be that instead of having to determine the instant at which a light disappears we have only to determine the instant at which two lights seem to be of equal brightness .
Every one who has been engaged in photometry is aware that the forner is an operation of great difficulty and doubt , whereas the latter is one of very great delicacy .
The particular way in which we deduce the velocity of light from an observation of the equality of these two lights will now be explained .
It must be especially noticed that we never have occasion to use the lights when near an eclipse , at which time , as CORNU has shown , irregularities are introduced into the formulae .
We found that a great simplification was introduced in the formulae by observing the 12th and 13th equalities ( the ratio to being that of 12 to 18 ) ; so that two observations , one at each of these equalities , sufficed to give us a value of the velocity of light .
We were also able to utilise some pairs of observations at the 18th and 14th equalities .
This method enabled us to use the electric light , which was in many ways the most convenient to us ; for we are not dependent upon the absolute brightness of the light ( which of course is liable to variations ) but only on the proportionate brightness of the two reflected stars ; and to prevent any error arising from any variation in this proportion owing to fog , \amp ; c we never used a pair of observations which were separated in time by more than a few minutes .
theory of our qnethod .
If be the width of a tooth , and be the width of the space between two teeth , and if be the brightness of the star of light seen by reflection from the distant collimator when the toothed wheel is not in position , then the brightness of that NDCCCLXXXII .
2 When the speed is increased the intensity depends upon the time taken by light go to the distant reflector and to return .
As the speed of the toothed wheel gradually increased the star of light diminishes and increases in regular phases .
If the teeth be wider than the spaces the maximum light is less than , and tho light is eclipsed not only at certain critical speeds , but also during a change of speed of rotation , which may be considerable if be greater than If the spaces be wider than the teeth the maximum light is greater than , and the light is at no speed completely the minimum light being considerable if be much less than If the teeth of the wheel be not perfectly uniform , and if some teeth are wider than others , this will alter the law according to which the intensity varies with the speed of rotation .
But , if the inequalities be not very great indeed , it is only in the neighbourhood .
of the maxima and minima that its influence is shown .
The general effect is to increase the intensity of light at the minimum and to diminish it at the maximum .
If there be no very great irregularities in the width of the teeth , then ( 1 ) the diminution of intensity of the light with a definite increase of speed in the odd phases is perfectly constant , provided that in the interval of time taken by light to perform the double journey , the advancing part of each tooth of the wheel passes beyond the advancing part of the tooth in front of it , and does not reach the following part of the tooth nor its part reach the advancing part of the tooth in front , where is any whole number from zero upwards .
Similarly , if there be no very great irregularities in the width of the teeth , then ( 2 ) the increase of intensity of the light with a definite increase of speed in the even phases is perfectly constant , provided that in the interval of time taken by light to perform the double journey the advancing part of each tooth in the wheel passes beyond the following part of the tooth in front of it , and does not reach the advancing part of that tooth .
This is in the condition where the width of a tooth is less than that of a space .
If the width of a tooth be greater than that of a space * We mean , by this notation , that if in the figure the arrow represents the direction of rotation of the toothed wheel is the advancing and the following part of that tooth , , and are the third , fourth , and fifth teeth in front of it .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
the condition is that in the same interval of time the following part of each tooth ghould pass beyond the advancing part of the tooth beyond it , but should not reach the following part of the tooth .
It is seen then that with a wheel which is carefully cut the rate of change of intensity of the with change of speed of the toothed wheel is quite constant at that part of a phase which is abont half way between the maximum and minimum brightness .
Our method of experimenting has reference to this part of a phase alone .
Let us call the period , \mdash ; From original brightness to the first extinction , the first phase ; From first extinction to next full brightness , the second phase ; From second full brightness to second extinction , the third phase ; and so on .
Let be the number of revolutions per second made by the wheel when the first central eclipse is attained .
Let be the number of teeth in the wheel .
Let be the distance from the toothed wheel to the distant reflector .
Let I be the intensity of the star of light when the number of revolutions a second made by the toothed wheel is Let V be the velocity of light .
Let be the time taken by light to perform the double journey , 1 .
In the case of a wheel with teeth of the same width as the spaces , is constant , then But if we be considering the first phase , then when ; and when Therefore and .
2 .
In the case of a wheel with any width of teeth , the value of ' the middle of an odd phase , is the same as in the last example , but the maximum intensity is .
Suppose that it is the phase which we are considering , being odd ; then but when whence : .
3 .
In the case of a wheel with any width of teeth , the value of the middle of an even phase , is the same as in the two previous examples in magnitude , but of opposite sign , and the maximum intensity is .
Suppose that it is the phase which we are considering , being even ; then but when whence and If we have two distant reflectors , A and , nearly in the same line , but at different distances and , and having consequently different speeds and , and different intrinsic brightnesses and .
Then , if be greater than is less than , and we shall have of brightness of A and at different speeds .
The first equality is in the first phase of and the second of A. The second equality is in the second phase of and the third of , and so on .
The equality is in the phase of and the of , provided that is less than .
We need not consider any other case .
4 .
Let us consider the case of the equality when is even .
Here is increasing , A is decreasing .
We have then , and are taking account of the possibility of being different for A and B. But in practice this ncver the ca , se .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
237 If this becomes If and were known we could determine the values of and fr.om this equation when the velocity giving equality of brightness had been determined , and when the distances and were known .
But these quantities , , and , are not known .
5 .
Let us now consider the equality , when has the same value as before .
Here is decreasing , A is increasing .
We have ; or Since still , this becomes 6 .
From these two measurements , viz of and , we can determine and in special circumstances .
Let .
Then we have two equations Subtracting , we have If now the distances and have been cal.efully chosen so as to make this equation becomes and From this we can deduce the velocity of light .
For and also whence 7 .
If , however , be not quite exactly equal to , let our equation becomes and and By employing the first term alone , in this last factor , we obtain an approximate value of which enables us to calculate the value of on the supposition that ( which is always very closely arranged so in practice ) .
Thus we find the value of the small correction involved in the second term .
The third term can always be neglected in our experiments .
8 .
To find the approximate value of under these circumstances , we have now the two first equations in S6 , reduced to and Adding these we have and also VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
The smallness of the correction due to the term in our experiments can be seen by examining the details of the observations .
In our experiments almost exactly .
Most of our measurements were made with the 12th equality .
Some however were made with the lSth equality .
We will now examine the formula this case .
9 .
Let us consider the case of the equality , .
having the same value as before .
Here is increasing , A is decreasing .
We have or Since still , this becomes But at the equality subtractin we have If now and be so related that , this equation becomes and If however ' the true value of is .
approximate to the value of on the assumption that we notice that the above equations reduce to adding these we have and also Thus .
when the 1 .
and 14th equalities are used .
Description of the The optical arrangements devised by M. FIZEAU were admirably suited to the purpose , and were adopted , with modifications , by M. CORNU .
The telescope of emission , which is also the observing telescope , is pointed towards the distant stations .
At its focus is placed the revolving toothed wheel ; between that and the eye-piece is a diagonally-inclined piece of unsilvered glass .
The reflector designed by FlZEAU for the distant station may be called a reflecting collimator ; it consists of a telescope pointing towards the observing telescope , but , instead of having an eyepiece , it has in its principal focus a silver reflector .
The advantages of this arrangement are its extreme simplicity and the facility of directing it\mdash ; great accuracy of adjustment being unnecessary .
The rays of light coming from the sun , or any source of light , concentrated by means of a lens to throw an image of the source of light , after reflection at the diagonal mirror , upon the edge of the toothed wheel .
If a tooth be not in the way these rays spread out and fill the object-glass , whence they proceed to the distant reflecting collimator , where they arrive all nearly parallel in direction .
There they are caused by the object-glass to throw upon the focal mirror a luminous image of the object-glass of the observing telescope .
The rays are then reflected to the object-glass , whence they proceed to the observing telescope and produce at its focus an image of the object-glass of the reflecting collimator .
If no tooth be in the way , * In the experiments of 1880-81 we always used the electric light , VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
241 the rays proceed onwards through the eye-piece to the eye of the observer , who sees an illuminated image of the distant object-glass , which from its small size looks like a star of light .
If now the toothed revolves very slowly he sees the star eclipsed at intervals by the teeth ; but if it be revolving so that at least ten teeth pass in a second , then , owing to the persistence of visual impressions he sees the star as a continuous ight upon a brightish field produced by the illuminated rotating teeth .
If the speed be further increased the brightness of the star diminishes owing to the light which passed between two teeth in leaving the observing station being partially stopped on its return by the advance of a tooth towards that space .
So with increasing speed he sees the star disappear , then re-appear , attain its ful ] brightness , diminish , disappear , reappear , \amp ; c. , passing through similar with perfect regularity .
One thing more is requixed either in the method of M. FIZEAU or our own , and that is to have the means of determining at any instant the velocity of rotation of the toothed wheel .
CORNU was the first to attempt to do this with accuracy : he connected the mechanism of the toothed wheel electrically with a chronograph so as to make a mark every 100 revolutions of the toothed wheel .
A clock at the same time marked seconds , and by of a vibrating spring tenths of a second were marked ; while a fourth marker was under the control of the observer , who signalled the instant when he wished the velocity to be determined .
CORNU did not attempt to maintain a uniform speed of revolution in the toothed wheel , but was able by means of the chronographic record to tell the velocity and rate of change of velocity at definite times , and hence , by interpolation , the exact velocity at any instant .
The plan of the present research was arranged in 1872 , but it was not until 1875 that the apparatus was made .
Since then the apparatus has been partially modified in order to overcome the optical and mechanical difficulties which arose in the course of the work .
The most important pieces were\mdash ; ( l ) the telescope , ( 2 ) the reflectors , ( 3 ) the revolving toothed wheel , ( 4 ) the clock , ( 5 ) the chronograph , ( 6 ) the dynamoelectric machine , and ( 7 ) the lamp .
1 .
The telescope.\mdash ; This consists of a 5-inch achromatic object-glass of good quality , with a focal length of 7 feet .
A BOHNENBERGER'S eye-piece is employed , consisting of an erecting eyepiece with a piece of plain glass in front of the field lens and inclined to the axis of the telescope at an angle of .
A lateral hole in the tube of the eye-piece allows the light from a !
, \amp ; c. , at the side , to be reflected by this diagonal mirror along the axis of the ] escope , and thence to the reflectors .
The adapter , which connects the eye-piece with the body of the telescope , is a tube whose lower half is cut away so as to allow the revolving mechanism to be placed below in such a way as to bring the upper of the revolving toothed wheel into the axis of the telescope and exactly in its focus .
The light from a lamp or from the sun can be concentrated by a lens so as to throw its image upon the top of the toothed wheel .
By looking along the axis of the telescope , from the object-glass , an observer can notice whether any of the light falls upon the inner sides of the telescope , and in this manner of an inch apart , on the teeth of the wheel , Various optical difficulties presented themselves , and the arrangements were altere4 at various times .
These chiefly consisted in illumination of the field of view , and successively removed .
Four improvements specially deserve notice:\mdash ; 1 .
A general and intense illumination of the whole field was soon traced to a reflection from the centre of the object-glass .
To obviate this a circle of black velvet about one inch in diameter was fastened to the centre of the object-glass on the This was quite successful .
2 .
In using powerful lights an intense blaze was reflected from the toothed wheel , which made delicate observations impossible .
We first tried smoking the toothed wheel , but not only did it still reflect a good deal of light but the regularity of form of the teeth was impaired ; finally we used a highly-polished toothed wheel slightly bevelled , and by tilting the revolving mechanism the light was reflected to the upper parts of the interior of the adapter , which being blackened absorbed the light .
arrangement succeeded admirably , but some experiments were also made with the smoked wheel .
3 .
The field still had some general illuminat , ion owing to reflection from grains of dust , or scratches , or other imperfections in the plane-glass diagonal reflector .
We objected to the glass reflector also for another reason : at an angle of a double of glass reflects only of the incident light ; on the return of the light from the distant reflector of this quantity passes through to the eye of the observer .
The whole light obtained from this arrangement is then ] ; but if we could have an arrangement to reflect of the light , so that on its return we should of the light , we should nearly double the intensity .
We accomplished this by substituting for the diagonal glass reflector a silvered reflector with oval hole whose projection on a plane perpendicular to the axis of the telescope is a circle , and whose dimensions are such as to allow one-half of the light to pass through .
The diagonal reflector is three inches from the toothed wheel .
This arrangement certainly doubled the light , and owing to the darkness of the field its superiority over the glass reflector was enormous .
4 .
To prevent the slight illumination still remaining on the toothed wheel from causing inconvenience to the observer , a strip of metal with a series of holes of varying size was sometimes placed in the secondary focus of the eye-piece .
It ] be easily removed and replaced , so that when everything was prepared without its aid this diaphragm was inserted , using so small a hole as to show only the distant reflectors and two teeth of the wheel .
The toothed wheel .
\mdash ; In contriving the revolving toothed wheel and the mechanism * The term " " the toothed wheel\ldquo ; applies in this description to that toothed wheel in the mechanism between the teeth of which the light is made to pass .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT which gives it motion ; considerable forethought is necessary .
It must reyolve at a very great speed , and must be capable of going at least for some mlnutes eo as to avoid the necessity of continually winding it up .
Our apparatus was contructed by Messrs. E. DENT and Co. It is mounted upon three screws , which .
rest in three holes countersunk in a plate of iron , whi.ch latter has an oblong hole it to admit the passage of the catgut supporting the weight .
This base plate of iron is , ss before stated , generally slightly inclined by resting on a wedge , so that the ht striking the toothed wheel is reflected upwards .
Each el works into a so as to multiply the velocity tenfold .
These wheels and are on five separate arbors , so that the multiplication is altogether 10,000-fold .
On the first arbor the drum , 3 inches in diameter , is fixed .
To the second a clrcular disc with a 1nilled edge is attached .
This enables the observer to increase or diminish the velocity of the wheel by a touch of the hand .
It also enables him to reduce .
the velocity before putting on the brake , a sudden application of which might lnJure the mechanlsm .
On the third arbor there is a cam which makes contact between two platinum points supported by two springs once in a revolution revolutions of the toothed wheel ) , by means of which a current of electricity is transnlltted to the chronograp hrono ra On the fourth arbor there is a brake consisting of a light disc of metal caught between two springs .
To release this brake a handle or key behind the mechanism is turned through a right angle .
This separates the spl.ings and the brake ceases to act .
The fifth arbor supports the toothed wheel , which is inch in diameter , contains 400 teeth cut to a depth of of an inch .
The wheel is bevelled so as to reflect the light away from the observer 's eye .
Teeth of different shapes were tried , but the best was found to be that of saw teeth ( i.e. , with pointed teeth and pointed spaces ) .
The width of the teeth could then be varied by raising or lowering the mechanism by means of the foot screws .
In the same way the toothed wheel could be brought exactly into the focus of the telescope .
Wheels with numbers of teeth were also tried , and that one with 400 teeth was chosen as the best results .
The reflectors.\mdash ; The two reflecting collimators are of identical construction .
Those which we found to be most suitable were a pair constructed by Messrs. TROUGHTON and SIMMS .
They are supplied with achromatic object-glasses of 3 inches diameter and 3 feet focus .
At the other end of the tube a cap is screwed on , and to the centre of this cap a circular silver mirror is attached by three screws which admit of adjustment .
This mirror is glound to a spherical form , the radius of the sphere being 3 feet , and the centre of the sphere of which it is a part being the centre of the object glass .
Other collimators were tried , in which the object-glasses were replaced by 9-inch silvered glass of parabolic form .
pair constructed by a maker who makes a speciality of such reflectors for telescopes ; but the whole wor manship was so disgracefully bad in every part , eyery concelvable fault belng oun found in it , and every known deyice for patching up and concealing bad work having been resorted to , that in the form supplied to us they were absolutely useless .
They were one put in its place .
This one is similar to it in every way except that the replaced by a piece of ground-glass whose surface has the same position with respect to the cap that the mirror has in the other one .
The image of a star or the sun om be thrown upon the ground-glass and focussed .
The number of turns and parts of a turn of the screw of the cap are then counted , and the } ) with mirror is now screwed on to the same position .
A final adjustment can be made with the collimators in position , altering the focus until an observer at the telescope sees the reflected light most distinctly .
( 2 .
) The adjustment which we call centering is accomplished by the three screws which attach the mirror to the cap , and causes the centre of the sphere of which the mirror forms a part to be at the centre of the object-glass .
To test this point a tube 1 foot long is put on the collimator projecting in front of the object-glass .
At the end of this tube a small ring is supported in the centre by three strips of metal .
On locking through this ring the observer ought to see an image of his eye , and the screws are adjusted until this is the case .
( 3 .
) To direct the collimators so that their axes should point to the observing telescope it was found most convenient to look through the object-glass at the mirror .
If the head be so far as possible prevented from covering the object-glass an image of distant objects is seen in the mirror , and the direction is changed until the light coming from the observing telescope is seen in the centre of the mirror .
The clock.\mdash ; The clock was constructed by Messrs. E. DENT and Co. specially for this research .
It is driven by a weight attached to an endless chain passing oyer the drum .
On the arbor of the drum , and connected with it by a toothed wheel and ratchet , is a wheel of 100 teeth working into a pinion of 10 teeth , which is on the same arbor as the scape wheel .
This arbor bears a hand which marks seconds , and the arbour of the large wheel bears a hand which marks the minutes from 1 to 10 .
Any additional wheelwork was unnecessary for our purpose and would only tend to introduce errors .
There is a dead-beat escapement , and the pendulum rod is made of varnished wood .
The bob weighs 6 lbs. , and the driving weight only 4 ozs .
, or one- twenty-fourth of the weight of the bob .
The clock is best wound up by unhooking the weight from the endless chain aftel having hooked on another higher up .
It goes without attention for two hours .
The arbor of the scape wheel bears another similar one , with 120 teeth , for making electrical contact once a second , by which means a mark shall be made on the chronograph .
The system of electrical contacts adopted by us seemed to be free from the defects of those which tend to disturb the pendulum , because the springs whose VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
ntact sends the electric current are moved during the drop of the scape wheel from one pallet to the other .
In the figure ( fig. 1 ) a tooth has just passed from the impulse face of the pallet now falls through the angle on to the dead face of the pallet this the tooth of the smaller wheel mounted on the same axis Fig. 1 .
the scape wheel moves the contact spring against the contact spring , and the current passes .
point agate , points contact platinum .
It will be seen that when the tooth goes on to give impulse to the pallet through the angle the tooth has allowed the springs to separate and it passes through its angle undisturbed .
The motion of the tooth can be easily traced the drawing .
Careful workmanship was required to carry out this plan , as the angles ought to be made smaller than in the drawing .
The result has been very successful .
Nevertheless , although this arrangement seems admirably adapted for not interfering with the regularity of the pendulum 's vibration , we considered that it was not perfectly satisfactory for our purpose .
For the length of a secvnd marked by it 011 the chronograph would depend upon the exact form and size of the teeth in the auxiliary wheel .
Consequently , we extemporised a contact free from this defect .
hole of the same size as the arbor of the crutch was bored in a piece of cork , and wheel is here drawn smaller for clearness of description .
It is really of the same size .
means of a very fine copper wire .
This arrangement was very perfect .
The .\mdash ; In all the experiments previous to 1880 we used one of tho ingenious portable chronographs constructed by M. HYPP , of Neuchatel .
In this instrument a strip of paper is run off from a drum , and upon it the signals from the clock and wheel are inscribed by two siphon pens .
Uniformity of motion is given by the mechanism of the chronograph giving motion to a spur wheel against which the end of a spring presses .
This spring permits one , two , \amp ; c. , teeth of the wheel to pass in the course of a single vibration , the number allowed to pass being under control of the experimenter .
A large number of observations were made with this apparatua But we came to the decided opinion that while it is admirably adapted for observatory work where a greater accuracy than second is not required , yet in order to get the most perfect possible results a different class of instrument must be employed .
Consequently we designed a new chronograph , which was constructed for us by Messrs. ELLIOTT Brothers .
The principle of this apparatus is that we depend for uniformity of motion on the inertia of the apparatus .
It was our object to get rid of all clockwork , and by making use of a fly-wheel , which has no work to do , to get rid of a host of irregularities which affect ( it may be in a very slight degree ) all other chronographs .
The base of the instrument consists of two strong triangular castings bound together in a horizontal position by three brass pillars .
Between these triangles a fly-wheel , 12 inches in diameter , rotates on a vertical axis .
The lower end of this axis is a hard steel socket which rests upon the point of a strong screw working in the centre of the lower triangle and firmly fixed there by means of a nut .
The lower triangle is supported upon three feet adjustable for levelling by screws .
To the upper triangle two vertical brass pillars , 16 inches long , are fixed .
They are connected at the top by a cross piece of iron , in the middle of which a thick pin works vertically with a screw motion , and it can be fixed by a nut .
The lower end of this pin terminates in a point , supporting the hard steel socket at the upper part of the axis of the registering cylinder .
This cylinder is of brass .
It inches long and 4 inches diameter .
Its projects an inch at each end .
The upper end , as before said , rests against the point of the upper screw .
The lower end is , during an observation , firmly fixed to the axis of the fly-wheel by means of a solid brass tube closely fitting these two axes , with six screw nails to ensure rigidity .
Round the upper end of the axis a silk thread is wound which , passing over a pulley mounted on friction wheels , carries a small weight .
The axis of the cylinder is made vertical by the levelling screws , a spirit-level being placed on the top of the cylinder VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
observed in different positions of the fly-wheel .
Thus we have a rigid mass rotating about a vertical axis with no cause for irregular motion except the acceleration produced by the weight and a slight friction , which combine to produce an accelerating or retarding force which may be regarded as constant .
Two cylinders , exactly similar , were employed , and these could be interchanged .
The brass cylinders were covered with a thin layer of smoke from a paraffin lamp .
The marks made by the currents of from the clock and wheel respectively , were produced by two aluminium points attached to two springs , which were attracted by the poles of two electro-maguets in the circuits of the clock and wheel respectively .
Thus , while the pens are in contact with the cylinder if there be no currents passing , and the fly-wheel be rotated , two circles are traced upon the cylinder .
The electro-magnets are mounted on a stand which slides up and down one of the vertical brass pillars by means of a rack and pinion .
Thus the assistant can , by turning the pinion , convert the two circular marks into spirals .
We judged that it was much better to make an assistant perform this work than to use up the energy of the fly-wheel in the same way , as is often done in chronographs .
Moreover , he turns the pinion only while an observation is being recorded , and not in every case when the fly-wheel is rotating , thus a great saving in the space on the cylinder .
The electro-magnets are not fixed rigidly to this support which moves up and on the vertical column .
They are attached to it by a vertical axis about which they have a small motion .
Thus we are able to keep the pens in contact with the cylinder , or not , as we please .
Ordinarily the pens are kept away from the by a light spring .
By sending a current of electricity through a third electro-magnet , the pens are brought into contact with the cylinder .
This current is sent by the observer by means of a contact maker , a few seconds before making an observation .
When the assistant sees this he moves the pinion so as to cause the pens to describe a spiral , and the observer , at the instant of an observation , breaks and makes contact rapidly .
This leaves a break on the smoked cylinder for about one-eighth of a second , the beginning of the break indicating the time of the observation .
When it is desired to read off the records of observations the cylinder is first taken off , and the collar which connected it rigidly to the fly-wheel removed .
A ring , to which an arm carrying a vernier is attached , is now screwed to the centre of the upper triangle , and forms a bearing in which the axis of the fly-wheel can work .
This part of the axis is conical , having the smallest diameter above .
On this conical pivot a conical collar , which carries a 5-inch divided circle , is jammed .
The cylinder is replaced with the lower end of its axis resting on the pointed upper end of the axis of the fly-wheel .
It is prevented from rotating independently of the fly-wheel by an upright piece of metal and an upright spring , which are attached to the divided circle , and which catch between them one of four radial arms at the base of the cylinder .
It has been stated that one of the vertical pillars carries the pens or styles .
The other pillar bears an arlll to which is attached a microscope with cross wires .
The position of the cylinder is then read off by the vernier .
The circle divided into 500 equal parts , and by aid of the vernier we can read to one-twentieth part of one of these divisions , i.e. , to of a revolution .
We found it best ir practice to rotate the apparatus at the rate of about one revolution a second .
Hence one division of the vernier corresponds to about of a second .
The perfect working of the chronograph depends upon a number of conditions which must all be fulfilled simultaneously .
They are dependent ( 1 ) upon the manufacture of the instrument , ( 2 ) upon the mechanical adjustments , and ( 3 ) upon the electrical adjustments .
The two last alone can be improved by the observer .
The principal objects to be sought after in the manufacture of the instrument are absence of friction , rigidity , and the reduction of the moment of the momentum of the fly-wheel and cylinder together about their axis to zero .
The mechanical adjustments are as follows : vertical position of the axis of the instrument must be carefully tested by a level .
The points of support must be oiled .
The screws connecting the cylinder to the fly-wheel must be quite tight .
The pressure of the upper point of support upon the axis must be very nicely adjusted .
This point of support must be kept rigidly in position by the nut .
The electrical adjustments are as follows : batteries and magnets must be in good working order .
The pens must move freely and over a suitable range , and they must press with a suitable pressure upon the smoked cylinder .
The -electric machine.\mdash ; The electric current to work our electric lamp was obtained from a small sized SIEMENS ' dynamo-electric machine requiring three horse-power and rotating at the rate of 1,400 turns a minute .
The axis of the machine is attached directly to a turbine of that kind known by name of a vortex turbine .
This was fed by a supply of water with a head of 300 feet from a distance of about a mile , and led to the house by a 3-inch water pipe .
The current was led by means of stout wires from the generator to the lamp , a distance of about 100 feet .
No further account of this machine is necessary , as our practice only , and llot our results , could be affected by any imperfections .
source of light.\mdash ; We ] oyed for our source of light , in the experiments of 1880-81 , a SIEMENS ' electric lamp .
A condensing lens was used to throw an image of the incandescent carbon , after reflection by the diagonal reflector , upon the toothed wheel .
Since with this lamp motion is given to only one of the carbon points it was necessary to mount the condensing lens upon a framework which should admit of it6 having an up and down movement .
For the same reason the diagonal reflector in the eye-piece of the telescope was turned round about the axis of the telescope at each *Tho maker did quite fully carry out our ideas on the two last of these points , The rigidity of the apparntus would have been increased by having three vertical pillars in place of two .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
249 *ervation so as to send a maximum quantity of light along the axis to the distant yeflectors .
In some of our later experinuents we used a bisulphide of carbon bottleprism to send particular colours to the distant reflector .
This prism was laid upon a ledge on the support of the condensing lens and immediately it .
With a little care a very pure spectrum could thus be formed .
blishment of the at Kelly , Wemyss Bay .
The room in Kelly House ( the property of Dr. YOUNG ) which was used for the observatory was the billiard room , facing the front of the house ( the west ) .
It is the room immediately to the north of the entrance hall or lobby .
A pane of glass was removed from the window for observation .
On the window-sill a brass plate has been fixed , with an inscription , indicating the exact relative position of the toothed wheel .
The telescope was mounted upon two strong wooden supports .
The toothed wheel mechanism rested upon two very solid beams ( between which the cord for the weights could pass ) .
These beams rested at one end upon a standard fixed to the wall of the room , and at the other end upon a strong box which rested on the billiard table .
This was also supported by a standard ; and the floor was strengthened by thick wooden props below .
The horizontal beams also acted as a support for the framework bearing the condensing lens and prism .
The electric lamp was on a separate table .
At one end of the beams and at the observer 's right hand mercury cups were placed , with metallic contact pieces , by means of which the batteries could be put out of action when not required .
LECLANCnE cells were used for the chronograph connexions .
Twelve cells were used in all .
The clock was attached to the wall of the room facing the observer .
The levelling screws of the chronograph rested upon three meta ] plates on a piece of wood on the billiard table .
We have inserted a brass plate in the stone outside the window , with an arrow pointing towards the position occupied by the toothed wheel , the distance from the point being 106 inches .
blishment of the reflecting collirnators.\mdash ; The reflecting collimators are placed on the hills behind the village of Innellan , separated from the observing telescope by the Firth of Clyde .
The nearest one ( B ) is on the summit of the hill called the It rests upon two iron which are imbedded in the solid rock .
The reflector was 8 inches further from Kelly ( i.e. , more to the west ) than the most westerly of these two Y 's , whose positions will always be marked by the holes .
The collimator was covered by a wooden box with a hole in the east side .
This box was attached to four iron rods placed in holes in the rock .
The more distant reflector ( A ) is in the face of the hill to the west of the Tom , nearly in the same line as a line drawn from Kelly to the top of the Tom , but two feet to the north of this line .
It was impossible to gain a solid foundation , but the * Kelly House and the Tom are both shown on the Ordnance Survey Maps .
The reflector A was frequently shifted in direction ( not in position ) by unsatisfactory condition of the soil .
This was especially the case during the severi frost of the winter , and on the occasion of the subsequent thaw .
It was covered by wooden box , open to the east .
The teflector A was not interfered with by any inquisitive persons .
But the box covering was once broken open at the west end , and the centreing screne abstracted , doubtless with the aim of obtaining a view of Kelly House what was supposed to be a powelful telescope .
We made some sketches , and took some photographs of the apparatus , from which the accompanying plates have been prepared .
[ Note.\mdash ; It has been decided that the descriptions of the apparatus are sufficiently clear , and that it is unnecessary to supplement them by the plates to which alusion is here made .
] The general arrangement of our apparatus gave us considerable satisfaction .
We could have wished , however , to have had a chronograph of the same kind , but more convenient in use in some ways , with greater rigidity , and with a smaller moment of momentum about the axis .
The mechanism of the toothed wheel might perhaps be constructed so as to give a greater velocity than we were able to obtain .
If a better climate were experienced considerable advantage would be gained , and the telescope and reflectors might then be increased in size , and the distances lengthened .
surement of the distances between the toothed wheel and the reflecting collimators .
These measurements were made with the ordnance survey 20-inch theodolite .
The base-line was the distance between the ordnance survey centre-marks on Knock Hill and Innellan Hill .
The necessary information was furnished us by Colonel CLARKE .
It seems unnecessary to give details of the triangulation , the manuscript being left in the charge of the Royal Society for reference .
Calling Kelly House Station , and the reflectors Stations A and respectively , we obtained feet feet .
] These distances require several corrections .
* We wish to record our indebtedness during the whole series of the observations which follow , to the able and skilful assistance rendered to us by Mr. D. , who superintended the working of the chronograph , and aided us in the work generally .
Details of triangulation have been left out .
The part in square brackets here is substituted.\mdash ; G. December 17 , 1881 .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
( 1 .
) The .
distances of the reflectors and toothed wheel form the points used in the triangulation .
These are at feet at foot at feet giving a correction to foot and to feet .
( 2 .
) The thickness of the object-glasses , giving to CA and to CB a correction of feet to each .
These two corrections make feet and feet .
( S. ) The reduction to a sphere whose radius is the distance of Kelly from the earth 's centre instead of the sea level .
The height of Kelly above the sea level is 100 feet .
This correction is quite insensible .
( 4 .
) The reduction of the circular measure of the angle subtended by CA or CB at the earth 's centre to the chord of that arc .
The angle is about 3 ' , and the reduction is quite insensible .
( 5 .
) The station is 414 feet higher than Kelly , and A is also in the same line .
Owing to this cause there is a correction feet to CB and feet to CA .
( 6 .
) Lastly , the rays of light do not go in a straight line from to A or because they are bent into a curve by refraction .
The curvature is so small that we may consider it as a part of a circle of very large radius .
Supposing that .
refraction amounted to half as much as the horizontal refraction of a heavenly body , , to 15 ' , then the angle subtended by this part of a circle would be 30 ' .
Bub the difference between the circular measure of 30 ' and the chord of the arc is insensible .
Hence this correction is insensible .
The final result is that the distance feet and feet .
Or miles .
miles .
of eclipses of A or before his final speed is obtained .
He adjusts the width of the teeth by raising or lowering the mechanism by means of one of the levelling screws .
When the speed which gives equality of lights is nearly obtained he notices and records whether A or is increasing with increase of speed .
He makes the equality of lights more exact by adding to or taking from the driving weights , or by pulling the catgut supporting the weights either up or down , or by touching the milled head on the arbor of the second wheel on the mechanism , or in such a way as he has decided upon , until he feels that he has complete power to produce equality of lights .
He then says to the assistant " " Begin The assistant gives a definite speed ( judged by the eye ) to the fly-wheel and cylinder of about one revolution a second .
After a few seconds the obsel'ver assumes that the cylinder is rotating uniformly .
He makes contact .
The pens touch the smoked cylinder .
The assistant immediately begins to lower the support of the pens by means of the rack and pinion , so as to make the pens describe spirals close to each other , the pens meanwhile marking seconds of the , and hundreds of revolutions of the toothed wheel respectively .
The observer now adjusts the speed so as to produce equality of brightness in the two stars .
When he is quite certain that he has attained this he breaks contact for one-eig.hth of a second or thereabouts .
This leaves a blank in the spiral traces , the commencement of which indicates the time at which the speed is required .
The 12th and 13th equalities were generally used , and sometimes the 14th .
Successive observations were always made successive equalities to allow of the complete elimination of alluded to in the theory of our method .
The cylinder is completely covered after four or five observations have been made .
After the spirals have been traced by the clock-pen and the wheel-pen upon the smoked cylinder of the chronograph , the divided circle and vernier are attached to the instrument , the former being divided into 500 divisions , and the latter reading to of a revolution .
The microscope with its cross wires is placed so that the marked by the pens on the spiral traces can be readily seen , and brought VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
to coincide in succession with the vertical wire .
This.done , a reading is taken , and the cylinder turned round until another mark coincides with the vertical wlre .
So the operation is continued , first with the wheel marks , and afterwards with the dock marks .
In reading off the marks on each side of a break in the traces care must be taken to notice whether a mark ( or it may be even two marks ) have been omitted .
Care must also be taken to notice the number of whole revolutions of the cylinder .
But it is only in the case of the clock-pen that this is necessary ; and even in this case bhe omission of this could hardly lead us into error .
In this way we may obtain a series of readings for the wheel and clock respectively such as the following:\mdash ; January 20 , 1881 , No. 6 .
The signals are indicated by the commencement of the break in the pen traces .
Notice that in the reading of the wheel marks the third one is a blank , indicating that one mark is omitted in the break .
In consequence of this the corresponding " " difference\ldquo ; is half of the difference between the two numbers 2,642 and 7,449 .
Notice also that in taking the clock differences we must subtract the lternate readings , partly because the clock cannot be perfectly " " in beat and partly because the electrical co1mexion is such as to make the length of the second , as registered , depend upon the direction of vibration of the pendulum .
The " " difference such as 2,411 , in the column of the wheel record , is the number of divisions ( or ten-thousandths of a revolution ) passed over by the cylinder in the course of 100 revolutions of the toothed wheel .
The " " alternate difference such as 22,419 in the column of the clock record , is tho number of divisions passed over by the cylinder in the course of two seconds of time .
If the cylinder rotated with perfect uniformity the quotient of these two numbers , viz. , , would be the number of hundreds of revolutions completed by the toothed wheel in two seconds of time , and if we multiply this number by 50 , we get 464 93 revolutions per second as the speed of the toothed wheel .
But as a matter of fact the chronograph-cylinder is constantly accelerated by the small weight , and retarded by the friction of the instrument .
The total effect is generally a retardation , gradually diminishing the velocity of rotation of the chronothe toothed wheel , at the instant when the pen is at the reading 1,437 ; and that it passing over revolution in 100 turns of the toothed wheel when the pen is the reading 5,046 .
A simple proportion tells us that when the pen is at the reading of the signal , i. e. , 3,810 , the number of revolutions in 100 turns of the toothed wheel il But in the case of the clock trace we use intervals of two seconds .
Here the case very different .
From the readings of the chronograph we must determine what was the actual velocity of the cylinder at some particular reading of the chronograph , what was the retardation produced by the excess of friction , what is the law according to which the velocity of rotation of the cylinder varies with the reading upon the cylinder ; and thence what was the velocity of its rotation at the time when the signal was indicated .
Let be the reading at any time , and the velocity of rotation of the cylinder .
When , let , and let Let and when the times are respectively .
Let be the excess of friction , or the retardation .
Then Therefore velocity of rotation at the time Now let be the reading corresponding to the velocity of rotation , or the reading at that time but Th.erefore VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
) In our case seconds .
Hence we have , corresponding to To determine the value off we notice above that so ( where is the reading of the clock mark two seconds later than the mark indicated by , but seconds .
Therefore , subtracting , we have whence It follows then that is equal to the second alternate difference in the above example divided by 4 .
This value off , thus determined , is never perfectly constant ; but we can interpolate so as to find its mean .
value in the interval between the reading and the reading corresponding to the signal given by the observer .
[ N.B.\mdash ; When through imperfection of adjustment the values of were very discordant , the observation was always rejected .
] To deduce the velocity of rotation of the cylinder when the reading ( corresponding to the signal ) was , we notice that ( A ) The first thing to be done in applying these formulae is to determine the of which is to be adopted .
The record given above shows us that , at the reading 23,072 , ; and at the reading 32,309 , ; and we obtain for the value of , at the signal reading 24,108 , by simple proportion , Taking find ( assuming is sufficiently near to the value of ) .
The value of corresponding to this value of is The value for which we must adopt is the mean of these two , and [ We might adopt this improved value for to find a truer value for , and thence we might get a still nearer approximation to the correct value of .
In practice we find that no greater accuracy would be thus attained .
] Substituting now in equation ( A ) we have and We have no , glected all account of the position of the decimal point up to this stage .
It is easy to see that the above value of means that the cylinder of the chronograph is , at the instant of equality of the lights , rotating at a speed which if uniform would accomplish revolutions per second .
At the same instant the cylinder rotated of a revolution in the time taken by the toothed wheel to complete 100 revolutions .
Hence the speed of rotation of the toothed wheel is revolutions per second .
The value of is calculated by the help of seven-figure logarithm@ .
Having now studied in detail the method of reduction of this particular observation , the following systematic form for the tabulation of results will easily be understood VILOCITY OF WHITE OF .
257 Referring to the mathematical theory of our method it will be seen tlJat in order to calculate for each observation the slight correction which must be applied , owing to being not exactly equal to , it is necessary to make a first approximation to the velocity of light neglecting this small correction .
Our formula for this first approximation , studying the 12th and 13th equality ( which is the best pair for our purpose ) , is The mean value of all our determinations of is Also is .
2.9444922 logr . . .
first approximation .
These are the values which are adopted in calculating the second term in the folowing reductions .
The rejection of \mdash ; We resolved never to reject a single observation simply because it differed largely from our average result .
The only cases where we rejected an observation were ( 1 ) when there was no corresponding observation of the next equality taken at a very short interval of time , and ( 2 ) when the traces made by the clock pen on the chronograph showed great irregularities in the second differences , or when they showed that the friction on the axle was abnormally great .
With reference to No. ( 1 ) we may state that a quarter of an hour even.might alter the value of by fog , \amp ; c. , and this would invalidate the result .
With reference to No. ( 2 ) it is right to say that we generally read off a large number of clock-pen marks corresponding to each observation .
From these we could easily judge if the chronograph was working well .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
From Nos. 1 and 2 ] Correction for second term differences .
From Nos. 5 and 6 Correction for second term VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
261 Product From Nos. 8 and 9 Correction for second term From Nos. 9 and 10 Correction for second term L Product From Nos. 10 and Correction for second term VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
From Nos. 3 and 4 FroIn Nos. 6 and 6 Correction for econd t : OF WHITh1 AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
From Nos. 2 and 3 Correction for second term CCCLXXXII .
2 From Nos. 6 and 7 Product Correction for second term VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
From Nos. 7 and 8 Product Corr ction for second term * From Nos. 2 and Correction for second term From Nos. 3 and 4 Correclion for second term VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
The following is a summary of these results:\mdash ; and 13th equalities .
1880 December 21 , Nos. 1 and 2 miles per second .
1881 January 20 , Nos. 3 , , 4 Mean for 12th and 13th equality .
: , , 13th and 14th equalities .
1880 December 21 , Nos. 2 and 3 miles per second .
1881 January 20 , Nos. 6 , , 7 186 , January 21 , Nos. 2 , , 3 188 , 110 \ldquo ; Mean for 13th and 14th equalities : , General mean of both sets .
, 167 Multiplying this by the mean refractive index of air we obtain the value for the velocity in vacuo , viz. : 187,221 miles per second .
This must be corrected for the rate of our clock .
One second of our clock is equal to of a mean solar second .
Dividing the value found for V by this quantity , we obtain the final value for the velocity of the white light from an electric lamp in vacuo , viz. :\mdash ; miles per second kiloms .
per second Using STRUVE'S constant of aberration The resulting parallax of the sun is Distance of the sum miles .
The value obtained by CORN using the method of FIZEAU , was kiloms .
per second .
He nearly always used the DRUMMOND ( or lime ) light .
A few expertments were made with a petroleum lamp .
* ' ' Annals de l'Observatoire de Paris\ldquo ; ( Memoires , tome xiii 1876 .
set of observations where he used the electric light , and which he considered un satisfactory .
Thus we have three series of very carefully conducted experiments toe determine the velocity of light , each one differing essentially from the others in their method of research ; the results are all very close to each other , and we believe that in the sequel we shall be able to show reasons for the outstanding differences .
Grouping the three sets in order we have:\mdash ; MICHELSON . . . . .
460 kiloms .
per second .
YOUNG and MICHELSON .
1,442 , YOUNG and CoRNU 982 After we had completed the observations which have now been reduced , we found reason for ] ieving that the velocity of light depends upon its colour , and further examination of the question confirmed us in this opinion .
It seemed useless then to continue to measure the velocity of a light whose colour changes ibly and quite sufficiently to give us values for the velocity of light varying much more .
than any errors of observation could make them vary .
We then devoted our attention to an examination of the question involved in the second part of our research , viz. : whether the velocity of light depends upon its colour , and if so to what degree .
PART II .
RELATIVE VELOCITy OF LIGHTS 0F D1FFEBHiNT COLOURS .
Does the velocity of light depend upon its colou Before describing the observations which furnish an answer to this question , we will briefly recapitulate the general arrangements in our method of working , so that those who wish it may study this part of our research independently of the rest .
* " " Astronomical Papers prepared for the use of the American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac Vol. , part , 1880 .
" " de 1'Observatoire de Paris \ldquo ; Memoires , tome xiii 1876 .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
Our method is very like that of M. .
We have an observing telescope , in the focus of which , and in a plane perpendicular to the axis of which , we have a toothed wheel ] ving with very great velocity .
The light from the sun or from an lectric or other lamp is condensed by a lens , and reflected by a diagonal reflector in the eye-piece , so as to throw an image of the incandescent carbons upon the toothed heel .
The light passing between the teeth goes to a reflector and returns by reflection to object-glass of the observing telescope , by which the rays are brought to a focus in the plane of the toothed wheel at that exact part of the focal plane whence the rays had emerged which were capable of striking the distant reflector .
This point in the focal plane is of course that point at which the observer sees the distant reflector ( through a small aperture in the diagonal reflector ) , or at which he sees a star of light when the lamp is in action .
If the double distance to the distant reflector and back were about six miles , we know , roughly speaking , takes about oo secoIJd to traverse the double distance .
Now suppose the wheel to rotate very slowly .
We see alternately a tooth of the wheel , and a star of light shining in the interval between two teeth .
If the speed be increased so that more than 10 teeth pass in a second , the persistence of visual impressions causes us to be unable to distinguish these alternate phases .
We see a star of light continuously upon a partially illuminated field .
If in second a tooth passes into the position previously occupied by a space , then the light which passed away through a space to the distant reflector is on its return btopped by a tooth and we see nothing but the tooth , while when a space between two teeth is at that part of t , he field of view where the star should appear no star of light is seen , because second ago a tooth occupied that position , and no light could get through to go to the distant reflector .
If there be 400 teeth in the wheel this speed of revolution is of a second to one revolution , or revolutions a second .
At this speed of revolution no star of light would be seen , but if the speed be doubled the light passing out through a space to the distant reflector can on its return pass through the next space to the eye of the observer , and the light is seen with its full intens tie .
If the speed revolutions a second be increased threefold , fiyefold , \amp ; c or any odd number of times , we have an eclipse of the star .
If that speed be increased twofold , fourfold , \amp ; c. , or any even number of times , we ha , ve full brightness .
FIZEAU , and CORNU after him , measured the speed required to produce an eclipse , and thence they deduced a value for the velocity of light .
Our method , however , differs distinctly from theirs in this way : that place of having a single reflector in the distance , we have two at different distances from the observing telescope , but nearly in the same line with it , so that the observer in looking through the telescope sees two stars side by side separated from each other by a distance of about of arc .
While the toothed wheel is being rotated with gradually increasing speed , the star coming from the more distant reflector ( which we call A ) is eclipsed before that one coming from the nearer reflector ( which we call B ) .
As the speed increases A grows distance of A from the observer is to that of in the ratio of about 18 to Hence it follows that the sixth maximum of coincides with the seventh of A. In the following figure abscissae represent speeds of revolution of the toothe4 wheel , and ordinates intensities of the stars .
intersection of the two lines cates equality of brightness and shows the speed required to produce it .
Fig. 2 .
The lines in the above figure which indicate the brightness are subject to certain alterations dependant upon the necessary imperfections in the optical and mechanical parts of the apparatus .
It has been shown in the previous part of this memoir that our method is in general unaffected by these alterations .
Most of our observations have been made at speeds corresponding to the 12th , 13th , and 14th equalities , and it be unnecessary in the diagrams which represent further development of the theory to delineate other parts of the diagram .
Distinctive colours in the return light .
Having made preliminary remarks , we will now proceed to trace the steps by means of which the relation between colour and velocity has been suspected , and the quantity of the effect has been approximately determined .
In the course of our observations made with sunlight at Pitlochry in , and in those made with the electric light at Kelly in 1880-81 , we were frequently annoyed by the presence of colour in the stars , one of them appearing reddish and the other bluish .
This made it very difficult to appreciate the exact speed which might be said to produce equality in the lights ; ; as is well known , it is very difficult , if not impossible , to judge accurately of the equality of two lights of different colours .
We considered that these oolours arose from a want of accurate adjustment of the distant reflectors .
These consist each of a telescope tube with an achromatic object-glass at one end , but with no eye-piece , and having a silver mirror at the focus of the object glass .
An image of the object-glass of the observing telescope is thrown by the rays from the source of light upon the silver mirror , whence the light is reflected back to the observing telescope .
Now the quantity of light which is reflected back into the observing telescope depends largely upon the accuracy of focus of the reflecting VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
mator .
If , then , the object-glass be not accurately achromatised the ) reflector may be focussed accurately for blue rays and the other for red rays .
Thus we should have one star intrinsically redder than the other .
In consequence of these considerations , we used , whenever we noticed a difference in colour , to mention the fact , in order that cause of inaccuracy in the observation might be taken account of .
We did not take particular notice which star was red and which blue , though we sometimes noted the fact .
We had no idea that any information might be gained by always noticing which star was red and which one blue .
On different days the distinctness and steadiness of the stars varied enormously .
The days when the stars were steady and distinct were the days on which we got the best observations , and felt most certainty about the exact speeds which produced equality in the two stars , except that it was often on these days that the difference in colour troubled us most .
On the 11th February , 1881 , we were making the regular observations for determining the speed of revolution of the toothed wheel required to give the 12th , 13th , and 14th equalities , corresponding to speeds of about 410 , 450 , and 490 revolutions a second .
These speeds were obtained by using three , four , or five weights to drive the mechanism .
The observations in the observing book are numbered from 1 upwards .
The following observations , 1 to 5 , were taken between 9.30 .
and 9.50 .
The remarks are extracted from the observing book , and were written at the time , an entry being made after each observation .
" " February 11 , 1881.\mdash ; Splendid morning .
A and very bright and steady .
If anything , A is greater than B. 1.\mdash ; Three weights .
incleasing with increase of speed .
reddish , A bluish ? .
2.\mdash ; Four weights .
A increasing , , , , , , , , 3.\mdash ; Five weights .
increasing , , , , , , , , 4.\mdash ; Four weights .
A increasing , , , , , , , , 5.\mdash ; Three weights .
increasing , , , , , , , , ( Not a very good observation mark ?
expressing doubt about the colour in the first observation was inserted after the second observation had been made , and was so inserted because they seemed to be antagonistic .
When the observations numbered 6 and 7 respectively were being taken at 10.55 , the following l.emark is entered in the observing book : " " The same phenomenon as above This refers to the colours .
A number of trials were then made at difTerent speeds ( in which no use was made of the chronograph ) to examine still further this remarkable phenomenon , and the following statement is made in the observing book Always the light which is was not always due to the adjustment of the distant reflectors .
For here sometim* the one and sometimes the other was the red one .
At each successive ( e.g. , the 11th and 12th , the 12th and lSth , \amp ; c. ) the colours of A and are reverseA Since February 11 there certainly have been many days when the were not perceptible .
It may perhaps have been because the stars were not steady or were flickering or indistinct .
On these occasions the atmospheric refraction disturbs the course of the rays , so that the teeth of the wheel being extremely minute , a ray of light which , if there were no irregular atmospheric refraction , would not reach the reflector , does so under these circumstances .
In such a case the stars do not alter their intensities , with change of speed of the toothed wheel , so regularly as they do when the atmosphere is not unequally heated and disturbed .
The general result however was established by the observations on February 11 , 1881 , but it is not a common observation .
Explanation of colours perceived the return light .
The simplest explanation which can be given of these phenomena , and the only explanation which seems to be capable of standing all kinds of tests , is that the different colours with different velocities , the more refrangible rays , or those with slwrtest wave-length , velling quickest .
If this were the case we should be forced to alter our diagram indicatin the intensities of A and B. We should have as many curves of intensity for each of the two stars of light as there are ] ours in the light we are employing .
Let us examine only two of these colours ( red and blue for example ) .
If the red light travel slower than the blue a smaller velocity is required to produce an eclipse with red light and with blue .
For this reason the curve representing intensity in terms of speed of rotation for red light will have its maxima and minima lagging gradua ] more and more behind those for the blue light .
We are in general dealing only with the speeds of rotation which produce the 12th ; 13th , and 14th equalities ; and during that small variation in speed the lines for red and for blue light may , for purposes of illustration , be sensibly parallel .
The curves for the two stars A and would then be shown approximately by the following diagram , in which dotted lines represent red light , and full lines blue light .
Here we notice that at the light of A is diminishing with increase of speed , and the abscissa corresponding to blue light is greater than that corresponding to red light .
Hence , when the intensity is diminishing with of speed the star should a blue tinge .
But at the light of A is increasing with increase of speed , and the abscissa corresponding to red light is greater than that corresponding to blue light .
Hence , when the is with of speed the should have red Observation these statements .
Hence the observations can be explained on the assumption that blue light travels quicker than red light .
The analytical expression of this result is quite simple .
SS2 and 3 of the matical theory give the following values for the intensities of red and violet light ( indicated by the suffixes and V ) : 1 .
Light increasing with increase of speed But if the velocity for violet is greater than for red light , is greater than and hence is greater than in the evell phases , and the light will appear tinged with red .
2 .
Light diminishing with increase of speed ) Here , on the other hand , if Nv be greater than , we have the return light will be tinged with blue , in the odd phases .
First measurements .
the in velocity of red and )light .
While we were quite prepared to examine every possible source of error in these new and unexpected conclusions , we considered it to be of first importance ttempt to get , even in a rough manner , some actual measurements of the diHerence velocity of red and blue light , on the assumption that such a difference is the explanation of our results .
From the aboye figure it will be seen that the speed of rotation necessary to give equality of lights must always be greater for blue than for red light .
It is also clear that the difference in speed of rotation for red and for blue the same relation to the bsolute speed of rotation for either of the difference in velocity between rays of red and blue light bears to velocity which produced an equality ( l ) in the ordinary way with the white light of the lamp , and ( 2 ) with eye screened by a piece of ruby red glass .
The observations made with this object on February 11 are named in the observing : book No. 13 ( white ) , No. 13 No. 14 ( white ) , and No. 14 ( red ) .
They were not very satisfactory , for the differences found between the velocities of red and white light were small .
The observations No. 13 were at the speed producing the 13th equality .
The observations No. 14 were at the speed producing the 14th equality .
The speeds of rotation finally deduced from the chronograph records were as follows:\mdash ; Difference .
Observation No. 13 ( red ) speed of rotation . . . . .
No. 13 ( white ) , , , , . . . . .
No. 14 ( red ) speed of rotation . . . . .
No. 14 ( white ) , , , , . . . . .
per cent. from NoNo .
These differences are small ; but on the whole they indicate a greater speed lor white than for red light .
But these differences might be suspected to be due to irregularities in bhe action of the chronograph .
The general result seemed to be that we must obtain a greater difference in speed by choosing two colours of light , differing considerably in wave-length , and that we might with advantage discard the chronograph as an absolute measurer of speeds , and adopt some more delicate means of measuring minute differences of speed .
Great difficulty was found in obtaining a blue medium which would sufficiently stop out the red rays .
The ordinary blue glass , coloured with cobalt , allows large quantities of red light to pass .
We tried eight or nine solutions , which we put into glass cells with parallel sides and tested with a prism .
We found that a nitrate of copper solution gave the least quantity of red .
*S 4 of the mathematical theory gives us the value of for the equality for red light , viz. , If now we notice that for violet light and must be multiplied by Thus we have difference of velocities for red and violet also \mdash ; velocity of red light Q. E. D The observations and reductions are in the hands of the Royal Society .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
First for red blue light .
After February 11 we never had a clear day or night to continue our research until the of the month .
We then made observations in the following manner:\mdash ; A thick piece of indiarubber tubing was attached to the top of the pulley which supports the weights driving the toothed wheel .
At its upper end it was attached to a string , which , passing over a fixed pulley , was held by the observer .
The observer adjusted the driving weights so as to be a little in excess of what was required to produce equality of the lights .
He then fixed the string tightly , and as the weights descended , the indiarubber was stretched , and diminished the effective driving weight .
In this way a beautifully gradual diminution of velocity was obtained , accompanied by as beautifully gradual an increase and decrease in the brightness of the two stars respectively .
Our plan was to place the blue solution between the lamp and the diagonal reflector .
When equality of lights was attained the observer said " " Stop\ldquo ; to the assistant , who then commenced to count seconds on the clock .
At the same time the blue solution was replaced by a piece of ruby glass .
When equality of red lights was attained the observer again said " " Stop The interval of time was then noted in the observing book .
Our intention was to measure by means of the chronograph , at our leisure , the diminution in velocity produced by the action of the indiarubber during a given number of seconds .
Alongside of each observation we entered in the observing book the weights we used .
But in the observations of February 21 these were nearly always the same , and it was always the 12th equality which was observed , being a speed of about 400 revolutions a second .
It will nevertheless be well here to tabulate the names of the weights employed and their absolute weights , as reference is frequently made in the observing book to them .
We usually had one large lead weight to begin with , and this was the one used when one lead weight is spoken of .
It weighed .
We had two other lead weights which might be added , each weighing 12 lbs. 2 oz. We had five iron weights , each weighing oz. These were generally supported by an additional iron hook weighing llb .
11 oz. Smaller weights , two of which were called and , each weighing about llb .
, and others weighing a few ounces , were used as ] The length of the indiarubber tubing which we generally , if not always , used was inches when unstretched .
It lengthens 3 ches with the addition of llb .
weight .
With one lead weight the fall of the weight when driving the mechanism is 1 inch in 7 seconds .
With three lead weights , one iron weight and hook oz the fall is 1 inch in seconds .
[ N.B.\mdash ; It must be remembered that the effective weight is half of the actual weight owing to the action of the pulley .
] On February 21 eight observations were made in the malmer described above .
little practice was required to get accustomed to the method of observation , but aftel .\mdash ; No. 1 .
At 5.30 .
Two lead weights and .
Blue to seconds The following were between 7 and 8 .:\mdash ; No. 2 .
Two lead weights and hook .
Interval seconds .
" " No. 3 , Weights as before . . . .
Interval seconds .
" " No. 4 .
, , , , . . . .
Interval seconds .
" " No. 5 .
, , , , .
Interval seconds .
" " No. 6 .
, , , , . . . .
Interval seconds .
Very good .
" " No. 7 .
, , , , . . . .
Interval seconds .
' ' No. 8 .
, , , , . . . .
Interval seconds The following remark is added : \mdash ; " " During the whole of to-day\mdash ; while trying different methods to detect the difference in velocity of different coloured rays\mdash ; I have at every step been struck by the enormous rence that exists , It is easy to get a velocity for which A is greater for blue light while is greater for red light .
Sometimes , when A and are equal for blue , A or is almost invisible for red , and the other at [ near ?
] its maximum On the evening of February 21 chronograph measurements were made to determine the loss of speed after the indiarubber had been in action for some definite interval of time .
The interval adopted was about 18 seconds .
The and reductions are in the hands of the Royal Society .
The results of four such determinations are as follows:\mdash ; eginning outions psecond -ution opeed isecond Average . . . .
revolution per second .
Although these measurements vary a little amongst each other , they give sufficiently well a rough knowledge of the rate at which the indiarubber reduces the speed .
The average interval of time between the equality of red and blue lights was seconds .
This multiplied by gives us a difference of revolutions a second , VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
about per cent. of the speed producing equality of white light ( 410 revolutions per second ) .
It appears then from these experiments that the difference in velocity of red and blue lights is about per cent. of the total velocity of light .
The eight separate observat , ions give the following values : , 1.14 , 2.40 , 2.88 , 5.40 , 2.46 , 2.40 , 2.52 .
On February 23 a red solution was substituted for the ruby red glass , as it allowed fewer of the more ible rays to pass .
In these experlments the chronograph was used directly ; the velocity of rotation of the toothed wheel being reduced as before by means of the indiarubber tubing .
The observation book contains the following entry:\mdash ; Lights very bright .
A greater than decidedly .
Observations pelfectly satisfactory .
Interval between first and second signals [ those for blue and red lights ] about 20 seconds .
Whole set [ four observations ] completed in 10 mlnutes .
Atmosphere very clear all the time .
" " No. 1 .
A increasing with increase of speed .
Blue light .
( When blue lights were equal , on changing to red light , A was far too bright .
) " " No. 2 .
A increasing with increase of speed .
Red light .
" " No. 3 .
Blue light .
No. 4 .
, , , , , , , , Red light The chronograph was used this day in a different manner to that usually adopted .
Contrary to our expectation , the result was not satisfactory , and we do not think that the speeds obtained can be relied upon .
We can only say therefore to-day that the general effect was the same as before .
The defect we allude to .probably due to a small mistake in counting the number of pen marks a certaln space upon the chronograph cylinder .
The readings of the chronograph and the reductions however , in the hands of the Royal Society .
Exceptional On February 24 , 1.0 , the foUowing was made:\mdash ; " " Tried two speeds .
( 1 ) A increasing with increase of speed , ( 2 ) increasing .
Used red and blue lights .
There seemed to be a decided tendency for red to require a greater velocity than to produce equality .
This is contrary to all our previous experience .
A was decidedly brighter than , but both were tolerably steady and bright A few minutes later the following observation was made : " " With white light .
" " A blue , red .
Increase of speed increases brightness of A. [ This is contrary to previous experience .
] This was with speed about 440 , Let us see now what would be the effect of A being bluer than The following figure represents such a case on the supposition that blue and red light travel with the same velocity , and that A is deficient in red light .
Full represent blue light , and dotted lines red .
These coincide for B. Fig. 4 .
The result is clear that at different successive phases the blue and red rays alterrlately require a greater speed of rotation to produce equality of lights .
But this does not in the least represent the results of our observations .
The following diagram illustrates the case where A is deficient in red light , on the assumption that blue rays travel quickest .
Fig. 5 .
The maxima of A and with different speeds are indicated by the letters , B. The red is shown to reach its maximum before the blue .
The red in A is shown to have a smaller maximum than the red in B. The intersections of the ful ] and dotted lines represent the speeds producing equality of the blue and red rays respectively .
Here @y is almost nil , whereas @x is too great .
Hence , if we observe only at one speed , we may get far too great or far too small a difference between the velocities of red and blue light .
The mean of @y and @'j is ( nearly ) that due to the difference in velocity of red and blue rays .
[ N.B.\mdash ; Our obselvations on February 23 were taken at the 12th and at the 13th equalities , so that this cause of uncertainty is eliminated .
] LOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
- On February 25 , 1881 , was greater than A. A was bluish compared with when the tcothed wheel was removed .
Three observations were made , but they show no decided difference between @x and Sy .
The indiarubber was used as before .
No. 1 .
12th equality of lights . . . . .
Blue-red seconds .
No. 2 .
13th , , . . . . .
, , , , No. 3 .
12th equality of light , , , , Now the loss of speed caused by the indiarubber in one second is revolution per second .
The 12th equality is at a speed of about 420 revolutions a second ; and the 13th equality about 460 revolutions a second .
From these we get the difference between the velocity for red and for blue light , in percentages of the whole , follows:\mdash ; From No. 1 we have per cenlt .
No. 2 , , 0.43 No. 3 , 0.70 , On February 27 , between noon and 1 , measurements were made in the usual way with the indiarubber , which was a most convenient method of working at different speeds : \mdash ; No. 1 .
12th equality . . . . .
Blue-red seconds .
No. 2 .
13th , , . . . . .
, , , , ( In this observation the indiarubber did not seem to act well after the blue equality ) .
The observations were continued at 4 .
at various speeds slower than those we had previously experimented upon : No. .3 .
9th equality No. 4 .
10th No. 5 .
9th No. 6 .
10th No. 7 .
lOth No. 8 .
11th Blue-red seconds .
\ldquo ; : , The following remarks are appended:\mdash ; " " Observations from 3 to 8 , lights splendidly steady and equal .
The difference in velocity for red and blue most striking .
A and are precisely the same colour .
Both A and looked like clearly defined circles with no phenomena .
This is very uncommon , and the observations are therefore valuable On the same day some more chronographic measurements were made to detel.ltine the reduction in speed per second of time produced by the rubber , speeds of the 10th and and they gave us\mdash ; $ lOth equality revolutions per second diminution in 1 second .
11th , , 0.29 9th , , 0.31 Reducing the first and second observations as before , allowing for a diminution of speed of revolution a second , per second\mdash ; From No. 1 we have per cent. \ldquo ; No. 2 , Chronograph records wele afterwards taken at about the speeds of the 9th , 10th , and 11th equalities , and the speeds read off at intervals of about 8 or 10 seconds .
Thus we obtairled the percentage loss of speed in one second .
Reducing the of this day we have\mdash ; No. 3 .
9th equality ; and red ) per cent. No. 4 .
10th , , , , , , No. 5 .
, , , , No 6 .
10th , , , , , , No. 7 .
10th , , , , , , No. 8 .
11th , , , , , , Mean of the day 's observations IJarch 1 , 1881.\mdash ; In the interval between February 27 and March 1 we removed th ' wedge under the toothed wheel brought the mechanism into an upright position Seeing that the solutions which we had hitherto used to produce our colours allowed colours of very different refrangibilities to pass , we thought it would be satisfactory tc try the effect of pure prismatic colours .
To do this we mounted a bisulphide of carbon bottle-prism in front of the condenser and succeeded in throwing a pure spectrum upon the toothed wheel .
The distance traversed by the rays from the prism to the toothed wheel was inches .
The electric lamp was mounted upon so that we could easily move it to change the colours .
A motion of only about -inch of the spectrum changed the colour of the stars from blue to red .
This was a very convenient and pleasant method of working .
The indiarubber was used as before .
The following remarks are extracted from the observing book : " " Reduced velocity by stretched indiarubber .
Used prism for colours .
Deflection of spectrum in inches given below [ this was measured approximately by our assistant ] .
VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
No. 1 .
Green to orange . . .
12-inch , seconds , 12th equality , good No. 2 .
Green to reddish-orange -inch , 15 , , 13th , , good No. 3 .
Blue to orange . . .
-inch , 9 , , 14th , , fair No. 4 .
Deep blue to blood-red -inch , 9 , , 14th , , very good .
" " This was a most successful mode of observation .
Though was much greater than '1 A the equality was well determined each time In reducing these observations it is clearly impossible to take into account the exact refrangibilities or wave-lengths of the colours named .
The general change was a slightly greenish-blne to a red tinged with orange .
Reducing as before , we have\mdash ; No. 1 .
and red ) per cent. No. 2 .
, , No. 3 .
, , No. 4 .
, , March 8 , 1 .\mdash ; It might , perhaps , be thought that we had now thoroughly tested and confirmed our first conclusions by the variety of our tests .
But we were anxious to leave no room for doubt and to vary the tests in every possible way , and we thought that some advantage might be gained by changing entirely our method of altering the speed , so as gradually to increase it , the reverse of what we had done with the indiarubber .
Accordingly we attached an iron crucible to the weights and led a thick indiarubber tube from it up to a funnel with a stop-cock , in reach of the observer .
We filled this with mercury , and having put on such weights as were barely sufficient to produce equality , we turned on red light ( using the prism method ) and opened the stop-cock .
So soon as equality of red lights was ined , we said " " Stop\ldquo ; to the assistant , who then commenced to count seconds on the clock .
Mean- time he had instantaneously changed the colour of the light to blue .
When the blue equality arrived we again said ' Stop He gave us the interval in seconds , and the deflection of the spectrum in fractions of an inch , which we entered in the book .
Chronograph tests were afterwards made to measure the increase in speed produced in a second by the flow of mercury .
This method seemed to us to be hardly of so great delicacy as the indiarubber method , but we felt much interest in seeing whether so entirely a different method could give results to those obtained in the previous researches .
The following remarks are extracted from the observing book : " " .\mdash ; No. 1 .
Blue-red seconds .
Exact time uncertain to a few seconds .
General effect positive\ldquo ; [ i.e. , the blue equality required a higher speed ] .
" " No. 3 .
Same arrangements .
Blue-red seconds nearly .
Deflection inch .
" " Want of oil in ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) made velocity irregular .
We tried one observation , but the motion of the wheel seemed quite irregular , and though it the same value ( 16 seconds ) as No. 1 , we could not trust it , because on turning on red light again A was brightest .
We now oiled the mechanism with great effect in steadying the motion and diminishing noise .
But the lights had begun to flicker and we got no good observations At 4 .
the lights improved .
" " 4 .
\mdash ; Oiled axles .
" " No. 4 .
12th equality .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch ; but it did not look so great a change of colour as usual .
" " No. 5 .
Same arrangements .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch .
( The change in colour looked greater .
After equality of blue , tried red again , was far brightest .
" " No. 6 .
Same arrangements .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch .
" " No. 7 .
11th equality .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch .
" " No. 8 .
Ditto .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch ' ' 8.45 .\mdash ; No. 9 .
Same conditions as No. 1\ldquo ; [ 12th equality ] .
: ' Blue-red seconds .
Deflection incl ] .
" " No. 10 .
Same conditions .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch .
Speed varied very slowly .
" " Oiled the mechanism .
" " No. 11 .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch [ 12th equality ] .
" " No. 12 .
-red ) seconds .
Deflection inch [ 12th equality ] .
' ' No. 13 .
Blue-red seconds .
Deflection inch [ 11th equality ] .
" " No. 14 .
Blue-red seconds ( good ) .
Deflection inch [ 11th equality Reducing these results with the aid of the chronograph tests for the mercury method , we obtain the following 14 percentages for the values for difference of velocity of blue and red light mean velocity of light :\mdash ; ( 1 ) 320 ( 4 ) ( 7 ) ( 10 ) 460(18 ) ( 2 ) ( 5 ) 210 ( 8 ) ( 11 ) ( 14 ) ( 6 ) 1 20 ( 9 ) ( 12 ) VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
28.5 The mean of these is 203 per cent. , giving a result which confirms in a satisfactory manner the results arrived at by the other methods .
April 26 and 27.\mdash ; After an absence of month from Kelly we again tested the colour effect on April 26 and 27 .
We used wheels with 250 teeth and with 400 teeth , bright and smoked , upright and inclined .
We ascertained the fact that blue light required the greater velocity of rotation to produce equality ; but we did not make any actual measurements .
We were unable to detect the successive phases of colour which were observed on February 11 .
By collecting results of all the observations on the effect of colour on velocity we shall be able to judge of the general effect:\mdash ; ll.\mdash ; The star which was increasing with increase of speed was red ; the star which was waning with increase of speed was blue .
The percentage difference of red and white light , two observations , and February 21.\mdash ; Ruby-red glass and blue copper solution .
Speed diminished gradually by indiarubber .
Eight observations\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) ( 7 ) ( 2 ) 114 ( 4 ) ( ) ( 8 ) Mean percentage difference February 23.\mdash ; Red solution and blue solution .
Direct measurements of the change of velocity .
Two observations at different speeds\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 2 ) Mean percentage difference .\mdash ; The effect seemed to be of the opposite kind to that hitherto obtained .
February 25.\mdash ; Red and blue solutions .
Indiarubber method .
Three observations\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) Mean percentage difference .\mdash ; Red and blue solutions .
Indiarubb method .
Eight observations\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) 314 ( 7 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) ( 6 ) 110 ( 8 ) Mean percentage difference March l.\mdash ; Pure spectrum thrown by bisulphide of carbon prism upon the toothed wheel .
Blue and red parts of the spectrum used in succession .
Indiarubber method .
Four observations\mdash ; ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) Mean percentage difference ( 1 ) 3.20 ( 2 ) 1.80 ( 3 ) 1.00 ( 4 ) ( 7 ) ( 10 ) ( 5 ) ( 8 ) ( 11 ) ( 9 ) ( 12 ) Mean percentage ( 13 ) 1.80 ( 14 ) 1.40 TABULAR statement of percentage differences in the velocity of red and of blue light .
\ldquo ; .
General mean of 37 observations We cannot account for the apparently negative effect obtained on February 24 .
But when we consider that it was only for a short time that the observations were attempted , and that the appearance of a negative effect was extremely feeble ( almost doubtful ) , and that in so delicate an observation the state of our health might affect the sensitiveness of our appreciation of colour effects , and that on other days the effect was most marked and indubitable , as recorded in numerous passages in our observing book , and quoted above , \mdash ; when we consider an these things we cannot place this single dubious night 's evidence in opposition to the overwhelming testimony of so many positive observations .
It was too much to expect that we should be ] in the first instance to measure , by the differential methods described above , the difference produced by a given difference of wave-length with very great precision .
But there seems little room doubt that the general mean of these 37 observations cannot be far from the truth , and we may affirm that when the wave-length changes from about tenth-metres to about tenth-metres , the velocity changes about per cent. , or in any case somewhat over 1 per cent. VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
287 Let us now consider some of the effects which must follow from these results .
and dispersion.\mdash ; There is nothing in the undulatory theoly of independent of views as to the kind of force acting in the ether , which is opposed to the view that red and blue lights travel with different velocities in vacuo .
We know that the ratios of the velocities of red or blue lights , in a efracting medium and in vacuo , are equal to their refractive indices .
But the theol.y of refraction or dispersion telk us nothing about the ratio of the velocities of red and blue lights either in vacuo or in refracting media .
Interference and diffraction.\mdash ; So with the phenomena of interference and diffraction , which give us a measure of the wave-length of the different colours .
If we could measure the period of vibration of the different colours , this would show us the difference in velocity in the different colours .
But our knowledge of the period of vibration is dependent on the velocity of light , and these phenomena give us no information upon the phenomena we are discussing .
Experiments of ICHELSON .
did not these experimenters notice the effect of colour ?
First , consider the work of .
We might expect that he should have seen colours in his star of near the eclipses .
But when we have a very feeble light changing its intensity it is very difficult to appreciate differences in colour , and he had no light for comparison as we had .
He depended largely for the accuracy of his results o11 two facts : ( 1 ) that he took a mean of 546 pairs of observations , so reducing the probable error to one twenty-third part of that of a single pair of observations , and ( 2 ) that he used eclipses as high as the 21st eclipse , which reduces the personal error of the eye observation to one forty-first part .
We may that he had five phases which calls differing slightly , and he had considerable latitude in placing any single observation in one or othel of these phases .
We may also add that into each set of observations he introduced what he called " " rectifications probables which assisted to eliminate discordances .
Tf , however , we examine his non-rectified results , and classify them according to the source of light used , we shall , we believe , obtain confirmation of our views .
Neglecting the small correction depending upon the phase we have the following results:\mdash ; Compare this with the absolute determinations given on p. 270 .
Lime 1ightSuenC nreiar horizon .
In every case the more refrangible the mean colour of the source of light the greateh is the velocity .
In MICHELSON'S observations the image of the slit was described as indistinct and covering a sensible space .
From our results it would appear that the width of his spectrum between mean red and blue would be about 2 millims. But it would be a very inupure spectrum , and it is only by employing absorptive media , or part of a puro spectrum , to give colour to the light used , that we should expect him to detect the difference .
eclipses and .\mdash ; We might expect that the sun or a star on disappearing behind the moon would appear to be red , and on reappearing would first flash out blue .
But light takes only second to come from the moon and the onefiftieth or one-hundredth part of this is too small an interval of time for us to havs any hopes in this direction .
Eclipses of Jwpiter 's tellites.\mdash ; There must be a difference in time between the .disappearance or reappearance of the blue or red parts of the light of a satellite , amounting to about half a minute .
But the change is so gradual and the light when near eclipse so feeble that we fear this would be a very difficult determination . .
\mdash ; A star exposed fully to the action of aberration must be drawn out into a spectrum parallel to direction of the earth 's motion .
The length of the spectrum between the mean red and blue must be about .
It is possible that with a reflector of good dehnition this effect might be detected .
Temporary .\mdash ; The mean light from the nearest star whose parallax is known takes years to reach the earth .
The difference in time taken by the blue and red rays to reach us must be 13 days .
The star T Corona flashed out suddenly in 1866 .
It was first seen on May 9 , and there seems to be good evidence to show that it was not conspicuous a weak earlier .
On May 9 it of the second magnitude , and it diminished in brightness for some days at the rate of a magnitude a day .
On the 12th May it was examined by Dr. HUGGINS with a spectroscope and showed bright lines in very different parts of the spectrum .
is somewhat contrary to what we should have expected .
But we are not aware that the evidence for the identity of the temporary star and the small one known to be in that position is irresistible , nor do we know that the parallax of that small star has been very carefully studied , nor is the evidence as to the invisibility of the star at the beginning of the month conclusive .
Variable stars.\mdash ; When a variable star brightens the first colour to reach us in increased intensity should be blue , and when it fades the last colour to cease shining VELOCITY OF WHITE AND OF COLOURED LIGHT .
289 splendour should be red .
If we could determine the difference in time between he time of maximum for blue and for red rays , the present research would enable us determine approximately the distance of the .
from us .
Variable stars are certainly known to change colour ; but the only reference to a ystematic law in this connexion which we have ever come upon is in WEBB'S Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes , ' where ( Edition II .
( 1866 ) , p. 208 ) the olowing remarkable passage occurs:\mdash ; " " HIND thinks several variable stars increase blue , are yellow after maximurn , and red in decreasin This is in exact accordance with the results of the present research .
We have applied to Mr. HIND for details of his observations .
He informs us that he remark quoted by WEBB was made in a letter to the Times some twenty-six rears since , on the occasion of notifying a newly discovered variable .
He does not , owever , feel justified in now advising us to place reliance on this as a law .
It appears , then , that our conclusions as to the relation between colour and velocity must for the present rest upon the merit of our observations .
We have ourselves no esitation in saying that the effects were so striking and so decided on the greatest lumber of occasions , that we ourselves have no doubt as to the general conclusion .
we admit that much is still left to be done in the way of absolute determinations .
fhere is little doubt that a further investigation into the matter would help to a rther knowledge of the properties of the ether ( if there be such a substance ) .
This would be specially aided by an exact determination of the law of dependence of relocity upon wave-length .
We believe that , with certain improvements in our pparatus , in a better imate , this determination might be completed .
* The details of our observations on the dependence of velocity on colour are deposited with the Royal Society .
DCCCLXXXII ,

