Isomeric Change in Benzene Derivatives .
1902 .
] Numerous experiments at different temperatures were made when stream-line motion was maintained in the pipe , and the relation of velocity to slope of pressure was determined by logarithmic plotting , giving a series of lines , the " logarithmic homologues " at different temperatures .
The positions of these lines were found to be in substantial agreement with those calculated from the equations of motion .
Similar experiments for eddy motion were made and the logarithmic homologues were also plotted , and their intersections with the corresponding ones for stream-line motion determined .
These intersections give the minimum critical velocity , and were found to lie very approximately on a straight line in the diagram .
The law of variation of critical velocity , ve , with temperature was found to be Ve-1 oc 1 +0-03368T + 0-000156T2 , where T is the temperature Centigrade , which agrees very closely with the known variation in the viscosity of water , viz. , / z-i oc 1 + 0-03368T + 0*00022IT2 ; and it may , therefore , be concluded that over the range of temperature examined the critical velocity of water in small pipes varies directly as the viscosity .
" Isomeric Change in Benzene Derivatives\#151 ; The Interchange of Halogen and Hydroxyl in Benzenediazonium Hydroxides .
" By K. J. P. Orton , Ph. D. , M.A. , St. John 's College , Cambridge , Demonstrator of Chemistry , St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received December 1 , \#151 ; Read December 4,1902 .
In discussing the laws which govern substitution in the case of benzenoid compounds , Armstrong , in 1887 , drew special attention to the peculiar behaviour of amido- and hydroxy-compounds , from which he inferred that the phenomena of substitution were less simple than was commonly supposed .
He showed that there was evidence that the formation of para-derivatives was preceded by that of an isomeric compound formed by the displacement of the aminic hydrogen or hydroxylic hydrogen , and pointed to the probability that this might prove to be true also of ortho-compounds .
Since that time , it has been experimentally demonstrated by various chemists that the radicles , Cl , Br , I , NO2 , SO3H , can all be introduced in place of the hydrogen of the amino-group of anilines and of the imino-group of anilides , and that the compounds thus formed can be 154 I)r- K* J- p- Orton .
[ Dec ^ changed into isomeric substances in which the substituent is contained in the hydrocarbon nucleus .
The transformation of the aniline derivative appears to take place only in the presence of some other substance : in the .case of the phenylacylchloramines , such as C6H5.NC1.C0CH3 , for example , apparently the change into the isomeric chloroacetanilides takes place only under the specific influence of hydrogen chloride* The investigation of such cases of isomeric change is , in fact , of special interest as they are , so to speak , " fermentative " in character , often taking place with remarkable facility , and under the influence of minute amounts of the substance , which apparently provokes the change\#151 ; the catalyst .
Measurements of the velocity at which changes of this type occur , for example , of diazoaminobenzene into aminoazobenzene , f show that a velocity-coefficient of constant value is given by the equation , k \#151 ; t~l log a/ ( a -x ) .
The isomeric change is , therefore , apparently a so-called mono-molecular change ; but , as in other cases , .
the slowest of the series of simple changes which make up the complete transformation is alone measured ; moreover , the substance which conditions the change is not taken into account .
This paper deals with a new case of intramolecular change of a particularly interesting character : that of s-trichloro- and s-tribromo-benzenediazonium hydroxide , 06H2X3.N(OH):N , into hydroxybenzene derivatives , by the interchange of the hydroxyl for one of the orthohalogen atoms .
The change takes place under all conditions under which it is possible for the diazonium hydroxide to be present .
Thus in dilute aqueous solutions of the neutral diazonium nitrate , or even of the hydrogen sulphate , chloride is just recognisable by means .of silver nitrate after 24 hours ; at the same time the solution becomes yellow , owing to the formation of the diazophenol .
But as the extent to which the nitrate , and more especially the sulphate , undergoes hydrolytic dissociation is extremely small , the isomeric change takes place very slowly ; and in the presence of a considerable excess of acid no appreciable change occurs during 5 days .
On the other hand , using diazonium acetate , 50 per cent , of the material changes within 30\#151 ; 40 hours ; and in the case of diazonium bicarbonate the change is nearly instantaneous .
That the change is a transformation of the diazonium hydroxide is further emphasised by the fact that the addition of a solution of the diazonium salt to a considerable excess of an aqueous solution of an alkali carbonate , is not followed by elimination of halogen ; the solution remains colour * Compare Armstrong , ' British .
Association Report , ' 1899 , p. 683 ; 'Trans .
Chem. Soc. , ' 1900 , vol. 77 , p. 1053 .
f Goldschmidt and Reinders , 'Bericbte , ' 1896 , vol. 29 , p. 1369 .
1902.1 Isomeric Change in Benzene Derivatives .
155 less , the diazonium salt being immediately converted into the alkali diazotate.* The latter change may be represented thus\#151 ; cgh2x3.nr:n -* c6h2x3.N(OH ) ; n \#151 ; c6h2x3.n:nom ' .
Diazonium salt .
Diazonium hydroxide .
Diazotate .
As the author has maintained on previous occasions , the first step in this type of intramolecular change consists in a transference of the atom or group attached to the nitrogen to the ortho- or para-carbon atom of the nucleus , an ortho- or para-quinone being formed .
The complete transformation in the case here described may be represented in the following manner:\#151 ; NiN .
OH Cl/ ^lCl II I \\#171 ; f 01 J. NjN NiN .
Cl N=N n8 c li \#166 ; i\ei Cl-^^OH ci/ \d Cl/ S -*\#166 ; either 3 'r kJ \J \\lt ; f Cl Cl Cl Cl ir .
III .
IY .
y. In other words , the diazonium chloride ( III ) may be represented as changing into the " diazophenol " ( IV ) ; or , if , following Wolff f and Hantzsch , | the diazophenols are considered to be diazoquinones ( V ) , the ortho-quin one form ( II ) merely loses hydrogen chloride .
Closely allied to the intramolecular change just mentioned , are Hantzsch 's observations S that s-tribromobenzenediazonium chloride changes into * chlorodibromobenzenediazonium bromide , and chloro-and bromo-benzenediazonium thiocyanates into thiocyanobenzene-diazonium chlorides and bromides .
[ The following observations of Meldola || may also be mentioned , as the author 's results offer a possible explanation .
When dinitro-o-or dinitro-^-anisidine is treated with sodium nitrite in the presence of acetic acid , the nitro-group occupying a position ortho or para with respect to the amino-group is eliminated , a diazophenol ( diazo- * * * S * Professor Meldola has called the author 's attention to a French patent ( No. 315,932 ) of the Badische Aniline Company , dated February28,1902 , in which the replacement of the nitro-group and halogen by the hydroxyl-group by the action of alkalis on diazonium salts , is claimed as a technical process .
The author 's experiments show within what limits this process is applicable , and what is the probable action of the alkali .
t ' Annalen , ' 1900 , vol. 312 , p. 119 .
t ' Berichte , ' 1902 , vol. 35 , p. 888 .
S ' Berichte , ' 1896 , vol. 29 , p. 947 ; 1897 , vol. 30 , p. 2334 ; 1898 .
vol. 31 , p. 1253 ; 1900 , vol. 33 , p. 505 .
|| * Trans. Ohern .
Soc. , ' 1900 , vol. 77 , p. 1172 ; ' Proc. Chem. Soc. , ' 1901 , vol. 17 , p. 131 ; ' Trans. Chem. Soc. , ' 1901 , vol. 79 , p. 1076 ; 1902 , vol. 81 , p. 988 .
Dr. K. J. P. Orton .
[ Dec. 1 , oxide ) being formed .
In diazotising in the presence of hydrogen chloride , an ortho-nitro group is replaced by chlorine .
] The isomeric changes of the diazonium salts differ , however , somewhat from the similar changes of the phenylacylchloramines , phenyl-nitramines , \amp ; c. The latter compounds are se relatively stable , and apparently only undergo change in the presence of some agent ( catalyst ) ; the diazonium compounds , on the other hand , appear to be intrinsically labile , and in aqueous solution , at least , capable of passing into a more stable configuration .
In the latter case the nitrogen atom , bearing the wandering group , the hydroxyl group ( or , as in Hantzsch 's instances , the chlorine atom or the thiocyanate group ) , is pentad , thus , Ph. N(OH):N , whilst in the phenylacylchloramines , \amp ; c. , it is triad .
The idea at once suggests itself that in the case of the last-mentioned compounds , the first action of the catylist is to form an additive product , in which the nitrogen is pentad .
The product , in which , it should be noted , more than one negative radicle is attached to the nitrogen , is not a stable compound , and is now capable of passing into the isomeric quinone form , and thus start the transformation .
These results are also of interest , inasmuch as Hantzsch* has stated recently that he has obtained s-tribromophenylnitrosamine , CeH2Br3.NH .
NO , by adding sodium acetate to a solution of a s-tri-bromobenzenediazonium salt .
He .
describes it as a bright yellow amorphous substance , which decomposes at 85 ' .
As far as can be judged , it is this very reaction which has been studied in the course of the author 's experiments. .
The substance which is precipitated is at first glance a yellow amorphous powder , but close observation shows that long \#151 ; 1 cm .
) orange crystals are present .
These crystals are the 3 : 5-dibromo-o-d iazophenol hereafter described .
The powder is probably a hydroxy azo-condensation product .
Hantzsch does not appear to have observed that bromine is eliminated .
He also affirms ( loc , cit. ) that he obtained the nitrosamine by the cautious addition of acetic ( or other ) acid to the alkali diazotate ; in the writer 's experience , however , this always leads to the elimination of halogen .
The Transformation of s-Trichlorobenze Hydroxide .
s-Trichlorobenzenediazonium hydrogen sulphate , C6H2CI3.N(SO4H ) : In , is very easily prepared by diazotising , by means of amyl nitrite , s-trichloraniline dissolved ( or suspended ) in glacial acetic acid containing sulphuric acid .
The salt is precipitated by ether , and is purified by dissolving in methyl alcoholon adding ether to this solution the sulphate separates in small colourless lustrous prisms , often forming * .
Berichte , ' 1902 , vol. 35 , p. 2964 .
Isomeric Cha nge in Benzene Derivatives .
1902 .
] star-shaped aggregates , which are very soluble in water ( S04 found 31*0 , calculated 31 " 4 per cent. ) , s , C,.HoCl8*N ( N03):N , prepared in a similar manner , forms colourless needles .
When kept for two or three days , both salts begin to show signs of change , which are more marked in the case of the nitrate .
The latter becomes noticeably yellow , and when dissolved in water forms a yellow solution .
The initially colourless aqueous solution of the pure colourless salts becomes yellow after a few hours ; after 24 hours chloride is just recognisable in the solution .
In one experiment , 0*5 gramme of the acid sulphate was dissolved in 100 c.c. of water ; after 3 days a very small amount of a yellowish-red solid had separated from the yellow solution ; at the end of 16 days , the chloride in solution was precipitated by silver .
nitrate in the presence of nitric acid : the silver chloride weighed 005 gramme , whereas for the complete conversion of the diazonium salt into the diazophenol , 0*235 gramme of silver chloride should have been found .
An aqueous solution of s-trichlorobenzenediazonium acetate , obtained by mixing neutral solutions of the diazonium nitrate and sodium acetate ( molecular proportions ) rapidly becomes yellow and acid .
In a short time the solution becomes turbid , and after 4\#151 ; 5 hours deposits a bright yellow amorphous solid .
In an experiment , in which 1*75 gramme of the diazonium nitrate , dissolved in 150 c.c. of water , was treated with sodium acetate ( 1 mol .
) , and kept at 10\#151 ; 15 ' for 40 hours in the dark , an estimation of the hydrogen chloride in the solution showed that 54*5 per cent , of the diazonium compound had changed into the diazophenol .
When instead of sodium acetate , sodium hydrogen carbonate was used a similar change took place , but far more rapidly .
In one experiment a dilute aqueous solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate ( 3 mol .
) was added drop by drop during a period of 1 hour to a cooled solution of 1 gramme of the diazonium hydrogen sulphate .
( The bicarbonate was finally present in sufficient quantity to combine with the whole of the sulphuric acid and one-third of the chlorine present in the diazonium salt .
) After one-third of the bicarbonate had been added , and the acid converted into the normal sulphate , the solution rapidly became yellow and deposited a yellow solid .
Throughout the experiment the mixture was acid .
As soon as the whole of the bicarbonate was added , the chlorine was estimated ; it represented 54*5 per cent , of the amount which should be obtained were 1 atom of chlorine eliminated from the diazonium salt .
In another experiment , using the same quantities of diazonium salt and sodium bicarbonate , the solutions were mixed as rapidly as possible ; a copious yellow precipitate at once appeared ; the chloride in the filtrate represented 72 per cent , of 1 atomic proportion of chlorine .
Div K. J. P. Orton .
[ Dec. 1 , No 3 : h-Dichloro-o-diozophenol ( 3 : II qij/ 'V=o , is Cl contained in the yellow solutions which are obtained by any of the methods just described .
It is best prepared by adding excess of sodium acetate to s-trichlorobenzenediazonium hydrogen sulphate or nitrate .
The mixture should be kept during 40\#151 ; 50 hours in the dark ; \#151 ; in the light the solution darkens , the diazophenol decomposing .
The liquid was then filtered from the amorphous yellow solid , made strongly acid with nitric acid , and extracted four or five times with ether .
On evaporating the yellowish-brown extract , a mixture of oil and crystals remained .
In order to obtain the diazophenol , dry hydrogen chloride was passed into the ethereal extract ; this caused the hydrochloride of the dichloro-o-diazophenql , 0 ; CoH2C12 ; Js2 , HC1 , to separate in small needles .
This salt was converted into the diazophenol by treatment with a small quantity of water .
Thus prepared , the diazophenol is an orange powder , which crystallises from an ethereal solution in flattened orange prisms , which melt at 83\#151 ; 84 ' , forming a red liquid ; at 87 ' the latter decomposes .
On analysis , 0T068 gramme gave 0T618 gramme AgCl .
Cl = 37-45 .
0'2004 gramme gave 25-4 c.c. of moist nitrogen at 14 ' and 766 mm. N = 14-95 .
C6H20N2C12 requires Cl = 37-57 ; and N = 14-86 per cent. This substance is very readily soluble in all solvents except petroleum ; when dissolved in hot water .it rapidly decomposes , the yellow solution becoming brown and turbid .
It dissolves in concentrated solutions of acids , forming a nearly colourless liquid , which becomes yellow on adding water .
These acid solutions couple with alkaline solutions of / 3-naphthol .
There is no doubt that this substance is an ortho- and not a para-diazophenol , as j\gt ; -diazophenols can be easily recrystallised from hot water , whilst the ortho-compounds are decomposed by hot water .
Again , p-diazophenols are easily reduced to ^-aminophenols , but the ortho-derivatives are not reduced in a simple manner.* The amorphous yellow substances which are formed in the cases above described appear to be condensation products .
The o-diazo-phenol which is produced has the para- and one ortho-position unoccupied , and being formed in the presence of a diazonium salt and sodium acetate or bicarbonate , is under conditions which are very favourable to the production of hydroxyazo-derivatives .
A similar yellow powder is precipitated when sodium bicarbonate is added to a solution of the 3:5-dichloro-o-diazophenol .
The yellow substances * Bohiuer , ' Journ. Pratt .
Chem. , ' 1881 , [ 2 ] , vol. 24 , p. 460 .
1902 .
] Isomeric Change in Benzene Derivatives .
159 cannot be got to crystallise from any solvent ; they decompose at 85 % and in a moist atmosphere slowly give off nitrogen ; this is very noticeable when an attempt is made to estimate the nitrogen by Dumas ' method .
They do not dissolve in aqueous alkalis or acids .
Cryoscopic determinations of the molecular weight in benzene show that , whether prepared by means of sodium acetate or bicarbonate , the molecule contains three benzeneazo-groups .
There are three such compounds possible , formed by condensation either of ( 1 ) 2 mols .
of s-trichlorobenzenediazonium salt with 1 mpl .
of the diazophenol ( ( CoHaCVl^yCoC^^Q has a mol .
weight = 604 ; chloride \#151 ; 46*8 per cent. ) ; or ( 2 ) of 1 mol .
of the diazonium salt with 2 mols .
of the diazophenol ( mol .
weight = 585*5 ; chlorine = 42*2 per cent. ) ; or ( 3 ) of 3 mols .
of the diazophenol ( mol .
weight = 567 ; chlorine = 37*5 per cent. ) .
The material prepared by the use of sodium acetate has the highest percentage of chlorine , 44*7\#151 ; -44*9 ; its molecular weight was found to be 580\#151 ; 590 ; it is probably a mixture of ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) .
When bicarbonate is used , the yellow substance contains 41 *4\#151 ; 43*7 per cent , of chlorine ; its molecular weight was found to be 560\#151 ; 580 .
The Transformation of s-Tribromobenzenediazonium Hydroxide .
The transformation of s-tribromobenzenediazonium hydroxide resembles in its main features that of the s-trichloro-compound .
s-Tri-bromobenzenediazonium nitrate , when first prepared , is pure white , although Silberstein* has described it as yellow .
On keeping , it gradually acquires a yellow colour .
Solutions both of the nitrate and the hydrogen sulphate become yellow , and bromine can be detected in the liquid .
When either sodium hydrogen carbonate or sodium acetate is added to solutions of the salts , the decomposition is far more rapid .
Thus in one experiment , in which sodium bicarbonate was added to a solution containing 1 gramme of the diazonium hydrogen sulphate , 0*31 gramme of silver bromide was obtained , whereas 0*508 gramme is required for the elimination of one atom of bromine .
In the presence of sodium acetate , the solutions of the diazonium salt rapidly become yellow and turbid .
After 24 hours at 0 ' , a bulky and , at first glance , homogeneous precipitate had separated .
In one experiment when 2 grammes of the sulphate were used , 0*58 gramme of silver bromide was obtained from the filtrate from the yellow precipitate .
Careful examination of the yellow precipitate showed that it consisted of crystals completely covered and matted together by an amorphous yellow powder .
These two substances could not be separated by crystallisation from any solvent .
It was , however , found possible * ' Journ. Prakt .
Chem. , ' 1883 , [ 2 ] , vol. 27 , p. 113 .
Isomeric , Change in Benzene Derivatives .
[ Dec. 1 , to obtain the crystals free from the powder by frequently shaking up the solid with water and decanting the supernatant liquor before the light powder had had time to settle .
N2 3 : h-Dibromo-o-diazophenol ( 3:5-dibromo-o-diazoqidnone ) , The crystals , just mentioned , are the 3:5-dibromo-o-diazophenol in a state of purity .
They are long slender transparent prisms of a fine orange colour , which explode when heated at 140 ' .
0T894 gramme gave 0*2564 gramme AgBr .
Br = 57*6 .
Two cryoscopic determinations of the molecular weight in benzene solution gave the values 278*9 and 281*6 .
C6H2ON2Br2 requires Br = 57*53 per cent. , and a molecular weight of 278 .
The compound is very soluble in chloroform , benzene , ether and glacial acetic acid , and in boiling alcohol .
It is moderately soluble in boiling water , and very slightly so in cold water or petroleum .
Treatment with hot water or alcohol decomposes it .
It dissolves in con centrated acids , forming a colourless solution , and is reprecipitated by addition of water .
The solution in acids couples with alkaline solutions of / 3-naphthol .
The hydrochloride is obtained in nearly colourless needles by passing dry hydrogen chloride into a dry ethereal solution .
This substance is without doubt the ortho-diazophenol , and not the 3 :5-dibromo-p-diazophenol , which has been prepared by Silberstein ( loc. cit. ) , and which can be crystallised from hot water .
In the account given by Hantzsch , of the experiments above referred to , it is stated that on adding sodium acetate to the solution of a s-tribromobenzenediazonium salt , the whole of the latter is gradually converted into s-tribromophenylnitrosamine , CtjH2Br3 .
N H.NO , of which analyses are given : it forms an amorphous yellow powder , decomposing at 85 ' .
By passing hydrogen chloride into the ethereal solution , he obtained a hydrochloride of the nitrosamine , which is immediately decomposed by water , a property possessed by the hydrochloride of the diazophenol .
The amorphous yellow powder , obtained by the author , both by the action of sodium hydrogen carbonate on the s-tribromobenzenedia-zonium salts , and mixed with crystals of the diazophenol when sodium acetate is used , decomposes at 85\#151 ; 90 ' ( compare Hantzsch , 85 ) .
The yellow substance appears to be similar to those obtained from s-tri-chlorobenzenediazonium salts \ but determinations of the molecular weight , indicate that only two benzeneazo-groups have condensed .
In this case , however , the yellow powder certainly contained some of the diazophenol , as on passing hydrogen chloride into an ethereal solution 1902.1 Properties of the Alloys of the Gold-Silver Series .
161 of the powder , a small quantity of the hydrochloride of the last-mentioned substance separated .
[ The investigation of these intramolecular changes is being continued .
It has been found that a similar interchange of halogen for hydroxyl takes places very readily in solutions of chloro- and bromo-naphthalene-diazonium salts , even in the presence of excess of acid .
The author is of opinion that the observation of Gaess and Ammelburg , * that an aqueous solution of l-nitro-2-naphthalenediazonium sulphate yields the 1 : 2-naphthalenediazo-oxide , is an example of the type of transformation here considered .
] " On certain Properties of the Alloys of the Gold-Silver Series .
" By the late Sir W. C. Roberts-Austen , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , and T. Kirk Rose , D.Sc .
Received October 22 , \#151 ; Read December 11 , 1902 .
[ Plate 3 .
] In a former communication to the Society !
the curve of the initial freezing points of the alloys of gold and copper and some micrographic evidence as to their structure were given , and it was shown that according to the theory of solutions the alloys rich in gold should not be homogeneous after they have solidified .
The fact that they are not uniform was confirmed by analysis .
The subject has , however , more than theoretical interest , and the inference was drawn that standard gold , which consists of eleven parts by weight of gold to one of copper , is unsuitable as a material for the preparation of the trial plates by which the standard of the coinage is tested .
These trial plates according to law must contain 916'6 parts of gold and 83*3 of " alloy , " that is of some other metal , and it remained to be determined what the other metal should be .
It will be at once apparent that the alloy or mixture of the two metals must , if the cold mass is to be uniform , solidify as a whole , that is to say , that the crystals first formed should be of the same composition as the mother liquor , and this condition Can be fulfilled by isomorphous mixtures only .
It has long been recognised that the gold-silver alloys are cases of isomorphism , and Gautier , in 1896 , stated !
that the freezing-point curve of the series followed a straight line if the percentages by weight of the constituents were taken as abscissae .
This curve was re-determined by experiment , a number of alloys being made up and autographic records taken of their cooling curves by the Roberts-Austen recording pyrometer .
The results obtained * * Berichte , ' 1894 , vol. 27 , p. 2211 .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 67 ( 1900 ) , p. 105 . !
' Bull , de la Soc. d'.Encouragement , ' Oct. , 1896 .

