]\gt ; of the Processes in Solutions .
XXIII.\mdash ; The of Methylic Acetate Acids .
By F. P. WORLEY .
( Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received July 29 , \mdash ; Read December 5 , 1912 .
) A. luction .
One of the main objects in view throucrhoutD this series of studies of the operative in solutions has been to discover the nature of the which attend dissolution , particulal .
lie the extent to which substances undergo hydration when in water ; another primary object has been to unlavel the nature of the process of hydrolysis .
The evidence thus far obtained } been such as to show omena are far more complex ) is usually supposed and even to discl.edit the interpretation that it is now customary to give of them .
In Communication XII of the series , I have given an account of experiments made with improved apparatus and with extreme care of the behaviour of cane sugar towards chlorhydric and nitric acids and of the influence of certain chlorides and nitrates on the rate of change .
It was shown that the rate of hydrolysis could not be accurately expressed by any simple formula , as it was not even proportional to the concentration of the , though it was approximately so when the molecular ratio of sugar to water was not high .
Evidence was adduced to show that water as such , i.e. free water , did not play any part in the change but acted solely as solvent and that the active factor of the interaction besides the sugar was the drated acid catalyst .
A noyel method was devised whereby the apparent molecular hydration of the acid arrived at .
[ It was assulned that a certain number of molecules of water was combined with or controlled by one molecule of acid and that only the " " free\ldquo ; water acted as diluent .
The values of ] , expressing the velocities of hydrolysis when one molecular proportion of acid was used in the presence of rent numbers of molecular proportions of water , were multiplied by the total number minus of molecular proportions of water , being given a series of trial values .
The products were plotted against the total water , a curve being obtained for each value of ( see Diagram 3 and Diagram 1 , Par6 XXIII ) .
It will be seen from the diagrams that each curve rises to a maximum and then falls as the dilution is increased , the maxima Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
occurring at points corresponding to greater and greater dilution as the value of is increased .
If the of hydration increase with dilution , it is obvious that , until maximum hydration is reacbed , a particular value of can express the true degree of hydration only at one concentration , which has been taken to be that corresponding to the on the curve when it is horizontal ; in other words , when of change of the value of the product is momentarily nil .
The value of the product at each of the lnaxina is taken as the molecular hydrolytic activity of the acid ab the corresponding dilutions .
With increasing dilution the molecular hydrolytic ctivity decreases towards a minimnm , while the values of increase towards a maximum .
The values of ?
so obtained lave been intentionally called appar hydration values , as it must be nised that , they may possibly in the main rep.resent actual hydration , they arc probably dependent to a considerable extent on the balancing of opposed eHects and also on the method of expressing dilution .
oveJnber 2 , 1912 .
] it is probably far more rational to express dilntion in terms of the molecular proportions of solvent ( here free water ) to adopt the old volume method still fayoured by many chemists , yet , in the case of conc trated solutions , there is no method which is not open to objection .
A similar series of experiments with raffinose\mdash ; a sugar closely allied to cane but of higher molecular weight\mdash ; was described by Dr. Glover in munication X of the series .
Very milar v , representing the apparent degree of hydration of hydrogen chloride and chlorides of the alkali metals , were obtained by means of both , though , on using raffinose as hydrolyte , the values deduced for nitric acid and nitrates were slightly than those obtained by means of cane sugar .
By using methylic acetate as hydrolyte in place of cane sugar , Armstrong and Watson deduced apparent hydration values for a number of salts which were mnch lower than those found by means of cane The subject was further discussed in Communication VIlI and the conclusion formulated that " " hydr tion values\ldquo ; should from case to case and ) the highest values should be obtained by using hydrolytes and hydrolysts which form relatively stable hydrols in solution ( VIII , p. 109 ) .
Methylic acetate was spoken of in this communication as a " " weak hydrolyte One object in carrying out the series of experiments reported in the present communication was to verify the correctness of and Watson 's conclusions .
Another important object was to collfirm the validity of the method described above of finding the apparent molecular hydration of the acid .
As the two hydrolytes , cane sugar and raffinose , were so similar in 584 Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , character and the method of following the course of change the same , it appeared to be essential to apply the method to the case of the hydrolysis of substances of entirely different character , such as would render it possible to evaluate the course of change by a purely chemical method .
It was expected that if the conclusion provisionally formulated by Armstrong and Watson were confirmed , namely , that the apparent hydration values of salts were lower when methylic acetate was used than when cane sugar was the hydrolyte , there would be a corresponding difference in the apparent hydration values of the acid .
mentat .
The ordinary materials used were purified in the manner described in previous communications .
Methylic acetate was obtained at first from Kahlbaum but as the purchased material contained a considerable amount of impurity from which it could not be separated in a satisfactory manner by fractional distillation , I prepared the ethereal salt myself in accordance with the directions given by Wade , *subsituting methylic for ethylic alcohol .
The product had the boiling point and density characteristic of methylic acetate and also gave satisfactory results on analysis , yielding molecular proportions of acetic acid when hydrolysed by a slight excess of baryta solution .
In making the experiments , the requisite amounts of water and chlorhydric acid were weighed into a conical 200 .
Jena flask ; instead of hing out the exact amount required , it was found to be more convenient to add approximately the desired proportion of methylic acetate and then at once close the flask with a caoutchouc stopper and again weigh in order to ascertain the amount of acetate added ; correction was always made for the air displaced .
In the experiments in which hydrolysis took place so rapidly that it was necessary to carry out the titration as soon as possible after mixing the substances , the methylic acetate was weighed into a short wide test-tube suspended in the flask and the solution was heated to the required tempera- ture in the thermostat before admixture was effected ; in other cases the substances were well mixed before placing the flask in the thermostat .
The experiments were carried out at Titrations were made at intervals of 10 or 15 minutes or at longer intervals in the case of the more dilute solutions .
A dilute solution of baryta was used as alkali .
The rather large error by which such determinations are usually affected was reduced to a minimum in the following manner:\mdash ; ' Chem. Soc. Trans 1905 , p. 1656 .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
The rubber stopper used to close the flask was provided with a hole just large enough to admit the stem of the pipette and this was closed with a small glass stopper ; there was , therefore , but little chance of vapour escaping into the air on removing the subsidiary stopper when taking out the sample of liquid from the flask .
The pipette was warmed to in a tube in the thermostat before it was introduced .
In taking samples , the desired approximate quantity of the solution was sucked up into the pipette and at once run into an excess of carefully neutralised solution of sodic acetate and the determined .
In this way , the time required to remove the sample and run it into the acetate solution ( which was used in order to preyent further hydrolysis of the sample ) was reduced to a few seconds and the error of a pipette measurement was avoided .
The titrations were effected by a very slight excess of baryta solution and estimating the excess by an solution of hydrogen chloride .
The strength of the baryta solution was determined for each experiment and for the end points by uleans of a quantity of the standard chlorhydric acid used in the experiments ; this precaution is rendered very necessary on account of the change of density from day to day in the baryta solution as the temperature varies .
In all the experiments water and methylic acetate were used in the proportion of 120 molecules of the former to 1 of the latter , ether with from to 4 molecules of drogen chloride .
C.\mdash ; Deduction of Velocit , f Coeffici The velocity coefficient , , of the interaction under the differetlb conditions was deduced from the equation in which is the ] concentration of the methylic acetate and the amount hydrolysed at time .
To avoid the unwieldy equation obtained on integrating this expression , the rate of change was estimated directly by , the percentage change oainst the time and determining the tangent to the curve at per cent. by means of a black silk thread\mdash ; a method which has many .
The value of in terms of was deduced from the quantities of the substances present at equilibrium , when , and consequently when is the amount at equilibrium .
The graphic method of obtaining velocity coefficients is very much simpler 586 Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ iuly 29 , and in every way more satisfactory than that of using the complicated mathematical formula in cases in which the expel.imental error is larger than that involved in estimating the value of the tangent .
It has been usual to assume that in dilute aqueous solution methylic acetate is almost completely hydrolysed and that undel such conditions the small amount of change in a reverse direction , viz. : COOH is negligible .
As the water remains practically unchanged in amount , the interaction in such a case may be treated as a case of simple unimolecular change in which , finally , the methylic is almost completely hydrolysed .
My experiments show , however , that even at the low concentrations used a considerable proportion of the methylic acetate remains unhydrolysed when equilibrium is attained , the of hydrolysis in no experiment exceeding 95 per cent. It consequently seems imperative to take into account the reverse of etherification in the velocity coefficients .
It should be pointed out that if this reverse be neglected , the magnitude of the velocity coefficient obtained is considerably altered , though its constancy may be affected but slightly ; whence it follows that the fact that a constant value is obtained for on the assumption that the interchange is complete and proceeds as a unimolecular is no proof that this assumption is correct .
To illustrate these points , values for the velocity coefficient in the case of an experiment when the degree of hydrolysis at equilibrium was per cent. ve been deduced , both taking into account the reverse change and omitting it .
In Table I , under are given the values ( multiplied .
by ) obtained on taking into account the two interactions .
Under are given the values arrived at by the reverse change and assuming that at equilibrium the whole of the methylic acetate has been hydrolysed .
This is the procedure that has been generally followed by previous observers .
In the particular experiment , as per cent. of acetate remained unhydrolysed , the values taken as the concentration of the acetate are lower to this extent than the true values throughout the experiment .
Nevertheless , it will be observed that the values under are almost as constant as the true values under , though of considerably greater magnitude .
Under ] are given the values obtained on neglecting the reverse action and considering the actual amounts of methylic acetate present , assuming also that the action is ultimately complete\mdash ; a course sometimes adopted .
The values are fairly constant at first but fall off as the interaction proceeds .
It is very much easier to consider only the acetate thaG can be hydrolysed 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
than to estimate the total amount present ; for this reason the method by which the values under are deduced has been enerally adopted previously .
In the present series of experiments , however , as the solutions were made up by weight and practically pure methylic acetate was used and as weighed quantities were taken for titration , it has been possible to estimate the total amount of acetate left unhydrolysed after different tervals of time in each experiment .
Table I. Percenta.gechange It is , perhaps , well to call attention to these examples as an illustration of the difficulties the reduction of observations such as those undel discussion .
The data from a typical experiment are giyen in Table II .
Table II.\mdash ; Typical Experiment .
120 Molecular Proportions of 1 of , and of VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A. 2 .
F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , A gives the baryta solution equivalent to 1 .
of solution ( found by titrating from 5 to 10 ) .
CoJumnB gives the baryta solution equivaleut to the acetic acid in 1 .
of solution .
The values are obtained by deducting , the amount of baryta solution equivalent to the HC1 in 1 .
of solution , from the numbers in Column Column gives the calculated of the methylic acetate hydrolysed .
Column gives the pel.centage hydrolysis to the rates of in the following column determined from the curve .
Table III contains the velocity coefficients ( multiplied by ) deduced from the different experiments .
In Diagram 1 is shown graphically the relation of the velocity coefficients to the concentration of the chlorhydric acid , Curve A being that obtained when the concentration is expressed as the molecular proportion of chloride to 120 of water , Curve when the dilution is expressed in terms of the number of molecular proportions of water to 1 of hydrogen chloride .
Table III.\mdash ; Values of , from Experiments with 120 Molecular Proportions of , 1 of , and from to of 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
Mols .
to 1 of HC1 .
( Curve B. ) Iols .
HC1 to 120 in Degree of with the of Aeid st. The end values obtained in the experiments described are such as to show that the percentage of methylic acetate hydrolysed at the of equilibrium is not independent of the concentration of the chloride used as catalyst .
To make sure that there was a real displacement of the point of equilibrium and that the apparent lowering of the decree of hydrolysis by the presence of the hydrogen chloride was not due to the formation and escape of methylic chloride , several experiments were made in which the Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , point of equilibrium was approached from the other end , beginning with methylic alcohol , acetic acid , water and different of hydrogen chloride .
The points of equilibrium were practically the same as those obtained by hydrolysis , showing that there was an actual displacement of the point of equilibrium and an apparent change in the ratio of to as the concentration of the acid catalyst was increased .
This point will be discussed in a later section .
In Table is given in Column A the percentage of methylic acetate hydrolysed in the presence of the different amounts of hydrogen chloride indicated in the first column , whilst in Column is given the percentage of acetic acid and methylic alcohol left uncombined in the etherification experiments .
In Diagram 2 is shown graphically the degree of hydrolysis attained in the presence of different amounts of hydrogen chloride .
Table \mdash ; Change in the Percentage of Methylic Acetate Hydrolysed at Equilibrium caused by Change in the Concentration of Hydrogen Chloride .
Mols .
HC1 to 120 1912 .
] Studies of the ocesses Operative in Solutions .
imitations of that bo made Results arrived at by the treat , nent of the to the le of Mass Action .
It is now necessary to consider the adequacy of the methods used heretofore in discussing the results of experiments such as have been described .
The view has been too enerally held perhaps that the catalyst is not a necessary component of the system within which occurs but only accelerates its rate ; and it has been wrongly assumed that the position of equilibrium is not by the presence of the talyst or by alteration of its concentration .
It has there been uniyersally held that water as such enters into the interaction , no distinction been made between the water which plays an active part in the change in conjunction with the catalyst*and the water which acts only as solvent or diluent .
The mass action equations expressing the relation between the rates of hydrolysis and esterification and the concentrations of the substances and that for the conditions at have too frequently been based on the conventional chemical equations which express only the initial and final states without reference to the course of the change and the part played by the catalyst .
Thus in the case of hydrolysis it has been generally assumed that because one molecule of water ( hydrone ) is used up for every molecule of hydrolyte hydrolysed , the rate of hydrolysis is therefore proportional to the product of the concentrations of the hydrolyte and the water .
Again , in the case of the equilibrium veen nlethylic acetate , water , acetic acid and methylic alcohol , the equation has always been considered to express the facts accurately , the bracketed quantities being the molecular concentrations ( strictly speaking , the active masses ) of the substances in equilibrium .
The constancy in the ratio of to that has been belicved to persist when the relative proportions of the various substances have been altered has appeared to confirm the assumption that the active masses of the interacting substances are tly expressed by the above equation .
The fact has apparently been overlooked , however , that even though the ratio of to remain constant , it does not follow that the factor of the mass action equation .
necessarily represents one of the substances entering directly into the interaction .
It may be a factor representing merely the degree of dilution .
For the purposes of this discussion the anhydrous acid is represented as the catalyst .
In actual fact , the active agent is probably some form of hydrated compound derived irom the anhydrous acid and water .
Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Confuslon has probably arisen through the substitution of relative molecular proportions of the interacting substances for their concentrations in the above equation .
When the four substances are dissolve in a given quantity of some solvent such as acetone or when one of the interacting substances is in large excess and may be regarded as constant , the concentration of the different substances is not lost sight of ; when , however , there is no outside solvent and none of the four substances is in large excess , it is much easier to consider their relative molecular proportions .
Provided that the equation express the interaction accurately and that the active mass of each substance be proportional to its total quantity , relatiye molecular proportions may be justly substituted for concentrations .
This follows from the symmetrical nature of the equation .
Whether we express the concentration as the number of molecular proportions either in a given volume or ( b ) compared with that of one of the interacting substances or ( c ) compared with the total number of molecular proportions present , this dilution factor is the same for both sides of the equation and so does not affect it .
If , howevel\ldquo ; the water function mainly as diluent and be not strictly a factor in the interaction , the equation becomes umsymmetrical and a dilution factor must be introduced .
In Part XII the view was put forward that in the case of the hydrolysis of cane sugar the interaction was between the sugar and the hydrated catalyst , the water uncombined with the catalyst functioning merely as solvent .
It is highly probable that this is the case also in the hydrolysis of ethereal salts .
If the action of the catalyst be considered , it is well known that the velocity coefficient for the rate of hydrolysis is nearly proportional to the concentration of the catalyst when the latter varies in concentration .
This is very clearly shown by the approximate straightness of Curve A in Diagram 1 , which shows the relation of the velocity coefficient to the concentration of the chloride .
It shows , further , from the part extl'apolated to zero concentration of acid , that in the absence of catalyst the rate of hydrolysis is reduced to zero .
In other words , water alone has probably no power of effecting the hydrolysis of methylic acetate .
This argument does not , of course , preclude the view that has been adopted , that the action is between the water and a compound of the acetate with the catalyst .
It appears far more likely , however , that the interaction is between the ethereal salt and a compound of the catalyst with water , i.e. with the hydrated catalyst .
mechanism of hydrolysis will be fully discussed at a later stage ; but , for the present , let us assume that hydrolysis is effected by the interaction of the ethereal sa.lt and hydrated catalyst and that the water uncombined with the lyst functions merely as solvent and diluent .
If the proportion of the solvent ( .
the free water ) be large 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes , in it makes little difference whether we reckon concentration as the number of molecular proportions either in a iven volume or compared with a iven lUmber of molecular proportions of the solvent .
The concentrations of the interacting substances may be expressed consequently as the ratio of their molecular proportions to those of the diluent water .
The equation expressing the conditions at equilibrium thus becomes hydrated catalyst ' yhen the bracketed quantities are the relative molecular proportions of the various substances .
On simplification this becomes in which the factor is merely dilution factor and does not stand for one of the interacting substances .
Any other expression for the dilution can be substituted equally well .
The above simplified equation is thus very liable to be misinterpreted and wrong deductions have frequently been made from the results obtained by its use .
If the water be not in large excess , it is obvious that it is not legitimate to use it as a dilution factor and the equation is valid only on the improbable sumption that the four factors represent the .
substances and that the active part of each is proportional to its concentration even when the degree of concentration is high .
Since the completion of this investigation , Jones and Lapworth* have published the results of an investigation of the action of hydrogen chloride on the between ethylic acetate , water , ethylic alcohol and acetic acid .
In all their experiments the proportion of water was small and could not possibly be regarded as .
a measure of the dilution .
They considered merely relative molecular proportions and found that the value of , where rose from 4 to at least when the concentration of the chloride used as catalyst varied over wide limits .
They assumed that this variation in the value of was due to some of the water forming a hydrate of the hydrogen chloride and calculated that approximately two molecules of water were associated with each molecule of chloride present , though the existence of higher hydrates in a partly dissociated condition ' Chem. So Journ 1911 , p. 1427 .
Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , not excluded .
Apart from the improbability of the degree of hydration remaining the same and so low over large ranges of concentration , it is obvious that their conclusions can be in no way valid except on the assumption that water as such is one of the interacting substances ; that the active lnasses of each of the four substances are proportional even in strong solutions to their concentrations ; also that the active mass of the water is proportional to that part of it unassociated with the hydrogen chloride , .
proportional to the pure water present which no power to effect the hydrolysis of pure ethylic acetate .
It is obviotls that little weight cftl be attached to their conclusions .
In the following sections " " apparent hydl.ation values\ldquo ; for the hydrogen chloride will be deduced from the velocities of hydrolysis and also from the equilibrium data .
It must be pointed out , however , that although the proportion of water was always large , the values arrived at cannot be regarded as absolute , as they are dependent on the method of reckoning concentration .
Moreover , this difficulty must always exist except in the case of extremely dilute solutions , as there is no method of expressing the coucentrations and active masses of substances in concentrated solution that is free from defects .
The conditions in solutions are undoubtedly of so complex a character that the utmost must be exercised not to put too rigid an interpretation on results arrived at on any one hypothesis .
tion of Apparent Values of en the the Coefficients of the Case of cetate and the Concentration of the drogen The apparent hydration values of hydrogen chloride at different concentrations have been determined from the data of the experiments described earlier on the assumption that part of the water is associated with or controlled by the acid and that the free water acts merely as solvent .
The method used is the graphic one described in Part XII in connexion with the hydrolysis of cane .
Diagram 3 shows the process and the results obtained .
the horizontal axis are given the total number of molecular proportions of water present to one of hydrogen chloride and on the vertical axis the products of the velocity.coefficients and the molecular proportions of free water , i.e. water uncombined with the chloride , on the various assumptions as to the number of molecular proportions of water attached to the acid .
Each curve is based on the assumption that a number of molecular proportions of water equal to the number opposite the curve 1912 .
] Stnclies of the Processin have been removed from the sphere of solvent water .
This number expresses accurately the water so removed at some definite concentration which has been taken as that corresponding to the maximum on the particular cnrve when the curve is at the point horizontal .
It will be observed the maxima on the different curves correspond to different concentrations .
The Mols .
total water .
dark curve through the apices gives from the ordinates the specific molecnlar hydrolytic activity at different dilutions of the acid .
The apparent molecular hydration and molecular hydrolytic activity of the hydrogen chloride at different dilutions are given in the following table , in which are included for comparison the values deduced in the case of the hydrolysis of cane sugar ( Part XII ) .
( The hydrolytic activity values have been multiplied by to reduce them to the same unit as the 1uethylic acetate values since in their calculation the velocity coefficient used Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Table data used in the calculations are given in Table III .
A small error in any of the values of makes a considerable irregularity in the curves .
Thus , the values 354 and 443 produced ularities , which were removed if the very slightly different values 351 and 444 were substituted ; these values were consequently used instead of the mean values .
Inspection of the list of values of in Table III shows that probably they may be taken legitimately as the means .
The regularity of the curves is a confirmation of the uniformity of the results .
It will be observed that the apparent molecular hydration values are much smaller than those deduced from the rate of inversion of cane sugar .
This diH'erence will be discussed in a later section ( p. 601 ) , after dealing with the apparent hydration values of salts .
A constant value for the molecular hydration and the molecular hydrolytic activity is reached much earlier in the case of the hydrolysis of methylic acetate than in that of cane .
In this respect the results are very similar to those obtained from the hydrolysis .
cane sugar by sulphuric acid and the monobasic sulphonic acids referred to in Part XXII .
of Values Equilibrium Data .
In the section dealing with the change in the percentage of methylic acetate hydrolysed caused by changing the concentration of the chloride ( see p. 589 ) , it was shown that increase in concentration of the acid catalyst was accompanied by an increase in the proportion of methylic acetate left unhydrolysed at equilibrium .
If , therefore , the ratio of to be calculated from the equilibrium data by means of the equation on where 1912 .
] of the .
Processes Operative in tlus ratio must increase as the concentration of the chloride is increased , provided that it be assumed that the amount of solvent water ; not dinlinished by increase in the concentration of the hydrogen chloride , which could occur only if the acid were present in aqueous solution in an unhydrated condition .
As this is not the case , increase in the concentration of hydrogen chloride must undoubtedly be accompanied by an increase in the amount of water in combination with the acid and a corresponding decrease in the remaining solvent water .
By decreasing the initial ratio of the watel to the methylic acetate , a decrease in the percentage of the acetate hydrolysed , such as is observed in the experiments described above , is about .
'fhree experiments were carried out in which the ratio of water to ylic acetate varied considerably .
At the start there were approximatelv 5 , 10 , and 20 nlolecular proportions of acetate to 120 of water and 1 of chloride .
At equilibrium the percent of methylic acetate hydrolysed were approximately 80 , 68 , and 55 .
It would appear , then , that although there may possibly be an actual increase in the ratio of to ( which would mean that the etherification was accelerated to a greater extent than the hydrolysis by an increase in the concentration of the catalyst , the increase is mainly and probably entirely apparent only and , if the correct value were taken for the solvent water , the ratio of to would be constant .
Hydration values have been deduced on this last assumption from the ulibrium data on p. 590 .
It is to be noticed that the values obtained are not exactly comparable with those found in the previous section , in which the apparent hydration values are those of the in the presence of a great ) ) of the maltered -methylic acetate .
The values found from the equilibrium data are values for the various substances in solution at equilibrium , when relatively large amounts of acetic acid and methyl alcohol are present , both of which , no doubt , remove some water from sphere of solvent .
In the following calculations , the of hydrolysis at equilibrium was taken not directly from the experimental values but from the curve ( Diagram which also gives the extrapolated value for the degree of hydrolysis that would be obtained in the absence of hydrogen chloride .
From this latter value the true ratio of to is obtained .
At equilibrium 95 per cent. of the methylic acetate should be hydrolysed when no water is removed by hydrogen chloride .
As there were originally 120 molecular proportions of water to 1 of methylic acetate , we have at equilibrium of water , of acetate and of acetic acid and methylic alcohol .
Hence Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July This value for the ratio of to is used to calculate the values of the factor for the solvent water in the presence of the different amounts of hydrogen chloride .
For example , when one molecular proportion of hydrogen chloride is used we have , since the percentage of methylic acetate hydrolysed is 94.6 , ; whence the molecular portions of solvent water are found to be As molecular proportions of water were used up for the hydrolysis , the apparent hydration value for the substances in solution at equilibrium ( viz. , one molecular proportion of hydrogen chloride and approximately one each of acetic acid and methylic alcohol ) is equal to Table gives the apparent hydration values so obtained for the different concentrations of hydrogen chloride used .
Table 40 30 0 .
87 .
8 .
0.25 Column A ives the molecular proportions of hydrogen chloride present to 120 of initial water .
Column the molecular proportions of water ( initial values ) to one of hydrogen chloride .
Column gives the molecular proportions of methylic acetate at equilibrium .
Column gives the molecular proportions of solvent water calculated above .
Column gives the molecular proportions of water removed from the sphere of solvent , i.e. the apparent hydration values of the substances in solution .
1912 .
] of the ocesses Operative in Columnl gives the apparent ydration values corresponding to one molecular proportion of hydl'ogen chloride and the other substances in solution ( the approximate amounts of total water to one of hydrogen chloride being given in Column B ) .
Column gives the approximate number of molecular proportions of acetic acid and methylic alcohol to one of hydrogen chloride .
To obtain the apparent hydration values of the hydrogen chloride , we should ] lave to deduct from the nbers in Column the unknown amount of water in combination with the number of molecules of acetic acid and methylic alcohol in Column G. This , however , would no doubt be small compared with that in combination with the hydrogen chloride .
It will be observed that the numbers are than those obtained in the previous section .
The conditions are not the same , however .
In this case the methylic acetate has been displaced ( almost entirely ) by methylic alcohol and acetic acid .
The complexity of the conditions at equilibrium and the large eH'ect produced by a very small experimental error preyent being attached to the actual values obtained .
They are of such an order , however , as to confirm the explanation advanced for the change in the degree of hydrolysis with change in the concentration of the catalyst .
of Salts .
In view of the fact that lower values were obtained for the apparent hydration of hydrogen chloride from the rate of hydrolysis of ] acetate than were obtained from the experiments on the rate of inversion of cane , it appeared all the more desirable , as was stated in the introduction , to confirm the conclusions arrived at and Watson iu Part that salts had a smaller effect in the former case than in the latter , i.e. that their apparent hydration values were smaller when methylic acetate was used as the hydrolyte than when cane sugar was used .
The apparent hydration values of the chlorides of sodium , potassium and ammonium were determined by a method similar to that described in Part XII in the case of the hydrolysis of cane .
Iu the experiments the molecular proportions used were 120 of water , 1 of methylic acetate , 2 of hydrogen chloride and 2 of salt .
The values of the velocity coefficients were determined in the same way as for the acid alone .
the case of the ammonium chloride , phenolphthalein could not be used as an indicator and litmus was far from satisfactory .
The results are consequently not very trustworthy .
The results of the three e , xperiments are given in the following table .
The value of the constant obtained when the same proportion 600 Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , $ of chloride was used was 606 .
The apparent h.ydration $ values were obtained by taking the horizontal distances between the curve for the acid alone and those for the acid in the presence of the salts .
Since the velocity of hydrolysis in the presence of the salts was determined for one concentration only , the hydration values could not be determined for differe1lt concentrations .
The curves were assumed to be parallel to the acid curve at the point considered .
* The apparent molecular hydration values obtained when 60 molecular of total water were present for 1 of salt were approximately 3 for ammonium chloride and each for sodium and potassium chlorides , that for sodium chloride being slightly the larger .
The values obtained by rong and Watson were considerably larger , being 5 , 8 and 10 respectively in the presence of molecular proportions of water .
The general sion arrived at by Armstrong and Watson , however , is confirmed and the low values obtained for the salts are in complete harmony with the values obtained for the hydrogen chloride .
Table Percentage composition .
I.\mdash ; Discussion of the Apparent Hydration Values arrived at in the Preuious Sections .
The method by which the apparent hydration value of the salts was deduced in the previous section is entirely distinct from that used to calculate the corresponding values for chlorhydric acid in .
Sections and G. In the case of the salts no assumptions are necessarily made with regard to the actual cause of their observed accelerating effect on the rate of In Diagram 1 the values of the velocity coefficients for hydrolysis in the presence of the three salts are indicated by crosses .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes Operatire in hydrolysis .
The values are deduced directly from the values found experimentally for the rate of hydrolysis in the absence and presence of salts and merely express the nccelerating effect of the salt in terms of the amount of water that would have to be removed from the system in order to produce the same effect on the rate of hydrolysis .
Whilst it is believed that the accelerating effect of salts is mainly due to the concentrating effect they exercise , still the fact has never been lost sight of that their influence is of a much more complicated nature , the effect observed being the sum of various effects .
In the case of the methods of deducing the apparent hydration values of the acid , however , the assumption was made that the acid removed water from the system\mdash ; that it actually reduced the amount of solvent water .
It has already been pointed out that it is not to be expected that the values arrived at in Section would be the same as those arrived at in Section but would be larger .
The comparatively large effect that quite small differences in the experimental values used for the deduction of the apparent hydration values have on their magnitude prevents too great stress being laid on the actual alues arrived at in Sections and ; still , taking in to account the differences in the conditions under which the apparent hydration values of the acids and of the salts were determined , the similarity of the order of magnitude of the values is of a most nature .
More interesting still is the comparison between the above results and those arrived at in the case of the hydrolysis of cane sugar .
In this case , also , there was a singularly close relationship between the values arrived at for the acids and those for the salts .
There is , however , a wide difference between the values arrived at both for acids and salts in the two cases , the use of cane much higher values than when methylic acetate is employed .
The cause of this difference is not easy to locate .
It may be due to some extent to difference in the two methods of following the course of the interaction .
The polarimetric method , whilst giving extremely uniform results , is full of complexities , some of have already been dealt with in Part ; others are discussed in Part XXII .
It is not impossible that the method does not give a perfectly true record of the rate of change .
On the other hand , there is much to show that there is an actual difference due to the character and influence of hydrolytes .
The effect of substances such as methylic acetate on other substances in solution is very different from the effect of cane sugar .
The large effect that substances which have no great affinity for water , such , for instance , as propylic alcohol , with which methylic acetate may well be compared , have in reducing the solubility of salts in water would tend to show that such substances have a Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , effect on the condition of other substances in solution .
Cane sugar has an entirely different effect and it is highly probable that the actual condition of the salts and acids is different in the presence of even small amounts of acetate from what it is in the presence of cane With regard for the graphic method used to deduce the apparent hydration values of the acid , the results appear in every way to show that this form of treatment is valid in principle .
The curves in the case of the hydrolysis of methylic acetate resemble in every way those obtained when cane sugar is used , the difference in the magnitude of the apparent hydration values arrived at being in accord with the difference in the corresponding values for the salts arrived at by an independent method .
1 .
The rate of hydrolysis at C. of methylic acetate in dilute aqueous solution under the catalytic influence of chlorhydric acid has been studied with a view to determine the apparent molecular hydration of the acid by the method used in connexion with the h.ydrolysis of cane sugar ( Part XII ) and further to ascertain whether the magnitude of the apparent hydration values of the acid and of salts be dependent on the nature of the hydrolyte .
The molecular proportions of the substance used were 120 of water , 1 of methylic acetate and from to4 of hydrogen chloride ( Sections A and B ) .
2 .
It is that in no experiment did the of hydrolysis exceed 95 per cent. of the methylic acetate taken and that it is not justifiable either to adopt the usual assumption that in the presence of so large an excess of water the hydrolysis is practically complete or to treat the interaction as a case of simple unimolecular .
In the calculation of the velocity coefficients of hydrolysis , allowance has been made for the reverse change of ethelification , the equation used being in which is the initial concentration of the methylic acetate and the amount changed at time .
The rate of change corresponding to different concentrations of unhydrolysed acetate was found directly from the experimental curve , the ratio of to being found from the equilibrium data ( Section C ) .
3 .
When the initial proportions of water and methylic acetate are the same , the amount of the latter hydrolysed at equilibrium depends on the concentration of the chloride present , decreasing as the concentration of the catalyst increases ( Section D ) .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
4 .
In Section it is shown that the equation always used to express the conditions at equilibrium , viz. :\mdash ; has in the past been much misunderstood and that , even though the relation .
ship expressed hold good for different proportions of the various substances , the factor does not necessarily stand for one of the substances entering directly into the interaction but probably expresses the degree of dilution .
The view is advanced that hydrolysis is probably effected by the direct inberaction of a unit of hydrated hydrolyte with one of the hydrated catalyst , the water uncombined with the acid catalyst functioning merely as solvent .
5 .
Apparent molecular hydration values of the catalyst ( chlorhydric acid ) have been deduced from the velocity coefficients of hydrolysis by the method developed in Part XII and also from the equilibrium ata .
Corresponding values for various salts have been found from the increase they produce in the velocity coefficient , on the assumption that the increase is due mainly to their effect .
The values obtained both for the acid and for the salts are much lower than the corresponding values found when cane sugar and raifinose were used as hydrolytes .
This difference may be due to some extent to the difference in the method used of following the course of the interaction but it is probable that there is a considerable actual difference in the condition of the acid and of the salts in the presence of such different hydrolytes as methylic acetate and cane sugar ; furthermore that the hydrolytes are themselves different in character ( Sections ) .
The curves obtained in the deduction of the apparent hydration values of the acid are similar to those obtained in the case of cane sugar hydrolysis .
The apparent hydration values increase with dilution to a maximum , whilst there is a corresponding decrease to a minimum in the molecular hydrolytic activity of the acid .
The results appear to confirm in every way the validity of the method used .
With to the explanation of hydrolysis put forward in this communication and in Part XII , it should be said that it appears to be in complete agreement with all the experimental facts , many of which are not in harmony with the explanations that have been based on the ionic dissociation hypothesis .
The theory of the hydrolytic process is discussed more at length in the following communication .
VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A.

