122 On the Formation , \amp ; c. , of Carbohydrates in Monocotyledons .
The quadrantal and semi-circular series of observations both gave evidence of periodic vibrations of 115 seconds , but so sijiall that they could only be put down as giving superior limits , and nob at all as proving the existence of the couples .
Assuming that the gravitation constant in the quadrantal case is G for parallel and G ' for crossed axes , the existence of a couple enables us to find ( G - G')/ G , and the observations show that this fraction is not greater than 1/ 16500 .
Assuming that the gravitation constant in the semi-circular case is G for like parallel axes , and G ' for unlike parallel axes , ( G - G')/ G is not greater than 1/ 2850 .
The semi-circular vibration outstanding after the elimination of disturbances was much greater than the quadrantal , no doubt owing to the fact that want of axial symmetry would itself lead to a semi-circular couple ; and though an attempt was made to eliminate the effect , it was probably unsuccessful .
" Contributions to our Knowledge of the Formation , Storage , and Depletion of Carbohydrates in Monocotyledons .
" By John Parkin , M.A. , Trin .
Coll. , Camb .
Communicated by Professor Marshall Ward .
Eeceived July 16 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1898 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is divided into two parts , the first dealing with the formation of starch by assimilation in the leaves , the second with the occurrence of starch and inulins in the reserve-organs of various Monocotyledons .
The author has investigated about seventy species , belonging to all the principal groups of Monocotyledons , some of them at various different stages of growth , and finds that starch due to normal assimilation in the leaves occurs in very different amounts in different genera .
Relatively few produce much , and some form none at all , but species from most of the principal families form some starch in their meso-phyll .
On comparing the type of leaf , its position and age , the habit of the plant , and the period of normal activity , the author is led to suggest that some connection exists with the storage or non-storage of temporary starch .
Broad and cauline leaves , those of aquatic Monocotyledons , and those working at higher temperatures in the summer , seem more prone to have starch than narrow radical leaves , those of forms in dry situations , and those of spring species .
That the age of the leaf affects the question is shown by the results with Allium , a genus long known not to form starch under ordinary conditions : the Observations on the Effects of partial Thyroidectomy .
123 author finds that starch is developed even in this plant in the young leaves .
The starch of the stomatal guard cells is next examined , and the difficulty of depleting these cells discussed .
In experiments with cut leaves exposed to sunlight little or no appreciable increase of starch could be obtained .
In experiments with pieces of leaves floated on sugar solutions , cane sugar was found to produce starch far better than any other ; invert-sugar , glucose , and fructose follow next in order , and maltose is almost useless .
The necessary details of the experiments , and discussion of results and previous literature are given in the full paper .
In Part II the author deals in detail with certain inulins which he has discovered in 8'cilianutans and Gnivalis , and shows by the examination of many other genera that inulin is by no means uncommon in Monocotyledons .
The inulin of S'ciliais remarkable for its easy solubility in cold water , while that of Galanthus requires water at 80 ' C. for solution ; ordinary inulin from Helianthusand other Composite dissolves at about 50 ' C. The proofs of the inulin nature of these bodies , their reactions and mode of occurrence are worked out in detail .
Contrary to previous assumption , inulin and starch may co-exist in the same cell .
It is interesting to note that aquatic species do not store inulin , apparently , but that it is common in those inhabiting dry situations ; the author regards the concentrated solution in the cell-sap of such plants as useful in resisting drought. .
The paper concludes with a detailed examination of the behaviour of the starch and inulin in the bulb of Galanthus at various periods throughout its whole annual cycle of development , comparing the stages with those in the bulb of Narcissus .
Summaries of the literature , and illustrations , accompany the full paper .
" Further Observations on the Effects of Partial Thyroidectomy .
" By Walter Edmunds .
Communicated by Dr. Bose Bradford , E.R.S. Received October 17 , \#151 ; Read November 17 , 1898 .
( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Two years ago .
Yassale and Generali published some interesting experiments on the thyroid ; they found that excision of the four parathyroids that occur in dogs ( leaving the thyroid lobes ) was followed by symptoms practically identical with those produced by exci sion of the entire thyroid , including the parathyroids .

