94 Mr. S. Bidwell .
On the Effect of Magnetisation [ May 31 I produces a difference of potential of 38 volts between its surface and | centre , a globe of a kilometre diameter , electrified to the same electric density , reckoned according to the total electricity in any small volume ( electricity of air and of spherules of water , if there are any in it ) , i would produce a difference of potential of 38 million volts between its surface and centre .
In a thunderstorm , flashes of lightning show us differences of potentials of millions of volts , but not perhaps of i many times 38 million volts , between places of the atmosphere distant i from one another by half a kilometre .
II .
" On the Effect of Magnetisation upon the Dimensions of Iron Rings in Directions perpendicular to the Magnetisation , and upon the Volume of the Rings .
" By Shelford Bidwell , M.A. , LL. B. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1894 .
A recent communication* to the Society contained an account of some experiments relating to the effects of magnetisation upon the dimensions of two iron rings , one of which was annealed and the other hardened .
The rings had the form of short cylinders about 6 cm .
in diameter , 3 cm .
in height , and 0'4 cm .
in thickness .
The .experiments in question were concerned with the circumferential variations which took place along the lines of magnetisation ; those to be here described deal with the concomitant variations in the height of the cylinders ( width of the rings ) transversely to the magnetisation .
On the assumption that variations similar to the latter occur at the same time in the thickness of the metal , it is possible to deduce the changes in the volume of the ring which attend magnet-isation .
Fig. 1 , from a photograph , shows how the rings were prepared for the experiments .
Four brass rods were hard-soldered to the iron , two of them being in a line with a diameter , while the other two were -attached to the edges , opposite to one another , and parallel to the axis J of the ring .
The ring was inserted in a wooden case , also shown , through holes in which the four brass rods projected .
Insulated wire for carrying the magnetising current was wound over the wooden jacket .
For the new experiments the ring was placed in a horizontal posi- , tion , one of the edge rods resting upon a brass socket on the adjust- ?
able base of the instrument , and the other , which had a chisel-shaped end , actuating the lever , f To counterbalance the weight of the ring a horizontal arm , carrying a sliding weight , was fixed to the ' lower S rod .
# ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 55 , p. 228 .
t The chisel-shaped terminal piece was removable and is not shown in fig. 1 .
1894 .
] upon the Dimensions and Volume Rings .
Fig. 1 .
It need hardly be said that the experimental difficulties in the way of determining to a ten-millionth part the changes which took place in a length of less than l\#163 ; in .
were very considerable .
The annealed ring will , as before , be distinguished as Eing I , and the hardened one as Eing II .
Table I. Ring I ( annealed ) .
Ring II ( hardened ) .
Magnetising force , j c.g.s. units .
Elongations in ten-milliontlis .
1 ' Magnetising force .
Elongations .
| 1 6 | - 9 7 - 5 17 -18 18 -13*5 41 -23 47 -21 59 -21 69 -18 75 -17 82 -17 116 -13 117 -11 151 - 9 155 - 7 220 - 4 242 2*5 306 8 342 14 405 17 451 23 509 | .
23 570 27 The changes observed in the widths of the two rings ( transversely to the magnetisation ) are indicated in Table I and in the curves of fig. 2 .
It will be seen that they are quite similar in the two cases , 96 Mr. S. Bi dwell .
On the Effect of Magnetisation [ May 31 , Fig. 2 .
The curves marked " longitudinally " relate to circumferential changes , along the lines of magnetisation .
Those marked " transversely " relate to changes in the width , perpendicularly to the magnetisation .
little or no effect being produced by annealing .
Under gradually ascending forces both rings first become narrower , and then recover their original width , and ultimately become wider than when unmagnetised .
The only previous experiments that I know of relating ' to magnetic changes of dimensions in directions perpendicular to the magnetisation are those of Joule , * who used a piece of iron gas-piping 1 yd .
long and in .
in mean diameter , having an insulated wire inserted into it , and bent over the sides , so as to form a magnetising coil of H convolutions .
The greatest current he used seems to have been about 12 amperes , and the magnetising force therefore about 8 c.g.s. # Joule 's ' Scientific Papers , ' p. 263 .
1894 .
] upon the Dimensions and Volume of Iron Rings .
units .
With this he found a contraction in the length of the pipe of 7 ten-millionths , a result which agrees very well with that obtained by myself for the same small magnetising force .
As was shown in my last paper , the effects along the lines of magnetisation are very different in the two rings .
The annealed ring ( Ring I ) begins to contract circumferentially with the smallest forces , and continues to contract with the large ones ; while the hardened ring expands with small forces and contracts with large ones .
These effects are indicated in the figure by the dotted curves .
By combining the results of the old and of the new experiments we can ascertain the nature of the changes produced by magnetisation in the volumes of the rings .
If h = elongation ( + or \#151 ; ) along the lines of magnetisation , Z = elongation ( + or \#151 ; ) transversely to the lines of magnetisation , then the increment or decrement of volume when the ring is magnetised is approximately* k + 2l .
From the two sets of curves in fig. 1 corresponding values of and Z can be found , and thence the changes of volume may be deduced .
These are given in Table II and fig. 3 , which show that the volume of the annealed ring is rather suddenly diminished by a small magnetising force , passes a minimum under a force of about 50 units , # Neglecting l- and products of k and l. VOL. LVI .
H Effect of Magnetisation upon Iron Rings .
[ May 31 , Table II .
T\#151 ; - \#151 ; 1 Increments and decrements of volume Magnetising force , in ten-millionths .
in c.g.s. units .
\#151 ; \#151 ; .
Ring I ( annealed ) .
Ring II ( hardened ) .
i 10 -27 -11 20 -42 -20 30 -47 -20 40 -51 -17 60 -51 - 9 80 -48 - 2 100 -46 3 140 -42 11 180 -39 17 220 -37 22 260 -35 26 300 -32 -5 30 400 -30 40 500 1 -29 44 and then slowly increases , until , with a force of 500 units , it is about 30 ten-millionths less than at starting .
The unannealed ring also at first suffers diminution , but its original volume is recovered with a force of about 90 and with higher values is increased .
The behaviour of this latter ring may be regarded as probably similar to that of the great majority of rods and rings , the annealed ring used m these experiments being the only specimen of iron that has yet been found to contract along the lines of magnetisation with the smallest forces that produced any effect at all .
Experiments upon the volume changes produced by magnetisation have been previously made by Joule , Barrett , and Knott .
, Joule* concluded that the volume of an iron bar was altogether unaffected by magnetisation , even though the magnetising current which he employed " was quite equal to saturate the iron .
" It was at that time believed that " saturation " was produced by a force of from 80 to 100 units , and , assuming that Joule 's force was of about that value , an inspection of the curve for unannealed iron in fig. 3 will show the probable reason of his having failed to detect any change of volume .
There is , in fact , none at all with a force of about 90 units .
Barrett , f experimenting in the same manner as Joule , " enclosing the bars in a vessel of water terminating in a capillary tube , and * Joule 's * Scientific Papers , ' p. 236 .
t ' Nature , ' vol. 26 , p. 485 .
' 1894 .
] On obtaining a Unidirectional Current to Earth .
surrounding the vessel by a powerful magnetising helix , " also obtained a negative result , perhaps for the same reason .
Knott's* experiments were made with hollow iron tubes , 45'7 cm .
in length .
3-84 cm .
in external diameter , and of different bores , ranging from 07 cm .
to 319 cm .
" Each tube was closed below , and into the upper end a nut screwed tightly , through a perforation in which issued a fine capillary glass tube .
The nut was adjusted under water , so that the whole of the interior space of the metal tube was filled with liquid , and also part of the glass tube .
When the tube was set vertically in the heart of the magnetising coil , the changes of volume were measured by the motions of the liquid meniscus in the capillary tube .
" " A few experiments were made on the external change of volume of a few of the tubes , which were enclosed in a thin-walled brass tube .
The brass tube yielded because of its thinness , so that the results were not certain .
But there was no doubt that with the specimens of iron tried there were large changes of volume .
" The changes observed by Knott in the interior volume appear in the case of a tube of large bore to have been of the same nature as those in my unannealed ring ' ; while with a tube of smaller bore they rather resembled the changes exhibited by the annealed ring .
His published investigations are , however , only of a preliminary character , and it is not at present possible to make a satisfactory comparison between his results and my own .
But he was undoubtedly the first to show that magnetisation is generally attended by considerable changes of volume .
III .
" Note on the Possibility of obtaining a Unidirectional Current to Eartli from the Mains of an Alternating Current System .
" By Major P. Cardew .
Communicated by Lord Kelvin , P.Tt .
S. Received May 10 , 1894 .
In carrying out some tests on the high-pressure alternating current system of the Metropolitan Electric Supply Company Ltd. , of a combination intended to act as an indicator of leakage to earth , the existence under certain conditions of an excess of current in one direction to earth by leakage through the dielectric of the cables , or through small faults therein , has been demonstrated .
Ihe combinations and connexions used are shown in fig. 1 , where A is the alternating current generator , Mi and M2 the distributing mains , TT the transformers , B a battery of a few Leclanche cells , G a * ' Edin .
Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1891 , p. 315 ; 1892 , pp. 85 , 249 ; 'Brit .
Assoc. Rep. , ' 1892 , p. 659 .
The quotations-are from the latter .
H 2

