485 Contributions to our Knowledge of the Poison Plants of Western Australia .
By E. A. Mann , Government Analyst , and W. H. Ince , Ph. D. , F.I.C. ( Communicated by Professor J. Norman Collie , F.R.S. ) ( Abstract.)* The# State of Western Australia has for many years had an unenviable reputation by reason of the large numbers of indigenous plants which , by their poisonous properties , have caused heavy losses amongst'cattle and other varieties of stock .
At the present time these losses are estimated by the Agricultural Department at about \#163 ; 15,000 to \#163 ; 20,000 per annum .
Mr. Jas .
Drummond , in 1842 , was the first to make a comprehensive report on these plants .
Since then other references may be found from time to time .
In July , 1895 , the West Australian Government Bureau of Agriculture proposed to initiate a full enquiry into the properties of these plants , and placed the matter in the hands of Mr. S. S. Dougall ( Municipal Chemist ) .
Mr. Dougall 's report is to be found in the ' Journal of the Department of Agriculture of Western Australia , ' December , 1900 .
He reports that every effort to detect the presence of an alkaloid in the " York Road " and " Box " poison plants had been unsuccessful .
In 1899 the Western Australian Department of Agriculture sent specimens of these plants , together with the " Heart Leaf , " to Professor Balfour , at Edinburgh , by whom they were forwarded to Professor Stockman , of the University of Glasgow , for chemical examination .
Professor Stockman attributed the toxic principle to a substance belonging to the saponin series . !
* In 1902 , samples of several of these plants were again sent to England by the Department of Agriculture , and submitted to Professor Dunstan , F.R.S. , of the Imperial Institute , for examination .
A report was received ( 1905 ) on one only of the plants ( the " Narrow Leaf " ) , in which Professor Dunstan stated that , by extraction with alcohol , he obtained " a yellow crystalline substance , probably identical with , or closely related to , quercitrin , the glucoside found in the bark of Quercus tinctoria .
" As far as the present authors are concerned , the chemical investigation was * The full paper was communicated in two parts :\#151 ; Part I , dealing with Cygnine , was received February 14 , 1906 , and read February 22 , 1906 .
Part II , dealing with Lobine , was received November 5 , 1906 , and read December 13 , 1906 .
+ 'Journal of the Department of Agriculture , Western Australia , ' December , 1900 .
Mr. Mann and Dr. Ince .
[ Feb. 14\#151 ; Nov. 5 , begun by one of them in 1897 , and continued intermittently for some years ; it was not till 1905 , however , that a systematic examination of these plants was commenced in the Government Laboratory .
Isolation of the Alkaloid from the " York Road " Poison Plant , Gastrolobium calycinum .
Cygnine , C19H22N2O3 .
One pound of the powdered plant was extracted with 76-per-cent , alcohol , rendered slightly acid with acetic acid .
The bright green percolate was evaporated at 50 ' C. , and the residue treated with 1-per-cent , sulphuric acid , filtered and the filtrate cleared with lead acetate , the excess of lead being removed by means of sulphuretted hydrogen .
The cleared solution was neutralised and precipitated with tannic acid , the precipitate was collected and mixed with freshly prepared lead hydrate .
This mixture was then carefully dried below 50 ' C. and extracted with hot 70-per-cent , alcohol .
The alcoholic solution was evaporated and made acid with hydrochloric acid .
From the solution a crop of colourless crystals separated .
These were purified by recrystallisation .
On injection into a guinea-pig , however , they exhibited no toxic action .
In the next experiment 10 lb. of the powdered plant were extracted with alcohol and treated as before , but with this difference , that in none of the operations was the temperature allowed to rise above 30 ' C. The result was an indefinite crystalline mixture that under the microscope consisted of needle-shaped and cubical crystals .
These were separated by careful solution in alcohol and evaporation in vacuo .
( The cubical crystals are only slightly soluble in alcohol .
) By this means a hydrochloride that crystallised in fine acicular crystals was obtained .
That it possessed toxic properties was proved by the fact that one-tenth of a grain killed a guinea-pig in seven minutes .
The cubical crystals , mentioned above , were often met with in later investigations ; they are colourless , very soluble in water , but only slightly so in alcohol .
They contain no nitrogen or chlorine and possess faintly acid properties .
The mean of two analyses gave:\#151 ; C = 68*7 and H = 8-1 .
Calculated for Ci2H1603 , C = 69'2 , H = 7*7 .
It seems probable that this substance is a decomposition product of the alkaloid , for whenever , during the extraction of the plant , a high temperature ( 100 ' C. ) had been used for evaporation , the cubical crystals either preponderated or were the only crystalline substance obtained .
Moreover , on warming the acicular crystals with water , for the purpose of recrystallisation , the result was always the same , an increasing crop of the cubical crystals and a non-crystallisable brown substance .
The acicular crystals were the hydrochloride of a nitrogenous substance , 1906 .
] On the Poison Plants of Western Australia .
and they must be kept dry , otherwise they slowly decompose ; moreover , in their preparation from the plant , it is absolutely necessary that in none of the operations should the temperature be raised above 30 ' C. The free alkaloid is still more unstable , and , when set free from the hydrochloride by means of ammonia , is uncrystallisable and decomposes readily .
Hydrochloride of the Alkaloid.\#151 ; The acicular crystals , when obtained pure , were analysed .
The mean of seven analyses gave the following results:\#151 ; C = 62*6 , H = 6*6 , FT = 7*9 , Cl = 10*5 .
Calculated for C19H22N203HC1 , C = 62*9 , H = 6*3 , N = 7*7 , Cl = 9-8 .
The salt is not very soluble in water , 100 c.c. dissolving T932 grammes at 15 ' C. The aqueous solution gives the usual alkaloidal reactions .
From its chemical composition , behaviour , and physiological effect , this substance seems to be new to science and has been named " Cygnine."* The gold salt was prepared by allowing a solution of the hydrochloride in alcohol , together with chloride of gold , to evaporate It crystallises in yellow needles , m. p. 220 ' C. , with decomposition .
On analysis it yielded the following results:\#151 ; mean of six analyses , C = 34-0 , H = 3-5 , N = 4*5 , Cl = 21*0 , Au = 29*7 .
Calculated for C19H22N203HAuCl4 , C = 34*3 , H = 3-5 , N = 4 2 , Cl = 21*3 , Au = 29 5 .
The gold salt is fairly stable in a dry atmosphere , but gradually decomposes under the influence of light and moisture .
Cygnic Acid , C10H10O4.\#151 ; This acid was obtained from the lead precipitate obtained during the clearing of the alcoholic extracts .
The precipitate was suspended in water , and treated with excess of sulphuretted hydrogen , and filtered .
The solution was treated with barium hydrate , the resulting brown precipitate washed with alcohol , and decomposed with ammonium sulphate , filtered , and the filtrate evaporated on a water-bath .
The residual crystalline mass was dissolved in a small quantity of water , reprecipitated as a crystalline powder by alcohol .
This redissolved in water and , evaporated vacuo , gave large colourless needles , which decomposed on heating .
On analysis they gave:\#151 ; mean of three analyses , C = 52,0 , H = 7*5 , N = 12*5 .
Calculated for CioH804(NH4)2 , C = 52*6 , H = 7 0 , N = 12 3 .
From the ammonium salt the barium salt was prepared ; on analysis it gave Ba = 410 , Ci0H8O4Ba = 41'6 of Ba .
Attempts to prepare the pure acid from the barium salt in dilute sulphuric acid only gave a colourless amorphous residue .
The acid is precipitated by lead , barium and silver salts .
The silver salt easily reduces on heating , forming a mirror .
Gastrolobic Acid , C7H10O5.H2O.\#151 ; It was noticed that a flocculent yellow * Western Australia was originally known as the Swan River Settlement , and a black swan is still the emblem of the State .
Mr. Mann and Dr. Ince .
[ Feb. 14\#151 ; Nov. 5 , precipitate was formed during that part of the process of clearing the alcoholic percolates from the powdered plant , which was partly effected by blowing air through the liquid to get rid of excess of sulphuretted hydrogen .
This precipitate , after repeated recrystallisation from water and alcohol , and treating with decolourising agents , still remained yellow .
It is soluble in alkalies with a deep yellow colour .
The silver salt is a faint cream-white precipitate .
The free substance contains no nitrogen of sulphur .
It is a very weak acid , for the ammonium salt ( red-yellow tufts of needles ) decomposes in the air , losing ammonia and reverting to the original acid .
The sodium salt is more stable ( red-yellow tufts of needles ) .
The acid decomposes without melting on heating .
The mean of three analyses , C = 43'5 , H = 6*3 , H20 = 10'7 .
Calculated for C7H10O5H2O , C = 43*7 , H = 6*3 , H20 = 9*4 .
The sodium salt gave Na = 19*6 .
Calculated for C7Hio06Na2 , Na = 19*4 .
Gastrolobin , a vegetable gelatinoid.\#151 ; In clearing the syrupy percolate from the sulphuric acid extraction , it was noticed that , after the addition of lead acetate , the solution became quite limpid .
To isolate the mucilaginous principles , the lead precipitate was washed , suspended in water , and decomposed with sulphuretted hydrogen .
The filtrate had regained its viscous .character .
Absolute alcohol precipitated a flocculent substance , which was .soluble in water .
The substance does not reduce Fehling 's solution and does not contain nitrogen or sulphur .
The aqueous solution is precipitated by tannic acid , lead acetate , dilute sulphuric acid , and sodium carbonate .
The substance was purified by solution in water and reprecipitation with alcohol .(five times ) .
An analysis was made : C = 44'2 , H = 6*0 ; C6H10O5 requires C = 44'4 , H = 6'2 .
The substance was oxidised with nitric acid , no indications of saccharic , oxalic , or tartaric acids were given , but it yielded the pyrrol test for mucic acid .
The substance probably belongs to that ill-defined family of vegetable carbohydrate gelatinoids , of which agar-agar is the best known member .
The body is apparently identical with a similar substance described by Professor Stockman in his report .
Cygnose , CgH^Oe.\#151 ; After the removal of the gastrolobin by means of lead acetate , the limpid solution gave tests with phenylhydrazine and Fehling 's solution that pointed to the presence of a sugar in the solution .
It was found quite impossible to obtain a pure sugar from the solution .
The .osazone was therefore prepared in the ordinary way .
It can be crystallised from alcohol in the form of slender yellow needles , m. p. 179 ' C. The mean of four analyses gave C = 60 0 , H = 6*3 , N = 15*7 .
Calculated for C6H10O4(N2H.C6H5)2 , C = 60-3 , H = 61 , N = 15*6 .
The sugar itself seems to be optically inactive both before and after inversion .
It is not fermented by yeast .
1906 .
] On the Poison Plants of Western Australia .
489 In view of the presence of saponin , quercitrin , or allied bodies in plants of this group , reported by Professors Stockman and Dunstan , special search was instituted for these two bodies , but with negative results .
Toxic Action of Gygnine.\#151 ; During the course of the research , the poisonous nature of the products obtained was from time to time established .
With cygnine hydrochloride the following tests were made , with the assistance of Doctor Blackburne , Government Bacteriologist .
One-tenth of a grain of the hydrochloride dissolved in a few minims of water , and injected subcutaneously into a guinea-pig weighing 568 grammes , killed the animal in 7 minutes .
One-twentieth of a grain killed another guinea-pig ( 348 grammes ) in 22 minutes .
Confirmatory evidence was also obtained by an experiment on a sheep .
Seven grains of the salt in aqueous solution was injected into a sheep weighing 50 to 60 lbs. The first spasm was manifested 5 minutes after injection ; in 6 minutes the animal fell to the ground in a rigid condition , and was subjected to renewed spasms up to 12 minutes after injection , when death ensued .
The following is an extract from Dr. Blackburne 's notes on the first experiment:\#151 ; " After remaining quiet for 2 or 3 minutes it became rigid , with head stretched forward , then returned to normal , but in a minute or so rapid convulsions came on .
The teeth could be heard to shut with a snap , the body became rigid , but there was no obvious opisthotonos .
These spasms occurred three or four times in 7 minutes ; the animal was quite dead .
A post-mortem examination was immediately made .
There was marked venous engorgement throughout the parenchymatous organs and the lungs , and all the large veins were much dilated .
There was no local reaction at the point of injection .
The heart was greatly overfilled , every chamber being much distended with dark blood .
One hour and a-half afterwards , the heart ( still in situ ) responded to stimuli .
Death was due evidently to asphyxia , probably secondary to convulsions .
It would appear from this that the poison belongs to that group of which the principal one is strychnine .
" Isolation of the Alkaloid from the " Box " Poison , Oxylobium parviflorum .
Lobine , C23H31N3O4 .
Experience having been gained in the examination of the " York Boad " plant , the same kind of treatment was adopted in this case .
The temperature throughout the whole investigation was kept as low as possible , never being allowed to rise above 35 ' C. By this means a crystalline hydrochloride was obtained .
This salt 490 On the Poison Plants of Western Australia .
crystallised in needles , was very hygroscopic , and decomposed when its aqueous solution was heated above 35 ' C. , a substance crystallising in cubes being formed ; in spite of its hygroscopic character , it is but sparingly soluble in water ( less than 1 per cent. ) .
Its toxic action was shown by injection of a guinea-pig : one-tenth of a grain killed in five minutes .
The symptoms were similar to those caused by cygnine .
The alkaloid itself was only obtained in a semi-crystalline condition by very careful spontaneous evaporation of the alcoholic solution in the dark ; as a rule , it remained as an amorphous substance resembling isinglass .
It decomposed on heating .
An analysis gave the following results ( the mean of four analyses ) :\#151 ; C = 67*1 , H = 7*7 .
, 1ST = 102 .
Calculated for C23H31N304 , C = 66-8 , H = 7*5 , N = 10*2 .
The gold salt was prepared as an amorphous yellow precipitate ; it decomposes on exposure to light and moist air , and melts at about 100 ' C. It is freely soluble in alcohol , but sparingly so in water .
On analysis , the mean of five analyses gave C = 36*3 , H = 4*4 , N = 5'5 , Au = 26T , Cl = 19*0 .
Calculated for C23H31N304 , HAuC14 , C = 36*7 , H = 4*25 , N = 5*6 , Au = 261 , Cl = 18*9 .
This new alkaloid has been named " Lobine " In nearly all its characteristics it resembles cygnine , but it is more stable , for the free alkaloid was isolated .
Like cygnine , its hydrochloride , on heating , yields a non-nitrogenous substance , crystallising in cubes , and a nitrogenous uncrystallisable compound .
These cubical crystals are fairly soluble in water , very soluble in alcohol , but insoluble in ether .
They melt without decomposition at 107 ' C. They are non-nitrogenous and faintly acidic .
The mean of two analyses was C = 63'3 , H = 8'4 .
Calculated for C9HHO3 , C = 63'5 , H = 8-2 .
Isolation of Malic Acid from " Box " Poison Plant .
The lead precipitates obtained during the clearing operations in the isolation of the alkaloid were treated with sulphuretted hydrogen .
From the filtrate an acid was obtained that gave a white amorphous precipitate with silver salts ; a white , cloudy precipitate , heavy on boiling with calcium hydrate ; and a precipitate with lead salts .
The acid solution was neutralised with ammonia , treated with alcohol to precipitate mucilaginous matter , and evaporated to dryness .
Deliquescent crystals resulted .
These were then heated on a water-bath with excess of lime water , when a crop of crystals gradually deposited .
The free acid prepared from this salt was very soluble in water .
The mean of two analyses gave C = 35*8 , H = 4'G .
Calculated for C4H606 , C = 35'8 , H = 4*5 .
From this and the properties of the acid it is probably malic acid .
The calcium salt was also analysed , found Observations on the Life-history of Leucocytes .
Ca = 20*9 .
Calculated for ( C4H505)2Ca .
H20 , C = 21*0 .
The free acid melts at about 100 ' C. Examination for Carbohydrates.\#151 ; Sugars ^seemed to be absent .
A small quantity , however , of a mucilaginous carbohydrate similar to gastrolobin was separated .
Owing to the reported presence of quercitrin and saponin bodies , by Dunstan and Stockman respectively , special search was made for these bodies , but with negative results .
Observations on the Life-history of Leucocytes .
Part II.\#151 ; On the Origin of the Granules .
By C. E. Walker , Assistant-Director of the Cancer Research Laboratories , University of Liverpool .
( Communicated by Prof. C. S. Sherrington , F.R.S. Received August 2 , 1906 , \#151 ; Read February 7 , 1907 .
) [ Plate 5 .
] The granules that are so frequently found in leucocytes* generally seem to lie scattered quite irregularly in the cytoplasm of the cell in which they occur .
It is possible , in the case of the leucocytes found in the spleen , lymphatic glands , and the blood of mammalia , that there never is any ordered arrangement of the granules .
In the bone-marrow , however , where leucocytes containing granules are often extremely numerous , a section of properly preserved material will show that the granules in a large proportion of these cells are arranged in a more or less definite manner .
The granules in these are , as a rule , oval in shape , and are seen to lie in sequence close to each other , so that a line drawn through their long axes would appear as a thread or wire coiled up irregularly in the cytoplasm of the cell ( fig. 1 ) .
Given this line connecting them , the granules would exactly simulate beads threaded on a wire bent into irregular curves , and put into a small spheroidal space .
There are many gradations in the regularity of this arrangement of the granules .
It varies from the mere suggestion of some of them having been strung together to very definite order , and the joining of several end to end \lt ; fig2\gt ; There are , again , other cells in which a large number of the granules are * As in a previous communication ( w Observations on the Life-history of Leucocytes , " 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 78 , p. 53 ) , the term " leucocyten is used in the widest possible sense , and is intended to include all the wandering nucleated cells of the body .
VOL. LXXIX.\#151 ; B. 2 N

