320 Constants of Explosion of Cordite and of Modified Cordite .
By Robert Robertson , M.A. , D.Sc .
( Communicated by Col. Holden , R.A. , F.R.S. Received January 10 , \#151 ; Read February 8 , 1906 .
) ( Abstract .
) Objects of the Investigation.\#151 ; These were to determine , under the conditions of pressure obtaining in a gun , the constants of explosion of cordite and of modified cordite , with special reference to the effects produced by the nonexplosive ingredients , mineral jelly and acetone .
The large increase in the percentage of guncotton which characterises modified cordite causes the retention of a greater quantity of volatile matter than was found in the older cordite ; the nature of this volatile matter and its effects on the constants of explosion are examined .
Apparatus and Procedure.\#151 ; The bomb , made to the design of Colonel Holden , F.R.S. , at the Royal Gun Factory , had a chamber capacity of 128'32 c.c. , was made of gun steel of about 3'3 cm .
in thickness , and was fitted with arrangements for obturation and electrical insulation of the firing-pin and for drawing off the gases , which worked well in practice ( diagram accompanies paper ) .
The calorimeter and method of ascertaining the water equivalent of the apparatus are described ( diagram ) , as are also the procedure when a shot is fired ( diagram ) and the means adopted for collecting and measuring the gases evolved ( diagram ) .
Residts .
The results are embodied in a number of tables and include analyses of the explosive and of the volatile matter contained in it , the calories per gramme ( water liquid and water gaseous ) , analyses of the gases evolved , the theoretical temperature of explosion ( on the basis of the alteration of specific heat of the gases according to the data of Mallard and Le Chatelier ) , the theoretical pressure and the heat of formation of the explosives from the elements at constant pressure .
Calculations of the heat developed by the explosive are made from the heats of formation of the constituents of the explosive and products of its decomposition , and it is shown that the results so obtained are in good agreement with the actual calorimetric results .
For the purpose of this calculation a special determination of the constants of Waltham Abbey guncotton was made .
Consequent on the change in composition , from cordite to modified cordite , Constants of Explosion of Cordite and of Modified Cordite .
321 the following are among the differences brought out , namely , a decrease in heat of 200 calories , and in temperature of explosion of 300 ' C.\#151 ; facts which have a bearing on the decreased erosion found with the latter explosive\#151 ; an increase in volume of gas and changes in the character of the gases .
The effect of the presence of mineral jelly in both natures of cordite is examined , as to the great diminution of heat , increase in volume of gases , etc. , that result .
In a similar way the effect of the varying quantities of volatile matter found in modified cordite is investigated as to the constants of explosion .
It is shown that in the modified cordite actually made the water in the volatile matter is practically constant , variations being due to acetone retained .
Decrease in heat evolved , increase in gases and differences in composition of these gases due to the presence of acetone , are some of the results brought out in this part of the work .
Note is also made of the alterations in the constants of explosion due to increasing the density loading from 0*1 to 02 .
0 VOL , LXXIX.\#151 ; A. Z

