XV .
Observations upon Luminous Animals .
By J. M acatne:yi , Esq. Communicated by Everard Hlome , Esq. F R. S. Read May 17th , 18io .
T1 E property which certain animals possess of emitting light , is so curious and interesting , that it has attracted the attention of naturalists in all ages .
It was particularly noticed by ARISTOTLE and PLINY amongst the ancients , and the publications of the different learned societies in Europe , contain numerous memoirs upon the subject .
Notwithstanding the degree of regard bestowed upon the history of lumi nous animals , it is still very imperfect ; the power of producing light appears to have been attributed to several creatures which do not possess it ; some species which enjoy it in an eminent degree , have been imperfectly described or entirely unobserved ; the organs which afford the light in certain animals have not been examined by dissection ; and lastly , the explanations that have been given of the phenomena of animal light , are unsatisfactory , and in some instances palpably erroneous .
As this subject forms an interesting part of the history of organized beings , I have for some years availed myself of such opportunities as occurred for its investigation .
Having cormmunicated the result of some of my researches to the Right Honourable Sir JoSEP BANKs , he immediately offered me his assistance with that liberality , which so eminently distinguishes him as a real lover of science .
I am indebted to him for an inspection of the valuable journal he kept during his voyage with Captain COOK ; for permission to copy the original drawings in his possession , of those luminous animals discovered in both the voyages of COOK ; and for some notes upon the luminous appearance of the sea , that were presented to him by Captain HORSBURG , whose accuracy of observation is already known to this learned Society .
In the following paper , I shall first examine the grounds on which the property of showing light has been ascribed to certain animals , that either do not possess it , or in which its existence is questionable .
I shall next give an account of some luminous species , of which some have been inaccurately described , and others quite unknown .
I shall endeavour to explain from my own observations , and the information communicated to me by others , many of the circumstances attend. .
iig the luminous appearance of the sea .
I shall then describe the organs employed for the production of light in certain species , ; and , lastly , I shall review the opionions which have been entertained respecting the nature and origin of animal light , and relate the experiments I have made for the purpose of elucidating this part of the subject .
The property of emitting light has been reported to belong to several fishes , aore particularly the mackarel , the moonfish ( tetraodon mola , ) the dorado , mullet , sprat , &amp;c. Mr. BAJON observed during the migration of the dorados , &amp;c. that their bodies were covered with luminousI points .
These however proved upon examination o be minute spherical particles that adhered to the suriace of these fishes ; and , w59 he adds , appeared to be precisely the same sort of points that 'tumninated the whole of the sea at the time .
They were therefore in al probability the minute kind of medusa , whichk I shall have occasion to describe hereafter .
GoDEHEU DE RIVILLE states , in a paper sent to the Academy of Sciences at Paris , that on opening the scomber pelamis while alive , he found in different parts of its body an oil which gave out much light : but it should be observed , that RIVILLE had a particular theory to support , for which this fact was very convenient , and that other parts of his memoir bear marks of inaccuracy .
It may be added , that if the oil of fishes were usually luminous , which RIVILLE supposed , it would be almost universally known , instead of resting on a solitary observation .
As far as I am able to determine from what I have seen , the faculty of exhibiting light during life does not belong to the class of fishes .
It appears probable , that some fishes may have acquired the character of being luminous , from evolving light soon after death .
Somn.e species of lepas , murex , and chama , and some starfish have been said to possess the power of shining ; and the assertion has been repeated by one writer after another , but without quoting any authority .
BRUGUEIRE upon one occasion saw , as he supposed , common earth worms in a luminous state ; all the hedges were filled with them ; he retiarked that the light resided principally in the posterior part of the body.* FLAUGERGUES pretended to have seen earth worms luminous in three instances ; it was at each time in October ; the body cshone at every part , but most brilliantly at the genital *.org'ans .
Notwithstanding this concurrence of testimony , it is next to impossible , that animals so frequently before our eyes as the common earth worm , should be endowed with so remark-able a property , without every person having observed it .
If they only enjoyed it during the season for copulation , still it could not have escaped notice , as these creatures are usually found join'dc og to the-r in the most frequented paths , and in garden walks .
In different systems of natural history , the property of shining is attributed to the cancer pulex .
The authorities for this opinion are HABLITZL , and THULES and BERNARD .
The former observed upon one occasion , a cable that was drawn up from the sea exhibit light , which upon closer inspection was perceived to be covered by these insects.-t TnULES and BERNARD reported that they met with a number of this species of cancer on the borders of ' a river , entirely luminous .
, I am nevertheless disposed to question the luminous property of the cancer pulex , as I have often had the animal in my possession , and never perceived it emit any light .
The account given by LINNEUS of the scolopendra phosphorea , is so improbable and inconsistent , that one might be led to doubt this insect 's existence , particularly as it does not appear to have been ever seen , except by EKEBERG , the Captain of an East Indiaman , froam women m LINNEUS learnt its bistory .
I now proceed to the description of those luminous animals that have been discovered by the Right Honourable Sir JosEPrI BANKS , Captain HORSBURG , and myself .
On the passage from Madeira to Rio de Janeiro , the sea was observed by Sir JOSEPH BANKS to be unusually luminous , flashing i many parts like lightning .
He directed some of the water to be hauled up , in which he discovered two kinds of animals that occasioned the pha:nonenon ; the one , a crustaceous insect which he called the cancer fulgens ; the other , a large species of medusa , to which he gave the name of pellucens .
The cancer fulgens bears some resemblance to the cornion .
shrimp ; it is however considerably less , the legs are furnlished with numerous seta .
The light of this animial , which is very brilliant , appears to issue from every part of the body .
The medusa pellucens measures about six inches across thei crown or unmbella ; this part is marked by a number of opake lines , that pass off from the center to the circumferene .
The edge of the umbella is divided into lobules , which suc ceed each other , one large and two small ones alternately .
From within the margin of the umbella , there are suspended a number of long cord-shaped tentacula .
The central part of the animal is opake , and furnished with four thick irregularly shaped processes , which hang down in the midst of the tentacula .
This zoophyte is the most splendid of the luminous inhabitants of the ocean .
The flashes of light emitted during its contractions , are so vivid as to affect the sight of the spectator .
In the notes communicated to Sir JosEPH BANKS by Captain Ho1sBuRG , he remarks that the luminous state of the sea between the trops , is gnerally accolpanied with the appearance of a goeat number of marine animals of various kinds upon the surace of the water : to many of which he does not , however , attribute the property of shining .
At other times , when the water which gave out light was examined , it appeared only to contain small particles of a dusky straw colour , which dissolved with the slightest touch of the finger .
He likewise observes , that in Bombay , during the hot weather of May and June , he has frequently seen the edges of the sea much illuminated by minute sparkling points .
At s1un rise on April 12 , 1798 , in the Arabian sea , he perceived several luminous spots in the water , which conceiving to be animals , he went in the boat and caught one .
It proved to be an insect somewhat resembling in appearance the wood louse , and was about one third of an inch in length .
When viewed with the microscope , it seemed to be formed by sections of a thin crustaceous substance .
During the time that any fluid remained in the -animal , it shone brilliantly like the fire fly .
In the month of June in the same year , he picked up another luminous insect on a sandy beach , which was also covered : with a thinslell , butt itwa a different shape , and a larger size thatn the animal taken in the Arabian sea .
By comparing the above description with an elegant pen and ink drawing which was made by Captain HoRSUROv , and accompanied h1is paper , I have no dou.bt that both these insects were mo0noculi ; the first evidently belongs to the genus lirnulus of MULLEr\ ' ; I shall therefore beg leave to -distinguish it by the name of limulus noctilucus .
My pursuits , and the state of myhealth , ha'ting frequently Mm2q 630 led me to the coast , I have had many opportunities of making observations upon the animals which illuminate our own seas .
Of these I have discovered three species : one of which is a beroe not hitherto described by authors ; another agrees so nearly with the medusa hemispherica , that I conceive it to be the same , or at least a variety of that species ; the third is a minute species of medusa , which I believe to be the lumirinous animal , so frequently seen by navigators , although it has never been distinctly examined or described .
I first met with these animals in the month of October 1804 , at Herne Bay , a small watering place upont the northern coast of Kent .
Having observed the sea to be extremely luminous for several nights , I had a considerable quantity of tih water taken up .
When perfectly at rest , no light was ernitted , but on the slightest " agitation of the vessel in which thie w , at .
, r was contained , a brilliant scintillation was perceived , particularly towards the surface ; and when the vessel was suddenly struck , a fash of light issued from the top of the water , in consequenxce of so many points shining at the same moment .
When any of these sparkling points were removed from the water , they no longer yielded any light .
They were so transpa ' rent that in the air they appeared like globules of water .
They ' I.ere more minute than the head of the smallest pin .
Upon .
; the slightest touch , they broke and vanished from the sight .
Having strained a quantity of the lunmin-ous water , a great number of these transparent corpuscles were obtained upon the cloth , and the water which had been strained , did not afterwards exhibit the least light .
I then put some sea watter that had been rendered particularly clear , by repeated fil-Trations , into a large glass , and having floated in it a fine cloth , 2)64Z on which I had previously collected a number of luminous points , several of them were liberated , and became distinctly visible in their natural element , by placing the glass before a piece of dark coloured paper .
They were observed to have a tendency to come to the surface of the water , and after the glass was set by for some time , they were found congregated together , and when thus collected in a body , they had a dusky straw colour , although individually they were so transparent , as to be perfectly invisible , except under particular circumstances .
Their substance was indeed so extremely tender and delicate , that they did not becolne opaque in distilled vinegar or alcohol , until immersed in these liquors for a considerable time .
On examining these minute globules with the microscope , I found that they were not quite perfect spheres , but had an irregular depression on one side , which was formed of an opaque substance , that projected a little way inwards , producing such an appearance as would arise from tying the neck of a round bag , and turning it into the body .
The motions of these creatures in the water were slow and graceful , and not accompanied by any visible contraction of their bodies .
After death they always subsided to the bottom of the vessel .
From the sparkling light afforded by this species , I shall distinguish it by the name of medusa scintillans .
The night following that , on which I discovered the preceding animal , I caught the two other lumihous species .
One of these I shall call the beroe fulgens .
This most elegant creature is of a colour changing between purple , violet , and pale blue ; the body is truncated before , 26,5 and pointed behind ; but the form is diffi.lt to assign , as it is varied by partial contractions , at the antimal 's pleasure .
I have represented the two extremes of form athat I have seen this creature assume : the first is somsnewhat that of a cucumber , which as being the one it takes whelnl at rest , should perhaps be considered as its proper shape : the other resembles a pear , and is the figure it has in the most contracted state .
The body is hollow , or forms internally an infundibular cavity , which has a wide opening before , and appears also to have a small aperture , posteriorly through which it discharges its excrement .
The posterior two-thirds of the body are ornamented with eight longitudinal ciliated ribs , the processes of which are kept in such a rapid rotatory motion , while the animal is swimming , that they appear like the coltinual passage of a fluid along the ribs .
The ciliated ribs have been described by Professor MITCHELL , as arteries , ill a luminous beroe , which I suspect was no other than the species I amn now giving an account of .
VWhien the beroe fulgens swam gently near the surface of the water , its whole body became occasionally illuminated in a slight degree ; during its contractions , a stronger light issued from the ribs , and when a sudden shock was commuricated to the water , in which several of these animals were placed , a vivid flash was thrown out .
If the body were brol.ken , the fragments continued luminous for some seco:ds , and being rubbed on the hand , left a light like that of p'hosphorus this however , as well as every other mode of emitting light , ceased after the death of the animal .
The hemispherical species that I disco vered , had a very faint purple colour .
The largest that I fou2d , measured about -e66 three quarters of an inch in diameter .
The margin of the umbella was undivided , and surrounded internally by a row of pale brown spots , and numerous small twisted tentacula : four opaque lines cross ; d in an arched manner from the circumference , towards the center of the animal : an opaque irregular slhaped prcess hung down from the middle of the umtbella : when this part was examined with a lens of high powers , I discovered that it was enclosed in a sheath in which it moved , and that the extremity of the process was divided into four tentacula , covered with little cups or suckers , like those on the tentacula of the cuttle fish .
This species of nedusa bears a striking resemblance to the figures of the medusa hemispherica , published by GnoNovIUS and MULLER ; indeed it differs as little from these figures , as they do from each other .
Its luminous property , however , was not observed by these naturalists , which is the more extraordinary , as MULLER exanmined it at night , and says it is so transparent , that it can only be seen with the light of a lamp .
If it should be still considered as a distinct species , or as a variety of the hemispherica , I would propose to call it the medusa lucida , In this species , the central part and the spot round the margin , are commonly seen to shine on lifting the animal out of the water into the air , presenting the appearance of an illuminated wheel , and when it is exposed to the usual percussion of the water , the transparent parts of its body are alone luminous .
In the month of September 18o5 , I again visited Herne Bay , and frequently had opportunities of witnessing the luminous appearance of the sea .
I caught many of the hemispherical and minute species of medusa , but not one of the beroe fulgens .
I observed that these luminous animals always retreated from the surface of the water , as soon as the moon rose .
I found also , that exposure to the day light took away their property of shining , which was revived by placing them for some time in a dark situation .
In that season I had two opportunities of seeing an extended illumination of the sea , produced by the above animals , The first night I saw this singular phenomenon , was extremely dark , many of the medusa scintillans , and medusa hemispherica had been observed at low water , but on the return of the tide , they had suddenly disappeared .
On looking towards the sea , I was astonished to perceive a flash of light of about six yards broad , extend from the shore , for apparently the distance of a mile and a half along the surface of the water .
The second time that I saw this sort of light proceed from the sea , it did not take the same form , but was diffused over the surface of the waves next the shore , and was so strong , that I could for the moment distinctly see my servant , who stood at a little distance from me ; he also perceived it , and called out to me at the same instant .
On both these occasions the flash was visible for about four or five seconds , and although I watched for it a considerable time , I did not see it repeated .
A diffuised luminous appearance of the sea , in some respects different from whatI have seen , has been described by several iavigators .
GODEHEU DE RIVILLE saw the sea assume the appearance a plain of snow on the coast of Malabar.* M Mem. Etrang .
de 1 ' Acad. des Sc. Tom. , .
Captain HORSBURGII , in the notes he gave to Sir Jos , EP BANKS , says , there is a peclliar phenomenon sometimes seen within a few degrees distance of the coast of Malabar , during the rainy monsoon , which he had an opportunity of observing .
At midnight the weather was cloudy , and the sea was particularly dark , when suddenly it changed to a white flaming colour all around .
This bore no resemblance to the sparkling or glowing appearance he had observed on other occasions in seas near the equator , but was a regular white colour , like milk , and did not continue more than ten minutes .
A similar phenomenon , he says , is frequently seen in the Banda sea , and ' is very alarming to those who have never perceived or heard of such an appearance before .
This singular phenomenon appears to be explained by some observations communicated to me by Mr. LANGSTAFF , a surgeon in the city , who formerly made several voyages .
In going from New Holland to China , about half an hour after sunset , every person on board was astonished by a milky appearance of the sea : the ship seemed to be surrounded by ice covered with snow .
Some of the company supposed they were in soundings , and that coral bottom gave this curious reflection , but on sounding with 70 fathoms of line no bottom was met with .
A bucket of water being hauled up , Mr. LANGSTAFF examined it in the dark , and discovered a great number of globular bodies , each about the size of a pins head , lirnked together .
The chains thus formed did not exceed three inches in length , and emitted a pale phosphoric light .
By introducing his hand into the water , Mr. LANGSTAFF raised upon it several chains of the luminous globules , which were separated by opening the fingers , but readily re-united MVDccx .
N C. on being brought again into contact , like globules of quicksilver .
The globules , he says , were so transparent , that they could not bee perceived when the hand was taken into the light .
This extraordinary appearance of the sea was visible for two nights .
As soon as the moon exerted her influence , the sea-changed to its natural dark colour , and exhibited distinct glittering points , as at other times .
The phenomenon , he says , had never been witnessed before by any of the company on board , although some of the crew had been two or three times round the globe .
I consider this account of Mr. LANGSTAFF very interesting and important , as it proves that the diffised light of the sea is produced by an assemblage of minute medusx on the surface of the water .
In June 18o6 , I found the sea at Margate more richly stored with the small luminous medusze , than I have ever seen it .
A bucket of the water being set by for some time , the animals sought the surface , and kept up a continual sparkling , which must have been occasioned by the motions of irdividuals , as the water was perfectly at rest .
A small quantity of the.luminous water was put into a glass jar , and on standing sone time , the medusae collected at the top of the jar , and ford a gelatinous mass , one inch and a half thick , and of a reddish or nud colour , leaving the water undern eath perfecctly clear .
In order to ascertain if these animals would materially altr their size , or assume the fgure of any other known s iecies of medusa , I kept them alive for 95 days , by carefully chanlging the water in with ich they were placed ; during which time6 27o althoughi they appeared as vigorous as when first taken , their form was not in the slightest degree altered , and their size but little increased .
By this experimetnt I was confirmed il the opinion of their being a distinct species , as the young actini and medusa exhibit the form of the parent in a much shorter period than the above .
In September 1806 , I took at Sandgate a number of the beroe fulgens , but no other species : they were of various dimensions , from the full size down to that of the medusa scintillans : they could however be clearly distinguished from the latter species , by their figure .
Since that time , I have frequently met with the medusa scintillans on different parts of the coast of Sussex , at 'renby , and at Milford haven .
I have likewise seen this species in the bays of Dublin and Carlingford in Ireland .
In the month of April , last year , I caught a number of the beroe fulgens in the sea at Hastings ; they were of various sizes , from about the half of an inch in length , to the bulk of the head of a large pin .
I found many of them adhering together in the sea ; some of the larger sort were covered with small ones , which fell off when the animals were handled , and by a person unaccustomed to observe these creatures , would have been taken for a phosphoric substance .
On putting.a number of them into a glass , containing clear sea water , they still showed a disposition to congregate upon the surface .
I observed that when they adhered together , they showed no contractile motion in any part of their body , which explains the cause of the pale or white colour of the diffused light of the ocean .
The flashes of light which I saw coime from the sea at Herne bay , were probably produced by aNn9 2e7 .
suddenand .
general effort of the medusx to separate front each other , and descend in the water .
The medusa scintillans almost constanatly exists in the different branchesv of Milford haven that are called pills .
I have sometimes found these animals collected in such vast numbers in those situations , that they bore a considerable proportion to the volumeof the water in which they were containedthus , from a gallon of sea water in a luminousi state , I have strained above a pint of these medus , e. I have found the sea under such circumstances to yield me more support in swimming , and the water to taste more disagreeably than usual ; probably the dif-erence of density , that has been , remarked at different times in the wate .
of the sea , may be ' referred to this cause .
All my own observations Iead me to conclude , that the medusa scintillans , is the r ost frequent source of the light of the sea around this country , and by comparing the accounts ' of others with each other , and with what I have myself seen , I am persuaded that it is so likewise in other parts of the world .
Many observers appear to have mistaken this species for the nereis noctiluca , which was very natural , as they were prepossessed with the idea of the frequent existence of the one , and had no knowledge of the other .
Some navigators have ' actually described this species of medusa , without being aware of its nature .
Mr. BAJON , during his voyage from France to,.Cayenne , collected many luminous points in the sea , whichhe says , when examined by a lens , were found to be minute spheres .
They disappeared in the air .
Doctor LE RoY , in sailing from Naples to France , observed thesparkling appearance da the sea , which is usually produced by the medusa scintillansP By filtering the water , he separated luminous particles fro it , which he preserved in spirits of wine : they were , h saysg like the head of a pinl , and did not at all resemble the nereis noctiluca , described by VIANELLI ; their colour approached a yellow brown , and their substance ?
was extreimely tender , and fragile .
Notwithstanding this striking resemblance to the medusa scintillans , LE RoY , in consequence of a preconceived theory , did not suppose what he saw , were animals , but particles of an oily or bikuminous nature.* The minute globules seen by Mr. LANGSTAFF in the Indian ocean , were I think , in all probability , the scintillating species of medusa ; and on my showing him some of these animals I have preserved in spirits , he entertained the same opinion .
Professor MITCHELL , of New York , found the luminous appearance on the coast of America , to be occasioned by minute animals , that from his description , plainly belonged to this species of medusa , notwithstanding which , he supposed them to be a number of the nereis noctiluca.+ The luminous animalcule , discovered by FORSTER off the Cape of Good Hope , in his voyage round the world , bears so strong a resemblance to the medusa scintillans , that I am much disposed to believe themthe same .
I-e describes his animalcule as being a little gelatinous globule , less than the head of a pin ; transparent , but a little brownish in its colour ; and : of so soft a texture , that it was destroyed by the slightest touch .
On being highly magnified , he perceived on one side a depression , in which there was a tube that passed i to the ?
Olserv .
sir un lumiere produite par L'Eau de la mer. Mam .
Etra g. 6des Sc9 Phil , Mag. Vol. X , p. 20 .
body , and communicated with four or five intestinal sacs ; The pencil drawings he made on the spot , are in the possession of Sir JOSEPH BANKS , by whose permission , engravings from them are subjoined to this paper .
By comparing these with the representations of the medusa scintillans , and some of this species rendered visible , by being a long time preserved in spirits , which I have laid before this learned Society , it will be found , that the only difierence between FORSTER'S animalcule , and the medusa scintillans , is in the appearance of the opaque parts , shown in the microscopic views .
Many writers have ascribed the light of the sea to other causes than luminous animals .
MARTIN supposed it to be occasioned by putrefaction : SILBERSCIILAG believed it to be phosphoric : Professor J. MAYER conjectured , that the surface of the sea imbibed light , which it afterwards discharged .
BAJON and GENTIL thought the light of the sea was electric , because it was excited by friction .
FORSTER conceived that it was sometimes electric , sometimes caused from putrefaction , and at others by the presence of living animals .
FouGERoux DE BONDAROY believed that it came sometimes from electric fires , but more frequently from the putrefaction of marine animals and plants .
I shall not trespass on the time of the Society , to refute the above speculations ; their authors have left them unsupported by either arguments or experimentss , and they are incon-sistent with all ascertained facts upon this saubject .
The remarkable property of emitting light deuring lies only ret with amongst animals of the four last classes of modern naturalists , viz. / MOLLUSCA , INSECTS , WORiRMS , ad d ZCOPHYTES'ES The mollusca and worms contain each but a single luminous species ; the phola dact us in the one , and the neris 'noctzilca ' in the other Some specis ieyield light , in the eight following genera of insects ; elate ; la , znpyizs ' , flgora , pausus , scotp endra , cancer , lynceus , * and iuts .
he luminous species of the genera lampyris , and fulgora , are more numerotus than is generally upposed , if we ay judge from the appearance of luminous rgans , to be seen in dried specimens .
Am-)ngst zoophytes wefind that the genera nedusa , beroe , t and pennatla , contain species which afford light .
The only animals which appear to possess a distinct organization for the production of light , are the luminous species of lampyris , eiater , fulgora , and pausus .
The light of the lanpyrides is known to proced from some of the last rings of the abdomnn , which when not illuminated , are of a pale yellow colour .
Upon the internal surface of these rings , there is spread a layer of a peculiar soft yellow substance , which has been compared to paste , but by exam'ination with a lens , I found it to be organized like the common interstitial substance of the insect 's body , except that it is of a closer texture , and a paler yellow colour .
This substance does not eltirely cover the itner surfce of the rings , being more or less cleficient along their edges , where it presents an irrncgtgIIar waving outlne .
I have observed in the glow worm , that it is absurbed , and its place supplied by common interstitial substance , after the season for giving ight is past .
The segments of the abdomen , behind which this peculiar substance is situated , are thin and transparent , in order to expose the internal illumination .
The number of luminous rings varies in different species of lampyris , and as it would seem at different periods in the saim-e individual .
Besidles the luminous substance above described , I have discovered in the common glow worm , on the inner side of the last abdominal ring , two bodies , which to the naked eye appear more minute than the head of the smallest pin .
They are lodged in two slight depressions , formed in the shell of the ring , which is at these points particularly transparent .
On examining these bodies under the microscope , I found that they were sacs containing a soft yellow substatnce , of a more close and homogeneous texture , than that which lines the inner surface of the rings .
The membrane forming the sacs , appeared to be of two layers , each of which is composed by a transparent silvery fibre , in the same manner as the internal membrane of the respiratory tubes of insects , except that in this case , the fibre passes in a spiral , instead of a circular direction .
This membrane , although so delicately constructed , is so elastic as to preserve its form , after the sac is ruptured , ,and the contents discharged .
The light that proceeds Irom these sacs , is less under the control of the insect , than that of the luminous substance spread on the rings : it is rarely ever entirely extinguished in the season that the glow worm gives light , even during the day ; and when all the other rings are dark , these sacs often shine brightl y , The circumstance of there being points , which give a more permanent light than the other parts of the luminous rings of the abdomen , has been noticed before by the Comte G. DE RAZOUMvOUSKI .
He states the number of these luminous points to vary from 2 to 5.* I must however remark , that I never saw more than two of these luminous points , which were always upon the last ring of the body , and that the figures which accompany the memoir of the Comte DE RAZOUMOUSKI , bear scarcely any resemblance to the insect they are intended to represent , from which we may fairly suspect him of inaccuracy in other particulars .
As far as my observation has extended , the small sacs of luminous substances are not found in any species of lampyris , except the glow worm of tlfis country .
THUNBURG mentions that the lampyris japonica has two vesicles on the tail , which afford light The organs for the production of light in the genus elater , are situated in the corcelet ; these likewise consist of a peculiar yeliow substance , placed behind transparent parts of the shell , which suffer the natural colour of this substance to be seen through them in the day , and when illuminated , give passage to the light .
On dissecting the organs of light in the elater noctilucus , I fcund that there is a soft yellow substance , of an oval figure , lodged in the concavity of the yellow spots of the corcelet , which parts are particularly thin and transparent in this species .
This substance is so remarkably close in its structure , that at first view it appears like an inorganic mass , but witJl a lens , it is readily perceived to be composed of a great number of very minute parts or lobules closely pressed together .
Around these oval masses , the interstitial substance of the corcelet is arranged in a radiated manner , and the portion of the shell that immediately covers the irradiated substance , is in a certain degree transparent , but less so than that which lies over the oval masses , it is therefore probable , that the interstitial substance in this situation , may be endowed with the property of shining .
A fasciculus of the muscles of the corcelet arises in the interior of the oval masses of the lutninous substance , but not apparently with any design , as it contributes , with the adjacent fasciculi , to move the anterior feet .
In the elater ignitus , the masses of luminous substance are extremely irregular in their figure : they are situated nearly at the posterior angles of the corcelet , and are more loose in their texture than the oval masses of the noctilucus , re .
sembling rather in composition , the interstitial substance which surrounds these masses in that species .
The shell of the corcelet is somewhat thinner , and more transparent along both sides of the margin , than at other places , but it is not , as in the noctilucus , elevated , and peculiarly clear and thin immedialely , over the seat of the luminous organ ; consequently , the light emitted by the elater ignitus , cannot be very brilliant , I have not been able to procture any specimen of the elater phosphorea , but from the accounts of naturalists , , it appears to resemble in every respect the eiater noctilucus ; indeed I have great doubts of the phosphorea being a distinct speci.s .
I lave had al o ; porunity of exami-ing , preserved in a muist way , tv , o , pecies of fulgora , the candeiaria and lantera.a -The ig.ht in this genus has been observed to issue fr ; m the renmarkable proboscis on the fore part of the head .
This part has aiways beenl described by authors , as hollow or empty , w'ch I have found to be perfectly correct ; and what is more extraordinary , that the cavity communicates freely with the external air , by means of a chink or narrow aperture , placed on each side of the root of the proboscis .
This proection is covered internally by a membrane , between which and the horny part or shell , there appears to be interposed a pale reddish coloured soft substance , that is arranged in the candelaria in broad lines or stripes ; but it is so thin , that I could not distinctly examine its structure , or absolutely determine , whether it should be considered as a substance intended to furnish the light of these insects , or the pigment upon which the colour of the proboscis depends .
The globes of the antenna constitute the organs of light in the pausus spherocerus .
Dr. AFZELIUS , who discovered the luminous property in this species , compares them to lanterns spreading a dim phosphoric light.* The rarity of the insect put it out of my power to examine its structure , but from the form and situation of its organs of light , it is most probable they are constructed like those of the fulgorae .
It has been conjectured by CARRADORI and others , that the lampyrides were enabled to moderate or extinguish their light , by retracting the luminous substance under a membrane ; but neither in them , or any of the other luminous insects , have I found an apparatus of this sort .
The substance furnishing the light , is uniformly applied to corresponding transparent parts of the shell of the insect from whence it is not moved ; iHndeed a membrane , ' if it did exist , would have but little effect in obscuring the light , and never could serve to extinguish it .
The regulation of the kind and degree of the luminous appearance , does not depend upon any visible mechanism , but like the production of ' the light itsef , is accomplished by some inscrutable change in the luminous matter , which in some animals is a simple operation of organic life , and in others is subject to the wilL .
It is worthy of remark , that in all the dissections I have made of luminous insects , I did not find that the organs of light were better , or differently supplied with either nerves or air tubes , than the other parts of the body .
The power of emitting light likewise exists in many creatures which want nerves , a circumstance strongly marking a difference between animal light , and animal electricity .
With the exception of the animals above mentioned , the exhibition of light depends upon the presence of a fluid matter .
In the pholas dactylus , the luminous fluid is particularly evident , and in vast quantity ; it is recorded by PLINY , that this fluid is like liquid phosphorus , and renders every object luminous with which it comes into contact .
REAUMUR also found that it was diffusible in water , or any other fluid in which the animal might be immersed.* The shining of the scolopendra electrica , I have always observed to be accompanied by.the appearance of an efiusion of a luminous fluid upon the surface of the animiial , more particularly about the head , which may be received upon the hand , or other bodies bi- ; ught into contact with the insect at thel moment , and these exhibit a phosphoric light for a few seconds afterwards .
1hlis fluil , however , I never could discover in the form of moisture , even upon the clearest glass , although examied iimmediately with the most scrupulous attention by a lens : it must therefore be extremely attenuated .
The same appearance has been observed during the illumi .
nation of the nereis noctiluca by FOcGE .
ROUX DE , BONDAROY.* The aniiial discovered by RIVILLE shed a blue liquor , which illuminated the water for a distance of two or thiree lines.'k SPALLANZANI relates , that the medusa which he examined , communicated the property of shining to water , milk , and other fluids , on being rubbed or squeezed in them.* , The luminous fluid is in some instances confined to par .
ticular parts of the body , and in others is diffused throughout the whole substance of the animal .
In the scolopendra electrica , it appears to reside immediately under the integuiments .
In the lynceus discovered by RIVILLE , it is contained in the ovary .
If I may judge from my own observations , every part of the body of the medust is furnished with this fluid , as there is no part I have not seen illuminated under different circumstances , but SPALLANZANI affirns that it is only found in the large tentacula , the edges of the unbeila , and the purse or central mass ; which he proved , he says , by detaching these parts successively , when they shone vividly , while the rest of the body neither gave light or communicated any luminous appearance to water . ?
, SPALLANZAI discovered a mucous luminous fluid in the plumule of the pennatula phosphorea .
The phenomenon of animal light has $ even attempted to be explained in differentways .
-By many prsons it wa formerly ; ascribed to.a putrefactive process , but since the modern theories of combustion became knovwn it has been generally ; believed to depend upon an actual inflanmation of the luminous substance , similar to the slow combustion of phosphorus..Others have accounted for the luminous e fact , by supposing the matter.of light to be accuniulated , and rendered latent umnder particular circumstances , and afterwards evolved in a sensible form .
The opinion of the light of living animals being the consequence of putrefaction , is evidently absurd , and contradictory to all observation on the subject .
It has been proved by the experiments of Dr. HULME and others , that even the luminous appearances of dead animals , are exhibited only during the first stages of the dissolution of the body , and that no light is emitted after putrefaction has really commenced .
SPALLANZANI , who was the most strenuous advocate for the phosphorescent nature of animal light , stated that glow-worms shone more brilliantly when put into oxygen gas ; that their light gradually disappeared in hydrogen or in azotic gas , and was instantly extinguished in fixed air ; that it was also lost by cold , and revived by the application of a warm temperature .
He conjectured that the luminous matter of these insects was composed of hydrogen and carbonated hydro8gen gas .
FORsTER relates , in the Lichtenberg Magazine for 1783 , e Mem. della Soc. Ital .
Tomo ii .
hfiat on putting a lampyris splendidula into oxygen gas , it gave as much light as four of the same species in common air .
CARRADORI has made some experiments upon the lucciole ; , ( lampyris itaiica ) which led him to deny its phosphorescence .
He founid that the luminous portion of the belly of the insect shone in vacuum , in oil , in water , and different liquids , and under diffrre-nt circumstances , where it was excluded from all commn-tication with oxygen gas .
He accounts for the result of F-I , RSTER'S experinent , by supposing , that the worm shone more vividly , because it was more animated in oxygen gas than in common air .
CARRADORI adopts on this subject the doctrine of BRUGNATELLI , and ascribes the luminous appearances of animals , to the condensation ald extrication of light in particular organs , which had p:reviously existed in combination with the substance of their bodies .
He supposes the light to be originally derived from the food , or the atmosphericair taken into the body ; in short , that certain animals have the peculiar property of gradually imbibing light from foreign bodies , and of after- , wards secreting it in a sensible form.* The foilowing experiments which I made upon this subject , would lead me to make different conclusions than those of ' the preceding authors .
Experiment i.-A glow worm was put into a glass of water , in which it lived nearly two hours , and continued to : emit light as usual , until it died , when the luminous appearance entirely ceasede ESxxperiment 2.-The luminous substance was extracted " Annal di Chimica , Toxno xiii .
1797 ; .
from the beforementioned glow-worm , and from others killed in different ways , but it afforded no light .
Experiment.-The sacs containing the luminous matter were cut from the bellies of ivnzg glow-worms , and shone zuninterruptedly for several hours in the atmosphere , and after their light became extinct , it was revived by being moistened with water ; some of these ?
were put into xvater in the first instance , in which they contnued to shine unretrittingly for 4S hours .
Eperiment 4,.-The luminous substance of a glow-worm was exposed to a degree of heat which would have bken sufficient to inflame phosphorus , without increasing the brilliancy of its light ; and farther , it could not be made to burn ~by being applied to a red hot iron , or to the flame of a candle .
Experiment s.-A delicate thermometer was introduced amongst some living glow-worms , during the time they gave out much light : the temperature of the room being 69 , the instrument rose to 75 , 76 , and 77 , according to circumstances , as the warmth was reflected from the hand , or dissipated by the worm crawling over cold substances .
The luminous portion of the tail , when very brilliant , appeared to raise the thermometer more quickly than the other parts of the body , but it was not invariably the case , When shining strongly , I thought that the luminous rings communicated the sensation of warnmth to the hand , but this was probably a deception , as the actual degree of heat was not sufficient for such an effect .
It should however be mentioned , that in TEMPLAR'S observations on the glow-worm , he said his feelings deceived him , if he did not experiece some heat from the shining of the insect.* Experinient 6.-To satisfy inyself how far the evolution of heat during the shining of glow-worms , depended upon the life of the animals , I cut off the luminous portion of the tail from several liviig worms , and I found that ifthe thermome was applied to them immediately , it was raised by them one or two degrees ; but after these parts were dead , although they continued to emit light , they produced no effect whatever upon th , ihstrument .
Experiment 7.-Some hemispherical medusae were put into a spoon , containing a small quantity of sea water , and held over a burning candle .
As sooi1 as the water became heated the medusae appeared like illuminated wheels , the spots at the rmargit and center alone emitting light ; in which manner they shone vividly and permanently for about so seconds , when they shrunk and died , after which they were no longer luminous .
Experiment 8.--S6me of the same species were put into spirits : a strong and unremitting light was instantly given out , which issued from the central and marginal parts , as in the preceding experiment , and continued until they died .
Experiment 9.--Some of the scintillating and hemispherical species of medusa , contained in a small glass jar , were introduced into the receiver of an air pump , and the air being exhausted , they shone as usual when shaken ; if any difference couldb be perceived , the light was more easily excited , and continued longer in vacuum .
I wished next to try the influence of electricity on the luminous property of animals .
Experiment 10.--A medusa hemispherica was placed in a small glass dish , containing a quantity of water , merely sufficient to allow the animal to preserve its figure ; being insulated , it was electrified , and sparks drawn from i , which had not the slightest eWect ; the experiment was repeated several times with difTereInt individuals , but without exciting the aimals to throw out light .
Eperiment 11.--Some hemispherical medusae were placed in contact with the two ends of an interrupted chain , and slight electric shocks passed through them .
During the very moment of their receiving the shock no light was visible , but immediately afterwarrds the m edusx shone like illuminated wheels , which appearance remained for some seconds .
Upon the closest inspection with a magnifying glass , no contractile motion could be perceived to accompany the exhibition of the light .
The application of electricity in this intstance seems to have acted merely as a strong mechanic shock .
The above experiments on the lumitous medus were made at Herne , with the assistance of GEORGE MAY , Esq. of Stroud-house , and in the presence of a large company , capable of accurately distinguishing their resul s. It seems proved by the foregoing experinents , that so far from the luminous substance bein g of a phosphorescentnature , it sometimes shows the strongest and most constant light , rwhen excluded from oxygene gas ; that it in no circumstances undergoes any process like combustion , but is actually incapable of being inflamed ; that the increase of hea , during the shining of glow-worms , is an accompaniment , and not an effect of the phenomenon , and depends upon the excited state of the insect ; and lastly ; that heat and electricity increase the exhibition of light , merely by operating like other stimuli upon the vital properties of the animal .
t86 In confiriation of these opinions , I may quote the high authority of the Secretary of this Society , who has found that the lignht of the glow-worm is not rendered more brilliant in oxygene , or in oxygenated muriatic gas , than in commoni air ; and that it is not sensibly diminiIsed in hydrogene gas .
I may further add , that SPALLANZANI'S experiments of dififusing the luminouls liquor of the medusa in water , milk , and other fluids , are in direct contradiction of his own theory , as is also the extnction of the light of these mixtures by the application of a high degree of heat .
If the light emitted by animals were derived from their food , or the air they respire , as supposed by CARRADORI , the phenomenon should be increased or diminished , according to the quantity of food or air , that the creatures consume ; but we do not find this to be the case ; for in those situations where they are sometimes found to be most luminous , they are deprived , in a great measure , of these assumed sources of their light In fact , the luminous exhibitions of living animals are not only independent of all foreign light , but are frequently destroyed by the latter .
I have always found the shining of the medusa to cease upon the rising of the moon , or at the approac .
h of day ; and when out of the sea , I never could excite them to throw out light until they had been kept for some time in the dark ; all the lutmlinous insects likewise secrete themselves as much as possible during the day time , and go abroad only at nigiht .
I lave , i is true , found that the scolopendra electrica will not shiine unless it has been previously exposed to solar light ; but I have observed that it shone as brilliantly and as frequenliy , after being kept a short time in a light Pp 287 situation , as when left uncovered the whole day .
The circumstance of the scolopendra requiring exposure previous to its giving out light , is very unaccountable , as the insect , when left to itself , always seeks as much as possible concealrent during the day ; indeed it is the opinion of some naturalists that it is killed by the light of the sun .
The opinions of BRUGNATELLI and CARRADORI are connected with some general doctrines , respecting the nature of light , which I shall not at present venture to disc-uss .
I , t appears to me , that the question is still unresolved , whethwr light has a substantial existence , or is a phenopenopn deperding upQn certain operations or conditipos of tte ordihiary forms of matter .
But the highly ingenious researches of Count RUMFQRD , on the laws of what have been called subtle fluids , and the extraordinary advances lately made by Mr. , DAVY , on , the decomposition of substances , that were hitherto looked upon as elementary , give us reason to hope , that future investigationsmay unfold views of the material world , of , whhicl we can at present have only an indistinct conception .
; that new modes of analysis may enable us to see things , not " thrVug a glass darkly , " but more nearly as they are ; and that the boundaries of physical and metaphysical science , now so far asuder , may be made to approach each other .
In the present state of our knowledge , our business should be , to collect , arrange , and compare phenomena , rather than to speculate upon their nature .
Nevertheless , L cannot refrain from observing , that the circumstances attending the luminous appearance of iving animals , are much more favourable to the supposition of light being a property , than a substance .
The quantity , of light emitted by an animal in a certain time , ( admitting it to be matter ) far exceeds that which could be possibly supplied by the sources , from whence it is usually supposed to be derived .
Thus the luminous appearance of some meduse may be continued with the intermission of short intervals for an indefinite time , notwithstanading the creature be kept in darkness , and without any other food than what a small quantity of filtered sea water would : afford .
The uninterrupted and long continued light that is sometimes evolvted by the Itkminous sacs , and the ova of the glow-worm , is a'so iconsisstent with the notion of an accumulation and sslbscque t dispersion of a material substance .
I shall teriinate this paper by an enumeration ' of the severil conclusions , that are the result of the observations ' have been able to make upon the phenomena of animal light* The property of emitting light is confined to animals of the simplest organization , the greater number of which are iahabiants of the sea.--The Iluminous property , isnot constant , but in gentral , exists only at certain periods , and in particular states of the animal 's body.-The power of showing lighit resides it a peculiar substance or fluidi , which is sometimes : situated in a particular organ , and at others difftsed throughout the animal 's body.-The light is diieM " -rt-ly regulatel , when the lumilous matter exists in the living body , and when it is abstracted fonm it . ?
In the first case , it is internitting or alternated withi periodsof darkness ; is commonly produced or increased by a muscular effort ; and is sometimres absolutely dependant upon the will of the animal .
In the second case , the luminous appearance is usually permianeit until it becomes extinct , after which it mry be restored directly by friction , concussison , and the application of warmth ; which ast causesgoperate on the luminous matter ( while in the living body , ) only indirectly , by exciting the animal.-The luminous matter , in all situations , so far from possessing phosphoric properties , is incombustible , and loses the quality of emitting light , by being dried , or much heated.-The exhibition of light , however long it may be continued , causes no diminution of the bulk of the luminous matter .
It does hot require the presence of pure air , and , is not extinguished by other gasses .
The luminous appearance of living animals is not exhausted by long continuance , or frequent repetitions , nor accumulated by exposure to natural light ; it is therefore , not dependent upon any foreign source , but inheres as a property , in a peculiarly organized animal substance or fluid , and is regulated by the same laws which govern all the other functions of living beings .
The light of the sea is always produced by living animals , and most frequently by the presence of the medusa scintillans .
When great numbers of this species approach the surface , they sometimes coalesce together , and cause that snowy or milky appearance of the sea , which is so alarming to navigators .
These animals , when congregated on the surface of the water , can produce a flash of light , somewhat like an electric corruscation .
When the luminous medusae are very numerous , as frequently happens in confined bays , they form a considerable portion of the mass of the sea , at which times they render the water heavier , and more nauseous to the taste ; it is therefore adviseable to always strain sea water before it is drulnk .
The luminous property does not appear to have any connection with the oeconomy of the animals that possess it , 2qao except in the flying insects , which by that means discover each other at niglt , for the purpose of sexual congress .
EXPLANATION ' OF THE FIGURES .
Fig. i. The cancer fulgens , discovered by the Right Hon. Sir JOSEPH BANKS , of the natural size .
Fig. 2 .
The same animal magnified .
Fig. 3 .
The medusa pellucens , also found by Sir JOSEPs BANKS , represented of the natural magnitude .
Fig. 4The limulus noctilucus , discovered by Captain HORSBURGHI , considerably enlarged .
Fig. 5 .
The luminous medusa , discovered by me , which I conceive to be the medusa hemispherica : it is sllewn of the largest size I met with .
Fig. 6 .
The central process of this animal 's body magnified , in order to explain its structure .
The thick tentacula in which it terminates are seen covered with small cups or suckers .
Fig. 7 .
The beroe fulgens , discovered by me , shown in its most elongated or relaxed form , which it assumes commonly when swimming quickly .
Fig. 8 .
The same animal in the most contracted form .
F.g. 9 .
The minute species of medusa , discovered by me , which is the most frequent cause of the luminous appearance of the sea , represented of the natural size .
Fig. io .
The same animal magnified , exhibiting a puckered or tucked-in appearance on one side .
Fig. I 1 .
Is the animalcule discovered by FoasrER , of the natural size .
Fig. 12 .
The same , greatly magnified , to show the intesagi tinal parts Both these figures are coped from the origii.dl drawNiings , in the possssion of the Right Hon. Sir JoSEPh BANKS .
Fig. 13 .
Is an enlarged view of the inferior surface of the abdomen of the lampyris lucida , after the integumlenlt hadr been removed .
aaa represent the three masses of luminous substance which are applied to the three last rngs of the abdomen .
bbb the arrangement of cellular or in !
erstitial substaIce on the other abdominal rings , which gives the pale colour to the whole belly of thisinsect .
Fig ... Represents the common glow-worm , with the posterior portion of the back cut away to expose the sacs of luminou s matter in situ on the last ring of the belly , a indicates the sac of one side ; the intestine is seen .
to lie between them .
Fig. 15 and 1-6 .
Are the sacs of the glow-worm prodigiously magnified to show t eir structure .
Fig. 16 is cut open to expose the luminous matter it contains : the coat of the sac is still seen to preserve its figure .
Fig. 17 .
Is the -eater noctilucus , with the shell of the corcelet removed on one side , by which the organ of light is uncovered .
a the yellowtransparent spot-of the corcelet .
b the oval mass-of luminous substance surrounded by an irradiation of theinterstitial substance .
c the ends of the muscles which were on the inside of the corcelet .
Fig. i- &amp; IsE the posterior angle of the corcelet of the elater ncctilucus magnified .
a the radiated appearance which the interstitial substance has round the oval mass of luminous matter .
This mass is seen to consist of a number of smaller parts .
b shows the appearance of the interstitial substance fJ7hilos.1rans .
x MDCCCX .
&gt; ate , IX IV.p .
292 .
hi ' I ?
il !
!jaii'$9 ii ii iii:i iii -:i ii i i , i i iilirii ia 1I 'r ii ; raa '.I_ ~~~----~~ ?
~~~---~~----7--- ) i~~~~~~~ bill/ y Ii1 ii i ?
lr ie , i jIi l !
i i'i I i : i !
!II ^i I : : I 1 : jl , i1iI Ii I ' ii IiIIIi II I'I II i I , , ff\ f:.I ii i fb7z i / os - .
n}Yi'n , .
MDCC ) CC C. Ihlat~ / -e V p , .
29 2 .
6C 6-i 4 ( 1 1 '1 p0 -23 1/ 2 _1/ 1 1i / ( L i , : ? ? ?
?::-.2 % 1 ; 5 ? ? ? ?
, : ?
ii ?
- . ? . ?
; : ; - ; j ? ? ?
?:"k ; - , ,la:c ?
-:- ?
= ?
i ?
i::X-::F\3.S i:i ?
' ' " " y c : : ?
( i- ?
S:i ?
:":\Ci " ; - " ?
\ ?
J ?
:9:ia- ? ?
77 &gt; 16.tli,.X 1S bY ... ... . .
6 &lt; 9 IXY 1i4e '-c( Ii I.I / I i , I II b.q ^. .
C,..- , .
where it passes down between the muscles .
c the ends of the muscles of the back .
d the shell of the corcelet .
Fig. 19 .
Represents the elater ignitus .
a is the mass of luminous substance of one side , seen indistinctly through the back part of the semitransparent portion of the corceleto b is the luminous mass of the other side , exposed by removing a part of the shell of the corcelet .

