XIX On t@ CausE 0 the additional Meight which Metals a\#162 ; ^ qulre by being calcined .
In a Letter from George Fordyces M. D F. R. S. to Sir Joseph I3anks , Bart. P. R. S. Read JuneX g:t7g* SIRS ALTHOUGH many chemists a:re at present satisfied of the nola entity of what was formerly suppowd to be a body callecR phlogiston , and considered as alel element\#163 ; ontained in lxletals when in their metallic form , yet this supposition has intervvroven itself so much into chemistry in general , and has been so unisrersally received , that it may-tlot be stlperfluous to relate the following experiments .
If you are of that opinionS I shall be obliged to you if you will lay them before the Royal Society .
When a man begins to malQe an experiment^ however well.digested his plan lmay be .
he finds , when he comes to put it in executiony that he 1USt make a great ntlmber of experiments L)efore he can bring the fact to be proved , or disproved , fairly in issue ; if I may take a phrase frotrA 1asv , there are first mally buts and rebuts .
It has often been the practice to bring all this previous matter before the public .
This practice may be very proper , although it does llot seem so to me , and therefore I have not troubleci the Society with the difficulties and disappointments I have met with ; but have brought the simple ex.periments forwarct in such manner as-that they call be easily repeated by any person who is at all rersed in che mistry , and possesses -those luoSt necessary qualifications irtthis scierce ?
patience and accuracy .
I amj Sir , Your most obliged hlllnble sersrantf Gi FORDYCEcft has been a great deslderatum a ; lmong chemists to detertnine the cause of the additional weight which lnetals acquire when they are calcined .
To investigate this subject , I had begun the follonving experiment many years ago , but warious other engagements have sc ) zuuch interruptedl me , that I have had but little time to pursue any other chemical inquiry than such as were neces-sary to form the catalogue of the ores and tinerals in Dr. HUNTER'S museum .
There is great difficulty itl chooslng the metal on which in quiry should be instituted , on account of the differences of their calces .
After a nutnber of trials , I chose ZillC , AS that whose calces appeared to diSer the least from one aruc ) there ; in other ^respects there are great objections to it likewise but which may be got over .
I took a portion o\#163 ; the zint I employed , and dissolved it in vitriolic acid , with which it znade a clear solution ( without any of that hlack luatter which commonly separates cluring its solution when we employ zinc imported from abroad ) .
After precipitating it by an alkali , and exposing the calx to the air , it remained of a pure white ; so that it could contain no ironO This zinc was reduced to its perfect metallic form by breaking it into small particles , and melting it with black flux , taling that part of it -only which was at the bottom of the crucible .
I reduced this nzetal to a calx , by dissolving it in vitriolic acid diluted with waters and precipitated it by kali purum dit -solved itl water In doing this the acid shoultl be dilllted with bur or five tlmes its weight of wtater and the zinc should be dissolved very slowly , avoiding heat as much as pkossible during the solution .
If this precaution is IlOt taken , a ; quantity of firolatile vitriolic acid will be produced and spoil the experiment .
Ill the precipitation the alliali is apt to re-dissolve the calx if Gare be not taken to use it ill solution in water and that the solution TS diluted with a large quantity of water : the proportion Vi-n which the water is itl aqua hali puri of the Lolldon Dis pensatory is a conY@nient solution of the alkali .
C:are must likewise be takens in the precipitation , that the solu tion of the kali be poured into the solution of the zigum vitriolatuun in wrater by a little at a times and that the szrhole be perfectly m-ixed together l ; efbre a fresh quantity is poured itl , otherwise part of the cals will be re-dissolved .
It is firther necessary -that the exact qualltyty of kZi putum be uwd : iwf too little is used , the whole calx will not he separated ; if too much part of the calx will be re-dissolvedw It is also newssary that the alkali be perfectly pure , especially free ko3n fixed air , $ &amp; s that sstould be transfErred to the calx , and as it flies off when the kali is sinlply united wsith vitriols acid , the acouracy of the experiment would be thus destroyed .
The weight of the calx ) by which it exceeds the weight ... *I use the name of fixed air } although certainly not proper , in order X avoid rlanning into conision by employing those which have been given to thi\#162 ; substanct until the plurality of voices shall\#163 ; s an appropriated name to its t of the tnetal , sllews that tluere is a substalnce added to the whole snetalL ; or , that white some substan(e is driven of , another is added i-ni g &lt; teater quaztity ; since it is c.lear from vavious experirlaerwts well knovZll to this leartled body ) that all matter ; ravitates , axnd titat all the subs " ; ances fourad in this earth , wshich haxre been tried , gravitate equalltr .
This additional matter must be added to the metal either from the acid , the alkali , the s7ater used ilr the solution , the air lying oll the surface of the materials during the time of the operation , or it must cotne through the vessels ill which the operaltion is perforl ; ned .
To aswrtain this , I mlGtde the following experiment .
I tQOi a large qualltity of vitriolic acid , purified by distillation ( about txwo poursds , it not being material what qualltity was takell exactly)g I diluted it with distilled vnlater about four or fve times its weight by guess ( the exact proportion being also immaterial ) , I applied t ; o 1ooo graitas of this diltlted acict a sufficient quant ; ity lor saturation of czquct kali puri , of tT &lt; e Lon(lon Dispensatory , rerldered pure from fixed air , as is pre scribed in the process of the College ; I poaared in the aq kalipuri to the diluted acid , by a little at a tiinen until it was nearly saturated .
I then poured in some juice of violets , which gave the whole a red colour .
I cotltirlued to add aqua kali puri , by a little at a time , until the recl colour just disappeared .
I added the aqua kali tgri to the acid , rather thala the acid to the alkali , because the 1QSS of the red colour at the point of saturation can be discerned much better than the loss of the yellow colour , which the alkali intermXes with the natural blue .
I ascertained the weight of the aqucl kali puri , by Sweighing the bottle colltainin$ it before any was poured into tX acida and after the saturation took place ; the deficiency of weight afterwards beingothe weight of the.quattali puri applied to the acid for the saturation ; this was zoI47 grains .
I also weighed the vessel with the acid before the aqua kali puri was poured ina and afterwards ; and found the increase of weight to beexactly the same as the weight of the aquol kali puri and juice of violets , so that nothing ras lost during the operation .
This experiment was three tiines repeated , taking the pOillt of satulation from the eye .
The quantities of aqua kali purl eluployed were found to be tol47 grairls7 zoo45 grainsX oolSo grains .
I took lol48 grains , being the mean of the three exper snents , and applied it to tooo grains of the same vitriolic acid ; evaporated the water to dryness7 and heated it to a red heat , to drive off the whole of the water ; and found 978 grains of hali zJitriolatum remailling .
By this means I ascertained the quantity of kall znitriolatum produced from looo grains of the diluted vitriolic acid , when saturated with kali .
I took looo grains of the diluted lritriolic acids and put it into a vessel , of the form in the figure annexed ( Tab. X. ) , I added zinc to it until it would dissolve no more ; I caught , during the soliition , the illflammable air , which weighed g grains , and whose specific gravity was , to atmospheric air , as somehat less than 1 to o. The vessel contained the whole of the acid and the zint in the globular part m-arked A , the acid being introduced by a funnel .
The solution was terrnirlated in five days ; when part of the tube D being broke oR , it was left to stanct for four-andtwenty hours to allow the inflammable air rernaining in the ressel to:fly oSs and g ; ve place to the air of the atmosphere i which llappened spontaneouslyfrorn the different specific gra vities of the twso vapours .
The vessel containing the solution of the zinc was now laid 1lporl its side , and lo+S grains of aqua kaZi puri were introduced by a crooked funnel into the globe B , being the quantity sufficient to saturate looo grains of vitriolic acid as before determined .
Then the tube V was hermetically sealed , and the whole weighed .
The vessel was then raised ) so that the globe A was undermost ; thiswas done very graduallyg so that the aqua kali pari was gradually addtecS to the solution of the zitlc : urhell a little was poured in , the vessel was brought intQ an horizolltal position again , and shaken a little ; this was repeated until the whole of the aqua kali puri was poured in .
The zinc was thus precipitated in the form of a calx It was suffiered to stand for forty-eight hours : no aIteation of the gravity took place , therefore notllng had entered through the glass to give additional weight to the zirlc ill order to calcine it .
The next step was to open the tube , which was done uader water , and in atl ath}osphere of the same heat in which it wras sealed , to wits S73 of FARRENI-ISIT'S therlmometer The air was ntither diminished nor increased , none of the nTater being driven into the apparatus by the weight of the atmosphere , and none beilzg thrown out .
On heating theglobe B soas to drive out some of the airs it was foutld to be of the same purity , nearly &gt; as that of the atrnosphere , ; being trieel by the application of nitrous air procluced from solution of }llercury .
The weight therefbre , which the calx haci gained , arose either from arly substance passixag through the glass , nor ftoxn the super-incurrlbent air during the precipitation .
It must , therefore , be eitherfrom the acid , the alkalij or the ss ater .
fro deteteinine hethexs the acid or alkali gave the weight ta the calx of the ZillC , I washed out the k !
i vitriolatum , formed by the cotubirlatiola of the vitriolic aciEl and the kalt , with pure N:rater , repeatedly applied , until it came away as pure as when applied , to all se-Szsi'Dle trials .
The qvlantity of water used was above four pounds .
I evaporated tItis water to dryness , and ]zeated the mass re-d hoty to expel the whole of the water ; it weighed seven grains more than the vitriolated tartar procured from applying the acid and alkali as above .
After evaporating the water , I dissolved the mass again in &lt; s ounces Troy sreight of pure water ; a yellowish powder separated .
The solution of the vitriolated tartar , cleared of this powders was again evaporated to dryness , and the water of crystallization driven of .
It now weighed 976-IX6 grainss which is nearly two grains less than the vitriolated tartar I obtained from the acid and alkali applied simply together , without the intervention of the sinc .
The vitriolated tartar now obtained was free from any mixture .
'he additional weight of the ctalx of the zinc did not arise , therefore , from either the acid or the alkali : it remains , therefore , that it arose from the water .
The weight of the calx of the zinc was ascertained by dry sngFit after washing out the vitriolated tartars heating it to a red heat , and aftersrards weighing it .
The weight of the ZillC dissolved in saturating the acid , was w6+ grains : i ; he weight of the calx 220 grains .
The additional weight was , therefore , ,S6 grains ; .
If it arose from the water , then a quantity of water , equal ito the weight by which the calx exceeds the metal , must be lost sn the operation .
To determine this , I performed a distillationxn the follow ing manner .
: I put looo grains of the same diluted vitriolic acid into the globe ^A of the same apI3aratus , then introduced the quantity of squa kalz puri found necessary to saturate it .
The tube D was then bent downwards about the middle , and the apparatus brought to an horizontal position ; so that the bent part of the tube was in a perpendicular direction downwards : to this I affixed a small phial , and weighed the wholee I then lout the globe B irs a box filled with ice , and applied heat tc ) the globe A , so as to distil over the water into the globe B , Xthe liquor never lJeing brought to the boiling pointo NVhen the matter in the globe A became dry the heat was itltreased to a red one , to distil ourer likewise the water of crystallization- .
The whole apparatus was now ureiglled , and found not tollave lost a grain ; nor was there any water in the phial .
I then cracked the tube Cs btr applying a red hot iron to itn and letting a drop of cold water fall upon it .
I next weighed the globe B with the water in it , then poured aut the water , and let the glass dry .
I weighed the glass ; the defi-cient weight from the fsormer , eighingg being the weight of the vaterX was oog8 grainse I repeated the experiment , with this difference ; I put looo grains of the same vitriolic acid into the globe A , then in troduced the quarltity of ZillC sufficient to saturate it : r to-ok the weight of the inflammable air as before ) and found it nearly the same in weight and quality .
The same quantity of aqua kali puri was then introduced through a filrlnel as in the &lt; AlDCCSC I 1 .
8 9 former experiments then the tube was bent downwards , aild a phialapplied to it as before .
Tlle whole apparatus was -weighed after the distillation ?
and found not to have lost any sensible quantity of weight , nor was thereS any water in the phial.the phial t3eing detached , and the tube broken as befiore , the globe weighed agaita when drya the d:eficiency was less thanb in the former exp\#162 ; riment by 6g graills , which is two grains less than the additional weight of the calx above the metal and of the inflammable air taken together ; and therefore the matter occasioning the additional weight of the calx above that of the-metal , and the inflammable air } are both pro duced from the waterO

