XI .
" An Account of Observations on the great Nebula in Orion , made at Birr Castle , with the 3-feet and 6-feet Telescopes , between 1848 and 1867 .
" By Lord OXMANTOWN .
Communicated by the Earl of ROSSE , K.P. , &amp;c. Received June 17 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper an account is given of the observations which have been made with the 3-feet and 6-feet telescopes on the great Nebula in Orion during the last eighteen years .
The observations are accompanied by an elaborate drawing .
In the year 1852 , Mr. Bindon Stony made a drawing of the Huy60 [ June 20 , genian region ; it was repeatedly compared with the nebula by several persons , and we believe therefore that it was quite accurate .
It is not now an exact representation of the nebula as it exists , consequently there seems to be strong evidence of change .
The observations were continued by Mr. Hunter from 1860 to 1864 , and by me to the present time .
A drawing was made by Mr. Hunter while he was assistant , and it has been verified by me in almost all its details , and extended considerably .
In one place , where there is a disagreement between Mr. Hunter 's drawing and mine , Mr. Hunter had previously been under the impression that some change was going on .
The nebula , when nearly on the meridian , was examined with the 6-feet instrument and with the 3-feet instrument , before and after that time .
The appearance of the nebula differs from night to night , as the faint details come out more or less perfectly in the different states of the atmosphere ; but the drawing represents it as seen on the best nights .
The present drawing contains many new stars , some laid down by the micrometer , and others by eye estimation .
The nebula has been traced to a distance of fully 40 ' North , and about the same distance South of the trapezium , on the following side to a distance of about 80 ' , and to a much greater distance on the preceding side .
As to resolvability , the brighter parts contain a great number of minute stars , generally of a reddish colour .
With the spectroscope three bright lines were seen , but there was no certain evidence of a continuous spectrum .
The results arrived at by means of the spectroscope do not , however , appear to be at variance with our observations on resolvability , as even if the whole nebula were to consist of minute stars , the continuous spectrum produced by them would still be extremely faint .

