; 3 ; 379 .
] Limestone as an Index of Geological Time .
" Limestone as an Index of Geological Time .
" By T. Mellard Read , C.E. , F.G.S. , F.R.I.B.A. Communicated by A. C. Ramsay , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Director-General of the Geological Survey of the United Kingdom .
Received December 24 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) rater !
The geological history of the globe is written only in its sedi-lentary strata , but if we trace its history backwards , unless we ssume absolute uniformity , we arrive at a time when the first sedi-'m| ients resulted from the degradation of the original crust of the it'ii sup lobe .
el f There is no known rock to which a geologist could point and say idjg that is the material from which all sedimentary rocks have been w erived , " but analogy leads us to suppose that if the earth had an twjj .
gneous origin , the original materials upon which the elements first r \gt ; egan to work were of the nature of granite or basalt .
s J From a variety of considerations drawn from borings , mines , faults , |( ; 1 , tatural gorges and proved thicknesses of the strata of certain moun-- j. ain chains , the author arrives at the conclusion that the sedimentary ajft rust of the earth is at least of an average actual thickness of one 4 ; uile , and infers from the proportionate amount of carbonates and .
; J ulphates of lime to materials in suspension in various river waters ; .T| lowing from a variety of formations , that one-tenth of the thickness .ieC(j \gt ; f this crust is calcareous .
Ilf Limestone rocks have been , geology tells us , in process of formation rom the earliest known ages , but the extensive series of analyses of a !
vater made by Dr. Frankland for the Rivers Pollution Commission , ows that the later strata in Great Britain are much more calcareous an the earlier .
The same holds true of the continent of Europe , md the balance of evidence seems in favour of the supposition that \#171 ; !
here has been on the whole a gradual progressive increase or evolution of lime .
The " Challenger " soundings show that carbonate of I ime in the form of tests of organisms is a general deposit character- ; n sing the greater part of the ocean bottoms , while the materials in [ d suspension are , excepting in the case of transport by ice , deposited within a distance of 200 miles of land .
This wider distribution in space of lime , the author thinks , must also profoundly influence its distribution in time , and he shows this by example and illustration .
It can also be proved to demonstration that the greater part of the ocean bottom must at one time or another VOL. XXVIII .
x 282 Limestone as an Index of Geological Time .
[ Jan. % have been land , else the rocks of the continents would have becon gradually less , instead of more , calcareous .
Thus the arguments drawn from the geographical distribution i animals are reinforced by physical considerations .
The author goes on to show that the area of granitic and volcan rocks in Europe and the part of Asia between the Caspian and tl Black Sea , as shown in Murchison 's map of Europe , is two-twent fifths ( 2^- ) of the whole ; much of this is probably remelted sedimen and some of the granites the product of metamorphism .
From considerations stated at length it is estimated that the art of exposures of igneous to sedimentary rocks would be for all go logical time liberally averaged at one-tenth ( ^ ) of the whole .
These igneous rocks are either the original materials of the glol protruded upwards , or they are melted sediments or a mixture of tl two .
The only igneous rocks we know of are of the nature of granitt and traps .
If these rocks do not constitute the substratum of tl earth , and all known rocks , igneous as well as sedimentary , are derivt tive , either geological time is infinite , or the rock from which the are derived is , so far as we know , annihilated geologically speakinj and we have no records of it left .
If we assume the latter as true , the past is immeasurable , bt in order to arrive at a minimum age of the earth , the author start ) from the hypothesis that the fundamental rocks were granitic an trappean .
From eighteen analyses by Dr. Frankland , it is shown that the watt flowing from granitic and igneous rock districts in Great Britain cor tains on an average 3'73 parts per 100,000 of sulphates and carbonati of lime .
The amount of water that runs off the ground is given for seven of the great continental river basins in Europe , Asia , 'Africa , an America .
The annual depth of rain running off the granitic an igneous rock areas , taking into consideration the greater height 1 which they usually lie and the possibility of greater rainfall in earlie ages , is averaged at 28 inches , and the annual contribution of lime i solution in the forms of carbonates and sulphates at 70 tons pt square mile .
With these elements , and giving due weight to certain physics considerations that have been urged in limitation of the earth 's agt the author proceeds to his calculations , arriving at this result , tha the elimination of the calcareons matter contained in the sedimentar crust of the earth must have ocoupied at least 600 millions of years The actual time occupied in the formation of the groups of strata a divided into relative ages by Professor Ramsay , is inferred a follows:\#151 ; H 1^79 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Chromospheric Twines .
Millions of years .
Laurentian , Cambrian , and Silurian ... ... ... ... 200 Old Red , Carboniferous , Permian , and New Red 200 Jurassic , Wealden , Cretaceous , Eocene , Miocene , Pliocene , and Post-pliocene ... ... ... ... 200 JHT \#151 ; Js 600 M The concluding part of the paper consists of answers to objections .
I The author contends that the facts adduced prove geological time to 3 be enormously in excess of the limits urged by some physicists , and ample to allow on the hypothesis of evolution for all the changes .
/ which have taken place in the organic world .
ij VI .
" Preliminary Note on the Substances which produce the Chromospheric Lines .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received December 24 , 1878 .
Hitherto , when observations have been made of the lines visible in the sun 's chromosphere , by means of the method introduced by Janssen 0 and myself in 1868 , the idea has been that we witness in solar storms 1 the ejection of vapours of metallic elements with which we are familiar 1 from the photosphere .
A preliminary discussion of the vast store of observations recorded 1 by the Italian astronomers ( chief among them Professor Tacchini ) , Professor Young , and myself , has shown me that this view is in all il probability unsound .
The lines observed are in almost all cases what I have elsewhere termed and described as basic lines ; of these I only need for the present refer to the following:\#151 ; it ; 63 ascribed by Angstrom and Kicchoff to iron and nickel .
64 , , Angstrom to magnesium and iron .
5268 by Angstrom to cobalt and iron .
5269 " " calcium and iron .
5235 , , " cobalt and iron .
5017 , , , , nickel .
4215 " " calcium , but to strontium by myself , j vjy ; 5416 an unnamed line .
Hence , following out the reasoning employed in my previous paper , the bright lines in the solar chromosphere are chiefly lines due to the not yet isolated bases of the so-called elements , and the solar phenomena in their totality are in all probability due to dissociation at the photospheric level , and association at higher levels .
In x 2

