XVII .
" On the Chameleon 's Retina ; a further contribution to the Minute Anatomy of the Retina of Amphibia and Reptiles .
" By J. W. HULKE , Esq. Communicated by WILLIAM BOWMAN , Esq. ( Abstract .
) The Chameleon 's retina is peculiar in having a fovea and pecten , and in the nervous conducting fibres crossing the connective-tissue fibres instead of running parallel to them .
The fovea was discovered by Knox in 1823 , and minutely described by H. Miiller , who also discovered the singular arrangement of the two sets of fibres in 1862 .
It is a circular pit situated at the posterior pole of the eyeball .
A dark brown dot , surrounded by a lighter areola , marks its centre .
Here the bacillary layer , which contains cones only , is alone present .
The cones of the fovea are long , slender cylinders placed vertically upon the choroid .
From the centre of the fovea outwards , the cones become stouter , shorter , and more numerous towards the periphery of the retina , LJune 15 , 378 where they are flask-shaped .
The other layers reach their maximum development around the fovea at successively increasing distances from its centre .
From the inner ends of the cones , fine fibres proceed obliquely from the outer to the inner surface of the retina in a radial direction from the centre of the fovea to the periphery of the retina .
These fibres connect the cones with the cells of the outer granule-layer ; they next form a thick plexus at the inner surface of this layer , which I term the cone-fibre plexus ; then traverse the inner granule-layer , in which they connect themselves with round and roundly oval cells , and are continued through the medium of the ganglion-cell-like cells of this layer into the granular layer , where they join the processes directed outwards from the cells of the ganglionic layer .
Thus they constitute an anatomical path between the cones and optic nerve-fibres .
These oblique nervous fibres are crossed by vertical fibres of modified connective tissue directed radially from the centre of the eyeball .
Around the fovea the connective fibres traverse the cone-fibre plexus and the outer granule-layer in the form of stout vertical pillars corresponding to those which in the turtle I named the outer radial fibres ; while in the thinner periphery of the retina , the vertical , connective-tissue fibres are finer , and traverse all the layers between the inner and outer limiting membranes .
The pecten lies excentrically at 1 " ' from the centre of the fovea .
Its minute structure agrees with that of the Gecko 's .
The distribution of the optic nerve-fibres with respect to the fovea resembles that which obtains with reference to the yellow spot in the human eye .

