283 H 1^79 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer .
On Chromospheric Twines .
Millions of years .
Laurentian , Cambrian , and Silurian ... ... ... ... 200 Old Red , Carboniferous , Permian , and New Red 200 Jurassic , Wealden , Cretaceous , Eocene , Miocene , Pliocene , and Post-pliocene ... ... ... ... 200 JHT \#151 ; Js 600 M The concluding part of the paper consists of answers to objections .
I The author contends that the facts adduced prove geological time to 3 be enormously in excess of the limits urged by some physicists , and ample to allow on the hypothesis of evolution for all the changes .
/ which have taken place in the organic world .
ij VI .
" Preliminary Note on the Substances which produce the Chromospheric Lines .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received December 24 , 1878 .
Hitherto , when observations have been made of the lines visible in the sun 's chromosphere , by means of the method introduced by Janssen 0 and myself in 1868 , the idea has been that we witness in solar storms 1 the ejection of vapours of metallic elements with which we are familiar 1 from the photosphere .
A preliminary discussion of the vast store of observations recorded 1 by the Italian astronomers ( chief among them Professor Tacchini ) , Professor Young , and myself , has shown me that this view is in all il probability unsound .
The lines observed are in almost all cases what I have elsewhere termed and described as basic lines ; of these I only need for the present refer to the following:\#151 ; it ; 63 ascribed by Angstrom and Kicchoff to iron and nickel .
64 , , Angstrom to magnesium and iron .
5268 by Angstrom to cobalt and iron .
5269 " " calcium and iron .
5235 , , " cobalt and iron .
5017 , , , , nickel .
4215 " " calcium , but to strontium by myself , j vjy ; 5416 an unnamed line .
Hence , following out the reasoning employed in my previous paper , the bright lines in the solar chromosphere are chiefly lines due to the not yet isolated bases of the so-called elements , and the solar phenomena in their totality are in all probability due to dissociation at the photospheric level , and association at higher levels .
In x 2 Or .
F. Rodwell and H. M. Elder on [ Jan. 30 , | this way the vertical currents in the solar atmosphere , both ascending and descending , intense absorption in sun-spots , their association with the faculse , and the apparently continuous spectrum of the corona and its structure , find an easy solution .
We are yet as far as ever from a demonstration of the cause of the variation in the temperature of the sun ; but the excess of so-called calcium with minimum sun-spots , and excess of so-called hydroger .
with maximum sun-spots follow naturally from the hypothesis , and afford indications that the temperature of the hottest region in the sun closely approximates to that of the reversing layer in stars of the type of Sirius and a Lyrae .
If it be conceded that the existence of these lines in the chromosphere indicates the existence of basic molecules in the sun , it follows that as these lines are also seen generally in the spectra of two different metals in the electric arc , we must be dealing with the bases in the arc also .
January 30 , 1879 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Effect of Heat on the Di-iodide of Mercury , Hgla.lf By Gr .
F. Bod well , Science Master , and H. M. Elder , a Pupil , in Marlborough College .
Communicated by Professor Tyndall , F.R.S. , Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution .
Received January 9 , 1879 .
In continuation of the experiments on the effects of heat on the chloride , bromide , and iodide of silver , which one of us has previously had the honour of communicating to the Society , * it was thought to ; be advisable to search in some of the other metallic iodides for molecular anomalies similar to those presented by the iodide of silver|[ Among these no substance appeared more likely to possess such anomalies than the di-iodide of mercury .
This substance , as is wel|| known , is dimorphous . .
In the amorphous condition it presents the appearance of a brilliant scarlet powder , .
which , if heated , fuses at 200 ' C. , and volatilises just above the fusing point to a vapour more * " Proe .
Roy .
Soc. , " vol. xxy , p. 280 .

