The following papers were read:1 .
" On the Oxidation of Ammonia in the Human Body , with some remarks on Nitrification .
" By Henry Bence Jones , M.D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received December 18 , 1850 .
The author having shown , in a paper lately communicated to the Royal Society , that the effect of tartrate of ammonia on the acidity of the urine was totally different from that of tartrate of potash , and that carbonate of ammonia , taken in very large quantities , did not produce any alkaline reaction of the urine , but that , on the contrary , the acidity was rather increased than diminiished by such doses , repeated the experiments with carbonate of ammonia , hoping to obtain more decided results .
Although , from these experiments , it was again apparent that no diminution of the acid reaction resulted from taking carbonate of ammonia , yet the fact of any great increase in the acidity of the urine could not be determined .
In his former paper , the author suggested that an inquiry itnto the occurrence of nitric acid in the urine would probably give the solution of ' this unexpected effect of carbonate of ammonia ; and he was led to undertake the experiments described in the present paper with the view of detecting the presence of that acid under particular circumstances .
The indigo test for nitric acid being more delicate than the protosulphate of iron test , it was chiefly employed ; but a mixture of starch with a drop or two of hydriodate of potash and hydrochloric acid was found to be a far more delicate test than either .
Beginning with 10 grs. of nitrate of potash added to 10 oz. of urine , it was found at last that as little as 1 gr. of nitre to 10 oz. of urine could be detected with the greatest certainty and clearness when the starch test was used ; but this quantity could not be detected as surely by the indigo test .
Experiments are described in which carbonate of ammonia was given , in doses varying from 40 grs. to 7 grs. , to a healthy man in whose urine no nitric acid could previously be detected ; and the urine was tested at intervals of several hours after each dose .
From these it appears that 10 grs. was the smallest quantity that gave decided evidence of nitric acid by both tests .
Having satisfied himself that when carbonate of ammonia was taken small quantities of nitric acid passed off in the urine , the author made similar experiments with tartrate of ammonia , administered in doses of 60 a'nd 40 grs. ; and in each case the starch test gave evidence of the presence of nitric acid in the urine soie hours after .
Similar experiments with the muriate of ' ammonia are next described ; and in these the preseince of nitric acid in the urine was readily detected three hours after the administration of the dose , evern when it was so smlall as 10 grs. From an experiment described in the paper , it was shown , that by a simple combustion of ammonia out of the body , as well as in the body , nitric acid was produced .
From other experiments it appears that urea , also , by oxidation , whether in the body or out of the body , gives rise to nitric acid .
Having found that nitric acid was produced more readily and frequently than had been supposed to be the case , the author was led to try whether combustions in the atmosphere without ammonia could not give nitric acid .
The presence of this acid was , in consequence , detected in the products of the combustion of alcohol , of coal , of a wax candle , and of hydrogen .
As this led to the supposition that nitric acid might exist in rainwater at all times , experiments were made on the rain-water collected on wet days in London , and the presence of nitric acid was discovered by the starch and also by the indigo test .
The conclusions the author comes to from his experiments are:1 .
That the action of oxygen takes place in the body , not only on hydrogen , carbon , sulphur and phosphorus , but also on nitrogen .
That in all cases of combustion , out of the body and in the body , i ' ammonia be present , it will be converted partly into nitric acid .
3 .
That the nitrogen of the air is not indifferent in ordinary cases of combustion , but that it gives rise to minute quantities of nitric acid .
He further remarks , that the production of nitric acid from ammonia in the body adds another to th6 many instances of the action of oxygen in man ; and that the detection of nitric acid in the urine may lead to the conclusion , that the blood is being freed from ammonia , or from substances closely related to it , as urea , or possibly caffein and other alkaloids .

