April 19 , 1849 .
The EARL OF ROSSE , President , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " On the Meteorology of the Lake District of Cumberland and Westmoreland .
" By John Fletcher Miller , Esq. Communicated by Lt.-Colonel Sabine , R.A. , For .
Sec. R.S. , &amp;c. This paper contains the results of meteorological observations made during 1848 , similar to those made in the same district in preceding years , which were last year communicated to the Society .
On these results , the author remarks that the fall of rain in the lake district , during the year 1848 , greatly exceeds the amount in any other year since the register was commenced in 1844 ; and that there is a similar excess with reference to the number of wet days .
The total depth of rain , in 1848 , at Seathwaite , the wettest station , was 160'89 inches ; and of this quantity , 114'32 inches fell in the six months , February , July , August , October , November and December .
In February there fell the unprecedented quantity 3055 inches .
The mountains flanking the lake-district valleys increase in altitude with great regularity towards the head or eastern extremity of the vale , and it appears that it is there that the greatest depth of rain is invariably found .
The amount increases rapidly as the stations recede from the sea , and towards the head of the valley the incremental ratio is exceedingly great .
At Loweswater , Buttermere and Gatesgarth , about two miles apart in the same line of valley , the depths of rain were respectively 76 inches , 98 inches and 133'5 inches .
From the observations of the thermometer , the author concludes that the climate in the mountain valleys in this district is milder and more equable , not only than in the open country in their immediate vicinity , but also than in that considerably to the south .
This he attributes to the lakes giving out during the winter the heat absorbed by them in the summer , and to the radiation from the rocky mountain breasts in the valleys , but principally to the heat evolved in a sensible form by the condensation of enormous volumes of vapour .
Last summer a pair of Rlutherford 's self-registering thermometers were stationed by the author on the summit of Sea-Fell Pike .
He states that from the maximum thermometer no correct readings could be obtained ; but that the minimum gave the following : July , 22 ?
; August , 24 ?
; September , 18 ?
; October , -6 ?
; November , -6 ?
; December , -9 ? .
It appears that on the night between the 2nd and 3rd of January the minimum thermometer indicated the extraordinary low temperature -34 ?
Fahr. : at the same date a naked thermometer on grass at Whitehaven fell to +4 ?
, and one on raw wool to -2 ?
'8 .
The author states that the results obtained from the mountain gauges during the last year , are in strict accordance with those of the two preceding years , and thus confirm the correctness of the conclusion drawn from them in his former paper , " that the quantity of rain increases from the valley upwards to an altitude of about 2000 feet , above which it begins to diminish .
" He does not , however , by any means infer that the law which appears to regulate the distribution of rain in the mountain district of Cumberland will equally apply to every similar locality .

