An Historical account of a strangely self-moving Liquor .
By the Honorable Robert Boil , Fellow of the Royal Society .
AN Ingenious Teacher of Mathematicks , having occasion to make a Composition for a new FireEngine , whereof he was to show his Majesty a Trial , mingled divers Ingredients in an Earthen Pot , over kindled Coals ; but could not , or did not , do it so warily , but that the matter took fire , and began to blaze furiously ; which obligd him to stifle the flame as hastily as he could : and having removed the Vessel from the fire , and suffered it to grow cold ; when afterwards he came to look upon it , to see if what remained might be of any use to him , he was surprised to find it variously and briskly moved .
Wherefore having set it aside , to be sure that it might be thoroughly cold ; he after some hours visited it again , and found it move as before .
And having cast store of seeds upon it , to see if the Liquor would move them also , the Bituminous part of it connected them into a kind of thick Scum , that covered most of the Superficies ; but yet left some Intervals , in which the Liquor appeared , and discovered that it continued its motions .
Two days after , the Engineer discoursing with me of his Fire work , about which he had advised with me before ; told me , among other things , of this odd accident .
And when I had asked him , if the motion continued still , and had been answered affirmatively , tho ' it was then a dark night and ill weather , my Diffidence or my Curiosity made me engage him to send for the Pot as it was ; partly to be sure of the matter of Fact , and partly to try , if the knowledge I had of the Ingredients , ents , which he had before told me , would afford any hint , of the cause of so odd an Effect ; alike to which in kind , tho ' not in degree , I had many years before devised , and successfully practised , the way of producing .
The Vessel being come , tho ' the hasty transportation of it seemd to have sufficiently disturbed it , there did appear manifest signs of such a motion , as the Engineer had ascribed to it ; and therefore he being willing to leave it with me , I caus 'd it to be set aside in a Laboratory , where some Furnaces kept the Air constantly warm , and did there and elsewhere , at distant times , look heedfully upon it , now and then displacing , or quite taking off , some of the thick Scum , that too much covered the surface of it ; and by this means I had the opportunity to take notice of several Phenomenon , whereof these are the chief .
First I observed , that the motion of this Liquor was not only brisk , but very various ; so that having loosened some small portions of the Scum from the rest , one of them would be carried towards the Right hand for instance , and another towards the left , at the same time .
~ 2 .
Where the Liquor first came out from under the Scum , it seemed to move the most briskly , flowing almost like a stream , whose motion upwards had been checked , and as it were reverberated , by that incumbent obstacle .
~ 3 .
Several motions in this Liquor were the more easy to be observed ; because tho ' it were dark , yet it was not uniform , consisting in part of Oily and Bituminous Ingredients , which tho ' they seemed to have but one common Superficies with the rest of the Liquor , yet by their colours and power of vigorously reflecting the light , they were easily enough distinguishable from the rest .
And I often observed , that some of these unctious portions of the matter , emerging to the surface of the Liquor , tho ' perhaps at first one of them would not appear bigger than a pins head ; yet in moving forwards it would at the same time diffuse it self circularly , and make as it were a great Halo , adorned with the colours of the Rain-bow , and so very vivid , as afforded a very pleasant , and at first surprising , spectacle ; these Phantasms often nimbly succeeding one another , and lasting till they lost themselves against or under the thick Scum.~4 .
The motions of this odd Liquor were not only various , but frequently Vortical ; to be satisfied of which I sometimes put short bits of straw , or Fragments of some such like stuff , upon the discovered part of the surface of the Liquor , by which they were carried towards very distant , if not opposite , parts of the Vessel at the same time .
But to make the Vortical motion more evident , I several times detached considerably large pieces of the thick Scum , from the rest of the body : and had the pleasure to see them move both with a progressive motion in crooked lines , and with a motion about their own middle most parts .
All this while the Liquor , whose parts were thus briskly moved , was actually cold , as to sense.~5 .
To observe what the presence , or absence , of the free Air would do to this Liquor ; I caused many spoonfuls of it , with some of the Scum , to be put into a Cylindrical Glass , which tho ' large it self , had a Neck belonging to it , that was but about the bigness of ones Thumb , that it might be well stopped with a Cork .
But having by this means kept the free Air from having a full and immediate contact with the whole surface of the mixture , as it had when that mixture lay in the wide-mouth 'd Vessel ; I could not perceive the Liquor to move to and fro , no not tho ' the Orifice of the Neck were left open : whereas having at the same time powered some of the Liquor into a very shallow and wide Mouthed Vessel , called in the shops a clear caked Glass , it moved rather more then less nimbly and variously then in the great Earthen Pot , ( which yet was of the same shape , ) and showed us many of those Vivid and self dilating Circles , that have been mentioned in the third Number .
And these , by the fineness of their colours , and the quickness wherewith they succeeded one another , afforded a delightful spectacle as long as I staid to observe the Liquor .
6 .
Tho ' the motions of the hitherto mentioned Liquor did not seem to be always equally brisk , yet they appeared to continue manifest and various in some diversities of Weather , as to cold and heat ; and when I looked on it by Candle light , as well as by Day light .
And when being not well enough to visit it my self , I sent one purposely to look upon it , about ten a Clock at night , he brought me word that it continued to move as formerly , and so it has done for ten days .
And how much longer it will continue to do so ; Time must determine , Postscript .
Some time after the foregoing Account had been written , when I came to look upon the Liquor ( which in the mean time had been several times viewed , and appeared to retain its motions ) I found to my trouble , that some body 's impertinent curiosity and heedlessness had cracked the lower part of the Earthen Pot ; at which overture the Liquor , tho ' not the Scum , was run out : which had put a period to our observations , but that , foreseeing that such an Accident might happen .
I had long before taken out some spoonfuls of the Liquor , and kept it close stopped in a Vial .
By this means I had the opportunity to observe , that when I powered out the Liquor into a wide mouthd Vessel it would move as before , tho ' this were done some weeks after it had been put up .
And I remember that long after , having one day received the Honor of a Visit from a foreign Minister , who was an Inquisitive person and Man of Letters , we chanced among other things , to talk of this Liquor .
And tho ' it were scarce to be hoped , that it could still retain any of its motive Virtue , yet , to gratify his Curiosity , and that of some ingenious men there present , I caused the Vial to be brought , and having unstopt it , I pourd out the Liquor into a conveniently shaped Vessel ; in which after we had suffered it to rest a while , they were delightfully surprised to see it move ( tho ' not in my opinion quite so briskly as before , yet ) very manifestly and variously .
This encouraged me to think it possible , that it might retain some motion , tho ' but languid , 7 or 8 weeks after ; and therefore on the 25th .
of July I looked upon it again ; and having caused it to be poured into a China Cup , it manifested at first a brisk and various motion .
But this after a while did so slacken , that I began to have some suspicion , that the motion it was put into by Effusion , and the first contact of the Air , might have given it the greatest part of its agitation .
But this being but suspicion , I put the Vessel into divers postures in a Window , the better to discover the true cause of this Phenomenon : but whilst I was busy about this , which engrossed my attention ; a mischance overturned the Cup , and , by throwing down the Liquor , put an end to my speculation .
Yet this mischance hindred me but from observing , how long the odd agitation of our Liquor would have continued , but not from finding that it lasted a great while .
For I showed it the Foreign Minister about or after the beginning of June , that is , about five months , or more , after the Liquor was first observed to move .

