A Continuation of the Experiments and Observations on the Light which is spontaneously emitted from various Bodies* ; with some Experiments and Observations on Solar Light , when imbibed by Canton 's Phosphorus .
By Nathaniel Hulme , M.D. F.R.S. and A.S. Read June 18 , 1801 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1801 , p. 403 .
] A short description is here premised of an apparatus for exposing luminous bodies to different kinds of air , which , in addition to the well-known glass phial or tube inverted in water , consists in a small stand , to the top of which the luminous substance is fixed , and thus inserted into the inverted phial , into which the species of air to be employed is previously let up to the quantity of about eight ounces .
With these instruments a copious set of experiments has been made , of which the following are the principal results .
In common or atmospherical air , all the objects which abound with spontaneous light in a latent state , such as herrings , mackerel , &amp;c. , do not emit it when deprived of life , except from such parts as have been some time in contact with the air .
Nor does the blast of a pair of bellows increase this species of light , as it does that which proceeds from combustion .
Oxygen gas does not act upon this kind of light so as to render it much more vivid than atmospherical air .
And as to azotic gas , which is incapable of supporting light from combustion , it is remarkable that it should be so favourable to the spontaneous light emitted from certain fishes , as to preserve its existence and brilliancy when immersed in it , while it prevents , the flesh of herrings and mackerel from becoming luminous , and extinguishes the light proceeding from rotten wood , Hydrogen gas in general prevents the emission of spontaneous light , and also extinguishes it when emitted ; but at the same time it does not hinder its quick revival when the subject of the experiment is again exposed to the action of atmospherical air .
The carbonic acid gas has also an extinguishing property ; but in general the light will soon return if the subject of the experiment be replaced in the open air .
Hepatic gas extinguishes spontaneous light much sooner than carbonic acid gas , and the light is much longer in returning when the subject is exposed in atmospheric air .
Nitrous gas prevents the emission of light even to such a degree that a long subsequent exposure to common air cannot restore it .
A vacuum suspends the emission of spontaneous light , but it returns immediately on the re-admission of air .
A few experiments on solar light , when imbibed by Canton 's phosphorus , are here subjoined , from which we learn in general that this light is subject to the same laws with respect to the influence of heat and cold , as the spontaneous light of fishes , rotten wood , and glowworms , of which an ample account is contained in the author 's paper on this subject , already published in the Transactions .

