]\gt ; PHILOSOPHTCAL TRANSACTIONS .
I. The Influence of Stress Strain the of .\mdash ; Part I. Elasticity ( continued).\mdash ; The Effect of } } ) Elasticity and the Internal Friction of Me , tals .
HERBERT TOMLINSON , Communicated by Professor W. GRYLLS ADAMS , M.A. , F.R. Received May 18 , \mdash ; Read May 27 , 1886 .
( Recast , with additions , December 16 , 1887 ) Origin and ose of the Investigation .
ACCORDING to Professor G. WIEDEMANN , main part of the internal friction which occurs in a torsionally vibrating wire is due to the rotation of the molecules about their axes , first to this side and then to that , as the wire vibrates to and fro .
With this view the author 's own experimentst on the internal friction of metals had been so far in accordance that he wished still further to test the matter by investigating the effect of magnetisation on the internal friction .
The author has already made some experiments on the effect of netisation ( the torsional elasticity of metals , but the results of these experiments did not entirely satisfy him , inasmuch as the means of the heating effect of the solenoid were imperfect .
It is true that the observed changes of tempelature wrought by the solenoid were comparatively small , but so alsc was the appal.enb alteration of torsional elasticity due to magnetisation ; and it seemed , therefore , advisable to reopen the inqui1y , and to devise more perfect apparatus , whereby the effect above mentioned might be entirely done away with .
Description of The wire was clamped at its upper extremity , , into a -shaped block of brass resting on the top of the rnber , ( see figure ) .
The air-chamber consisted of two * ' WJEDENANN'S Annalen , ' 1879 , vol. 6 , p. 485 .
'Phil .
Trans 1886 ( vol. 177 , Part II Phil. Trans 1883 ( vol. 174 , pp. 34 , 35 ) .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF AND enclosin between them an annular space , concentric brass tubes , 4 feet in length , an enc os ng filled with water .
The wire hung thick , which could be about aquarter of an and at its lower extremity was soldered vertically in the axis of the air-chamber , an hich was in turn connected to t , he to a copper rod , , aou bout .3 centim. in diameter , horizontal bar , V V. From V V were suspended .
two cylinders of equal mass and from the axlS of the wlre .
The nature of the ensions , placed at equal distances cylinders and their mode of suspension to the bar V V have been described in a previous memoir on this subject .
The box permits of free oscilJation of V V and its appendages , and is provided with air-tight fitting doors , whilst the glass window , , allows the vibrations of the wire to be measured by means of the usual mlrror- lamp-and-scale arrangement , which is sufficiently shown in the figure .
The base of the clJamber , , is let into the top of a stout wooden table pierced with a circular , through the centre of which passes the rod ; the top of the airchamber is secured by a ring , amped to the upright , K. Wrapped round the air-chamber , to within two or three inches of each end , was a considerable length of cotton-covered copper wire , of an inch in diameter , and well soaked with shellac varnish .
The copper wire was wound round the chamber in ons layer , thus forming a magnetising solenoid in which there were turns in a centimetre ; since the wire to be tested was well within the solenoid , the magnetising stress may be regarded as * ' Phil. Trans 1886 ( vol. 177 , Part II STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
nearly constant throughout its entire length .
In order to maintain the temperature constant , water from a large pail was made to flow into the annular space ] the tube and out { hrough the tube during the whole of the period of experimenting .
The magnetising solenoid was actuated by ten GROVE'S cells , the current from which passed through a resistance-box , a tangent galyanometer , and a commutator ( not shown in the figure ) .
The precautions adopted in the previous experi- ments were here reproduced , care being taken that the amplitude of the vibrations should be well within the limits of elasticity .
Experiment An annealed iron wire , 100 centims. long and centim. in diameter .
The current was always sent through the magnetising solenoid in the same direction , nd at least a hundred vibrations were allowed to take place , both when the solenoid was excited and when it was not , before the actual testing began .
The experiment was carried on for two days for about six hours on each day , and the numbers iven below for the logarithmic decrements and times of vibration are in each case the mean values resulting from 400 vibrations , first without excitation of the solenoid , then with , then without , and so on .
First Day .
MAGNETISING solenoid not excited .
*Except in the fourth trial , when it was reversed for few seconds by accident .
The damping due to the resistance of the air has in all the experiments been calculated in the manner described in ' Phil. Trans 1886 ( vol. 177 , Part II The current was in this trial put on , in the first instance , in the wrong direction , but was afterwards reversed while the trial was still going on ; this , no doubt , accounts for the logarithmic decrement being larger than in the other trials .
Sycond Day .
MAGNETISING solenoid not excited .
The current used in the trials on both days was throughout fairly constant , the mean deflection of the needle of the tangent galvanometer being The constant of the tangent galvanometer was 316 therefore the magnetising stress in electronetic units was This magnetising stress is a large one , and was , no doubt , sufficient to develop the greater part of the whole magnetism which the wire was capable of receiving .
It may be seen that even under such a magnetising stress as the above the internal friction is not altered ; but , if the first four trials made on the first day be neglected , it appears that the internal friction is on both days greater by about per cent. when the magnetising solenoid is excited than when it is not .
Having ascertained thus much , the author next proceeded to determine the effect of an intermittent stress , but still always in the same direction as before .
ExperincntII .
of the little ngements used with Professor HUGHES'S induction balance was now put into the battery circuit , so that the latter could be rapidly opened and closed whilst the wire was vibrating , the same battery power being employed as before .
In this case the ithmic d was at first fair ] constant , and equal to 001442 , howing that the internal friction was reater than when the cuit not alternately opened and closed .
After a time however as the clockwork to run down , and the makes and breaks of the current in consequence to proceed more slowly , the value of the logarithmic decrement ra idl and finally became , or nearly double its first value .
Pidly * The cause of the rapid increase is shown in Experiment STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
Experiment III .
The current was reversed a number of times whilst the wire was vibrating , the reversals being timed by a pendulum vibrating once in a second ; the same battery power as before was used .
Exper.imentIV .
After the above reversals the magnetising stress applied as in Experiment I. , the battery power being still the same .
MAGNETISING solenoid not excited .
enoid eMagnetising senoid excited .
The day after the last experiment had been made a fresh series of trials was instituted with currents of various strengths .
Remarks on iments I.-V .
inclusive .
It has been already noticed that when a large magnetising stress is used there is but a slight increase in the internal friction , provided the magnetising current is not interrupted or reversed during the trial , whilst Experiment IV .
shows that if the current be previously reversed a great number of times even this small increase vanishes .
Accordingly , it may be said that under the conditions mentioned above the internal friction is quite independent of any sustained magnetic stress which may be acting on the vibrating wire .
Similarly , there can be little doubt , the internal friction of a torsionally vibrating wire would be entirely independent of the amount of sustained statical torsional stress to which the metal might be at the same time subjected , provided the wire had been previously vibrated torsionally a great number of times .
The torsional elasticity is also equally independent of even large sustained magnetising stress , for it may be observed that the mean value of the vibration-period deduced from Experlment I. is for the magnetised iron seconds and for the magnetised iron seconds , whilst in Experiment IV .
it is for the magnetised lron seconds and for the unmagnetised iron seconds .
Other experi* If we take the last six trials of , experiment , we get for the logarithmic decrements when the magnetising solenoid is not excited , and when it is , the values 0009305 and respectively ; the ; difference between these values lies within the limits of errors of observation .
STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
ments , conducted most carefully , led to similar and abundantly established the above-mentioned independence .
When the magnetising current is interrupted , or when it is reversed whilst the wire is vibrating , there is for the larger netic stresses an increase of the internal friction which may become very considerable .
* Experiments II .
and III .
seem to prove that when the number of interruptions or reversals in a given time exceed a certain limit the effect produced by them on the logarithmic decrement begins to decline , but it would appear from Experiment II .
that even when the interruptions occupy only a small fraction of a second their effect in increasing the molecular friction is very sensible .
Experiment V. was made partly with a view of ascertaiming how far the interrupted or reversed magnetic stress might be diminished before it ceased to exercise any perceptible influence on the internal friction .
For the rather rapid interruptions produced by the clockwork it appears that when the magnetising stress is diminished to its effect on the friction is nearly .
This , however , is by no means the case when the current is reyersed every two seconds , the value of the logarithmic decrement being then more than three times as great as it is when the wire is not magnetised ; and even when the stress has been reduced to it still exerts a sensible influence .
The experiments also show clearly that , at any rate for short periods of time , the longer the time of action of the magnetising stress , the greater is the effect on the internal friction , for otherwise in Experiment III .
there would be a greater logarithmic decrement when the vibrations are 16 in 16 seconds than when the vibrations are 8 in 16 seconds , whereas the contrary is the case .
Nevertheless , this increased effect on the internal friction which accompanies increased time of action does not extend beyond a period of a few seconds , for the increase of logarithmic decrement is iderably greater when the vibrations are 8 in 16 seconds than eight times the increase of logarithmic decrement when the vibrations are 1 in 16 seconds .
[ Added Sept. 29 th , 1887.\mdash ; Experiment III .
has shown that there is a definite frequency of reversal of magnetising stress for which the damping effect is a maximum , and it appeared to be of interest to ascertain more exactly what is the frequency producing the greatest effect with the particular wire examined , and also * See Experiments II .
and III .
The clockwork arrangement must have interrupted the current at least ten times in one second .
[ Later experiments showed that the diminution of the effect of an interrupted magnetic stress as the interruption-frequency increased arose from the fact that the difference between the vibration-frequen of the wire and that of the interruptions increased .
] The increases of the logarithmic decrement are and in the two cases respectively .
[ September 25 , 1887.\mdash ; It was afterwards found that the results of Experiment III .
are to be attributed almost entirely to differences between the vibration-frequency of the wire and the interruptionfrequency .
] whether this special value represents a property of the material or is dependent on the accidents of dimensions of the wire and moment of inertia of the vibrator .
An examination of the results recorded in Experiment .
seemed to indicate that the damping was a maximum when the vibration-frequency of the wire was the same as the reversal frequency .
The following experiment was then made : Experiment VI .
A fresh piece of the same wire was tested with two different vibration-periods , the moment of inertia being altered by shifting the cylinders along the bar ; the magnet- ising stress throughout was C.G.S. units .
The reversals .
the magnetic stress were next made to synchronise with the vibrations of the wlre , the vibration-period being seconds .
netic -S .
ogaritbmic decrement .
This experiment speaks for itself , and shows most conclusivel that the dam effect is a maximum when the reversal-period and the vibration- eriod nchronise .
a amplng The experlment also shows that , with these high values of the magnetic stress , th per sy ratio of the logarithmic decrement to the magnetic stress di gne csress , the latter increases .
lminishes very rapidly as STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
Hitherto the magnetic stress had been maintained during the whole period between one reversal and the next , but it was presently ascertained that if the magnetic stress be immediately after each reyersal the is much increased .
Experiment VII .
A reversing key was used , such that { he magnetising circuit could be opened the instant after each reversal netising stress was C.G.S. units ; the vibration-period of the wire was seconds , and with this the were made to synchronise in one of the trials which were made .
On comparing these last results with those of Experiments V. and VI .
, it will be seen that when the battery circuit is opened instantly after each reversal the effect on the internal friction is twice as great as when the magnetic stress is maintained between each reyersal and the next .
Nothing has been said as yet respecting the phase of the torsional vibrations of the wire at which the reversals of the magnetic stress were made .
When the reversals synchronised with the torsional vibrations the former were made when the wire was nearly at the end of its swing on one side or the other , but it was soon discovered that the effect of reversing the magnetic stress was greatest when the reversals took place exactly at the end of each swing , and least when they occurred at each instant the wire was passing its position of equilibrium .
* The time during which the circuit remained closed after each reversal must have been only a small fraction of a second , as on reversing a sharp tap was given to the key , the spring of which was rather strong , and the finger removed as quickly as possible .
That is , no particular pains had been taken to ensure that the rovel.sals should take place exactly at the end of each swing .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCD{ OF STRESS AND Experiment VIlI .
The vibration-period of the wire was made 4 seconds ; the reversals synchronised with the vibrations of the wire , and the magnetising circuit was opened immediately after each reversal .
Logarithmic decremcnb Iagnctic strcss inutlits .
ternalfriction .
lEeversals made at the cnd of each swing 1.135 1.135 1.135 1.135 1.135 1.135 1.135 1.135 001080 017416 evcrsals mvhcn the wire passed its position of eqnilibrium .
The value of the logarithmic decrement when there was no magnetic stress acting on the wire was , or little less than when the reversals were made as the wire passed its position of equilibrium and the magnetic stress was .
Even with the higher stress of the of reversing when the wire was at the end of each swing is very considerably greater than when the reversals are made in the position of equilibrium .
In the next experiment an attempt was made to ascertain to what extent the magnetic stress could be reduced before it ceased to have any sensible on the internal fi.iction .
The reversals were made to synchronise with the vibrations of the wire , and as exactly as possible when the wire had reached its extreme position on either side .
The vibration-period of the wire was 4 seconds .
STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES MATTLR .
It is evident that , under the above circumstances , even when the magnetic stress is reduced to an amount which begins to be rable with that of the earth 's magnetic stress , there is a very appreciable damping due to the reversals .
By subtracting from the numbers in the second column of the last Table , we get the increase of the logarithmic decrement due to the reversals in each case , and it is interesting to compare this increase with the stress producing it ; this comparison is made below .
arithmic drease o The increase of the logarithmic decrement due to the reversals of the agnetic stress is , for small stresses , proportional to the latter .
When the magnetic stress reaches the friction irlcreases in greater proportion than the stress , umtil the latter exceeds , when the ratio : A begins to decline .
* This is what might be expected from the behaviour of the magnetic permeability as stress is increased : in fact , with this rticular specimen of iron , the bility was found to very rapidly as the stress rose to 5 C. .S .
, and again fell very rapidly when the stress rose from 12 upwards .
The damping effect of magnetic stress , when applied as above , is noteworthy for its magnitude ; for the logarithmic decrement when the wire is subjected to reversals of a magnetic stress of is actually between twenty and thirty times as great as when the wire is free from stress or under the influence of a sustained magnetising stress .
Experiment In this experiment the effects of reversals and of applying and removing the netic stress always in the same direction were compared together , the magnetic stress being in each case .
units , and the vibration-period of the wire seconds .
In both cases the circuit was broken instantly after it was closed , and reversals or closings were made to synchronise with thevibrations of the wire .
* See also Experiment Experiment I I. I tmic decrcment du ] ) itto w the to interIlal ftion 1Htrcss vays magnet appliccl in the same was reversed .
direction \mdash ; in the former of the two cases is very much greater than in the latter , and this might have been anticipated , for the of magnetisation with each reversal is mucb greater than that produced by each repetition of the stress .
No doubt the difference in the effects in the two cases would be proportionately still greater for a lower value of magnetic stress , for , with this particular specimen of iron , when the magnetising stress about 4 C.G.S. units , the change of magnetisation produced by each reversal from eighteen to twenty times as great as the change produced by each.repetition of the stress .
] It has been relnarked that when the amplitudes of the vibrating wire are such as only to produce slIlall molecular displacements neither the internal friction nor the torsional elasticity is sensibly affected by sustained magnetisation .
Since , however , the 's investigations , mentioned in the outset of this memoir , and in which the wire had been vibrated through comparatively large arcs , seemed to show that netism did slightly affect the torsional elasticity , he proceeded to re-try some of his old experiments relating to the effect of magnetisation on torsional elasticity , and at the same time also to study the alteration of internal friction which might ensue with lara ) of vibration .
Experiment XI .
The mirror was twisted round through an angle of , then refixed ; afterwards the vibrator twisted so as to the reflected spot of light just on to one end of the scale ; the vibrator was then let go , and as soon as the subsidence of the amplitude had caused the ) of light to reach the division on the scale marked 100 , * or bouts , were taken .
For the battery power 10 GROVE'S cells were used , and the stress very nearly 35 in netic units .
*The zero of the scale was , in this instance , at the end of the scale from which the vibrator was , so that { the nlplibudes of the vibrations subsided the readings increased .
oxa $OU SI OX9 aqAL J } $UO SI BJqIA sqns ?
JalIlO 9I1$ J91eaJ@ aq ] 009 $OU SI 9I1$ 9I1$ uaqAl SuOI$ ; XqI 59 91IB * uo ffo l101)BJq1 UB1I ?
eq sqns rIVOISXHd NO IJiS MAGNETISING solenoid not excited .
From this last experiment it would seem that for these comparatively large amplitudes the vibration-period is slightly greater for the magnelised than for the unmagnetised wire , and that consequently the results previously obtained by the author with less perfect apparatus are so far confirmed .
The Limit of Magnetic Elasticity .
From Experiment V. it is evident that when the value of the magnetising stress becomes as small as the effect of continued reversals of it on the internal friction is still perceptible .
Now , as any such effect was attributed to twist imparted to the molecules , first to this side and then to that , according to the direction of the magnetising current , an attempt was made to ascertain how far the magnetic stress might be increased from zero upwards before the molecules would be permanently twisted by it .
Experiment XIlI .
In the axis of a magnetising solenoid centims. in length was placed a bundle of well-annealed iron wires , consisting of twenty pieces , each 8 centims. in gth and 1 centim. in diameter .
The axis of the magnetising solenoid was comcident with that of a second , made up of 814 turns of cotton-covered copper wlre ; the second solenoid surrounded the first , and was connected up with a very delicate THOMSON'S reflecting galvanometer .
A single GROVE'S cell , with a box of resistance coils circuit , actuated the magnetising solenoid , and the magnetism lmparted was measured by the throw of the needle of the galvanometer produced Ihe induced current which resulted on closing the battery circuit .
The permanent * The word ' ' permanent whenever used in this memoir in connection with strain , must be taken as denoting merely that the strain does not immediately disappear on the removal of the stress .
Th author believes that such nins as have occurred in his ents are for the most part STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
magnetism for a given magnetic stress was measured by the difference between the deflections which ensued when the battery circuit was closed for the first and for the tenth times ; thus , if and be these two deflections respectively , the magnetism is assumed to be measured by , and the temporary by battery circuit From this experiment it appears that until the resistance in the battery circuit has become about 302 B.A. units there is no perceptible permanent magnetism .
The electromotiye force of the GROVE'S cell was volts ; the number of turns per centimetre in the magnetising solenoid was , and the total resistance in circuit was legal ohms .
The netising stress in electromagnetic units would consequently be ' or .
The above magnetic stress is little more than one-fourth of due to the horizontal component of the earth 's magnetic force .
The magnetising solenoid was in this experiment placed horizontally and at right angles to the magnetic meridian , so that the iron was uninfluenced by the magnetism of the earth ; but other similar experiments seemed to show that , in whatever position the iron was placed , the molecules required a very appreciable magnetic stress to produce permanent molecular set .
[ October 6 th , 1887.\mdash ; It may be objected to the above experiment that the length of the pieces of iron is not sufficiently great in comparison with their diameter ; but * The resistance of the battery and solenoid amounted to 2 B.A. units , which together with 1000 B.A. units added from the box makes the number here given .
Later experiments , however , proved that even with the small magnetic stress quoted above a permanent deflection produced .
( See the passage following .
Cf .
EWING , ' Phil. Trams 1885 , pp. 533-536 .
hows that even when the length is so great as to render the following experiment ows such an objection quite out of the question there an apparent limit of magnetic elasticity .
Experiment XIV .
A solenoid , no less than centimetres in length , was prepared , having coiled on it , in a single layer , silk-covered copper wlre ; the num er turns of per centimetre was .
The secondary coil consisted 5909 turns of silk-covered copper wire , coated with shellac , laid on layers ; the resistance of this coil was nearly equal to that of the galvanomet , .
The un ron of .
wires was increased in number to 40 , and the of each was 325 centlmetres , so that , arding the bundle as one solid rod , the length of it was times the diameter .
The mode of experimenting was the same as before .
Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d Temporary d In reading the deflections there was certainly no error equal to 5 of a division , and the first trace of the molecules taking a permanent set is when the magnetic stress has , or bout one-fifth of the value of the horizontal component of the earth 's magnetic force .
The first decided permanent set does not apparently occur till the stress has reached , a value very close to that recorded in the last experiment as the limit of magnetic elasticity .
A similar experiment to the above was tried with a wrought-iron rod in an unannealed condition , and in this case there was not the slightest trace of permanent set until a stress of was reached , whilst the deflection due to temporary magnetisation with this stress was 538 scale-divisions .
These last experiments seem to show that between the values and of magnetic stress there is no set ; but in the next experiment it will appear that , if we operate by the method of reversals , permanent set may be detected with much smaller stresses .
STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
Experiment XV .
The bundle of , -iron wires used in .
was subjected to gradually increased amounts of magnetic stress according to the following plan :First the magnetising circuit was closed and the deflection , and after the spot of light had come to rest the circuit was opened and the deflection observed ; next the battery was reversed , and the deflections , produced by closing and opening the circuit respectively , were read off as before .
When the ma.gnetic stress ) rodtlces no permanent set the four deflections are all of equal value ; but , if axly such set exists , will represent the change of magnetisation produced by the wrenching of the molecules from their positions of permanent set on one side to their positicns of permanent set on the other .
If the reversals be made a great many times , becomes less and less , but never vanishes , and finally becomes a constant .
Experimenting in the manner mentioned above , the permanent set could be just detected when the stress had reached the value of , a value ] a little less than half of that at which it had been detected by the other method.ae The method of reversals possesses two great over the previous method in attacking the question of a magnetic elastic limit .
In the first place the amount of permanent set detectable is about doubled ; and , in the second place , we may go on repeating the reversals so that any failure to detect a small amount of permanent set at the first l.eversal may be rectified in the second or subsequent reversals .
A very protracted examination of the values of for different values of magnetic stress extending beyond was now and it was found that , provided the reversa]s were for each stress continued long enough to make constant , the permanent set as thus measured was exactly proportional to the square of the magnetic stress .
We can now plainly see how matters stand with respect to a gnetic elastic limit , namely , that no such limit is mathematically existent ; but from the rapid off of the permanent set , with decrease of magnebic stress , as indicated by the abovementioned law , and from the observations with hard and soft iron which have been already made , we may , in all probability , safely assume that even with the very softest iron no permanent set amounting to one per cent. can be detected by the ballistic method , provided the magnetic stress does not exceed ] *This might be expected from what has been said above .
It is not necessary to enter into the details of this examination , as they will be laid before the Royal Society in a subsequent paper .
rfhe soft-iron wire used in these experiments was specially prepared for the author by Messrs. JOHNSON and NEPHEW ; it can be permanently elongated 25 per cent. before breaking .
S Before this note was written Lord RAYLEIGH had by another method shown ( ' Phil. Mag vol. 23 , 1887 , pp. 225-241 ) that up to is no sensible permanent set .
Lord RAYLEIGH has also shown in his paper that when permanent set is produced by higher magnebising stresses the amount of set is proportional to the square of the stress .
.f.JJBap $ uo oma1u tfiL os srq$ cg autIJadx * uIOJff PmoJff ?
onpoJd P uo JO ou P , m $B dnooo Sffo o$uI peaoxa } JJno edmoi ) UI$ UOJI At } uo 9S$ ?
9J0 ' 1OU Idmoo dno UIOJJ @ISS)'([ Al dno UTod ) Al AUAop Bucq JTAt UUOi ) SBAI ) : \mdash ; : Jasqo ?
u$ JJno I JJno $O IIOI$Snb ?
qons }JJno I ddoo P uoJI uo Y ?
q$ O$ apem ( INV SSEHLS riIHif NO STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL It be cted to the aboye experiments that too weak a current employed to bring out with sufficient distinctness any sign of what lvas looked for ; but , as has been already mentioned , the oeon for such a current was to avoid as as possible heating effects .
Moreoyer , it was evident the nickel iron wires were in a state of circular magnetisation under the influence of the current , inasmuch as a very sensible twist was produced by the combined action of the circular magnetisation and the longitudinal magnetisation , resulting from the vertical component of the earth 's magnetic force .
The current passed the wires , and by the earth 's vertical magnetic force they were ] netised with ] the north-seeking magnetic pole downwards , the combined action of the two netisino .
stresses resulting in twisting the nickel wire in the direction of a right-handed screw ; by properly the impulses of the key used for the circuit a deflection of eight scale-divisions could be easily produced .
With the iron wire the twist was much more perceptible than with nickel , and in the opposite direction , as might be expected from the researches of JOULE and GORE .
By properly timing the impulses of the key an amplitude of no less than 140 scale-diyisions could be got up .
[ October , 1887.\mdash ; It has been remarked that a sustained electric current through a wire does not , except by heating , appreciably alter the internal fi.iction .
The currents used in bringing out this result , though to produce very sensible circular magnetisation , were comparatively feeble .
As soon , howevel , as it appeared , from Experiment VII .
, that the netising stress need only be applied for an instant in order to produce an effect , it was resolved to to what extent the internal friction could be influenced by circular by sending an intermittent current through the wire , the current being reversed in synchronism with the torsional vibrations of the wire end of each swing of the latter , and instantly remoyed again after each reversal .
The vibration-period of the wire was seconds .
\mdash ; circularly gnetise .
Current in used to Logarithmicdecrcmentdueb ) ) * This shows a shortening in the direction of isation , and therefore the result is in accordance with that arrived at by Professor BARRETT , who has proved that nickel contracts in the direction of magnetisation .
subtracting .
from the other numbers in the same column we obtain the arithmic decrement due to the reversals of the current in each case .
units .
The increase of the logarithmic decrement increases proportionately to the current until the latter attains a value of ; from this point upwards the ratio increases .
Since the circuit was broken immediately after each reversal the current might have been carried much higher without sensibly heating the wire and , in all probability , with circular magnetisation as with longitudinal magnetisation , the ratio : A would , beyond a certain value of the netising stress , to decrease as the stress increased .
There was , however , the following difficulty in experimenting with higher currents : consequence of the wire hanging vertically it was all the time under the influence of the.earth 's vertical netic s and was thereby , so that when the rent was sent up or down the wire the combination of the two magnetisations caused the wire to twist to this side or that ; and , since the reversals of the current were synchronous with the vibrations of the wire , the amplitude of these last vibrations was , owing to the above-mentioned cause , increased or diminished according as the phases of the two sets of vibrations were the same or opposite .
With the smaller currents the difficulty was sufficiently overcome by first making a number of reversals with the two sets of vibyations in the same phase , and then an equal number with the phases opposed ; but with the current this mode of compensation began to fail .
It is evident , however , that the internal friction of iron can be very largely increased by reversals of a current passing through the wire .
] The Effect of on the sticity .
According to GUILLAUME WERTHEIMlong continued magnetisation diminishes both temporarily and permanently the longitudinal elasticity of iron and steel , but netisation continued only for a short time has no sensible effect .
Since the author 's own experiments led him to view with considerable caution these results of M. WERTHEIM , and to believe that long continued magnetisation diminished the elasticity *Rise of temperature causes decrease of the internal friction of annealed iron .
'Annales de Chimie , ' vol. 12 , 1844 , p. 610 .
STRAIN ON THE PHySICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
simply on account of the heat generated by the magnetising he proceeded as follows:\mdash ; VIII .
The etisino .
solenoid described in the first portion of this memoir was placed horizontally , an iron wire of rather more than twice the length of the solenoid was stretched along the axis of the latter and fixed at both ends .
Water , as in the earlier experiments , was kept constantly flowing through the annular space of the air-chamber , so as to prevent the heat generated in the solenoid from affecting the wire .
The wire , when rubbed along its length a resined glove , gave a clear note , which was taken on a monochord .
The magnetising solenoid was now excited by ten GROVE'S cells , and the wire , having been loosened and stretched by the same load before was again secured at the ends and rubbed .
The note yielded was precisely the same as before , and , though the current was allowed to flow through the solenoid for some time , not the slightest change could be detected .
Several trials were made of the same kind , and all concurred in yielding the same results .
Of course , the value to be attached to an experiment of this kind depends mainly upon the ability of the observer to distinguish small differences of pitch .
Now the author 's assistant has so frequently proved his skill in this respect that it can be fairly said that if longitudinal etisation does influence longitudinal elasticity it does so to an extent which cannot be appreciated , even by a well-trained ear , when tested in the above .
It might , perhaps , be possible to detect some effect of magnetisation on the temporary elongation produced by loads when the method of static extension is employed , but not with the arrangeanent used by WERTHEIM .
M. WERTHEIM seems to have taken no precautions to avoid the heating effects of the magnetising solenoid , and the very fact that he was only able to detect any change after the solenoid had been excited for points suspiciously to heating as being the origin of what he observed .
It is true that according to WERTHEIM the longitudinal elasticity of iron is increased by a small rise of temperature , but in this the author has ventured to differ from him .
S The of Electric Cur on Longitudinal sticity .
According to THEIM the longitudinal elasticity of wires is diminished by the passage of an electric current , independently of the eration which would result * The full arrangement for effecting this will be described in a future paper .
Mr. FURSE , the Curator of the Museum of King George III .
, King 's ] lego , Strand .
The author has already given ( ' Phil. Trans 1883 ( vol. 174 , Part I p. 53 and elsewhere ) specimens of this .
S 'Phil .
Trans ( vol. 174 , Part I pp. 128-131 .
'Annales de Chimie , ' vol , 12 , 1844 .
the elevation of temperature produced by the current .
When , however , the expe1inlents were concluded which bavejust been , and , moreover , no appreciable eHect had been found to be produced on the torsional elasticity by the passage of a current , the author was led to endeavour to ascertain how far WERTHEIM might be justiiied in bhe above-mentioned conclusion as ards the effect of a current on the elasticity .
First , in order to avoid heating as much possible , currents from to amPe were employed\mdash ; currents which , though comparatively weak , are , as has been of very sensible circular netisation .
The same length of wire and the same apparatus as that described in the author 's former papers on Elasticity* were used , with this difference , however , that now the wire to be examined and the were secured at their upper to separate clamps which were insulated each other and from the bracket on which they rested .
Near their lower extremities the wire and the comparison-wire were united by a short piece of copper wire , so that the current from the battery might , after passing through a tangent-galvanometer and a commutator , continue its course down one wire and up the other to the other pole of the battery .
By this arrangement it may be seen that the heating effect of the current will not cause any error except that due to slight difference in the thermal expansibility of the wire and the comparison-wire , due to the difference in the load on the two wires .
Any change of elasticity wrought by the current , amounting to 1 per cent. , could have readily been detected , but after some five or six had been spent , and loads of very different amounts , almost up to the breakingload of the wire , used , the attempt was abandoned , as it seemed certain that for these compal.atively small currents there was no appreciable change in the elasticity resulting from the passage of the current when the latter maintained constant .
Next the effect of much more powerful currents was tried , the same arrangements being employed as in Experiment XVIII .
, with the exception that the magnetising solenoid was remoyed , and in its place two terminal screws substituted , one near each end of .
wire , but , of course , beyond the points where the wires are clamped .
These termlnal screws served to connect the wire with a battery of 10 GROVE'S cells and a ox of resistance-coik , together with a tangent-galyanometer and commutator .
The wlre was rubbed along its length with a resined glove , and the pitch of the note determined by means of the siren \mdash ; first when the CUlTent was not passing through the wlre , next when it was , and finally , a second time , with no current .
Thefollowingb were the results obtained with annealed iron wire and unannealed piano-steel wire : * ' Phil. Trans 1883 ( vol. 174 , Part I pp. 2-4 .
Even this source of error can be eliminated by testing the wire , in the first pl load on the ace , with the permanent breater , in the second place less , by all equal amount than that on the wire to be examined .
STRAIN ON TH1 PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF MATTER .
xperiment X IRON wire 365 centimetres in length and 07035 centimetre in diameter .
Experiment PIANO-STEEL 365 centimetres in length and centimetre in diameler .
The principal difficulty connected with the accurate reduction of these experiments lies in the calculation of the rise of temperature produced by the current .
According to J. T. BoTTOMLEY the rise of temperature may be obtained from the following easily proved formula:\mdash ; where is the temperature of the wire , the temperature of the the current , the specific tance of the wire at the temperature JOULE'i3 equivalent , the diameter of the wire , and the emissivity of the wire .
It would follow from experiments ) with wires whose diameters vary from centimetre to centimetre the value of ranges from to , or approximately as the inverse of the square of the diameter .
On this last assumption the values of for the iron and steel wires were calculated to be and respectively .
The values of were calculated from a knowledge of the specific resistance of the two metals at the temperature of the room , which was C. , and of the coefficient of increase of resistance per degree rise of temperature .
The specific resistances of the iron and steel wires at the temperature of C. were 9707 and 20,742 respectively , * ' Nature , ' September 25 and October and the coefficients of of resistance were } ) roximately and 004 l.espectively .
The value of was assumed to be 42,000,000 .
The to error in the estimation of the number of vibrations executed by ) wire in a given time is comparatively small , and certainly much smaller than that arising from uncertainty as regards the emlSSlVlty .
On the whole , then , it is only safe to assume that , if the observed decrease of the longitudinal elasllclty of the lron and steel be due to the rise ature caused by the current , this ecrease would be about 0003 per unit per ) rise of temperature .
Now , as far as the author , there have been no ations of the effect of rlse of temperature 011 the longitudinal of iron and steel as determlned by the of tions .
The athor has , , by the method of static extension , obtained for unannealed } ) iano steel , and for soft iron , ) decrease of longitudinal per , resulting from a rise of elltigrade , of etween and Further , he has recently obtained from experiments on torSlonally vibrating lron at various tenll ) ratures a decrease of torsional elasticity amounting to per unit per degree Centigrade rise of temperature .
Taking all } ) facts into consideration , it seems probable that such effects as are produced by even powerful currents on the ticit solely to be ascribed to the generated by these ents .
of WIEDEMANN'S ecting tFriction of It will be now advantageous to review very briefly some of the results recorded in this the author 's two } ) memoirs on the internal friction of metals , with the object of ascertaining how ' these results support WIEDEMANN'S ingenious theory respecting the cause of the friction .
According to rDEMANN , as the wire vibrates torsionally in one direction or the opposite , so do the molecules rotate about their axes in one direction or the opposite , and at each rotation are !
) ermanently deflected , so that , if at the extremity of any one of the of the vibrator the latter could be checked and afterwards quietly restored to its position of equilibrium without allowing it to pass over to the other side , the molecules would be permanently deflected .
If , however , as in free torsional vibrations , the vibrator is allowed to pass over the position of equilibrium , the molecules will be permanently visted in the opposite direction , and so on ; thus the loss of energy due to internal friction represents the work which has to be performed in order to twist the molecules from their permanent positions on the one side to their permanent positions on the other .
founds his theory mainly on the results of his experiments on the torsion experienced by wires as tested by the statical method .
In these experiments he finds even the slightest produces permanent torsion of the and also , as he assnmes , permanent twist of the molecules .
It will be as well * ' Phil. Trans 1883 ( vol. 174 , Part I pp. STRAIN ON THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF to quote one of WIEDEMANN'S experiments , so that some idea may be formed of the extent of the permanent deformation produced by a given torsional stress .
Experiment An annealed brass wire 48 centims. in length and 2 centims. in diameter , with kilos .
, and subjected to torsional stress , increased by small amounts at a time .
Scale and mirror were used , and a displacement of the image through scale-divisions corresponded to 1o of rotation of mirror .
An examination of the fourth column shows that the consecutive values of permanent deformation produced by conseclltive equal loads form roughly a geometrical progression , of which the common ratio is .
It may then be roughly calculated that the permanent twist produced by the first 10 grammes cannot greater than 14 , whilst the total torsion is 104 .
Thus in this experiment the permanent torsion produced by the smallest load is less than of the total ; but in some of the author 's own experiments , in consequence of a much greater length of wire being used , and that , too , of much smaller diameter , the temporary deformations vary , on the average , between and of the smallest in ' experiments , so that the permanent torsion of the wire itself would escape observation should the attempt be made to detect it by the method of statical torsion .
[ October , 1887.\mdash ; Nevertheless , the experiments described in the author 's paper seem to place beyond doubt the soundness of hypothesis that even wibh the most minute torsional deformations the molecules of a torsionally oscillating wire are twisted first to side and then to , and that this is the main cause of the internal friction .
For how else can the enormous increase of the internal friction which can be effected by interrupted netisation be accounted for ?
Had a magnetic elastic limit been proved to exist , there would have been some little difficulty in accepting WIEDEMANN'S views , for in the author 's experiments on internal friction , previously alluded to , the logarithmic decrement was found to be independent *WIEDEMANN designates as temporary torsion what is put down its total torsion .
Provided the amplitudes of the oscillations do not exceed a certain limit .
MR. H. TOMLINSON ON THE INFLUENCE OF STRESS AND STRAIN , ETC .
of the amplitude even for the very minutest torsional deformations ; but , since it has been proved that any magnetic stress , however small , must some molecular permanent set , the difficulty ] 1 .
When the nations produced by the oscillations are small the internal friction of a torsionally wire is not affected by sustained longitudinal magnetisation of moderate amount .
The internal friction is also not affected by sustained netisation , even when carried nearly to the point of saturation , provided the current be , previously to experimenting , reversed a great number of times .
2 .
When the deformations are the internal friction is increased by sustained netisation of amount .
3 .
The torsional elasticity is entirely independent of any sustained longitudinally netising stress which may be acting upon the wire , provided the deformations produced by the torsional oscillations be small .
When the deformations are large the torsional elasticity is very slightly decreased by sustained longitudinal magnetisation of large amount .
4 .
When the netising current is interrupted , and , to a greater extent , when it is repeatedly whilst the wire is the internal friction is increased provided the magnetising stress be of moderate amount .
The increase of internal friction may become very considerable when the netising stress is great .
5 .
When the deformations produced by the oscillations are small the torsional elasticity is not affected by repeatedly interrupted or reversed magnetisation , even when the netising current is very large .
6 .
There exists a limit of magnetic stress within which the magnetic elasticity is perfect , but a mathematically true netic elastic limit does not exist .
7 .
The passage of an electric current through a torsionally vibrating wire does not affect , except by heating , either the internal friction or the torsional elasticity , provided the deformations produced by the oscillations be small .
8 .
The effect of netisation , even when carried to the point of saturation , on the longitudinal oscillations of an iron or steel wire is 9 .
The of an electric current through a longitudinally oscillating iroIl or steel wire does not , except by heating , affect the oscillation-frequency .
10 .
When the deformations produced in a torsional]y oscillating wire do not exceed a certain limit the internal friction mainly depends upon the sub-permanent rotation to and fro of the molecules abuut their axes .

