]\gt ; of Struts and Beams ? .
End hrusts .
441 thrust , but it is not possible from simple considerations to anticipate to what extent .
In any case , the problem is complicated in aerodynamic practice by the fact that the presence of bracing wires attached at intermediate points to the spar causes a variation in this thrust along the bay in the vertical plane : and even in the longitudiual force plane .
Under static conditions , it was ( previously understood that a structure of this type would fail through ni instability when the length of any one bay became equal to that of 's length , but it has already been proved in the authors ' previous paper that this is not the case , and the real conditions under which failure arises were there stated .
It appeared that the bays could not be regarded as isolated struts under end thrust , but that on accounlt of interference effects between bays considerable modification arose .
It is to be anticipated that iu fit the analogous problem here to be ated , interference f ) due to vibration would result , and that likewise the spar could not be treated as a series of isolated struts under end thrust and external forced oscillation .
I It is proposed for the case of a spar supported simply at any number of 1 points to investigate the effect of end thrust differing from bay to bay of the spar , upon the natural period of vibration , upon the conditions of esonance , and upon the distribution of bending moments and stresses in the structure .
The ground will be cleared initially , and the manner of treatment exemplitied by dealing in detail with the case of a der end thrust , simply supported at both ends , under a vertical periodic lateral loading , and a periodic bending moment at end .
Let the lateral loading be ) where X is a function of only , and let the end thrust be F. If and be the bending moments at the two ends , and if be any point in the beam of co-ordinates at any time , then the moment on the portion to the left of is , where is the shearing force at , and , t ) is the moment of the lateral loading on that portion about the point P. Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
Strength of Since the portion of the beam is in motion under the influence of these moments , this must be equated to the rate of change of angular momentum of that portion , i.e. , ength ossumed constant aecti totation oemen .
Equating these t ' expressions bing twice with respect to , we find Poemembering that EI and that equal to the lateral loading , the equation reduces to , ( 1 ) where and ) The problem will be solved by determining the solution of equation ( 1 ) which satisfies the condition , ( a ) at and for all time , ( b ) EI and at and respectively , where and may be any given functions of ( c ) known function of for * ( d ) known function of for Since the equation has constant coefficients , solutions are of course additive .
Let the expression for be supposed expressed in the form , ( 2 ) where and are functions of , at present unknown , unknown constants .
Inserting ( 2 ) in equation ( 1 ) it follows that Struts Continuous Beams under End Thrusts .
It will be sufficient to equate the coefficients of and on each side of the equation , and we find accordingly ( 4 ) except where , when .
( 5 ) To find a solution of these equations , the end conditions as restrictions on and its derivatives must now be interpreted in terms of the restrictions on A and , etc. Condition ( n ) which states that at and for all time requires enerally that and at these points .
To illustrate the problem it will be sufficient to suppose pt .
This corresponds with an applied periodic bending moment at one end , but since the solutions of the equations are additive , the presence of one single such term will not detract from the generality .
Hence at for all time , pt at for all time .
These interpreted for the 's and 's require that at at and and except when , when When the solution given by ( 4 ) is where are roots of the equation , ( 6 ) so that .
( 7 ) Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
Strength of ' the boundary conditions , from which it follows that , and are zero , unless : i.e. , unless , etc. , ( 8 ) where are then zero and is yet to be determined .
This last condition may be written otherwise , viz. , or .
( 9 ) is any integer , and as as there is a real period .
For when this becomes an equality , the normal first Euler 's critical occurs , and above this value of the end thrust the period becomes imaginary , so that the value of increases exponentially , and the motion of the beam is unstable .
The same argument applies for the higher criticals .
It should be particularly remarked that the fact that the beam is in a state of vibration has not affected the value of the crippling load , but that the longitudinal thrust is such as to increase or decrease the period of natural vibration according as the force is compressive or tensive .
In the eneral expression for there appear , therefore , only terms in and for which has the value derived in equation ( 9 ) , together with terms in pt and to be obtained as follows : So far , where is given by ( 9 ) .
The conditions that A and are to satisfy are ( 1 ) At and , A and are zero .
( 3 ) At and ( 2 ) At and are zero .
tinuous Beams under End Thrusts .
where A and satisfy the equations , ( 11 ) Consider the expression for , viz. , where and are the roots of the equation .
( 13 ) Inserting the end conditions , the following hold:\mdash ; .
from which and are easily determined in general as finite quantities .
This fixes the term pt in ( 10 ) .
Special circumstances arise , however , when i.e. , when , etc. This implies that , the period of the externally applied bending moment at the end synchronises with the natural period of vibration for the whole beam under the end thrust .
Under these circumstances and become excessively large , and also as a consequence of the synchronism .
To determine A we wriiae where and is obtained roll The end conditions are of course and for and Hence , where , . .
W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
Strength of From these four equations the values of the four constants are easily derived as definite finite quantities , except in the special case , etc. , becomes excessively large .
Sappears fbove aysis thich occur ahreestants infinite series .
These wxpanding.theof.nder expression fwhen timpressed , force synchroni wibrationwhen e beam under erust wertones , that corresponding whein those catural period oibration ohemoment anticipated occount oeatureforced lateral vibration , ransmitted teriodic bending that in the case of a spar consisting of any number of bays , the vibrations in one bay will be transmitted to any other in the same manner as this pel.iodic bending moment operates , and that consequently all the bays vibrate with the same periods .
Effect of Vnbraiions of Snpports.\mdash ; If in the previous analysis the end conditions that the two supports are supposed rigid , are modified to correspond with the case where these two supports execute vertical harmonic motions of the form ut and respectively , then the will proceed as before , except that condition ( a ) becomes ut and ut at and respectively .
From ( 2 ) by equating coefficients it will be seen that these imply that the term ut must arise in ( 2 ) , and that , therefore , and at and respectively , the other values of and being zero at these points .
The analysis then proceeds along the same lines and indicates that and will be determined as definite finite constants unless the period of the vibration of the supports coincides with a free period of the beam under end thrust alone , in which case resonance takes place .
It appears , then , quite generally that resonance , and therefore excessive amplitude of vibration of the bay will occur when the period of any one of the externally applied forced oscillations become , where , and is any integer .
Struts and Continuous Beams under End Thrusts .
Vibrations of a Wing Spar under Thrust , arying from to Bay due to Xift and under Forced Loading due to Bngine Throbbing.\mdash ; Regarding the spar as a separate entity in the aeroplane there are three principal types of force operating upon it which may set up and affect vibration .
The longitudinal thrust , as already explained , is brought into being by the lift wires .
In addition there are in the longitudinal force plane certain bracing wires connected to the spar at intermediate points which cause a variation to some extent of the force along each bay .
For the moment , however , the effect of these longitudinal bracing wires will be ignored , and it will be assumed merely thab the force along each bay is constant , but varies from bay to .
In normal flight the throbbing of the engine sets up a periodic vibration in the structure , and this will be transnutted by the wires , struts , etc. , to the spars .
The variation in end thrust in each bay due to the effect of this on the wires will be neglected for the present , and it will be merely supposed that the of the throbbing will be to impose a periodic displacement upon one or more supports of the spar .
It is difficult to estimate up the relative importance of the effect of variation in wind forces such as are oaused usts or oscillations of the machine , but it will be assumed that this is equivalent to a periodic lateral loading on each bay , and it will be quite sufficient to assume the period of these forces is the same from bay to bay .
It is proposed to investigate the effect of these forced oscillations upon the bending moments and stresses in the spars and upon the conditions under which instability and resonance arise .
Let ( r ) and be two supports of a spar , and as before let of co-ordinates be any point in that bay at time , then by the same method as already adopted the ( of motion ) of the bay is , ( 14 ) where ( 15 ) and .
( 16 ) the longitudinal thrust in the bay , flexural rigidity , weight per unit length assumed constant , lateral force per unit length The equation ( 14 ) has constant coefficients , and therefore the solutions .
W. L. owley and H. Levy .
Strength of additive .
The boundary conditions that must be satisfied.are as follows:\mdash ; ( a ) At qt , where is the deflection of a support measured from some datum line fixed in space .
( b ) At These bending moments will be obtained by the appropriate moment equations to be given later .
( c ) At and are given functions of Generally , the forced vibrations may have frequencies other than those corresponding with , and , moreover , vibrations may occur which are not common to both the lateral loading and the vibrations of the supports .
The above analysis , however , will include these cases if each frequency is takeu separately , and the resulting moments , etc. , added algebraically , since solutions of the differential equations are additive .
Wben a vibration is not common , it could be treated as though present in both the lateral vibration and in the vibrations of the supports , except that one of the amplitudes is zero .
these conditions , it will be perfectly general to consider those problems in which every bay and every support receives forced vibrations of the same period but of different amplitudes .
Assume of the form , ( 17 ) where and are functions of alone , and the two summations may , for the present , be either finite or infinite series .
Inserting this in the equation of motion , we find Hence equating coefficients of and on both sides of this equation , it fo:llows that ( 18 ) for all values of , and Struts and Continuous Beams under End Thrusts .
except when , in which case , ( 20 ) and when , when Condition ( a ) for will be satisfied if and are zero at for all values of except when and at and respectively .
For condition ( b ) we note that , to be determined from the appropriate moment equation , must be.expansible in the form and differentiating ( 17 ) twice with respect to , ( b ) reduces to , etc. , ( 22 ) and , etc. ( 23 ) Condition ( c ) merely states that and are given functions of The solutions of equations ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) have already been given .
They are , ( 24 ) where obtained from the conditions that at and and and and respectively , while the solution of ( 20 ) is , ( 25 ) where and , and and are solutions of and respectively .
Confining attention for the moment to the case of , we note that the boundary conditions demand At and ' and Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
Strength of Inserting these conditions in ( 25 ) , we obtain where At , say , ( 26 ) where does not involve the bending moment , ( r ) and .
This may be written in the more conoise form , ( 27 ) where ?
) The slope at the same point regarded as on the previous bay is .
( 28 ) By equating these two expressions the extended form of the equations of three moments ) for a vibrating spar under an end thrust which varies from bay to bay is , writing for , .
( 29 ) This extended form of the equation of three moments determines the coefficient of in the expansion ( 21 ) for the complete bending moment at any support .
The remaining coefficients in the expansion for are Struts and Continuous under End Thrusts .
determined in a similar manner from equations ( 18 ) and ( 19 ) .
These coefficients , however , are brought into existence by the superposed natural vibration of the spar under end thrust , and if it be supposed , as is in practice quite legitimate , that damping is present , then they die out , and there are merely left coefficients due to the external oscillations .
It is possible , of course*that the shape of the wing section might be such that the air forces brought into play as the wing vibrates would be of the nature to maintain the motion , and thus counterbalance and even over-balance any damping effect , but for the moment this state of affairs is not contemplated .
The coefficients , , etc. , in the extended form of the equation of three moments are easily calculated for any bay from the roots of the biquadratic in , while and are known functions of the end thrust , lateral loading and .
If the end supports of a system occur at the extreme end of the spar so that there is no overhang , the bending moments at these points are zero , and by commencing at one end and considering successive pairs of bays the bending moments at all other supports are determined in exactly the same manner as by the ordinary method of three moments .
If , however , the end supports are not actually at the end of the bays , but overhanging pieces occur , from a knowledge of the loading , etc. , on these pieces a slight modification would require to be introduced .
In general , these equations will determine finite and definite bending moments at each support for a given period of the external impressed force and of the lnotion of the supports , and for iven v of along each bay .
When resonance occurs so that the amplitude of ribration becomes excessively large , the bending moments also will become excessive , and the resonance condition which determines the resonating period for the whole bay then takes the form ( 30 ) A reduction formula applicable perfectly generally to this determinant is clearly identical in form with that obtained in the previous communication , and need not be discussed here .
As in the case of the stationary spar treated in that paper , a number of theorems arise corresponding with those with clamped supports , etc. Messrs. W. L. Cowley and H. Levy .
Strength of Condition ( 30 ) gives the resonating period for any value of , while for this condition is that required for crippling of the struct re nonvibrating .
This term corresponding to ) is always present , and therefore for all values of the crippling load is the same as for the non-vibrating spar .
In cases where the effect of the end thrust on the spar is not reat , it will be true to a first approximation to put , in which event the terms in the previous discussion become considerably simplified .
The expressions for , and now take the form , ( 31 ) , ( 32 ) where ( 33 ) This formula is at once analogous to the results obtained in the earlier paper , for the case of a non-vibrating ) under end thrust where ?
, and are the sums of the corresponding tension and compression terms used in that communication , i.e. , , now being of course .
As a simple illustration of these results , consider the case of two bays only of equal flexural rigidities and of lengths and .
If there be no end thrust the determinantal condition ( 30 ) reduces to where For three bays of lengths the determinantal condition is or and Continuous Beams under Thrusts .
In the case where , i.e. , the ends of the bay are clamped , and the condition beco1nes i.e. , approximately , which determines the reason , For the case of a of , fixed one end and supported at the other , where and therefore Hence giving as a first solution approx. , i.e. , The foregoing analysis has assumed that in each bay the end thrust , weight per unit length and flexural rigidity are constant .
If this assumption be removed the general equation of motion can be obtained by an application ' of the same methods and expressed in the form where , ] , and are arbitrary functions of A convenient general form may be found for the solution of this equation in a form particularly suitable for graphical integration , and at the same time the conditions for critical loading , etc. , can be easily deduced .
The method , although quite general , will be applied in the particular case of the crippling of a strut of variable flexural rigidity , but under constant end thrus The above equation then takes the form , ( 34 ) if there is no lateral load , since V0L .
Messrs. W. .
Cowley and H. Levy .
Strength of It will be seen that assumption that no lateral load exists is i.n reality no restriction as regards the present investigation .
The condition for instability will be a relation that must be satisfied by in order that the bending moments along the strut become infinite .
This is in accordance with the point of view developed in the earlier communication .
If the strut be of length , and pin jointed or simply supported at the ends and , then it can easily be verified that the solution of this equation subject to the external conditions due , say , to eccentric loading at at is , ( 35 ) where ( 36 ) , ( 37 ) where A and are constants to be determined from the end conditions .
The series may be written in the following conyerging form evidently suitable for graphical integration : -etc .
, , ( 38 ) where each term may be obtained from the preceding ons by two simple graphical integrations .
This may be written Iuserting the end conditions but evidently from the expressions for V. Hence , The bending moment at any point is thus obtained in terms of two converging series whose terms alternate in sign .
Upper and lower limits may , therefore , rapidly be set to the SU1US of these series .
Struts Continuous Beams under End Thrusts .
For instability , is to become infinite , and this can only take place when , ( 39 ) unless .
( 40 ) The conditions for crippling , viz. , , is thus -etc .
, ( 41 ) which is perfectly general for any variation in , and may be rapidly solved for by graphical integration .
As a verification , suppose EI constant , then the series becomes or multiplying throughout by , -etc .
, ( 42 ) i.e. , Since is not a solution , , etc. , the usual Eulerian result .
It is clear that the criterion used in the foregoing analysis for namely , that the bending moments become infinite , can be applied directly to any case where the solution of equation ( 34 ) is completely known .
typical case of this nature , well worth analysis in detail , is that afforded by the assumption that the variation in the square root of the flexural idity is parabolic , e.g. , El .
( 43 ) At .
( 44 ) The equation for solution for constant end thrust is F. .
( 45 ) This equation is completely integrable , giving , ( 46 ) here .
( 47 ) Strength of Struts Beams urtde End Thrusts .
Inserting the end conditions , the condition that becomes infinite as before takes the form i. e. , or Hence , solving for .
; .
( 49 ) Or The limit of this expression when !
with uniform section can easily be shown to yive which is Euler 's value .
Ths case when must be excluded , for this would give and the solution obtained is illegitimate the real bending moments not infinite .
The first crippling load is thus where When , so that the moment of inertia at the ends is only 1/ 4 that at the mid-section , this gives Solutions of Poisson 's 's Equations .
For a uniform strut whose moment of inertia is only 1/ 4 that at the midsection of the above strut Hence by tapering the strut to a moment of inertia at the tip equal to 1/ 4 that at the central seition , the strength has been reduced by 16 per cent. The variation in strength does appear to be greatly affected by moderate tapering .
The last formula , therefore , should cover most practical cases .
Solutions 's Eq Part I.\mdash ; By LZONAltD BAIISTO , C.B.E. Part II.\mdash ; By ARTHUR BERRY , M.A. , Fellow of King 's College , Cambridge .
Received In course of a preliminary investigation of fluid motion when viscosity is taken into account , it was found that a solution of Laplace 's equation was obtained in very general form .
The solution gives exact analytical expressions where the conditions of the problem admit of exact solution , but the chief claim to notice arises frolu the extremely general character of the method if graphical and mechanical integration are employed .
The problem has been approached from the ineering standpoint , and the absence of any proof of the convergency of the series developed will immediately be evident to the mathematician .
The justification by trial in particular cases is all that is attempted at the present moment , but in those cases the result is wholly satisfactory .
For the analytical solution of the problems I am indebted to Mr. Arthur Berry who has added a second part to this paper , and has generally acted as helpful critic .
For single closed boundaries of any shape , or for a combination of separate boundaries , the problem of finding a function which satisfies either Poisson 's or 's equation , admits of direct attack for the region inside a single boundary or between boundaries if there be more than one .
For the region outside a single boundary there is a further condition to be satisfied infinitely far from the boundary .
The problems arising in calculating the torsion of solid or hollow cylinders , the flexure of beams , and the motion of an inviscid fluid round a cylinder

