I. " A Description of the Pneumogastric and Great Sympathetic Nves in an Acephalous Fmetus .
" By RO1BEIRT JAMES LEE , Esq. , B.A. Caitab .
Communicated by RtOBERT LEE , M.D. Pteceived November 20 , 1863 .
With Supplement , received Januaiy 20 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The author observes that hitherto no account has been given of the origin and distribution of the par vagum or pneumogastric nerve in any ii-stance of a fttuIs born with brain entirely or partially wanlting .
This reasoln has been thought sufficient for comnmuniicating to the Royal Society the description of a dissection of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves in a fretus born at the full period , in which the cerebellum and medulla oblongata were absent .
At the time of birth it cried , moved , and for the space of on1e hour might be said to live .
All the thoracic and abdominal , iscera were found properly formed , and the upper and lower extremities properly developed .
The eyes , niose , and mouth were present .
The head , when regarded as a whole , seemed as though the posterior and superior parts had been entirely removed , thus leaving the spinal cord and base of the slkull exposed .
Some tough cerebral matter , covered only by a dense membrane , was seen in two small masses exposed in the cranium , not continluous with the spinal cord ( which terminated abruptly at the base of the craniium and was enitirely exposed at this point ) , but separated from it by a bony prominence arising from the floor of the cranial cavity .
After the removal of the extremities , the abdomeln was opened and the viscera of the abdomilnal cavity removed .
The anterior halves of the ribs were cut away , and the thorax with its contents washed and immersed in alcohol .
The dissection was conducted in that liquiid , with theassistance of an ordinary lelns magnifving six diameters .
The pneumogastric nerve having been traced down the neck and thorax , was found to be distributed in the usual way .
Its several ganglia , its communications with the sympathetic , and its branches to the larynx , trachea , bronchi , and oesophagus , appeared in no respect different from what is their usual condition in a perfectly formed foetus of the same age .
Certain ganglionic enlargements formed on the superior laryngeal and recurrent nerves were likewise seen as they have been described by Dr. Robert Lee .
Respecting these two principal branches of the pneumogastric in the neck , the author observes that , if they be separately examined , each will be found to be composed of two portions-one descending , the other lascending-which unite and form a single cord to be again divided into ; many filaments for the supply of various parts .
From this he concludes that the pneumogastric is not derived from the brain ; for otherwise we should expect to find branches from it composed only of descending fibres , whereas we find its two chief branches equally made up of fibres from above and from below .
The hypoglossal , glossopharyngeal and communicating branch of the accessory of the eighth pair were disposed as usually .
The sympathetic nerve was also dissected in the neck and thorax , and found to present its usual arrangement ; but , besides its commonly recog .
nized ganglia , the author discovered certain other bodies connected with it in the thorax , which he considers to be nervous ganglia , and which he thus describes:- " Just beneath the costal pleura some small stellate bodies are seen lying internal to the ganglia of the sympathetic , and at variable distances from them .
Their size is that of a small pea , colour pink , and structure apparently nervous .
From the circumference of one of them , fine vessels or nervous tubes are seen to radiate and join in some cases the ganglia of the sympathetic .
In the angles of the rays are some pigmentary particles of brown colour , not connected , however , with the central mass .
Many of these bodies are found in different parts of the thorax ; and there can be no doubt of their nature , from their intimate connexion with the sympathetic .
" The dissection of the nerves supplying the stomach , liver , and alimentary canal was completed in those viscera removed , with the heart and lungs , from a foetus of six months in which neither brain nor spinal cord were present .
The stomach had numerouis filaments ramifying on its surface , which could be traced down to the lining membrane .
Similarly the liver was found to be pervaded with numerous fibres which followed generally the course of the blood-vessels .
Portions of the intestinal canal of the foetus first described were examined ; so that there is every reason to believe that this foetus was supplied with nerves in the neck , thorax , and abdomen in the same manner as one endowed with those parts thought most essential to life , the cerebellum and medulla oblongata .
Since the foregoing paper was communicated , the author has had the opportunity of examining two anencephalous foetuses which had been preserved for many years in the Museum of St. George 's Hospital .
In the first specimen examined the bones forming the roof and sides of the cranium were wanting , as well as the greater part of the basis behind the foramen magnum ; the brain was absent , and the bony cavity was not formed .
In this iinstance nerves were seen passing through foramina in the basis of the cranium .
There was no spinal canal , though a membrane from which nerves proceeded occupied the position of the spinal cord .
At the commencement of this there was a round body of the size of a small bean , of nervous substance , which was exposed most clearly before the preparation was removed from the bottle in which it had been preserved .
The connexion was easily seen between this body and the spinal membrane , and nerves proceeded from its under surface in different directions .
There were small pieces of cartilage , apparently portions of vertebrae , found here and there in the spinal region , but there was no sacrum , and the rectum was exposed , Such were the general appearances presented by this foetus .
In other respects it was well developed .
The large venous and arterial vessels were seen to supply appropriate parts .
The pneumogastric nerves were traced by following their branches in the neck upward and downward .
That on the left side was seen perforating the floor of the cranium , with a ganglionic enlargement formed on it soon after it issued from the canal , and thence passing downwards to supply the usual organs .
The nerve on the right side was not clearly traced through the floor of the cranium ; but as there was an opening corresponding to that on the left side , there is no reason to doubt the similarity between the two nerves .
A question which naturally presented itself on perceiving the small round body described above , was whether this might not correspond to the medulla oblongata .
That this is not probable appeared from the fact that the pneumogastric nerves left the cranium at a distance of nearly two inches from it , and no connexion could be seen to exist between them and that body .
No history has been preserved of this foetus ; so that whether it showed any signs of independent existence cannot be ascertained .
The distribution of the nerves in the thorax presented nothing very abnormal , the various parts being supplied with their proper branches .
The sympathetic nerve was of small size on both sides , and its extent greatly diminished .
The second of these dissections bore some resemblance to the foetus described in the paper , with the exception that there was no trace of cerebral matter whatever .
A membrane from which nerves proceeded was all that was seeu .
There was a proper canal for the spiinal cord , but it had no osseous covering .
The deep groove bifurcated at the cranial extremity into grooves of half its size , which took a direction at right angles to that of the former .
The left pneumogastric nerve was seen passing through the base of the cranium to the surface , where it appeared to have come from the membrane from which other nerves proceeded .
After descending to the cervical region and giving off the recurrent , the principal branch was not continued to the lungs and oesophagus , but directly to the ganglion of the sympathetic in the upper part of the thorax , so that the sympathetic chain of ganglia in the thorax appeared to be simply a continuation of the pneumogastric .
To compensate for this absence of nervous supply on the left side , the nervous plexuses on the roots of the lungs were found to be enormously increased on the opposite side .
A large branch ascended from the solar plexus and united with the divisions of the right pneumogastrici The splanchuiic on this side was large , and was composed of filaments from the upper thoracic ganglia , not merely from those below the sixth .
The action of the heart and the functions of the liver , kidneys , and other organs must have continued during the uterine existence of the faetus .
The author expects to be afforded further means of prosecuting his dissections of the nerves of acephalous monsters , in which case he will communicate the results of his examinations to the Royal Society .

