282 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ June 7 , surface of the skin .
It must be understood that this membrane was quite distinct from the amnion .
The epitrichinm , therefore , is present both in the Lemurs and in the Sloths , but in the former it does not , after the hairy coat is developed , form a complete envelope for the foetus , but is broken up before the termination of the period of gestation into more or less detached flakes of membrane .
III .
" Note on the Coagulation of the Blood .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.D. , M.R.C.P. , Co-Lecturer on Physiology at Guy 's Hospital .
Communicated by Professor Victor Horsley , F.R.S. , \amp ; c. ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution .
) Received May 24 , 1888 .
In a paper read before the Royal Society , April 26th , 1888 , Dr. Halliburton offers some criticism of my views respecting the coagulation of the blood .
In this note I shall briefly summarise and traverse the objections Dr. Halliburton raises to my theory and experiments .
I. Dr. Halliburton suggests that the substance I call A-fibrinogen \#151 ; which I obtained by cooling peptone-plasma\#151 ; is not a normal constituent of the blood plasma , but that it is a precipitate of a hemi-albumose , supposed by him to be present in the peptone \#166 ; which is injected into an animal for the purpose of obtaining peptone plasma .
I do not use Witte 's peptone , as Dr. Halliburton appears to have done , on account of its recognised impurity , but that obtained from Dr. Gruebler 's well-known laboratory in Leipsic .
This peptone is prepared according to Henniger 's method .
A 10 per cent , solution of it in \ per cent , solution of sodium chloride is quite clear after filtration .
It gives no precipitate on cooling to zero .
It disappears wholly from the blood within one or two minutes after injection .
Finally , A-fibrinogen has properties absolutely different from the peptone injected .
Dr. Halliburton appears to think that this substance , A-fibrinogen , exists only in peptone plasma .
I stated in a paper read before the Royal Society in 1885 , " On a New Constituent , " \amp ; c. , that it was also present in salt plasma , and I gave details concerning it in the Croonian MS .
, which is in the archives of the Royal Society .
I explained at length in the paper referred to by Dr. Halliburton , and published in Ludwig 's ' Festschrift , ' 1887 , why there are , as has long been known , two varieties of salt plasma , namely , one containing , as I showed , no A-fibrinogen , this being not 1888 .
] On the Coagulation of the Blood .
spontaneously coagulable , the other containing it , and therefore being spontaneously coagulable .
II .
Dr. Halliburton further asserts , that whereas in the abstract of the Croonian Lecture , I described a body , B-fibrinogen , in the paper in Ludwig 's ' Festschrift , ' published shortly afterwards , this body was not mentioned , or had become identical with the fibrinogen of Hammarsten .
This statement is totally incorrect , for on page 228 of Ludwig 's ' Festschrift ' there will be found a paragraph headed " B-fibrinogen , " and on the following page this passage occurs : " Man sieht also dass das Fibrinogen von Hammarsten in Plasma einen Vorganger hat , welche ancfere Eigenschaften besitzt , und ich bezeichne diese Substanz als ' B-fibrinogen .
' " The differences between the two bodies here referred to are precisely those mentioned in the abstract of the Croonian lecture , and are shortly as follows :\#151 ; ( a. ) B-fibrinogen does not clot with fibrin ferment , but it does clot with leucocytes and other animal and vegetable cells .
( 6 .
) It clots with substances which can be obtained from these animal and vegetable cells in large quantities , by extraction with water .
These substances I call tissue fibrinogens .
( c. ) It further clots with lecithin .
Hammarsten 's fibrinogen , in remarkable contrast with the properties of this body , does not clot with leucocytes or other animal or vegetable cells , nor does it clot with the substances called tissue fibrinogens nor with lecithin .
I would here add that the fibrinogen in most transudation fluids is similar to Hammarsten 's fibrinogen .
I have clearly indicated these differences in previous publications .
III .
With regard to Dr. Halliburton 's remark on the relation of lecithin to clotting , I may say that it not only gives rise to clotting in peptone plasma and cooled plasma , but in a solution of fibrinogen isolated from salt plasma and in the plasma obtained from the blood after the injection of tissue fibrinogen .
In discussing the experiments on the behaviour of cooled blood towards lecithin , Dr. Halliburton does not recount the details of the experiments , and hence he conveys a misleading impression of the same .
It is necessary for these experiments to use a finely particulate and yet thick emulsion of lecithin , for the following very obvious reasons .
The lecithin is insoluble in the salt solution into which the blood is received , and a large quantity of blood being received into a relatively small quantity of the salt solution , the lecithin does not come into contact with all the plasma unless a fine thick emulsion be used .
The fact that fluids free from lecithin produce clotting , in no way disproves the contention that lecithin is an essential factor in coagulation , since every variety of fibrinogen contains lecithin .
Lecithin VOL. xliv .
z 284 Mr. A. M. Gossage .
On the [ June 7 is , next fco proteid , the most widely distributed substance in the animal organism .
As Hammarsten bas well said , " it has been found wherever it has been looked for .
" Whenever I have stated that lecithin is present in any fibrinogen , I have prepared it and tested for it in the way I have previously repeatedly described in the papers Dr. Halliburton quotes .
IV .
The criticisms which Dr. Halliburton passes upon my discovery that tissue fibrinogens cause intravascular clotting when injected into the living circulation , can hardly be regarded seriously ; for he asserts that the tissue fibrinogen is a slimy mass , and causes clotting by mechanically plugging the vessels , whereas if he had repeated my experiments he would have found ( 1 ) that the fibrinogen is not at all slimy , and ( 2 ) that it can hardly be supposed to cause clotting mechanically , since it passes through the right heart , then the capillaries of the lungs , next the left heart and aorta , and finally the capillaries of the alimentary canal before it first causes clotting , i.e.y in the portal vein in the dog .
IV .
" Note on the Volumetric Determination of Uric Acid .
" By A. M. GOSSAGE , B.A. , Oxon .
Communicated by Professor J. Burdon Sanderson , F.B.S. Received May 29 , 1888 .
Dr. Haycraft has recently proposed a method for the volumetric determination of uric acid in urine ( ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' 1885 , 2 , p. 1100 ) which has great advantages over all former methods in that it is much quicker and easier to manage .
The uric acid from 25 c.c. of urine is precipitated by silver nitrate after previous addition of sodium carbonate ( to prevent reduction ) and ammonia ( to dissolve silver chloride , \amp ; c. ) ; this precipitate is then collected , washed , and dissolved in nitric acid , and the amount of silver present in this solution ascertained by Volhard 's method , * , \#171 ; .
, .
titration with ammonium sulphocyanate ; from this the amount of uric acid can be calculated .
** In order to test the accuracy of the process , " he says , " I prepared several solutions of acid urate of sodium of known strength .
To these I added various quantities of common salt , magnesium sulphate , and phosphate of soda in order to imitate as far as possible the urinary secretion .
On estimating the uric acid in these solutions , I obtained wonderfully correct results .
In all cases not much more than a milligramme was lost during the process , and may be simply accounted for by the fact that no salt of uric acid is absolutely i# soluble . . . . .
In order further to test its accuracy , 50 c.c. of urine were divided into two equal portions ; to the first 25 c.c. of solution of acid urate of sodium of known strength were added ; to

