PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY .
June 2 , 1892 .
The Animal Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , General Clerk and Mr. Crookes were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the lists .
The votes of the Fellows present were then collected , and the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society : Armstrong , Robert Young , Lieut.-Col. R.E. Beddard , Frank Evers , M.A. Fleming , Professor John Ambrose , D.Sc .
Foster , Professor Clement Le Never , D.Sc .
Gadow , Hans , M-A .
, Ph. D. Giffen , Robert , LL. D. Gotch , Professor Francis , M.A. , M.R.C.S. Herdman , Professor William Abbott , D.Sc .
Hutton , Capt. Frederick Wollaston .
Joly , John , M.A. Larmor , Joseph , D.Sc .
Miall , Professor Louis C. Peach , Benjamin Never , F.R.S.E. Peddler , Professor Alexander , F.I.C. Waller , Augustus D. , M.D. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 2 , 1892 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; VOL. Lil .
B Major L. Darwin .
On the Method of [ June 2 , I. " On the Method of Examination of Photographic Objectives at the Kew Observatory .
" By Major L. Darwin .
Communicated by Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received April 13 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The paper describes the method of examination of photographic objectives which has been adopted at the Kew Observatory , chiefly on the recommendation of the author .
In selecting and devising the different tests , Major Darwin acted in co-operation with Mr. Whipple , the Superintendent of the Observatory , and was aided by consultations with Captain Abney .
The object of the examination is to enable any one , on the payment of a small fee , to obtain an authoritative statement or certificate as to the quality of an objective for ordinary purposes ; the amount of time that can be devoted to each experiment is therefore strictly limited .
An example is first given of a " Certificate of Examination " snch as would be obtained from Kew , and then the different tests are discussed in detail .
Many of them are done by well-known methods , which need not here be mentioned .
For the greater part of the examination , an apparatus called the " testing camera " is employed , and this is fully described in the paper .
The following are the different items in the Certificate of Examination , including the various tests to which the objective is subjected , or the subjects about which information is given:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) to ( 4 .
) Under these headings are given a description of the objective , the date of receipt , the size of the plate for which the objective is to be examined , \amp ; c. , \amp ; c , Kone o.f this information forms part of the result of the testing .
( 5 .
) Number of Reflecting Surfaces of the Lenses .
( 6 .
) Centering in Mount .
( 7 .
) Visible Defects , such as Veins , Feathers , 8fc .
( 8 .
) Flare Spot .
( 9 .
) Effective Aperture of Stops , which is given for each one supplied with the objective .
In recording the results , it is proposed that the system of numbering recommended by the International Photographic Congress of Paris of 1889 should be adopted .
( 10 .
) Angle of Cone of Illuminatiofyc.\#151 ; Under this heading several useful items of information are given , such as the extreme angle of the field which is illuminated by the objective without reference to definition ; the angle of field which is required to cover the plate of the size for which the objective is being examined ; and , the largest stop of which the whole opening can be seen from the 1892 .
] Examination of Photographic Objectives at Kew .
whole of the plate .
With reference to this last item , it is shown how if a larger stop than the one here named is used , the illumination will fall off very rapidly towards the edges of the plate , whereas there will be no improvement in this respect by using a smaller stop .
( 11 .
) Principal Focal Length.\#151 ; This is found by revolving the camera through a known angle , and measuring the movement of the image of a distant object on the ground glass ; with the testing camera it is so arranged that an angular movement can be given with great ease and accuracy , and that the angle is such that half the focal length is directly read off on a scale on the ground glass .
The observation is made , and the focus adjusted , when the image is at a point some 14 degrees from the axis of the objective , and the effect of distortion and curvature of the field is discussed ; it is proved that the focal length thus obtained , even though it may not be identical with the principal focal length as measured on the axis , is nevertheless what the photographer in reality wants to ascertain .
( 12 .
) Curvature of the Field.\#151 ; The amount of movement of the ground glass to adjust the focus at different parts of the field is measured , and the results are recorded to show the curvature .
A table is given by which it can be seen what is the largest stop which can be used so as to produce negatives up to a certain standard of excellence in definition .
( 13 .
) Distortion.\#151 ; This test depends in principle on ascertaining the sagitta or deflection in the image of a straight line along one side of the plate .
In the discussion it is shown that to give the total distortion near the edge of the plate would not answer practical requirements , and that the proposed method of examination does give the most useful information that can be supplied .
( 14 .
) Definition.\#151 ; This is found by ascertaining what is the thinnest black line the image of which is just visible when seen against a bright back-ground .
It is shown that this is the best method that could be devised of measuring the defining power of an objective , and that it is not open to serious objections on theoretical grounds .
( 15 .
) Achromatism ; .\#151 ; -Under this heading is recorded the difference of focus between an object when seen in white light and the same when seen in blue or red light .
How to estimate approximately the diffusion in the image due to any defect in achromatism is discussed .
( 16 .
) Astigmatism.\#151 ; -This test is performed by measuring the distance between the focal lines at the corner of the plate , and by calculating from the result thus obtained the approximate diameter of the disc of diffusion due to astigmatism .
The reflection of a lamp in a thermometer bulb is employed to give a fine point of light , and the positions of the focal lines are obtained by noting when the image of the object appears as a fine line , first in one direction , and then in another , as the focus is altered .
B 2 4 Animal Remains in the Coal of Nova Scotia .
[ June 2 , ( 17 .
) Illumination of the Field.\#151 ; The method of examination , which is due to Captain Abney , is described .
The question of the falling off of the intensity oi illumination from the centre of the plate is discussed .
II .
" Supplementary Report on Explorations of Erect Trees containing Animal Remains in the Coal-Formation of Nova Scotia .
" By Sir J. William Dawson , F.R.S. Received April 25 , 1892 .
To the memoir which I had the honour to present to the Royal Society on this subject in 1882* I appended a note from Dr. Scudder , of Cambridge , U.S. , so well known for his researches in fossil Insects and Arachnidans , in which he gave a preliminary account of the remains of Arthropods in my collections which I had submitted to him .
He has only in the present year completed his examination of these remains , most of which are very fragmentary , and much damaged by unequal pressure .
The result has been embodied in a Report on Canadian Fossil Insects , now in course of publication by the Geological Survey of Canada .
In this report he will describe from the contents of the Sigillarian stumps extracted by me , with the aid of the grant of this Society , three new species of Myriapoda , making , with the five previously known from these remarkable repositories , eight in all , belonging to two families , Archiulidse and Euphoberidse , and to three genera , Archiulus , Xylobius , and Amynilyspes .
The three new species are Archiulus euphoberioides , Sc. , A. L , Sc. , and Amynilyspes ( sp. ) .
The remains of Scorpions he refers to three species , Mazonia acadica , Sc. , Mazonia ( sp. ) , and a third represented only by small fragments .
The characters of the species referred to Mazonia he considers as tending to establish the generic distinctness of Mazonia from pius .
Dr. Scudder also notices the fragment of an insect 's head containing part of a facetted eye , mentioned in my memoir , and considers it probably a portion of a Cockroach .
Much credit is due to Dr. Scudder for the care and skill with which he has worked up the mostly small and obscure fragments which I was able to submit to him , and which are probably little more than debris of the food of the Amphibians living for a time in these hollow stumps , and devouring such smaller animals as were so unfortunate as to be imprisoned with them .
In this connexion the suggestion of Dr. Scudder is worthy of attention , that the scaly armour of the smaller Microsaurians may have been intended to defend them against the active and venomous Scorpions which were their contemporaries , and some of which were sufficiently large to * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1S82 , p. 621 .

