180 Dr , A. Macfadyen .
' Influence of employed .
The slight divergence on the left-hand side of the curve from that of P is probably due to his colouring matter in the yellow spot .
Attention must be again called to the fact that these curves are practically identical with those obtained by the normal eye when it measures a spectrum of very feeble luminosity , and also agree with 6 e to iz h- / 6 is to ti the results obtained by measuring the diminution of each ray when it first becomes invisible , and making a curve of the reciprocals of the numbers , taking the highest point of it as 100 .
This is clearly shown in Part III , " Colour Photometry."* It may be mentioned the scale of the prismatic spectrum employed is the same in this communication as in that paper , the wave-lengths of each scale number being given in it .
" On the Influence of the Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
" By Allan Macfadyen , M.D. Communicated by Lord Lister , Pres. RS .
Received December 15 , 1899 , \#151 ; Read February 1 , 1900 .
# The experiments of Dr. Horace T. Brown and Mr. EscombeT have shown that no appreciable influence is exerted upon the germinative power of seeds , when exposed for 110 hours to the temperature of * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 183 , 1892 .
f i Roy .
Soc. Proc / vol. 62 , 1898 , p. 160 , the Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
liquid air ( - 183 ' C. to - 192 ' C. ) .
The results were equally negative in the recent experiments of Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer , * in which seeds survived exposure for upwards of six hours to the temperature of liquid hydrogen ( - 250 ' C. to - 252 ' C. ) .
The following investigation on the influence of the temperature of - liquid air on bacteria , was carried out at the suggestion of Sir James 1 Crichton Browne and Professor Dewar .
The necessary facilities were most kindly given at the Royal Institution .
The experiments were I conducted under the personal supervision of Professor Dewar , and he has asked me to put the results on record , although it must be acknowledged that the essential features of the investigation are due to him .
The bacteria employed were selected from the stock of the Jenner Institute of Preventive Medicine , where the results were also controlled .
Pure cultures of the several micro-organisms were employed , and the series included typical representatives of saprophytic and parasitic bacteria .
The organisms chosen possessed varying degrees of resistance to external agents\#151 ; the extremes in this respect being represented by the very sensitive spirillum of Cholera Asiatica and the highly resistant spores of B. anthracis .
Ten organisms were used for the experiments , viz.:\#151 ; B. typhosus , .
B. coli communis , B. diphtheria , Spirillum cholera B. proteus vulgaris , B. acidi lactici , B. anthracis ( sporing culture ) , Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus , B. phosphorescens and Photobacterium balticum .
The cultures of the organisms were young and vigorous , and were tested both on solid and in fluid media , viz.:\#151 ; Nutrient gelatin , agar-agar , potato and peptone broth .
The cultures on these media were simultaneously exposed to the temperature of liquid air for twenty hours ( \#151 ; 182 ' C. to \#151 ; 190 ' C. ) .
They were then carefully thawed and examined .
The results may be briefly stated .
In no instance , whether on solid or in liquid media , could any impairment of the vitality of the micro-organisms be detected .
The fresh growths obtained from the exposed tubes were normal in every respect , and the functional activities of the bacteria were equally unaffected .
The colon bacillus produced its typical effects\#151 ; such as the curdling of milk , the fermentation of sugar and the production of indol ; the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus retained its pigment producing properties and the anthrax spores their pathogenic action on animals .
The photogenic bacteria preserved their normal luminous properties .
These photogenic properties are intimately connected with the functional activities of the cells .
The cells emit light which is apparently produced by a chemical process of intracellular oxidation and the phenomenon ceases with the cessation of their activity .
These organisms therefore furnished a very happy * * Roy .
Soc. Proc./ yol .
65 , 1899 , p. 361 .
VOL. LXVI .
Q 182 Influence of Temperature of Liquid Air on Bacteria .
test of the influence of low temperatures on vital phenomena .
Their cultures , when cooled down in the liquid air for twenty hours , became non-luminous , but on re-thawing the luminosity returned with unimpaired vigour as the cells renewed their activity .
Watery emulsions of the photogenic bacteria , on immersion in liquid air for a few minutes ceased to emit light , but on withdrawal the luminosity reappeared in a very short time .
Strips of filter paper soaked in the watery emulsions and brightly luminous were immersed directly in the liquid air with similar results .
The sudden cessation and rapid renewal of the photogenic properties of the cells , despite the extreme changes of temperature , was remarkable and striking .
The following experiment was made:\#151 ; Fifty litres of the laboratory air about six feet from the ground were liquefied at atmospheric pressure in a glass bulb by means of boiling liquid air in vacuo .
The temperature reached was about - 210 ' C. The bulb was then sealed off , the contents being still at a temperature below zero , and was subsequently opened and washed out with sterile broth .
A series of plate cultures were made from the broth on nutrient gelatin , agar-agar and sugar agar , and were incubated under aerobic and anaerobic conditions at 22 ' and 37 ' C. for a period of ten days .
The anaerobic plate cultures remained sterile .
The aerobic plates yielded forty-four organisms which had survived an exposure to - 210 ' C. The organisms were representative types of those to be usually met with in the air , viz. , moulds , bacilli , cocci , torulae and sarcinaj .
It may also be mentioned that a sample of yeast cell plasma ( Buchner 's zymase ) subjected to - 182 ' C. to - 190 ' C. for twenty hours , retained its peculiar properties unchanged , viz. , as regards the production of C02 and alcohol .
The above experiments show that bacteria may be cooled down to - 190 ' C. for a period of twenty hours without losing any of their vital properties .
Further experiments are in progress with the above-mentioned and with other micro-organisms , exposed to the temperature of liquid air for still longer periods of time , as well as to that of liquid hydrogen .
These experiments will form the subject of a future communication .

