249 1886 .
] On connecting and disconnecting a Receiver .
barometer , and the amount of rainfall supplied to the author by Professor Brioschi of the Capodimonte Observatory .
From the discussion of these tables , it is concluded by the author that there is a striking relationship between the curves which mark sudden changes in atmospheric ' pressure and those which indicate distinct variations in the volcanic activity .
As regards the relation of changes in volcanic activity with the lunar positions , the author speaks with greater doubt , the period over which the observations have extended being insufficient to justify definite conclusions ; but he believes that his observations point to distinct tidal influences as affecting the liquid magma beneath the volcano .
II .
" On an Apparatus for connecting and disconnecting a Receiver under Exhaustion by a Mercurial Pump .
" By J. T. Bottomley , M.A. , F.R.S.E. Communicated by Sir William Thomson , F.R.S. Received March 1 , 1886 .
In experimental work with vacua , and especially with the high vacua given by the Sprengel pump , a connecting tap has often been much wished for which would enable the experimenter to remove a piece of apparatus from the pump for* examination or preliminary experiment , and afterwards to reapply it to the pump without discharging the vacuum .
So far as I am aware nothing satisfactory has hitherto been suggested .
The ground glass stopcocks now made by some of the German and English glass workers are undoubtedly very highly finished ; but sooner or later , even with the best of them , the air begins to work its way round the grinding marks , in spite of lubricants , and , worse than this , when the apparatus under exhaustion has been removed from the pump and gauges , there is no way of knowing whether or not the air is leaking in round the interstices of the ground glass stopcock .
To meet this difficulty , I have recently constructed a mercurial vacuum tap , which is certainly impervious to air , and which will , I think , be found to work easily and conveniently .
In constructing it I have taken advantage of a tap described by Mr. C. H. Gimingham ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " hlo .
176 , 1876 ) , by means of which a piece of apparatus may be disconnected from the pump without discharging the vacuum of the pump ; and thus by means of the complete tap , which I proceed to describe , the apparatus under experiment can be separated from the pump and replaced without either the pump or the apparatus being discharged .
The tap consists of three parts .
AB is a tube containing a glass float , of which the upper end is conical , and ground very carefully at 250 On connecting and disconnecting a .
[ Mar. 18 , aa to fit a conical opening to the npgoing spirit-bore tube AM ; and at M the apparatus which is to be exhausted would be blown on .
At C there is an ordinary cup and stopper , ground to a very perfect fit , and the joint at C is made perfectly air-tight in the usual way by pouring mercury into the cup .
At the lower extremity , of the part CD is a stopper closed at the bottom , but with a fine hole drilled atjp ; and in the tube of the cup EE there is a fine groove cut , which reaches half way up the ground part of the tube and stopper to ; but above p there is a sufficient length of grinding to make a perfect joint.* When the hole p is turned round to meet the groove , there is communication through and through the tap , that is to say , from the * This cup and stopper form Mr. GKmingbam 's ingenious tap .
1886.1 Effects of the Spectrum on Silver Salts .
pump below F to the apparatus attached to M ; but when the opening p is turned away from the groove the pump is cut off .
Suppose now that above p there is a vacuum , and that p is turned round so as to cut off the pump .
Let the stopper at C be cautiously I'aised .
Mercury flows from the cup C , and in the first place fills up the space below , and fresh mercury must be supplied to the cup and the supply kept up .
The whole of the lower part of the space being filled , the mercury rises in the tube C.B , lifts the glass float , and closes the opening aa with great pressure .
To hold up the stopper at C during the flowing in of the mercury requires considerable force with an opening at C of an ordinary size ; but as soon as the whole space from aa down to the bottom of D has been filled , the part of this force which is due to air pressure vanishes , and the stopper may be separated from C safely .
The mercury in the tube AB does not drop out , as the orifice at e is very small ; and thus there is nothing to prevent the apparatus under exhaustion being handled in any way that may be desired .
When the apparatus is to be reconnected with the pump , it is only necessary to replace the stopper in the cup C , and turn the hole p round to meet its groove .
The mercury in the tube AB then drops into the pump .
The float falls into its lowest position , and everything is once more as it was before the removal of the apparatus from the pump .
III .
" Comparative Effects of different parts of the Spectrum on Silver Salts .
" By Captain W. de W. Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1886 .
In 1881 I communicated to the Royal Society ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 33 ) the results of a research I had made on the comparative effects of different parts of the spectrum on the haloid salts of silver , and I pointed out that a mixture of iodide and chloride , and iodide and bromide of silver gave rise to a very curious photographic spectrum , a minimum of action taking place at C , the point where the iodide is mostly affected , two maxima consequently occurring .
3 also gave some theoretical reasons why this should be .
About a year afterwards Herr Schumann , of Leipzic , called in question this result , as applied to bromo-iodide of silver , when the two salts were formed simultaneously , i.e. , when mixtures in water of soluble bromides and iodides were precipitated together by silver nitrate .
He subsequently found that a mixture of the two salts after separate precipitation did give rise to a double maximum .
How my own experiments showed that in either case such double maxima existed , but perhaps

