An Account of two Books : I. Les dix Livres d ' Architecture de VITRUVE , ~ , &amp; traduits nouvellement en Francois , avec des Notes &amp; des Figures ; par Claude Perrault , de l ' Academic Royale des Sciences , &amp; Medecin dela Faculte de Paris .
Imprime a Paris , 1673 .
in fol. THE Ingenious and Learned Author of this Version of Vitruvius , and of the Notes upon him , considering with himself , that one of the Obstacles to the advancement of Architecture was the want of being able to draw the Precepts of that Art out of its true and genuine source , by reason of the great obscurity of Vitruvius , who is the only Writer of the Ancients that we have upon this subject ; did undertake , by a Translation into the French tongue , and by Notes upon the difficult places , and also by illustrating all with Figures , to render this Author more clear and useful to those , that embrace the profession and practice of that Noble Art .
This Interpreter found , that in effect most of the matters contained in Vitruvius being so little understood as they are , had need of an Explication more clear and more exact than the Text we have remaining ; forasmuch as the Author did not , in his opinion , so much endeavour to make it clear as succinct , in the confidence he had that the Figures , added by him would sufficiently explain the matter , and thereby supply what seems to be wanting in the Discourse .
These Figures , saith M. Perrault , were lost by the negligence of the first Transcribers , that could not design , and that probably also did not judge them altogether so necessary ; because the conO o2 templation templation of those Figures having instructed them of the things themselves spoken of in the ~ , it seemed to them intelligible enough ; in like manner as it commonly happens , that we do well enough understand what is said , though obscurely , when the things are clear themselves .
And thus it could hardly be avoided , but that those who afterwards made Copies of those Exemplars that were destitute of Figures , would commit many faults , transcribing things which they understood nothing of .
Nor is it to be wondred , that even.now the most perspicacious Readers of this Author , who not only want the Figures , but in a manner the Text it self , meet with so much difficulty in finding good sense in very many places , in which the change or transposition of a word , or only of a point , hath been able utterly to spoil the Discourse , which was the more liable to an almost irreparable corruption , because the matter of it was more disposed for it than any other .
Now concerning the difficulty that is met with in the Translation of this Vitruvius , that proceeds , in our Interpreters Judgment , from hence , that'tis not easy to find in one and the same person the several different abilities requisite to succeed therein : Forasmuch as the skill of good Literature , and the diligent application to the study of Criticisine , and the inquiry into the signification of Terms of Art , that are with great judgment to be collected out of many ancient Authors , are seldom joined with that genius , which in Architecture , as well as in all other noble Arts , is somewhat like to that different instinct , which Nature alone infuses to every Animal , and which makes them succeed in certain things with a facility , that is denied to those , who are not born for it .
Hence it is , faith our Interpreter , that those who since 160 years have laboured in the Traduction of this Author , ( among whom the chief are , J. Jocondus , Caesar Cisaranus , J. Bapt .
Caporali , Guil .
Philander , Danict Barbaro , Bernardinus Baldus , J. Martin Secretary to the Cardinal de Lenoncour , and J. Goujon Architect of Francis I. and Henry II .
Kings in France , ) have not given satisfaction .
And for the same reason , ( he is pleased to add , ) there may be cause to believe , that this new Version may not produce a much better effect , and that the addition of that little light to what so many great men have to little purpose hitherto endeavoured to give to Vitruvius , may be of little moment in respect of the many difficulties that remain : Yet he dispairs not but that it may be of some use , even to those that are Masters of the Latin Tongue ; and that many , that might be able to understand all that is here explained if they applied their minds to it as he , ( the Interpreter ) hath done , will be very glad not to be obliged to give themselves that trouble .
As for those , that are not skilled in Latin nor Greek , ( who are those for whom chiefly this Version is made , )theInterpreter is of opinion , that they will find in it a facility not to be met with in the former Versions , in which most of the Translators have not taken the pains of explaining the phrases nor the difficult words , but only turned them into the terminations of their language ; others have put into the very Text the explication of the words , which makes it doubtful , whether these interpretations belong to the Text , or whether the Translator have added them .
But this Interpreter hath put this kind of explications in the Margin , where are also found the Greek and Latin words , that could be rendred by French words in the Text .
Mean while , he hath been constrained sometimes to retain the Latin and Greek words in the Text , when they could not be made French but by long circumlocutions ; which yet are explained in the Margin periphrastically .
But the main thing observed in this Translation , are the Notes , giving the explication judged necessary for understanding the Text , which the bare and literal signification of the words that are in the margent would not sufficiently make out .
Great care seems to have been used to change nothing in the Text , nor even in those things that make the reading of it not so pleasing and that are not of any use for understanding the matter treated of .
Mean time the Interpreter hath not scrupled to express the genius of the Latin Tongue in the true genius of the French , yet with a careful endeavour faithfully to deliver the Author 's sense , though not always word for word ; which latter yet he is sollicitous to do , when the obscurity of the matter obliges him to it , leaving it to the sagacious Reader to discover the sense , or to supply it by changing somewhat or other .
Often he proposes his conjectures upon such passages that are manifestly corrupted ; which yet he doth so , as he never puts into the Version the corrections , which his conjectures caused him to make , without giving advertisement thereof in his Notes .
His Corrections are many , he not thinking that an injury to the good opinion men are to entertain of the ability of so great a man as Vitruvius , since , without being positive , our Interpreter only proposes the doubts he hath of the Authors mistaking sometimes ; it not being to be expected , that he who undertakes to explain an Author should be bound to make his Panegyric , nor maintain all he hath written .
In short , the importance of our Interpreters Notes consists in these two things : Either they explain passages only remarquable for their obscurity , and for the trouble which Learned men have taken to clear them ; or they are about other things likewise obscure and difficult , but such as contain precepts necessary and useful to Architecture .
The Figures , which serve for illustration , are done with no ordinary care and elegancy ; amongst which there are , the Representation of the Parisian Observatory , erected by that King for making Celestial and other Natural Observations ; Models of two new Engines for raising heavy burdens , so contrived as to avoid Rubbing , invented by the Interpreter himself ; the one by a Roler , the other by a Lever , p. 280 .
324 .
An Engine for raising water very high and uncessantly , and that in great quantity , without employing any external force ; A Scheme of the Organ of the Ancients ; as also of their Catapultae , and Balistae , the former casting Javelots , the latter Stones .
All Three described by this Interpreter with much learning .
The Models of these Engins and many more , both Ancient and Modern , Monsieur Perraut saith are to be found in the Royal Library at Paris , where those of the Philosophical French Academy keep their ordinary Assemblies .
II .
Anthonii le Grand Dissertatio de Carentia Sensus &amp; Cognitionis in BRUTI S : Londini , apud Joh. Martyn , R. Soc. Typographum , ad Insigne Campanae in Caemeterio D. Pauli , 1671 .
THE Author of this Tract having considered with himself , what it is that hath induced men to believe , that Brutes have knowledge ; which inducements he ascribes to the industry , vivacity , and strange works of sundry of them : And having exploded the Aristotelian definition of the Soul , as extravagant , and unintelligible ; and examined the opinions of Gassendi and Honoreto Fabri of the nature of the fame ; he doth , at length , consonantly to the Cartesian principle , place the Life of Animals in the continued motion of the Blood .
And then having explained , wherein the nature of Knowledge properly consists , and showed , that all true knowledge includes Conscience , he comes to the result , That the Soul of Brutes , whatever it be fancied to be , is destitute of knowledge , strictly so called ; and that Matter is incapable of perception ; as also that Cogitation cannot be truly affirmed of Extension , neither as an Essential part , nor as a propriety , nor as a mode thereof : Refuting Mr. Hobbes , that undertakes to maintain , Cogitation to be a corporeal motion ; and likewise showing against Gassendi , that it is repugnant , Sense should arise from unsensible things .
This done , he shows , that God can make Engins that shall imitate the actions of Brutes ; where he compares a living Dog with an Automatum , made by Art ; and withal discovers the error of those , who from the external form of the parts in Brutes judge them to have knowledge like Men ; showing at the same time the difference between Man and Brutes ; which he places chiefly in two particulars : One is , that Brutes are not endowed with the faculty of speaking , so as by signs to manifest their thoughts , and to answer appositly to such things as are asked of them .
The other is , that , though the motions of such Engins be regulated , and exceed , in certainty , the motions even of the wisest men ; yet they come short of Man , in many of those things in which they should imitate him most .
Here our Author enlarges his discourse by representing , that all Motions in Brutes may be explained by a Mechanical principles ; that by a mere mechanical operation the Blood is carried about the whole body ; that , as the Life of an Animal , so the Concoction of the food depends only from a corporeal principle , as also Sanguification , Nutrition , Respiration ; and that Muscular motion is made by means of the Animal spirits ; the force of which he explains ; and also , from whence they have that great power , whereby they move the whole body .
Having dispatch't so far , he endeavours to make it out , from whence that great diversity of motions arises in Animals , if they have no Soul : where he proves , that even in Man there are many motions , made without the advertency of the Soul , and sometimes even against the will of the Soul .
Then he proceeds to teach , How Sense may be ascribed to Brutes ; but yet adds , that Sense consists not in the motion of Corporeal organs , but in Perception ; and that corporeal motion may be had without Sense ; and that those do greatly mistake , who from outward actions conclude , that Brutes do sentire , as we do .
Where he discusses Dr. Willis 's opinion concerning the Soul and Knowledge of Brutes .
Having thus discoursed , that Brutes are destitute of Sense and Perception , and that no knowledge at all is to be found in their operations , and consequently that the well-contrived structure of the parts , and the exact direction of the Animal spirits through certain and determinat passages , may and must perform all their actions ; He descends to particulars , and labors to make it manifest , that all the Actions of Animals may be explained mechanically .
Where he shows , how Bees make their cells so elegantly ; whence comes the diversity of actions in Brutes ; their kindness and aversion ; their generation ; their care of themselves ; their seeming doubtfulness , craft , ( especially that in Foxes , ) docilness in Doggs , Elephants , &amp;c. their understanding of human speech , and seeming faculty of speaking to one another , &amp;c. Where many things occurr that seem to deserve our consideration .

