1884 .
] Experimental Researches in Cerebral Physiology .
437 March 20 , 1884 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Experimental Researches in Cerebral Physiology .
" By Victor Horsley , M.B. , B.S. , F.R.C.S. , and Edward Albert Schafer , F.R.S. Received March 6 , 1884 .
I. On the Functions of the Marginal Convolution .
( Preliminary communication .
) The present communication is intended to be the first of a series giving the results of an experimental investigation which we are at present engaged upon , into the physiology of the cerebral cortex and its connexion with other portions of the nervous system .
We propose in this way briefly to publish any general results which appear to us to be well enough substantiated , as they are obtained ; reserving most of the details of the experiments for a more complete memoir in which the various facts which may have been accumulated can be collated , and compared with the results obtained by other experimenters .
In the present research we have closely followed the methods employed by Ferrier .
The animals used have been monkeys , most , if not all , some species of Macacque .
In some the portion of the brain under investigation has been stimulated by the interrupted ( induced ) current , and the resulting movements recorded ; in others ( two in number ) the cortex has been removed over the region in question , the removal being effected by the aid of the galvanic cautery and under antiseptic precautions , and the resulting pareses of voluntary movement observed .
It was found disadvantageous to attempt both these observations upon the same individual , partly on account of the relative prolongation of the operation and the consequent danger of losing the animal from the resulting shock , partly because the carbolic spray which is used when it is intended to preserve the animal , appears temporarily to depress the functions of the portions of the cortex which are exposed to its influence , and either no reaction is obtained on stimulating them or a stimulus must be employed so 2 u 2 438 Messrs* V ; Horsley and E. A. Schafer .
[ Mar. 20 , strong as to involve the risk of its spreading to neighbouring parts The anaesthetic used has generally been ether , sometimes mixed with chloroform ; in one case in which morphia had been employed the results of stimulation were much interfered with by the drug .
The induction coil used is of the du Bois-Reymond pattern , with the Neef interrupter ; and the Helmholtz side-wire is always introduced for the purpose of equalising the effects of the make and break shocks .
The electrode wires are carefully guarded except at their points , which project slightly on one side , and the electrodes are so constructed as to pass between the falx and the mesial surface of the brain with as little disturbance as possible .
We have for the most part throughout all our experiments taken care only to employ an excitation just sufficient to call forth the activity of the part of the brain immediately under the electrodes .
The best physiological test of the strength of the interrupted current consists in placing the electrodes on the tongue , and many of our results have been got with a stimulus which is only just perceptible when tested in that manner .
Results so obtained are of the greatest value for the purpose of localising the function of a part , because under these circumstances there can be no question that the current does not spread beyond a very small area ; and with such a minimal stimulus applied for but a short time it is not unfrequently found that but a single muscle , or at most two or three , generally in succession , are called into action .
But for thus exactly localising centres for individual muscles a much larger number of experiments will be necessary than we have up to the present been able to make ; we will , therefore , reserve for a future communication , in which we hope to deal more fully with this question , the few positive results of this kind that we have obtained , and here only consider the more general movements called forth by excitation of particular parts of the convolution .
We have in this way explored the mesial surface of the hemisphere , or rather the marginal convolution of that surface , for it soon appeared evident that on other parts of the mesial surface positive results were not to be expected from electrical excitation .
We have ascertained that the excitation of definite localised portions of this convolution gives rise to the contraction of perfectly definite groups of muscles , or in some cases of single muscles , producing more or less co-ordinated movements of the trunk and limbs , in the same manner as has been shown by Eerrier and others to be the case with excitation of localised portions of the external surface of the hemisphere .
We can best explain the extent of the excitable portion of the marginal gyrus by reference to certain easily recognisable furrows on the external surface of the hemisphere .
One of the most conspicuous of these is the furrow of Rolando , which , as in man , terminates superiorly near the margin of the hemisphere , a little in front of the posterior i 1884 .
] Experimental Researches in Cerebral Physiology .
439 up-turned end of the calloso-marginal sulcus on the mesial surface .
Behind the furrow of Rolando and opposite this end of the calloso-marginal furrow there is a small , but constant , obliquely-placed depression ( fig. l , z ) , which serves to mark the separation between the ascending parietal gyrus and the parietal lobule .
In front of the furrow of Rolando , and separated from it by the upper end of the ascending frontal gyrus , is another small depression ( a ?
) , also extremely constant in occurrence , although varying considerably in development , having a direction parallel to the margin of the hemisphere , from which it is a few millimetres removed .
Still further forward , and at a much greater distance from the margin , is the well-marked transverse frontal furrow , the antero-posterior limb of which ( tr.fr ) is shown in the figure .
And in front of this again is another small and apparently unimportant depression ( fig. 1 , y ) , but very constant in the Macacques , which has a transverse direction , .
, perpendicular to the hemisphere-margin , and which , in some instances , comes nearly up to the margin , conducting a considerable vein towards the longitudinal sinus .
The excitable portion of the marginal convolution extends from about opposite this small transverse sulcus ( F ) backwards along the whole length of the convolution .
In front of the level of the sulcus y no movements are , as a rule , obtained as the result of electrical excitation .
A remarkable relation was found on the whole to hold good between different parts of this convolution and the parts of the body thrown into movement by their excitation , to the effect , namely , that when the stimulus was applied anteriorly the resulting movements affected the upper limbs ( and in one or two instances muscles of the head and neck ) ; when applied near the middle of the excitable part of the convolution , the muscles chiefly or primarily affected were those of the trunk ( erector spinse , abdominal muscles , \amp ; c. ) , whilst , when applied posteriorly , muscles of the lower limb alone were called into action .
Indeed , it appears probable that , if we regard only the results of minimal excitations , and especially if we take into account only those muscles which are primarily called into action , this rule will prove to obtain in a still more special manner , and that we may arrange the movements which are produced by stimulation of points which succeed one another from before back in the following order , viz. : 1 .
Movements of the forearm .
2 .
Movements of the humerus and scapula .
' 3 .
Movements , chiefly rotation and flexion , of the upper part of the trunk .
4 .
Movements of the lower part of the trunk and abdomen .
5 .
Movements of the pelvis .
6 .
Movements at the hip .
7 .
Movements at the knee .
8 .
Movements at the ankle-joint .
9 .
Movements of the toes .
The general results of our experiments will best be understood by a reference to the accompanying figure ( fig. 1 ) .
Thus , in the part of 440 Messrs. V. Horsley and E. A. Schafer .
[ Mar. 20 the marginal convolution marked I , I ' , extending from just in front of the small vertical sulcus yto a point on a level with the anterior third of the small antero-posterior sulcus x , excitation is followed by either movements of the forearm ( flexion or extension ) or by adduction of the arm and retraction of the shoulder combined with outward rotation , or by any of these movements of shoulder and arm either com-bined or succeeding one another in definite order , according to the point in the area which is stimulated .
Retraction of the shoulder ( combined with flexion of the forearm ) is alone produced by excitaFig .
1 .
tion of the posterior portion of this area , and when manifested as the result of excitation applied here , is apt to be associated with movements of the trunk , pelvis , or hip , which , as the overlapping of the contours of the areas shows , may also be called forth by excitation of this part .
In the next area , II , II ' , we get movements of the trunk muscles as the result of excitation , the chief effect produced being a rotation of the body to the opposite side to that stimulated , combined with an arching of the spine , with the concavity directed towards the opposite side .
In the anterior part of the area the chief effect is upon the dorsal region , but in the posterior part it is upon the lumbar region and pelvis .
1884 .
] Experimental Researches in Cerebral Physiology .
441 This area is largely overlapped by the next one , III , III ' , excitation within which is followed by movements of the hip , at some points the flexors only , at others the extensors only , at others both sets of muscles being called into contraction simultaneously .
As will appear from the overlapping of the areas in the figure , these movements of the hip are apt to be associated with the rotatory and bending movements of the trunk above- mentioned ; but in the anterior part of the area it is generally the rotation of the trunk and pelvis which is first seen , and this is followed by hip movements , whereas in the centre of the area movements of the hip may be the first to appear , or with a very weak excitation may be the only ones visible .
The next area , .
IV , IV ' , is very extensive .
It considerably overlaps the areas II , II ' , and III , III ' , and extends to the posterior limit of the convolution .
Its excitation calls up contractions of the thigh muscles , and especially of the hamstrings , which in some parts are the only muscles affected by weak stimulation\#151 ; indeed , in some instances the contractions of the individual hamstring muscles were perfectly localised .
But in most parts of the area , as the overlapping of the contours shows , these movements are associated with those of other muscles , viz. , anteriorly with the trunk and hip muscles , and posteriorly with muscles which move the ankle and toes .
These associated movements may be simultaneous , but are most commonly successive , as when by stimulation of one point there was produced , first a contraction of one of the abdominal muscles , , then of one of the thigh muscles , and then of one of the muscles which move the ankle .
In like manner the area marked V , V ' , .
may be looked upon as the specialised part from which the movements of the ankle are controlled , these being usually the first to appear on exciting the area , although very generally associated with or followed by movements of the hip and knee .
And VI , VI ' , - may for a similar reason be looked upon as specially controlling certain movements of the toes , generally associated , howeverj .
with other movements of the lower limb .
As before mentioned with regard to the other areas , the particular movements called forth differ according to the point in the area which is excited , but our experiments do not as yet enable us to make sufficiently positive assertions as to the localisation of these specialised points .
In the two animals from which the excitable portion of the marginal convolution has been removed , the resulting pareses of voluntary movement , so far as these can be determined , are precisely such as might be expected to occur from removal of those portions of the cortex by which the voluntary movements of the muscles which are called into action by stimulation of this convolution may be assumed to be governed .
Since , however , as Ferrier has shown , certain of the muscles are also caused to contract by excitation of portions of the external surface , the paralysis of these would not be so complete as of 442 The Apex of the Leaf in Osmunda and lodea .
[ Mar. 20 those -which are solely connected with this convolution .
Accordingly it is found that there is a considerable difference in the amount of paralysis for voluntary movement produced in the different muscles and especially that some of them are found to undergo a considerable amount of recovery in the course of a relatively short time , while others remain permanently and completely paralysed .
The paralysis ( for volitional impulses ) is most pronounced in the muscles of the toes and hind feet , and in the hamstrings and glutsei .
The paresis is sufficiently obvious , hut less marked in the arm-muscles than in those of the lower limb , while in the trunk-muscles it is extremely difficult to determine what movements are purely voluntary , what are associated movements , and wffiat are purely reflex movements .
We are unable , therefore , " to say positively how far the influence of the will over these muscles has been abolished by the establishment of the lesion.* Tt will , " therefore , be more advantageous to defer the complete account of the condition of " these animals until the opportunity is afforded by post mortem examination of verifying the extent of the lesion and of tracing the resulting secondary degenerations .
II .
" Preliminary Note on the Apex of the Leaf in Osmunda and Todea .
" ( From the Jodrell Laboratory , Royal Gardens , Kew .
) By F. 0 .
Bower , F.L.S. Communicated by W-T .
Thiselton-Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received March 7 , 1884 .
It has long been accepted , in accordance with the investigations of Sadebeck , that there is at the apex of the young leaf of the fern a two-sided , wedge-shaped , apical cell , and that , after this cell has lost its identity by periclinal , and subsequently by anticlinal divisions , the growth of the leaf is continued at the margin by the persistent activity of a linear series of marginal cells .
It is true that this is the mode of development of many fern-leaves , but , as my observations show , it does not apply for all cases , while those exceptional cases are particularly interesting as occupying an intermediate position in this , as also in other , respects between the true ferns , on the one hand , and the Marathacece and Cycadece on the other .
It is among the Osmun- * Since the above was -written we have removed in two other animals the excitable portions of the external surface , in addition to the excitable portion of the marginal convolution .
Complete hemiplegia has been the result j the paralysis affecting not only the muscles of the limbs but also those of the head and neck and of the trunk , whereas in animals in which only the excitable portions of the external surface ( the motor regions of Ferrier ) have been removed the paralysis is but partial , and confined chiefly to muscles of the limbs.\#151 ; ( Note added March 20 , 1884 .
)

