O BSERVATIONS Concerning Emmets or Ants , their Eggs , Production , Progress , coming to Maturity , Use , &amp;c. This was communicated by Doctor Edmund King , Fellow of the R. Society , at the Instance of the Publisher , as follows .
1 .
THere have occurred to my Observation but three sorts of Ants , commonly without Wings ; vid .
Very Black , Dark Brown , and the third sort of near the colour usually called Philemort .
2 .
Each kind inhabit by themselves in their several Banks ; two sorts seldom or never being found together ; and if either of the other two sorts be put into the black Ants Bank , it is worth observing , what enmity there is betwixt these little Creatures , and with what violence the Black ones will seize on the Red , never leaving to pinch them on the head with their Forceps or Claws , till they have killed them upon the place : which done , they will carK kk ry ry them dead out of the Field , from their Bank .
But if you put Black Ants into a Bank of the Red , the Black seem to be so sensible of the strangeness of the place they are in , that there they will not meddle with the Red , but as if they were frighted , and concerned for nothing but self-preservation , run away .
3 .
Upon opening of these Banks , I observe first a white substance , which to the bare eye looks like the scatterings of fine white Sugar or Salt , but very soft and tender ; and if you take a bit of it , as big perhaps as a Mustard-seed , and lay it on the Object-plate of a good Microscope , you may by opening it with the point of a Needle , discern many pure , white and clear appearances in distinct Membrans , all figured like the lesser sort of Birds Eggs , and as clear as a Fishes Bladder .
This same substance as it hath been just now described , I find in the Ants themselves , which I take to be the true Ants Eggs ; it being obvious to observation , that where ever this is uncovered , they make it their business to carry it away in their mouths to secure it , and will after you have scattered it , lay it on a heap again with what speed they can .
4 .
I observe they lie in multitudes upon this ( if I may so call it ) Spawn of theirs ; and after a little time , every one of these small adherances is turned into a little Vermicle , as small as a Mite , hardly discerned to stir ; but after a few days more , you may perceive a feeble motion of flexion and extension , and they begin to look yellowish and hairy , shaped very like a small Maggot ; and so , keeping that shape , grow almost as big as an Ant , and have every one a black spot on them .
5 .
Then they get a Film over them , whitish , and of an Oval shape , for which reason I suppose they are commonly called Ants Eggs , which yet ( to speak properly ) they are not .
6 .
I have , to prevent mistakes , opened many of these vulgarly called Ants Eggs , I mean , the lesser sort , ( for there are some as big as a Wheat-corn , others less then a Rye-corn ) and in some I find only a Maggot , to appearance just such as was described before : In others , I find a Maggot beginning to put on the shape of an Ant about the head , with two little yellowy specks where the Eyes are designed : In others , a further progress , and furnished with every thing to complete the shape of an Ant , but wholly transparent , the Eyes only excepted , which are then as black as black Bugles .
7 .
But when they have newly put on this shape , I could never discern the least motion in any one part of the little Creature , whereof the reason may perhaps be , the weakness of their Fibres ; for after a little more time , when they begin to be brownish , they have strength to stir all their parts .
8 .
At last I met with some of these reputed Eggs , which being carefully opened by me , I took out of several of them , every way perfect and complete Ants , which did immediately creep about among the rest , no way differing from many other Ants , but by a more feeble motion of their Limbs .
And this I took for a clear demonstration of what I designed , which was to know , That the Film does only cover the Maggot , while she is transforming into an Ant , and fit to shift for her self .
9 .
The black speck that is at one end of every such reputed Ants Egg , I suppose to be cast out of the Maggot in her transformation ; since , after it puts on the shape of an Ant , the Speck is quite gone , and the whole body of the Ant pure clear ; since also this Speck at the end of the said Egg , lies always close to the Anus of the included Ant. 10 .
As to their care for their Young ( by which I mean all the sorts and degrees aforesaid , from the Spawn to the vulgarly called Eggs , in every one of which you 'll find a young Ant ) it is observable , How upon the breaking up of their Banks , they make it their business immediately to carry their Young out of sight again , laying the several sorts of them in several places and heaps : the which if you mingle again or scatter , you shall , laying but some bits of Slate , or the like , in any place they may come to and get under , after a few hours see all the Vermicles , and vulgarly called Eggs , laid in their several and distinct parcels , under such pieces of Slate , &amp;c. Provided the place be not so cold as to chill their Limbs ; which if it be , by being brought to the fire they will soon recover their strength , and fall to their business again , of securing their little Ones .
11 .
I have observed in Summer , That in the Morning they bring up those of their Young ( that are vulgarly called Ants Eggs ) towards the top of the Bank ; so that you may from Ten in the Morning , until Five or Six Afternoon , find them near the top ; especially about One , Two , or Three of the Clock , and later , if the Weather be hot , when for the most part they are found on the South-side of the Bank : that towards Seven or Eight at Night , if it be cool , or likely to rain , you may dig a foot deep before you can find them .
They know all the sorts of their Young so well , that you cannot deceive them , though you may with fine Sugar , Salt , or the Crums of very white stale Bread , scattered in the Mould , where their first true Eggs are ( as I call them ) be mistaken your self , yet the Ants will not , nor touch a bit of what is not their own Off-spring .
13 .
I cannot pass by the Use of Ants in feeding young Pheasants and Partridges , they being the principal Food of these Birds , both wilde and tamed , for several weeks , as is well known to all that are versed in breeding them up .
And a chief reason , why many find it so nice a thing to breed up the said Birds , is , that either they give them too sparingly of this Food , or let them fast too long , not knowing , that as soon it is day-light , they will seek it for their Breakfast , and if they want it , will in a few hours be faint and weak , and some grow so chill for want of that supply of Nourishment , that it is no easy matter to recover them .
14 .
But ( to add this by the by ) Though these Insects be so good a Food to these Birds , whilest very young ; yet when by ill ordering of those that should keep them sweet , and often shift their water , or by ill Diet , as musty Corn , &amp;c. they grow sick ; then Ants will not always recover them , though you give them never so many : And I have been forced to make use of other Insects to cure them , to wit of Millepedes and Earwigs , either of which will do good , but both together , better ; given in a good quantity , two or three times , at least , a day ; but then those other things must be observed too , of keeping their House clean , and giving them sweet Corn , and shifting their water twice a day , keeping them within , till the Dew be from the ground , letting them bask in Sand , partly in the Sun , the place a little shaded , and putting them up in a warm house before Sun-set .
Which particular I thought not amiss to add for those that delight in breeding up Pheasants and Partridges , my self having jost many of both sorts , till I learned that Virtue of those Insects ; after which , seldom any of them , by me intended to be bred up , have died .

