Philosoph. Transact. Number , 168 .
d Fig.1 .
e Fig.3 .
c AB d A Letter from William Molyneux Esq. Secretary of the Philosophical Society of Dublin , to a S. of the R. S. giving an account of the ConnoughWorm .
I Here send you enclosed the figures of our Connoughworm , which is reported to be the only poisonous Animal in our Kingdom ; but whether it be really so , or not , I cannot assert on my own experience .
That from which the figures were taken , was sent alive to me , from the Country , about 40 .
miles from Dublin .
The Gentleman that sent it , had kept it above six weeks in a large Box on a Grassy sod , now and then giving it a fresh sod , and Ragwort to eat , besprinkling them with Dew .
Before I could get the figures taken , the creature was so unquiet , I was forced to stifle it , as Huswives do their Bees , with the fume of sulphur .
When the Gentleman first took it , it was much smaller then when he sent it to me ; And had I been at the trouble of keeping it , it might have been yet much larger ; some of them being as thick as a Mans thumb , and above three Inches long , and some live so long as to have fine hair thinly dispersed over their bodies .
Immediately upon my receipt thereof , I writ to the same Ingenious Gentleman that sent it me , proposing some Queries to him concerning it , the chief whereof were , whether he had any certain Experiment to prove them Venomous ?
What Symptoms attended the Beasts affected by them ?
And what cures were applied to them ?
To the first , his answer was to this effect , that he had consulted the experienced People of the Country , who all agree in asserting the Animal poisonous , but he knew none that had made a satisfactory experiment thereof , none being able to say they ever saw a beast eat it , or stung by it .
And yet for his own Opinion , he was apt to think , that the Animal was pernicious , if eaten by a beast .
For first , the disease imputed to this Creature seldom or never affects the Cattle but in Autumn , and then only this Insect is to be found ; secondly it seldom or never attends any Cattle but what feed in low Marshy grounds , and there only this Animal frequents ; Thirdly Cows who are greedy feeders by great Morsells ( by reason of their chewing it afterwards in their Cud , ) but especially Swine that feed in low grounds , are the only Creatures troubled by this Worm ; Fourthly , the Worm is very rare and scarce to be found in seven years , and so likewise is the distemper that proceeds from it , it being rare to have a Beast affected by it .
As to the symptoms that attend its Venom , they are swelling in the Head , and ( as a peculiar Characteristic , the swelling and Procidentia Any , insomuch that the Rectum will hang out above half a foot .
The effectual cure applied to this Malady in black Cattle , is a Drench of the Herb Bears-foot , Rue , Garlic , butter and beer ; but for Swine , Raddle pounded small mingled with Buttermilk .
These only are used by the English Husbandmen .
But the Irish , as they certainly impute the Malady to this Insect , so they draw the Remedy therefrom , for they assert , that if an hole be bored in a Tree , and this Creature stopped up therein , so as to starve and dye , the leaves and bark of that Tree ever after infused in water , and given as a Drench , cures the affected Beast ; and several will repair to such a Tree ten miles for a cure .
Another fancy ( &amp; as ill grounded , ) they have , that if a Man bruise this Worm between his hands , and let the expressed juice dry thereon , ever after the water he first washes in , in the morning , given to the Beast to drink , cures it .
And the Worthy Gentleman that sent me the Worm , tho~ he be far from giving credit to the cure , yet for the satisfaction of his poor Neighbours , did several years ago bruise one of these Worms in his hands , and ever since he has been often applied to from several parts of the Country for his Virtue , and the People go away well satisfied , assuring him ( when he asks them afterwards , ) that the Remedy proved very effectual on their afflicted Beast .
But that I may give you my own sentiments , I am very apt to suspect that this Worm is no more poison then other Catterpillers ( for it is of the Catterpiller kind , ) and I believe , in Godartius of Insects , lately englished by the most learned and ingenious Dr. Lister , you will find the very same Animal as this I speak of ; but at present I have not that book by me , having sent it to my Brother in Holland .
I never had , or have seen , but this one , and so I would make no experiment therewith , being forced ( as I told you , ) to kill it .
But I verily believe that the Ugliness of the Worm ( it being of a dark fuscous , and as they say , poisonous colour , ) together with its largeness beyond common Catterpillers , has wrought so upon the fearful and ignorant Vulgar , that they have given it the name of Venomous .
As to the Gentlemans forementioned Reasons , they are but conjectures , and as such I submit them to your judgment ; and my negative opinion has much the same foundation , for I find the People of our Country much in the wrong in some particulars relating to the Animal , which makes me suspect they may be in an error relating to its poison .
For first tis commonly asserted by them , that the two spots marked dd Fig : 1 .
are Goggle Eyes , whereas they are nothing more then two Variegated spots of a colour different from the rest of the Back .
Secondly , they assert likewise , that the part marked e Fig : 1 .
is a sting , whereas this Protuberance in the Tail is common with it to several other Catterpillers , and the greater the Catterpiller , the larger this Horn .
So that if their fear or abhorrence of the Worm may make them believe those parts Eyes that are not , and that part a Sting , which is not at all like it , contrary to the plain View of the Creature ; It may likewise make them imagine it poisonous , when it is no such thing .
But yet I will not conceal what I have from another Gentleman ( but with some diffidence of the Experiment , ) he gave the juice of one of these Worms to one Dog , which showed no alteration thereon , but another Dog , to whom he gave the skin of the Creature , was found dead three days after ; but whether his death proceeded from the poisonous skin , he could not assert ; for the Dog ran at liberty , and might have been kild ( for ought as he knew , ) by some other Accident , tho ' no external sign of any Violence offered to him did appear .
But leaving these conjectures , I come to what is evident to the senses ( and experimental Philosophy ought to go no farther , ) the explanation of the Figures .
Fig. 1 .
AB .
the Worm lying on his Belly , long 2~ Inches almost .
c. his head .
dd .
two Variegated spots mistaken for Eyes .
e. a small Protuberance towards its Tail , from whence arises a part in shape of a horn , mistaken for a Sting .
Fig. 2 .
Represents the Worm Reclined almost on his back .
F.His mouth formed like that of other Caterpillars , as appeared in the Microscope .
gg , &amp;c. six small horny feet or Claws , 3 on each side , as in other Caterpillars .
hh , &amp;c. Eight Papillae , with which he fastens himself to what he goes or hangs on , as Childrens suckers are fastned to wet stones .
ii .
Two larger Papillae , with which he does both suck himself fast , but most commonly therewith he grasps the stems of Grass and Herbs , to which he clings with the other .
P. S. Since the writing of this Letter , I have again seen Godartius ofInsects , and in him I find , ( as I surmised , )our Connought Worm , described by the Name of the Elephant Catterpillar , Numb. 125 .
or 126 Yours Will .
Molineux .
H Part of

