[ 141 ] V. Researches on the Structure , Organization , and Classification of the Fossil Reptilia.\#151 ; TIT .
On Parts of the Skeleton of a Mammal from Triassic Rocks of Ii lipfontein , Fraserberg , South Africa ( Theriodesmus phy larch us , Seeley ) , illustrating the Reptilian Inheritance i the Mammalian Hand .
By H. G. Seeley , F.R.S. , Professor of Geography King 's College , London .
Received October 24 , \#151 ; Read November 24 , 1887 .
[ Plate 26 .
] Among specimens collected from various localities in Cape Colony by Mr. Thomas Bain , and deposited in 1878 in the British Museum of Natural History , is a small counterpart slab , 8 inches long by 5^ inches wide , now registered under the number 49,392 .
It was labelled by its discoverer " The hand of a Saurian , from Klipfontein , Fraserberg , South Africa " ; and this determination escaped question .
Its exact geological horizon is unfortunately unknown , hut is probably the same as that of the Dicynodont Beptiles collected with it , which are on many grounds regarded as Triassic .
This slab is a natural mould of the bones of the fore-limb of one of the smaller Mammalia characterised by five digits .
It also shows , in less satisfactory preservation , remains of the tibia and fibula , which are relatively longer than the corresponding bones of the fore-limb .
The animal thus indicated was considerably larger than the Otter , and approximated to the dimensions of the Wolverine .
In their general shape and elongation , the limb bones , as a whole , approximate to the smaller Carnivora , but are distinguished by many differences of detail .
Thus , the bones of the fore-arm are more nearly equal in size , though the difference is one of degree rather than type ; and the same is true of the bones of the fore-leg .
But , except the tibia , and possibly the humerus , none of the bones give evidence of having terminated in epiphyses , and the forms of the distal ends of the ulna and radius are unlike those found in Carnivora .
The carpus also shows some new points , though the bones are displaced , in giving evidence of a third row of carpal bones .
The phalangeal bones of the digits , also , vary from the usual Mammalian type , and possibly , in one digit , give evidence of renewal after the digit had been lost , as among Amphibians .
The vertebral column is only indicated by a portion of a single caudal vertebra .
None of the differences , however , which the specimen shows from the skeletons of existing 23.7.88 Mammals can be regarded as making an approximation towards lower Vertebrates in the plan of the skeleton , or as throwing a doubt on the interpretation of the animal as a typical Mammal ; but as evidences of inheritance , the carpus , metacarpus , and digits are singularly suggestive .
I would express my thanks to Dr. Henry Woodward for permission to study and describe this remarkable fossil , and for his assistance in preparing the beautiful cast from the slab which was made by Mr. Hall , the mason , after the specimen had been cleared from some fragments of the original bone which adhered to the natural mould .
The Humerus .
In the impression from the slab the humerus is crossed by the tibia and fibula , so that only its proximal and distal parts are shown : the middle parts of the shaft have been contained in the corresponding slab .
The bone is 11*5 centims. long .
It is twisted , so that the proximal end is turned inward at an angle of about 45 ' .
Hence the distal end is shown in profile from the outer side , while the proximal end shows the expanded width of the bone , which is comparatively flattened , with a moderate side-to-side convexity .
The part of the proximal end which is exposed has an anteroposterior extent of 4T centims. It is nearly straight on the anterior border , slightly concave on the posterior border , 3*2 centims. wide at the proximal end as preserved , and 1 *7 centim. wide at the distal limit of the exposure .
The proximal contour , owing to the shallowness of the impression probably , gives but an imperfect conception of the form of the proximal end of the bone .
The proximal articular surface is very imperfectly preserved .
What remains of it is convex from front to back , and 2 centims. wide .
Its anterior extension is apparently compressed on the ulnar side , with the small hemispherical convexity of the articular head in the middle , somewhat thickened and extended inward , so as to rise convexly above the surface of the impression .
Anterior to this boss is a saddle-shaped depression , concave in length and concave transversely , and then a small trochanteroid process rises , which extended to the border of the bone .
The distal exposure of the humerus shows its thickness to have exceeded 7 millims. The fragment seen is 3*1 centims. long .
The anterior and posterior sides are subparallel till the distal extremity is reflected forward in the trochlear condylar articulation .
The inner surface of the bone is somewhat flattened , and marked by a groove which ascends from the median lateral extremity of the distal condyle , and , extending upward and backward with a slightly concave curve for 2 centims. , obliquely crosses the shaft .
The slight elevation , of this ridge causes all the distal part of the bone posterior to it , which forms the convex posterior part , to be wider transversely than the part of the shaft in front of it .
This ridge is not closely paralleled by any structure known to me in the distal end of any humerus .
Its direction is the reverse of the band which extends over the epicondylar humeral foramen in many Mammals , though it coincides with the direction of the vessel which such bars cover in AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
Marsupials and other Mammalia .
Because it occurs on the outer side of the bone , I am led to interpret it as comparable to ridges similarly placed in Carnivora .
The antero-posterior thickness of the distal end through the condyle is 1*3 centim. ; and the vertical extent of the condyle on the anterior side of the bone is 1 centim. The condylar surface is well rounded from above downward and backward .
Diagram stowing the right hnmerus in Mammals which resemble Theriodesmus .
Felis leo .
I cannot but suspect the possibility of this humerus having lost its proximal epiphyses ; and , if so , the restoration of the missing portions might bring the bone into close correspondence with the Mammals , which it resembles in its distal end .
In the outline here given a sufficiently close approximation may be seen to three Mammalian types to be suggestive of affinities .
In form the bone is very like the humerus of a Leopard , in which there is a not dissimilar attenuation of the shaft distally ; but this character is probably of small importance , since other Felidae do not show quite the same proportions .
And , while some of the Felidae show a not dissimilar ridge on the outer side of the bone at the distal end , there is also a strong anterior tricipital ridge at the proximal end , to which the fossil offers no approximation .
This ridge , however , assumes a more anterior marginal position in some Carnivora , and in others is less conspicuous ; still its absence appears to show that the muscular relations of the humerus to the body were not identical with those of existing Carnivora .
The resemblance to Hyrax is not less remarkable , though now it is the distal ridge that is wanting .
A third resemblance is found in Thylacinusy which in general form and character of the bone , and especially in the antero-posterior distal compression of the shaft , approximates to the fossil closely .
Ulna and Radius .
The ulna and radius are moderately elongated , but are somewhat shorter than the humerus .
The two bones combine proximately to form a semicircular cavity for the distal end of the humerus to work in .
This condition is characteristic of Mammals , since the humeral articulation is chiefly due to the prolongation of the ulna proximally into an olecranon process , which extends beyond the articulation in a way which is not found in other Vertebrates .
The radius is rather the stouter bone at the proximal end , where it is placed in front of the ulna .
The length of the radius is 8*5 centims. The shaft is straight , moderately constricted in the middle , and somewhat expanded towards the proximal and distal ends .
The internal .
side of the bone is well rounded , and , owing to the constriction of the shaft , its convexity is necessarily greatest in the middle .
The posterior side of the bone is rather less concave in length than the anterior border , for the posterior side of the bone appears to be flattened , while the anterior border at the distal end , though convex , is rather compressed .
At a distance of 2*6 centims. above the distal end there appears to be a long vascular foramen in the bone near the inner anterior border , but in this region the bone is a little crushed .
The articulations of the bone are necessarily only seen in side view , and both proximally and distally are rather less wide than the adjacent part of the shaft .
The width of the proximal end of the bone is 14 millims. , but external to the articulation the bone expands in a convexity which is almost a process , which overlaps the ulna .
The superior extremity of this convexity extends for 4 or 5 millims. further proximally than the anterior border , so that , while the anterior and lateral borders are sharp and well-defined , the articular surface is concave and inclined obliquely forward .
This concavity , like that of the adjacent ulna , is parallel to the convexity of the distal articular end of the humerus , from which it is separated by an interspace as if for cartilage about 2 millims. wide .
The distal articulation is somewhat similar in character , except that the less prominent distal convexity and downward prolongation of the bone is on the inner border , while the shaft :is concave on the ulnar side .
The side to side width of the articulation is only 12 millims. In this direction the articular surface is concave and oblique , looking downward and outward , because the inner border has a greater extension distally than the ulnar border .
The margin of the articulation is sharp , and the surface is transverse to the shaft .
The ulna is a straight bone , somewhat compressed from side to side .
It is 10 centims. long , and in form and extent of the olecranon process approximates to the ulna of the Wolverine and some of the smaller Carnivora .
Its shaft has a slight curve by which the middle part bends inward towards the radius , while the AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
greater part of the proximal end of the bone is behind the radius .
Distally the ulna is displaced so as to lie away from the radius and most of the carpal bones .
The impression of the ulna in the stone is less deep than that of the radius , so that it is impossible to be sure that the entire width of the bone is exposed , and no estimate can be formed of its thickness .
The anterior border of the shaft , below the olecranon articulation , is very slightly convex in length , and the corresponding posterior and external border is rather more markedly concave , for the middle part of the shaft contracts in diameter , though not so conspicuously as the radius .
The width of the distal end of the bone is about 11 millims. , that of the middle of the shaft is 7 millims. , and below the proximal articulation , where the bone is overlapped by the radius , the transverse measurement is fully 11 millims. Its surface is slightly crushed , flattened , and gently convex from side to side .
Proximally towards the olecranon , the posterior contour is convex for nearly half the length of the bone , and the convexity augments proximally till it curves round towards the humerus , above the articulation .
This part of the ulna extends proximally for 2*4 centims. beyond the middle of the articular surface of the rad ius .
This posterior margin is rounded from side to side , and has every appearance of being compressed as in ferine Mammals .
The articular margin is transversely thickened , so as to slightly channel the side of the olecranon process , and distally this thickening abuts against the radius , and so contributes to form the continuous curve of the humeral articulation .
The transverse width of the bone at the articulation is fully 11 millims. There is some slight indication that a median ridge ran up the articular concavity which extends upward and forward .
Above the articulation the olecranon is truncated in a straight line with a slight obliquity ; here it is 1 centim. deep .
It extends some distance over the distal end of the humerus , in which there must have been a considerable olecranon pit .
Thus the ulna and radius combine to make a perfect hemispherical cup for the humerus , which is nearly 16 millims. wide and inclined obliquely backward .
The distal end of the bone is truncated , and the oblique surface in which it terminates gave attachment to two carpal bones , which are smaller than the single carpal which was attached to the radius .
When these bones are compared with those of other Mammalia , no one genus combines all their characters .
In general aspect they are like the same bones in the Wolverine , except for the simpler forms of their distal extremities .
The proximal end of the radius perhaps finds its nearest parallel in the Aye-aye and other Lemurs , in which there is a similar concave oblique surface .
The ulna is perhaps more like that of Meles or Gulo .
But the distal ends are unlike the corresponding surfaces ot Lemurs or Carnivora , and the simplicity of the surfaces is almost Reptilian .
Still Mammals like the Hyrax make an approximation in the form of the distal ends , which is the more interesting from the somewhat like form of the humerus , though there is no close resemblance in form or proportion between the bones of the fore-arm in the two types , and both Sirenians and Seals approximate to the fossil in the form of the distal ends of the ulna and radios .
But , whatever may be the ' taxonomic value of these resemblances in the distal ends of the bones , their predominant characters otherwise suggest Civets , Weasels , and Badgers , with frequent reminders of the bones in Lemurs and Monkeys .
Diagram of ulna and radius .
Meles .
The Carpus .
Although the carpal bones are not in compact articulation , they are so displaced as better to show the forms of the bones without disordering their relations .
The distal row of four carpal bones remains in contact with the metacarpus .
Two carpals are in contact with the ulna , and one with the radius , and these form the proximal row .
But between these two rows is a portion of the third row , consisting of three bones which are towards the radial side .
The largest , and most centrally placed , may be identified with the centrale of Monkeys , Lemurs , and some other Mammalia ; but the other bones external to it , on the radial side , rather suggest the condition in the carpus of some Chelonians and Amphibians , and appear to throw some light on the relation of the carpus to the tarsus in Mammals .
The large bone , which is equal in size to the distal end of the radius , and is in contact with it , I regard as the scapho-lunar ; and two bones , which are faintly outlined in contact with the ulna , would then be the cuneiform and pisiform bones .
The four bones of the distal row of the carpus , being situ , are easily identified as the trapezium , trapezoid , magnum , and unciform bones .
There is no possibility of the row having included more bones , since the unciform bone supports two metacarpals .
The intermediate row may be distinguished as centrale 1 , 2 , and 3 .
This interpretaAND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
tion may be better understood from the following diagram , in which I have made a restoration of the scheme of the carpus .
F. 0 , L-S .
Scheme of the carpus of Theriodesmus restored .
The scapho-lunar bone is so far displaced by being twisted forward on the ulnar side that much of its proximal surface is exposed .
It is a sub-quadrate bone , and , like all the other carpal elements , has its articular margins sharp and well defined .
The proximal surface is 12 millims. wide , smooth , with a cartilaginous articulation which is defined by a linear margin .
It is convex from back to front , in harmony with the concavity at the distal end of the radius .
The distal surface is somewhat smaller , and develops a prominent mammilate convexity in the middle .
The external surface , which was towards the ulnar side , is only 3 millims. deep , concave vertically , convex transversely , with prominent superior and inferior margins , and it shows a few vascular foramina in the middle .
The other external surface has a vertical depth of about 9 millims. , but diminishes in depth as it extends forward .
It is flattened , but is slightly concave both from above downward and behind forward ; the measurement in the latter direction is 7 millims. , and is limited laterally by a vertical ridge .
The bones which articulate with the distal end of the ulna are much less perfectly indicated , showing only ill-defined impressions of their lateral contours .
First , there is a transversely oblong bone on the side towards the radius , which is the cuneiform .
It measures a centimetre from back to front , and is 7 millims. deep , and articulates with the principal distal facet of the ulna .
The other carpal , adjacent to it , I regard as the pisiform bone .
It is a sub-triangular or pear-shaped bone , which has its chief extension behind the ulna .
Its transverse measurement is about 6 millims. , and its vertical measurement about 1 eentim .
, terminating proximally in a point .
These three bones now described I regard as forming the proximal row of the carpus , because , if the distal end of the ulna were brought into contact with the radius , the cuneiform bone would be in contact with the lunar side of the scapho-lunar .
In the distal row , beginning on the inner side , the bones I 'm , Td , M , U , present a type common among pentadactylate Mammals , in which the first three bones each support one metacarpal , while the last two are supported by the unciform bone .
The trapezium is sub-quadrate or somewhat lozenge-shaped , flat , inclined inward , and measures 5^ millims. in height and breadth .
The external surface of the trapezoid is much smaller , being only about half the width of the proximal end of the second metacarpal on which it rests .
Its proximal tj 2 and distal surfaces are convex , its sides are flattened ; it is about 4 millims. high and 3 millims. wide .
The magnum is a larger bone , being 5 millims. wide and 7 millims. high , with the proximal surface prominently convex , and the upper half of its quadrate anterior aspect triangularly excavated , a condition which is paralleled in the magnum of many Carnivora .
The unciform bone is the largest in the distal row .
Its lateral aspect is sub-quadrate , being about 8 millims. deep and 7 millims. wide , with the inner distal angle prolonged as a slight talon , and the outer proximal angle is rounded .
The superior and external borders are convex in length , and the external surface is concave .
Between these bones , forming the distal row and the proximal row , is the intermediate row of three bones which was placed on the radial side .
There are one or sometimes two bones in this position in the carpus of Chelonians , and at least one in the carpus of Lemurs , of certain Quadrumana , and of some Rodents like the Beavers , while the centrale is a well-known element in the carpus of Salamanders .
But in no Vertebrate have three bones been found in the position described .
The first bone ( g)of this series , counting from the radial side , is situate at the upper inner angle of the trapezium .
It is a small ossification , 2 millims. in diameter , and sub-quadrate in form .
It may be connected distally with a minute ossification external to the trapezium .
The second bone ( h)is triangular .
As preserved , it rests by its flat distal surface upon the trapezium and trapezoid , while the two inclined proximal faces , which are about equal in size , meet to form a sharp pent-house ridge .
It is 8 millims. long , and half as high .
It is obviously displaced , and one of its superior surfaces was received under the internal half of the scapho-lunar bone .
The third bone ( i ) is much larger than the others , and of sub-quadrate form .
It is 8 millims. high , about 7 millims. wide distally , and 4 millims. wide proximally .
The proximal surface is flattened to articulate with the lunar portion of the scapho-lunar bone .
The distal surface may have fitted upon the trapezoid or the magnum .
Laterally the bone has two surfaces , separated by a sharp vertical oblique ridge .
The surface on the ulnar side is concave in the vertical antero-posterior direction , and convex from front to back .
The other lateral surface faced towards the second centrale already described .
I regard these three bones collectively as homologous with the nayiculare in the tarsus .
That bone is situate between the astragalus and the three cuneiform bones wdiich carry the first three metatarsal bones , so that the naviculare , originally , may also have included three ossifications .
Since the third central bone in this fossil is the largest , that fact may help to account for the internal position taken by the representative ossification in Mammals in which it is still found .
This carpus is more primitive than any Mammalian carpus hitherto known , and , on the whole , better AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
compared with that of Amphibians and Reptiles .
Dr. It .
Wiedersheim , in a paper* on the central bones in the carpus and tarsus in the Axolotl , shows some remarkable conditions of the carpus to be developed with age .
There are at first three bones in the proximal row , and four bones in the distal row , though ultimately the latter series numbers fivet on the left side of the body .
Between these rows is the centrale , at first single , and ultimately represented by two cartilages on one side and three on the other .
I should desire to see preparations before affirming that a linear series of three central elements is a normal characteristic of the Axolotl , but this number appears probably to be present .
The presence of two central bones in certain Reptilia is much better established .
Dr. Franz Bayer has figured and described J two central elements in the young Hatteria which have a linear arrangement , and are placed above the second and third tarsals of the distal row .
And this condition appears to have been observed independently by Dr. G. Baur and by M. L. Dollo .
It is among Chelonians , however , that the two centralia are most strikingly developed in linear arrangement towards the radial side .
But , though the condition of the carpus in this fossil is thus shown to be Amphibian aifd Reptilian , it is typically Mammalian in all points except that of the central bones .
But no Mammal shows more than one central bone , and the number of types in which that one is persistent throughout life is not large .
Dr. G. Baur , indeed , affirms S that a centrale has been shown to occur at some period of life in all orders of Mammals except Ungulata and Cetacea , but figures and detailed descriptions have yet to be given to demonstrate the proposition for some orders .
Perhaps the carpus of Clieiromys nearly parallels Theriodesmus , except that in the Lemur the scaphoid and lunar bones are not united .
The one large centrale is in contact proximally with the scaphoid and lunar , and it meets all the bones of the distal row .
The bone is relatively smaller in the Orang-utang , but the structure is the same .
Vrolik remarks || that this bone is found in the Gibbons , and appears to exist in all the lower Monkeys .
Vrolik also figures { loc. cit. , p. 204 ) a second ossification between the trapezium and scaphoid , regarded by him as a sesamoid bone for the tendon of the adductor longus pollicis .
Baur { loc. cit. ) states that he has evidence of the centrale in Man , the Cat , and Dog , In the embryo of Lutra the central bone was quite free and very fully developed , while the radiale and intermedium [ = ( scapho-lunar ] were coalesced .
Hyrax capensis has a free centrale , though it is only free in this species of the genus .
The presence of this hone cannot but mark an ancient connection between the orders in which it is found ; just as the two or three central bones of * " fiber die Vermehrung des Os centrale in Carpus und Tarsus des Axolotls , " von R. Wiedersheim , ' Morphol .
Jahrb .
, ' vol. 6 , 1880 , p. 581 , Taf .
xxx .
f The unciform bone in Thylacinus appears to be formed by union of two elements .
+ " Uber die Extremitaten einer jungen Hatteria , " von Dr. Franz Bayer , in Tabor , 'Wien , Akad .
Sitzber .
, ' vol. 90 ( Abth .
1 ) , 1885 .
S ' American Naturalist , ' February , 1885 , p. 195 .
j| " Quadrumana , " ' Todd , Cyclopaedia Anat .
, ' vol. 4 , part 1 , 1852 , p. 203 .
Amphibians , Hatteria , and certain Chelonians must indicate a closer genetic relation between Theriodesmus and some of the lower Vertebrata .
Carpus of Cheiromys .
Carpus of Theriodesmus .
Carpus of Hatteria .
Carpus of Axolotl .
The Metacarpus .
The metacarpus consists of five stout bones , which are deep from back to front at their junction with the carpus , and wide from side to side at their distal ends .
The transverse width over the proximal end of the metacarpus is 2*6 centims. These bones successively augment in length from the first to the fourth , but the fifth is shorter than the second .
As a whole the metacarpus is very Mammalian , being like that of the Otter , and several of the smaller Carnivora .
But the plan of the metacarpus is also interesting from its resemblance to the metatarsus in and the Scaphosaurians .
The first metacarpal is 1 centim. long , the second 2*1 centims. long , the third measures 2*7 centims. , the fourth 2*8 centims. , while the length of the fifth metacarpal is reduced to 2 centims. The middle three bones have their distal ends strong , and are flattened superiorly .
Their relative length is characteristic of the Carnivora .
The several bones have their sides concave , but the concavity is most marked on the external side .
The superior surface is convex from side to side , with the oblique convexity most marked on the outer side in the outer digits , and on the inner side in the inner digits .
The depth of the proximal end of the first metacarpal is 6 millims. ; its width at the proximal end is 2 millims. , and rather less at the distal end .
The proximal articulation is truncated and flat .
The distal articulation is well rounded from above downward .
The second metacarpal is between 5 and 6 millims. wide projdmally , contracting in the middle to 4 millims. , and expanding distally to a width of nearly 8 millims. The distal articulation is nearly straight transversely , and the convexity from above downward is less distinctly shown .
The lateral border , which faces the third metacarpal , is more concave than that which faces the second .
Above the distal condyle there is a slight transverse depression , but all the bones wTant the supracondylar grooves which are commonly found among Mammals .
The third metacarpal is 5 millims. wide proximally , it soon coqtracts to 4 millims. , and expands distally to 9 millims. The outer corner of the distal end is obliquely truncated , * and is not articular , so that neither in this digit nor the next is the proximal end of the first phalange as wide as the metacarpal with which it articulates .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
The fourth metacarpal is 5 millims. wide proximally , contracts to 4 millims. , and expands distally to 9 millims. ; but , though these transverse measurements are the same as in the third , the configuration of the bone is different , because the distal widening is here gradual from the proximal third of the bone , while the third metacarpal widens rapidly near the distal end .
A short ridge descends obliquely from the inner angle of the proximal articulation .
The fifth metacarpal bone has its proximal articular end directed inward .
It is 6 millims. wide , the distal end is about equally wide , and in the middle the shaft contracts to between 3 and 4 millimo .
The inner lateral border is nearly straight , except that there is a marked concavity below the articulation , which may result from the inflexion of the inner proximal angle , such as is seen in the fourth metacarpal .
Distally there is some appearance of a ridge on the superior inner border of the bone .
The Digits .
The digits are imperfectly preserved .
In each the first phalange is large and strong , but the other phalangeal bones are short .
In the fifth digit there are three phalanges , and the fourth has the same number , but the third appears to have had four phalanges .
In the second digit only two phalanges are preserved , and the first has but one preserved and a second indicated .
In the first digit the first phalange is 8 millims. long .
It is wide at the proximal end , where the articulation is concave from side to side .
It appears to have a well-developed anterior end , with a rounded articulation , margined superiorly by a slight groove .
In close contact with this surface is a small hemispherical ossification which appears to represent a second phalange .
In the second digit the stout first phalange is 12 millims. long .
It is 7 millims. wide proximally and 5 millims. distally , but contracts rapidly below the proximal articulation .
The second phalange is similar in form , but smaller , being 7 millims. long .
Its distal extremity appears to have been articular , but there is no trace of a third phalange , which may have been preserved in the counterpart slab .
In the third digit the first phalange is relatively long and slender .
It measures 13 millims. in length , is 8 millims. wide proximally , and about half as wide distally .
The second phalange is hardly more than 3 millims. long ; and the third is nearly 7 millims. long .
It has a good trochlear distal end , and beyond it is an indication of a fourth bone , but there is no evidence to show whether it was a complete phalange .
In the fourth digit the first phalange is 15 millims. long , so that the first phalangeal bones follow the same law of progressive elongation as the metacarpals .
The hone is rather stouter than the others , being less contracted distally .
The second phalange is about 3 millims. long , but more than 5 millims. wide .
Anterior to this is a curved mass of most irregular form , with a striated surface , which I regard as being the extremity of the digit , but the absence of definition of the joints leads me to believe that the original bones had been lost , and replaced , as among some of the lower Vertebrata , by fibro-cartilage imperfectly ossified , and that this tissue , with the attached ligaments , has been preserved , but only defines the third phalange , which is not terminal .
The fifth digit is well preserved .
The first phalange is 1 centim. long , the second 5 millims. long , and the third is a slightly curved claw phalange 5 millims. long .
These three bones steadily diminish in size .
The characters in this hand , which are new , are first evidence of an augmentation in the number of phalanges in the middle digits .
But , although the three phalanges in such digits are singularly constant in the Mammalian class , the existence of so remarkable a departure from the usual rule as is found in the Cetacea , will show that the increased number is not inconsistent with the Mammalian plan , and not inconsistent with the number being different in nearly allied genera .
Still the increased number in Theriodesmus is suggestive of a lower Vertebrate type , just as is the possible replacement of the extremity of the fourth digit .
The form of the metacarpals , enlarged distally and flattened superiorly , is suggestive of the Marsupial Thylacinus , while the shortness of the phalanges and the character of their articular ends is not unlike the condition in Echidna .
Still , neither Monotremes nor Marsupials make any approach to carpus in character .
But the Echidna has the distal end of the ulna and radius simpler than in most unguiculate terrestrial Mammalia .
Tibia and Fibula .
The right tibia and fibula are parallel bones , imperfectly displayed , and imperfect proximally .
Little more is known of the fibula than that it equalled the tibia in length ; it was apparently more slender , similarly straight , was contracted at the distal end , and slightly expanded proximally , where it is 13 millims. wide .
The tibia is a stout strong bone , somewhat disfigured by crushing .
The postero-exterior side is exposed in which the bone faces towards the fibula .
At the distal end it is fully 13 millims. wide ; it there thickens from front to back so as to make a convex outline towards the articulation .
The middle of this convexity is inclined towards the inner side of the bone , up which it runs as a narrow , rounded , marginal ridge , which separates the convex anterior surface from the flattened and sub-concave posterior surface .
In the middle third the width of the shaft is 1 centim. , but the width increases proximally to 17 centim. at the fracture , partly by the great increase in strength of the convex lateral ridge , and partly by expansion towards the fibula .
The distal articular end of the bone is inclined obliquely backward ; the surface , partially exposed , is as deep as wide , is gently convex , and not smooth , but slightly irregular , as though it were cartilaginous .
Below it , separated by a distance of a centimetre , is a bone which from its form might well be the distal epiphysis .
It is 11 millims. wide and 8 millims. deep on the inner side , where its contour is vertical , with the distal surface notched out so as to give the bone a descending talon , which AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
apparently would have fitted on to an astragalus .
No affinities can be inferred from these bones , which are little more than 10 centims. long .
Caudal Vertebra , An impression of a caudal vertebra exhibits the under side , transverse processes , anterior articular end , and some indication of the small depressed neural arch .
The centrum , as displayed , is 14 millims. long , with the anterior articular end of the centrum transversely ovate , 6 millims. wide , and about 4 millims. deep .
The articular margin is rounded , and there is a marked concavity occupying the larger part of the articular surface .
The ventral aspect is very slightly constricted transversely , with blunt , longitudinal , lateral ridges margining the base , which is flattened , slightly concave between the ridges , and gently concave in length .
' The transverse processes are thin , compressed from above downward , about half a centimetre long , directed obliquely outward and backward .
They are given off from the middle of the height of the side of the centrum , near to its anterior end , the sharp anterior ridge of the process rising immediately behind the articular face , though the process on the left side is carried further hack than that on the right side .
The transverse width over the processes is 12 millims. The neural arch is only indicated by a slight trace of the prezygapophyses , which Ventral aspect , caudal vertebra .
shows that the neural canal was very depressed .
No affinities can be found in an isolated caudal vertebra like this , though its characters are Mammalian .
Conclusion .
From the foregoing description it is manifest that Theriodesmus is a primitive Mammal of a generalised type , which diverges much less from existing orders than might have been expected , seeing that no limb bones have hitherto been known from the secondary rocks , with the exception of the small humerus and femur from the Stonesfield slate.* With that type this fossil has nothing in common .
If the * ' Geol .
Soc. Quart .
Journ. , ' vol. 35 , 1879 , p. 456 .
X humerus only had been found in this South African animal , it would have been regarded as indicating a Carnivorous type , probably Marsupial .
The ulna and radius in their proximal ends and general character correspond with Carnivora and Lemuroids , but in their distal ends are more like certain Rodents and the Monotreme Echidna .
This I take to indicate that there may have been no supination , and that the distal extremities of the bones acquired their modification after the Carnivorous characteristic had been developed .
Some caution may be needed in drawing inferences from the carpus , because the bones are not all in natural articulation .
But the presence of the bones of the central series seems beyond question .
The prevalence of the central ossification in the Quadrumana , Lemuroidea , and certain Rodents points to a collateral affinity with those groups , the former two of which have obvious points of contact with Carnivora .
The absence of the centrale in the Monotremata and Marsupialia suggests that , if Theriodesmus is not Placental , it has no close kinship with any surviving type of Marsupial , while the fact that as many as three central bones are present , tends to show that it is of a more ancient stock , even if it should prove to be an offshoot from the Lemuroid division of Mammalia .
The close general rememblance of the carpus , but for the central bones , to the carpus of a Carnivore is suggestive of relations to the Carnivora as well .
The metacarpus is that of a Carnivore like the Otter , simplified in details in a way found among Marsupials .
The phalanges are short as in terrestrial Chelonians , and have the superior surfaces but little modified , indicating a plantigrade movement , or very little motion between the phalanges of the digits .
Hence I conclude that this fossil cannot be placed in any defined order of existing Mammals .
It would appear to belong to that group or sub-class which Professor Cope has named Bunotheria , but not to any order of it which has been indicated .
For , while it is like the Bunotheria in being on a lower grade than the existing Placental Mammals , it is of higher type than the Creodonta , and the structures described suggest that higher Placental types may have diverged from the order of which it is the first indication .
The question arises whether Tritilodon , founded on the anterior part of the skull , described by Sir R. Owen , from the Trias of Thaba-chou , Basutoland , South Africa , may be the skull of the same animal ?
I regard the two animals as having no close family relation .
The skull , as judged by its dentition , is a Bunotheroid Rodent ; while this fore-limb is that of a Bunotheroid type which lies between the Lemurs and Carnivora ; yet the distal ends of ulna and radius do not indicate a typical Carnivorous dentition .
These remains are probably but the beginnings of a Mammalian fauna which the South African rocks may be expected to yield to systematic exploration , which will show other evidences of Reptilian inheritance .
It is in the Mammalia that many characters of extinct Amphibian and Reptilian ordinal groups must be sought for .
AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE FOSSIL REPTILIA .
Explanation of Plate .
PLATE 26 .
Fig. 1 .
A slab showing the right fore-lirnb and some bones of the hind-limb of a Mammal from South Africa ( TheriodesNatural size .
a. Humerus .
b. Hina .
c. Radius .
d. Scapho-lunar bone .
e. Cuneiform and f pisiform .
g , h , i. Centralia .
Jc , l , on , n. Trapezoid , trapezium , magnum , and unciform .
o , I. , II .
, hi .
, iv .
, v. The metacarpus .
p , L , ii .
, hi .
, iv .
, v. The first phalange in the five digits .
q , I. , ii .
, hi .
, iv .
, v. Second phalange .
r , hi .
, iv .
, v. Third phalange .
s , hi .
, ?
Fourth phalange .
t.Mass at the extremity of the fourth digit , drawn enlarged in fig. 2 .
v , w.Tibia and fibula .
x. Distal epiphysis of tibia .
Fig. 2 .
The fourth digit enlarged three times , showing the first , second , and third phalanges , p , q , r , and a mass t extending distally .
The processes which extend from r are regarded as ossified ligaments , and it is possible that the part of the digit from r downward may have been lost and replaced by fibro-cartilage .
Flat .
7 ; ram*.1888.13 .Plat26 .
f leeley ?
West , Newmazi \amp ; Go .
may-

