374 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
[ June 11 , ' Continuous absorption at the red end not reaching to the more refrangible end .
( This absorption may v break up into channelled spaces .
) Unique continuous absorption .
9 .
I shall content myself in the present note by giving one or two instances of the passage of spectra from one stage to another , beginning at the fifth stage .
From 5 to 4 .
1 .
The absorption of the vapours of K in the red-hot tube , described in another note , is at first continuous .
As the action of the heat is continued , this continuous spectrum breaks in the middle ; one part of it retreats to the blue , the other to the red .
From 4 to 3 .
1 .
Faraday 's researches on gold-leaf best illustrate this ; but I hold that my explanation of them by masses of two degrees of complexity only is sufficient without his conclusion ( ' Researches in Chemistry , ' p. 417 ) , that they exist " of intermediate sizes or proportions .
" From 3 to 2 .
1 .
Sulphur-vapour first gives a continuous spectrum at the blue end ; on heating , this breaks up into a channelled space-spectrum .
2 .
The new spectra of K and Na ( more particularly referred to in the third note ) make their appearance after the continuous absorption in the blue and red vanishes .
From 2 to 1 .
1 .
In many metalloids the spectra , without the jar , are channelled ; on throwing the jar into the circuit the line-spectrum is produced , while the cooler exterior vapour gives a channelled absorption-spectrum .
2 .
The new spectra of K and Na change into the line-spectrum ( with thick lines which thin subsequently ) as the heat is continued .
Fourth stage Fifth stage VII .
uSpectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
On the Molecular Structure of Vapours in connexion with their Densities .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 26 , 1874 .
1 .
I have recently attempted to bring the spectroscope to bear upon the question whether vapours of elements below the highest temperatures are truly homogeneous , and whether the vapours of different chemical elements , at any one temperature , are all in a similar molecular condition .
In the present note , I beg to lay before the Royal Society the preliminary results of my researches .
1874 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
375 2 .
We start with the following facts :\#151 ; I. All elements driven into vapour by the induced current give linespectra .
II .
Most elements driven into vapour by the voltaic arc give us the same .
III .
Many metalloids when greatly heated , some at ordinary temperatures , give us channelled-space spectra .
IV .
Elements in the solid state give us continuous spectra .
3 .
If we grant that the spectra represent to us the vibrations of different molecular aggregations ( this question is discussed in Note II .
) , spectroscopic observations should furnish us with facts of some importance to the inquiry .
4 .
To take the lowest ground .
If , in the absence of all knowledge on the subject , it could be shown that all vapours at all stages of temperature had spectra absolutely similar in character , then it would be more likely that all vapours were truly homogeneous and similar among themselves , as regards molecular condition , than if the spectra varied in character , not only from element to element , but from one temperature to another in the vapour of the same element .
5 .
At the temperature of the sun 's reversing layer , the spectra of all the elements known to exist in that layer are apparently similar in character\#151 ; that is , they are all line-spectra ; hence it is more probable that the vapours there are truly homogeneous , and that they all exist in the same molecular condition , than if the spectrum were a mixed one .
6 .
The fact that the order of vapour-densities in the sun 's atmosphere , which we can in a measure determine by spectroscopic observations , does not agree with the order of the modern atomic weights of the elements , but more closely agrees with the older atomic weights , led me to take up the present research .
Thus I may mention that my early observations of the welling-up of Mg vapour all round the sun above the Na vapour have lately been frequently substantiated by the Italian observers ; so that it is beyond all question , I think , that , at the sun , the vapour-density of Mg is less than that of Na .
7 .
The vapour-densities of the following elements have been experimentally determined :\#151 ; H ... .
1 S ... ... ... . .
32 ( at 1000 ' ) K . . . .
39 I ... ... ... .
127 As ... .
150 Hg ... ... ... 100 Br ... .
80 N ... ... ... .
14 - Cd _____ 56 O ... ... . .
16 Cl ______ 35-5 P ... ... .
62 8 .
To pursue this inquiry the following arrangements have been adopted:\#151 ; The first experiments were made last December upon Zn in a glass VOL. XXII .
2 o 376 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
[ June 11 , tube closed at each end with glass plates ; and I have to express my obligations to Dr. Eussell for allowing them to be conducted in his laboratory , and for much assistance and counsel concerning them .
A stream of dry H was allowed to pass .
The tube was heated in a Hofmann 's gas-furnace , pieces of the metal to be studied having previously been introduced .
It was found that the glass tube melted ; it was therefore replaced by an iron one .
The inconvenience of this plan , however ( owing to the necessity for introducing the metal into the end of the hot tube when the first charge had volatilized ) , and , moreover , the insufficiency of the heat obtainable from the gas-furnace , soon obliged me to replace both tube and furnace by others , which have now been in use for many weeks , and which still continue to work most satisfactorily .
The iron tube is 4 feet in length , and is provided with a central enlargement , suggested to me by Mr. Dewar , forming a T-piece by the screwing in of a side tube , the end of which is left projecting from the door in the roof of the furnace .
Caps are screwed on at each end of the main tube ; these caps are closed by a glass plate at one end , and have each a small side tube for the purpose of passing hydrogen or other gases through the hot tube .
The furnace is supplied with coke or charcoal ; an electric lamp , connected with thirty Grove 's cells , is placed at one end of the tube and a one-prism spectroscope at the other .
The temperatures reached by this furnace may be conveniently divided into four stages :\#151 ; I. When the continuous spectrum of the tube extends to the sodiumline D , this line not being visible .
II .
When the continuous spectrum extends a little beyond D , this line being visible as a bright line .
III .
When the spectrum extends into the green , D being very bright .
IV .
When the spectrum extends beyond the green and D becomes invisible as a line , and the sides of the furnace are at a red heat .
I may add ( 1 ) that I have only within the last few days been able to employ the third and fourth stages of heat , as the furnace was previously without a chimney , and the necessary draught could not be obtained ; and ( 2 ) that I was informed , a little time ago , by Prof. Koscoe that , with a white-hot tube , he had observed new spectra in the case of Na and K. These spectra , which I now constantly see when these temperatures are reached , I shall call the " new spectra .
" 9 .
The results of the experiments , so far as the visible spectrum is concerned , between the stages indicated may be stated as follows:\#151 ; H. No absorption .
N. No absorption .
K. I have observed , either separately or together :\#151 ; ( a ) The line absorption-line near D. ( / 3 ) Continuous absorption throughout the whole spectrum .
( y ) Continuous absorption in red and blue at the same time , w w 1874 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyers Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. III .
377 the light being transmitted in the centre of the spectrum ( as by gold-leaf ) .
( 5 ) Continuous absorption clinging on one side or other of the line .
( This phenomenon , which , so far as I know , is quite new , will be described in another note .
) ( e ) The new spectrum .
Na .
I have observed , either separately or together:\#151 ; ( \#171 ; ) D absorbed .
( fi ) Continuous absorption throughout the whole spectrum , ( y ) Continuous absorption clinging on one side or the other of D. ( 3 ) The new spectrum .
Zn .
Continuous absorption in the blue .
( An unknown line sometimes appears in the green , but certainly no line of Zn .
) Cd .
Continuous absorption in the blue .
Sb .
New spectrum , with channelled spaces and absorption in the blue .
P. The same .
( This , however , in consequence of the extreme delicacy of the spectrum , requires confirmation .
) S. Channelled-space spectrum ( previously observed by Salet ) .
As .
Probable channelled-space spectrum .
( Observations to be repeated .
) Bi .
No absorption .
I. Channelled spectrum in the green and intense bank of general absorption in the violet , where at the ordinary temperature the vapour transmits light .
Hg .
No absorption .
10 .
These results may be tabulated as follows :\#151 ; Modern atomic -weight .
No visible absorption .
Line absorption .
Probable channelled-space absorption .
Continuous absorption in the blue .
Channelled-space absorption + band of absorption in violet .
No absorption .
Channelled-space spectrum probable .
Line absorption .
Continuous absorption in the violet .
Channelled-space spectrum and absorption in the blue .
Channelled-space spectrum .
No absorption .
1 1 39 39 As ______ 150 75 Cd------ 56 112 I ... .
127 127 Hg------ 100 200 N ________ 14 14 P ... .
62 31 Na . . .
' .
( ?
) 23 Zn . . . .
* ( ?
) 65 Sb . . . .
( ?
) 122 S -------- 32 32 Bi-------- ( ?
) 208 2 q 2 378 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. IY .
[ June 11 , 11 It will be seen from the foregoing statement that if similar spectra be taken as indicating similar molecular conditions , then the vapours , the densities of which have been determined , have not been in the same molecular condition among themselves .
Thus the vapours of K , S , and Cd , at the fourth stage of heat , gave us line , channelled-space , and continuous absorption in the blue respectively .
This is also evidence that each vapour is non-homogeneous for a considerable interval of time , the interval being increased as the temperature is reduced .
VIII .
" Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. IV .
On a new Class of Absorption Phenomena .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 26,1874 .
1 .
In the experiments on the absorption-spectrum of Na and K vapour heated in a red-hot tube , to which further refeience is made in separate notes , I have observed phenomena quite new to me , some rough drawings of which I lay herewith before the Royal Society .
As the phenomena are only momentary , I cannot answer for the final accuracy of the drawings , nor have I been able to represent the softness of the gradations of shade .
2 .
In the drawings , the red end of the spectrum is to the left ; the D line common to them all is the image of a slit about half an inch long , on which slit the light falls from an electric lamp , through the tube and chamber in which the vapours are produced .
The lower part of the drawings would generally represent , therefore , the spectrum of the less dense vapours were the vapours at rest .
3 .
One of the phenomena referred to consists of what may be described as a unilateral widening of the line D : the side absorption , however , is much less dense than that of the line ; it is bounded by D on one side and by a curved line on the other .
Figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 will give an idea of this appearance in three stages as it is frequently actually seen , i. e. as the absorption travels up or down the line it widens as shown .
Fig. 2 .

