]\gt ; On the Green Line .
5461 Resolved by Glass and Lummer Plates and on its Zeeman Constituents .
By J. C. McLHiNNAN and A. R. McLBOD , University of Toronto .
( Communicated by Sir Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. Received December 9 , 1913 , \mdash ; Received in revised form February 9 , \mdash ; Read March 12 , 1914 .
) [ PLATES 3 AND 4 .
] Numerous investigators have studied the structure of some of the finer lines in the mercury arc , and other spectra , with ruled gratings , echelon spectroscopes , and Lummer plates ; but up to the present when Lummer plates and e'chelons were used these were invariably made of glass .
A short time ago a Lummer plate of crystal quartz was made for the Physical Laboratory at Toronto by the Adam Hilger Company , for the investigation of the structure of some of the finer lines in ultra-violet spectra ; but before proceeding to use it for this purpose some measurements were made with it , and with two Lummer plates made of glass , on the wave-lengths of the satellites of the mercury green line .
At the same time a precise method of measuring up the photographic fringe patterns produced by Lummer plates has been developed in which the geometrically central line of the double fringe pattern is taken as the line of reference in the measurements .
This exact formula permits of the use of the fringes that emerge from the plate at nearly grazing direction , for which the dispersion is the greatest .
The following paper contains an account of the investigatiom and includes the values of the wave-lengths of the satellites of the green line as deduced by the application of the method to which reference has just been made .
The quartz Lummel plate , it may be added , was cut with the axis of the crystal parallel to the plane refracting surfaces and perpendicular to the length of the plate .
The source of the light used in the investigation was one or other of a number of ordinary Cooper-Hewitt mercury-arc lamps .
The was passed through the collimator tube of a spectroscope and then into the plate in the manner .
In studying the structure of the line the Lummer plates were always placed with their plane parallel faces vertical so that the light which issued from both plane faces was available for the production of the fringe pattern .
The light as it issued from the plate was allowed to fall upon the lens of a camera placed behind the Lummer plate , with the central plane of the lens perpendicular to the Lummer plate and its principal axis directed 244 Messrs. J. C. McLennan and A. R. McLeod .
along the central plane of the latter .
By this arrangement the beams of parallel rays which issued at grazing emergence from both sides of th plate were brought to a focus in the line in which the central of the Lummer plate cut the focal plane of the lens .
while beams which issued in directions inclined at an angle to the plate were brought to a focus in the focal plane either to the right or to the left of the central line according as they issued from one side or the other of the Lummer plate .
Photographs taken in this way of the fringe pattern produced by the Lummer plates with the light of the mercury line include a set of wide main line fringes , and a number of sets of narrow corresponding to the different satellites which accompany the main line .
Tt is easy to show from the theory of Lummer plates that the fringes constituting any one of those sets are spaced out according to a simple law .
If , for example , .we consider the main line set and take to be the thickness of the Lummer plate , its refractive index for the wave-length and the focal length of the camera lens , and denote by , , the distances between the centres of the main line fringes taken in pairs , one being on either side of the central line of the photograph , then it can be shown that , ( 1 ) so that the quantity should to a very close degree have the same value over the whole fringe pattern , i.e. denoting by , and by , we should have for the whole pattern constant .
( 2 ) For let the two systems of emergent parallel rays which go to form bright fringes of the nth and orders issue from the plate at angles and respectively .
Then , denoting the path differences Corresp n to these two fringes by and , we have , and From these two equations we have ; or , if the angles .
and are small , Numerous tests were made of the law given by equation ( 2 ) by measuring up a number of photographs of the fringe patterns obtained with the different Lummer plates , and it was found to hold invariably with very On the Mercury Green Line great exactness .
One particular case in which it was possible to measure the distances between the bands corresponding to 11 different orders on the plate may be cited .
The values of , , , and , for this plate are given in Table I , from which it will be seen that the latter are in arithmetical progression , so that the values of deduced from are in close agreement , and the most probable value of can be deduced by well-known methods .
The uniformity exhibited in the values of shows decisively that the law enunciated above represents exceedingly closely the distribution of the fringes in the Lummer plate pattern .
Table I.\mdash ; Determination of from 11 Orders of Main Line obtained with a glass Lummer plate , by means of Equ ation- ( 2 ) .
Difference .
Difference .
In this connection it may be pointed out that for lines whose wavelengths are so close together as those of the main component and those of the satellites of the mercury green line the value of should come out about the same , when deduced either from measurements on the fringes of the main line system or from those made on the fringes of a satellite system .
That this is true may be seen from the values of given in Table II , which were deduced from measurements similar to those described above made upon the same plate on the fringe system of positive satellite , of positive satellite , of negative satellite , as well as on the system of fringes due to the main component .
Table II .
Fringe pattern of Deduced value of Satellite Satellite Main component Satellite Messrs. J. C. McLennan and A. R. McLeod .
The formula referred to above as the one used by us in determining the differences between the wave-lengths of the different sateIlites , and the wave-length of the main constituent of the green line , is in the form , ( 3 ) where has the significance given to it above , and is equal to the difference between the squares of the distances of two consecutive main line fringes from the central line of the fringe pattern , i.e. , and denotes either the expression or , where is the distance of a main line fringe from the central line of the pattern , that of the main line fringe of the next higher order , is the distance from the central line of a satellite fringe of the same order as represehts that change in the wave-length of the light which would cause the fringe of the order of the system of fringes due to light of wave-length to coincide with the fringe of the order of the formed by the light of wave-length The value of , as .
Baeyer*has shown , is given by where ( 5 ) and is calculable for any wave-length when the thickness of the Lummer plate , and its refractive index as well as its dispersion for the wave-length are known .
The validity of the equation can be seen by throwing it into the form where and are taken to be the variables .
In this form the relation shows that in the interference point-pattern formed by crossing a Lummer plate with an e'chelon grating , the points corre- sponding to the different satellites of any selected order all lie on one parabola .
The beautiful diagrams accompanying the paper by Nagaoka and Takamine amply illustrate this point .
In using the formula for determining the wave-length .
Baeyer , ' Verh . .
Deutsch .
Phys. Ges p. 734 , No. 18/ 20 , 1908 .
Nagaoka and Takamine , ' Phys. Soc. Lond. Proc vol. 26 , , Dec. 15 , 1912 .
h@ .
On the Mercury Line .
247 differences for the different satellites of a main line the quantities to be bdetermined by measurement are , viz. , , and , i.e. , we have pointed out above , is found by measuring the distance between pairs of corresponding main ] or satellite , one member of each pair being on either side of the uble pattern .
Similar measurements made pairs of any selected satellite 's fringes will give the values of for the .
different orders for this satellite .
The quantity can then be found .
Since this quantity , as .
equation 3 ) shows , should have the same value for all orders , the mean of its values taken over all the orders in the fringe pattern should give a very accurate result .
In the present investigation the formula was used in deducing for the different satellites of the mercury green line from measurements on eight different photographs taken with the quartz plate , and all the results are recorded in Table III , wave-lengths being given in Angstrom units .
The values obtained from the different photographs are all in good agreement .
It will be seen that the fringes due to the negative satellite No. 5 found by one of us*with an 6chelon grating and by a number Table IIL Refractive indices .
Data for quartz Lummer plates .
cm .
cm .
4861 .
* McLennan , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 87 , p. 269 1912 ) .
The mean values of for the different satellites of the mercury green line deduced from those in Tables III and are collected in Iable V , and along with them are also given a number of determinations of the for the satelites of the line found by other investigators with different types of resolving apparatus .
From this table it will be seen that aoka and Takamine were able to resolve the main line into a doublet with as the position of the constituent of shorter wave-length .
As the table shows , the main line was not resolved into a doublet either by the quartl discrepancy did not arise from any real variation in the structure of the It will be seen , moreover , that while the resolution by the glass plate gave wave-length of positive satellite No. 2 as longer than that of .
positivi satellite No. 1 , that by the quartz plate gave it as longer , which is practically the same .
This might seem to indicate that the discrepancy arose from an error in setting the micrometer on the main line in measuring up the plates .
Such an error , however , should affect the values of for all the sateJlites in a similar way and should not introduce any error in the determination of the wave-lengths of the positive satellites 1 and 2 relative to those of any of the other satellites .
The results in Table show , however , that while the values of for these two satellites relative to each other are the same , for both the glass and quartz plates , their values relative to those of negative satellites Nos. 1 and 2 , for example , are considerably different for the two kinds of plates .
It may be pointed out that all the photographs from which the values of given in Table III were obtained were taken with light emitted by the plate which belonged to the extraordinary ray system .
A few photographs were also taken of fringe patterns formed by the ordinary ray system and these were all found to give values for for the different satellites practically the same as those given in Table .
In one particular instance a photograph was taken of the pattern formed by the extraordinary rays and immediately afterwards one formed by the ordinary system .
When these two plates were measured up to find for positive satellite No. 1 its value came out from the ordinary ray patterri as and from the extraordinar .
ray pattern as .
From these considerations it will be seen that the explanation of the discrepancy is by no means evident .
All the measurements were made with extreme care and the calculations were always carefully checked over .
As pointed out in Table III , the value of was calculated to be for the fringe system formed by the extraordinary rays .
For the ordinary ray system of fringes its value was .
As these values differ by only 1 per cent. , it Messrs. J. C. McLennan and A. R. McLeod .
Table \mdash ; Satellites of Mercury Line When the light from this lamp was examined with a system consisting ' Lummer-Gehrcke plate cm .
thick and 30 cm .
long , crossed with a wedge .
shaped plate cm .
thick possessing a wedge angle of 40 Janicki foun that the main component of the green line consisted of a series of well-marked , very close lines .
Thus the suggestion is open that the greet line consists of a series of lines closing together towards the centre , thei ] positions being regulated by some law which in the outer components simplifies approximately to the geometric progression exhibited in Table It is interesting to note that a similar law having the ratio 3 : 5 as a basis approximately holds in regard to the distribution of the satellites of the mercury line .
This line belongs to the same series as the line , and is next in order to it .
But little attention has been given as yet t'o the structure of this line except by G. Wendt , examined it with a Rowland grating , and reports it as consisting of a strong main component accompanied by four satellites of wave-length greater and by foul of wave-length shorter than the main component .
These are collected in Table VII , and it will be seen that while the departures from the law are more marked than in the case of the line , there is a fairly * Wendt , 'Ann .
der Phys Folge IV , No. 37 , p. 635 ( 1913 ) .
of the camera .
With this arrangement the image in the focal plane consisted of two patterns of fringes which overlapped over a portion of their length .
Care taken to give the Wollaston prism such an orientation that with no field the fringes in the upper pattern were directly in line with those in the lower .
It was also arranged that the forming the upper pattern was polarised by the prism in a plane perpendicular to the lines of ' field .
force , and that forming the lower pattern polarised in a plane parallel to the On passing a current of small intensity through the electromagnet the main line fringes in the upper pattern became somewhat widened but were not displaced as a whole .
On the other hand , each of the main line fringes * McLennan , ' Roy .
Soc. ) , vol. 87 , p. 273 ( 1912 ) .
Messrs. J. C. McLennan and A. R. McLeod .
in the lower pattern became slightly widened and split up into a doublet , one member of the doublet being displaced to the right and the other to the left of the position initially occupied by the fringe .
When the field of the electromagnet was gradually increased , the fringes in the upper pattern continued to widen and finally broke up into wellmarked triplets .
On other hand , the members of the doublet in the lower pattern continued to separate from each other and to widen , and each finally broke up into a triplet .
In this way it was readily shown that the gleen line broke up into a nonet under moderate fields with the components of the outer triplets polarised parallel to the lines of force and the components of the inner triplet polarised perpendicularly to the lines of force .
The method just described also brought out the point that all the embers of the nonet were of equal intensity and that they were regularly equally spaced .
The method of coincidence which was applied consisted in so choosing the magnetic field , that the outer triplet on the left-band side of one order in the lower pattern exactly overlapped and coincided with the outer triplet on the right-hand side of the next higher order of the same pattern .
When fields stronger than those required for coincidence were used , the outer triplets in the lower pattern moved beyond the position of coincidence and produced a confused and indecipherable effect .
In the upper pattern the effect of increasing the field was only to spread out and make more marked the members of the triplet .
It is easy to see that when coincidence takes place the in wavelength , , of each of the central members of the outer tliplets of the nohet relative to that of the undisplaced line is equal to For coincidence we have then given by making a test of this method in which no special care was taken to get a highly accurate result it was found that coincidence was obtained with a field of 6921 gauss .
Since for the Lummer plate used was equal to cm .
, it followed that .
From this we have for a normal triplet , a value which is close to that found in some of the best determinations*with the lines in the mercury arc spectrum .
Summary .
1 .
The formula has been shown to be the one which * Nagaoka , ' Nature , ' May 6 , 1910 , p. 377 .
/

