On the Reproduction of Buds .
By Thomas Andrew Knight , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , K.B. P.R.S. Read May 23 , 1805 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1805 , p. 257 .
] Mr. Knight begins his paper by stating , that every tree , in the usual course of its growth , generates the buds that expand in the succeeding spring ; but if these buds are destroyed , during the winter or early part of the spring , other buds are in many species generated ; which buds perform the office of those that previously existed , except that they never afford blossoms or fruit .
This reproduction of buds has not escaped the notice of naturalists ; but it does not appear that they have ascertained from which of the various substances of the tree the reproduced buds derived their origin .
After noticing some erroneous opinions respecting the origin of buds , Mr. Knight proceeds to relate some observations and experiments made by him on this subject .
If the fruit-stalks of the Sea Cale ( Crambe maritima ) are cut off in the spring , the medullary substance decays , and a cup is formed , the sides of which consist of a woody substance , perfectly similar to the alburnum of trees .
From the interior part of this substance , new buds are frequently generated in the ensuing spring : hence it is obvious , that the buds , in this case , do not spring from the bark ; but it is not equally evident that they do not spring from some remains of the medulla .
In the autumn of 1802 , Mr. Knight discovered that the potato possessed a similar power of reproducing its buds ; which buds sprung from tubers generated on the surfaces made by the knife in dividing the root .
In a former paper he has given some reasons for supposing that the internal substance of the potato is alburnous ; he now observes , that there is in the young tuber a transparent line through the centre , which is probably its medulla ; and that the reproduced buds did not spring from the central part , nor from the surface in contact with the bark , but from what he has supposed to be the alburnum of the root .
The author now gives an account of the experiments made , in the autumn of 1802 , on young apple , pear , and plum trees , raised by him from seed , and , at that time , about two inches above the ground .
These plants , after removing some of the soil , were cut off , about an inch below where the seed-leaves formerly grew ; so that a portion of the root , about an inch long , and without any bud upon it , remained exposed .
In the beginning of April , many small elevated points were seen on the bark ; these appeared to proceed from the alburnum , and , as the spring advanced , perforated the bark , and produced shoots .
As it might be supposed that in the preceding experiments the buds may have originated from the medulla , Mr. Knight thought it right to make some similar experiments on old trees ; and found the buds were reproduced by such trees , exactly in the same manner as by the annual roots .
Mr. Knight , in a former paper , has remarked , that the ceIltral vessels appear to derive their origin from the alburnous tubes ; he now thinks it not improbable that the lateral , as well as the terminal orifices of the alburnous tubes , may possess the power of generating central vessels , and that these vessels give existence to the reproduced buds and leaves .
Mr. Knight attempted to discover in seeds a similar power to regenerate their buds ; but no experiments he could make were decisive , as he was never able to satisfy himself that all the buds could be eradicated without the base of the plumula being destroyed .
The power of reproducing buds here treated of , is not possessed , Mr. Knight says , by annual or biennial plants ; but he relates that a turnip , from which the greater part of its fruit-stalks had been cut off , and of which all the buds had been destroyed , remained some weeks in an apparently dormant state ; the first seed in each pod then germinated , and , bursting the seed-vessel , seemed to perform the office of a bud and leaves to the parent plant during the short remaining term of its existence .
Mr. Knight takes this opportunity to correct an inference drawn by him , in a former paper , from an experiment in which , after inverting a shoot of a vine and removing a portion of its bark , more new wood was generated on the lower lip of the wound , now become uppermost , than on the opposite lip .
He has there inferred , that this effect was produced by sap which had descended from the leaves above .
But as the branch was employed as a layer , the matter which would have accumulated on the opposite lip of the wound had been expended in the formation of roots ; a circumstance which , at that time , escaped Mr. Knight 's attention .

