The following papers were read , viz. ยง 1 .
" Researches into the Structure and Developement of a newly discovered parasitic Animalcule of the Human Skin , the Entozoon folliculorum " By Erasmus Wilson , Esq. , Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology at the Middlesex Hospital .
Communicated by R. B. Todd , M.D. , F.R.S. While engaged in researches on the minute anatomy of the skin and its subsidiary organs , and particularly on the microscopical composition of the sebaceous substance , the author learned that Dr. Gustow Sirnon of Berlin had discovered an animalcule which inhabits the hair follicles of the human integument , and of which a description was published in a memoir contained in the first Number of Muller 's Archiv for 1842 .
Of this memoir the author gives a translation at full length .
He then states that , after careful search , he at length succeeded in finding the parasitic animals in question , and proceeded to investigate more fully and minutely than Dr. Simon had done the details of their structure , and the circumstances of their origin and developement .
They exist in the sebaceous follicles of almost every individual , but are found more especially in those per ?
sons who possess a torpid skin ; they increase in number during sickness , so as in general to be met with in great abundance after death .
In living and healthy persons , from one to three or four of these entozoa are contained in each follicle .
They are more numerous in the follicles situated in the depression by the side of the nose ; but they are also found in those of the breast and abdomen , and on the back and loins .
Their form changes in the progress of their growth .
The perfect animal presents an elongated body , di ?
visible into a head , thorax , and abdomen .
From the front of the head proceed two moveable arms , apparently formed for prchension : and to the under side of the thorax are attached four pairs of legs , terminated by claws .
The author distinguishes two principal varieties of the adult animal ; the one remarkable for the great length of the abdomen and roundness of the caudal extremity ; whilst the other is characterized by greater compactness of form , a shorter abdomen , and more pointed tail .
The first variety was found to measure , in length , from the one-lOOth to the 45th , and the second , from the one-160th to the 109th part of an inch .
The author gives a minute description of the ova of these cntozoa , which hc follows in the successive stages of their developement .
The paper is accompanied by numerous drawings of the objects described .

