60 Mr. Lydekker .
On Generic [ Dec. 18,1 assumption of the accuracy of the 3-formula , and have not been directly referred to the air thermometer .
We believe , however , that they are probably correct to 0''l C. , and that they may be safely used to standardise thermometers of limited range , in cases where it may happen to be inconvenient to make use of the sulphur point .
In comparing the platinum and air thermometers between 0 ' and 100 ' C. observations were taken at intervals of 5 ' all the way up .
The mean deviation of the observations from the parabolic formula ( d ) is only 0''006 .
This corresponds to the limit of accuracy of the barometric readings , and there is no reason to suppose that the 3-formula may not represent the difference even more closely than this .
The same platinum thermometer has been compared with several mercury thermometers standardised at Kew.* The result seems to show that .the Kew standard reads 0o , l C. lower than our air-thermometer at 30 ' .
II .
" On the Generic Identity of Sceparnodon and }* ' By R. Lydekker , B A.Communicated by Professor W. H. Flower , C.B. , F.R.S. Received November 19 , 1890 .
[ Plate 1 .
] In the year 1872 , Sir Richard Owen described and figured in the ' Phil. Trans.'f two imperfect lower jaws of a large extinct Wombat , from the Pleistocene of Queensland , under the name of Phdscolomys ( Phascolonus ) gig as , the term Phascolon being employed in a subgeneric sense .
The species Phascolomys gigas , it should be observed , was founded by the same writer J at an earlier date , upon the evidence of a detached cheek-tooth .
Subsequently Sir Richard OwenS described and figured certain imperfect upper incisors , from Queensland and South Australia , characterised by their peculiarly flattened and chisel-like shape , under the new generic name , which was suggested from their contour .
In cataloguing the fossil Mammalia in the collection of the British Museum , || I was at once struck by the circumstance that , while the upper incisors of the so-called Phascolomys gigas were unknown , there were no cheek-teeth which could be referred to Sceparnodon , and it accordingly occurred to me that the two might prove to be identical .
Support was afforded to this conjecture by the following circumstances : 1st .
The incisors of Sceparnodon agreed fairly well in relative size * Griffiths , * Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1890 .
t Page 257 , PI .
36\#151 ; 38 , 40 .
% * Encyclopaedia Britannica , ' 8th ed. , vol. 17 , p. 175 ( 1859 ) .
S ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1884 , p. 245 , PL 12 .
j| 'Cat .
Eoss .
Mamm .
Brit. Mus. , ' pt .
5 , pp. 157\#151 ; 159 ( 1887 ) .
1890 .
] Identity of Sceparnodon and Phascoloiras .
with the jaws and cheek-teeth of Phascolomys 2nd .
The incisors of Sceparnodon were decidedly of a Wombat-like type , differing mainly from those of existing Wombats by their large size and excessive flattening and expansion .
3rd .
One of the incisors of Sceparnodon agreed so closely in the structure of the enamel , and the reddish stains upon the same , with an upper premolar of Phascolomys gigas , that I even suggested both teeth might have belonged to the same individual animal .
As the result of the above it was concluded that the teeth described as Sceparnodon Ramsay i were probably the upper incisors of Phascolomys gigas , and on this supposition it was considered that the latter was generically distinct from existing Wombats , and it was accordingly entered as Phascolonus gigas in the Museum catalogue .
Thus the matter stood till a short time ago , when I visited the Exhibition of the Mineralogical Products of New South Wales , recently held at the Crystal Palace .
Among the specimens exhibited was a small collection of Mammalian remains , obtained from clay beds , near Miall Creek , in the neighbourhood of Bingera , a station lying close to the northern border of New South Wales .
These deposits , which have only recently been brought to notice , and appear to be full of Mammalian remains , have been described by Mr. W. Anderson , in the ' Records of the Geological Survey of New South Wales .
* All the bones from these beds are of a characteristic pale-brown colour , by which they can be distinguished at a glance from those of all other Australian deposits .
The following account is taken from Mr. Anderson 's report , in order to give an idea of the richness of these ossiferous deposits .
This writer observes that " several tons of bones were recovered , but the majority of them were more or less broken , although many perfect specimens were procured .
Those which i occurred most frequently in the deposit were the long bones of the j limbs , the small bones of their distal extremities , and vertebrae , and , ; as a rule , these were also the most perfect , and in the best state of preservation .
Rib bones were rather common , but were mostly broken into short fragments .
Of the vertebrae , specimens of the axis and atlas were usually found entire , both in the case of those which had belonged to the smaller animals , such as the Kangaroo { Macropus ) , \amp ; c. , and also to the larger forms , such as Diprotodon , \amp ; c. Generally , however , only the bodies of the other vertebrae remained , the spines and the various processes having been broken off .
Jaws , both large and small , occurred frequently , while isolated teeth were very abundant .
The lower jaws of the larger forms were more frequently met with than the upper ; indeed , the latter were rather rare .
When they did occur , however , they never formed part of an entire cranium , but always consisted of the upper maxillary and palatal * Yol .
1 , pp. 116\#151 ; 225 ( 1889 ) .
\lt ; 52 Mr. Lydekker .
On Generic , [ Dec. 18 , bones only , the rest of the cranium being absent .
So far as I saw , there was no specimen that could be demonstrated to be a portion of the cranium proper of one of the larger animals , although there are undoubtedly small fragments of the cranial bones among the collection , which has , however , not yet been thoroughly examined .
The bones of the pelvis were of rare occurrence , fragments of the thickest part of the os innominatum , about the rim of the acetabulum , being the part generally met with .
In one instance , however , a very large portion of the pelvis of one of the larger animals was found , consisting of the greater part of one os innominatum , and the sacrum .
Nearly perfect specimens of large scapulae were in a few cases obtained , while fragments of the scapulae of smaller animals , generally con sisting of the articular head of the bone , with a portion of the neck and the coracoid process , the blade being wanting , were of frequent occurrence .
The remains of birds , although by no means common , were often met with .
" There can be little doubt as to the comparative age of this ossiferous deposit .
From the presence of pebbles of Tertiary basalt and tachylite , and the fact that the whole series rests upon the Tertiary basalt of the district , its origin is certainly of post-Tertiary date .
The thickness of the series , the occurrence in the deposit of angular , as well as rounded water-worn pebbles , together with the relation which the whole series bears to the general level of the country , all point to the supposition that it mom probably belongs to the Pleistocene than to the Recent period .
" The series of specimens from those deposits shown in the Exhibition , which may be taken as a fair sample of the whole , comprises various remains of Procoptodon ( the Macropus of Mr. Anderson ) , Biprotcdcn , Nototherium , molars and jaws of Phascolonus , and a large number of the incisors described as Sceparnodon .
It will thus be apparent that if Sceparnodon were a distinct genus , it would be represented only by upper incisors , while Phascolonus would be equally deficient in these teeth .
It is further noteworthy that all the Mammalian remains in the collection appear to belong to extinct genera , there being no evidence of the numerous species of Macropus and Phascolomys , which are so common in the Pleistocene of Queensland .
This feature suggests that the Bingera deposits are somewhat older than those of the area last named .
Seeing when , t an important bearing the remains from Bingera have on the question of the identity of Sceparnodon and Phascolonus , I requested permission from the Commissioners of the Exhibition to borrow some of the specimens so named , a request which was at once most courteously acceded to .
In due course I received from the Commissioners part of the right ramus of the mandible of Phascolonus , together with three imperfect 1890.J Identity ofSceparnodon andPhascolonus .
63 incisors of the so-called Sceparnodon .
Of these , the lower jaw and the best preserved of the upper incisors are figured in the accompanying Plate .
The lower jaw ( Plate 1 , figs. 2 , 2a ) has been much crushed , and appears to have belonged to an individual just attaining maturity .
It contains the third and fourth molars in a perfect condition , the second molar somewhat damaged , part of the root of the first molar , and the base of the incisor .
The fragment agrees in all respects with the nearly complete ramus figured in the * Phil. Trans.7 for 1872 , PI .
36 , 37 , and , like the latter , shows that Phascolonus differs from living Wombats in the relatively smaller size of the last molar , more especially as regards its second lobe .
The Queensland specimen also shows that the mandibular symphysis of the extinct form was much larger , and also relatively wider at its anterior extremity , than in Phascolornys , These features alone would , perhaps , be sufficient to justify the generic separation of the extinct form as Phascolonus , and the great width of the anterior part of the symphysis is especially significant , as being apparently adapted to fit with the wide upper incisors described as Sceparnodon .
The fragment of the upper incisor represented in figs. 1 , la , belongs to the right side , and accords closely with the specimens figured in the 'Phil .
Trans.* for 1884 , PI .
12 , as the types of Sceparnodon , although it is still wider than either of those examples .
The cutting-edge is entire , and exhibits the same oblique bevelling on the posterior surface that is shown in two of the specimens figured by Sir R. Owen .
Both the anterior and posterior surfaces are covered by a coating of cement , and while there is a well-marked layer of enamel on the anterior surface , on the opposite aspect this element is either totally wanting , or reduced to a rudiment .
The structure and colour of the cement , enamel , and dentine agree in all respects with those of the molars in the lower jaw of Phascolonus , and , allowing for their greater relative width and flattening , the upper incisors accord in proportionate size with the lower molars , as deduced from a comparison with a recent Wombat .
With the foregoing circumstantial evidence before us , I therefore venture to consider that we are now justified in definitely regarding the so-called genus Sceparnodon as based upon the upper incisors of the gigantic extinct Wombat known as Phascolonus .
From the great width of the upper incisors as compared with the lower ones , it is pretty evident that the former must have worked somewhat obliquely against the latter .
An interesting question arises as to the nature of the food which these excessively wide , and apparently fragile , c isel-like , upper incisors were adapted to cut ; but the answer to this question I must leave to those intimately acquainted with the recent and Pleistocene flora of Australia .
fi4 Mr. S. Delepine .
Contribution to [ Dec. 18 , DESCRIPTION O PLATE 1 .
[ Remains of JPhascolonus gig as .
Figs. 1 , la.\#151 ; Anterior and posterior aspects of an imperfect upper incisor .
Figs. 2 , 2a.\#151 ; Outer and oral aspects of a fragment of the right mandibular ramus .
m. 1 , m. 2 , m. 3 , m. 4 , molars ; i , incisor .
All the figures three-quarters natural size .
IIL " Contribution to the Study of the Vertebrate Liver .
" By Sheridan Delepine , M.B. Edin .
Communicated by T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received November 20 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) Preliminary Remarks.\#151 ; The following observations were made at the end of last year in the course of an investigation touching the action of drugs on cellular structure carried out by Dr. Lauder Brunton and myself , for the Royal Society .
Arrangement of the Hepatic Columns in a Classical Liver Lobule.\#151 ; i The following arrangement is visible in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the terminal vessels occupying the centre and the periphery of such a lobule .
The columns of cells extend radially round the hepatic veins only in the direction of the portal veins , that is , in three , four , or five directions at most .
In the intermediate region the columns present a typical feathery arrangement .
The line from which the columns diverge will be called hereafter hepatic line of divergence .
A similar arrangement is found around the terminal portal veins , giving rise to what I call portal lines of divergence .
Towards the portal lines of divergence the columns of cells become smaller in diameter , and join each other , becoming continuous with narrow tubes lined with flat epithelium and having the character of intermediate tubes .
These narrow channels open into more distinct terminal bile ducts .
Arrangement of the Pile Canaliculi.\#151 ; The liver columns branch from the portal lines of divergence towards the hepatic lines .
This branching is , however , generally obscured by lateral anastomoses , but it becomes more evident when the bile canaliculi are distinct .
Two sets of bile canaliculi may be recognised : 1 .
The main canaliculi , occupying the axis of the columns of cells and becoming comparatively wide in the portal zone ; it is the branch-ing of these which renders that of the columns so evident in some specimens .
2 .
The lateral canaliculi , which pass between the cells forming the walls of the main canaliculi .

