]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
HOPKINSON , JOHN , and , E.\mdash ; On the Capacity and Residual Charge of Dielectrics , as affected by Temperature and Time .
Phil. Trans. , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 109-136 .
WILSON , E. , and HOPKINSON .
JOHN.\mdash ; On the Capacity and Residual Charge of Dielectrics , as affected by Temperature and Time .
Phil. Trans. , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 109-136 .
Capacity ( specific inductive ) of Castor Oil , Glass , Glycerine , Ice , Oil of Lavender\mdash ; variation of with Temperature and Time .
Hopkinson , John , and Wilson , Phil. Trans. , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 109-136 .
Conductivity of Castor Oil , Glass , Ice , Oil of Lavender , Water\mdash ; variation of with Temperature and Time .
Hopkinson , John , and Wilson , E. Phil. Trans. , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 109-136 .
Residual Charge , laws of ; Observations of in Glass and Ice as affected by Temperature , Hopkinson , John , and Wilson .
E. Phil. Trans. , 1897 , vol. 189 , pp. 109-136 .
109 ] IV .
On the ] and Resiclual Char of Dielectrics ffected by Temperaturand Time .
J. HOPKINSON , F.R.S. , E. WILSON .
Recoived December 15 , \mdash ; Read January 28 , 1897 .
BEFORE describing the experiments* forming the principal subject of this communication , and their results , it may be convenient to shortly state the laws of residual charge .
Let be the potential at any time of a condenser , e.g. , a glass flask , let be the time integral of current through the flask up to time , or , in other words ; let be the electric displacement , including therein electric displacement due to ordinary conduction .
If the potential be applied for a short time , let the displacement at time , after time has elapsed from the application of force be ; this assumes that the effects produced are proportional to the forces them ; that is , that we may add the effects of simultaneouslyelectromotive forces .
Generalise this to the extent of assuming that we add the effects of successively-applied electromotive forces , then This is nothing else than a slight generalisation of OHM'S Law , and of the law that the charge of a condenser is proportional to its potential .
Experiments were tried some years ago for the purpose of this law of superposition as regards capacity .
It was shown the elecbrost , atic capacity of light flint remained constant up to 5,000 volts per millimetre ( Phil. Trans. , ' 1881 , Part II .
, p. 365 ) .
The consequences of deviation from proportionality were considered ( ' Proc. Roy .
Soc. , ' 1886 , vol. 41 , p. 453 ) , and it was shown that , if the law held , the capacity as determined by the method of attractions was al to that determined by the method of condensers ; this is known to be the case with one or two doubtful exceptions ( ibid. , p. 458 ) .
Rough experiments have been made to show that residual charge proportional to potential ; they indicate that it is ( Phil. Trans. , ' vo ] .
167 , Part II .
) .
The integral includes in itself ordinary ) .
* These experiments were commenced in the summer of 1894 , and we have to thank Messrs. C. J. EVANS and R. E. SHAWCROSS for valuable assistance rendered during .
the pel.iod of their Domopstratorship in the Siemens Laboratory , King 's College , London .
12.4.97 after electrification for time .
It has of course been long known that in stating the conductivity or resistance of the di-electric of a cable , it is necessary to state the time during which it has been electrified ; hence is for many not constant .
may perhaps be defined to be the true conductivity of the condenser , but at all events we have as the expression of the reciprocal of a resistance measurable , if we please , in the reoiprocal of ohms .
For convenience we now separate from and write for , .
If we were asked to define the capacity of .
condenser we should probably say : " " suppose the condenser be charged to potential X for a considerable time and then be short-circuited , let be the total quantity of.electricity which comes out of it , then is thq capacity If be the time of charging at the moment of short circuiting ; after time of discharge .
Thel amount which comes out of the condenser is the difference of these , or ; if be infinite ; or we now have capacity expressed as an integral of and measurable in micro- , farads , and it appears that the capacity is a function of the time of charge increasing .
as the time increases .
Experiments have been made for testing this point in } the case of light flint glass , showing that the capacity was the same for 1/ 20000 second and for !
ordinary durations of time Phil. Trams , doubtless because dcv is small eompared with , when is indefinitely diminished , may be zero , have a finite value , or be infinite ; in fact i has a finite value .
The value of when is extremely small haffiy observed ; but , when is small , can be observed .
is therefore venient to treRt that part of the expression separately , even though we may conoeive it to be quite ns with the other parts of the expression .
' is less than the shortest time at we cau make obServations of is the instantaneous capacity of the .
condenser .
it and suppose the form of to be so modified that all observed times it has the observed when is smaU enough .
1 Then y .
Here the first .capa the second residual charge , the third eonductivity , for convenienee , though CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIEhECTRICS .
really all parts of a continuous.magnitude .
Suppose now our condenser be submitted to a periodically varying electromotive force , that pt , then : The effect of residual charge is to add to the capacity the term whilst the term pt will have the effect of conductivity as regard the phases of the currents into the flask .
Thus the nature of the effect will .
depend upon the form of the function .
An idea may be obtained by assuming a form for , , where is a proper fraction .
This is a fair approximation to .
the truth .
Then If is near to unity , capacity is almost entirely affected ; otherwise the effect is divided between the two , and dissipation of energy will occur .
It is interesting to consider what sort of conductivity a good insulator such as light flint glass , according this view of capacity , residual charge , and conduction , would have at ordinary temperatures if we could measure its conductivity after very short times of electrification ; if , in fact , we could extend the practice used for telegraph cables and specify .
that the test of insulation should be made after the one hundred millionth of a second instead of after one minute , as is usual for cables .
The capacity of light flint measured with alternating currents with a frequency of two millions a second is practically the same as when measured in the ordinary way ; that is , its capacity will be .
Its index of refraction is or , or , say , .
We have then to account in a certain short time .
The current is an alternating current , and we may assume approximation that it will be the residual charge which comes out in one-sixth of the period which produces this effect on the capacity ; therefore capacity of the flask as ordinarily measured .
The capacity of a fairly thin flask may be taken to be 1/ 1,000 microfarad to microfarad ; hence we may take to be farad ; if were constant during this time its value must be about .
The value of enormously large compared with the period oflight waves , much less than 80 ohms .
[ Added 11th March , 1897.\mdash ; Somewhat similar considerations are to conduction by metals .
MAXWELL pointed ont that the transparency of gold was much greater than would be inferred from its conductivity measured in the ordinary way .
To put the same thing another way\mdash ; the conductivity of gold as inferred from its transparency is much less than as measured electrically with ordinary times .
Or the conductivity of gold increases after the application of electromotive force .
Suppose then we have a current in gold caused by an electromotive force which is increasing , the current be less than it would be if the electromotive force were constant , by an amount approximately proportional to the rate of increase .
If be the current , the electromotive force , .
where is the conductivity as ordinarily measured .
This gives us the equation of light transmission assuming that we have no capacity in gold .
Professor J. J. THONSON gives as a result of some experiments by DRUDE that the capacity of all metals is negative .
This conclusion isjust what we should expect , if we assume , as MAXWELL has shown , that the conductivity of metals increases with the time during which the electromotive force is applied .
] The experiments herein described are addressed to ascertaining the effect of temperature , first on residual charge as ordinarily known , second on capacity as ordinarily known , third to examining more closely how determinations of capacity are affected by residual charge , fourth to tracing the way in which the properties of insulators can continuously change to those of an electrolyte as ordinarily known .
The bodies principally examined are soda-lime glass , as this substance exhibits interesting properties at a low temperature , and ice , as it is known that the capacity of ice for such times as one-tenth of second is about 80 , and for times of one-millionth of a second of the order of 3 or less .
RESIDUAL CHARGn As AFFBCTED BY TEMPERATURE .
Experiments on this subject have been made by one of us which showed that residual charge in glass increases with temperature up to a certain temperature , but that the results became then uncertain owing to the conductivity of the glass increasing .
These experiments were made with an electrometer , the charge set free in the flask being measured by the rate of rise of potential on insulation .
We now replace the electrometer by a delicate galvanometer and measure the current directly without sensible rise of potential .
Fig. 1 gives a diagram of connections .
The glass to be experimented upon is blown into a thin flask , with thick glass in the neck to diminish the effiet of CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
charge ereeping above the level of the acid , and is filled with ] phuric acid to the shoulder ; it is then placed in sulphuric acid in a glass beaker , which forms the inner lining of a copper vessel consisting of two concentric tubes between which oil is placed .
Thermometers , , placed iu the acid outside the jar in the oil , are made to register the same , or nearly the same , temperatures when taking observations , but gives the temperature taken for the flask .
The flask is heated by a Bunsen burner placed under the copper vessel .
Two electrodes , insulated from and out was made to wet the flask up to a level higher than the acid would reach at the highest temperatures .
The four electrodes , , are connected respectively by thin copper wires , with four mercury cups 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , cut in a block of paraffin , and , by means of a reversing switch and , can be comlected respectively to mercury cups 5 , 6 .
Cups 5 , 6 are connected respectively to 7 , 8 by thin wires , which can in turn be colmected with or disconnected from the source of charge 9 , 11 .
The steady potential difference of about 1,500 volts is obtained from a Siemens alternator , in series with a revolving contact maker fixed to the alternator shaft and making contact once per complete period , there being six periods per revoIution .
The contact-maker is set to make contact when the potential difference is a maximum .
A condenser , and a Kelvin vertical electrostatic voltmeter V , are placed in parallel between the connecting wires leading to mercury cups 9 , 11 .
The galvanometer has a resistance of 8,000 ohms and is enclosed in an iron box which acts as a magnetic shield .
The box is supplied with a small window for the ray oflight to pass through it from an incandescent lamp to the mirror from which it is reflected back through the window to a scale at a distance of 12 feet from the mirror .
The divisions on this scale are of an inch apart , and an average sensibility for this instrument is ampere per division of the scale .
The galvanometer is supplied with a shunt , and has its terminals connected to mercury cups 13 , 14 on the paraffin block .
These mercury cups are connected to cups 10 , 12 respectively , which can at will be connected to 7 , 8 , by one motion of the glass distance-piece forming part of the reversing switch which places 9 , 11 , or 10 , 12 , in contact with 7 , 8 .
A switch is so arranged that 13 , 14 can be connected at wil ] , that is , the galvanometer is short circuited .
The process of charging , discharging , and observing , is as follows :Near the observer is a clock beating seconds which can be distinctly heard by the observer .
Initially , the cups 9 , 11 , are disconnected from 7 , 8 ; but 5 , 1 , and 6 , 2 , are corinected .
At the given moment the reversing switch is put over connecting 7 , 9 , and 11 , 8 ; thejar is then being charged through electrodes .
This goes on for the desired time , during which charging volts and zero of the instrument are noted .
At the end of the time required for charge , the main reversing swit , ch is put over connecting 7 , 10 , and 8 , 12 ; next the subsidiary switch is put over connecting 3 to 5 and 4 to 6 , and on opening the short.circuiting switch , the spot of light is deflected and allowed to take up its natural state of movement determined by residual charge , readings being taken at stated epochs after discharge is started .
This whole tior , including an adjustment of the shunt when neoessary , so speedily that reliable readings could be taken 5 seconds after discharge is started .
By CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
two electrodes , polarization of electrodes is avoided , and the current through the galvanometer is that due to residual charge .
The conductivity of the jar is determined by removing the glass distance piece , connecting 7 to 9 , 8 to , and 10 to 11 , and noting the steady flection on the galvanometer for a given charging potential difference .
In the ice experiment , the conductors from 3 , 4 , are used both for charging and discharging .
The form of condenser used when dealing with ice and liquid dielectrics is shown in fig. 2 .
It ists of seven platinum plates , , each measuring 2 inches by 3 inches , and of a thickness .
millim. , separated from each other by a distance of millims. To each plate are gold-soldered four platinum wires\mdash ; two top and two bottom .
Plates , form the outer coating of the condenser , and are kept in their relative positions by cross connecting wires , gold-soldered to the wires at each end of each plate .
Similarly , plates , which form the other and inner coating of the condenser , are fixed relative]y to one another by cross connecting wires .
The relative positions of the two sets of plates are fixed by glass rods 1 , 2 .
The terminals of the condenser are , for the imler plates the prolonged wire 3 , and for the outer plates the wires 4 , 4 .
These are bent round glass rods 5 , 6 , which resting on the top of a beaker support the plates in the fluid .
The glass tubes on the wires 3 , 4 , 4 , are for the purpose of securing good surface insulation .
The glass beaker is conical , so as to remain unbroken when freezing the distilled water within .
This was accomplished 116 MESSRS .
J. HOPKINSON AND E. WILSON or by surrounding the beaker with a freezing mixture of and salt , the : .
temperature being obtained by further cooling in carbonic acid anov .
The same blue flask , which was the subject of the earlier experiments , was ted as shown in fig. 1 , and the residual charge observed for various temperatures .
This glass is composed of silica soda and lime ; the colour is due to oxide of oobalt in small quantity .
of a large number of experiments the data in Tables I. and II .
give the general character of the results .
TABLE I. TABLE II .
TABLE 1IL CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
The figures given are , the deflections of the galvanometer in scale divisions corrected for the shunt used .
Recalling that one scale division means a known value in amperes , that a known potential in volts is used , these figures can readily be reduced to ohms .
The capacity of the flask is microfarad at ordinary temperatures and times , and the inductive capacity of its material under similar conditions is about 8 .
Hence one could reduce to absolute conductivities of the material .
It is more interesting to consider how fast the capacity is changing .
Take the first result given in Table III .
for another flask 75 at 10 seconds ; this means a conductivity about 0 , and this is , of course , the rate in farads per second at which the capacity is changing in that experiment compared with a capacity of the flask microfarad measured with the shortest times , or : to put it shortly , the flask owing to residual charge is changing capacity at the rate of about 3 per cent. per second .
These figures also show that the residual charge up to 20 seconds increases greatly with the temperature ; the residual at 60 seconds rises with the temperature up to about C. or C. , and then diminishes ; residual charge at 300 seconds begins to diminish at about C. One may further note the way in which the fonn of the function changes as temperature rises .
Compare in Table I. the values for 20 and 30 seconds , the ratios Temperature .
15 70 85 117 132 , Ratio . . . .
In other words , if we expressed in the form , we should find diminishes as temperature rises to , then increases as the temperature further rises .
This an important bearing upon the effect of residual charge on apparent capacity and resistance .
It will be noticed that the residual charge , for the same time , at high temperatures , is somewhat greater in Table II .
than L The results in Table I. were obtained on November 7th , 1894 ; those in Table II .
on November 13th , 1894 .
There is no doubt but that heating this glass and submitting it charge when heated , alters the character of the results in such manner as to increase residual charge for high temperatures .
To test this more thoroughly , a new flask was blown out of window glass composed of silica lime and soda without colouring matter , and on January 3rd , 1895 , was charged and discharged in the ordinary manner .
After the results given in Table III .
for January 3rd were obtained , the flask was charged for 21 minutes at 1,500 volts , the direction of charge being reversed after 10 minutes , the temperature of the flask being .
We see that on January 4th , Table III .
, the same effect is observed , namely an apparent increase in residual charge for the same time at high temperatures .
This may probably be attributed to a change in the composition of the material by electrolysis .
the purpose of determining the capacity of insulators , such as window or ice , at varying temperatures . ?
.'his is a bridge method , the flask being placed in series with a condenser of known capacity , and on the other side non-induotivo resistances .
By means of keys , the bridge can be connected to the poles of a Siemens alternator ; its potential difference is sured on a Kelvin multicellular voltmeter V. On the shaft of the alternator is the revolving oontaotmaker , which makes contact once in a period , and the epooh can be chosen .
The Kelvin quadrant electrometer has one pair of quadrants connected to a pole of the revoIving contact-maker , and the other to a mercury cup 4 in a block of paraffin .
The other terminal of is connected to thejunction between and ; by means of mercury cups 1 , 2 , 3 , the electrometer can be connected through the contactmaker to either end , or to the middle of the bridge .
The compensating resistance is the resistance due to pencil lines drawn on fine obscured glass strip , *about 1 inches long and inch wide .
contact being made at each end by means of mercury in a small paraffin cup , and the whole varnished whilst hot with shellac varnish .
A series of these resistances was made , ranging in value from a few megohms to a few tens of thousands of ohms .
For the purpose of these experiments a knowledge of their actual resistance is of no moment , although for the purpose of manipulation their resistances are known .
The method of experiment is as follows :Mercury cups 1 and 4 conneoted by a wire , placing the electrometer and contact-maker across , and the contact-maker is moved until it indicates no potential .
Cups 3 , 4 are now connected , and wistanoe B is adjusted until the electrometer again reads zero .
After a few trials , ely * See ' Phil , Mag March , 1879 , CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
pJaciog the bridge between 1 , 4 and 3 , 4 : and adjusting , the potentials are brought into the same phase , that is , the potential across the electrometer is zero in each for the same position of the contact-maker .
Mercury cups 2 , 4 are now connected , the contact-maker is adjusted to the point of maximum potential , and adjusted until balance is obtained .
We now know that is the ordinary key supplied with the electrometer , reverses the charge on the quadrants or short circuits them .
The range of frequency varies from 100 to 7 or 8 complete periods per second .
( B. ) High Frequency .
For high frequencies a method of resonance is used , and the apparatus shown in fig. 4 .
The primary coil consists of 1 , 9 , or 160 turns of copper wire 4 feet in diameter , having a condenser in its circuit and two adjustable sparking knobs .
The secondary is placed with its plane parallel to that of the primary , and at a distance of 4 or 5 feet from it ; adjustable spark knobs are provided in its circuit , which consists of 1 , 9 , or 160 turns of copper wire of the same diameter as the primary .
The diameter of the wires for the 1 , 9 , and 160 turns are respectively , and millims. A Ruhmkorff coil excites the primary .
Between the spark knobs are placed the capacity to be found , and a large slicie condenser K. The method is one of substitution , that is to say , maximum resonance is obtained with both condensers attached by variation of is removed and maximum resonance again obtained by increase of K. In order to bring on the scale for the two maxima , it is necessary to adjust , the condenser in the primary .
This condenser consists This method , we find , has boen nsed by , 'Physical Society 's ' vol. 1 , p. 79 .
obtained .
Platinum-foil was used for the electrodes in the acid inside and outside the jar in the ' experiments instead of wire , as shown in fig. 1 , in order to secure thal the connections should not add materially to the self-induction of the circuit .
The frequency is calculated from the formula Frequency where is the capacity in secondary in microfarads , is the self-induction in centimetres .
where is the number of turns on the secondary , is the diameter of the ring feet , is the diameter of wire on secondary .
When centimetres .
If be taken microfarad the frequency is The lowest frequency we have tried with this apparatus is when .
If be taken microfarad , the frequency is 8,400 .
That the capacity of some kinds of glass does not vary much with a moderate variation of temperature is known ( Phil. Trans 1881 , p. 865 ) .
Experiments were tried on the same blue flask as before , using the method in fig. 3 .
The results obtained and many times repeated for a frequency of 70 or 80 are given in Table IV .
As the specific inductive capacity of this flask , measured in the ordinary manner , is about 8 , it appears that at it is about 21 .
Knowing from the results in Tables I. and .
how great was the residual charge for high temperatures and short times , it appeared probable that the result would depend upon the frequency .
This was found to be the case , as shown by the results of November 26 , 1894 , Table IV .
, the apparent capacity being somewhat more than one-half at frequency 100 of what it is at frequency .
Experiments on the window-glass flask show the same result .
The next step was to determine whether or not this large increase of apparent capacity was due to residual charge .
To do this the resonance experiments fig. 4 were resorted to and the capacity of the flask was determined with a frequency of about ; it was found to be sensibly the same whether the flask were hot or cold .
The results show that the capacity varies from 185 to 198 in arbitrary units with a variation of temperature from to .
With frequency 8,400 the capacity varies from 240 to 285 in arbitrary units for a variation of temperature CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF LECTRICS .
from to , but here the sensibility was not so good as with the higher frequency .
We conclude that the apparently great capacity of this glass at a temperature from to is due to residual charge , but that the effects of this part of the residual charge are not greatly felt if the frequency is greater than about 10,000 a second .
The extent to which the capacity of the window-glass flask is affected by the frequency at ordinary temperatures , C. , is shown by the following figures:\mdash ; Frequency 12 39 70 Capacity 0008 001 TABLE IV .
CONDUCTIVITY AFTLR ELECTRIFICATION SHORT TIMES .
The Battery.\mdash ; This consists of 12 series of small storage cells , fig. 5 , each series containing 50 ] .
The poles of each set of 50 cells are connected to mercury cups in a paraffin block , and numbered 1 , 3 , 5 , . .
21 , 23 , on the positive side ; 2 , 4 , 6 , . .
22 , 24 , on the negative .
Cups , are connected to the poles of the 56 cells in the Laboratory , and therefore , by connecting , 1 , 2 . .
21 , 23 , tcgether on the one side , and 2 , 4 , . .
22 , 24 , , together on the other side , the cells can be charged in parallel .
For the purpose of these experiments , a large potential difference is required ; this is obtained by removing the charging bars , and replacing them by a series of conductors connecting to 1 , 2 to 3 .
22 to 23 , 24 to .
In this manner , the whole of the 600 cells are placed in series with one another .
Across the terminals , are placed a condenser of about microfarads , and a Kelvin vertical electrostatic voltmeter V. order to change over quickly , and for the purpose of safety , the charging bars and connections for aCing the cells in series mounted on wood .
The Contact Apparatus.\mdash ; This consists of a wooden pendulum carrying lead weights , which were not moved during the experiments .
The pendulum is released from the position by the withdrawal of a brass plate , and , swinging forward , strikes a small steel contact piece , carried on a pivoted arm of ebonite .
The initial position of this ebonite arm determined by a contact pin , about inch diameter , contact being maintained by a spring with an abutting rod insulated from a brass supporting tube by means of gutta-percha .
This insulated rod is continued by a copper wire to the insulated pole of a quadrant electrometer Q. The brass supporting tube is continued by means of a metallic tape covering on the outside of the insulated wire , and connected to the case and other quadrant of the electrometer .
If , then , the pendulum be released from position , the time which elapses between the terminal piece first touching the plate , and the time at which contact is broken between and the insulated stop is the shortest time we have been abJe to employ in these experiments , its duration being second .
For longer times an additional device , shown in plan only , is used .
It consists of a brass pillar , which carries a steel spring , and which is moved to and fro in V-shaped slides by means of a screw provided with a milled head which is divided into twenty equal parts on the outside surface .
A pointer fixed to the frame indicates the position of the head , and a scale qn the brass slide shows the number of revolutions of the head from zero position .
The pendulum steel piece is of sufficient width to touch the spring as it moves forward and strikes the plate The zero of the spring is determined electrically by moving forward the pillar , and noting the position of the milled head when contact is first made , the steel piece being in contact with , but not disturbing its initial position .
The plate is connected by a flexible wire with the slides which are in connection with the spring through its support .
When , therefore , the spring leads the plate by any distance , the time of contact is that time which elapses between first striking and the severance of contact between the pin and its stop , always supposing that keeps in contact with S. A good deal of trouble was experienoed before making this contact device satisfactory .
The ebonite arm canying and was originally of metal , being insulated ; but inductive action rendered the results untrustworthy .
Then again , the spring , when first struck by the pendulum evidently again severed contact before was reached .
To get over this difficulty a subsidiary series of fine steel wires were attached to , so that as the pendulum moves forward the wires are one after the other struck .
In order that the pendulum should nut foul these wires or the spring on its return to position , it was slightly pressed forward by the hand at its central position .
The method adopted is that of the bridge .
Starting from mercury cups , we proceed by a fine wire to the terminal , and thence , by a wire passing down the pendulum , to .
From we pass through spring and the pieoe during contact to one end of the bridge .
Ths flask , or condenser to be experimented CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF LECTRICS .
is placed in series with .metallic resistances , these forming one arm of the bridge , the condensers forming the other arm .
The stop is connected to the junction between and ; and thejunQtion of is connected to the case of the electrometer by the outer conductor of the insulated wire leading to instrument .
The whole of the pendulum arrangement is suppo ] on feet .
In the first qtance pencil lives on glass were used , and ; but , for short times and varying current densities it was proved that these vere 124 MESSRS .
J. HOPKINSON AND E. WILSON ON TflE unreliable , when a knowledge of their actual resistance at the time of contact is taken to be the same as measured in the ordinary way on a Wheatstone bridge .
Time of Contact.\mdash ; The connections were altered from those in fig. to those in fig. 6 .
Eight dry cells having low internal resistance were used for charging .
In fig. 6 let be the capacity of the condenser , equal to microfarad .
Let be the capacity of the quadrant ometer at rest in zero position , equal to 000015 microfarad .
Let be the insulation resistance of , and the resistance through which the condensers are charged .
Let be the E.M.F. of the battery , V be the E.M.F. of condenser , and the time of contact in seconds .
Then To determine E. Let , ; the deflection of the electrometer needle from zero after the pendulum has struck gives in scale divisions .
fig To determine .
Let be known and great as compared with .
Let and let be such that the steady deflection from zero , V , affer pendulum has struck , is about equal to half E. , which gives CAPACITY ANDJ RESIDUAL CHARGE OF CTRICS .
The following are the values of in seconds , so deduced , in terms of revolutions of the milled head from zero : TURNS of milled head from zero .
TIME of contact in seconds .
The experiments have so far dealt with frequencies ranging to 8,000 , and 100 to 10 .
The gap between 8,000 and 100 , during which the great effects of residual charge become apparent , is filled up by experiments with the pendulum apparatus just described .
An attempt was made to fill up this gap by means of the method shown in fig. 6 , from which the effect on the capacity could be found for various times of contact , but this method was finally abandoned and used only for the determination of times of contact .
to fig. 5 , is the same window-glass flask mentioned above , and mounted as in fig. 1 ; is a non-inductive metal resistance , the effect of bhe capacity of which was at the most , when is large , only capable of disturbing our experiments to the extent of eight per cent. , but in most cases the disturbance is a small fraction of this ; is a one-third microfarad condenser , and the large slide condenser used in the other experiments .
The advantage of this method of experiment is that the charging potential difference V is great , and the actual ohmic resistance of is small as compared with that of the flask F. In this mannel the effect of the instantaneous capacity of the flask is overcome at once and the after effects due only to residual ) arge can be xamined directly .
results are shown iu 'l'able V. TABLE V.\mdash ; Window-Glass Flask .
-31st October , 1896 . .
Resistance box .
divisions of large slide condenser . .
Large slide .
When at zero of its own scale divisions .
When at \ldquo ; from highest frequency resonance experiments .
In the diagram , fig. 7 , giving curves of conductivity and time for given temperature , 1 ( jentim .
vertical .
1 centim. horizontal seconds .
Therefore , area gives capa.ity in rads .
CAPACITY AND RESTDUAL CHARGE OF CTRICS .
TABLE V. Flask .
-31st October , 1896\mdash ; ( continued ) .
C. 2@ MESSRS .
J. HOPKINSON AND B. WILSON OW TfIn TABLE V. ( continued).\mdash ; 10th November , 1896 .
Window-Glass Flask .
Solder used instead of Acid .
Let , and be discharged and let the potential difference V be applied to the bridge for time .
Let be the ohmic resistance of the flask at the end of time Let be its instantaneous capacity which is found by resonance at frequency .
Let be the potential across .
Then .
know , and , and measure Now is large compared to , hence , therefore is known ; let it equal A. Then we have We have recluced consistent with fair sensibility until the correction due to CAFAOITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
129 instantaneous capacity is so small as to be almost negligible , that is , until is sensibly equal to .
How far we have been able to carry this can be seen by an inspection of Table V. It is only for the shortest time of contact that the correction for kcomes at all sensible .
Fig. 7 .
All temperatures from to 14 were obtained by heating the flask as mounted in fig. 1 ; for 20 to about 35 acid was taken away and a solder , melting at about C. , substituted .
Since the solder only half filled the flask the conductivity should be about doubled for to 35 when comparing with the lower temperatures .
Since is the conductivity of the jar at time , let curves of conductivities be ; where is the instantaneous capacity which has been foumd by resonance to be microfarad for frequency divisions of the large slide oondenser .
The curves in fig. 7 have been integrated , and their area up to 0028 second , when reduced to microfarads and added to , shows that , for time of contact0028 second , the total capacity , which is 000588 at temperature , is 00087 at temperature .
This total capacity ninishes as the times of contact diminish , until we get to the results which resonance has shown ; and then the capacity of this flask is sensibly the same for all temperatures when the frequency is of the order per second .
ICE .
Ice was next examined , both in regard to its residual charge and its capacity .
The residual charge is considerable , and increases as the temperature rises .
Table VI .
gives the residua.1 charge of ice at two temperatures : the higher is produced by a freezing mixture of ice and salt , and is about C. ; the lower by placing carbonic acid snow round the beaker , the whole being wrapped in thick felt .
The apparent capacity depends on the frequency , as shown by the results in Table VII .
At \mdash ; 18o the capacity is twice as great with frequency 10 as with At the lower temperature the capacity is greater for frequency 9 than for frequency , in the ratio to unity .
The specific inductive capacity of ice was next determined , with a high frequency , by resonance : it was found to be about 3.* Decreasing the frequency to about 10,000 rendered the method by resonance less sensitive , but it is certain that the specific inductive capacity is , for this frequency , of the order 3 rather than 50 .
We conclude that the great deviation of ice from MAXWELL'S law is due to residual charge , which comes out between frequencies 10,000 and 100 .
Our next step was to determine the resistance , as in the case of glass , by the method shown in fig. 5 .
The platinum plates , fig. 2 , were used , and to observe the temperature of the ice a platinum wire of resistance ohms at C. was frozen in the ice and surrounded the condenser .
Table VIIL gives the results .
the capacity as given by the resonance experiments with frequency 2 X was 00022 microfarad .
Adding to this , we find that at time the total * TmWING finds to ; BLONDLOT 2 : Pnrnor 204 .
CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGB OF DIELECTRICS .
capacity is C. , whereas it is for the same time at C. The curves of conductivity are given in fig. 8 , and show the same character of results as those in the case of glass , fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
TABLE VI .
TABLE VII .
MESSRS .
J. HOPKINSON AND B. -d TABLE VIII.\mdash ; Ice .
5th November , 1896 .
: Resistance box .
Large slide condenser .
Instantaneous capacity of ice condenser See Resonance , ] No ember , 1895 .
CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
[ Added January , 1897 .
] CASTOR OIL .
oil was obtained from Messrs. HOPKIN and WILLIAMS , and was tested as supplied .
The platinum plates , fig. 2 , were submerged in this oil .
Resonance experiments give , for frequency , a capacity equal to 105 divisions on the large slide condenser .
For long times the method was not that shown in fig. 3 , but a bridge method , used in the earlier experiments , which a Ruhmkorff coil is used for exciting .
This test gives 139 scale divisions on the same slide condenser .
In air the plates have scale divisions .
We see , therefore , that at frequency the specific inductive capacity would be as against for long times .
The short-time contact experiments , fig. 5 , give the results in Table IX .
, the temperature of the oil being , from which we see that residual charge in this oil is considerable .
The total capacity after time of contact 006 second is 00034 ; whereas , with high frequency by resonance , it is 000287 microfarad .
The curve in fig. 9 gives the relation between conductivity and time of contact , and has been plotted from Table IX .
Fig. 9 .
of in Seconds .
* See ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 43 , p. 156 .
GLYCEiRINE .
This glycerine was obtained from Messrs. HOPKIN and WILLIAMB , and has been tested for purity and dried very carefully by Mr. HERBERT JACKSON , of the Chemical Department of King 's College , London .
The platinum plates , after careful cleaning in benzene , caustic-potash , and water were thoroughly dried and submerged iu the glycerine in a beaker , the whole being placed in a glass receiver over a strong dehydrating agent .
After exhaustion , just sufficient air was admitted to render the space inside sufficiently non-conducting to stop discharge between the terminals of the condenser whicn are sealed into glass tubes supported by an indiarubber stopper .
The short-contact experiments show that he apparent resistance is 60,000 ohms , whether the time of contact be 00002 or 001 second , showing that there is no residual charge .
The resonance experiments with high ffequency give 005 microfarad for the capacity with glycerine , whereas with air the condenser had capacity ; the specific inductive capacity is , therefore , about 60 .
A test made as with castor oil with a Ruhmkorff at low frequency was difficult , but a fair approximation *Taken from , since the negative value obtained is untrustworthy , probably owing to being still too large .
To satisfy NAXWBtb'S law , should microfarad .
CAPACITY AND RESIDUAL CHARGE OF DIELECTRICS .
was made by introducing a suitable compensating leakage into one of the other condensers of the bridge .
* The result indicated a capacity between 50 and 60 .
WATER .
The platinum plates ( fig. 2 ) were placed in ordinary distilled water in a beaker which was cooled to C. by a surrounding brine solution composed of water , common salt and ice .
experiments with the short-contact apparatus show no material difference in the apparent resistance , whether the time of contact be 00002 or 00099 second ; the apparent resistance for these times is 379 ohms .
The effects of residual charge in water do not affect the resistance within the range of times of contact given by this apparatus .
[ Added March 17th , 1897 .
] OIL 0F LAVENDER .
This oil was supplied by Messrs. HOPKIN and WILLIAMS : it was tested with the short-contact apparatus , fig. 5 , microfarad .
The charging potential was 1250 volts ; the following figures give the results:\mdash ; Time of contact in seconds .
00002 00099 0028 006 01 in ohms . . . . .
9500 14000 14800 14800 The high frequency resonance experiments give specific capacity : the frequency being of the order Two experiments were made at low frequency .
First , the Bridge method , fig. 3 , which gives the following results , the temperature of the oil being .
:\mdash ; FREQUENCY Charging Specific .
Second , the Bridge method with Ruhmkoffi coil as used in the castor oil experi .
ments .
Temperature .
Specific capacity Experiments have been made by STANKEWITSCH ( Wied .
Ann 52 ) , showing variable capacity for oil of lavender .
We , however , have not succeeded in obtain ing any result so high as his .
* This appears to have been done by NERNST , ' Physical Society 's Abstracts , ' vol. 1 , p. 38 .

