107 The Germicidal Action of Ultra-violet Radiation and its Correlation with Selective Absorption.\#151 ; Addendum .
By C. H. Browning , M.D. , and Sidney Russ , D.Sc .
( Communicated by W. B. Hardy , Sec. R.S. Received November 6 , 1917 .
) Our attention has been drawn to the work of Barnard and Morgan* mention of which was unfortunately omitted from our paper on " The Germicidal Action of Ultra-violet Radiation and its Correlation with Selective Absorption .
" !
Our work was suggested by the necessity for a strictly scientific analysis of recent statements regarding ( 1 ) the differentiation and isolation of allied organisms on the basis of varying susceptibility to the lethal action of this radiation ; and ( 2 ) the possibility of exercising a therapeutic effect in deep-seated infective lesions by exposing the adjacent body surface to a source of the radiation .
We regret that the above-cited communication was unknown to us at the time , since the authors have investigated the problem of bactericidal action by ultra-violet radiation by a method in general similar to that which we adopted , although their results differ from ours in several respects .
Thus , these authors state that , for a number of organisms , the germicidal radiation ranges between wave-lengths 3287 and 2265 , but they do not refer to differences in vulnerability among the various organisms .
Our own observations showed that the most germicidal region of the ultra-violet spectrum of the tungsten arc lies between wave-lengths 2940 and 2380 , and that , with prolonged exposure , the extent to which bactericidal action occurs on either side of these wave-lengths depends upon the particular organism investigated .
With regard to selective absorption of the rays , the authors state : " We have been unable to find that any of the radiations contained in the spectrum are penetrative to organic substances such as agar , or dead animal or vegetable tissue .
Neither can they penetrate living tissues , but we are continuing experiments in this direction to more exactly determine their action .
" Although it appears that they had given consideration to this point , the correlation of the germicidal action with the remarkably sharp selective absorption of the lethal radiations exhibited by suspensions of bacteria , solutions of protein , etc. , which we have demonstrated , does not seem to have been put to experimental test .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 72 , p. 126 ( 1903 ) .
t ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' B , vol. 90 , p. 33 .
VOL. XC.\#151 ; B. K

