74 Profs .
G. D. Living and J. Dewar .
[ Mar. 8 , angles to one another .
It seems to follow from this that the full photographic effect on the dry gelatine plates used by us ensues when the intensity of the light reaches a certain limit , but that for intensities of light beyond that limit there is no sensible increase in the effect until the stage of solarisation is reached .
II .
" Note on the Reversal of Hydrogen Lines ; and on the Outburst of Hydrogen Lines when Water is dropped into the Arc. " By G. D. Liveing , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 1 , 1883 .
The concentration of the radiation of hydrogen in a small number of spectral lines would lead us to expect that the absorption of light of the same refrangibility as those lines would , at the temperature of incandescence , be correspondingly strong , and that therefore the hydrogen lines would be easily reversed .
The mass of hydrogen which we can raise to a temperature high enough to show the lines is , however , so small , that notwithstanding the great absorptive power of hydrogen for the rays which it emits , the reversal of the lines has not hitherto been noticed .
We find , in fact , that the lines are very readily reversed , and the reversal may be easily observed .
When a short induction spark is taken between electrodes of aluminium or magnesium in hydrogen at atmospheric pressure , a large Leyden jar being connected with the secondary wire of the coil , the hydrogen lines show no reversal ; but if the pressure of the hydrogen be increased by half an atmosphere or even less , * the lines expand and a fine dark line may be seen in the middle of the F line .
As the pressure is increased this dark line becomes stronger , so that at two atmospheres it is very decided .
As the F line expands with increase of pressure the dark line expands too and becomes a band .
It is best seen when the pressure is between two and three atmospheres .
When the pressure is further increased the dark band becomes diffuse , and at five atmospheres cannot be distinctly traced .
No definite reversal of the 0 line was observed under these circumstances .
The dispersion used , however , was only that of one prism .
By using a higher dispersion the reversal of both the C and F lines may be observed at lower pressures .
For this purpose we have used a Pliicker tube , filled with hydrogen and only exhausted until the spark would pass readily when a large jar was used .
# The pressures here mentioned are only measured by a metallic gauge attached to the Cailletet pump employed , and must therefore be only taken as approximately correct .
1883 .
] On the Reversal of Hydrogen Lines .
75 The light of the narrow part of the tube is , under these circumstances very brilliant , while the spark in the broad ends is wider and less bright , but does not fill the tube .
On viewing such a tube end .
on and projecting the image of the narrow part of the tube on to the slit of the spectroscope , a continuous spectrum , of the width of the image of the narrow part of the tube , is seen , besides the lines of hydrogen given by the discharge in the wide part of the tube .
These lines extend above and below the narrow continuous spectrum if the electrode is well placed so that half-an-inch or so of the spark in the wide part of the tube may intervene between the narrow part of the tube and the spectroscope .
The continuous spectrum of the narrow part of the tube seems due chiefly to the expansion of the hydrogen lines when the discharge occurs in so confined a space , and it is much brighter than the lines given by the spark in the wide part of the tube .
Where the latter cross the continuous spectrum a very evident absorption occurs .
We have observed it with a diffraction grating .
The C line in the third order falls so near the F line in the fourth , that both may be observed together .
The appearance presented in our spectroscope is shown in the accompanying drawing ; F is much more expanded than C , and the reversal consequently less marked though quite plaim The other lines being still more diffuse their absorption could not be traced .
F C We have before observed ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 30 , p. 157 ) that the C and F lines of hydrogen are visible in the arc of a De Meritens magneto-electric machine taken in hydrogen ; though in the arc of a Siemens machine the C line can only be detected at the instant of breaking the arc , the P line hardly at all .
W^hen , instead of taking the arc in hydrogen , small drops of water are allowed to fall from a fine pipette into the arc taken in air in a lime crucible , each drop as it falls into the arc produces an explosive outburst of the hydrogen lines .
Generally the outburst is only momentary , but occasionally a sort of flickering arc is maintained for a second or two and the hydrogen line C is visible all the time .
The lines ( C and P ) are usually much expanded , but are frequently very unequally wide in different parts of the line .
F is weaker , more diffuse , and more difficult to see than C , and is visible for a shorter time .
There is no sign of reversal .
In the explosive character of the outburst and the 76 On the Order of Reversibility of the Lithium Lines .
[ Mar. 8 , irregularity in the width of the lines , the effect resembles that of an outburst of hydrogen in the solar atmosphere .
The elements of the water are , as we must suppose , separated in the arc , but from the explosive character of the effect they are not uniformly distributed in the arc .
The arc being horizontal and the image of it projected on to the slit of the spectroscope , it was really a very small section of the arc which was under observation , and this renders the variation in the width of the lines the more remarkable .
Ill. " Note on the Order of Reversibility of the Lithium Lines .
" By G. D. Living , M.A. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
Received March 1 , 1883 .
In our communications on the reversal of the lines of metallic vapours , we have several times noticed ( " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 28 , pp. 357 , 369 , 473 ) the reversal of the lithium lines , and concluded that ; the blue line is more easily reversed than the orange line .
This , however , does not appear to be really the case .
When much lithium is introduced into the arc , a second blue line is developed close to but slightly more refrangible than the well-known blue line .
This second blue line produces with the other the appearance of a reversal , which deceived us until we became aware of the existence of the second line .
The blue line ( wave-length 4604 ) is really reversed without difficulty when sufficient lithium is present , but under these circumstances the orange line is also reversed .
The latter line is also the one which first ( of the two ) shows reversal , and also the one which is more persistently reversed .
Hence we place the lines in order of reversibility as follows : red , orange , blue , green , violet .

