A paper was also read , entitled , " Some Suggestions relative to the best method of employing the new Zenith Telescope lately erected at the Royal Observatory .
" By John Pond , Esq. , F.R.S. , Astronomer Royal .
During the observations made by the author , in the course of last summer , with the new zenith telescope lately erected at the Royal Observatory , for the purpose of measuring the zenith distance of y Draconis , it occurred to the author to avail himself of subsidiary observations on another star , of about the fifth magnitude , which has nearly the same zenith distance towards the south that y Draconis has towards the north , and which passes the meridian between 20 and 30 minutes , iu time , after it .
The angular distance between the two stars being determined in the usual manner , by observing them on the same night , and in the same position of the instrument , gives the sum of their zenith distances : and if on the next orsome following night y Draconis be observed , and after its passage the instrument be turned half round , and the other star observed , then the difference of the measure , as read on the micrometer , will be the difference of the zenith distances of the two stars .
These sums and differences , thus ascertained on different nights , will be independent of any change that may happen to the instrument in the interval .
This method affords the means of determining , with almost unlimited preci ?
sion , the value of the small equations which become the subject of investigation in the employment of the instrument .
Thus all changes of the position of the stars , occasioned by aberration , nutation , &amp; c , will produce double the effect on the small differential or subsidiary angles , as measured by this method .
For the investigations of these small equations it will not be necessary to have determined either the exact zenith distance of each star , or the exact difference of their zenith distances , or the absolute magnitude of this subsidiary angle ; its variation from time to time being the only important object of research .
The author is led to expect that this property may , at some future period , be applied with advantage in investigations made with moveable zenith instruments .

