" ObseTvations on the Anatomy of the Thyroid Body in Man .
" By GEo GE W. CALLENDERI , Lectu1rer on Anatonmy at St. Bartholoniiew 's Hospital .
Commnunicated by JAMES PAGET , Esq. Received June 8 , 1867* .
By examination of the thyroid body in the foetus , we learnl that it has from an early period , mzluch the same relations and appearances as belong , to it in childhood , and duLring the adult condition , and we observe those diversities of its parts which are exceptionally recognized during tble later periods of life .
We may thus trace out the origin of such exceptional conditions , and notice , more especially , how the isthmus of Eustachius and the pyramid of Lalouette are connected with the formationi of the thyroid , and depend for their after characters upon ear'ly changes during development of size .
As I have reason to believe that the formation of the thiyroid in mta may be fairly reexamined , I slhall ventuire to refer , in the first place , to some of the opinions advanced with regard to its earliest appearances .
The late Mr. Grayyt has alluded to the views of -luschke , Arlnold , Bischoff , and Goodsir , respecting the development of this body .
It is enough for my present purpose to state that Arniold considered the thyroid to be developed from the membranous air-tube , where the larynx is formed , whilst Goodsir thought that it originated in that portion of the meinbran-a intermedia of Reichert which remains in connexion with the anastomosing vessels between the first and secondl aortic arches , or carotid and subelavian arteries .
At first , he states , no isthmus is observed ( in sheep ) , but presently lateral masses join across and in front of the base of the heart and root of the neck .
Then the thyroid separates from the thymus , from which it differs in not being divided into lobules .
Simon* has no reason for believing that its origin has any particular relation to that of the thymus .
Undoubtedly , he adds , there is a period when it is impossible to say how much of the unshaped blastema of the neck belongs to one organi , how much to another , but so soon as the microscope can discover the first traces of their development , it likewise affords uniquestionable evidence of their distinctness , and shows each as separate in itself , and as peculiar in structure , as at any later period of growth .
Handfield Jonest found in a foutal sheep two inches long that the thyroid presented the usual appearance ; it possessed an isthmus , and in a human fwotus of four months and a half , the isthmus appeared of the same standing as the lateral masses .
The absence of an isthmus in an erntire class , that of birds , the observations of Gray on the formation of this body in the chick , and the suggestions of Meckel , Cruveilhier and others , countenance the supposition that the thyroid is developed from two lateral masses .
There are no reliable observations respecting the development of the pyramid , but Haller and Arnold have hazarded the opinion that it is probably the duct of the thyroid during foetal life .
In describing the following dissections , I may state that the specimens were examined as they came into my possession without selection , save for age , so that they may be assumed to represent very fairly the conditions commonly existing during fmetal life .
In a human foetus , measuring in length eight-tenths of an inch ( between the seventh and eighth week ) , the thyroid is a body of a pale yellowish colour , lying across the front of the trachea , just below the mass out of which the cartilages of the larynx are being developed .
It is closely connected with the trachea and with the lower edge of the larynx , either of which would be torn in endeavouring to remove it , but the thyroid is easily uncovered by stripping off the parts superficial to it , and has no connexion with these or with the thymus ( fig. 1)4 .
Although consisting at this period of but one piece , the thyroid is deeply notched , and thus looks as though made up of three distinct lobes , one sometimes bifid , in the centre , and this is the smallest , and another on either side elongated and inclined upwards by the side of the larynx .
Similar divisions are seen in a ftctus measuring two inches and eight-tenths in length ( fig. 2 ) ?
, the thyroid consisting of three lobes , one being central , a second on the right side , measuring one-tenth of an inch from end to end , and a third on the left side , measuring one-fourteenth of an inch .
Relations with the Thymnus .
That the coiinexions of the thyroid are from the first with the larynx and trachea , rather than with the thymus , is rendered more probable by the appearances observed in the young of animals .
In a foetal rabbit ( fig. 3)* , eight-tenths of an inch long , the thymus may be seen to consist of two lobulated masses , lying side by side just above the heart and its great vessels , broader at the base towards the thorax , diverging a little as they pass upwards , and ending in the root of the neck by a somewhat pointed extremity .
The trachea in the middle line is surmounted by the larynx , but at its upper extremity is a minute elevation , contrasting by its pale colour with adjacent parts ; and connected with this are two divergent ridges , of the same pale colour , which embrace , horseshoe fashion , the lower portion of the larynx , tapering as they ascend , and resembling , so far as the mere look is concerned , the division of the trachea at its lower extremity into the two bronchi .
In a fwetal pig ( fig. 4)t , one inch and two-tenths in length , the thyroid is notched below , thus acquiring , though somewhat indistinctly , a three-lobed appearance ; and here also , whilst firmly attached to the trachea , it is no way visibly in relation with the thymus .
One cannot but be attracted by this connexion with the trachea , on which tube the thyroid ( even if it be not developed from the membranous air .
tube ) buds and attains some little size , a formation reminding one of that of the lungs coming out from the front wall of the oesophagus , that is , from the trachea , and of the view of Mr. Simon , as afterwards expressed by the editors of Cuvier + respecting the thyroid , " C'est la fausse branchie , branchiole des poissolis .
" Indeed , from its relationi to the air-tube during the early period of life , or in fish to the vertebral or hyoidal extremity of the gill , from its curious alternation with the supplementary gill of Broussonet ?
, and from its structure ( K6lliker ) , it may be not inaptly referred to as a pseudo-lung rather than as an associate with the thymus and the so-called ductless glands .
I may add that , in the human feetus , no distinct evidence of the thyroid appears to me to exist before the sixth week , up to which time it cannot , I believe , be isolated from the structures in the front of the neck ; it seems to come out from the blastema in the form of a mass in front of the trachea , which quickly acquires an imperfectly lobed condition , but I have not been able to distinguish at any period , during development of size , three completely distinct parts .
The Isthmus .
In the dissections already referred to , the presence of a middle portion , and its equal development with the lateral lobes , leads to the inference that this central part is present from the earliest period , and that the thyroid isthmus is not formed by a growinog together of two distinct sidepieces .
Yet in the human foetus , at four moniths , Fleischmnann and Meckel say that tl-ey foundc , as they described them , two lateral lobes only ; and the hare , for example , has been written of as having but two distinct laterat masses , as also were the Cetacca until Professor Turner* explained that the thyroid of a well-grown male porpoise was a single mnss extending across the trachea , of which the median portion could hardly be described as an itntervening isthmus ; for in its supero-iniferior diameter it equalled that of the lateral portion .
In addition , however , to the dissections already detailed , I have examined the thyroid in fetal hares , and have always fouind the middle portion equally developed with the side lobes , and bo , Unded by notches , which seem to define it from them ( fi , .
5 ) .
With the growth of this famtus , as also in the youing of cats and of dogs , I have observed that the ceintral part appears to flatten and to lose the rounded lobular coniditioni , and sometimes it dicappears altogether .
The Lobes .
Whilst , however , three lobes are chiefly inidicated , lesser notches may be occasionally seen , and continue to be noticeable as the foetus grows , though they are very irregular and uncertain .
Thus in a human fmetus , ti'ee inches and nine-tenths long , the left lobe ( fig. 6)t is divided into two portions by a deep fissure , one-half of it aseending to the left of the middle line in front Of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages , and there ale other notches faintly outliningt , a middlle lobe .
In a fmetus four inches and three-tenths long , the middle lobe is bifid , a cleft dividing it above ; and in another fectus , four inches and six-tenths lonig , the enltire thyroid is very irregularly formed , broken inito seve-ral lobes , but still showing at its lower margin a division into three chief portions ( figs. 7 &amp; 8 ) .
Hlere also a process ascends , budding out from the left sidce , tapers almost to a point , and ends by being fixed to the under surface of the os hyoides .
Omitting lesser varieties , I will describe the following .
The thyroid froom a foetus eight inches and seven-tenths ; long ( fig. 10 ) ?
, consists of two chief lobes , which meet , but are not united , in the nniddle line , being separated by a deep fissure .
From the left lobe , just a'nterior to the lower angle of the thyroid cartilage , a small process projects upwards , and resembles the base of the process in either figure 6 or 7 , wanting the stalk-like continuation towards the os hyoides .
The right lobe is somewhat irregular along its upper border ; but just where it reaches the middle line there is a lozenge-shaped piece of gland , more closely connected with the right than with the left lobe , from which iatter it is separated by a distinct fissure , a faintly marked lirne extending above for a short distance between it and the right lobe .
This lozenge-shaped portion ascends , and is adherent to the lower notch in the middle line of the thyroid cartilage ; its extremities are pointed , and the lower one just falls short of the level of the inferior margin of the lateral masses .
In another foetus ( fig. 1)* , the left lobe , three-tenths and a half of an inch in length , is irregularly and slightly notched .
The right lobe , traced towards the middle line , shows scarce a sign of a middle portion ; but there is a small distinct mass adhering closely to it , and this narrowing rapidly , becomes over the thyroid a slender band , and can be traced upwards until it ends by adhering to the posterior inferior suLrface of the hyoid bone .
The evidence obtained from these dissections goes to show that the thyroid is connected , in man , from a very early period with the upper portion of the air-tube .
It does not consist , at all events after the seventh week , of distinct lateral masses , and the appearances it presents at that date are in favour of the middle portion being of equal standing with the rest .
It is marked out , more or less distinctly , into three principal parts or lobes , but these are united at the seventh week of foetal life and form , save exceptionally , one thyroid body .
The isthmus appears to consist of the smaller middle division uniting the other two , but there may be an absence of isthmus through failuire of this uniont , the middle portion joining the right or left lobe , and thus making one lateral portion larger than the other , a condition sometimes recognized in the adult ; or a small middle lobe , may remain distinct ( fig. 10 ) , and this , with the various irregularities observable in the lateral portions , may account for the partial and isolated outgrowths of this body in various forms of goitreT .
The pyramid of Lalouette may be seen in figs. 6 , 7 , 8 , 10 , and 11 , where it is drawn as springing from the middle , the right and the left of the thyroid .
It is very commonly met with in the foetus , and is clearly an outlying part of the body , of which the buds seen in figs. 7 and 10 are the simplest forms , and the cleft of the left lobe in fig. 6 , or the distinct process in fig. 8 , the larger development .
Just as the cornua of the thyroid body are fixed by fibrous tissue to the wings of the hyoid bone , so also , as would be expected , any one of these processes is equally fixed to one of the adjacent cartilages , or , if prolonged upwards , to the os hyoides , as in fig. 11 .
In the adult , the pyramid is less often met with than in the ftetusI found it in some form or other , in ten out of forty-two adult male subjects , in the foetus four times in eight .
Thus it is probable that these outgrowths from the foetal thyroid often shrink and disappear with advancing years .
123456789 10 11 Explawntion of Figures .
Fig. 1 .
Thyroid from human foetus ( eight-tenths of an inch long ) , about three timtes the natural size .
Fig. 2 .
Thyroid from human foetus ( two inches and eight-tenths long ) , niatural size .
Fig. 3 .
Thyroid from feetal rabbit ( eight-tenths of an inch long ) , about three times the natural size .
Fig. 4 .
Thyroid from faetal pig ( one inch and two-tenths long ) , aboult three tillmes the natural size .
Fig. 5 .
Thyroid from foetal hare ( six inches long ) , natural size .
Fig. 6 .
Thyroid body from huLman faetus ( three inches and nine-tenths long ) .
Fig. 7 .
The same ( four inches and three-tenths long ) .
Fig. 8 .
The same ( four inches and six-tenths long ) .
Fig. 9 .
The same ( six inches and four-tenths long ) .
Fig. 10 .
The samiie ( eight inches and seven-tenths long ) .
Fig 11 .
The same ( twelve inches long ) .
Figs. 6-11 are drawn , by measurement , the exact natural size .

