[ 443 ] XV .
On the Homologies and Succession of the Teeth in , with an Attempt to trace the History of the Evolution of Mammalian Teeth general .
By Oldfield Thomas , British Museum { Natural History ) .
Communicated by Dr. Gunther , F.R.S. Received April 4 , \#151 ; Read April 28 , 1887 .
[ Plates 27 , 28 .
] In the year 1867 a paper* was contributed to the Royal Society by Professor Flower , " On the Development and Succession of the Teeth in the Marsupialia , " a paper which became at once the standard authority on the subject , and in which it was shown conclusively that among the Marsupialia only one single tooth ever had a deciduous or " milk " predecessor , and that this tooth was one homologous throughout the order , and corresponding to the last premolar of the ordinary Placental Mammals .
This paper was followed by another , !
in which fresh observations were recorded on the presence or absence of a tooth-change in the Marsupials and other Mammals , and notes made on the methods of tooth-notation in use\#151 ; a subject which naturally arises out of all investigations into the homologies of teeth .
Finally , in the article " Mammalia " in the new edition of the ' Encyclopedia Britannica/ J the same author has given a summary of our present knowledge on the subject , to which I am indebted for much information and assistance .
In the course of preparing a systematic catalogue of the Marsupials in the Natural History Museum , my progress was soon arrested by the necessity of understanding and applying the very complicated homologies of the teeth , many points on which being by no means finally settled by Professor Flower , and the other publications on the subject being of a very vague and conflicting nature .
The group wherein the greatest difficulty occurred was the Dasyuridse , of which only one genus , appears to have had its dental change properly described , and among whose members I have noticed several points that I believe to be worthy of publication , and from * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1867 , p. 631 .
t " Remarks on the Homologies and Notation of the Teeth of the Mammalia , " ' Journ. Anat .
Physiol. , ' vol. 3 , 1869 , p. 262 .
% Ninth edition , vol. 15 , 1883 , p. 349 .
18.10.87 the study of which I have been led on to form a theory on the evolution and succession of the teeth applicable to the Mammalia in general .
This theory attempts to bridge over the existing gap between the Metatheria and Eutheria , and to show how the teeth of the one may have passed into those of the other .
Before commencing , I must express my sincere thanks to Mr. B. Lydekker , to whose extensive knowledge of Mammalian Palaeontology and its literature I am largely indebted , and with whom every point in the present paper has been fully discussed\#151 ; a sifting process which has , I hope , eliminated some of the unsound conclusions to which I might have otherwise come .
Throughout the course of my work he has taken considerable trouble in obtaining information on various points , and this he has at all times freely communicated to me .
I feel , therefore , that he should be credited with a very large share in the results , whatever their value may be , that are put forward in the present paper .
I must also record the obligations I am under to Professor Flower himself , whom I have consulted on several points , and who has freely given me the benefit of his large knowledge on the subject .
To confine our attention , first , to the Dasyuridse .
In this family we find the greatest amount of variation in the extent to which the change of teeth takes place , some species having a well-developed successional tooth preceded by an equally well-developed milk-molar , while , on the other hand , others have no successional tooth at all , either in the milk or permanent stage .
In this family also occurs Myrmecobius , remarkable for being the only known heterodont Mammal normally possessing more than four true molars .
This family has also another and more vital interest for the evolutionist , arising from the presumption that it was in all probability the family in which the change from Metatherian to Eutherian occurred .
This presumption is based partly on the very generalised character of the family as a whole compared to the other and more specialised groups of Marsupials , but chiefly on the strikingly exact resemblance existing between the structure of the teeth of many of its members and that found both in certain of the " Creodonta " or Carnivora Primigenia , among which it is generally supposed that the direct ancestors of the modern Carnivora should be sought for , * and also in many of the more generalised Insectivora , whose claims to the parentage of other Placentals have been advocated by Professors Huxley , !
Parker , | and others .
The family Dasyuridse consists of the following genera , the respective numbers of their premolars and molars being placed after each :\#151 ; * See R. Lydekker , ' Catalogue of the Fossil Mammalia in the British Museum , ' Part 5 , 1887 , pp. 26 ( footnote ) and 307 .
t 'Zool .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1880 , p. 657 and elsewhere .
J 'Phil .
Titans .
, ' 1885 , p. 268 .
'Mammalian Descent , ' 1885 , p. 125 et seq. SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURHDE .
Premolars .
Molars .
Thylacinus 3 4 Sarcophilus 2 4 Dasyurus 2 4 Phascologale 3 ( rarely 2 below ) 4 Smintliopsis* 3 4 Antechinomvs 3 4 Myrmecobius 3 5 or 6 Nothing of importance seems to have been published as to the tooth-change in any of these genera , with the exception of Thylacinus , worked out by Professor Flower .
This animal has its successional tooth , or " pm4 , " t preceded by a distinct milk-molar , which is , however , never functional , and falls out exceedingly early .
In Dasyurus and Sarcophilus neither of the two premolars has a milk predecessor , and , owing to this , their homologies have not been finally determined , although Professor Flower has acutely suggested , J judging only from Krefft 's description S of his " Chcetocercus cristicauda , " that it is the last , and usually changing , premolar which has disappeared , a suggestion which I am now in a position to prove entirely true .
On Sminthopsis and Antecliinomys I propose to make no remarks , as their dentition is palpably the same as that of the common members of the genus Phascologale , on which my chief observations have been made , and from which I shall afterwards return to j Dasyurus and the other members of the family .
In Phascologale the shape and size of the two anterior permanent premolars are always very constant , but the third arid last , or pm4 , presents us with a remarkable series of gradations in size , gradations which prove that it is undoubtedly this tooth that has altogether disappeared in Dasyurus and Sarcophilus .
These gradations do not need detailed description here , especially as the figures ( Plate 27 , figs. 1-5 ) show them far more intelligibly than any description could do .
It is sufficient to say that in certain species , such as Phascologale virginice and ( figs. 1 and 2 ) , the tooth is larger and longer than pm3 , and that from this size a perfect set of gradations exists , down to the minute and practically functionless tooth found in Ph. apicalis ( fig. 4 ) , while in two species even , Ph. cristicaudata and the tooth is often altogether absent in the lower jaw .
* * * S * = Podabrus , Gould , auctorum .
f This tooth , being the homologue of the fourth premolar of other Mammals , should evidently be called by the same name , viz. , pm4 , whatever the actual number of premolars , and therefore its serial position , may be .
X ' Journ. Anat .
Physiol. , ' vol , 3 , p. 277 .
S ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' I860 , p. 435 .
As to the milk dentition , those species that have a large permanent pm4 have a distinct tricuspid milk-tooth preceding it ( Plate 27 , fig. 6 ) , and persisting until a comparatively late period of life.# On the other hand , when the permanent pm4 shows a tendency to disappear , the milk-tooth would seem to he first gradually aborted ; thus in Ph. dories , where the permanent tooth is of a medium size , the milk-tooth is quite minute and functionless , while in the still smaller-toothed Ph. apicahs , and also in Ph. wallacei , I have been unable to find any trace of a milk-tooth in the only young specimens available\#151 ; the permanent tooth , however , as in the other species , still rising into its place considerably later than any of its neighbours .
The actual calcification of this tooth seems also to take place much later in Phascologale than in any other of the tooth-changing Marsupials , so that the tooth is often not to be found beneath the bone until a very short time before its eruption .
From these observations it is clear that the normal state of a member of the present group is to have three well-developed premolars , the last one of which has a milk predecessor .
Then a tooth-reduction has taken place , all of which has fallen on what is evidently a peculiarly plastic tooth , viz. , pm4 , and this , with the milk-tooth preceding it , has been decreased in various degrees , and in the end altogether suppressed , as in the allied genera Dasyurus ( Plate 27 , fig. 5 ) and Having thus found out which of the three premolars present in Phascologale has disappeared in Dasyurus and Sarcophilus , we have , before we can settle the proper homologies of even these three , to discover which of the full number of four premolars , still possessed by the Eutheria , has disappeared in Phascologale and other Marsupials , for it has always been the natural presumption that four , and not only three , was the original typical number of premolars as much among the Marsupial as among the Placental Mammals.t Since no ' species now living , however , shows this number , that presumption has hitherto remained unproved , and still less has it been proved which one of the full set of four has disappeared to leave the common number of three , most authors jumping to the conclusion that , as in so many Carnivora , it is pm1 that has been suppressed .
Now , however , I am at last able to prove the first , and make out the second point to my own satisfaction , and to that of both Professor Flower and Mr. Lydekker .
When looking at a somewhat abnormal skull of Dasyurus I was struck by seeing a minute projection attached to the gum , between the tivo premolars , and , being on the look-out for such a thing , I immediately suspected that it might be the * * The specimen of Ph.joenicillata with milk dentition , from which the figure is drawn , has its third molar up and in place , and has a basal length of nearly 40 mm. as compared to about 45 mm. in fully adult specimens .
f Although some even of the highest authorities look upon three as the typical or parent number of premolars in the Marsupials ; see , for example , Tombs ' 'Dental Anatomy ' ( 2nd ed. ) , 1882 , p. 420 , where , apart from this point , a most excellent account is given of the structure and development of Marsupial teeth .
SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASAURID2E .
missing premolar , present through atavism .
I then turned to Phascologale , in which , as pm4 is still retained , there seemed more hope of tracing the other missing premolar ; but here , in all the commoner species , the teeth fit so closely against one another that a functionless atavistic tooth would have no chance of developing .
In certain of the rarer Papuan species , however , the teeth , owing to the length of the muzzle , are more separated from one another , and , on examining all the available examples of these , I was rewarded by finding on one side of the upper jaw , in a specimen of Pin .
dorsalis belonging to the Genoa Museum , * a large and distinct tooth ( Plate 27 , fig. 7 ) protruding from the gum between the teeth corresponding to the two anterior premolars in an ordinary Phascologale , t and in exactly the same position , therefore , as the minute rudiments previously found in Dasyurus .
The tooth itself is two-rooted , precisely similar in shape to the other premolars , and is of about half the size of the first premolar in the same species .
This , then , was clearly the missing premolar , and that here was its most natural place is shown by the extreme frequency with which a marked and prominent gap exists at this point in adult Marsupials , as , for example , in Didelphys , Perameles , and others .
That the original typical number of premolars in the Mammalia was four is also strikingly exemplified by several of the earlier fossil Marsupials\#151 ; as , for example , by Triconodon , which has the full cheek-teeth formula of four premolars and four molars ; by Ctenacodon , Plagiaulaxminor , and others ; thus proving beyond question that the pm3 discovered in the recent Phascologale is really an atavism and not a mere meaningless abnormality .
It results from this discovery as to the position of the missing premolar that in all the numerous Polyprotodontj Marsupials with three premolars these are homologous with the first , third , and fourth of the normal Mammalian dentition , and not with the second , third , and fourth , as has ordinarily been presumed to be the case .
For the abnormal specimen of Phascologale dorsalis we therefore obtain ( on one side only ) the following premolar formula :\#151 ; P.M. q ' ' 4 5 ^rom which the suppression of the upper pur gives us P.M. ^ t , he formula in Phascologale , * For the loan of which , and of a large series of other Papuan specimens , I have to thank my friend , the Marquis G. Doria , Director of that Museum .
I Compare the teeth of the other side in the same specimen ( Plate 27 , fig. 8 , reversed ) for the correspondence between the different premolars .
J As to the Diprotodonta with three premolars , although , on the one hand , in the Mesozoic Plagi-aulacidae it was clearly pm1 that was first lost , yet , on the other , the positions of the premolars in certain of the modern Pbalangistidae are such as to raise a suspicion that they also , like the Polyprotodonts , have lost pm3 rather than pm1 ; but in any case the loss has been independent of that in the Polyprotodonts , both groups having had four premolars some time after their separation from one another .
S I have found this method of writing dental formulae far superior to the ordinary one , as by it , not only the number , but the homologies of the teeth are clearly shown .
Each tooth has its serial number , which is written in if the tooth is present , but is replaced by a cipher if not .
Perameles , and Didelphys , and from which again we obtain , by the disappearance of pm4 , that of Dasyurus and Sarcophilus , namely P.M. ' Turning then to Myrmecobius , with its eight or nine cheek-teeth , of which only three are commonly reckoned as premolars , I examined several young specimens in order to see if this animal , like the abnormal Phascologale , had not really four premolars , as no exact observations on it had been published , and the usual determination rested merely on the shape of the teeth .
In fact , even if no tooth-change could be found , it seemed possible enough that the small tooth commonly reckoned as the first molar should be really a persistent milk pm4 , the permanent tooth corresponding to it having become aborted.4 ' This theory , however , I have been able to disprove by the examination of such a jaw as is shown in Plate 27 , fig. 9 .
Here we find that , of the whole set of cheek-teeth ( premolars and molars ) , the first , second , fourth , and fifth are fully up , and all much on a level with one another , while , on the other hand , the third has scarcely penetrated the gum , and stands therefore far below the level of the rest .
Hence we see that this third tooth , by its very lowness of position , or rather lateness of development , is certainly the true pm4 , even without there being any milk-tooth above it ; for , had it been pm3 , it would have been at all stages , as with other animals , fully on a level with the teeth next in front of and behind it .
Of a milk-tooth preceding this pm4 I can find no trace whatever , although it is possible that , considering the very rudimentary degree of development in which the milk-tooth occurs in the Thylacine and Koala , t it may yet be discovered in specimens younger than have yet been examined .
10.3.4 The correct formula of the cheek-teeth of Myrmecobius is thus P.M. ^ M. ^ 1 " ' L-~-g ; and therefore , so far as regards the premolars , identical with that of Phascologale and Thylacinus .
As regards the incisors , two specimens of Myrmecobius in the Natural History Museum present the interesting anomaly of possessing four instead of only three lower incisors , the extra tooth being in each case clearly i4\#151 ; a fact which proves what has generally been presumed to be the case , viz. , that it is the fourth incisor that has disappeared in ordinary three-incisored Mammals .
This completes the list of the living Dasyuridse to be referred to , but one fossil Marsupial , perhaps referable to the same family , and , although nearly the oldest-known Mammal , strongly resembling the modern Phascologale , has a dentition of so interesting a character as to call for special notice .
This is the described by Sir R. OwenJ from a single lower jaw found in the Mesozoic Purbeck * * A process which , as noted below , p. 451 , has taken place in certain Placentals .
t Thomas , ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1887 , p. 338 .
| ' Mammalia of the Mesozoic Formations ' ( Palaeontographical Society ) , 1870 ( pub .
1871 ) , p. 72 , PI .
IV .
, figs. 7 and 8 .
Mr. Lydekkee ( ' Catalogue Fossil Mammalia Brit. Mus. , ' vol. 5 , p. 258 ) considers this fossil as not generically , or even specifically , separable from Tr Owen , described at the same time .
SUCCESSION O THE TEETH IN THE DASYURUUE .
beds of Swanage , Dorsetshire.-* An examination of this solitary lower jaw shows wThat is , considering the immense antiquity of the species , rather a startling fact , namely , that it had an absolutely identical tooth-change to that found in modern Marsupials .
This fact is shown most clearly by the typical specimen , which happens fortunately to be in precisely the right condition to show it , namely , with the milk-premolar still in its place in the jaw , while the permanent pm4 ' is clearly visible buried in the bone beneath ( see Plate 27 , fig. 10 ) .
The milk-premolar is not small and nearly functionless , as it is in Phascologcde , but is nearly as large as , and is very similar in shape to , the first molar standing just behind it .
This ancient and remarkable fossil gives us , therefore , the one stage earlier than the abnormal Phascologale above described , having , on the presumption that its upper jaw resembled its lower , - , all the teeth equally well developed , and the fourth one with a large and functional milk predecessor . !
We may now consider this history of the evolution of the premolars of the Dasyuridse as fairly proved , and may represent it diagrammatically as follows :\#151 ; the full premolar formula of P.M. * * _L .
A .
tj Eig .
1 .
P- M---*------------N| Process .
Examples .
1 2 3 4 I. V V V V .
IP .
Complete set Triacanthodon .
II .
V V V V # lllf .
Reduction in size of pm2 . .
Abnormal Phascologale .
III .
V o V V .
IP .
Loss of pm2 Ordinary Phascologale .
IV .
V o V V ' .
Reduction in size of pm4 . .
Phascologale \amp ; c. V. V o V o . .
Loss of pm4 .
Pasyurus and Sarcophilus .
In this diagram the permanent teeth are represented under their respective serial numbers by a V if present , and by an O if absent , while the milk-tooth is similarly shown by a shaded U if present , but is altogether unrepresented if absent .
We will now pass from these details of individual species to the larger question as to the steps by which the primitive ancestral set of Mammalian teeth has become * * This specimen is also referred to by Professor Flower in an address to the Odontological Society ( ' Odontol .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 3 , 1871 , p. 220 ) , and he there , on the then unverified assumption that it possessed a changing pm4 , made certain remarks on the probable direction of the evolution of a Dipliyodont dentition\#151 ; remarks which all the evidence at my disposal most fully bears out .
f As Professor Flower has pointed out in his paper just quoted , the type-specimen of Triconodon occisor , Owen ( figured op .
cit. , PI .
IV .
, fig. 2 ) , found in the same beds , also shows traces of having had a changing pm4 , the latter tooth being very markedly retarded in development , as if a milk predecessor had only just been lost from above it .
There seems , in fact , to be every reason to suppose that all the Purbeck Polyprotodonts had a similar tooth-change , judging from such indications as may be gathered from the relative positions of the teeth .
modified into the very various forms of modern dentition , and especially as to the passage from the Marsupial to the Placental style of dentition .
The first and most fundamental question that arises is this :\#151 ; Is the rudimentary tooth-change now found in the Marsupials the last remnant of a complete change present both in their ancestors and in those of the Placentalia , or does it represent an early stage in the first formation of such a complete change , the Marsupials being still in a backward condition , out of which the Eutheria have long ago passed ?
To my mind it is perfectly clear that it is the second and not the first question that should be answered in the affirmative ; although , so far as I can find , all the Continental and many of the English naturalists think the opposite\#151 ; a view , however , that , although easy and obvious at first sight , I cannot for one moment believe to be correct .
When we consider that in every character of their organisation the Marsupials are infinitely behind and at a lower stage of evolution than the Placental Mammals , it would appear to be a total subversion of all the ordinary rules to suppose that in this one character of their dentition they should have passed on in advance of all the other Mammals , and , having gone through the condition in which the latter now are , should have again nearly evolved away that process of tooth-change which is to its Placental possessors so evidently advantageous .
It would be to my mind inconceivable that this should be the case , considering how universal among the Eutheria a more or less complete tooth-change is , and how useful it has proved to be to them , as evidenced by the very fact of their so wholly supplanting the more lowly organised Marsupials\#151 ; more lowly organised in their dental as well as in their other characters , and not further advanced , as would have to be presumed were their teeth looked upon as a later development of a fully Diphyodont set .
And again , the mere fact that five out of the six families of Marsupials , natives both of Australia and America , have , with the comparatively unimportant exceptions already noted as occurring among the Dasyuridse , arrived at precisely the same stage of tooth-change is itself a very strong argument in favour of the view now advocated ; for , were the modern tooth-change a remnant of a fuller one , we should naturally expect that , under the very various conditions of the struggle for existence , equally various degrees of reduction would have been attained to .
On the other hand , we should be most unlikely to find , as is now the case , more than 90 per cent , of the existing and fossil Marsupials changing one single tooth , and one only , and the small remainder merely differing from them in a direction away from and not towards that fuller tooth-change of which it is said their ancestors were once possessed .
Of the one form of evidence needed to give any weight to the opposite theory , namely , that derived from Palaeontology , there seems not to be one atom , no fossil Marsupials having ever been found showing traces of a larger amount of tooth-change than the recent ones , nor do I think such a discovery likely to be made , as , to the best of my belief , no such animal has ever existed .
This view is very much strengthened by the fact that , as already noted , one of the oldest Mammals known , SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURIDiE .
the Mesozoic Triacanthodon , had precisely the same , and no more , tooth-change than the modern Marsupials .
For these various reasons , therefore , we may , I think , take it for granted that the ancestors of the Marsupials never had at any time a more complete change of dentition than they have now , and that they arrived at their present state at an immensely early period , since which time they have as a whole practically stood still , except that a few isolated forms have , comparatively recently , lost again even the small amount of change they once possessed .
The second question , and one equally vital , is as to whether the milk set of teeth is the original primary set with the permanent one superadded to it , as believed by many naturalists , and especially by embryologists , or versed : a question with which Professor Flower has dealt in the first of his papers above referred to.# His conclusion was that the permanent dentition was the original one , and that the milk set had been afterwards developed as an addition to it\#151 ; a view to which , although inclined at first to disagree , I have now become a firm adherent .
To this opinion I have come by finding the impossibility of working out the general homologies of the teeth on the basis of the opposite view , and by the comparison of an infinitely larger number of specimens of various sorts than even Professor Flower had access to .
The chief cause of the prevalence of the opinion that the permanent dentition is a later development than the milk is the deceptive appearance presented in the early stages of tooth-development , when the germ of the permanent tooth is first seen as a bud growing out from that of the milk-tooth , whence it has naturally been supposed that the latter was the primary and the former the secondary development .
Even should this appearance of budding off* , however , be entirely correct\#151 ; and the fact itself is strongly denied by B. BAUMEt\#151 ; it may be argued that , considering the uniform direction of the evidence drawn from later stages , there is no sufficient reason to deny the possibility of a secondary organ , whose very raison d'etre , as in the case of the milk-tooth , is its speedy and precocious development , so overshadowing in size and rapidity of growth what is really the primary as to make the latter appear as its bud , and therefore , although falsely , as a secondary and subsidiary growth .
A second , apparently adverse , argument may be drawn from the few instances known of milk-teeth | developed , and remaining through life , without having , or only rarely having , true permanent successors , as in the anterior premolars of the Proboscidea S and some of the Perissodactyla , | ] but these are clearly due to the teeth * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1867 , p. 639 .
t ' Odontologische Forschungen : Versuch einer Entwickelnngsgeschichte des Gebisses , ' 1882 , p. 75 .
| I.e. , the homolognes of the corresponding milk- , and not permanent , teeth in the allied species .
S R. Lydekker , ' Cat. Foss .
Mamm .
Brit. Mus. , ' Part 4 , 1886 .
( , p. vii .
) || R. Lydekker , ' Bengal , Asiat .
Soc. Journ. , ' vol. 49 , 1880 , p. 135 .
This interpretation by Mr. Lydekker of the homologies of the non-changing pm1 in the Rhinoceroses has been called in question , but his evidence , drawn from an abnormal Rhinoceros skull in the Calcutta Museum , seems to me to be fully sufficient to support the conclusions he came to\#151 ; conclusions with which all the specimens that I have seen quite agree .
having passed through a complete cycle of evolution , the permanent " tooth first developing , then having a milk-tooth superadded to it , and finally aborting itself and leaving its milk representative still persistent , These two questions answered , we come to the consideration of the phenomena observable during the growth of a milk-tooth above its permanent successor ; not the early and embryological ones , into which I do not propose to enter , but such as may be studied on the rich material of skulls of different ages available to me in the collection of the Natural History Museum .
Taking now the skull of a tooth-changing Marsupial in which the first teeth are just appearing , we see that the single milk-premolar* comes up at about the same time as the true permanent premolars anterior to it ; that the first molar quickly succeeds and the other molars follow , but that almost invariably , whether there is a change or not , the true pm4 is considerably later in its development than the other teeth , and , especially , than either pm3 or m1 .
In the original production , therefore , of a milk-tooth above one of the other teeth , say pm3 , whose summit is , to commence with , fully equal in height at all stages of development to the summit of the milk-tooth of pm4 standing j ust behind it , we see that a change of position is necessary in this pm3 before a milk-tooth can be developed over it , a change which can apparently only be brought about by the retardation of its growth , and its approximation thereby to the state in which pm4 now is .
Should this supposition be true , we should expect to find that , anterior to the first appearance of a milk-tooth in any group , specimens would be found showing a preliminary retardation of the individual teeth over which , in a later generation , milk-teeth were to be developed .
The difficulties in the way of understanding how the ordinary processes of evolution can have first brought about such a preliminary retardation are , of course , considerable , unless it be that the retardation is itself a favourable character , by its preventing the undue crowding of the young animal 's mouth , while , at the same time , the full number of teeth are developed for use by the adult .
In this case it would be comparatively easy to understand the assumption of a milk dentition by the two steps , each favourable in itself\#151 ; ( 1 ) of a retardation for packing purposes of the permanent tooth in some large-toothed form , followed , in a later generation , by ( 2 ) the temporary development of a deciduous tooth in one of its descendants with the teeth so small that the gap in the tooth-row during youth , inherited from large-toothed ancestors , had become a defect to be remedied in this most effective manner .
Turning now to the actual facts , we find that there is among the Marsupials a * It seems better to use this term rather than " milk-molar , " as the milk-teeth have nothing to do with the true molars , and that name is , therefore , productive of constant confusion .
And , again , the use of the word " deciduous " instead of " milk " seems to he inadvisable , as both the molars and premolars of the second set are often themselves deciduous , while occasionally those of the first or milk set remain throughout life .
SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURIDiE .
hitherto unnoticed , but most striking and peculiar , retardation in the development of the first upper incisors in all the three Polyprotodont families , these families being the very ones in which , as the incisors are not so specialised in another direction as are those of the Diprotodonts , we should most expect to find traces of the development of milk incisors .
In half-grown specimens , such as those of Sarcophilus ursinus and Phascologale wallacei ( figured Plate 27 , figs. 11 and 12 ) , at a time when the three outer incisors are fully up and in use , the first pair , the largest in the adult ( lyh .
, fig. 13 ) , are still quite minute , with their points only just projecting above the bone , and altogether in a very marked condition of retardation .
And the same appears to be the case in young specimens of Didelphyidse , Peramelidse , and other Dasyuridae , in many of which the first incisors in the fully adult animal are by far the largest of all .
The theory now suggested , therefore , about these Marsupials with retarded first incisors , is that they represent at the present day the stage at about which the common ancestors of the Metatheria and Eutheria diverged from each other\#151 ; a stage when the teeth were , as it were , preparing themselves for the assumption of milk predecessors , a process which has in the latter group been continued onwards until the complete Diphyodont condition has been attained .
On the other hand , in the former the process has , except in the case of pm4 , never gone beyond the initial stage of the retardation of i1 , a stage which has itself been continued owing to its own inherent value .
For this view as to the first incisors it may also be urged that the most likely of all the teeth to undergo a marked alteration of any sort would be those at the extreme ends of the series , judging by the manner in which , throughout the Mammalia , the first incisor and the last molar show themselves plastic in readily taking on characters not , or only much later , found in the neighbouring teeth .
Before leaving this subject , I would wish to point out that it is by no means essential to the general views here advocated that this suggestion as to the first incisors should be correct , but only that , as some tooth or other must have been the first to follow the example of pm4 in developing a milk predecessor , the first incisor , even apart from its retardation , is at least as likely as any other to have been that tooth , while on this theory we also gain a possible explanation of the same very curious retardation .
Should , however , future palaeontological research show that any other tooth , say the canine or pm3 , took on a milk predecessor before i1 , it would only disprove the present suggestion without in any way invalidating the general conclusions come to .
In order now to put into order the various suggestions above made , and to utilise them for the purpose of making out the past history of tooth evolution , we will commence by drawing up diagrams on the same principle as in fig. 1 , but the whole set of teeth , instead of only the premolars , is taken into account ( fig. 2).* Here IV .
* In these diagrams and their explanations the teeth of the upper jaw only are referred to , as it is there alone that , owing to the presence of the premaxillo-maxillary suture , the true relations of the represents a generalised Marsupial dentition with five incisors/ ' four molars , and four premolars , of which the last is retarded , and has a milk-tooth superadded to it .
The next advance on this in the Placental direction would be V. , obtained by the retardation of i1 and the suppression of i5 , a stage exactly represented in the abnormal Fig. 2 .
I ncieors .
Canine .
Premolars .
Molars .
-A r 1 2 3 4 5 1 'l 2 3 " 1 4 '1 2 3 4 V IV .
V V V V V V V V V V w I I L_l L_l I I O V. V V V V o V V V V V w LJ I I L J LJ o VT VVVVo \/ VVV"Y " I\#151 ; I 1\#151 ; I 1\#151 ; I I\#151 ; 1 O V 1 .
HIP V VII .
V V V mnEu up o o V V v v v I____________I I____________________1 I____________________I o VIII .
V V V Jj|pr Hf tfflf V V w w V IP o IX .
V V V " o o w V V V 'IP IP in ' o o cologale above described .
Then , if the above theory is correct , should follow , first , VI .
, t where the retarded i1 has developed a milk predecessor , and i2 and pm3 are retarded ; secondly , VII .
, + in which the development of milk-teeth has extended from in front backwards and from behind forwards , and i4 has dropped out ; and , thirdly , VIII .
, which would be just such a generalised Placental dentition as is now possessed teetL can be made out with certainty .
Bnt whatever changes the upper teeth have passed through must of necessity have also been undergone , pari passu , by the lower .
* As in Didelphys and some Perameles .
t Some of the ramifications of these intermediate stages may be represented by certain of the Eocene Creodonta of North America , as , for example , by Triisodon Cope , ' American Naturalist , ' vol. 15 , 1881 , p. 667 ( figured op .
cit. , vol. 18 , 1884 , p. 257 ) , which is said to have changed its two posterior premolars only , but the published descriptions of this interesting fossil and its allies are so incomplete and confusing that it is difficult to obtain any exact idea of their dental characters .
It must also be noted that , although Professor Cope looks upon and argues from Triisodon as an animal only changing its pm3 and pm4 , there appears to be no evidence that it did not also change its pm3 , canine and incisors , like Hycenodon and the Carnivora of the present day .
SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURID^E .
by Otocyon , # viz. , three incisors and one canine , all changing ; four premolars , of which the last three change ; and four molars .
Finally , IX .
is the still further development shown in the Tapir , Hyrax , and one or two other forms , in which pm1 also changes , and , as in the vast majority of Placental Mammals , m4 is lost .
If , now , we attempt in the same manner to trace the history of the tooth-changes upwards to the earlier forms from the Marsupial dentition , instead of downwards to the later ones , we obtain a diagram as follows :\#151 ; Here IV .
is , as before , the generalised Marsupial dentition , as already described .
III .
would then be the stage preceding it , where one or more additional posterior molars are still habitually retained , and where the milk predecessor to pm4 has not yet been developed , although that tooth is in the preliminary stage of retardation .
In II .
we get back to a condition in which the teeth are about equal to one another in Fig. 3 .
Premaxillary teeth .
Maxillary teeth .
--------A -------\gt ; \gt ; 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 V V V V V V V \amp ; C. A M _____ A N \lt ; \ 3 4 I 2 3 4 5 V V u u u u u V v uuuuu v * ^ L-J L-i ^ ' their rate of development , none being retarded , and only show a commencement or first sketching out of the division into canines , !
premolars , and molars by a lengthening of the anterior and a broadening of several of the posterior maxillary teeth .
Finally , in I. the teeth would have been of a purely homodont character , only divisible into five premaxillary and a variable number of maxillary teeth .
Of these maxillary teeth , it would seem to have been generally the fifth ( = pm4 ) which first developed a milk predecessor , and thereby became , with the three non-caniniform teeth in front of it , a " premolar .
" Where the maxillary teeth exceeded nine , the increase * Whether this animal has returned to , or retained , its ancestral number of molars is still doubtful , but it presents , in any case , an interesting example of a stage of dentition through which the line of Placental Mammals must have passed .
( ( 7/ .
Huxley , ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1880 , p. 256 et .
) f Although , as urged by Moseley and Lankester ( ' Journ. Anat .
Physiol. , ' vol. 3 , 1869 , p. 73 ) , the canine is not essentially a distinct tooth from the premolars , yet it was evidently very early specialised , as is shown by such forms as the Mesozoic Stylodonpusillus , Owen .
1 2 3 4 5 I. V V V V V 1 2 3 V V V 12 3 4 5 II .
V V V V V p _A I I 2 V V V III .
V V V V V V V V IV .
v V v V v V V V appears to have been wholly in the number of the true molars , and not of the pre molars , as is particularly well illustrated by the early representatives of the manytoothed Odontocete Cetacea , * and also by the great majority of the Mesozoic Mammalia , many of which , t while still having only four premolars , have from five to eight true molars .
In fact , the earliest forms seem to have normally had a considerable number of molars , but these were soon reduced down to four in the Metatheria , and later to three or less in the Eutheria , leaving a few isolated forms , J with larger numbers as remnants , retaining what the common ancestors of all had once possessed .
Two only of the many described genera of these ancient forms have been said to have more than four premolars , namely , Amphitherium and each described as having six premolars and six molars S ; but , as even this determination is disputed , !
and in any case rests entirely on the form of the teeth , and not on a knowledge t of their manner of changing , it can hardly be said to prove incorrect the practically universal rule that the typical number of premolars is , and has always been , at least since middle Mesozoic times , four , and four only.^f Whether the teeth in the first stage of all were rooted or rootless is very doubtful , but the probability seems to be on the whole that they were simple conical teeth , rootless for part , if not the whole , of the animal 's life , and possibly not unlike those now possessed by some of the Dasypodidae.** This first stage in the Mammalian dental series would probably very fairly represent , so far as can be judged , the dentition of the Prototheria , the toothed and generalised ancestors of the living , and now highly specialised , Monotremata , which there is every presumption for believing , as Professor Flower has pointed out , tt were for some time both Homodont and Monophyodont .
If we now combine these diagrams and tabulate the various processes and examples already described , we obtain ( Plate 28 , I. to IX .
) a complete diagram of the tooth * E.g. , Squalodon , which has the following formula :\#151 ; I. J- C. \#163 ; P.M. \#163 ; M. -f X 2 = 60 .
Flower , ' Encycl .
Brit. ' 9th edit .
, Article " Mammalia .
" f E.g. , Achyrodon manus , Stylodon pusillus , \amp ; c. See Owen , ' Mesozoic Mammalia ' ( Palseontogr .
Society , 1870 ) , 1871 .
Plate 2 , figs. 6 , 14 , and 17 .
J E.g. , Myrmecobius , Bettongia , which has not infrequently five true molars , and the many-toothed Edentates .
S Owen , loc. cit. , Plate 1 , figs. 21-23 .
|| Lydekker , ' Cat. Foss .
Mamm .
Brit. Mus. , ' Part 5 , 1887 , p. 271 , footnote .
A single instance is , however , known to me of a true Heterodont and Diphyodont Mammal with five premolars , namely , Iiliinogale melleri , Gray , a member of the Herpestine section of the Viverridse .
Of this remarkable species , however , only one skull is as yet known ( figured ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1864 , p. 574 ) , so that no positive deductions can be drawn from it .
It may be either that the supernumerary premolar is a mere accidental duplication of one of the other premolars , or that one of the milk-premolars has been retained in position , but these points can only be settled by the examination of further specimens of the species .
** See Baume , op .
cit. , p. 152 , \amp ; c. ft ' Odontol .
Soc. Trans. , ' vol. 3 , 1871 , p. 221 .
SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURIDJE .
changes that have taken place from the earliest Prototherian form ( I. ) down to such a fully developed Diphyodont dentition as is now possessed by ( IX , ) , from which again , or more directly from VIII .
, there have arisen , by the different processes of tooth variation , all the numerous forms of modern Eutherian dentition as exemplified on the diagram by X. ( .Elephas ) , # XI .
( ) , XII .
or XIII .
( Chiromys).t Again , working in another direction , we can obtain an idea of the tooth evolution that has taken place in the Marsupials by starting from the " generalised Marsupial " Stage .
Dentition .
Fig. 4 .
Process .
Remarks or examples .
1 A , c PM A M __A_ X 2 3 4 \#151 ; '1 5 1 !
\#151 ; 1 2 3 V t 1 2 3 4 5 IV .
V V V V V V V V V V ip LJ I I LJ LJ O Generalised Marsupial .
IVa .
V V V V V V V o V V w I I LJ LJ LJ O Loss of pm2 .
Didelphys and most Perameles .
TVb .
V V V V o V V o V V IP LJ LJ LJ LJ O Loss oi i5 .
Phascologale , Thylacinus , and some Perameles .
IVc .
V V V V o V V 0 V V o LJ LJ LJ U Loss of milk pm4 I and retention of m5 .
Myrmecobius .
IY d. V V V V o V V o V o LJ LJ LJ LJ 0 Loss of pm4 .
Dasyurus .
Iv .
V V V o o V V o V V w LJ LJ LJ LJ O Loss of i4 from IYb .
Pseudochirus , Tliylacoleo , \amp ; c. IV/ .
V V V o o V o o o V LJ LJ LJ LJ Loss of pms1 and 3 .
0 Reduction in size of milk pm4 .
Phascolarctos .
IV ; / .
V o o o o o o o o V LJ LJ I I LJ Loss of i2 and 3 , O canine and milk pm4 , from IYf .
Phascolomys .
IVA V v V o 0 o o o V V IIP LJ LJ LJ LJ n Loss of canine and pm1 from I Yd .
Macropus .
% stage represented by IV .
in figs. 1 and 2 , at which point the direct evolution of Diphyodontism was in their case arrested , and drawing up a similar diagram ( fig. 4 ) to those already given .
This diagram , however , is quite simple , and only depends on the loss or variation of individual teeth , and therefore does not need any detailed explanation beyond what is placed under the headings of " Process " and " Remarks " in the diagram itself .
The position of this line of dental evolution in the general system is shown on Plate 2 under the heading of " Metatherian branch .
" * * No evidence as yet exists as to which of the three incisors is represented by the Elephant 's tusk , which is here only provisionally called i1 .
f See Petebs , 'Berlin , Akad .
Abhandl .
, ' 1865 ( Phys. ) , p. 79 et .
, PI .
2 .
+ Of course it is not pretended that the dentitions of these animals are directly descended from one another , but the diagram serves to show by what steps any individual dentition may have been evolved from the generalised type .
Of the other Mammalian orders all fall easily enough into their places in this scheme , * with two exceptions , namely the Cetacea and Edentata .
As regards the first , the general drift of the evidence seems to be that their ancestors have passed through a stage with a more or less complete milk dentition , which has gradually been again aborted , t its place being taken in the Odontocetes by the large and quasi-vegetative increase in the number of the molars , and .
in the Mystacocetes by the baleen , which latter has so fulfilled all the requirements of the animal that the " permanent " or original dentition has also been reduced to the position of a useless atavism , shed or absorbed before birth , and not playing any functional part in the life of the animal .
In the Edentata , on the other hand , we find , as is well known , characteristics wholly at variance with those cf all other Mammals .
In fact , a study of the teeth of this Fig. 5 .
Premaxillary teeth .
Dentition .
Maxillary teeth .
Process .
Remarks and examples .
( A \ 1 2 3 4 5 V V V V V o o o o V rf2345678_9 VVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVo Loss of i1-4 .
Generalised Mammal ( Stage I. of fig. 3 ) .
Dasypus .
o o o o o V V V V V V v v(v ) Loss of i5 .
Xenurus , \amp ; c. o o o o o VVVVVVVVV , \amp ; c. , up to 25 Increase of number of molars .
Priodon .
o o o o o VVVVVoooo Decrease of number Bradypodidae , of molars .
Megatheriidae .
o o o o o o o o o o ooooooooo VVVVVVVvo If If IP Ilf If HIP HP Total loss of teeth .
Assumption of milk-teeth .
Myrmecophagidae , Manida3 .
Tatusia .
order soon induces a belief that the variance is so great as to preclude the possibility of the Edentates lying within the same lines of development as other Mammals , a belief that tallies exactly with the conclusions of Professor Parker , ] ; drawn from the embryology of the group .
With this idea we may look upon the dentition of the Edentates as also based , like that of other Mammals , on Stage I. of the diagrams ( fig. 3 , and Plate 28 ) , but modified in a different direction , and one peculiar to itself .
Working out this suggestion , as before , by means of diagrams , we have the same Stage I. ( fig. 5 , a ) , in which the teeth are simple , and only divisible into five premaxillary and a variable number of maxillary * Except that , of course , innumerable problems still remain to be settled as to which of the typical number of teeth are present or have disappeared in the different groups .
This is , however , merely a matter of detail , and does not affect the scheme in general .
t Gf .
Flower , ' Journ. Anat .
Physiol. , ' vol. 3 , 1869 , p. 271 .
+ ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1885 , p. 116 .
' Mammalian Descent , ' p. 97 , 1885 .
SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURIDiE .
teeth .
Then , with merely the slight modification of the loss of the first four premaxillary teeth , we get ft the dentition of Dasypus ; next , by the suppression of the last premaxillary tooth as well , we obtain y , that of and Chlamydophorus .
Then , on the one hand , a simple increaseof the number of the maxillary teeth to 20 or more results in 8 , the dentition of and , on the other , a similar decrease to 5 in that of Bradypusand its allies , both recent and fossil ( e ) .
This reduction is then carried out to its extreme in Myrmecoplmga and Manis ( \#163 ; ) , both entirely toothless .
Finally , r\ based on y , with the superaddition of a nearly complete set of milk-teeth , gives us the remarkable and unique double dentition of the genus Tatusia .
Should this view of the derivation of the Edentata be correct , it is evident that their line of development should have a name corresponding to the useful evolutionary terms suggested by Professor Huxley !
for the great Mammalian groups , and since almost universally used .
I would , therefore , altogether remove the Edentates from the " Eutheria " and call them the " Paratheria/ ' to indicate their position by the side of , but separate from , the other Mammals .
One genus of Edentates has not been mentioned , namely with its extraordinary canaliculated compound teeth , wholly unique among Mammals , and only comparable to those of certain Fish .
I can , however , at present make no suggestion as to the origin or evolution of these teeth , there being as yet no evidence bearing upon them in any way .
Putting now together all the diagrams above worked out , we obtain the general genealogical Table ( Plate 28 ) , in which the three great lines of development are shown , viz. , the main Proto-meta-eutherian stem , I. to XIII .
, at the bottom of which all the modern Placentals stand ; I.-a to I.-77 , the Edentate or Paratherian line ; and I. to IV .
, and from IV .
to IY.-/ 1 , that of the Marsupials .
The influence that these theories , if correct , will exercise on tooth-notation is a matter of detail which will require proper working out in each group ; but it is evident that such generalisations as that missing incisors are always gone from the posterior and missing premolars from the anterior ends of the series are quite untenable , and that every group must have the homologies of its teeth worked out for itself , and not merely put down under the influence of any such general rule .
This influence has even caused such eccentricities as the numbering of the premolars from behind forwards , a proceeding which would , for example , result in the two premolars of Dasyurus being called ( from before backwards ) pm2 and pm1 , instead of , as they have above been shown to be , pm1 and pm3 respectively .
Having now put forward the views gained by my own examination of specimens , there remains to be noticed the other published work on the subject .
The numerous contributions to the history of teeth made by Sir Richard Owen during the last 50 * Or , perhaps , rather a retention of the numerous teeth no doubt possessed by the earliest Prototheria .
t ' Zool. Soc. Proc. , ' 1880 , p. 653 et seq. years are so well known as to need no more than a passing mention from me .
In all questions of fact , especially in connection with the fossil forms , I have gained great assistance from them , an assistance for which I must make my due acknowledgment .
Of Professor Flower 's papers , already referred to , it need only be here remarked that every opinion he expressed has been fully confirmed , and that any advance on his papers is due to the examination of a far larger series of specimens than were available to him\#151 ; an examination carried out very largely on the lines indicated by him .
To Mr. C. S. Tomes 's invaluable work , ' Dental Anatomy , ' I am also largely indebted for information in regard to the growth and early development of the teeth .
Of the more recent foreign contributions to the subject , the most important are those of Professor E. D. Cope'1 ' and of Dr. It .
BAUMEt ; but the differences between their views and those now brought forward are so considerable , and involve so much detailed argument , that a criticism upon them would here be out of place .
It must , therefore , suffice to say that their respective views on the descent and homologies of teeth have been fully taken into consideration during the preparation of the present paper .
In conclusion , as it is to the general advantage that true theories should be confirmed and untrue ones soon exploded , I have thought it useful to draw up a few notes on the possible or probable discoveries relating to this subject , in order that they may be looked for and their true bearing understood by persons interested in , and having opportunities for making observations on , tooth-homologies .
1 .
The discovery in a recent Marsupial of a milk-tooth preceding one of the permanent set other than pm4 , and especially i1 .
This discovery , although unlikely to be made , would on the whole be confirmatory of the views above advocated , as it would show that the process of the formation of milk-teeth is still going on in the Marsupials on the lines believed to have been followed by the common ancestors both of them and of the Eutheria , 2 .
The same in a fossil , undoubtedly Marsupial , and in its other characters allied to , and perhaps ancestral to , the living forms .
This would be obviously entirely fatal , as it would show that the view as to the Marsupial tooth-change being a remnant and not a commencement of a full change is , after all , the true one .
On the other hand , it is just possible that some of the extinct Marsupials may have antedated the existing species in the formation of a fuller milk dentition , and have then died out from some unexplained cause .
A full , and not a rudimentary , tooth-change in a fossil Marsupial would , therefore , be the best and most final disproof of my views .
That such a discovery , however , will ever be made , I cannot believe , especially considering the astonishing persistence of precisely the same amount of tooth-change from the Mesozoic to the modern Marsupials .
* * Papers in the ' American Naturalist , ' ' Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society , ' and elsewhere .
t ' Odontologische Forschungen.\#151 ; Versuch einer Entwickelungsgeschichte des Gebisses , ' 1882 .
SUCCESSION OF THE TEETH IN THE DASYURIDH3 .
4G1 3 .
Fossil Eutherian Mammals , showing an intermediate degree of tooth-change between the modern Eutheria and Metatheria , would obviously be highly favourable to the views now put forward as furnishing some of the intermediate stages corresponding to those above called Stages YI .
and VII .
4 .
The discovery of a rudimentary successor to any of the premolars or other teeth now unchanging in the Marsupials .
This also would be fatal , as it would show that it is , after all , the permanent and not the milk set of teeth which is superadded .
It is , however , possible that at the first commencement of the assumption of a fuller change by the Marsupial ancestors of the Placental Mammals the Marsupial characters of inflected jaw , imperfect palate , \amp ; e. , were retained for some time after the rudimentary tooth-change had been improved upon .
In some Mesozoic fossils , therefore , the Metatherian osteological and Eutherian dental characters may be found to have co-existed for a certain time without invalidating the views above expressed .
5 .
Fossil Edentates with more premaxillary teeth than one , or , in other groups than true Dasypus , with any at all , would be confirmatory of the suggestion that the Edentates descended from the same Stage I. as other Mammals , and had lost four , or all , of their original number of five premaxillary teeth .
6 .
Further instances of the atavistic recurrence of usually absent teeth in all groups of Mammals are much needed for the working out of the tooth-homologies in the different groups .
On any of these points it will be most important to have information , and I hope that such , whether favourable or adverse to my views , will , if correct and properly authenticated , be soon forthcoming .
Explanation of the Plates .
PLATE 27 .
Fig. 1 .
Anterior cheek-teeth of Phascologale Fig. 2 .
" " , , Fig. 3 .
, , " , , Fig. 4 .
, , , , , , apicalis .
Fig. 5 .
" " Dasyurus This series shows the gradual decrease in size , and ultimate loss , of the last premolar ( pm4 ) .
Fig. 6 .
Anterior cheek-teeth of Phascologale , showing the milk pm4 in position , and its successor above it still buried in the bone .
Fig. 7 .
Anterior cheek-teeth , left side , of abnormal specimen of dorsalis , showing atavistic second premolar ( pm2 ) in position .
Fig. 8 .
Reversed drawing of the right side of the same specimen , to show the relative positions of the teeth .
Fig. 9 .
Lower jaw of Myrmecobius , showing retarded eruption of pm4 ' .
Fig. 10 .
Lower jaw of Triacanthodon serrula , showing the germ of the permanent pm4 , buried in the bone ( after Owen ) .
Fig. 11 .
Front of upper jaw of a young showing retarded development of the first incisor .
Fig. 12 .
The same in Phascologale ivallacei .
Fig. 13 .
Adult Phascologale wallacei , showing relative size of first incisor when fully developed .
PLATE 28 .
Diagrammatic representation of Mammalian tooth-evolution .
On the right is the main stem of evolution , from the Prototherian to the Eutherian dentition .
On the left , above , is the Paratherian ( Edentate ) , and below , the continued Metatherian branch .
Main Stem.\#151 ; I. Generalised Prototherian dentition .
II .
and III .
Intermediate stages towards\#151 ; IV .
Generalised Metatherian dentition .
V. , VI .
, and VII .
Intermediate stages towards\#151 ; VIII .
and IX .
Generalised Eutherian dentitions .
X. to XIII .
Examples of specialised Eutherian dentitions : X. , Elephas ; XI .
, HydromysXII .
, FelisXIII .
, Chiromys .
Paratherian Stem.\#151 ; Starting from I. or a , the generalised Prototherian dentition .
ft , Dasypus ; e , Bradypodidse , Megatheriidse ; \#163 ; , Manidse and Myrmecophagidse ; y , Tatusia .
Metatherian Branch.\#151 ; Starting from I. , the Prototherian , to IV .
, the generalised Metatherian dentition .
IV .
a. Didelphys , and most IV .
b. Phascologale , and some Perameles .
IV .
c. Myrmecobius .
IV .
d. Dasyurus .
Pkil .
Trcuis .
1887 .
B 27 .
c pm,1 .
pm , ?
pm , t m , 'l l/ Vfeat^evrmeun 3cO ?
.imp Thomcus .
Fhil .
Tr ana .
18 8 7 .
B. Flote 2 8 .
ParaJtuercouns fF cteruboutez ) FremaxxiUxary Wa/ xiJUxxry teeth/ .
1 Z 3 4 6 A999 oV \#166 ; ; !
; I e. 6 0 O 6 0 J !
I j !
s. 6 o 6 6 6 f : i t t ' t i S15 i i i i i , i i i l I 5 !
t ^.00000 y Sc. \ olb uvFig .
5 .
1 Z 3 4 5 6 7 8 3 VVVVVVVV C VVVVV 0066 r 11 1 ) '1 !
\#166 ; t 1 i I i Km .
i i !
; 000000000 " i I I : i i T !
iVVVVVVVv o % ?
^ ^ lif Metabboervan/ Moltsvupuxb ) branch ; Jndsors .
Conlns .
I 1 \#163 ; 3 4 51 7 4 1Vc , YvvW V vow UUUU ' IV- VvVVo \f YoVV UULIL1 | 1 \#171 ; !
5 V f T ! !
I ! .
IV Vyvv o \j yvyV uuuiliu IVdVYvvo y \lt ; /oLiOudl 1*^C .
bo IVll .
ous vrul'-ig .
4 .
Main ; Froto\#151 ; metaj\#151 ; eAjjbhjenxxxjv sterna .
JPrzmxjjDaJOLnory Mcuoc-WLcury teeth/ _________^___________ 1 Z 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 W V T ' ~ v -T- V o / O O IV VI wvw V wvv wvvv Incisors TT 7 z 34 II VVVVV III VVVW IV VVVVV .
j i !
] | v Ywo \gt ; i i ' VI YVWo up j un VYY oo \lt ; K VVio ?
^ ^ 1 I fxr V i ' \#166 ; i A " OpOO j i T TT XI V 6 o 6 6 xn^yVoo MV9660 Ccuvjze JPrertvolocre Molars / V wvv j I I I i i t V uuuuu I l l VVV V V YYV 1 I 1 ' V Y^yV V ; , V w \/ wvY V i } w wvv ( ^ IP IP vVvV yv V ip up alw I 0 ii o o o o ?
?o f | j j o VVV ?
W IP a a UUUUU I 1 1 I 1 I I UUUU 6 I i i i i I j | j j LJUULJ 6 , i : I f j I i i .
f I i i i i f i UULJLJ 6 i [ | i i | I | I 1 uljulJ 6 | I I j ; ULlULJ 6 { j. | .
j , j lllULlJ6 6 i i | i i i ULU-JItJ ' .
I I j I UU 6 o I J. i j J j 1 f : Uo 6 o I | } 0 a 1 UUU oj MocuvS terro .
f X GexieralhccexL Frototherlocn dentitions .
Ijiterrru\amp ; dixxtes stages .
IV .
GenrrodtxedlMetoudieruvro dentitunv .
V-VH l IruterTwedtoute stages .
YXI.\amp ; JX , ( jen^aime\lt ; ^XIiu7L"rLazi/ denttbuona .
.X Elephas .
XL Kydromys .
XLL Fells .
XTTT , Gfvbranvys .
ParcUFervaji ; branch/ .\#151 ; p. JDoesypws .
\amp ; .
BrotdypodixL\amp ; s , 3c o. MouxuLaea , 3co .
/ y. TouUoslas .
Metathbervoun branch/ .
IVa .
Fldebphys , \amp ; e. Xv^X .
Thyla/ dacuus , 3ce .
TCc .
Myrraecobujus .
IV , oL Foteyiurils : H.Fiiihet* , dsl.ebJitk .
West^Ife\gt ; va3Qjuri \amp ; 0 ?
imp .

