The Bakerian Lecture : on some new Electro-chemical Phenomena .
By William Thomas Brand , Esq. F.R.S. Prof. Chem. R. I. Read November 25 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 18S14 , p. 51 .
] When any decompositions are effected by means of the voltaick battery , it is known that one of the constituents is attracted towards the positive pole , and the other to the negative .
Of the ultimate chemical elements a very small proportion is attracted by the former , by far the greatest part being attracted by the negative pole ; and it is thence inferred that these are themselves possessed of inherent positive electricity .
Although all the differences observable between voltaic and common electricity have already been shown to depend solely upon difference of quantity and of intensity , Mr. Brand has thought it would be desirable to trace their relation , with regard to a series of phenomena that have not yet undergone a comparative examination , When the flame of a candle is interposed between two bodies oppositely electrified , Mr. Cuthbertson observed that heat passes to the negative surface , and thence inferred the passage of the electric fluid in the same direction .
It occurred to Mr. Brand , that possibly this effect might depend on the nature of the substance employed as the combustible body ; and by substituting the flame of phosphorus instead of the candle , he found the effects were reversed : for then the positive surface became considerably warmer than the negative , the flame itself being now visibly attracted towards the positive ball , instead of inclining like the flame of the candle toward the negative .
The rapid formation of acid matter during the combustion of phosphorus , appeared sufficient to occasion the attraction of this flame to the positive side , in conformity to what occurs in voltaic experiments ; and Mr. Brand conceives the carbon and hydrogen which abound in the flame of the candle to be the cause why that flame takes the opposite direction .
When the flame of olefiant gas was substituted , the negative ball was 100 warmer than the positive ; the flame of sulphuretted hydrogen gave only 30 excess to the negative ball ; that of phosphuretted hydrogen communicated 20 to the positive ball .
Arseniuretted hydrogen heated the negative ball most , though the fumes of white arsenic were visibly drawn toward the positive ball .
With flames of hydrogen or of carbonic oxide the difference of temperature was too small to be fully depended on , but the flame of the latter was directed towards the positive ball .
With respect to sulphur , no particular direction was observed to be given to the flame , but the vapour passed toward the positive ball .
When potassium in a state of combustion was placed between the electrified balls , both the flame and the fumes were drawn to the negative conductor .
The attraction of other fumes being tried , not in the state of combustion , ammonia afforded no distinct result .
Muriatic gas was visibly attracted by the positive pole ; and nitrous acid gas was also drawn in the same direction .
The fumes that arise from benzoin and from , amber , when moderately heated , were attracted as acids to the positive side ; but when these bodies were ignited so as to admit a dense smoky flame , the carbonaceous matter was drawn , like that of other resinous bodies and camphor , to the negative ball .
The majority of these instances , says the author , serve well to illustrate the inherent electrical states of different species of matter , and give a further proof of the identity of common and voltaic electricity , and especially the attraction of the fumes of the phosphoric and benzoic acids to one side , and of the fumes produced by the combustion of potassium and camphor to the other .
But there are some phenomena that did not turn out as might have been expected .
The combustion of carburetted hydrogen , for instance , gives rise to the production of water and of carbonic acid ; but its flame is attracted by , the negative surface .
It is conceived , however , that this direction may be given to the flame by its carbonaceous contents rather than by the products of its combustion .
Mr. Brand is of opinion that these experiments may suggest a fair explanation of the phenomena presented by those bodies that are termed unipolar by Mr. Erman , because when connected with one or other extremity of the voltaic battery , they transmit the influence of only one species of electricity .
The flame , for instance , of oil or of wax must be considered as consisting chiefly of these bodies in a state of vapour ; and as their natural electricity is positive , they will have no tendency to destroy that of a positive pole with which they are connected , and the gold leaves of an electrometer will continue to diverge ; but when they are applied to a negative pole , their inherent positive electricity will neutralize that of the battery to which they are united , and the gold leaves will in consequence collapse .

