II .
An Experiment touching the Freezing of Common Water , and Water Purged of Air .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. THIS Experiment was recommended to me , in order to discover what difference would happen in the Swelling or Bulk of Ice , producible on the Freezing of Common Water , and Water Purged of Air .
Accordingly I procured a couple of Glasses , in form of the Figure in the Margin .
These , when filled with the different Waters to a determinate height , supposing at a , a , I conveyed into the Freezing Mixture , ( which was nothing else but a Composition of Snow and Bay-Salt powdered pretty fine ) where they did not remain above three or four Minutes of time , before the Congelation began in each of them , which was very discernible , by the Ascent of the Water in their respective Tubes , above their first Heights a , a ; and in about an Hours time , it had ascended in that Glass , which contained the Water purged of Air , at least 6 Inches ; but in the other Glass with common Water , not so much by more than an Inch ; there being such a Disparity in the Content of the two Glasses , the last mentioned being less by a fifth part than the other , which contained not full four Ounces .
It was observable , that during the Glasses continuance in the Frigorisick Mixture , small Bubbles of Air did continually ascend in that which was filled with Common Water , but aa bb but not the least sign of any such appearance in the other .
When I had taken them out of the premention d Mixture , ( which was at something more than an Hours time from their first putting in)I poured from them the Unfrozen Water , which gave me the Liberty of discovering the various forms the new madeIce had shot it self into .
That Glass which contained the Purged Water , appearing all over the Sides and upper part of it , to the very Neck b b , of divers Figures , much resembling those of Salts .
The Bottom part of it c c , discovered it self to be seemingly solid , but whitish , as if it was full of very minute intersperst Vacuities ; but not like those Cavities , which are very observable in the Freezing of Common Water ; and what was very notable , at the Bottom of the other Glass they appeared in great Numbers , of a longish Form , seemingly pointing all round from the Circumference to the Centre of it .
There were none of those premention 'd Salt-like Figures on the sides of this , as the other , but it was almost clear from any Adherence of Ice , saving towards the upper part near the Neck , where a little had fastened it self with those longish Bubbles , pointing from that part downwards , inclining to the Centre .
From all which I cannot but conclude , that the Ice produced from the Water purged of Air , was equally augmented in its Bulk to the Quantity of Water from which it was produced , as that which proceeded from the Frozen Common Water ; for had the Glasses been of an equal Content , I see no reason to doubt , but the Water would have been equally Frozen in both , and the Ascent of the unfrozen part of them would have been much the same in their Tubes .
But if there be any difference , the Water purged of Air seems to claim the easiest Disposition to be Frozen .
The Water I purged from Air in the following manner .
I first boiled it well over the Fire ; afterwards I included it in Vacuo , where it remained in that State till it was cold ; from whence I took it , and proceeded presently on the Experiment , which on two Trials succeeded alike .

