An Extract of a Letter Written by Francis Willoughby Esquire to the Publisher , containing some Observations of his made on some Sycamore-Trees , the Black-Poplar , and the Walnut : As also his thoughts about the Dwarf-Oaks , and the Stellar Fish described in Numb. 57 .
I Am sorry , I cannot return you a better Answer to yours of March 19 ; the Experiments , which our leisure hath since permitted us to make , being not sufficient to found a new Hypothesis on , to confirm Dr. Teng 's .
Since the Leaves have been explicated , we have observed the Sycamore after several frosty nights to bleed afresh in the morning , soon after Sun-rising , when it had ceased several days before : Though this must not be understood of all Sycamores , but of some only that are more sensible and observant of the Weather .
April 3d .
and 4th .
all the Sycamores quite ceased .
The 5th .
being after a white frost , they began to bleed about 8a clock , and ceased towards noon .
The 9th , 12th , 13th , 15th they bled again .
The 10th , 11th , 14th were not observed .
This 16th they bled not , it being rainy , and the Sun not shining .
From the Observations we have hitherto made , we think it may be certainly inferred , that a morning-sun after a frost will make all the Bleeding Tribe bleed afresh , though they had before ceased ; and that this new bleeding towards the latter end of the season commonly ceaseth before morning .
Possibly some may bleed after a frost , yet further in the Summer .
I observed last year in August a copious and spontaneous exudation , very like bleeding , of a viscous yellow Juice out of the buds of a black Poplar .
Our Walnut-trees bleed here in January .
The Starre-fish , in the last Transactions , is the Stella arborescens Rondeletii p. 121 .
first described by him , and since by other Naturalists .
There is no such dwarf-Oak in Old England , growing wild , as was sent you out of New-England , nor in any other Country , where we have been , unless it be the Ilex coccifera , which is a low shrub , bearing large Acorns , and hath a prickly leaf like Holly .
If it prove that , it will be a lucriferous discovery .
Midleton in Warwick shire April 16 .
1670 .

