98 Prof. 0 .
Lodge .
Aberration Problems : [ Mar. 81 , IV .
" Aberration Problems : a Discussion concerning the Connexion between Ether and Matter , and the Motion of the Ether , near the Earth .
" By Oliver Lodge , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , University College , Liverpool .
Received March 31 , 1892 .
( Abstract .
) The paper begins by recognising the distinction between ether in free space and ether as modified by transparent matter , and points Qut that the modified ether , or at least the modification , necessarily travels with the matter .
The well-known hypothesis of Fresnel is discussed and re-stated in modern form .
Of its two parts , one has been verified by the experiment of Fizeau , the other has not yet been verified .
Its two parts are , ( 1 ) that inside transparent matter the velocity of light is affected by the motion of that matter , and ( 2 ) that immediately outside moving matter there is no such effect .
The author proceeds to examine into the truth of this second part , ( 1 ) by discussing what is already known , ( 2 ) by fresh experiment .
The phenomena resulting from motion are four , viz.:\#151 ; 1 .
Changes in direction , observed by telescope and called aberration .
2 .
Change in frequency , observed by spectroscope and called Doppler effect .
3 .
Change in time of journey , observed by lag of phase or shift of interference bands .
4 .
Change in intensity , observed by energy received by thermopile .
After a discussion of the effects of motion in general , which differ according as projectiles or waves are contemplated , the case of a fixed source in a moving medium is considered ; then of a moving source in a fixed medium ; then the case of medium alone moving past source and receiver ; and , finally , of the receiver only moving .
It is found that the medium alone moving causes no change in direction , no change in frequency , no detectable lag of phase , and probably no change of intensity ; and hence arises the difficulty of ascertaining whether the general body of the ether is moving relatively to the earth or not .
A clear distinction has to be drawn , however , between the effect of general motion of the medium as a whole and motion of parts of the medium , as when dense matter is artificially moved .
The latter kind of motion may produce many effects which the former cannot .
A summary of this part of the discussion is as follows :_ Source alone moving produces a real and apparent change of colour ; a real but not apparent error in direction ; no lag of a Discussion concerning Ether and Matter .
1892 .
] phase , except that appropriate to altered wave-length ; a change of intensity corresponding to different wave-lengths .
Medium alone moving , or source and receiver moving together , gives no change of colour ; no change of direction ; a real lag of phase , but undetectable without control over the medium ; a change of intensity corresponding to different distances , but compensated by change of radiating power .
Receiver alone moving gives an apparent change of colour ; an apparent change of direction ; no change of phase , except that appropriate to extra virtual speed of light ; change of intensity corresponding to different virtual velocity of light .
The probable absence of a first order effect of any kind , due to \#166 ; ethereal drift or relative motion between earth and ether , makes it necessary to attend to second order effects .
The principle of least time is applied , after the manner of Lorentz , to define a ray rigorously and to display the effect of existence or non-existence of a velocity potential .
Fresnel 's law is seen to be equivalent to extending the velocity potential throughout all transparent matter .
It is shown that a ray traversing space or transparent substances will retain its shape , whatever the motion of the medium , so long as that motion is irrotational , and that in that case the apparent direction of objects depends simply on motion of observer ; but , on the other hand , that if the earth drags with it some of the ether in its neighbourhood , stellar rays will be curved , and astronomical aberration will be a function of latitude and time of day .
The experiment of Boscovich , Airy , and Hoek , as to the effect of filling a telescope-tube with water , does not discriminate between these theories .
For if the ether is entirely non-viscous and has a velocity potential , stellar rays continue straight , in spite of change of medium ( or at oblique incidence are repeated in the simple manner ) , and there will be no fresh effect due to change of medium ; while , if , on the contrary , the ether is all carried along near the earth , then it is stationary in a telescope tube , whether that be filled with water or air , and likewise no effect is to be expected .
In the case of a viscous .ether , all the difficulty of aberration must be attacked in the upper layers above the earth ; all the bending is over by the time the surface is reached .
It is difficult to see how an ethereal drift will not tend to cause an aberration in the wrong direction .
Of the experiments hitherto made by Arago , Babinet , Maxwell , Mascart , Hoek , and perhaps others , though all necessary to be tried , not one really discriminates between the rival hypotheses .
All are consistent either with absolute quiescence of ether near moving bodies , or with relative quiescence near the earth 's surface .
They may be said , perhaps , to be inconsistent with any intermediate position .
100 Prof. O. Lodge .
Aber [ Mar. 31 , .
Two others , however , do appear to discriminate ; viz. , an old and difficult polarisation experiment of Fizeau , * which has not been repeated since , and the recent famous experiment of Michelson with rays made to interfere after traversing and retraversing paths at right angles .
The conclusions Reducible from these two experiments are antagonistic .
Fizeau 's appears to uphold absolute rest of ether ; Michelson 's upholds relative rest , i.e. , drag by the earth .
The author now attempts a direct experiment as to the effect of moving matter on the velocity of light in its neighbourhood ; assuming that a positive or negative result with regard to the effect of motion on the velocity of light will be accepted as equivalent to a positive or negative result , with respect to the motion of the ether .
He gives a detailed account of the experiment , the result of which is to show that such a mass as a pair of circular saws clamped together does not whirl the ether between the plates to any appreciable amount , not so much , for instance , as a l/ 500th part of their speed .
He surmises , therefore , that the ether is not appreciably viscous .
But , nevertheless , it may perhaps be argued that enormous masses may act upon it gravitationally , straining it so as perhaps to produce the same sort of effect as if they dragged it with them .
He proposes to try the effect of a larger mass .
Also to see if , when subject to a strong magnetic field , ether can be dragged by matter .
The aberrational effect of slabs of moving transparent matter is considered , also the effect of a different refractive medium .
Motion of medium , though incompetent to produce any aberrational or Doppler effect , is shown to be able to slightly modify them if otherwise produced .
The Doppler effect is then entered into .
The question is discussed as to what the deviation produced by a prism or a grating really depends on : whether on frequency or wave-length .
It is shown that whereas the effect of a grating must be independent of its motion and depend on wave-length alone , yet that the effect observed with a moving grating by a moving observer depends on frequency , because the motion of the observer superposes an aberrational effect on the true effect of the grating .
This suggests a means of discriminating motion of source from motion of observer ; in other words , of detecting absolute motion through ether ; but the smallness of the difference is not hopeful .
Michelson 's experiment is then discussed in detail , as a case of normal reflexion from a moving mirror or from a mirror in a drifting medium .
No error in its theory is discovered .
The subjects of change of phase , of energy , of reflexion in a moving * 'Ann .
de Chim .
et de Phys. , ' 1859 .
t 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1887 .
1892 .
] a Discussion concerning Ether and Matter .
101 medium , work done on a moving mirror , and the laws of reflexion and refraction as modified by motion , are considered .
It is found that the law of reflexion is not really obeyed in a relatively moving medium , though to an observer stationary with respect to the mirror it appears to be obeyed , so far as the first order of aberration magnitude is concerned ; but that there is a residual discrepancy involving even powers of aberration magnitude , of an amount possibly capable of being detected by very delicate observation .
The following statements are made and justified :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The planes of incidence and reflexion are always the same .
( 2 .
) The angles of incidence and reflexion , measured between ray and normal to surface , usually differ .
.(3 .
) If the mirror is stationary and medium moving , they differ by a quantity depending on the square of aberration magnitude , i.e. , by 1 part in 100,000,000 ; and a stationary telescope , if delicate enough , might show the effect. .
*(4 .
) If the medium is moving and mirror stationary , the angles differ by a quantity depending on the first power of aberration magnitude ( 1 part in 10,000 ) , but a telescope moving with the mirror will not be able to observe it ; for the commonplace aberration caused by motion of receiver will obliterate the odd powers and leave only the even ones ; the same as in case ( 3 ) .
.(5 .
) As regards the angles which the incident and reflected waives make with the surface , they differ in case ( 3 ) by a first order magnitude , in case ( 4 ) by a second order magnitude .
.(6 .
) At grazing incidence the ordinary laws are accurately obeyed .
At normal incidence the error is a maximum .
( 7 .
) The ordinary laws are obeyed when the direction of drift is either tangential or normal to the mirror ; and are disobeyed most when the drift is at 45 ' .
( 8 .
) In general , the shape of the incident wave is not precisely preserved after reflexion in a moving medium .
To a parallel beam the mirror acts as if slightly tilted ; to a conical beam as if slightly curved .
But either effect , as observable in the result , is almost hopelessly small .
( 9 .
) Similar statements are true for refraction , assuming Fresnel 's law .
The possibility of obtaining first order effects from general ethereal motion by means of electrical observations is considered .

