A paper was read , " On the Meteorological Observations made at the Apartments of the Royal Society , during the Years 1827 , 1828 , and 1829 .
" By J. W. Lubbock , Esq. V.P. and Treasurer of the Royal Society .
The author first inquires into the annual and diurnal variations of the barometer and thermometer , for the determination of which he takes the mean of the observations in each month made at the Apartments of the Royal Society , during the years 1827 , 1828 , and 1829 ; and also that deduced from Mr. Bouvard 's observations , pub ?
lished in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Sciences .
From the table given it would appear that the annual variations are inde ?
pendent of the diurnal variations .
A much greater number of observations than we possess at present , made frequently and at stated times each day , are requisite before any very satisfactory conclusion can be deduced as to the influence of the moon on the fluctuations of the barometer .
The author , however , has attempted the inquiry , as far as the limited range of the present records will allow , by classifying all the observed heights , corresponding to a particular age of the moon , as defined by her transit taking place within a given half hour of the day ; and thence deducing mean results , which are exhibited in tables .
The results afforded by the observations at Somerset House differ widely from those obtained from corresponding observations made at the Paris Observatory .
According to the former , the ba ?
rometer is highest at new and full moons , and lowest at the quadratures the extent of the fluctuations being 0.08 of an inch : acaording to the latter , the contrary is the case , and the extent is only 0.05 of an inch .
Lastly , the author endeavoursto ascertain how far the barometer is affected by the direction of the wind , and gives in the form of tables the mean results of observations hearing upon this point .
The fluctuation , he observes , due to this , is much greater than that due to any other cause .
The barometer is lowest , as might be expected , when the wind is in the rainy quarters of S.W. and W.S.W. There are not yet sufficient data for any general conclu ?
sions with regard to the influence of electrical phenomenon on the weather .

