I. " On the Functions of the Cerebellum .
" By WILLIAM HowSHIP DICKINSON , M.D. Cantab .
, Curator of the Pathological Museum , St. George 's Hospital , Assistant Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children .
Communicated by Dr. BENCE JONES .
Received March 8 , 1864 .
( Abstract .
) The paper is divided into two Parts ; the first gives the results of experiments on animals ; the second , of observations upon the human being .
PART I. Assuming that the great divisions of the brain preserve each the same function through the vertebrate kingdom , it is maintained that experiments which can be performed only on such of the lower animals as are very tenacious of life , will afford deductions of universal application .
The method of proceeding with regard to each species was to remove , first , the whole encephalon , with the exception of the medulla oblongata ; then in a similar animal only the cerebrum was taken away .
The only difference between the two cases was in the fact that one animal bad a cerebellum , and the other had not .
A comparison was believed to show , in the powers which one had more than the other , the function of the organ the possession of which constituted the only difference .
Finally it was ascertained in each species what is the effect of taking away the cerebellum alone .
The use of the organ was thus estimated in two ways-by the effect of its addition to the medulla , and of its subtraction from the rest of the nervous system .
The species so treated are arranged in an ascending scale , according to the comparative weight of the cerebellum .
The field-snake , frog , salamander , toad , land-tortoise , eel , water-tortoise , pike , perch , tench , dace , carp , gold-fish , rudd , loach , and gudgeon were subjected to these operations ; besides which , many experiments of a less systematic character were made upon birds and mammalia .
The results are these : In Reptiles , with the exception of the snake , the cord , together with the medulla oblongata , is sufficient to give the power of voluntary or spontaneous motion--limited , but usually enough to allow of feeble locomotion .
With the addition of the cerebellum , all actions dependent on the will appear to be naturally performed .
The removal of the cerebellum shows that the cerebrum by itself is unable to give more than a limited amount of voluntary motion , and that of a kind deficient in balance and adjustment .
It is therefore inferred that the cord , together with the medulla oblongata , is a great source of spontaneous motor power , in which function both the cerebrum and the cerebelluim take part , the cerebellum to the greater extent ; it also appears that a certain harmony in the use of the muscles depends on the possession of the latter organ .
Regarding Fishes , the cord and medulla oblonigata seem unequal to the performance of voluntary motion .
When the cerebellum is added , the powers become so far extended that movements are made in obedience to external stimuli .
Generally speaking , a determined position is maintained and locomotion accomnplished , without the use , however , of the pectoral fins .
If the cerebellum only be takeln away , there is a loss of the proper adjustmenit between the right and left sides ; so that oscillation or rotation takes place .
All the limbs are used , but apparently with a deficiency of sustained activity .
It is therefore concluided that with Fishes , as with Reptiles , the power of intentional movement is shared by both cerebrum and cerebellum ; the former in this case has the larger influience .
Such movements as depend on the cerebrum are destitute of lateral balance , are sudden in being affected by any external cause , and are emotional in their character .
Such as depend on the cerebellum are mutually adjusted , of a continuous kind , and less directly under the influence of consciousness .
The same facts were supported by experiments on the higher orders of animals : in these it seemed that the cord and medulla are insufficient to excite voluntary movements .
The muscles , as with fishes and reptiles , acknowledge a double rule , from the cerebrumn and from the cerebellum .
The anterior limbs are most subservient to the cerebrun ; the posterior to the cerebellum .
The limbs on one side are in connexion chiefly with the lobe of the opposite side .
The absence of the cereTellum destroys the power of lateral balance .
From the negative results of the experiments , it is inferred that the cerebellum has nothing to do with common sensation , with the sexual propensity , with the action of the involuntary muscles , with the maintenance of animal heat , or with secretion .
The only function which the experiments assigned to the cerebellum is such as concerns the voluintary muscles , which receive therefrom a regulated supply of motor influence .
Each lateral half of the cerebellum affects both sides , but the one opposite to itself most .
The cerebellum has a property distinct from its true voluntary power , which harmonizes the action of the voluintary muscles , and has been described as " ' coordinationp .
" The voluntary muscles are under a double influence-from the cerebrum and from the eerebellum .
The anterior limbs are chiefly under the influ ence of the cerebruim ; the posterior , of the cerebellum .
Cerebellar movements are apt to be habitual , while cerebral are impulsive .
The cerebellun acts when the cerebram is remnoved , though when both organs exist it is under its control .
PAnT Ilo From an analysis of one case of congenital absence of the cerebellum , one of disease of the whole organ , and 46 of disease of a portion of it , the folb lowing de lucotionis are stated : The only faculty which conistantly suffers in consequence of chaniges in the cerebellum , is the power of voluntary rmoven i at .
When the organ is absent or defective congenitally , we have want of action in the muscles of the lower extremities .
Whien the entire structure is chaiuged by dsease , we have loss of voluntary power , either general throughout the trunk , or limited to the lower limbs-which resuLlts are about equally frequent .
Prom the manner in which the paralvsis was distribnated in cases of disease of a part of the organ , it is inferred that each lobe is in connexion as a source of voluintary movenment with all the fouir limbs , but in the greatest degree with the limbs of the opposite side , anlI with the lower more than with the upper extremities .
The occasional occurrence of loss of visual power , and alterations of the sexual propeni sity , is referred to the con v.yance of irritation to the corpora quadrigemina in one case , and the spinial cord in the other .
From both sources of knowledge it is concluded that the cerebellum has distinct offices .
It is a source of voluntary motor power to the muscles supplied by the spinal nerves .
It influences the lower i-ore than the uipper limbs , and produces habitual rather than imripuLlsive movements .
Each lobe affects both sides of the body , but most that opposite to itself .
Secondly , the cerebellum has a power which has been described as that of " coordination , " which is similarly distributed .
Finally , it is suggested that the outer portion of the organ may be the source of its voluntarv motor power , while its inner layer is the means of regulatin.g its distribution .

