VI .
" Researches on the Phosphorus-Bases .
" By A. W. HOFMANN , Ph. D. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 28 , 1858 .
In a paper published in the Transactions of the Royal Society , we ( M. Cahours and myself ) have given a detailed account of the preparation of the phosphorus-bases , and also an accurate description of triethylphosphine , the most characteristic and accessible representative of this class of compounds .
The object of our joint inquiry was chiefly to examine the phosphorus-bases as a class , and to establish their analogy with the corresponding terms of the nitrogen-series .
The deportment of the phosphorus-bodies in their relation to other compounds has as yet been scarcely investigated .
For several months I have been engaged in this study , which promises a rich harvest of results .
Most of the experiments were made with triethylphosphine , a substance which , in consequence of its convenient position in the system of organic compounds , in consequence of the variety of its attachments , the energy and precision of its action , and , lastly , the well-defined character of its compounds , will probably become an agent of predilection in the hands of the chemist .
It is my intention to trace the history of this remarkable body in its several directions ; and for this purpose , in fact , a considerable amount of material has been already accumulated .
But since necessarily some time must elapse before such an inquiry , which from the peculiar character of the compound is often obstructed by unusual difficulties , can be completed , I beg leave to present my results in the same measure as the inquiry advances , hoping that at a later period I may be allowed to collect the scattered observations , and to lay them in a more elaborated and digested form before the Society .
Among the numerous reactions of triethylphosphine , my attention has been chiefly directed to the compounds which this body furnishes when submitted to the action of organic chlorides , bromides , and iodides .
I. Action of Bibromide of Ethylene upon Triethylphosphine .
In the anhydrous condition the two bodies act even at the common temperature with considerable power upon each other , a white cry stalline substance being immediately precipitated .
If the reaction be allowed to go on in the presence of a large volume of anhydrous ether , the deposition of the crystalline body is considerably retarded , unless the mixture , in an appropriate apparatus , be exposed to the temperature of boiling water .
After a short digestion , on distilling off the ether and the excess of bibromide , a crystalline cake is left in the retort , consisting of several bromides , the nature and the relative proportions of which appear in a great measure to depend upon the rapidity of the reaction .
I have found it most convenient to work with ethereal solutions at the common temperature .
The determination of the bromine in the crystalline body revealed at once the compound character of this substance , for it steadily diminished by dissolving the bromide in absolute alcohol , and reprecipitating it partially by ether .
By repeating this process four or five times , a body of constant composition was obtained .
The compound thus prepared is a crystalline mass , without odour , extremely soluble in water , and even in absolute alcohol , but insoluble in anhydrous ether .
It exhibited a rather unexpected composition , for on analysis it was found to contain C16 H19 PBr , , and consequently to have been formed by the simple union of 1 equivalent of triethylphosphine and 1 equivalent of bibromide of ethyene , C12 I-1 P-lC , H1 Br= Cl 119PBr2 .
The bromine in this compound exists in two perfectly different forms ; addition of nitrate of silver precipitated only one-half of this element as bromide of silver , while even by protracted ebullition the second half remained untouched .
The result changed , however , on digestion with freshly precipitated oxide of silver , when the whole of the bromine separated at once in the form of bromide of silver .
On adding to the solution of the bromide an excess of nitrate of silver , filtering off the bromide , and removing the excess of silver by hydrochloric acid , a corresponding chloride was obtained , from which bichloride of platinum precipitated a beautiful orange-yellow platinum-salt .
In a moderately diluted solution which had been previously gently heated , no immediate precipitate was produced ; but on cooling , the same salt was ( eposited in magnificent needles , which could be recrystallized from boiling water , or better from hydrochloric acid .
This compound contained C10 I BrPCl , PtCl , .
A difficultly soluble gold-salt , crystallizing from boiling water in small scales , was found to have the corresponding composition , C,1 Hi9 BrPCI , AuCl3 .
Very different results were observed when the whole of the bromine was removed by means of oxide of silver .
A powerfully alkaline solution was thus obtained , which , converted into hydrochlorate , gave , with bichloride of platinum , a precipitate only after very considerable evaporation .
The precipitate was likewise of a deep orange-red colour ; it readily dissolved in boiling water , from which it separated on cooling in the form of well-defined octahedra having the composition C016 H8 PC1 , PtC,2 .
Terchloride of gold furnished likewise a crystalline precipitate very similar in appearance to the gold-salt previously mentioned , but containing C , , H18 PClj AuCl , .
The action of bibromide of ethylene on triethylphosphine , and the subsequent transformation of the compound produced , is readily explained .
The two substances unite in equal equivalents , the product of the reaction being the bromide of a phosphonium , in which the fourth equivalent of hydrogen is replaced by a compound molecule , C4HIBr ( brominetted ethyl ?
) , of monatomic substitution-power , C4 11 Bromide of triethyl-bromethylene-C4 H1 Pr phosphonium C4 11 fj ( C , H4 Br ) ' The compound phosphonium of this bromide possesses very considerable stability , as is sufficiently evinced by its deportment with nitrate of silver , and by the formation of the platinumand of the gold-salt .
All my attempts , however , to separate the base itself have entirely failed .
Under the influence of oxide of silver , the bromide yields an alkaline solution possessing all the characters of the -onium-bases .
The body in solution , however , no longer belongs x to the same series , the elements of hydrobromic acid having separated from the original compound metal .
C4H5 C4H Ca H , c4 H5 PBr + 2AgO 2AgBr + C4 H5 PO , HO .
( C4 H4 Br ) ' Ca 3 The compound thus obtained may be designated as the hydrated oxide of triethyl-vinyl-phosphonium .
I have ascertained by experiment that the brominetted bromide is by no means the only result of the action of bibromide of ethylene on triethylphosphine , although under favourable circumstances it appears to be the chief product .
Invariably a portion of the bibromide , faithful to its traditions , splits into hydrobromic acid and bromide of vinyl ; and we find therefore in the white crystalline mass always , together with hydrobromate of triethylphosphine , a certain quantity of the very bromide of triethyl-vinyl-phosphonium , which , as has been stated , results from the action of oxide of silver on the brominetted bromide .
CH PIBr+H 2C H , P +CHBr2= C4H5 P , 11,5 PBr .
CL HH 11 PH ^4 c,5 4 - " 545 ~IH C HI C4 113 ) The action of bibromide of ethylene on triethylphosphine , complex as it is , receives an additional element of complication by the influence of heat .
Ebullition appears to facilitate the formation of a fourth bromide , which , although less prominently , is also produced in the cold .
The study of this compound is not yet completed .

