VII .
" The Formation and Early Growth of the Bones of the Human Face .
" By GEORGE W. CALLENDER , Lecturer on Anatomy at St. Bartholomew 's Hospital .
Communicated by JAMES PAGET , F.R.S. Received June 2 , 1868 .
( Abstract .
) These notes refer to some few points with which we are as yet imper* The fusing-point of this substance is , by misprint ( Proc. Roy .
Soc. vol. xvi .
p. 302 ) , stated to be 244 ?
, instead of 204 ?
.---A .
W. H. 186s8 .
] 447 fectly acquainted , such as the growth of the maxilla , and the formation and subsequent obliteration of the intermaxillary bones .
As they are simply a narration of facts , it is almost impossible to give a satisfactory abstract of them .
After brief consideration of the arrangement of the cartilages for the ethmoid and turbinate bones and for the septum of the nose , an account is given of the appearances observed in a human foetus four-tenths of an inch long , noticing the relations of the maxillary lobes , of the parts which represent the palate , and showing that the opposite sides unite from before backwards to form the palate , the soft palate remaining ununited in a foetus one inch and five-tenths long .
The superior maxilla is described , before ossification has commenced , in a foetus nine-tenths of an inch long .
Although ossification begins in this bone at many distinct points , the rapidity with which the separate ossifications are fused make it undesirable to name each as a distinct centre .
The palatal and alveolar portions are formed somewhat later than the remainder of the bone .
In a foetus two inches and three-tenths long the bone consists of a nasal process , deeply grooved on its inner surface , of an incisor process , which has not hitherto been accurately described , of orbital and of palatal-alveolar portions ; the infraorbital fissure is distinctly marked , and a deep notch shows the situation of the canine socket .
The principal changes which are noticed during the growth of the bone result from the thickening and marking of the nasal process , the formation of the nasal groove and of the inner and outer walls of the antrum , the variations in the relative size of that cavity , the deepening of the sockets for the teeth , the formation of the septa dividing them , and the changes in the orbital plate .
The order and method of these changes are separately narrated .
The ossification of the vomer is shown to commence from its inferior and anterior parts , whence also ossification extends to the intermaxillary bones , which are formed in the membrane bounding the anterior nares .
Each of these bones acquires its greatest independent size in a foetus about four inches and a half long , and then consists of a nasal process , which eventually fuses with the corresponding portion of the superior maxilla , its apex assisting to form the ridge for the turbinate bone , and of plates which strengthen the incisor portion , and form part of the walls of the incisor sockets .
In a foetus six inches and seven-tenths long the apex alone is distinct , and in a foetus nine .
inches long the bone is lost in the upper maxilla , although the fissure along its posterior margin still outlines its shape .
The bone grows in the fissure between the incisor process and the palate , and is shut off from the face by the first-named and by the nasal process .
Distinctly outlined at the close of the fourth month , it is joined to the superior maxilla during the latter part of the fifth or beginning of the sixth month .
Some facts are related respecting the formation of several of the remaining 448 [ June 18 , bones of the face , and that of the inferior maxilla is specially referred to .
This bone is beginning to ossify in a foetus nine-tenths of an inch long , and is distinctly formed in a foetus one inch and one-tenth long .
Each half may be said to grow from four centres , formed ( 1 ) by the cartilage which tips the condyloid extremity , ( 2 ) by the layer of membrane in front of Meckel 's cartilage , ( 3 ) by the ossification of the anterior extremity of Meckel 's cartilage , ( 4 ) by deposits of bone in the perichondrium of the anterior and middle thirds of the same cartilage , from which is derived the plate of bone which forms the base of the dental canal .
After giving the meastrements of the angles formed between the ascending ramus and the body of the bone , and after referring to the subdivisions of the groove for the teeth , the growth of the mylo-hyoidean ridge is described , as well as the ossification of the anterior extremity of Mecke 's cartilage , the latter forming a triangular block beneath the incisor sockets , to the twist acquired by which the prominence of the front of the maxilla , known as the mentum or chin , appears to be due .
In a feetus four inches and seven-tenths long , the block of bone formed in the anterior extremity of the cartilage of Meckel is still clearly defined .

