II .
" On the Theory of the Gyroscope .
" By the Rev. WILLIAM Coo , M.A. Communicated by Professor A. WILLIAMSON , F.R.S. Received February 13 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The explanation of the movements of the Gyroscope ( as well as its mathematical theory ) is founded on the principle enunciated in the two following verbal formulae .
I. When a particle is made to move I rom a plane by any applied force , but in consequence of its connexion with some rigid body on the same side of the plane , loses some of its momentum in a direction perpendicular to the plane ; all the momentum so lost is imparted to the rigid body , which is consequently impelled f towards 1 from } the plane .
r towards 1 II .
When a particle is made to move from a plane by any applied force , but in consequence of its connexion with some rigid body on the same side of the plane , receives an extra momentum in a direction perpendicular to the plane ; all the momentum so gained is taken from the rigid body , which is consequently impelled { from 1t toards the plane .
The mass of the disc of the gyroscope is supposed to be compressed uniformly into the circumference of a circle of given radius ( r ) , and to revolve round an axis with a given uniform angular velocity ( wo ) .
To facilitate the arithmetical computation of the formulae , masses are represented by weights ; so that any effective accelerating forcef is supposed to be due to a pressure P acting on a mass W , and their relation expressed thus , f= wcr0 The mass of any arc of the circle is denoted by - ; 0 being the angle at the centre , and c the mass of a given length I of the circumference .
The terms of all the formulae are thus made homogeneous .
The centre of gravity of the disc , axle , and the ring which carries the pivots of the axle is fixed , and the whole is moveable about that centre in any manner , subject to the condition that the line of the pivots of the ring is always horizontal , unless when detached from the stand .
Let this straight line of the pivots be denoted by AB , the common centre of the disc and ring by 0 , the extremities of the axle by N and S ; and ON=a .
Let M denote the place of a particle of the disc , its position being determined by the angle AOM ( 0 ) , and let Mt be another point in the disc indefinitely near to M , but more remote from A , the direction in which the disc will presently be supposed to revolve being AMM'B .
A given force F is applied at N perpendicular to the plane ANBS , so that the disc may describe an angle p round AB in the time t ; whereby the points M and Mt describe the two arcs MP==y and MTP'=yt simultaneously .
Suppose the circumference of the circle AMB to be divided into four quadrants , commencing at A , where y=0 , and corresponding with the four ranges of value of 0 through each of four right angles ; suppose M and M ' to be in the first quadrant , so that y ' is greater than y ; then if the disc be supposed to revolve , a particle at M is carried from the line MP to the line M'P ' , so as to acquire an increase of velocity from the plane AMM ' independently of the force F , and consequently ( by the first of the two verbal formulae ) all the momentum so acquired by the particle is lost to the disc , ring , &amp;c. , which are thus impelled as by a force in the direction PM or P'Mf , so as to oppose the rotation imparted by F , but to impart another round 0 in the direction ANB in the plane of the ring ; i. e. in a plane perpendicular to that in which F acts .
A force having the same tendency is found , by means of one or the other of the two verbal formulae , in the other three quadrants , and thus every particle ( dm ) of the disc contributes to the same effect .
This effect is due to the difference of the velocities y and dyf at P and P ' , or to the momentum f _dydm lost or dt dt dt dt ) gained by the particle dm in the time dt .
The value of dYis obtained from the equation y=rq sin 0 , making dt both ( and 0 to vary ; but the value of -y is obtained from that of dt die by making 0 only to vary .
It is thus shown that dt -f._ die c ='n fcos 0 .
-dq .
sin 0)rwdtdm.\ dt dt)d dt It is thence shown , by taking the moments about AB , and applying D'Alembert 's principle , that d 20 + ( -020 in2 do P " Fay ( t+ 2q ) Jin2 OdO-w dt / sin 0 .
cos Od0= Fa\dt2 dt+ CrS ' the integrals applying to 0 only , and between the limits O and 27r ; i. e. to all the particles of the disc simultaneously and independently of r or t. From this is obtained the result = 4WFg2.sin2 ( / tW being the weight of the disc .
This value being periodical , and ranging between the limits O and the maximunm 4Fa2 , shows that the disc makes oscillations which are of less extent and duration , as the spinning of the disc is more rapid ; i. e. as w2 is made greater compared with W ; and thus if F denotes a small weight ( such as is usually supplied with the apparatus by the makers ) , the extent of the oscillation becomes insensible .
This formula , applied to the apparatus with which the experiments were made , gives the theoretical maximum of q about 18 minutes of a degree .
It is evident that when F represents a weight , it should be replaced in the differential equation by F cos q , .
but the result practically coincides with that actually obtained when F is not excessive .
That these oscillations must exist will be evident , when it is considered that the gyroscope , with the weight attached and the disc not spinning , becomes an ordinary pendulum : the effect of the spinning being to disturb its oscillations , and to lessen their extent to an unlimited amount , whenever the spinning of the disc is sufficiently rapid .
The preceding investigations , as well as the experiments , show that whenever a force is applied to the axis of a revolving disc , more or less of the momentum due to this force is converted into a moinentum of rotation parallel to a plane which is perpendicular to that in which the force acts .

