1888 .
] On Structures found in Hie Skull of Birds .
397 selves respectively dorsad and ventrad , forming two horizontal scrolls , which become simpler and simpler , finally being reduced to a single narrow horizontal plate , which is continued as far forwards as a small arterial foramen in the lateral ethmoidal cartilage at the junction of its 3rd and 4th portions .
In addition to these , which may be called the turbinals proper , the 5th anterior ( free ) portion of the lateral ethmoidal cartilage sends inwards for a short distance a narrow horizontal shelf-like process ( fig. 3 , sect. 5 ) , beginning immediately caudad of the nostril , and nearly as far back as the junction of the lateral ethmoids with the mesethmoid .
On each side of the ventral edge of the mesethmoid , in the vomerine region is a slender , free rod of cartilage , shaded dark in fig. 2 , imbedded in connective tissue , and lying parallel with , and either immediately above or slightly laterad of , the dorsal edge of the vomer .
It is about 10 mm. long , and about 014 mm. in diameter .
This is obviously the vestigial cartilage of Jacobson 's organ , figured but not described in " Ostrich Skull " ( Plate 10 , fig. 14 ) , described in " Skull of Bird , " Plate 2 ( p. 109 , Note ) : called upper labial in Snake ( Plate 30 , fig. 2 ) , and nasal floor in Lizard ( Plate 44 , figs. 3 and 4 ) .
III .
" On Remnants or Vestiges of Amphibian and Reptilian Structures found in the Skull of Birds , both Carinatae and Ratitae .
" By W. K. Parker , F.R.S. Received February 9 , 1888 .
One of the most remarkable structures found in the skull of certain Amniota or higher Vertebrata\#151 ; Reptiles and Mammals , is the so-called " Jacobson 's organ .
" A pair of these curious gland-like bodies , each carefully placed in its own special capsule , may be seen in Serpents , Lizards , and Mammals ; but they are not present in Tortoises , Crocodiles or Birds , as far as our present knowledge goes .
Rathke , in his work on the Snake 's Skull , spoke of the " nasal glands and their capsules , " and for a long while this term made them to be confused with the nasal glands of birds , which have nothing whatever to do with " Jacobson 's organs .
" These structures are largest in Serpents , Lizards , and Monotremes , next in order come the Marsupials , Edentates , and Insectivores , then the Mammalia generally , including Man himself , in whom they appear for a time , and then vanish away.* These structures lie just above the anterior incisive foramina .
I * See Kolliker , 'XJeber die Jacobson'schen Organ des Menscben , ' Leipzig , 1877 .
.-5 ; a 398 Prof. W.K. Parker .
Amphibian and Reptilian [ Fcib .
23 , need not now state anything further with regard to them , as I have already given in my papers on the Skull of the Snake , the Lizard , the Edentata , and Insectivorous Mammalia , numerous figures and descriptions of them .
I must , bowt .
eat one or two facts ; in the Snake and Lizard these gland-like bodies lie each in a little dish , formed by the vomer of that side , covered in by another vomerine bone\#151 ; the septomaxillary .
They are also protected at the opening of the capsule by a pedate tract of cartilage , derived from the ali-nasal fold , which , in the Snake , frequently becomes detached from its root .
In low Mammalia there are several vomers , ten in maculatus , a low kind of Phalanger .
ISTow in most of the lower kinds of Mammalia , examined by me , a pair of small anterior vomers lie on the inside of Jacobson 's organs , but the capsule itself is formed by a peculiar fold of cartilage\#151 ; the recurrent cartilage , which closes in upon itself and unites its edges round the gland .
As a rule these " recurrent cartilages " retain their union with the alinasal folds , as in the Lizard ; in the Rabbit they are distinct , as in the .Serpent ( Howes ) .
Row in Birds these cartilages not unfrequently appear , but no " Jacobson 's organ " has been found with them .
The Birds whose vomerine region comes nearest to that of a low Mammal are the " Tuimicidaa , " or Hemipods , and the great group of the Passerine birds ( Coracomorphae , or JEgithognatlite of Huxley ) .
It is not uncommon for the ox-faced vomer of these birds to be formed of two pairs of bony centres , and these become not only fused together , but actually grafted upon the floor of the cartilaginous \#166 ; nasal capsule , in the same manner as is common in the lower kinds of Mammalia .
Row I find remnants of the cartilaginous capsule of Jacobson 's organs , not only in the Hemipods and in the lower Reotropical Passerines ( Homorw , Synallaxis , A but also in some of the highest of the singing-birds , namely , the Wren ( dytes ) , and also in some of the Woodpeckt\gt ; rs ( Picidse ) , outside the Passerine order .
In my paper on the " Skull of the Ostrich Tribe " ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1866 , Plate 10 , fig. 14 , a.i.t. ) , I figured and described , did not understand , a peculiar cartilage perched right and left upon the large vomer of the Rhea .
I have been for a long time satisfied that this also is one of the vomerine or Jacobson 's cartilages , and this view is corroborated , and to my mind proved , by what my son has found in the palate of the Apteryx .
^ 1 Row if my son 's figure* of the transversely-vertical section through , these cartilages and the crura of the vomer in the Apteryx , be com-# In the Paper preoeding this , .v.s-i 1888 .
' ] Structures found in the Skull'of Birds .
399 pared with various figures in my Memoirs on the Mammalian Skull ( Parts i , 2 , and 3 , 'Phil .
Trans. ' ) , it will be seen that it so nearly corresponds with sections of the skull of the Pig , the Edentata , and the Insectivor , mP/ those taken just behind Jacobson 's organ , that withont explanation it would be impossible to tell which figure belonged to the Bird , and which " to the Mammal .
In the Fowl , the Duck , and other Precocial birds , the embryo pf the eighth day of incubation is in the Amphibian stage ; then , the web goes beyond the toes , on the foot , whilst the rudimentary wing shows clearly a paddle with three digits in it , the first shortest , and the third nob pinch shorter than the second .
Very soon , however , after this , the first and second digits acquire a claw .
Thus the Reptilian stage has been attained ; for I know of no existing Amphibian with claws , except the Cape Nailed Toad ( ) .
Before I had ever offered any of my Morphological Papers to the Royal Society , I had stumbled upon a part in the development of the skull in the chick , the importance of which is to me much greater now than ever .
Since that time , besides working out the development of the skull in many types of Birds , all the Ratitae except the Apteryx , and in family after family of the Carinatee , I have had the opportunity to work it out in all the main types of existing Reptiles ; the result is to me very remarkable .
In all the Ichthyopsida , except the cartilaginous Fishes\#151 ; Marsipo-branchs and Elasmobranchs ( Hag , Lamprey , Shark , Skate ) , the base of the skull is supported by a long splint-bone ; the nature of which had been completely misunderstood by the old school of anatomists , but which was put into its right category by our great Reformer , Professor Huxley , and called by him " parasphenoid .
" This great superficial basi-cranial beam is largest in those Ganoids that are half Selachian\#151 ; the Sturgeons and their allies : but it is very large in the other ( Holostean ) Ganoids , in the Teleostei , Dipnoi , and all the Amphibians .
It is not part of the true skull , it is the subcutaneous part of a dermal scute , formed inside the enfolded skin of the mouth , and is a truly Teleological bone , developed for support to badly ossified endocrania , just as such skulls are supplemented by dermal bones\#151 ; " Der-mostoses " or " Parostoses , " above , and on each side .
This bone , well seen in the Frog , is dagger-shaped , and reaches from near the foramen magnum behind , to the -nasal capsule in front , the " guard " of the dagger supporting the auditory capsules .
Now in Serpents only the blade is present ; in Lizards only a very fine thread of bone representing the blade ; in some , e.g. , ( " Cyclodontidee " ) , even this is wanting .
It is not present in those very Amphibian forms the Chelonians ; ; and in Crocodiles , t can only finil 400 Prof. W. K. Parker .
Amphibian and Reptilian [ Feb. 23 , a small remnant of the " guard " right and left , or two " basitemporal " plates , soon buried np by the huge pterygoid .
In all birds they are large , as large as in Frogs and Toads ; this is equally true of the Dinornis and of the smallest Hummingbird .
There is a tendency to break up into lesser bony parts ; thus for a day or two in the chick there are two " basitemporal " and one rostral " centre ; but in several species of the Ranidae , e.g. , the Bullfrog among others , the point of the dagger-shaped bone is separately ossified , and remains distinct .
In the Paradoxical Frog ( Pseudis para there is no " handle " to the dagger ; the same form of p is common among the water-birds , e.g. , Alca , Uria , This is an ossification which is the earliest to appear in skulls that take on any kind of ossification ; it is also the first bone to appear in an embryo bird , as in the larval Frog .
These facts , and many others that I could mention , make it evident that in seeking for a clue to the uprise of the Feathered Fowl , we may leave out of immediate consideration all the existing types of Reptilia : ancient Amphibians , or Reptiles just rising out of Amphibian lowliness , are the forms that alone will help us in this search .
We do get some light upon the Reptilian relationship of Birds , but it is at best a scattered light ; the head of a bird is like that of the Ichthyosaurus , in its great facial elongation , the neck- and limb-regions of a Bird are those of a Plesiosaurus , whilst the hips and legs are like those of the " Ornithoscelida .
" Scarcely any Urodeles , and only a few of the Anura , show any special elongation of the " intertrabecula " or pre-nasal rostral cartilage ; this must have been very long in the Ichthyosauri as in the Selachians , and as in the embryos of all Birds .
In the Tadpole , with its oral aperture in front of the head , the quadrate cartilage or suspensorium of the lower jaw is parallel with the fore part of the basis-cranii , or trabeculce .
During transformation the quadrate hinge gradually gets further and further back until , in the Bull-frog , it is beneath the neck , close to the shoulder .
The pterygo-palatine arcade , which was a mere connecting band between the quadrate and the trabecula , becomes the long palato-ptery-goid arch or arcade , and the fore part of it is tri-radiate , and has received a term for each ray .
Thus the suspensorial part or pedicle is the ethmo-palatine , the anterior free spike the pre-palatine , and the hinder part which runs into the pterygoid is the post-palatine .
The anterior part of the pterygo-palatine arcade is distinct from the pterygoid in the Salamanders and their allies\#151 ; Urodeles\#151 ; and " the pterygoid in them is an outgrowth of the quadrate which grows 1888 .
] Structures found in the Skull of Birds .
forwards towards the palatine , but does not coalosco with it , except in Ranodon sibiricus.* u This endoskeletal cartilaginous palatine , with its peduncle and fore and hind ray or crus , appears in several kinds of birds , in addition to their nwmal parosteal palatine\#151 ; a mere membrane bone , as in Reptiles and Mammals .
This vestige or remnant remains in the adult ; is of no apparent use , and occurs in the Families in the oddest way ; sometimes , how-fever , it is present in all the members of some particular Family-group , as for instance in the Musophagidse or plantain-eaters ( , Schizorhis , and Gorythaix').+ My own later researches show it well in the Oil Bird caripensis ) and in the Green Tody ( ) ; but it is well developed in Scythrops ( see ' Linn. Soc. Trans. , ' ser. 2 ( Zool. ) , vol. 1 , plate 23 , figs. 4 and 3 , o.w. ) In that nearly extinct Neotropical type , Steatornis , this curious partly ossified remnant has the three crura , all well marked , and their morphological meaning is evident ; albeit the whole piece is so small and feeble that it can serve no purpose in the solid palate of that remarkable bird .
To show how unexpectedly this remnant exists , and does not exist , I will give a list of the Birds in which it has been found in a segmented state as a distinct bony element of the face ; it often shows itself as a mere process of the ecto-ethmoid : I do not include those birds in the list .
Motacilla yarrelli 1 MotaoinidsB .
Budytes rayi J Todus viridis .
Todidae .
Steatornis caripensis .
Steatornidse .
Schizorhis 'I Musophaga \gt ; Musophagidse .
Gorythaix J Licholophus .
Dicholophidae .
Procellaria Prion Thalassidroma Diomedea , Sfc .
Lams , var .
spec .
Laridee .
Tachypetes .
Tachypetidae . .
Another more partial remnant is seen in the Coracomorphee or Passerine birds generally , which together make up nearly half the number of known birds .
In my paper " On the Skull of the Urodeles " ( ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1877 , * See Wiedersheim , ' Kopfakelet der Urodelen , ' Leipzig , 1877 , Plate 5 , figs. 69 , 70 .
t See Reinhardt , ' Om en liidtil ukjendt Knogle i Hovedskallen hos Turakoeme { Musophagides , Sunder .
) ' Copenhagen , 1871 , Plate 7 .
\gt ; Procellaridro .
402 .
' Presents .
[ Feb. 23 , plate 24 , figs. 1-3 ) , I showed that the " post-palatine " tract of cartil-lage was developed as a distinct nucleus in the Axolotl ( ) .
That distinct nucleus representing the post-palatine region of the Frog 's skull also re-appears in the Crow , in the Sparrow , and in all the Passerines , as far as I have been able to work them out .
It lies outside the hinder part of the normal parosteal palatine bone , becomes a solid ear-shaped tract of hyaline cartilage , acquires its own osseous ( endosteal ) centre , and this , when ossified , coalesces with the normal palatine bone .
: The only Reptile in which I have discovered any distinct trace of the endosheletalpalatine is the Green Turtle ; it is very small ( see my paper in the " Challenger Reports , " vol. 1 , part 5 , pi .
12 , figs. 9 , 9a , 2b : e.p.a. ' ) .
\lt ; These are not all , or nearly all the vestigial structures that are familiar to me in the Bird 's skulls\#151 ; to say nothing of the skeleton generally ; but they are sufficient , I think , to satisfy any reasonable person that Birds arose , by secular transformation , either from the lowest and most ancient of the true Reptiles , or equally with Reptiles from archaic Amphibia , low in structure , but full of potential excel--lence , and ready , pro re nata , to become Reptile , Bird , or even Mammal , -1 as the case might be .
For many years I have been endeavouring to gather up the fragments of morphology that nothing should be lost ; I am satisfied that these lingering but practically useless structures will be found to be very difficult of deglutition to anyone who believes that the Birds that now exist wei'e created in their present form and condition.* Presents , February 23 , 1888 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circular .
Yol .
VII .
Ho. 62 .
4fco .
Baltimore 1888 .
The University .
Bordeaux:\#151 ; Societe de Medecine et de Chirurgie ; 8vo .
Bordeaux 1887 .
The Society .
Societe des Sciences Physiques et Naturelles .
Memoires .
Tomes II-III .
8vo .
Paris 1886 ; Observations Pluviometriques et Thermometriques faites dans le Departement de la Gironde de Juin 1885 a My 1886 .
8vo .
Bordeaux 1886 .
The Society .
Cardiff:-\#151 ; Naturalists'Society .
Transactions .
Vol. XIX .
Parti .
8vo .
Cardiff 1887 .
The Society .
, .
' \lt ; .
\#166 ; ' r .
1 ? .
r % : " ' f * I have only referred to a few of the memoirs that contain the figures and descriptions of the parts referred to in this paper .
They are , however , well known , and are mainly in the 4 Transactions ' of the Royal , Linnaean , and Zoological Societies . . .
v

