438 Mr. II .
Mallet on Volcanic Energy .
[ June 20 , produces no increase in the number of the woody wedges , hut that each one of the latter enlarges hy successive additions to its peripheral portions of new laminae , which latter partly fill up the increasing area of the en-larging circle , and partly encroach upon the primary medullary rays , as represented in my figure 17 , in addition to some inteistitial giowth .
We thus learn that as the ligneous cylinder of a Calamite increased in age and size it gradually exhibited less and less of the Calamitean peculiarities seen in young stems ; its external portions assumed a generalized , unsulcated form , which recurs with remarkable uniformity in several otherwise different plants of the Coal-measures .
Amongst the Burntisland fossils sent to me hy Mr. Grieve , I find two very curious stems , probably of the same general nature as Zygopteris .
Both have a dense outer cortical layer , with vascular bundles in the interior .
In the simpler of these plants the transverse section of this bundle is crescentic ; but in the concave border of the crescent are two small projecting capes dividing it into three minor bays ( fig. 2 ) .
In the other the vascular axis is a double one , lodged in a somewhat elliptical stem : one of these is a simple crescent , the concavity of which is directed inwards ; the other has a very elegant transverse section ( fig. 1 ) .
It is shaped like a dumb-bell , one head of which rests within the concavity of the crescentic bundle , and the other turns in the opposite direction ; at each of these two extremities the margin of the dumb-bell is excavated into a small bay , as if a vertical canal had existed at each point ; but these seem to have been merely columns of cellular tissue encroaching upon the rounded outline of the vascular structures .
I propose provisionally to recognize these two forms under the generic name of Arpexylon .
Fig. 1 .
Arpexylon duplex .
Fig. 2 .
Arpexylon simplex .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 3 represents a stem or petiole in which the section of the vascular bundle presents the form of a chair or seat , and to which I propose to assign the name Edraxylon .
This form exhibits numerous modifications of the pattern represented in the outline down to a single central vascular bundle .
It may prove to belong to Dictyoxylon Oldhamium* VII .
" Volcanic Energy : an attempt to devclope its true Origin and Cosmical Relations .
" By Robert Mallet , E.R.S. Received May 13 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) The author passes in brief review the principal theories which in modern times have been proposed to account for volcanic activity .
1872 .
] Mr. R. Mallet Volcanic Energy .
The chemical theory , which owed its partial acceptance chiefly to the fame of Davy , may be dismissed , as all known facts fend to show that the chemical energies of the materials of our globe were almost wholly exhausted prior to the consolidation of its surface .
The mechanical theory , which finds in a nucleus still in a state of liquid fusion a store of heat and of lava \amp ; c. , is only tenable on the admission of a very thin solid crust ; and even through a crust of but 30 miles thick it is difficult to see how surface-water is to gain access to the fused nucleus , yet without water there can be no volcano .
More recent investigation on the part of mathematicians has been supposed to prove that the earth 's crust is not thin .
Attaching little value to the calculations as to this based on precession , the author yet concludes , on other grounds , that the solid crust is probably of great thickness , and that , although there is evidence of a nucleus much hotter than the crust , there is no certainty that any part of it remains liquid ; but if so , it is in any case too deep to render it conceivable that surface-water should make its way down to it .
The results of geological speculation and of physico-mathematical reasoning thus oppose each other , so that some source of volcanic heat closer to the surface remains to be sought .
The hypothesis to supply this , proposed by Hopkins and adopted by some , viz. of isolated subterranean lakes of liquid matter in fusion at no great depth from the surface remaining fused for ages , surrounded by colder and solid rock , and with ( by hypothesis ) access of surface-water , the author views as feeble and unsustainable .
A source , then , for volcanic heat remains still to be found ; and if found under conditions admitting to it water , especially of the sea , all known phenomena of volcanic action on our earth 's surface are explicable .
The author points out various relations and points of connexion between volcanic phenomena , seismic phenomena , and the lines of mountain elevation , which sufficiently indicate that they are all due to the play of one set of cosmical forces , though different in degree of energy , which has even constantly decaying with time .
He traces the ways in which the contraction of our globe has been met , rom the period of its original fluidity to the present state : first , by de-rmation of the spheroid , forming generally the ocean-basins and the int * a*terwart^s ky the foldings over and elevations of the thickened crust 0 mountain-ranges \amp ; c. ; and , lastly , by the mechanism , which he points as giving rise to volcanic action .
The theory of mountain-elevation proposed by C. Prevost was the only true one\#151 ; that which ascribes this to angential pressures propagated through a solid crust of sufficient thick-- 0 transmit them , those pressures being produced by the relative rate contraction of the nucleus and of the crust ; the former being at the a er temperature , and having a higher coefficient of contraction for equal ?
eat\gt ; tends to shrink away from beneath the crust , leaving the latter are la lie unsupported .
This , which during a much more rapid rate of Mr. R. Mallet on Volcanic Energy .
[ June 20 , cooling from higher temperature of the whole globe and from a thinner crust gave rise in former epochs to mountain-elevation , in the present state of things gives rise to volcanic heat .
By the application of a theorem of Lagrange , the author proves that the earth 's solid crust , however great may be its thickness , and even if of materials far more cohesive and rigid than those of which we must suppose it to consist , must , it even to a very small extent left unsupported by the shrinking away of the nucleus , crush up in places by its own gravity and by the attraction of the nucleus .
This is actually going on , and in this partial crushing , at places or depths dependent on the material , and on conditions pointed out , the author discovers the true cause of volcanic heat .
As the solid crust sinks together to follow down after the shrinking nucleus , the work expended in mutual crushing and dislocation of its parts is transformed into heat , by which , at the places where the crushing sufficiently takes place , the material of the rock so crushed and of that adjacent to it are heated , even to fusion .
Ihe access of water to such points determines volcanic eruption .
Volcanic heat , therefore , is one result of the secular cooling of a teraqueous globe subject to gravitation , and needs no strange or gratuitous hypothesis as to its origin .
In order to test the validity of this view by contact with known facts , the author gives in detail two important series of experiments completed by him:\#151 ; the one on the actual amount of heat capable of being developed by the crushing of sixteen different species of rocks , chosen so as to be representative of the whole series of known rock formations from Oolites down to the hardest crystalline rocks ; the other , on the coefficients of total contraction between fusion and solidification at existing mean temperature of the atmosphere of basic and acid slags , analogous to melted rocks .
The latter experiments were conducted on a very large scale , and the author points out the great errors of preceding experimenters , Bischoffand others , as to these coefficients .
By the aid of these experimental data , he is enabled to test the theory produced when compared with such facts as we possess as to the rate of present cooling of our globe , and the total annual amount of volcanic action taking place upon its surface and within its crust .
He shows , by estimates which allow an ample margin to the best data we possess as to the total annual vulcanicity of all sorts of our globe at present , that less than one fourth of the total heat at present annually l08* " by our globe is upon his theory sufficient to account for it ; so that the secular cooling , small as it is , now going on is a sufficient inobile\gt ; leaving the greater portion still to be dissipated by radiation .
The author then brings his views into contact with various known facts of vulcauology and seismology , showing their accordance .
He also shows that to the heat developed by partial tangential thrusts within the solid crust are due those perturbations of hypogeal incrcmeu 0 1872 .
] On some Properties of Anhydrous Liquefied .
441 temperature which Hopkins has shown cannot be referred to a cooling nucleus and to differences of conductivity alone .
He further shows that this view of the origin of volcanic heat is independent of any particular thickness being assigned to the earth 's solid crust , or to whether there be at present a liquid fused nucleus , all that is necessary being a hotter nucleus than crust , so that the rate of contraction is greater for the former than the latter .
The author then points out that , as the same play of tangential pressures has elevated the mountain-chains in past epochs , the nature of the forces employed sets a limit to the height of mountain possible of the materials of our globe .
That volcanic action due to the same class of forces was more energetic in past time , and is not a uniform but a decaying energy now .
Lastly , he brings his views into relation with vulcanicity produced in like manner in other planets , or in our own satellite , and shows that it supplies an adequate solution of the singular and so far unexplained fact that the elevations upon our moon 's surface , and the evidences of former volcanic activity , are upon a scale so vast when compared with those upon our globe .
Finally , he submits that if his view will account for all the known facts , leaving none inexplicable , and presenting no irreconcilable conditions or necessary deductions , then it should be accepted as a true picture of nature .
Till .
ff On some Properties of Anhydrous Liquefied Ammonia .
" By G. Gore , F.R.S. Received May 15 , 1872 .
( Abstract .
) This investigation was made for the purpose of ascertaining the general solvent properties of the liquid , and to detect any manifest chemical reactions between it and various substances .
The method employed was precisely similar to that used in the examination of liquid cyanogen ( see roc .
Roy .
Soc. No. 131 , 1871 ) , the tubes being charged with anhydrous c loride of calcium previously saturated with the ammonia vapour .
Two hundred and fifty substances were submitted to contact with the iquid , and the general results in each case recorded .
The only elementary *** B^ances soluble in it were the alkali-metals proper , also iodine ( bromine tried ) , sulphur , and phosphorus .
The more frequently soluble in* organic salts were nitrates , chlorides , bromides , and iodides ; whilst oxides , .
rjf68 ' carb'nates , sulphides , and sulphates were very generally in- .
e ' Many saline substances , especially certain chlorides , bromides , * , ?
8 ' ant^ stdphates , absorbed ammonia freely , and swelled greatly , but did Bsolve .
The behaviour of the chlorides of mercury was peculiar , arums compounds of carbon were submitted to the action of the solu-i , 0 P'tassium in the liquefied vapour ; the free potassium disappeared , Ro elementary carbon was liberated .

