1874 .
j On the Blood-corpuscles of Mammalia .
243 of didymium acetate , which decomposes with separation of a basic salt , the lines thickened on heating .
Thermo-chemical Experiments .
Kegnauld ( Institufc , 1864 ; Jahresbericht , 1864 , p. 99 ) has shown that on diluting a saturated solution of a salt , as a rule there is an absorption of heat ; but in one or two cases he noticed that heat was evolved .
The change in colour that takes place on the dilution of saturated solutions of cobalt iodide , cupric chloride , bromide , and acetate is very remarkable .
There is every likelihood that this phenomenon is due in each case to the formation of a liquid hydrate .
It is impossible of belief that accompanving such a circumstance there should be no measurable development of heat ; and the author 's experiments have proved that in the above cases , at any rate , the heat disengaged is very considerable\#151 ; amounting , for instance , on the part of cupric chloride , at least to about 2565 units when 1 gram molecule of the crystalline salt is dissolved in its minimum of water at 16 ' C. and brought into contact with sufficient to make the addition of 40 Aq .
These numbers only roughly approximate to the truth .
On diluting a solution of cobalt iodide till the red colour appears , the thermal effect must be much greater , as not only does it register several degrees on an ordinary thermometer , but it may be perceived by the hand .
The conclusions indicated by these results are obvious , but it is beyond the scope of this paper to refer to them .
The writer hopes before long to complete his experiments with the view of having them communicated to the Royal Society .
II .
" Note on the Intracellular Development of Blood-corpuscles in Mammalia .
" By Edward Albert Schafer .
Communicated by Dr. Siiarpey , V.P.R.S. Received January 22 , 1874 .
If the subcutaneous connective tissue of the new-born rat* is examined under the microscope in an indifferent fluid , it is found to consist chiefly of an almost homogeneous hyaline ground-substance , which is traversed by a few wavy fibres , and has a considerable number of exceed-ingly delicate , more or less flattened cells scattered throughout the tissue .
The cells here spoken of are of course the connective-tissue corpuscles .
They are not much branched as a rule ( at any rate their branches do not extend far from the body of the corpuscle ) , and they are mainly distinguished by the extraordinary amount of vacuolation which they exhibit\#151 ; by which is meant the formation within the protoplasm of minute clear spherules , less refractive than that substance , and probably , therefore , spaces in it containing a watery fluid .
The nuclei , of which there is generally not more than one in each cell , are frequently obscured by the vacuoles , but , when visible , are seen to be round or oval in shape and * The animal employed was the white rat .
VOL. XXII .
u 244 On the Blood-corpuscles of Mammalia .
[ Mar. 19 , beautifully clear and homogeneous ; they commonly contain either one or two nucleoli .
It is from these cells that the blood-vessels of the tissue are formed , and within them , red , and perhaps also , white blood-corpuscles become developed .
Of the vacuolated cells above described some possess a distinct reddish tinge , either pretty evenly diffused over the whole corpuscle , or in one or more patches , not distinctly circumscribed , but fading off into the surrounding protoplasm .
Others contain either one , two , or a greater number of reddish globules , consisting apparently of haemoglobin .
These vary in size , from minute specks to spherules as large as , or even larger than , the red corpuscles of the adult : in cells which are apparently least developed it is common to find them of various sizes in the same cell ; whereas cells which are further advanced in development are not uncommonly crowded with haemoglobin-globules , tolerably equal in point of size , and differing from the adult corpuscle only in shape .
It is important to remark that there is , at no time , an indication of any structure within the globules resembling a nucleus : the nucleus of the cell also appears , up to this point at least , to undergo no change .
In fact the formation of the haemoglobin-globules reminds one rather of a deposit within the cell-substance such as occurs in developing fat-cells , the difference being that in the latter case the deposited globules eventually run together into one drop , whereas in the former they remain distinct as they increase in size and eventually take on the flattened form .
Before , however , this change occurs in the haemoglobin-globules , the cells containing them become lengthened , and are soon found each to contain a cavity , within which the globules now lie .
This cavity is probably formed by a coalescence of the vacuoles of the cell , or , wha^ amounts to the same thing , by the enlargement of one vacuole and the absorption of the rest into it .
The cell now comes to resemble a segment of a capillary , but with pointed and closed extremities ; it is of an elongated fusiform shape , and consists of a hyaline protoplasmic wall ( in which the nucleus is imbedded ) enclosing blood-corpuscles in a fluid\#151 ; blood , in fact .
Two or more such cells may become united at their ends , a communication being established between their cavities ; indeed , by aid of branches sent out from the sides a number of cells may unite to form a complete plexus of capillary vessels containing blood , and situate at a considerable distance in the tissue from any vessels in which blood is circulating .
Eventually , however , these last become united with the newly developed capillaries , and the blood contained in the latter thus gets into the general circulation .
, . .
" With regard to the mode of junction of the capillary-forming cells with one another , and with processes from preexisting capillaries , it has seem to me to occur most commonly , not by a growing together of their ex treme points , as commonly described , but rather by an overlapping an coaptation of their fusiform ends , which , at first solid , become su se1874 .
] On Magnets and Electric Conductors .
quently hollowed by an extension into them of the cavity of the cell or capillary , the partition between the two being finally absorbed .
The best preparations for demonstrating the facts above described are obtained from the subcutaneous tissue of the upper part of the fore limb , and from that under the skin of the back\#151 ; regions in which , in the adult rat , this tissue becomes almost entirely converted into fat .
Even in the new-born animal some portions have already undergone this change ; and it is principally in the neighbourhood of such patches that the luema-poietic cells are met with .
It is only when the young rats are not more than a few days old that the formation of blood-vessels is preceded by a development of blood-corpuscles within the same cells as form the vessels : in such other animals as I have hitherto examined this phenomenon seems to occur only whilst still in the foetal state .
The immature condition in which the young of the rat are brought forth is sufficient to account for this difference .
The observations here recorded as to the intracellular development of blood-corpuscles are in many respects in accordance with what has already been described by others as occurring in the area and other parts of the embryo chick .
It has not , however , appeared desirable to enter into the literature of the subject in this brief notice .
III .
\lt ; c On the Attractions of Magnets and Electric Conductors/ * By George Gore , F.R.S. Received January 27 , 1874 .
Being desirous of ascertaining whether , in the case of two parallel wires conveying electric currents , the attractions and repulsions were between the currents themselves or the substances conveying them , and believing this question had not been previously settled , I made the following experiment:\#151 ; I passed a powerful voltaic current through the thick copper wire of a large electromagnet , and then divided it equally between two vertical pieces of thin platinum wire of equal diameter and length ( about six or seven centimetres ) , so as to make them equally white-hot , the two wires being attached to two horizontal cross wires of copper .
On approaching the two vertical wires symmetrically towards the vertical face of one pole of the horizontally placed magnet , and at equal distances from it , so that the two downward currents in them might be equally acted upon by the downward and upward portions respectively of the currents which circulated round the magnet-pole , the one was strongly bent towards and the other from the pole , as was , of course , expected ; 'but not the least sign of alteration of relative temperature of the two wires could be perceived , thereby proving that not even a small proportion of the current was repulsed from the repelled wire or drawn into the attracted one , as would have occurred had the attraction and repulsion taken place , even to a moderate degree , between the currents

