1881 .
] 7'/ tc Influence of Stress , fyc .
April 28 , 1881 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read * I. " The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Action ot Physical Forces .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received April 5 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) Part I.\#151 ; Elasticity .
" Young 's Modulus .
" The values of " Young 's modulus " were determined for several metals by a method devised by Sir W. Thomson .
According to this method wires of the same material and diameter are suspended m pairs about an inch apart from each other , and are attached by one extremity of each to the same support ; the other extremities being fastened in the one case to a scale-pan , and in the other to the centre of a bar of wood or metal carrying constant equal weights at each end : the latter wire is provided with a scale and the former with an index of some sort , which being level with and close to the scale , serves to measure any alteration of length produced by weights placed in the pan .
In these particular experiments the wires were about thirty feet in length ; a scale divided into half-millimetres and a vernier reading to _i_th of a millimetre attached respectively to the two wires , served to measure the temporary alterations of length produced by loading or unloading .
The vernier was forked so that , though capable of free up and down motion , it could not readily be dislodged sideways , and by using a compound microscope an alteration = yAoH1 of a millimetre in the length of the wire could be estimated .
A large number of experiments with different loads were made , and after a great many unsuccessful attempts to account for certain discrepancies which could not be explained away as errors of observation , the following facts were elicited :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) After a wire has suffered permanent extension , the temporary elongation which can be produced by any load becomes less as the Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of Stress [ Apr. 28 , interval between the period of permanent extension and that of applying the load becomes greater .
( 2 .
) This increase of elasticity is greater in proportion for large loads than for small ones .
( 3 .
) The increase of elasticity takes place whether the wire be allowed to remain loaded or unloaded between the period of permanent extension and that of the testing for the elasticity .
( 4 .
) The rate of increase of elasticity varies considerably with different metals ; with some the maximum elasticity is apparently attained in a few minutes , and with others not till some days have elapsed , iron and steel being in this last respect very remarkable .
( 5 .
) The elasticity can also be increased by heavily loading and unloading several times , the rate of increase diminishing with each loading and unloading .
( 6 .
) A departure from " Hooke 's law " more or less decided , always attends recent permanent extension even when the weights employed to test the elasticity do not exceed one-tenth of the breaking weight .
( 7 .
) This departure is diminished very noticeably in the case of iron , and much less so in the case of other metals , by allowing the wire to rest for some time either loaded or unloaded ; it is also diminished by repeated loading and unloading .
With aluminium and zinc both the maximum temporary increase of length caused by putting on weight , and the recovery on the removal of the load are attained only after several hours , if the weights employed be not very small .
With tin and lead the loads employed were so small , in order to avoid permanent set , that the values of " Young 's modulus " obtained for these metals cannot be relied on within 2 per cent. A small though decided departure from " Hooke 's law " was found in all cases , and the experiments abundantly proved that this law can only hold good practically for much smaller loads than are usually employed in determining the value of " Young 's modulus " from the method of static extension .
A discussion of Wertheim's* experiments on elasticity will be found in the paper , and it is there pointed out that a principal cause of the differences of the values of " Young 's modulus , " obtained by him from the method of static extension , and from longitudinal or transverse vibrations , is to be found in his manner of experimenting according to the first of these methods .
The effect of permanent extension on the value of " Young 's modulus , " was tried according to the direct method for iron and copper , and indirectly for most of the metals .
.From both the direct and indirect methods results were obtained which showed:\#151 ; * " Ann. de Chem. et Plrys .
, " tom .
xii , 1844 .
1881 .
] and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
43 ( 1 .
) That , in all metals , provided the wire has not been kept heavily loaded for some time before testing , permanent extension produces decrease of elasticity , if the strain be not carried beyond a certain limit .
( 2 .
) That , if the extension be carried beyond the above-mentioned limit , further permanent increase of length causes increase of elasticity .
( 3 .
) That , in the case of iron , heavy loading for some time so increases the elasticity that , even when the extension would have caused diminution of elasticity without such continued ' loading , the latter will , if sufficient time be allowed , change this diminution into an increase ; in the case of copper this is not so .
It was also observed that , with iron which has been very heavily loaded for some time , the ratio of the temporary elongation to the load producing it becomes less as the load employed becomes greater , until a certain limit , depending upon the extent of the previous heavy loading , has been reached ; whereas , with the other metals , and with iron which has suffered permanent extension without allowing the load producing the extension to remain for any appreciable time on the wire , the elongation increases in a , greater proportion than the load .
The behaviour of iron in this respect , as well as the fact that this metal does not , until many hours have elapsed , attain its maximum elasticity , after having undergone permanent elongation , is probably to be attributed to the great coercive force of the metal .
To a similar cause may also be assigned the well-known increase of portative power of a magnet which can be produced by gradual loading ; and the great difference between the tenacity of iron when loaded by slow degrees , and when loaded quickly.* One of the above-mentioned indirect methods of determining the effect of permanent extension on the elasticity consisted in combining torsion with traction .
The wire to be examined , some 95 centims. in length , passed through a small hole in a stout table , and was clamped at its upper extremity into a brass block , the latter resting on the table , and being sufficiently secured by a heavy weight placed on the top of it .
Near the lower extremity , which was looped to receive a scale-pan , was clamped a second small brass block , to one end of which was attached a light mirror ; the latter used in connexion with a scale and lamp enabled the observer to detect very small changes of torsion .
The wire having previously received a certain amount of permanent torsion was loaded and unloaded several times with different weights , and the amount of temporary twist or untwist produced thereby determined .
* See J. T. Bottomley 's experiments , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 29 , p. 221 .
Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of Stress [ Apr. 28 , The effect of suddenly chilling steel heated to a high temperature was found to be similar to that of excessive permanent extension of iron ; and in general , it was conclnded to he highly probable that whether the distance between the molecnles be increased by mechanical strain or by the strain cansed by sndden cooling , the elasticity in the direction of the line of separation of the molecnles diminishes to a minimum as the separation increases , and then begins to increase .
Moreover , it would appear from the results which will be described in the other parts of this paper , that most , if not all , the physical properties of a substance are affected in a similar manner by stress and strain ; whether these latter be the result of mechanical or of any physical agency .
Torsional Rigidity .
The torsional rigidity of the wires was determined by the method of vibrations .
The vibrators were similar to those employed by Sir W. Thomson in his experiments on the rigidity and viscosity of metals , * namely , thin cylinders of sheet brass , supported by a thin , flat , rectangular bar .
The wire to be tested passed perpendicularly through a hole in the middle of the bar , and was there soldered ; the other end of the wire was then soldered into a stout iron bar , firmly held in a vice attached to a rigid support .
Great difficulty was experienced in making good observations of the rigidity of zinc , tin , and lead , in consequence of their great viscosity .
Several experiments were made to test the effect of permanent torsion and permanent extension on the modulus of rigidity .
From these experiments was concluded:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the loss of rigidity produced by twisting or stretching a wire beyond the limits of elasticity is partly diminished by rest .
( 2 .
) That the loss is more sensible with large arcs of vibration than with small ones .
( 3 .
) That the influence of rest is more apparent in the case of large vibrations than in that of small ones .
( 4 .
) That continual vibrating through large arcs has a similar effect on the rigidity to that produced on the longitudinal elasticity by heavily loading and unloading .
And\#151 ; ( 5 .
) That in the case of hard steel the effect of vibrating through a large arc for several minutes makes temporarily the rigidity as determined from such vibrations greater than that determined from smaller vibrations .
From the values of the torsional rigidity and " Young 's modulus " were calculated the ratios of lateral contraction to elongation for the different metals , the formula used for this purpose being \#171 ; .= \#151 ; \#151 ; 1 , in 2r * " Proc. Boy .
Soc. , " vol. 14 , p. 289 .
1881 .
] and Strain on the Action of Physical Forces .
45 which e= " Young 's modulus , " r=rigidity , both in grams per square centimetre , and \lt ; r = the required ratio .
In the following table are given the values of e , r , and a for most of the annealed metals :\#151 ; Name of metal .
" Young 's modulus .
" e. Torsional rigidity .
r. Ratio of lateral contraction to elongation .
\lt ; ? .
Iron 1981x106 773 T x 106 .281 Platinum 1490 692-7 .076 German silver 1385 493-7 .354 Copper 1160 440-6 .315 Platinum-silver 1051 369-9 .420 Zinc 767 338 -4 T33 Silver 742 271 -8 .367 Aluminium 673 265-2 .269 Tin 277 120-9 T45 Lead 167 74 -0 .136 The mean value of for the different substanees employed in the annealed condition ='2515 , a number closely according with that assigned by Poisson from mathematical considerations , as the value of a for each .
The metals copper , platinum , aluminium , silver , and platinum-silver were obtained from Messrs. Johnson , Matthey , and Co. , as chemically pure , and the zinc , lead , and tin wires as being as pure as could be got from the ordinary process of distillation .
Experiments on the permanent alteration of density which can be produced by longitudinal traction proved , as the investigations oi Wertheim and Thomson have already shown , that such alteration is very slight .
In these particular experiments no change amounting to ^ per cent , was detected , though the wires were strained to breaking .
Certain calculations were made to verify Wertheim 's formula ex\#171 ; 7=a constant , where e= " Young 's modulus , " and \#171 ; =the mean distance between one molecule and another , and it was found that this formula was approximately true .
Moreover , the products of r and aJ were calculated and found to be approximately constant for the different metals .
The influence of an electric current and of magnetism on the torsional rigidity of metals was also investigated , and the following results arrived at:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The torsional rigidity of copper and iron is temporarily decreased by the passage of a powerful electric current , but is very little , if at all appreciably , altered by currents of moderate intensity .
( 2 .
) The torsional rigidity of iron is temporarily diminished to a small but perceptible extent by a high magnetising force .
Mr. W. K. Brooks .
[ Apr. 28 , ( 8 .
) The effects mentioned in ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are independent of any changes produced by the current in the temperature of the wire .
Finally , certain critical points are alluded to , there being at least two such for each metal , at which sudden changes take place in the ratio of the permanent extension produced by any load and the load itself .
The existence of the first of these critical points seems to prove beyond a doubt that , in all well-annealed metals , there is a true limit of elasticity , which is intimately connected with the elasticity of the substance , and it will appear from the investigations made in the other parts of this paper , that changes more or less profound take place in most , if not all , of the physical properties of the substance at these points .
II .
" Lucifer : a Study in Morphology/ ' By W. K. Brooks , Associate in Biology and Director of the Chesapeake Zoological Laboratory of the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , Md. , U.S.A. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received April 6 , 1881 .
( Abstract .
) Our knowledge of the life-history of this extremely interesting genus is very scanty , and the only published observations are contained in a short paper , without illustrations , in " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 24 , p. 132 , by Willemdes-Suhm .
The death of this naturalist , only a few months after his paper was written , put an end to his studies , which he had expressed a hope of finishing , and I therefore take pleasure in stating that I have been so fortunate as to procure the eggs of Lucifer , and to trace every stage of the metamorphosis , from the time the larva leaves the egg up to the mature male , by the actual moulting of isolated specimens in captivity ; and I have also been able to add a few observations upon its embryology .
The early stages of development are extremely interesting , since the segmentation is quite different from that of any arthropod egg which has been described .
The egg undergoes total regular segmentation ; there is a true central segmentation cavity , and during the early stages there is nothing to represent the yolk-pyramids of the ordinary crustacean egg .
When segmentation is somewhat advanced , the granular matter becomes restricted to one of the spherules ; this then pushes into the segmentation cavity , and appears to correspond to a single yolk-pyramid .
Its outer end splits off as a blastoderm cell ,

