336 Attempt to determine the Adia of Ethyl Oxide .
" An Attempt to determine the Adiabatic Relations of Ethyl Oxide .
" By E. P. Perman , D.Sc .
, W. Ramsay , Ph. D. F.R.S. , and J. Rose-Innes , M.A. , B.Sc , Received November 6 , \#151 ; Read December 10 , 1896 .
( Abstract .
) The wave-length of sound in gaseous and in liquid ethyl oxide ( sulphuric ether ) has been determined by the two first-mentioned of the authors , by means of Kundt 's method , between limits of temperature ranging from 100 ' C. to 200 ' C. , and of pressure ranging from 4000 mm. to 31,000 mm. of mercury , and of volume ranging from 2'6 c.c , per gram to 71 c.c. per gi'am .
Making nse of the same apparatus throughout , the results obtained are to be regarded as comparative , and , by careful determination of the pitch of the tone transmitted through the gas , it is probable they are approximately absolute .
The sections of the complete memoir deal with ( I ) a description of the apparatus employed , ( II ) the method of ascertaining the weights of ether used in each series of experiments , ( III ) determinations of the frequency of the vibrating rod , ( IV ) the calculations of the adiabatic elasticity and tables of the experimental results , and ( V ) a mathematical discussion of the results .
The last section is due to Mr. Rose-Innes .
As the theoretical results are of interest , a brief outline of them may be given here .
It will be remembered that one of the authors , in conjunction with Dr. Sydney Young , showed that for ether , and for some other liquids , a linear relation subsists between pressure and temperature , volume being kept constant , so that p = \amp ; T\#151 ; It has been found that a similar relation obtains between adiabatic elasticity and temperature , volume , as before , being kept constant ; so that , within limits of experimental error , where E stands for adiabatic elasticity , E g and h being functions of the volume only .
Between these two equations , we may eliminate T , and so express E as a linear function of .
p , volume being kept constant .
The coefficient of p in such an equation would be gib , and this fraction , on being calculated from the data available , proves to be nearly constant .
For working purposes it is assumed that g/ b may be treated as strictly constant , and Reaction* of certain Synthesised Proteid-likc Substances .
337 it is shown that this assumption does not introduce any serious error within the limits of volume considered .
We then imd , t poss.ble to integrate the resulting differential equation , and the complete pram-tive enables us to draw a set of adiabatic curves .
We Mievethat this is the first time adiabatic carves have been obtained for any substance except perfect gases . .
, , c A mathematical discussion is added as to what extent the eqnatio and E = gT-h gjl ) = constant , can n be considered as strictly true , and not merely approximate The experimental results for liquid ether form an appendix to the paper .
" The Chemical and Physiological Reactions ^ of certain Synthesised Proteid-like Substances .
Preliminary Communication .
" By John W. Pickering , D.Sc ( Loud .
) .
Communicated by Professor Halliburton , F.R.S. Received November 10\#151 ; Read December 10 , 1896 .
The experiments of Professor Grimaux , * made more than ten years ago .
have until recently attracted but little attention amongst English physiologists , although that investigator has synthesised a series of colloidal substances which , in their chemical characteristics , show striking similarities to proteids .
Working alone , and in collaboration with Professor Halliburton , + have shown that three of the substances synthesised , viz. , the \#171 ; Colloids amidobenzoic A and B , " formed by the interaction of phosphorus pentachloride and meta-amido-benzoic acid at 1-5 U , according to the details described in Grimaux 's papers , and the " colloide aspartique " formed by the passage of a current^ of dry gaseous ammonia over solid aspartic anhydride heated to 125 C. , not only give the leading chemical reactions of proteids , but when intravenously injected into dogs , cats , or pigmented rabbits , ca-.se extensive intravascular coagulation of the blood , in a manner indistinguishable from the physiological action of nucleo-proteids .
A hen injected into the veins of albino rabbits or into the vascular system * Grimaux , ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol.93 , p. 771,1881 ; ibid. , vol , 98 , p. 105 , 1884 ; ibid. , vol. 98 , p. 1434 and p. 1578 .
t Pickering,4 Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 14 , p. 341 , 1893 ; ' Comptes Rendus , vol. 120 , p. 1348 , 1895 ; 4 Physiol. Soc. Proc. , ' Feb. 16 , 1895 ( 'Journ .
Physiol. , ' vol. 17 ) ; ' Journ. ' Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , p. 54 , 1895 ; vol. 20 , p. 171 , 1S9G ; ibid. , vol. 20 , p. 310 ; Halliburton and Pickering , 4 Journ. Physiol. , ' vol. 18 , p. 285 , 1895 .

