397 Investigation of the Law of Burning of Modified Cordite .
By Major J. H. Mansell , Eoyal Artillery .
( Communicated by Sir A. Noble , F.R.S. Received November 29 , 1906 , \#151 ; Read February 14 , 1907 .
) ( Abstract .
) Some years ago Vieille first propounded the law of combustion by parallel surfaces for smokeless propellants .
This law has generally been accepted as correct .
Investigators have assumed that the relation is expressed by an equation of the form S = aPn , where S is the skin burnt in a given time under the average pressure P , a and nbeing constants for the given explosive .
The constants a and n have been obtained by a system of trial and error , testing the results obtained by calculation against the actual results obtained in a gun .
In the gun the space behind the projectile is treated as a closed vessel .
As the projectile moves down the bore the size of this vessel increases , and the increase in a given time under a given pressure depends on what allowance is made for loss of effective pressure due to friction .
The assumptions made as to frictional loss , combined with a hitherto unsuspected variation due to the form of the propellant , have led to wide differences in the values of a and n put forward .
In my experiments I used a closed vessel of constant capacity , the description and method of use of which are described in the complete paper .
The records obtained by this closed vessel enabled me to obtain , ( 1 ) the pressure density relation of M.D. cordite , and ( 2 ) the time rise of pressure at different densities of loading .
The first experiments were made with M.D. cordite in the cord form .
From the time rise of pressure I was able to calculate what cordite had been burnt in a given time under the average pressure over that interval which was given me on the curve .
The relation found to exist is expressed by an equation of the form S = aP + C , where a varies with the initial temperature of the cordite .
The constant C is thought to mean that below a pressure of about 0 ; 1 ton on the square inch true explosion does not take place , and combustion by parallel surfaces over the whole charge is not going on .
During this time the cordite is lit and burning slowly up to the point where true explosion begins .
398 Investigation of the Law of Burning of Modified Cordite .
Time-rises of pressure calculated from this formula show very close agreement with those actually obtained with cords .
Experiments were then made with the propellant in the tubular form .
The time rise of pressure was found not to agree with that given by calculation , using the above formula .
The rise at the beginning is much more rapid than would be expected from theory .
A comparison of the actual and theoretical curves and observation of certain phenomena connected with the burning of tubes in the air led to the belief that there is excess pressure inside the tube even when burning explosively .
Calculations were therefore made to determine the amount of this excess internal pressure on the assumption that the fundamental law , as found for cords , must still be true .
The result of these calculations is the advancement of the theory that in the burning of tubes there is a two-phase condition : ( 1 ) when excess internal pressure exists , and ( 2 ) when it disappears .
The .
amount of excess pressure depends on the size of the internal hole and length of the tube .
Calculating on this principle , the theoretical time-rise shows agreement with the actual .
By this theory one is also enabled to understand ballistic and other phenomena connected with the burning of tubes which are incapable of explanation on the assumption of a relation of the form S = \#171 ; Pn .
Experiments were then made with the propellant in the double tubular form , and the influence of excess internal pressure is shown to be more marked than with the tubular .
It is this form-influence on the time-rise which in part accounts for the great variation in formulas put forward by various investigators .
The results of this investigation have been applied to the practical case of the gun .
Having adopted certain frictional laws , the application with cords , with which we have most experience , has been found to hold over a wide range of varying conditions of loading and calibre .

