498 Mr. A. M , Worthington on the [ Jan. 18 III .
" A Second Paper on the Forms assumed by Drops of Liquids falling vertically on a Horizontal Plate/ ' By A. M. Worthington .
Communicated by B. Stewart , F.B.S. Received December 28 , 1876 .
In a previous paper* which I had the honour of submitting to the Society , a method was described by which the later stages of the oscillation had been seen .
I wish now to supplement that paper with an account of the earlier stages .
The experiments of the sequel were , by the kind permission of Professor Balfour Stewart , made this autumn in the Physical Laboratory at Owens College .
The arrangement that was found most successful for seeing the earlier * See ante , p. 261 .
1877 .
] Forms assumed by Drops of Liquids .
stages was one bj which the support was withdrawn from under a drop , so as to leave it free to fall , while at the same instant an electrical circuit was broken .
The apparatus is drawn in the accompanying fig. 1 .
A B is a wooden rod about 6 inches long , turning about a horizontal axis C C. When the rod is horizontal , a platinum wire D D , bound to the underside , rests with one end on a platinum wore E E E , formiug a bridge , while the other end dips into a mercury-trough F , so that , with the rod in this position , a current can pass from E to F , and so on through the coils of the electromagnet of the relay described in my previous paper .
The end B of the rod bears a little glass cup G made of the central part of a watch-glass , covered with an adherent coating of smoke , obtained by dipping the glass in paraffin-oil before smoking , on to which a drop of water or mercury can be lowered from the vertical tube H , so as to lie in the cup without adhering to it .
A smart fillip with the thumb knocks up the end A , and sends down the end B with the cup , thus removing the support of the drop , and , of course , at the same time breaking the contact between D and E. K K is a wooden support bearing a slip of card L , which acts as a spring-catch , and prevents the rod from rebounding .
The relay , described in the last paper , is then adjusted , so that the primary spark of the Buhmkorff s coil is obtained , and the drop seen by it at any stage desired , whether in the air above the plate , at the moment of impact , or later .
A few precautions are necessary .
The cup G must be smoked even with mercury , as that liquid adheres slightly to glass , but not perceptibly to a smoked surface .
With water or milk it requires frequent resmoking .
With a very large drop a cup of much deeper concavity must be used , otherwise the drop lies flattened out on the cup ; and when the support is removed , efficiency is given to the curvature at the sides , by the tension of which the lower part of the drop is driven downwards into a column , which splits into two or more drops .
I was also able to see the early stages with mercury by fixing the two terminal wires of the electromagnet-current close under the end of a vertical tube , from which the drops were allowed to fall directly on to the plate .
The convex end of the liquid , just before the drop fell , joined the two terminals and allowed the current to pass , and when the drop fell contact was broken .
But the time of the spark was not quite so constant as in the method just described , nor was the plan applicable to water , the conductivity of which , even when strongly acidulated , was too slight .
I noticed that , even when the spring of the relay was at its maximum tension , and the point of the relay-wire only just in contact with the mercury , the earliest spark that could be obtained showed that the drop Mr. A. M. Worthington on the [ Jan. 18 , had already fallen about 20 millims. This explains the failure of the method described in my previous paper to show the earliest stages .
Set 1 .
Fig-1- Fig. 2 .
Fig. 3 .
Fig. 4 .
1877 .
] Forms assumed by Drops of Liquids .
501 Fig. 7 .
Fig. 8 .
Set 1 of the drawings represents the forms most usually assumed by a drop of mercury 3*76 millims. in diameter falling on a clean glass plate from a height of 78 millims. I will speak of variations afterwards .
Fig. 1 .
Rays , too numerous to allow of an estimate of their number , shootout from the point of contact .
The inner ends of these join , forming a continuous sheet of liquid , in which the upper part of the drop may be seen reflected .
Fig. 2 .
The liquid flows from above , over the rays , which shoot out still further .
Fig. 3 .
Main rays are seen , apparently symmetrically disposed about the centre , and connected by a thinner sheet of either continuous liquid or very fine rays .
Yery often drops split off from the ends of the main rays , and were left on the plate in a more or less complete circle .
The number of these seemed to have been in most cases 24 .
Often there was no doubt of this , and sometimes there may have been 21 and 28 .
I have accordingly drawn the figure with 24 rays .
Fig. 4 .
The rays , having reached their maximum spread , are overtaken by the liquid , which rises in a convex ring and overflows them .
Fig. 5 shows the beginning of a transition from 24 rays to 12 arms .
The liquid flows up and joins the rays in pairs .
Fig. 6 shows a later stage of the transition .
Fig. 7 shows the drop with 12 arms just beginning .
Fig. 8 .
The liquid begins to contract and feed the arms .
The stages later than this were described in my previous paper .
Set 2 .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 2 .
On the Forms assumed by Drops of Liquids .
[ Jan. 18 Fig. 3 .
Set 2 exhibits variations .
Fig. 1 is a variation of fig. 2 , Set 1 , the rays being rather fewer and lobed at the ends .
This was only seen once , and then no drops split off to be left on the plate .
Fig. 2 .
This is inserted here as a variation of fig. 4 , Set 1 , viewed from above , though it was really seen with a greater height of fall ( 205 millims. ) .
There is a slight convexity at the edge , and the rays are only visible there .
Fig. 3 is a variation of fig. 7 , Set 1 , where the figure had , as near as could be estimated , 8 lobes .
Fig. 4 is a frequently seen variation of fig. 8 , Set 1 , the rays being visible to the centre , joined by a thinner film of liquid .
Set 3 .
Fig. 2 .
Set 3 shows two early stages seen with a drop of milk 4-22 millims. in diameter falling from a height of 30 millims. on to smoked glass .
The early stages with milk ( or , what was rather less convenient , water coloured white with finely powdered flint ) did not differ markedly from those of mercury- By increasing the height of fall to 130 millims. the number of rays as indicated by the drops left on the plate was increased to 27 , and with a height of fall of 270 millims. the number became 48 , or sometimes somewhere about 60 , the drops being smaller .
By increasing the size of the drop the number of rays was increased also .
Thus with a drop of four times the cubical contents of those mentioned , and falling from a height of 78 millims. , the number of drops left on the plate was often 36 , and the drops were larger , and , indeed , the whole phenomenon was on a larger scale .
Fig. 1 .
Fig. 4 .
1877 .
] On the Development of Organisms .
503 In counting the drops on the plate , judgment is required in distinguishing drops that have split off the rays from those that have split off later from the arms .
Often the arrangement on the plate is so confused that no estimate can be made ; at other times great regularity of the arrangement gives a probability almost amounting to certainty to the estimate .
The number of arms , as in fig. 8 , Set 1 , was estimated by judging of the angle between alternate arms .
The estimate was sometimes confirmed by drops splitting off the arms and being left on the plate , as in the case of the rays .
Thus I am pretty certain that , with a height of fall of 270 millims. , the number of arms was often 18 .
I may mention that I have obtained " patterns " on thinly smoked glass , made by drops of oil and mercury falling in an approximate vacuum of a pressure of 20 millims. of mercury .
The marks thus obtained differ from those made in air , the central spot of lampblack being smaller in the case of air .
Tor low heights of fall the difference is not perceptible , but it becomes very marked as the height is increased from 100 to 500 millims. With a liquid which wets the surface on which it falls ( as , for instance , milk on glass ) I find that the earliest stages are very similar to the first two of Set 1 ; but no well-marked main rays are seen , as in fig. 3 .
The annular ridge of fig. 4 is seen to overflow the slightly protruding rays , and form a figure like number 7 , with slight undulations which do not afterwards increase into arms .
It is , I think , worthy of remark that in the case of mercury on smoked glass , where the adhesion is least , the main ridges appear early before the drop is much spread out .
On a clean glass , where the adhesion is greater , the main ridges first appear rather later , and are somewhat less strongly marked ; while with milk on a clean glass , to which it adheres strongly , no ridges are seen at all .
IV .
" Preliminary Note on the Development of Organisms in Organic Infusions .
" By John Tyndall , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1877 .
I beg leave to submit to the Royal Society a brief preliminary note of the results obtained in the further prosecution of my researches " On the Optical Deportment of the Atmosphere , with reference to Putrefaction and Infection .
" The very remarkable experiments of Dr. Roberts , of Manchester , which have been confirmed by Professor Cohn , of Breslau , have been both verified and contradicted by my recent researches .
In some cases alkalized hay-infusions have been completely sterilized by boiling for five minutes , in other cases they have withstood the boiling temperature for a far longer period .

