Varieties and Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone .
metacentric height , she will have large righting moments at great inclinations and a large range of stability .
The investigations made at the time of the " Daphne " disaster , and the discussions which these and the elaborate report of the Government Commissioner , Sir E. J. Reed , have caused , now place this question upon a somewhat different footing ; but at the time referred to the general belief appears to have been as stated .
The considerations set forth in this paper are mainly intended to draw attention to the necessity for taking a more comprehensive view of the problem of stability than has formerly prevailed , by investigating the cross-curves of stability of ships , and thus ascertaining how the righting moments at fixed angles of inclination vary with draught of water .
They also aim at showing how the stability at fixed inclinations does vary in some ships with draught of water , and becomes comparatively small at light draughts .
In designing ships and other structures which are required to float safely at very light draughts of water , such calculations are necessary if accidents are to be prevented .
In some cases the necessity is as great , or even greater , than for vessels of low freeboard .
The subject is so extensive that I feel quite unable to attempt any exhaustive treatment of it at the present time .
All that has now been possible is to call attention to some of its main features and to show why it requires to be followed up and thoroughly investigated .
''Notes on the Varieties and Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone and its Accessory Ossicles .
" By A. Macalister , F.R.S. , Professor of Anatomy in the University of Cambridge .
Received March 14 , 1884 .
Read March 27 .
[ Plates 1\#151 ; 3 .
] Having examined 1000 lachrymal bones and the soft parts of the lachrymal region of over 300 orbits , I have compiled therefrom the following notes on the anatomy of these parts .
The lachrymal is one of the most variable bones in the human skull , and one of the most perishable , being frequently destroyed by careless or ignorant methods of handling crania .
I. I have notes of two* instances of deficiency of the lachrymal bone .
In one of these cases the whole wall of the groove is formed by the nasal process of the maxilla in front , and by the ethmoid and * I have since seen eight additional instances of absence , in the Hunterian and other collections , five being in Hindoo crania , two in Negroes , in none of which was there any trace of synostosis .
230 Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and frontal behind ; a small lacnna closed by membrane completing the boundary .
In the second instance the right groove is entirely formed by the maxilla , the nasal process of which is expanded backwards ( fig. 20 , x ) into a flat plate behind the crista lachrymalis posterior ( y ) , which also is maxillary .
This plate articulates above with the frontal , and posteriorly with the prolonged orbital plate of the maxilla , which meets the frontal in a suture between the back of the nasal lamella and the front of the os planum .
On the left side the lobe of the nasal process articulates by suture with the ethmoid and below it there is a small lacuna ( fig. 28 , lac .
) , which may possibly have been filled by an ossicle .
In this skull all the sutures are distinct , so the variety is not due to synostosis .
Systematic writers speak indefinitely of such cases , and Krause ( " Handbuch , " III , p. 71 ) says that it occurs in 8 per cent , of crania , but does not specify from what number of crania his percentage is derived .
This is not my experience , and I believe it is not safe to make museum crania* the basis of such observations , as I have more than once seen instances of rudimental lachrymal bones in which the diminutive bone fell out in the course of handling .
Metzger also records cases of absence ( " Curat .
Chirurg .
Fistulse Lachrymalis , Hist. Critica , " Munster , 1772 , p. 66 ) .
II .
Rudimental states of the bone are very common , and I think it probable that many of the so-called instances of deficiency are really examples of some one or other of these conditions .
I have notes of five forms of rudimental bone .
\#171 ; .
Development of an orbital plate alone , terminating at the crista lachrymalis , and with consequent exclusion from the lachrymal groove which is formed of the nasal process of the maxilla alone .
This I have thrice seen , all in unsymmetrical examples ; the bones in each case were simple scales of small size , corresponding to the hinder portion of the orbital plate of the normal bone , in one case resembling the superior ethmo-lachrymal ossicle to be after described .
In several crania in which the lachrymal bone had been broken or had fallen away , I have seen the largely developed lachrymal lamella of the nasal process of the maxilla which , in the perfect cases , was associated with this variety , and hence probably they were instances of the same condition .
A similar arrangement is described by Henle ( " Knochenlehre , " p. 193 ) as occurring in an Italian skull .
ft. Development of two detached ossicles in place of a normal bone .
This I have once found in a Negro skull .
The lower of the two ossicles was the larger , and formed a small part of the lachrymal * Another reason why museum crania form an unsafe basis for statistics is the obvious one that they are to a large extent selected on account of their exhibiting peculiarities .
Morphology of the Human Lachrymal , fyc .
231 groove , as well as the lower part of the orbital plate behind it , the upper corresponded to the top of the orbital plate of normal lachrymal bone ; they are separated by a membranous interval .
Possibly this should be classed with the cases , to be after mentioned , of superior ethmo-lachrymal ossicles , but the upper bone took the place of the upper fourth of the crista lachrymalis , and so differed from all the instances of ossicle with which I have met .
In one other instance of divided lachrymal the two parts were separated , not by a membranous- space , but by a projecting ridge of the os planum which traversed the lachrymal and touched the frontal .
This was an instance of the overgrowth of the wall of the partition between the upper and lower lachrymo-ethmoidal cells jutting through the surface scale of lachrymal .
Professor Gruber has described a somewhat similar case ( " Muller 's Archiv , " 1848 , p. 412 , T. xiv ) .
In a South American skull I have seen a similar spur traversing the lachrymal as far as the crista .
iy .
Development of a narrow string-like lachrymal along the crista , with a very narrow lachrymal part in front , and a still narrower orbital slip behind ; this , which is the persistence of an early embryonic form , is rare .
I have notes of three cases only .
In one of these the bone was not more than 2'5 millims. broad , and lay along the front of the ethmoid .
In the other the strip was closely perforated with holes , another embryonic character ; in neither was there any hamulus lachrymalis .
3 .
In rather more than 2 per cent , the bone is composed of a coarse reticulum whose meshes in the recent state are closed by membrane ; most of such cases are old bones , and the holes are due to absorption consequent on dilatation of the ethmo-lachrymal cells , but in some of those examined the same condition occurred in young crania , and in most of the recent orbits in which such deficiencies were noticed the bone had a continuous sub-periosteal membrane over these holes .
Ten of these bones were reduced to a few trabeculae which were the remains of those parts of the normal bone which are thickest and densest , viz. , the crista and the rods between the upper and lower lachrymo-ethmoidal cells , and a bar along both the superior and the inferior margins .
In five of these cases of deficient lachrymal bone islands of the ethmoid filled in the holes ; two of these were very old crania .
e. In several crania , three at least , a space closed by membrane existed between the back of the lachrymal and the anterior margin of the os planum .
In one I found a similar membrane-closed space between the front of the lachrymal and the back of the nasal process of the maxilla ; both of these were much fenestrated bones .
In all these cases of fenestration the deficiencies of the bone were opposite the middle of the lachrymo-ethmoidal cells , and the reticular Prof. A* Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and bars which represented the bone were thus the rods representing the cell boundaries .
III .
Variations in outline .
No two lachrymal bones are exactly alike , and all intermediate forms between the broadly ovate and the narrow rectangular have been found .
The patterns of the borders also are the subjects of great variety , from perfect straightness to the most irregular lobulation .
The anterior edge is always the longest , the superior is the shortest , the .
inferior is usually the least toothed and the most uniform in outline .
The upper or frontal edge presents three types ; it is nearly horizontal in 31 per cent. , it rises obliquely from behind forwards to the maxilla in 21 per cent. , but in the majority , 43 per cent. , it formed an angle salient upwards and forwards , as the upper edge of the orbital portion rises obliquely to the top of the crista , and thence the upper edge of the grooved portion descends rather steeply to the maxilla .
In only one bone did the entire border slope downwards and forwards .
This border is approximately on the level of the top of the os planum in 48 per cent. , rises above it in 39 per cent. , but lay below it in 13 per cent. , the edge is usually denticulated , especially at the top of the crest , and from this forward where it is thicker than it is behind .
Ankylosis of this border is not uncommon , to some extent it occurred in one out of every thirty examined , especially in front of the crista .
A spur of the frontal descended between the lachrymal and the os planum in 34 per cent. , but this was only large in one-third of these .
A similar frontal spur projects into the maxillo-lachrymal suture in two-ninths of those examined , but was usually slight , only strongly marked in one-fourteenth of these cases of its occurrence .
The best marked example of the post-lachrymal spur projected downwards for 5 millims. , and of the pre-lachrymal for 4'5 minima .
The upper edge is below the level of the maxillo-frontal suture in all , and this suture usually rises obliquely in front of it , but in some ( percentage not recorded ) ib rises suddenly and steeply .
The ethmo-lachrymal suture is concave backwards in 50 per cent , straight in 12 per cent. , irregular in 36 per cent. , convex backwards in 2 per cent. , it is more or less toothed in 25 per cent. , and seldom ankyloses to the ethmoid ( 1|- per cent. ) The posterior superior angle is usually rounded and seldom projects as far backward as the posterior inferior ; in one it sent a process backwards above the ethmoid for 2 millims. , a similar condition of the posterior inferior angle undershooting the ethmoid occurred to a marked extent in 2 per cent. , and to a slight extent in 14 per cent. A slight maxillary spur projects between the ethmoid and os planum in 14 per cent. , but is only sharp and strong in 3 per cent. The anterior edge is usually irregular and convex forwards , seldom straight- 1-^ per cent. ) or Morphology of the Human , Lachrymal , fyc .
233 concave ( 1 per cent. ) This is the margin which is the most frequently ankylosed , and was more or less synostosed to the maxilla in 4 per cent. In these cases this border is marked by a row of foramina which transmit vessels and which sometimes are of considerable size ( fig. 33 ) .
These foramina can be seen , even before j ankylosis , in rather more than 10 per cent , of the specimens examined .
One large hole exists at the anterior superior angle in !
20 per cent , of the cases examined ( fig. 25 ) .
The lower end of the anterior margin extends downwards into the canal below the level of the hamulus in 80 per cent , of the bones , the upper end is confluent with the top of the crista in 8 per cent. This margin unites in a somewhat variable way with the nasal process of the maxilla , sometimes it forms with it a simple squamous suture , overlapping it , with the intervention of a thin layer of periosteum , sometimes it forms with it a harmonia , but in the largest number of cases examined ( percentage not determined ) , the margin of the lachrymal widens and !
tends to split into two lamellae , one passing in front , and the other behind the maxilla , forming thus an imperfect schindylesis .
The lamella which passes internal to the maxilla is usually better marked above , that which lies external is better marked below ; but I have not found a perfect schindylesis in any , as the two lamellae have never been sufficiently developed to embrace the margin of the nasal process .
The inferior external margin , as seen in the orbit , is the most uniform and the least frequently ankylosed Q per cent. ) ; it always lies on a plane external to the superior , and passes from behind forwards and upwards ; its posterior angle is nearly always rounded .
This edge is sometimes a harmonia , but most commonly tends slightly to overlap the maxilla .
Of its anterior termination we shall see the varieties when considering the hamulus .
It is seldom irregular or tabulated , sometimes rectilinear and horizontal , but most commonly presents a single convexity .
Of all the margins the posterior is that which shows the greatest amount of lobulation , and it is sometimes deeply indented by bays , sometimes one or two of these extend almost to the crista lachrymalis ; more rarely it sends a spur backwards into the ethmoid ; this I have \#166 ; seen in three instances .
In another instance a long process of the os planum of the ethmoid projected forwards below the lachrymal bone and below the inferior lachrymo-ethmoidal ossicle , separating these from the maxilla as far as the crista lachrymalis .
IY .
The varieties of crista lachrymalis and of hamulus are very numerous , but may be reduced to four types\#151 ; A. Simple lamellar forms with obsolete crest .
B. Simple carinate forms .
C. Carino-acuminate forms .
234 Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and D. Carino-hamate forms .
A. In the normal lachrymal the two lamellae , orbital and lachrymal which unite at the crista , form an angle which is not far from a right angle , but in those of this first variety the two parts are so nearly on the same plane that the crest is obsolete .
This condition is rare , I found it only in twelve bones , mostly of old persons .
There is no prolongation of the bone into the nasal canal , and the lower edge of the bone ends opposite the confluence of the nasal duct and lachrymal sac , that is , opposite the lower valve of Beraud ( " Gaz .
Medicale , " 1851 ) .
Coexisting with this I have never found any separate ossicle nor any imperfect suture , and five of them at least were fenestrated with absorption holes .
B. The second or simply carinate forms are commoner , and vary in | detail of development from those in which the orbital face of the bone j shows a slightly ridged convexity below to those in whom the surface j is marked by a strongly projecting ridge at the confluence of the | grooved and the posterior lamella .
In ten out of thirty-six such bones the crest was continuous from above downwards , in twelve it was rounded for the upper third , in nine for the upper half , while in five it was quite obsolete above .
Of those in which it was continuous three had a well-marked spur of the crest in the upper part of its middle third , the surface behind which I have found giving attachment to the upper ascending fibres of the musculus posterior of Henke ( " Archiv fur Ophthalmologie , " iv , 270 ) .
In none of these was the crest prolonged into a point below , but it ended by its lower border coming into contact with the crista of the maxilla .
This form seldom coexists with anomalous suturation , was not uncommonly fenestrated or foraminated , sometimes ankylosed , and the edges when free were generally uneven .
0 .
The third form is the commonest among European skulls .
I have found it in over 50 per cent , of ' British lachrymals , and in 42 per cent , of all examined .
In most of these bones the crest becomes gradually more ^cutely elevated as it descends , and ends in a sharp point which overlies the edge of the maxilla .
The lower edge of the bone close to the hamulus splits into two lamellae , an outer which becomes continuously articulated with the orbital floor of the maxilla , an inner continuous downwards into the processus turbinalis , and forward into the processus lachrymalis , the latter of which usually comes in contact with the upper and outer edge of the processus hamatus minor , and the anterior edge of the unciform process of the ethmoid .
The surface between these lies on the maxilla , but is sometimes , by the absorption of the intervening lamella of bone , brought in contaot with the mucous lining of the opening of the antrum maxilla/ re .
In rather more than 12 per cent , the apex of the crest where it touches the maxilla points directly to the inner end of the sutura Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone , fyc .
235 infraorbitalis transversa , and not uncommonly a verticalis passes downwards and forwards therefrom , either to the infra-orbital or the accessory infra-orbital canal . !
The crest in a few instances projects as a sharp thin lamella , and this has its free border either uniform or prolonged into spinous points .
The commonest place for such prolongation is at the junction of the upper and middle third , a second often exists at the lower third , and these two may coexist .
These spines are still more frequent in the bones showing the next variety .
D. The carino-hamate form is nearly as common as the last , and in the series of American crania in the Cambridge Museum it is found in three out of each five .
Among European crania I have found it only in 27 per cent. , and in 39 per cent , of the entire number examined .
These vary from forms with a small acuminate spur\#151 ; that is , strongly pronounced cases of the last form\#151 ; to those with a large quadrate process projecting over the orbital ridge to the face ; this last condition occurred in of all the European crania examined , but in of all crania .
This is the form which is most commonly associated with accessory ossicles and sutures .
In these cases , as well as in the last series , the crista lachrymali frequently begins above as a rounded tuberous knob below the frontal suture , sometimes as a sharp ridge , and this may be curved forward so as to arch sharply over the lachrymal sac .
This occurs in 2 per cent. In old bones this region is usually thinned and rounded , owing to the distension of the upper lachrymo-ethmoidal cell .
Below this the crest at its upper third is often prolonged into a spine for the attachment of the lachrymalis posterior ( attached not to the sharp edge , but to the posterior and outer surface of the spine ) , below which the crest is less prominent and is indented into a bay , generally again becom-ing prominent and merging into the hamulus .
This arrangement of the crest exists in one-sixth of the bones examined .
In 2 per cent , of hamate bones the border of the crista is reduced to a thread 1 millim. in breadth ; but I have not found this form to be constant among negroes , as Sommering regarded it to be ( Weber-Hildebrand , II , 401 ) .
In three cases I found examples of the second spine above the hamulus at the lower third of the crista , similar to that described by Schwegel ( " Henle u. Pfeufer 's Zeitschrift , " III Reihe , V , 1856 , p. 866 ) .
In five cases there was a perforation through the root of the hamulus , traversed in one instance by a branch of the infra-orbital artery .
The hamulus is pierced by one or two holes in 2 per cent , of specimens , and these transmit similar vessels .
In one Malay skull the hamulus was wide and deep , reminding one of the condition in many catarrhine monkeys .
Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and Of other points of superficial anatomy in connexion with this bone the following may be noticed .
While , in general , the orbital surface is uniform , I have several times found it to be irregular , probably as the result of accident .
Usually this takes the form of irregular surface depressions .
It may also present vascular grooves for branches of the infra-orbital artery , but these are not common .
The inner surface below presents two lamellar processes:\#151 ; 1 .
Processus lachrymalis , the very variable concave lamella which projects into the nasal canal ; usually this ends below in a rounded border , but in a few it ends in an acute down-directed point .
The length of this rarely exceeds 3 millims. ; the maximum which I have found is 6 millims. 2 .
The processus turbinalis , or the inferior internal margin , is by { far the most irregular portion of the bone ; it touches the inner side j of the maxilla in front of the opening of the antrum , and generally is prolonged downwards to a point where it converges with the -cessus lachrymalis .
The lower margin of this articulates with the processus lachrymalis of the maxillo-turbinal in about 66 per cent , of cases .
The forms of this articulation are variable ; but in 70 per cent , the outer surface of the turbinal overlaps a small space of the inside of the process of the lachrymal .
The outline of this processus turbinalis is rudely triangular in about 70 per cent , with three sharp margins ; in some there are four edges , an additional one being placed between the lachrymal process | and the point of the turbinal process .
V. In size and degree of development there is little difference between the bones of the two sexes ; the average male lachrymal has a maximum length in the orbit of 16'5 millims. ( not counting the downward extension of the processus lachrymalis ) , the average female has a length of 15*5 millims. The shortest normal adult bone measured 8 millims. , the longest 19*5 .
The breadth at the lowest border was more variable , the average being 9'5 , the extremes 4 and 14 .
The lachrymal index b x 100 l averaged 60 , but many varied between 42 and 75 , the average female index being a little higher than the male .
The width of the upper edge is the most variable , the widest of 70 measurements was 11 millims. , the narrowest 2 , the average 7'75 .
The hamulus is commoner in male than in female skulls .
VI .
The vascular relations of the lachrymal bone are usually very definite , a branch of the infra-orbital passes under , through , or over the hamulus into the lachrymal canal ; branches of the infra-orbital and of the angular artery pierce the suture between the maxilla and lachrymal anteriorly and a branch of the nasal division of the ophthalmic artery passes through the suture at the fronto-maxillary angle Morphology of the Human Lachrymal , 8fc .
237 into the superior lachrymo-ethmoidal cell .
In 20 per cent , there is a distinct aperture , sometimes of large size for this , and I have found in many cases a very fine twig of the infra-trochlear nerve to accom-jpany the artery through .
this foramen , making thus , with the j nervulus syheno-ethmoidalis of Luschka and the proper nasal , a third ethmoidal branch from the ophthalmic division of the fifth .
VII .
The disposition of the periosteum on the outer surface of the !
iachrymal hone is worthy of note .
Tracing it forward from the os planum on the orbital surface , it is without much difficulty divisible into two layers , and at the crista lachrymalis the innermost of these again divides into two lamell\#174 ; \#151 ; one , which keeps close to the surface of the bqne , lining the lachrymal groove , and is traceable forwards on the nasal process of the maxilla to the level of the lachrymal crest on that bone .
This layer is separable from the outer wall of the lachrymal sac , to which it is attached by a loose connective tissue , in which many vessels ramify* The outer layer of this inner lamella unites with the entire of the outer lamella and passes over the lachrymal sac as a lachrymal aponeurosis continuing forwards and inwards to unite with the former layer at the crista malis anterior .
These layers underlie the lachrymales , and are pierced by the canaliculi , along which , towards the puncta , they send an expansion , and beneath the inferior of which the deeper layer is strengthened by a more or less strong fibrous band , which starts from the lower edge of the crista lachrymalis and passes obliquely forwards to be attached to the outer and lower part of the crest of the same name on the maxilla .
This is the band which , when ossified , becomes the hamulus lachry , and which seems to be constantly present , either in this primitive membranous condition or else as a longer or shorter ossification in this membrane ; the presence or absence of the hamulus is thus in reality the ossification or nonossification of a constant though variable band .
Beneath this band the small lachrymal branch of the infra-orbital artery passes to the nasal duct , and where it arches over this vessel , the membranous or bony hamulus not uncommonly gives attachment to fibres of the i inferior oblique muscle , for the rest of which there is usually a i distinct depression on the maxilla .
\#166 ; The outer connexions of the periosteal fibrous layer which lies superficial to the lachrymal sac are not easily traced ; a transverse section through the inner canthus shows this layer to be continued forwards under the lachrymal caruncle into the ridge of fibrous tissue which gives origin to the orbicularis , and which , when detached from its surroundings , is called tendo palpebrarum .
When * This separation of the comparatively thin and simple mucosa along most of the course of the duct from the periosteum was described by .Robin and Cadiat ( " Journal de la Physiologie , " 1875 , p. 497 ) .
Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and simply cleaned and not detached , this shows , however , in its proper condition as a simple ridge of this lachrymal aponeurosis .
Above and below the level of the rictus 'palpebrarum this lachrymal aponeurosis is continued outwards into the broad ligament of the eyelid , which is attached along the orbital margin , and with whose upper and inner border the trochlea of the superior oblique has originally been structurally continuous .
From the anterior or facial side of this lachrymal aponeurosis the palpebral and ciliary parts of the orbicularis palpebrarum are attached , from the posterior or orbital side the musculi lachrymales ( figs. 29 , 30 ) .
The grooved portion of the lachrymal bone is frequently traversed by very many fine holes .
These are present even in very young states of the bone ( fig. 1 ) , and are even more distinct in the fourth month than in the bone of later age .
Sometimes , however , this part of the bone remains quite cribriform ( fig. 26 ) , a condition never found in the orbital part , which may have a few vascular holes or absorption foramina , but which I have never found uniformly perforate .
The inner surface of the young lachrymal bone is covered with a very thin vascular periosteum , which separates it from the ethmoidal cartilage or bone .
As age advances , this becomes with difficulty separable , and the underlying ethmoidal lamellae become thin and finally become absorbed in parts ; two lachrymo-ethmoidal cells , superior and inferior , become thus in the adult bounded by this bone externally , and the partition ridge of the ethmoid sometimes becomes ankylosed to the corresponding strengthened ridge of the lachrymal bone .
In front of the superior ethmoidal cell , the lachrymal bone in about 60 per cent , is for a short space in contact with the narial mucous membrane , and in about the same proportion the posterior inferior angle forms the outer boundary of that part of the infundibulum into which the anterior ethmoidal cells open .
The mucous membrane which touches the bone is inseparable from the periosteum , and is covered with ciliated epithelium .
The superior lachrymo-ethmoidal cell opens into the infundibulum external to the middle spongy bone , and above and behind the opening of the antrum .
The inferior opens lower down and farther forward into the same passage , close to the [ opening of the antrum .
In old persons the superior lachrymo-ethmoidal cell extends backwards under the os planum .
The anterior margin of the uncinate process of the ethmoid articulated with the hollow of the crista in about 72 per cent , of the specimens .
VIII .
Six separate ossicles occur around the margins of the lachrymal bone .
These are\#151 ; 1 .
Ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale superius .
2 .
Ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale inferius .
3 .
Ossiculum canalis naso-lachrymalis .
Morphology of the Human Lachrymal , #c .
239 4 .
Ossiculum hamuli .
5 .
Ossiculum infra-orbitale .
6 .
Ossiculum maxillo-frontale .
Ossiculum efhmo-lachrymale superius ( figs. 11 , 23 ) .
In seven specimens I found this small ossicle behind the normal lachrymal in the upper part of the ethmo-lachrymal suture ; in one of these , in a Kaffir , the ossicle occupied the entire space of the small ethmo-lachrymal suture , above a long ascending ethmo-lachrymal spine of the maxilla ( fig. 23 ) .
In another specimen ( fig. 11 ) the bone was large , and also completely separated the ethmoid from the lachrymal .
This form is described by Krause ( p. 69 ) as the os lachrymale posterius , and in most cases it is , as he has described , a dismemberment of the os planum .
In one , however , I found this bone to overlie the ethmoid .
A similar ossicle is described by Henle ( p. 129 ) .
In the large sized forms it is really ethmoidal ; in none did it extend back as far as the anterior ethmoidal foramen .
In these forms it is a persistence of a commonly present separate centre of ossification in the front of the os planum ( fig. 7 ) . .
Ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale inferius ( figs. 11 , 18 ) is a similar bone , not usually of ethmoidal origin , at the lowest part of the ethmo-lachrymal suture , between these bones and the maxilla .
In one case only it was truly ethmoidal ; in others it was supra-ethmoidal , and seemed to be a separated ossicle of the infra-orbital plate of the maxilla , which often ( fig. 27 ) is irregularly cleft in this region .
In fig. 11 , it will be seen coexisting with a divided maxilla ; and in fig. 23 a long cleft underlies the superior lachrymo-ethmoidal ossicle .
Ossiculum canalis naso-lachrymalis was so named by Gruber , and is a small bone lying external to the bony or membranous hamulus , and in front of the sutura infra-orbitalis transversa when such exists , usually coexistent with a sutura verticalis , at the commencement of which it is placed .
This bone was firsf^described by Beclard ( " Memoires sir l'Osteose , Nouvelles Journal de Medecin , " IV , 1819 , p. 332 ) , and afterwards by Rousseau ( " Annals des Sciences Naturelles , " XVII , 1829 , p. 86 , PI .
V ) .
Other anatomists have referred to it , but the extensive monograph on the subject by Professor Gruber ( " Mem. de l'Acad .
Imp .
de St. Petersbourg , ' ' VII Series , vol. 24 , No. 3 ) is so full that to it little can be added .
Professor Gruber regards the bone described by Beclard as distinct from the ossicle of Rousseau ; but , while this may be , the descriptions given by these authors are not sufficiently definite to enable us to decide .
In general , this bone is quite distinct from the , and coexists with it in the majority of cases , and corresponds to a variable amount to the outer inferior edge of the lachrymal in one of my cases , completely excluding it from contact with the maxilla .
The frequency of occurrence of this bone has been differently 240 Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and stated .
Rousseau says five or six out of every ten ; Gruber says in the majority of cases ; Krause , on the other hand , says in 20 per cent i In my series , I find that it is present as a distinct element in 32 per cent. , but that there are traces of its having been present in many others in which it has lost its separateness by ankylosis , so that on the whole , there are traces of its existence in 55 per cent , of crania In shape it is crescentic , trigonal , quadrate , or irregular ; in length it varies from 0'5 millim. to 7 millims. When the hamulus exists , the ossicle is excluded from the lachrymal canal by it , and I have never found it stretching beneath the hamulus so as to come into the wall of the tube .
In cases of unossified hamulus , it usually forms part of the bony margin of the canal , dipping into it for not more than 1-5 millims. , and underlying the lachrymal branch of the infra-orbital I artery .
This ossicle always lies on the maxilla and indents it , and f not the lachrymal ; and when it ankyloses , it is usually with the \ maxilla , not with the lachrymal , unless in exceptional cases .
In !
nature it seems to be , like the inferior ethmo-lachrymal ossicle , a I detached ossicle of the maxilla , one of several ossific nuclei of the orbital plate which has not coalesced with its neighbours .
The ossiculum hamuli is a separate ossification in the membranous hamulus ( figs. 9 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 17 , 21 , 26 ) at the anterior attachment of the membrane , that is , at the front border of the lachrymal groove , separated by a vacant space or suture from the crista lachrymalis .
In this form I have found it in It ?
per cent. Sometimes it is large , extends backwards and replaces the hamulus , and it may coexist with the last ossicle and exclude it from the margin .
In some cases , one ossicle of large size seems to replace the two ( fig. 14 ) .
This bone is always at the margin of the canal , and never coexists with a developed hamulus ; in six specimens it encroached on the face , and formed the pars facialis ( fig. 13 ) .
The ossiculum infraorbitale marginale ( Gruber ) is a small nodule in front of the malar , and belonging to it rather than to the lachrymal .
I have found it to articulate with the lachrymal hamulus , with the ossiculu/ m canalis , or with the ossiculum hamuli , but I reserve the descriptions of these as they really belong to the malar bone .
When ossified to the malar , and extended to the lachrymal , they produce the condition of lachrymo-jugal suture ( Gruber , loo .
cit. , " Proc. Royal Irish Academy , " Nov. 1874 , p. 58 ) .
Ossiculum maxillo-frontale is a bone present in 1 per cent , of my specimens , and formed by a detached slip of the maxilla along the upper part of the crista lachrymalis anterior .
This is the bein of Luschka ( " Muller 's Archiv , " 1858 , p. 304 ) which Krause finds to exist in 3 per cent. , a degree of frequency not present in my specimens .
It is variable in size , usually an elongated triangle with its apex downwards articulating above with the frontal , posteriorly Morphology of the Human Lachrymal fyc .
241 with the lachrymal , and anteriorly with the nasal process of the maxilla .
In others , it has partially ankylosed above and remains free below , its suture being in the plane of the sutura imperfecta of M. J. Weber .
This bone was first described by Rosenmiiller ( " Descr .
ipartium ext .
oculif Leipzig , 1797 , p. 14 ) , who found two instances . ?
Budge ( " Henle u. Pfeufer 's Zeitschrift , " III , Series VII , p. 278 ) found lit 6 times in 184 , and Luschka found it 7 times out of 60 .
Com-Sbining these with my 10 out of 1020 sets* of bones , we get an average frequency of 28 in 1264 , that is about 1 in 55 .
Taking into consideration its relation to the sutura it seems probable that this must represent some element which tends to remain separate .
In my instances , the detached process of bone was never wholly coextensive with the part isolated in other skulls by the sutura notha , but it generally corresponded to it above .
In the skull of Glorvina ( Lady Morgan 's Wild Irish Girl ) the ossicle on the right is completely detached , that on the left , where the bone was much larger , has become ankylosed to the maxilla for a little more than the lower half of its extent , and this arrangement I have also found in three other instances .
The sutura notha , or sutura imperfecta , which is related to this ossicle , is remarkably constant in some form or other , usually as a row of holes into which branches of the ; infra-orbital artery pass ( fig. 2 ) .
Traces of its separateness sometimes continue on the inside of the maxilla even when there is little sign on the outside , and not uncommonly a fissure occurs traversing the whole thickness of the bone at one extremity , usually below but occasionally above .
It is , however , true that in the very large majority of maxillae no separate continuous centre of ossification can be isolated for this region , but this part of the bone ossifies continuously from the anterior centre of the bone which arises below and internal to the infra-orbital hole in the membrane of the face , during the latter days of the fifth week of foetal life .
Thus if this suture marks out an element originally separate , it must have lost its distinctness at a ; remote period .
The vessels perforating the maxilla along this line pass to the ethmo-maxillary and maxillo-turbinal sutures , and end on the nasal mucous surface along these lines ; indeed , in general , this suture marks the distinctness of that part of the nasal process of the maxilla which overlies the anterior border of the ethmoid from that part which intervenes between the ethmoid and the nasal , and the ossicle last described corresponds to the upper part of the former region .
IX .
The history of the development of the human lachrymal bone is interesting as showing something of the limits within which ossification periods vary .
I have not been able to detect any trace of bone until the eighth week .
In one foetus of 4'25 centime .
, presumably VOL. XXXVII .
r 242 Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and eight weeks old , I found a bony centre on the right side , in front of the nasal plate of the maxilla , but none on the left .
In a second of the same size , both had begun to ossify , while in a ninth week foetus I found no trace of bony growth .
In nine other foetuses of eighth week age , I found the traces of beginning ossification on both sides in the form of single bony centres , which begin in the mem , bran overlying the ethmoidal cartilage , andi lying at the back of the lachrymal duct , which has a distinct lumen by this time .
At or near the end of the third month in foetuses of 6-7 centims. , the portion contiguous to the orbital plate of the maxilla is ossified , but does not touch any of the developing bones around , except behind and below the lachrymal grooves .
In foetuses of the end of the fourth month , the lower border is fully ossified , and forms a suture with the maxilla ; ossification has also extended rapidly upwards , so that the upper margin touches the frontal .
The crista is developed , and the orbital surface behind it is narrow , overlying the orbital face of the ethmoidal cartilage , in which the first bony nodule does not appear until the beginning of the thirteenth week .
At this period , the lachrymal bone is somewhat trigonal , and measures 3 .5 to 4 millims. long ( average of eight ) , and in one of my specimens the hamulus has begun to ossify even at this age .
Bony growth extends more rapidly upwards and forwards than backwards , and the lachrymal part of the bone is completed , except at the two ends , by the end of the fifth month , when as yet the orbital part is comparatively narrow .
Even at this stage , the anterior part is generally much foraminated ( fig. 1 ) , and , while in contact with its other environing bones , it has not yet touched the bony os planum ( figs. 6 , 7 ) , nor the maxillo-turbinal cartilage .
The lowest part of the former is reached at the end of the fifth or very early in the sixth month , when the bone attains a length of 4 5 millims. In the sixth month , it has extended further back , and has increased in length to 5 millims. ; in the seventh , it has attained nearly its adult shape , and it averages 6 by 3 ; in the eighth , all the margining sutures are established , except the lachrymo-ethmoidal , where there is still for the upper two-thirds an area of uncovered cartilage , and also for a short extent anteriorly and superiorly .
The bone is now 6'25 by 4 millims. , has attained its adult shape , and in half my specimens has a developed hamulus .
In the ninth month , the average size is 7'5 x 5 millims. , but there is yet an angle of cartilage above and behind unfilled .
The hamulus is often fully ossified even to its facial part ; indeed , I have seen this state attained in one foetal skull of eight months .
The ossiculumeanalis naso-lachrymalis is early in its appearance .
In one eighth month skull I found it distinctly ossified , and in six skulls of ninth month foetuses .
The ossiculum infraorbitale I once saw in a seven months skull .
Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone , 243 The contiguous part of the maxilla shows some noteworthy characters in development , scattered bony nuclei appear in the infra-orbital membrane and in the membranous nasal process during the early ( part of the sixth week , and in skulls of foetuses of 32 millims. long these have coalesced into continuous plates , one behind and below the lachrymal in the floor of the orbit , the other in front and internal , and early continuous with the ossification of the front of the maxilla .
The latter arises by several nodules irregularly divided into two sets , one of which forms the crista lachrymalts anterior , the others coalesce to form the rest of the nasal process , but these early unite , and in thirty foetal skulls I have only once seen a distinct trace of a persistent suture between these elements after the end of the third month .
There always , however , persists the row of vascular boles along this line becoming the sntura of the adult .
The infraorbital nucleus consists at its first appearance of several irregularly elongated bony spicules beneath the infra-orbital nerve .
Very rapidly , however , as these coalesce and extend forwards towards the brim of the orbit the bone rises above the nerVe close to the orbital edge and forms a bony bridge over it .
There is always a continuous layer of membrane over the nerve , thicker at the margin even before ossification is detectible , traceable outward to the place where the malar is ossifying and onwards to the lachrymal region , and into this the bony growth extends .
The overlap is from without inwards , and the lip of bone growing over the nerve touches the continuous plate internally forming the sutura infraorhitalis verticalis on the face .
This has formed and the infra-orbital foramen is quite bridged in at the end of the thirteenth week .
About the sixteenth week the margin of the outer lip of the infra-orbital canal extends over the nerve behind the brim of the orbit , and thus coalescing with the inner margin from before backwards forms the sutura infraorbitalis longitudinalis .
The point where these two sutures unite varies in place and may be at , under , or internal to the anterior point of the malar bone , and , as in many cases , the part of the maxilla on which the malar abuts , is prolonged inwards to support the anterior inferior angle of that bone , it is not uncommon to find the front portion of the Sutura infraorbitalis running transversely inwards into the lachrymo-maxillary suture , in this form the transversely-placed , inward-running anterior limb of the suture is sometimes known as the sutura infraorbitalis transversa ( Halbertsma ) , and when this is present the edge of the portion of the infra-orbital plate internal to the infra-orbital nerve is thereby excluded from the brim of the orbit .
The ossiculum canalis is the terminal nodule of ossification in the in-jutting extremity of the process from without .
The early period at which these conditions appear is interesting , and the extent to which the malar encroaches on the maxilla along Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and the orbital border is as variable in the twelve foetal crania under four i months which I have now before me as in the same number of adult skulls .
Of the later changes taking place in the development of the lachrymal bone the principal is the assumption of a more vertical position .
The embryonic lachrymal until the end of the eighth month is inclined inwards at an angle of from 60 ' to 70 ' , but after birth it rapidly becomes more vertical and the surface develops its outward i concavity from above downwards , the first appearance of which immediately precedes birth .
The degree of obliquity of the foetal a lachrymal at birth may be represented by an inter-lachrymal index , that is , the maximum distance between the upper margins of the two i lachrymal bones multiplied by 100 , divided by the maximum distance \ between the lowest margin of the two bones .
This in ninth month f skulls averages 72 .
X..In the adult the position and obliquity of the lachrymal bone depends on several factors , the size of the orbits , the internasal !
width , the width of the respiratory region of the nose , the degree of j projection of the frontal bone , all influence it .
The curve of the surface is not uniform , the lower third being generally turned rather sharply outward .
The simplest method of estimating both the obliquity and curvature of the surfaces is by comparing the relative distances between the respective points of the two lachrymal bones .
The average superior inter-lachrymal width or distance between the posterior superior angles of the two lachrymals is 25'2 millims. The posterior inferior inter-lachrymal width or distance between the posterior inferior angles , measured from the point of contact of lachrymal , ethmoid , and maxilla on each side is 30 millims. , and the anterior inferior inter-lachrymal width , or that between the most divergent points of the two lachrymals , the extreme inferior point of the crista ( not taking the hamulus into account ) , is 33'4 millims. The amount of inclination may be expressed by two indexes which I may call the anterior and posterior inter-lachrymal indexes .
The latter of these ( superior inter-lachrymal width X100 , divided by posterior inferior inter-lachrymal width ) , indicates the degree of obliquity of the upper two thirds of the bone .
The former two indexes .
The average anterior inter-lachrymal index =75 , the average posterior =84 .
The former index decreases with increasing splay of the lower margin , the latter with increasing general obliquity .
These degrees of obliquity seem to vary in different races .
In the crania of negroes from South-West Africa the bone is most vertical ; f\#151 ; \#151 ; --\#151 ; -\#151 ; -\#151 ; J indicates the obliquity plus the curve of the lower third , the amount of which can be estimated by comparison of the Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone , Sfc .
245 in the distorted crania of Peruvians it is most oblique .
The following table exhibits concisely these divergences : \#151 ; Race .
Averages of measurement .
s. i. w. p .i.ixW .
a.i .i.w .
p. i. index .
a. i. index .
millims. millims. millims. 3 Chinese .
- 25 3 27 6 316 88 80 16 Negroes 27-7 31 -6 34 2 87 81 8 Australians 25 -3 29-3 32 4 86 78 50 Europeans 24-8 28-8 32 -8 86 75*6 25 Peruvians 24 29-8 34 80 70 | Comparing these it will be seen that the average internasal width of the negroes raises their indexes , while the outward splay of the lower third is greatest among the Peruvians .
The bone is also generally smaller in negroes than in the other races .
XI .
Comparative Anatomy and Morphology .
The lachrymal bone is a splint developed in the membrane overlying the outer side of the ethmoid , and in mammals it is formed in close relation to the nasal duct .
I have not found , in any human embryos , specimens young enough to show the earliest stages of the formation of the duct , but my examinations of sections of this region in rats and pigs confirms the description of the development of the duct given by Born and Legal ( " Morph .
Jahrbuch , " viii , 1882 , p. 353 ) , according to whom it arises , not as Cost believed , by the closure of the surface over the persistent oculo-nasal groove , but by the in-projection of a column of epithelial cells from the surface in the line between the eye and the nose , the column becoming afterwards ' bridged by mesoblast , and developing a lumen .
This agrees with the mode of development observed among the lower Vertebrates by Born .
Before any trace of ossification appears in man the duct has a distinct lumen . .
The formation of a double nasal duct is thus easily explicable , as produced by the interjection of a vertical fold of mesoblast into the column of cells .
In the one instance of this very rare condition met with by me in the dissecting room , and now in the Cambridge Museum , there was a septum in the lachrymal sac , not quite dividing it into two , nor stretching above the level of the vestibule , this was continued into the nasal duct , completely dividing it for its upper fourth , each surface being clothed with ciliated epithelium .
The septum ceased about the middle of the duct , ending obliquely , and from this to the inferior opening the tube was single , but its lower R 2 246 Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and end was crossed by a bridge of mucous membrane subdividing it into two .
In man , ossification commences in the membrane behind and internal to the lachrymal sac and duct independently of the ossification in the bridge of tissue overlying the tube .
The former gives rise to the lachrymal bone , the latter to the nasal process of the maxilla .
The development of the bony environment of the sac is , however , variable among mammals , and three distinct types are met with : 1st , that in which the pre- and post-lachrymal ossification are continuous , and the bone forms a complete girdle for the nasal duct and a large element of the interorbital region of the face ; 2nd , that in which , while still engirdling the lachrymal sac , the bone is reduced to a small thin lamella ; and 3rdly , the form in which the lachrymal bone is confined to the post-lachrymal region .
The first form is met with among the lower and more generalised mammals .
In all the Didelphia it is thus large , and has a wide lachrymo-jugal suture , larger in the carnivorous than in the herbivorous forms , but in none excluding the maxilla from the frontal .
Among the Ungulates the bone is large , with a large facial region .
In many it has a large lachrymo-nasal suture , and excludes the maxilla from the frontal superficially .
This is the case in Rhinoceros , Hippopotamus , many pigs , horse , Bos , Oreas , Tragelaphus , and many Artiodactyles , but there is a maxillo-frontal suture in Hyrax , some pigs , camels , Hyromoschus , \amp ; e. In the pig there are often accessory lachrymal ossicles in the lachrymo-frontal suture .
Among all these the lachrymal tends to ankylose with the frontal and malar , not with the maxilla .
The same large form exists through the Edentata and Sirenia , and a smaller form of the same kind among the Rodents .
The chief variation among these last is the presence or absence of a jugal contact .
There is a lachrymo-jugal suture among the Sciuromorphs and Myomorphs , and a few of the Hystricomorphs , such as Lagostomus , but it is generally absent among the other porcupine allies , owing to the shortening of the malar , not to any great alteration in the lachrymal , which in most Rodents has a larger facial than orbital surface , though not much of either .
The Elephant , rodent-like in all its features , agrees with the Hystricomorphs in this .
Among Carnivores the lachrymal is small , forms but a small inconspicuous element of the orbital margin , and from its condition of moderate size among Cynoids diminishes both towards ( Eluroids and Arctoids , but especially towards the latter , among whom it appears as a very small lamina .
It becomes still smaller among Pinnipeds , appearing in some like Callocephalus and Halichoerus as au exceed-ing !
y slender , often scarcely ossified , detached scales , which is lost in Morphology of the Human Lachrymal , fyct 247 most macerated skulls , and seems to be quite absent in Otaria and Cystophora .
*The Prosimii preserve the same type of bone , but in adult skulls i its early ankylosis with the maxilla renders it often difficult to isolate .
They have all well-marked lachrymo-jugal sutures with lachrymo-maxillary sutures both in front and behind the malar .
Chiromys has a large premaxillo-lachrymal suture , but this I have not noted in any other Lemuroid .
Among the Primates , the two types of smaller lachrymal exist .
It is large , facial , and articulates with the nasal in Mycetes ; smaller facial , and perforate in Ateles with a wide outreaching hamulus , whose lower surface partly roofs in the infra-orbital canal .
In Cebus Pithecia , Callithrix , and Nyctipithecus it is imperforate , but has a very large hamulus , and the same form exists among the Arctopithecus .
In Callithrix , from the peculiar construction and absorption of the interorbital septum , the back of the small lachrymal is bounded by a fronto-maxillary suture , and the same exists in Nyctipithecus .
The Catarrhines present several varieties of form ; the perforate form with the continuous anterior margin is present in Cercopithecus and Macacus , while the anterior bar is medially interrupted in Semno-pithecus and Nasalis .
Macacus nemestrinus alone has a lachrymo-jugal suture , among the Catarrhines* The hamulus in all the cynoid Catarrhines is very deep and wide , extending usually to the face and spreading outwards far into the floor of the orbit .
The Gorilla has a long upper angle ascending forward to the frontal , and a short ethmoidal suture .
As in all the other Catarrhines , the lower end of the lachrymal process projects , shelf-like , forwards .
In five skulls I found a sutura notha and a sutura infraorbitalis verticalis .
The Orang has a long sharp hamulus , so placed that its edges look out and in , its surfaces up and down , The Chimpanzee has also a small lachrymal with a wide hamulus .
By following the lachrymal bone downwards among Vertebrates , something of the stages whereby it has become specialised from the inner elements of the suborbital ring of dermal ossicles , can be traced .
Among birds the bone occupies a position comparable with that in mammals , is exceedingly variable in form , not pierced by the lachrymal duct , and often attended with accessory ossicles , one ( falcons , \amp ; c. ) , two ( puffins , \amp ; c. ) , three ( Procellaria , \amp ; c. ) , or four ( Psophia ) .
Among Reptiles the same inner region of the orbit is occupied by two dermal ossicles , membraue-prefrontal and lachrymal , and occasionally by small granular accessory ossicles as well .
Among the Amphibians , in the skulls of some of the extinct Labyrinthodonts , such 248 Prof. A. Macalister .
Notes on the Varieties and as Trematosaurus , there are bones in this region probably of the same nature , and comparing these with the suborbital ring in teleost fishes such as the salmon , the innermost of the series seems so plainly to represent the lachrymal that Professor Parker has affixed this name to it in his figures ( fig. 21 , " Morphology of the Skull " ) .
The lachrymal bone has been inherited by the mammalia in its large facial form , and it participates with its neighbouring bones in the fixity correlated with the setting apart of the jaws for mastication .
The upper jaw must be fixed to give attachment to the masseter , which in most of the lower mammals exceeds the temporals ( in most Ungulates to : t : : 1^ to2^ : 1 ) ; accordingly the infra-orbital ridge is consolidated into a reversed arch with two piers attached to the skull , of the inner of which the lachrymal forms a solid integral part , and all these marginal elements tend to ankylose into a continuous bony ring .
While these conditions persist the bones retain the same relative place , and we can correlate the changes in structure with changes in function .
Among the Primates the approximation to parallelism of the orbital axes diminishes largely the extent of all the elements of the interorbital septum and is correlated with a strengthened rim of the orbit , especially with an increase in strength in the from to-jugal pier of the suborbital arch , which now bears the entire masseteric strain .
The increase in size of the cranial cavity , together with the diminished interorbital width causes the duct to become entorbital , and it descends obliquely downwards and outwards in the lower forms , nearly vertically in man ; the degree of obliquity depending on the width of the inferior nasal meatus and the narrowness of the interorbital septum .
When the duct is obliquely placed the hamulus is large and bony to bear off pressure ; when vertical the hamulus diminishes .
While the duct is thus entorbitally displaced , the plane of the teeth is almost completely preorbital , and the pressure of the teeth is borne by the frontal process of the maxilla in front of the orbit , while the masseteric tension is borne by malar bone .
Owing to the operation of these three factors , the lachrymal bone sinks into mechanical insignificance .
That it is a diminishing bone in man is shown by the early stage at which it attains to its adult condition , as well as by its great variability .
The Ungulate lachrymal bears a tubercle , which is prominent in the Rhinoceros and Hyrax , and which either lies internal to or separates the canals .
This corresponds to the projection of the periosteum , which in man forms the tendo , and from it a continuous ridge of periosteum is continued inwards and forwards , from which in Hippopotamus , Rhinoceros , and Ruminants the orbicularis palpebrarum arises .
The small accessory ossicle in the pig is late in ossifying , only showing its first trace of bone after birth .
Morphology of the Human Lachrymal , Sfc .
249 Professor Gegenbaur , in bis valuable paper on the pars facialis of the lachrymal bone ( " Morph .
Jahrbuch , " 1882 , p. 173 ) , has pointed out that the hamulus is the passage between the pars facialis and the pars orbitalis .
The former , present as a definite element in 4'25 per cent , of orbits is , as he has indicated , an atavism .
In man the nasal process of the maxilla very early projects in front of the anterior border of the ethmoidal lateral mass , and thus encroaches on the territory which in earlier conditions was only occupied by the lachrymal .
The ossification , extending upwards , stretches on both sides of those branches of the infra-orbital artery , which turn in to terminate on the mucosa clothing the front of the ethmoid , making thus the line of vessels or sutura notha .
In the development of the large lachrymal bone of the pig ossification springs from a common centre , from which it extends around the duct .
In man , in those cases wherein an ossiculum hamuli exists , there is really a second ossific centre in the bone , and in those instances in which an ossiculum maxillo-frontale exists , this bony segment of that part of the nasal process of the maxilla overlying the ethmoid has had its special centre .
All these facts are instructive as showing the comparatively low morphological value of mere centres of ossification .
EXPLANATIONS OF THE PLATES .
The following letters refer to , most of the figures .
e \#151 ; os planum of ethmoid .
e. i. = ossiculum ethmo-lachrymal\#169 ; inferior .
e. s.~ ossiculum ethmo-lachrymale superior .
f = orbital plate of the frontal .
f. v. = vascular foramen .
h. \#151 ; hamulus .
1 .
= lachrymal bone .
lac .
= lacuna .
^ m. = malar .
m.-l.-s .
= maxillo-lachrymal suture .
mx. = maxilla , o. c.= ossiculum canalis .
o. h. = ossiculum hamuli .
o. m.fi = ossiculum maxillo-frontale .
s. i. t. = sutura infraorbitalis transversa .
s. i. v. = sutura infraorbitalis verticalis .
s. n. = sutura notha .
1 .
Orbital surface of lachrymal bone of foetus , middle of fifth month x 30 .
2 .
Transverse section of nasal process of right maxilla of girl , aged about 24 .
P. ^ = processus lachrymalis ; c. \#163 ; .
= crista lachrymalis x 10 .
3 .
Transverse section of lachrymal region iri foetal skull of twelfth week .
' a = cartilaginous septum ; b and c = ethmoidal cartilage ; d == periosteum ; e = section of 250 Varieties and Morphology of the Human Lachrymal Bone .
lachrymal bone ; f*= section of nasal process of maxilla ; g = section of nasal bones .
/ ^ = lumen of lachrymal sac .
4 .
Lachrymal region of fifth month foetus .
5 .
Ibid. , fourth month .
6 .
Ibid. , seventh month .
7 .
Ibid. , eighth month .
9 .
Lachrymal bone of eleventh week , outline .
10 .
Lachrymal region of adult , with ossiculum maxillo-frontale .
11 .
Ibid. , with four ossicula coexisting .
12 .
Coexistence of ossic .
hamuli and o. canalis .
13 .
Ibid. , with large o. ethmo-lachrymale superior with o. hamuli and o. canalis .
14 .
Ibid. , with very large o. hamuli encroaching on maxilla .
15 .
Ibid. , o. hamuli and o. canalis both separate from lachrymal .
16 .
Ibid. , o. canalis coexisting with hamulus and peculiar form of sutura notha .
17 .
Ibid. , o. hamuli with vascular hole between it and lachrymal .
18 .
Ibid. , with o. ethmo-lachrymale inferior .
19 .
Ibid. , o. hamuli ankylosed to nasal process of maxilla , o. canalis , to orbital plate .
20 .
Absent lachrymal bone , replaced by backward extension of nasal process of maxilla ( x ) , between which and the upward extension of the inner portion of the orbital plate is the suture ( y ) .
There is an ossiculum canalis with a very small lacuna above it .
21 .
Well-marked sutura notha , small o. hamuli turned into the canal .
22 .
Double lower end of sutura notha , foraminated lachrymal groove and small o. canalis .
23 .
Small o. ethmo-lachrymale superius occupying the entire region of the ethmo-lachrymal suture ; maxillo-lachrymal suture ankylosed .
24 .
Persistent vertical suture and o. canalis .
25 .
O. maxillo-frontale .
26 .
Arrangement of ossicles and sutures , with vascular foramina .
27 .
Inner surface of lachrymal bone , showing its relations to laehrymo-ethmoidal cells ( s. 1 .
c. and i. I. c. ) and antrum ( a ) .
i. = infundibulum ; m. \#163 ; .=maxillo-* turbinal .
28 .
Case of deficient lachrymal , with small lacuna and no ossicle .
\Ma^aUster .
Pr'ocPoy .
Soc. Vol. 37PI .
1 .
x 30 Proc. Roy .
SocVoL .
37 .
PL .
2 .
r WestJtfev\#187 ; mist:n \amp ; \#166 ; CJ\#174 ; lifch .
Macalit'ter- Proo .
Roy .
Soo.'VoL .
37 .
PL .
3 .
W\lt ; est , ewman Sc IltJrx .

