284 Prof. T. Camelley .
On the [ Jan. 6 estimated the body to contain .
And lest the language now used by him should lead to any misapprehension with regard to the essential issue which has been raised before the Society , I would ask leave to point out that , inasmuch as the specimen of " protagon " which Professor Roscoe analysed yielded him a ponderable quantity of potassium this result , so far as it goes , thoroughly confirms what I have stated on the subject .
In the face of it , none can maintain that " protagon " is the pure chemical body which it claimed to be .
Also , adverting to the fact that Professor Roscoe 's communication refers to but one analysis I may perhaps be permitted to express my conviction that , if Professor Roscoe were led to extend his examinations over an area commensurate with mine , I should be indebted to him for further and more decided confirmation of my statements .
Finally , too , I would wish to insist on this contrast : that while " protagon , " as I have shown , always on analysis betrays the presence of matters which are foreign to its alleged chemical formula , no such conflict between fact and formula , no so-called " unavoidable impurity , " is to be found attaching to those bodies\#151 ; the kephalines , myelins , lecithins , phrenosins , kerasins , and cerebrinic acid , which I claim as true immediate principles of the brain .
IV .
" Preliminary Note on the Existence of Ice and other Bodies in the Solid State at Temperatures far above their ordinary Melting Points .
" By Thomas Carnelley , D.Sc .
, Professor of Chemistry in Firth College , Sheffield .
Communicated by Professor ROSCOE , F.R.S. Received November 11 , 1880 .
In the present communication I have the honour to lay before the Royal Society a detailed description of experiments , proving that under certain conditions it is possible for ice and other bodies to exist in the solid state at temperatures far above their ordinary melting points .
On a future occasion I hope to submit to the Society a full account of the investigation of which these experiments form a part , together with the conclusions to be drawn therefrom .
The bodies whose behaviour I propose to discuss at present are ice and mercuric chloride .
Ice .
In the case of ice the great difficulty to be overcome is to maintain the pressure in the containing vessel below 4'6millims .
, the tension of aqueous vapour at the freezing point , for it will be easily understood that if the ice be but slightly heated the quantity of vapour given off would soon be sufficient to raise the pressure above that point .
After 1881.1 Existence of Ice and other Bodies in the Solid State .
285 several fruitless attempts tlje following plan , involving the principle of the cryophorus , was adopted .
Fio .
1 .
A strong glass bottle , such as is used for freezing water by means of Carre 's pump , was fitted with a cork and glass tube C ( fig. 1 ) , and the cork well fastened down by copper wire and paraffin wax .
A and C were then filled with mercury , and C connected with the end of the tube DE by means of the piece of stout india-rubber pump tubing B , a thermometer having been previously attached by the wire x to the lip of the tube at B. The connexion at B was made tight by fine copper wire .
The tube DE was about one inch in diameter , and about four feet long from the bend to the end E ; after connexion with C it was completely filled with mercury , care being taken to expel the air from A , C , and DE as completely as possible ; the , whole was then inverted over the mercurial trough E , as shown in the figure , when the mercury fell to o , the ordinary height of the barometer .
The 286 Prof. T. Carnelley .
On the [ Jan. 6 mercury was run out of A by tilting up the bottle and inclining the tube DE .
By this means a Torricellian vacuum was obtained from A to o. DE was next brought to the vertical , and the bottle placed in the trough P. A tin bottle G without a bottom was ' fitted with a cork , so that it might slide somewhat stiffly along DE .
To begin with , the tin bottle was placed in the position G and filled with a freezing mixture of salt and ice .
Some boiled water was then passed up the tube DE , sufficient to form a column at M about two inches deep .
The thermometer H had been previously arranged , so that its bulb might be one or two inches above the surface of the water M. The bottle A was next surrounded by a good quantity of a freezing mixture of salt and ice , in order that any vapour given off from the water at M might be condensed in A as fast as it was formed , and thus the internal pressure might never be more than about 1*0 to 1'5 millims. When A had been sufficiently cooled , which required about fifteen minutes , the tin vessel G was slid down the tube DE , and its freezing mixture removed .
The water at M had then solidified to a mass of ice , which on heating with the flame of a Bunsen 's burner melted either wholly or partially , and the liquid formed began at once to boil .
The fusion commenced first at the bottom of the column of ice , whereas the upper part fused only with difficulty , and required rather a strong heat .
The fusion in this case was probably due to the steam evolved from the lower portions of the ice column being imprisoned and unable to escape , and hence producing pressure sufficient to cause fusion .
When the greater part of the ice had been melted the tube was tightly clasped by the hand , the heat of which was sufficient to produce a somewhat violent ebullition .
The liquid in boiling splashed up the side of the tube and on to the bulb of the thermometer , where it froze into a solid mass , as represented in fig. 2 .
By this means the ice was obtained in moderately thin layers .
The tube at the points indicated by the arrows was then strongly heated by the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , with the following results :\#151 ; The ice attached to the sides of the tube at first slightly fused , because the steam evolved from the surface of the ice next the glass being imprisoned between the latter and the overlying strata of ice , could not escape , and hence produced pressure sufficient to cause fusion , but as soon as a vent-hole had been made fusion ceased , and the whole remained in the solid state , and neither the ice on the sides of the tube nor that on the bulb of the thermometer could be melted , however great the heat applied , the ice merely volatilising without previous melting .
The thermometer rose to temperatures varying between 120 ' and 180 ' in different experiments , when the ice had either wholly volatilised or had become detached from the bulb of the thermometer .
The ice attached to the latter did not partially fuse at the 1881.1 Existence of Ice and other Bodies in the Solid State .
287 commencement of the heating because , the heat reaching the outer aurface of the ice first , evaporation could take place from a free surface and the vapour not become imprisoned , as was the case with the ice attached to the sides of the tube .
Fig. 2 .
These experiments were repeated many times and always with the same .result , except in one case in which the heat applied had been very strong indeed and the ice attached to the sides of the tube fused completely .
On removing the lamp , however , for a few seconds the water froze again , notwithstanding that the portion of the glass in contact with it was so hot that it could not be touched without burning the hand .
The chief conditions necessary for success appear to be\#151 ; ( 1 ) That the condenser ( A , fig. 1 ) is sufficiently large to maintain a good vacuum .
In the present case the capacity was about three-quarters of a litre ; ( 2 ) That the ice is not in too great mass , but arranged in thin layers .
Further , in the case where the heat is applied to the under surface of the layers of ice , the latter must be sufficiently thin to allow of a vent-hole being formed for the escape of the steam coming from 288 Prof. T. Carnelley .
On the [ Jan. 6 below , otherwise fusion occurs .
When the heat is applied to the free surface of the ice , the layers may be much thicker . .
j Figk 3 .
Mercuric Chloridet m. p.=288 ' , re-solidifies at 270\#151 ; 275 ' , b. p.=303 ' .
About *40 grs. of pure mercuric chloride were placed in the tube ( A , fig. 3 ) , and a thermometer arranged with its bulb imbedded in the salt .
The drawn-out end of the tube was connected by stout india-rubber tubing with one branch of the three-wayed tube B , whilst the other was attached to the manometer C. B was connected with a Sprengel pump , fitted with an arrangement for regulating the pressure .
When the pressure had been reduced by means of the pump to below 420 millims. , the mercuric chloride was strongly heated by the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , with the following results :\#151 ; Not the slightest fusion occurred , but the salt rapidly sublimed into ilijl ] Existence of Ice and other Bodies in the Solid State .
289 UK cooler parts of the tube , whilst the unvolatilised portion of the salt Kjc away from the sides of the tube and clung tenaciously in the form of a solid mass to the bulb of the thermometer , which rose con-\#171 ; iderably above 300 ' C. , the mercury of the thermometer shooting up L tke top of the stem .
After slight cooling the air was let in , and iinder the increased pressure thus produced the salt attached to the Ibulb of the thermometer at once melted and began to boil , cracking the tube at the same time .
The experiment was next varied as follows:\#151 ; About the same quantity of chloride was placed in the tube A , fig. 3 , L before , and heated by the full flame of a Bunsen 's burner .
The lamp was applied during the whole of this experiment , and the size of the flame kept constant throughout .
The mercuric chloride first liquefied and then boiled at 303 ' under ordinary pressure , and whilst the salt was still boiling the pressure was gradually reduced to 420 millims. , when the boiling point slowly fell to 275 ' , at which point the mercuric chloride suddenly began to solidify , and at 270 ' was completely solid , the pressure then being 376 millims. When solidification was complete the pump was stopped working , but the heat still continued to the same extent as before .
The salt then rose rapidly to temperatures above that at which a thermometer could be used , but not the least sign of fusion was observed .
From the completion of the solidification to the end of the experiment the pressure remained at about 359 millims. The above experiment , which was repeated three times , shows , therefore , that when the pressure is gradually reduced from the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere to 420 millims. , and the boiling point simultaneously from 303 ' to 275 ' , the salt solidifies while it is still boiling and in contact with its own hot liquid , notwithstanding that it is being strongly heated at the same time ; and that , after solidification is complete at 270 ' , the temperature then rises far above the ordinary boiling point ( 303 ' ) of the substance without producing any signs of fusion .
Under ordinary circumstances , mercuric chloride melts at 288 ' and re-solidifies at 270\#151 ; 275 ' , i.e. , at a temperature identical with that at which it solidifies under diminished pressure , as above described .
The solid mercuric chloride obtained on solidification under the combined influence of diminished pressure , and the application of a strong heat had a peculiar appearance , quite different to that produced when the substance is allowed to solidify in the ordinary way .
It appeared to consist of a mass of pearly leaflets closely packed together round the bulb of the thermometer .
Any final explanation of these phenomena is reserved until further experiments have been made .
290 Existence of Ice and other Bodies in the Solid State .
[ Jan. g !
Received December 16 , 1880 .
Appendix .
Since writing the foregoing , it has been said in explanation of the phenomena therein described , that the thermometer , though embedded in the mass of the ice , did not really indicate the true temperature of the latter .
With the object , therefore , of proving whether the ice is hot or not , I have , at the suggestion of Professor Roscoe , made the following calorimetrical determination:\#151 ; The arrangement of the apparatus was so modified , that the ice , .after being strongly heated , could be suddenly dropped into a calorimeter containing a known quantity of water of known temperature .
The resulting temperature , after the ice had been dropped in , was read off by a thermometer graduated so as to indicate a difference of '0''05 0 .
The weight of the ice was found by re-weighing the calorimeter .
So far , I have only had the opportunity of completing the two following determinations , and in the second of these the weight of the ice could not be found , as a small quantity of water was lost out of the calorimeter , owing to a sudden jerk at the moment the ice entered it:\#151 ; 0 .
) Weight of water in calorimeter , including the value of the latter =185 grms. Weight of ice dropped in=P3 grms. O Temperature of calorimeter before=13 *4 \#187 ; " after=13 '6 Rise in temperature = 0 '2 M(0\#151 ; i ) + 80W =W(T\#151 ; ( 185 x 0-2 ) + ( 80 x 1-3 ) =13(T\#151 ; 13-6 ) .
T=122 ' 0 .
Where T=temperature of ice .
( 2 .
) Weight of water in calorimeter , \amp ; c. = 185 grms. O Temperature of calorimeter before=12 *7 " " after=12 *8 Rise in temperature = 0 *1 On weighing the calorimeter after the experiment , the increase in weight was only 0'15 grm. , but as a portion of the water had been jerked out during the operation , the true weight of the ice , and there1881 .
] Effects of Heat on the Chloride , Sfc .
, of Silver .
291 ore its temperature , could uot be found .
But since the calorimeter lad slightly risen in temperature , the ice must have been above 80 ' C. From the nature of the experiment , as carried out on the present \#166 ; cale , the weight of the ice which can be dropped into the calorimeter^ jg 0I1ly small , and therefore the rise in temperature is but slight .
But iince a fall in temperature of a much larger amount ought to have been obtained had the ice been at 0 ' , it is considered that the above experiments are conclusive .
Great care was taken , in order to obtain correct temperatures in the calorimeter .
The latter was enclosed in several casings , and the water was allowed to stand in it for several hours before the experiment , so that it might first attain the temperature of the room , whilst the time which elapsed between the readings of the thermometer before and after the ice was dropped in would not be more than from 10 to 15 seconds .
In the course of the next few weeks I intend to make one or two more determinations , and , if possible , on a larger scale .
V. " On the Effects of Heat on the Chloride , Bromide , and Iodide of Silver , and on some Chlorobromiodides of Silver .
" By G. F. Rodwell , F.R.A.S. , F.C.S. , Science Master in Marlborough College .
Communicated by Professor Tyndall , F.R.S. Received November 26 , 1880 .
1 .
The Chloride , Bromide , and Iodide of Silver .
Since I had the honour of submitting to the Society papers on the above subjects , " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , p. 279\#151 ; 803 , accurate determinations , by a new method , of the melting points of the substances with which the experiments were made have been described by Mr. Carnelley .
He finds that the melting point of iodide of silver , hitherto generally described as " a low red heat , " is 527 ' C. ; of the bromide of silver 427 ' C. ; and of the chloride 451 ' C. These numbers are in all cases higher than those which I adopted , and I have , consequently , recalculated those portions of the results which are affected by the new determinations , and they are given in the following table .
The volume of the chloride and bromide at \#151 ; 60 ' C. has been taken as unity for better comparison with the iodide , which , according to Fizeau , possesses its maximum volume at that temperature .
It will be remembered that the iodide of silver in cooling from its melting point contracts like ordinary solids until it reaches a temperature of 142 ' C. , at which point it possesses its maximum density , it then suddenly expands to a volume greater than that which it possesses at the fusing point , and continues to expand as the temperature diminishes .

