32 Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26 , November 26 , 1874 .
W. SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
In pursuance of the Statutes , notice was given from the Chair of the ensuing Anniversary Meeting , and the list of Officers and Council proposed for election was read as follows :\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , M.D. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. c . .
f Prof. George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Secretary.-{ prof Hem.y Hulley\gt ; Ph i ) .
Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Prof. Alexander William Williamson , Ph. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Prof. J. Couch Adams , LL. D. ; the Duke of Devonshire , K.G. , D.C.L. ; Capt. Frederick J. O. Evans , B.N. , C.B. ; John Evans , Pres. G.S. , F.S.A. ; Albert C. L. G. Gunther , M.A. , M.D. ; Daniel Hanbury , Treas .
L.S. ; Sir John Hawkshaw , Knt. , M.I.C.E. ; Joseph Norman Lockyer , F.B.A.S. ; Bobert Mallet , C.E. , M.B.I.A. ; Nevil Story Mask.elyne , M.A. ; C. Watkins Merrifield , Hon. Sec. I.N.A. ; Prof. Edmund A. Parkes , M.D. ; Bight Hon. Lyon Playfair , C.B. , LL. D. ; Andrew Crombie Bamsay , LL. D. ; Major-Gen .
Sir H. C. Bawlinson , K.C.B. ; J. S. Burdon Sanderson , M.D. The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Paper was read:\#151 ; " Preliminary Notes on the Nature* of the Sea-bottom procured by the Soundings of H.M.S. ' Challenger * during her Cruise in the ' Southern Sea3 in the early part of the year 1874.v By Professor C. Wyville Thomson , F.B.S. , Director of the Civilian Scientific Staff on Board .
Beceived Nov. 12 , 1874 .
[ Plates I.\#151 ; IV .
] During our southern cruise the sounding-lead brought up five absolutely distinct kinds of sea-bottom , without taking into account the rock and detritus of shallow soundings in the neighbourhood of land .
Our first two soundings in 98 and 150 fathoms , on the 17th and 18th of December , were in the region of the Agulhas current .
These soundings would have been naturally logged " greenish sand but on examining the sandy particles with the microscope , they were found to consist almost without exception of the casts of Foraminifera in one of the complex silicates of alumina , iron , and potash , probably some form of glauconite .
1874 .
] e Challenger * Soundings in the Southern Sea .
33 The genera principally represented by these casts were Miliola , Bilocu-lina , Uvigerina , Planorbulina , Rotalia , Bulimina , and Nummulina ; Olobigerina , Orbulina , and Pulvinulina were present , but not nearly in so great abundance .
There were very few Foraminifera on the surface of the sea at the time .
This kind of bottom has been met with once or twice before ; but it is evidently exceptional , depending upon some peculiar local conditions .
From the Cape , as far south as our station in lat. 46 ' 16 ' , we found no depth greater than 1900 fathoms , and the bottom was , in every case , " Globigerina-oozethat is to say , it consisted of little else than the shells of Globigerina , whole , or more or less broken up , with a small proportion of the shells of Pulvinulina and of Or , and the spines and tests of Eadiolarians and fragments of the spicules of Sponges .
Since the time of our departure , Mr. Murray has been paying the closest attention to the question of the origin of this calcareous formation , which is of so great interest and importance on account of its anomalous character and its enormous extension .
Very early in the voyage , he formed the opinion that all the organisms entering into its composition at the bottom are dead , and that all of them live abundantly at the surface and.at intermediate depths , over the ooze area , the ooze being formed by the subsiding of these shells to the bottom after death .
This is by no means a new view .
It was advocated by the late Professor Bailey , of West Point , shortly after the discovery , by means of Lieutenant Brooke 's ingenious sounding-instrument , that such a formation had a wide extension in the Atlantic .
Johannes Mueller , Count Pourtales , Krohn , and Max-Schultze observed Globigerina and Orbulina living on the surface ; and Ernst Haeckel , in his important work upon the Badiolaria , remarks " that we often find upon , and carried along by the floating pieces of sea-weed which are so frequently met with in all seas , Foraminifera as well as other animal forms which habitually live at the bottom .
However , setting aside these accidental instances , certain Foraminifera , particularly in their younger stages , occur in some localities so constantly , and in such numbers , floating on the surface of the sea , that the suspicion seems justifiable that they possess , at all events at a certain period of their existence , a pelagic mode of life , differing in this respect from most of the remainder of their class .
Thus Muller often found in the contents of the surface-net off the coast of France , the young of jRotalia , but more particularly and , the two latter frequently covered with fine calcareous tubes , prolongations of the borders of the fine pores through which the pseudopodia protrude through the shell .
I took similar Globigerince and Orbulince almost daily in a fine net at Messina , often in great numbers , particularly in February .
Often the shell was covered with a whole forest of extremely long and delicate calcareous tubes projecting from all sides , and probably contributing essentially to enable these little animals to float below the surface VOL. XXIII . .
34 .
Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26,1 of the water " by greatly increasing their surface , and consequently their 1 friction against the water , and rendering it more difficult for them to f sink"* .
In 1865 and 1866 two papers were read by Major Owen , P.L.S. , before the Linnean Society , " On the Surface-fauna of Mid | Ocean .
" In these communications the author stated that he had taken j foraminifera of the genera Olobigerina and Pulvinulina living , in the I tow-net on the surface , at many stations in the Indian and Atlantic 1 Oceans .
He described the special forms of these genera which were f most common , and gave an interesting account of their habits , proposing for a family which should include Globigerina , with a sub- ; genus , and Pulvinulina , the name Colymbitae , from the circumstance that , 1 like the Padiolaria , these Poraminifera are found on the surface after sunset , " diving " to some depth beneath it during the heat of the day .
' Our colleague , Mr. G-wyn Jeffreys , chiefly on the strength of Major Owen 's papers , maintained that certain Poraminifera were surface-animals , in opposition to Dr. Carpenter and myself t. I had formed and expressed a very strong opinion on the matter .
It seemed to me that the evidence was conclusive that the Poraminifera which formed the ooze lived on the bottom , and that the occurrence of individuals on the surface was accidental and exceptional ; but after going into the thing carefully , and considering the mass of evidence which has been accumulated by Mr. Murray , I now admit that I was in error ; and I agree with him that it maybe taken as proved , that all the materials of such deposits ( with the exception of course of the remains of animals which we now know to live at the bottom at all depths , and which occur in the deposit as foreign bodies ) are derived from the surface .
Mr. Murray has combined with a careful examination of the soundings , a constant use of the tow-net , usually at the surface , but also at depths from ten to one hundred fathoms ; and he finds the closest relation to exist between the surface-fauna of any particular locality and the deposit which is taking place at the bottom .
In all seas , from the equator to the polar ice , the tow-net contains Globigerince .
They are more abundant , and of a larger size , in warmer seas ; several varieties attaining a large size , and presenting marked varietal characters , are found in the inter-tropical area of the Atlantic .
In the latitude of Kerguelen they are less numerous and smaller , while further south they are still more dwarfed , and only one variety , the typical Globigerina bulloides , is represented .
The living Globigerince from the tow-net are singularly different in appearance from the dead shells we find at the bottom ( Plate I. ) .
The shell is clear * Die Radiolarien .
Eine Monographic von Dr. Ernst Haeckel .
Berlin , 1862 , page 166-167 .
t " Mr. Jeffreys desires to record his dissent from this conclusion , since ( from his own observations , as well as those of Major Owen and Lieutenant Palmer ) he believes Globigerina to be exclusively an Oceanic Foraminifer inhabiting only the superficial stratum of the sea."\#151 ; " Preliminary Report of the Scientific Exploration of the Deep Sea , " Proceedings of the Royal Society , No. 121 , page 443 .
| 1874 .
] ' Challenger 'Soundings in the Southern Sea .
35 and transparent , and each of the pores which penetrate it is surrounded by a raised crest , the crest round adjacent pores coalescing into a roughly hexagonal network , so that the pore appears to lie at the bottom of an hexagonal pit .
At each angle of this hexagon the crest gives off a delicate flexible calcareous spine , which is sometimes four or five times the diameter of the shell in length .
The spines radiate symmetrically from the direction of the centre of each chamber of the shell , and the sheaves of long transparent needles , crossing one another in different directions , have a very beautiful effect .
The smaller inner chambers of the shell are entirely filled with an orange-yellow granular sarcode ; and the large terminal chamber usually contains only a small irregular mass , or two or three small masses run together , of the same yellow sarcode stuck against one side , the remainder of the chamber being empty .
No definite arrangement , and no approach to structure , was observed in the sarcode , and no differentiation , with the exception of round bright-yellow oil-globules , very much like those found in some of the Radiolarians , which are scattered apparently irregularly in the sarcode .
We never have been able to detect the lSast trace of pseudopodia in any of the large number of Globigerince which we have examined , nor any extension , in any form , of the sarcode beyond the shell .
Major Owen ( op .
cit. ' ) has referred the Globigerina with spines to a distinct species , under the name of G. hirsuta .
I am inclined rather to believe that all Globigerince are , to a greater or less degree , spiny , when the shell has attained its full development .
In specimens taken with the tow-net the spines are very usually absent ; but that is probably on account of their extreme tenuity ; they are broken off by the slightest touch .
In fresh examples from the surface the dots indicating the origin of the lost spines may almost always be made out with a high power .
There never are spines on the Globigerince from the bottom , even in the shallowest water .
Two or three very marked varieties of Globigerina occur ; but I certainly do not think that the characters of any of them can be regarded as of specific value .
There is still a good deal of obscurity about the nature of universa , an organism which occurs in some places in large proportion in the Globigerina-ooze .
The shell of Orbulina ( PI .
II .
) is spherical , usually about *5 millimetre in diameter , but it is found of all smaller sizes .
The texture of the mature shell resembles closely that of , but it differs in some important particulars .
The pores are markedly of two different sizes , the larger about four times the area of the smaller .
The larger pores are the less numerous ; they are scattered over the surface of the shell without any appearance of regularity ; the smaller pores occupy the spaces between the larger .
The crests between the pores are much less regular in Orbulina than they are in Globigerina ; and the spines , which are of great length and extreme tenuity , seem rather to arise abruptly from the top of scattered papillae than to mark the intersections of the crests .
Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26 , This origin of the spines from the papillae can be well seen with a moderate power on the periphery of the sphere .
The spines are hollow and flexible ; they naturally radiate regularly from the direction of the centre of the sphere ; but in specimens which have been placed under the microscope with the greatest care , they are usually entangled together in twisted bundles .
They are so fragile that the weight of the shell itself , rolling about with the motion of the ship , is usually sufficient to break off the whole of the spines and leave only the papillae projecting from its surface , in the course of a few minutes .
In some examples , either those in process of development , or a series showing a varietal divergence from the ordinary type , the shell is very thin and almost perfectly smooth , with neither papillae nor spines , nor any visible structure , except the two classes of pores , which are constant .
The chamber of Orbulina is often almost empty ; even in the case of examples from the surface , which appear , from the freshness and transparency of the shell , to be living , it is never full of sarcode ; but it frequently contains a small quantity of yellow sarcode stuck against one side , as in the last chamber of Globigerina " Sometimes , but by no means constantly , within the chamber of Orbulina there is a little chain of three or four small chambers singularly resembling in form , in proportion , and in sculpture a small Globigerina ; and sometimes , but again by no means constantly , spines are developed on the surface of the calcareous walls of these inner chambers , like those on the test of Globigerina .
The spines radiate from the position of the centre of the chambers and abut against the insides of the wall of the Orbulina ( PI .
II .
) .
In a few cases , the inner chambers have been observed , apparently arising within or amidst the sarcode adhering to the wall of the Orbulina .
Major Owen regards Orbulina as a distinct organism , nearly allied to Globigerina , but differing so far from it as to justify its separation into a special subgenus .
He considers the small inner chamber of Orbulina to represent the smaller chamber of Globigerina , and the outer wall as the equivalent of the large outer chamber of Globigerina , developed in this form as an investing chamber .
Count Pourtales , Max-Schultze , and Krohn , on the other hand , believe , on account of the close resemblance in structure between the two shells , their constant association , and the undoubted fact that an object closely resembling a young Globigerina is often found within Orbulina , that the latter is simply a special reproductive chamber budded from the former , and capable of existing independently .
I am rather inclined to the latter view , although I think much careful observation is still required to substantiate it ; and some , even of our own , observations would seem to tell somewhat in the opposite direction .
Although Orbulina and Globigerina are very usually associated , they are so in different proportions in different localities ; and in the icy sea to the south of Kerguelen , although Globigerina was constantly taken in the surface-net , not a single Orbulina was detected .
Like 1874 .
] e Challengery Soundings in the Southern Sea .
37 Globigerina , Orbulind is most fully developed and most abundant in the warmer seas .
Associated with these forms , and , like them , living on the surface , and dead , with their shells in various stages of decay , at the bottom , there are two very marked species or varieties of P. Menardii , and P. Micheliniana .
The general structure of Pulvinulina resembles that of Globigerina .
The shell consists of a congeries of from five to eight chambers arranged in an irregular spiral .
As in Globigerina , the last chamber is the largest ; the inner smaller chambers are usually filled with yellow sarcode ; and , as in Globigerina , the last chamber is frequently nearly empty , a small irregular mass of sarcode only occupying a part of the cavity .
The walls of the chambers are closely and minutely perforated .
The external surface of the wall is nearly smooth , and no trace of a spine has ever been detected .
Pulvinulina ( PI .
III .
fig* 1 ) has a large discoidal depressed shell , consisting of a series of flat chambers overlapping one another , like a number of coins laid down somewhat irregularly , but generally in a spiral ; each chamber is bordered by a distinct somewhat thickened solid rim of definite width .
On the lower surface of the shell the intervals between the chambers are indicated by deep grooves .
The large irregular opening of the final chamber is protected by a crescentic lip , which in some specimens bears a fringe of spine-like papillae .
This form is almost confined to the warmer seas .
It is very abundant on the surface , and still more so during the day , at a depth of ten to twenty fathoms in the Mid-Atlantic ; and it enters into the composition of the very characteristic ii Globigerina-ooza of the " Dolphin Rise " in almost as large proportions as Globigerina .
Pulvinulina Micheliniana is a smaller variety ; the upper surface of the shell is flattened as in P. Menardii , but the chambers are conical and prolonged downwards , so that the shell is deeper and somewhat turbinate .
The two species usually occur together ; but P. Micheliniana has apparently a much wider distribution than P. Menardii ; for while the latter was limited to the region of the trade-winds and the equatorial drift current , and was found rarely if at all to the south of the Agulhas current , the former accompanied us southward as far as Kerguelen Land .
Both forms of Pulvinulina , however , are more restricted than Globigerina ; for even P. Micheliniana became scarce after leaving the Cape , and the wonderfully pure calcareous .formation in the neighbourhood of Prince Edward Island and the Crozets consists almost solely of Globigerina bulloides , and neither species of Pulvinulina occurred to the south of Kerguelen Land . . .
Over a very large part of the il Garea , and especn y in those intertropical regions in which the formation is most characteristically developed , although the great bulk of the ooze is made up of entire shells and fragments of shells of the above-described fora-minifera , there is frequently a considerable proportion ( amounting m Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26 , some cases to about twenty per cent. ) of fine granular matter , which fills the shells and the interstices between them , and forms a kind of matrix or cement .
This granular substance is , like the shells , calcareous , disappearing in weak acid to a small insoluble residue ; with a low microscopic power it appears amorphous , and it is likely to be regarded , at first sight , as a paste made up of the ultimate calcareous particles of the disintegrated shells ; but under a higher power it is found to consist almost entirely of " coccoliths " and " rhabdoliths .
" I need scarcely enter here into a detailed description of these singular bodies , which have already been carefully studied by Huxley , Sorby , Giimbel , Haeckel , Carter , Oscar Schmidt , Wallich , and others .
I need only state that I believe our observations have placed it beyond a doubt that the " coccoliths " are the separated elements of a peculiar calcareous armature which covers certain spherical bodies ( the " coccospheres " of Dr. Wallich ) .
The rhabdoliths are the like elements of the armature of extremely beautiful little bodies , of which two forms are represented in PI .
III .
figs. 3 \amp ; 4 , which have been first observed by Mr. Murray and naturally called by him " rhabdospheres .
" Coccospheres and rhabdospheres live abundantly on the surface , especially in warmer seas .
If a bucket of water be allowed to stand over night with a few pieces of thread in it , on examining the threads carefully many examples may usually be found attached to them ; but Mr. Murray has found an unfailing supply of all forms in the stomachs of Salpce .
What these coccospheres and rhabdospheres are , we are not yet in a position to say with certainty ; but our strong impression is that they are either Algae of a peculiar form , or the reproductive gemmules or the sporangia of some minute organism , probably an Alga ; in which latter case the coccoliths and rhabdoliths might be regarded as representing in position and function the " amphidisci " on the surface of the gemmules of Spongilla , or the spiny facets on the zygospores of many of the Desmideae .
There are many forms of coccoliths and rhabdoliths , and many of these are so distinct that they evidently indicate different species .
Mr. Murray believes , however , that only one form is met with on one sphere ; and that , in order to produce the numerous forms figured by Haeckel and Oscar Schmidt , all of which , and many additional varieties , he has observed , the spheres must vary in age and development , or in kind .
Their constant presence in the surface-net , in surface-water drawn in a bucket , and in the stomachs of surface-animals , sufficiently proves that , like the ooze-forming Foraminifera , the coccoliths and rhabdoliths , which enter so largely into the composition of the recent deep-sea calcareous formations , live on the surface and at intermediate depths , and sink to the bottom after death .
Coccospheres and rhabdospheres have a very wide , but not an unlimited , distribution .
From the Cape of Good Hope they rapidly decreased in number on the surface and at the bottom , as we progressed southwards .
The proportion of their remains in the Glo-bigerma-ooze near the Crbzets and Prince Edward Island was com !
1874 .
] * Challenger * Soundings in the Southern Sea .
39 paratively small ; and to this circumstance the extreme clearness and the unusual appearance of being composed of alone was probably mainly due .
We found the same kind of ooze , nearly free from coccoliths and rhabdoliths , in what may be considered about a corresponding latitude in the north , to the west of Faroe .
Before leaving the subject of the modem Chalk , it may be convenient to pass on to stations 158 , 159 , and 160 , on March 7th , 10th , and 13th , on our return voyage from the ice .
The first two of these , at depths of 1800 and 2150 fathoms respectively , are marked on the chart " Glo-bigerina-ooze ; " and it will be observed that these soundings nearly correspond in latitude with the like belt which we crossed going southwards ; the third sounding , at a depth of 2600 fathoms , is marked " red clay .
" According to our present experience , the deposit of " ooze " is limited to water of a certain depth , the extreme limit of the pure characteristic formation being placed at a depth of somewhere about 2250 fathoms .
Crossing from these shallower regions occupied by the ooze into deeper soundings , we find universally that the calcareous formation gradually passes into , and is finally replaced by , an extremely fine pure clay , which occupies , speaking generally , all depths below 2500 fathoms , and consists , almost entirely , of a silicate of the red oxide of iron and alumina .
The transition is very slow , and extends over several hundred fathoms of increasing depth ; the shells gradually lose their sharpness of outline and assume a kind of " rotten " look and a brownish colour , and become more and more mixed with a fine amorphous red-brown powder , which increases steadily in proportion until the lime has almost entirely disappeared .
This brown matter is in the finest possible state of subdivision , so fine that when , after sifting it to separate any organisms it might contain , we put it into jars to settle , it remained for days in suspension , giving the water very much the appearance and colour of chocolate .
In indicating the nature of the bottom on the charts , we came from experience , and without any theoretical consideration , to use three terms for soundings in deep water .
Two of these , Gl .
oz. and r. cl. , were very definite , and indicated strongly marked formations , with apparently but few characters in common ; but we frequently got soundings which we could not exactly call either " Globigerina-ooze " or " red clay ; " and before we were fully aware of the nature of these we were in the habit of indicating them as \#171 ; grey ooze " ( gr. oz. ) .
We now recognize the " grey ooze " as an intermediate stage between the and the red clay ; we find that , on one side as it were of an ideal line , the red clay contains more and more of the material of the calcareous ooze , while , on the other , the ooze is mixed with an increasing proportion of " red clay .
" Although we have met with the same phenomenon so frequently , that we were at length able to predict the nature of the bottom from the Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26 , depth of the sound , with absolute certainty , for the Atlantic and the .
Southern Sea , we had perhaps the best opportunity of observing it in our first section across the Atlantic , between TenerifEe and St. Thomas .
The !
first four stations on this section ( PI .
IY .
) , at depths from 1525 to 2220 fathoms , show " Globigerina-ooze .
" From the last of these , which is about 300 miles from TenerifEe , the depth gradually increases to 2740 fathoms , I at 500 , and 2950 fathoms , at 750 miles from Tenerifire .
The bottom in these two soundings might have been called " grey ooze ; " for although its !
nature has altered entirely from the " ooze , " the red clay into !
which it is rapidly passing still contains a considerable admixture of car-j bonate of lime .
The depth goes on increasing , to a distance of 1150 miles from Tene-f rifEe , when it reaches 3150 fathoms ; there the clay is pure and smooth , j and contains scarcely a trace of lime .
From this great depth the bottom ' gradually rises , and , with decreasing depth , the grey colour and the cal- ) careous composition of the ooze return .
Three soundings in 2050,1900 , ^ and 1950 fathoms on the " Dolphin Rise , " gave highly characteristic examples of the Globigerina formation .
Passing from the middle plateau of the Atlantic into the western trough , with depths a little over 3000 fathoms , the red clay returns in all its purity : and our last sounding , in 1420 fathoms , before reaching Sombrero , restored the ooze with its peculiar associated fauna .
This section shows also the wide extension and the vast geological importance of the red-clay formation .
The total distance from TenerifEe to Sombrero is about 2700 miles .
Proceeding from east to west , we ' have About 80 miles of volcanic mud and sand .
, , 350 , , " " ooze , " , , 1050 , , , , " red clay , " .
, , 330 , , , , " ooze , " , , 850 " " " red clay , " , , 40 , , , , " ooze , " giving a total of 1900 miles of red clay to 720 miles of ooze .
The following Table , taken from the chart , gives a good general idea of the distribution of the two formations with respect to depth .
It cannot of course be taken as exact ; the indications were jotted down from the impression of colour given at the time , and there is no hard and fast line between Globigerina-ooze and grey ooze on the one hand , and between red clay and grey ooze on the other .
The Table gives an average depth of 1800 fathoms for our soundings in the ooze .
This is a datum of no value ; for we only rarely sounded in shallow water , and we know that this formation covers large areas at depths between 300 and 400 fathoms ; but the mean maximum depth at which it occurs is important , and that may be taken from the Table as about 2250 fathoms .
The mean depth at which we find the transition grey ooze is 2400 fathoms ; and the mean depth of the red-clay soundings is \L874 .
] ' Challenger3Soundings in the Southern Sea .
41 c about 2700 fathoms .
The general concurrence of so many observations r\lt ; would go far to prove , what seems now to stand , indeed , in the position of an ascertained fact , that wherever the depth increases from about 2200 to 2600 fathoms , the modern Chalk formation of the Atlantic and of 1 other oceans passes into a clay .
No. of Nature of the Bottom .
Station .
Glob .
Ooze .
Grey Ooze .
Bed Clay .
Prom Cape Finisterre to Teneriffe .
Jg 1125 1975 II .
470 1800 III .
1000 VI .
1525 From Teneriffe to St. Thomas .
1 .
1890 2 .
1945 .
4 .
2220 5 .
2740 6 .
2950 7 .
2750 8 .
2800 9 .
3150 10 .
2720 11 .
2575 12 .
2025 13 .
1900 14 .
1950 15 .
2325 16 ; 2435 17 .
2385 18 .
2675 19 .
3000 20 .
2975 21 .
3025 22 .
1420 23 .
450 From St. Thomas to Bermudas .
JC 25 .
rum KJt .
luuiui 3875 26 .
2800 27 .
2960 28 .
2850 29 . . .
2700 30 .
, .
2600 31 .
2475 32 . .
2250 1 ' ' 1820 Prof. C. W. Thomson on the .
[ Nov. 26 , Table ( cont ) .
No. of Station .
Nature of the Bottom .
Glob .
Ooze .
Grey Ooze .
Bed Clay .
Prom Bermudas to Halifax .
37 .
2650 38 .
' 2600 39 .
2850 42 .
2425 44 .
1700 From Halifax to Bermudas .
50 .
1250 51 .
2200 52 .
2800 53 .
2650 54 .
2650 55 .
2500 From Bermudas to the Azores .
58 .
1500 59 .
2360 60 .
2575 61 .
2850 62 .
2875 63 .
2750 65 .
2700 66 .
2750 67 .
2700 68 .
2175 69 .
2200 70 .
1675 71 .
1675 72 .
1240 73 .
1000 74 .
1350 76 .
900 From the Azores to Madeira .
78 .
1000 79 .
2025 80 .
2660 81 .
2675 82 .
2400 83 .
1650 From Madeira to Cape Verde Islands .
86 .
2300 88 .
2300 89 .
2400 90 .
2400 .
91 .
2075 92 .
1975 11874 .
] ( Challenger* Soundings in the Southern Sea .
Table ( cont ) .
No. of Nature of the Bottom .
Station .
Glob .
Ooze .
Grey Ooze .
Red Clay .
From the Cape Verde Islands to St. Paul Rocks .
95 .
2300 97 .
2575 98 .
1750 102 . .
, 2450 104 .
2500 105 .
I .
, 2275 106 .
1850 107 .
1500 108 .
1900 From the St. Paul Rocks to S. Salvador .
110 .
2275 111 .
2475 112 .
2200 5 .
2150 6 .
2275 From S. Salvador t\lt ; o Tristan d'Aci inha .
129 .
, , 2150 130 .
, , . .
2350 131 .
2275 132 .
2050 133 .
1900 134 .
2025 From Tristan d'Acunha to the Cape of Good Hope .
137 . .
, .
, 2550 138 .
, * . .
2650 139 .
| , 2325 140 .
1250 From the ( lap of Good I lope to Kerguelen Island .
143 .
1900 144 .
1570 146 .
1375 147 .
* 1600 From Kerguelen Island to Melbourne .
158 .
1800 159 .
2150 160 .
2600 The nature and origin of this vast deposit of clay is a question of the very greatest interest ; and although I think there can be no doubt that it is in the main solved , yet some matters of detail are still involved in Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26 , difficulty .
My first impression was , that it might be the most minutely divided material , the ultimate sediment , produced by the disintegration of the land , by rivers and by the action of the sea on exposed coasts , and held in suspension and distributed by ocean currents , and only making itself manifest in places unoccupied by the ooze .
Several circumstances seemed , however , to negative this mode of origin .
The formation seemed too uniform ; whenever we m\#163 ; t with it , it had the same character , and it only varied in composition in containing less or more carbonate of lime .
Again , we were gradually becoming more and more convinced that all the important elements of the Globigerinaooze lived on the surface ; and it seemed evident that , so long as the conditions on the surface remained the same , no alteration of contour at the bottom could possibly prevent its accumulation ; and the surface conditions in the Mid-Atlantic were very uniform , a moderate current of a very equal temperature passing continuously over elevations and depressions , and everywhere yielding to the tow-net the ooze-forming Foraminifera in the same proportion .
The Mid-Atlantic swarms with pelagic Mollusca ; and , in moderate depths , the shells of these are constantly mixed with the sometimes in number sufficient to make up a considerable portion of its bulk .
It is clear that these shells must fall in equal numbers upon the red clay ; but scarcely a trace of one of them is ever brought up by the dredge on the red-clay area .
It might be possible to explain the absence of shell-secreting animals living on the bottom by the supposition that the nature of the deposit was injurious to them ; but then the idea of a current sufficiently strong to sweep them away is negatived by the extreme fineness of the sediment which is being laid down ; the absence of surface shells appears to be intelligible only on the supposition that they are in some way removed .
We conclude , therefore , that the " red clay " is not an additional substance introduced from without , and occupying certain depressed regions on account of some law regulating its deposition ; but that it is produced by the removal , by some means or other , over these areas , of the carbonate of lime which forms probably about 98 per cent , of the material of the Globigerina-ooze .
" We can trace , indeed , every successive stage in the removal of the carbonate of lime in descending the slope of the ridge or plateau where the Globigerina-ooze is forming , to the region of the clay .
We find , first , that the shells of pteropods and other surface Mollusca , which are constantly falling on the bottom , are absent , or if a few remain they are brittle and yellow , and evidently decaying rapidly .
These shells of Mollusca decompose more easily , and disappear sooner , than the smaller and apparently more delicate shells of Bhizopods .
The smaller Foraminifera now give way and are found in lessening proportion to the larger ; the coccoliths first lose their thin outer border and then disappear , and the clubs of the rhabdoliths get worn out of shape and are last seen , !
d874 .
] * Challenger * Soundings in the Southern Sea .
45 / under a high power , as minute cylinders scattered over the field .
The ./ larger Foraminifera are attacked , and instead of being vividly white mid delicately sculptured , they become brown and worn , and finally they ..break up , each according to its fashion ; the chamber-walls of Globigerina [ fall into wedge-shaped pieces which quickly disappear , and a thick rough 'crust breaks away from the surface of , leaving a thin inner / sphere , at first beautifully transparent , but soon becoming opaque and / crumbling away .
In the mean time , the proportion of the amorphous " red clay " to the ( calcareous elements of all kinds , increases , until the latter disappear , with the exception of a few scattered shells of the larger Foraminifera , which iare still found , even in the most characteristic samples of the " red clay .
" There seems to be no room left for doubt that the red clay is essentially the insoluble residue , the ash , as it were , of the calcareous organisms which form the Globigerina-ooze , after the calcareous matter has been by some means removed .
An ordinary mixture of calcareous Foraminifera with the shells of Pteropods , forming a fair sample of " ooze " from near St. Thomas , was carefully washed and subjected by Mr. Buchanan to the action of weak acid ; and he found that there remained , after the carbonate of lime had been removed , about one per cent , of a reddish mud , consisting of silica , alumina , and the red oxide of iron .
This experiment has been frequently repeated with different samples of " Globigerina-ooze , " and always with the result that a small proportion of a red sediment remains , which possesses all the characters of the " red clay .
" In the Globigerina-ooze , siliceous bodies , including the spicules of Sponges , the spicules and tests of Badiolarians , and the frustules of Diatoms occur in appreciable proportion ; and these also diminish in number , and the more delicate of them disappear in the transition from the calcareous ooze to the " red clay .
" I have already alluded to the large quantity of nodules of the peroxide of manganese which were brought up by the trawl from the red-clay area on the 13th of March .
Such nodules seem to occur universally in this formation .
No manganese can be detected in the ooze ; but no sooner has the removal of the carbonate of lime commenced than small black grains make their appearance , usually rounded and mammillated on the surface , miniatures , in fact , of the larger nodules which abound in the clay ; and , at the same time , any large organic body , such as a shark 's tooth , that may happen to be in the ooze is more or less completely replaced by manganese ; and any inorganic body , such as a pebble or a piece of pumice , is coated with it , as a fine black mammillated layer .
It is not easy to tell what the proportion of manganese in the red clay may be , but it is very considerable .
At station 160 , on the 13th of March , the trawl brought up nearly a bushel of nodules , from the size of a walnut to that of an orange ; but these were probably the result of the sifting of a large quantity of the Prof. C. W. Thomson on the [ Nov. 26 , clay .
The manganese is doubtless , like the iron , set free by the decompo-1 sition of the organic bodies and tests .
It is known to exist in the ash of some Algae to the amount of 4 per cent. The interesting question now arises as to the cause and method of the | removal of the carbonate of lime from the cretaceous deposit ; and on this !
matter we are not yet in a position to form any definite conclusion .
One possible explanation is sufficiently obvious .
All sea-water contains !
a certain proportion of free carbonic acid , and Mr. Buchanan believes !
that he finds it rather in excess in bottom-water from great depths .
Atl all events , the quantity present is sufficient to convert into a soluble corn- !
pound , and thus remove a considerable amount of carbonate of lime .
If the balance of supply be very delicately adjusted , it is just conceivable that i the lime in the shells , in its fine state of subdivision , having been attacked !
by the sea-water from the moment of the death of the animal , may be entirely dissolved during its retarded passage through the half mile or so of water of increasing density .
A great deal of the bottom-water in these deep troughs has been last at the surface , in the form of circumpolar \#166 ; freshwater ice ; and though fully charged with carbonic acid , it is possible ; that it may be comparatively free from carbonate of lime , and that its 1 solvent power may thus be greater .
The red clay or , more probably , the circumstances which lead to its deposition seem on the whole unfavourable to the development of animal life .
Where its special characters are most marked , no animals which require much carbonate of lime for the development of their tissues or of their habitations appear to exist .
Our growing experience is , that although animal life is possible at all depths , after a certain depth , say 1500 fathoms , its abundance diminishes .
This would seem to indicate that the extreme conditions of vast depths are not favourable to its development ; and one might well imagine that the number of shell-building animals might decrease , until the supply of lime was so far reduced as to make it difficult for them to hold their own against the solvent power of the water of the sea\#151 ; just as in many districts where there is little lime , the shells of land and freshwater mollusks are light and thin , and the animals themselves are stunted and scaree .
It seems , however , that neither the extreme depth at which the red clay is found , nor the conditions under which it is separated and laid down , are sufficient entirely to negative the existence of living animals , even of the higher invertebrate orders .
In several of the hauls , we i brought up Holothurids of considerable size , with the calcareous neck-rings very rudimentary , and either no calcareous bodies in the test , or a mere trace of such .
Nearly every haul gave us delicate branching Bryozoa , with the zooecium almost membranous .
One fortunate cast , about 150 miles from Sombrero , brought up , from a depth of 2975 fathoms , very well-marked red mud , which did not effervesce with hydrochloric acid .
Entangled in the dredge , and imbedded in the mud , were many of 1874 .
] ' Challenger* Soundings in the Southern Sea .
the tubes of a tube-building annelid , several of them 3 to 4 inches long , and containing the worm , a species of , still living .
The worm-tubes , like all the tests of Foraminifera from the same dredging , were made up of particles of the red clay alone .
It seems evident , from the observations here recorded , that clay , which we have hitherto looked upon as essentially the product of the disintegration of older rocks , under certain circumstances , may be an organic formation like chalk ; that , as a matter of fact , an area on the surface of the globe , which we have shown to be of vast extent , although we are still far from having ascertained its limits , is being covered by such a deposit at the present day .
It is impossible to avoid associating such a formation with the fine , smooth , homogeneous clays and schists , poor in fossils , but showing worm-tubes and tracks , and bunches of doubtful branching things , such as Oldhamia , siliceous sponges , and thin-shelled peculiar shrimps .
Such formations , more or less metamorphosed , are very familiar , especially to the student of palaeozoic geology , and they often attain a vast thickness .
One is inclined , from this great resemblance between them in composition and in the general character of the included fauna , to suspect that these may be organic formations , like the modern red clay of the Atlantic and Southern Sea , accumulations of the insoluble ashes of shelled creatures .
The dredging in the red clay on the 13th of March was unusually rich .
The bag contained examples , those with calcareous shells rather stunted , of most of the characteristic deep-water groups of the Southern Sea , including Umbellularia , Euplectella , glypha , Pourtalesia , and one or two Mollusca .
This is , however , very rarely the case .
Generally the " red clay " is barren , or contains only a very small number of forms .
On the 11th of February , lat. 60 ' 52 ' S. , long .
80 ' 20 ' E. , and March 3 , lat. 53 ' 55 ' S. , long .
108 ' 35 ' E. , the sounding-instrument came up filled with a very fine cream-coloured paste , which scarcely effervesced with acid , and dried into a very light impalpable white powder .
This , when examined under the microscope , was found to consist almost entirely of the frustules of Diatoms , some of them wonderfully perfect in all the details of their ornament , and many of them broken up .
The species of diatoms entering into this deposit have not yet been worked up , but they appear to be referable chiefly to the genera Goscinodiscus , Chcetoceros , Aster omphalus , and Dictyocha , with fragments of the separated rods of a singular siliceous organism , with which we were unacquainted , and which made up a large proportion of the finer matter of this deposit .
Mixed with the Diatoms there were a few small Globigerince , some of the tests and spicules of ftadiolarians , and some sand particles ; but these foreign bodies were in too small proportion to affect the formation as consisting practically of diatoms alone .
On the 4th of February , in lat. 52 ' 29 ' S. , long .
71 ' 36 ' E. , a little to the north of the 48 On the ' Challenger* Soundings in the Southern Sea .
[ Nov. 26 J Heard Islands , the tow net , dragging a few fathoms below the surface , \ came up nearly filled with a pale yellow gelatinous mass .
This was f found to consist entirely of Diatoms of the'same species as that found at i the bottom .
By far the most abundant was the little bundle of siliceous rods !
( PI .
III .
fig. 5 ) fastened together loosely at one end , separating from one j another at the other end , and the whole bundle loosely twisted into a 1 spindle .
The rods are hollow , and contain the characteristic endochromel of the Diatomacece .
Like the " Globigerina-ooze , " then , which it succeeds !
to the southward in a band apparently of no great width , the materials 1 of this siliceous deposit are derived entirely from the surface and inter- !
mediate depths .
It is somewhat singular that Diatoms did not appear tol be in such large numbers on the surface over the Diatom-ooze as they !
were a little further north .
This may perhaps be accounted for by our ] not having struck their belt of depth with the tow-net ; or it is possible ] that when we found it , on the 11th of February , the bottom deposit was !
really shifted a little to the south by the warm current , the excessively 1 fine flocculent debris of the Diatoms taking a certain time to sink .
The j belt of Diatom-ooze is certainly a little further to the southward in long .
80 ' E. in the path of the reflux of the Agulhas current , than in ] long .
108-'E .
All along the edge of the ice pack\#151 ; everywhere in fact to the south | of the two stations , that of the 11th of February , on our southwards voyage , and that of the 3rd of March , on our return , we brought up fine sand and greyish mud , with small pebbles of quartz and felspar , and small fragments of mica-slate , chlorite-slate , clay-slate , gneiss , and granite .
This deposit , I have no doubt , was derived from the surface like the others , but , in this case , by the melting of icebergs and the !
precipitation of foreign matter contained in the ice .
We never saw any trace of gravel or sand , or any material necessarily derived from land , on an iceberg .
Several showed vertical or irregular fissures filled with discoloured ice or snow ; but , when looked at closely , | the discoloration proved usually to be very slight , and the effect , at a distance , was usually due to the foreign material which filled the fissure reflecting light less perfectly than the general surface of the berg .
I conceive that the upper part of one of these great tabular southern ice- j bergs , including by far the greater part of its bulk , and culminating in ; the portion exposed above the surface of the sea , was formed by the !
piling up of successive layers of snow throughout the period , amounting perhaps to several centuries , during which the ice-cap was slowly forcing itself over the low land and out to sea , over a long extent of gentle slope , \#166 ; until it reached a depth considerably above 200 fathoms , when the lower ' specific weight of the ice caused an upward strain , which at length overcame the cohesion of the mass , and portions were rent off and floated | away .
If this be the true history of the formation of these icebergs , the .1 absence of all land debris in the portion exposed above the surface of the Pt o o. Roy .
S o o Vo Z^ZZZZZ_P7x P. GIi OBIGrERIITA .
WWestSc , Co. imp .
WyriZU Th Froo Roy .
Sot YoZ .
XKLK .
FIJI .
| THWtsUy SO GRBU\amp ; Ni .
WWexb\amp ; 'Co imp .
f ytyvOUThcnusoiv:| Fig ?
1 \amp ; 2 .
PuK-mulma Fig ?
3 \amp ; 4\#166 ; Idliabdolidis , Fv35 : Diatoms , W yYesp \amp ; C ?
imp .
AAlll .
1 ( 'Q \#166 ; H. l/ tfesley nth , .
W.WestZC f imp .
\gt ; o Nouu\#163 ; .
Miles Anniversary Meeting .
,1874 .
] \#171 ; sea is readily understood .
If any such exist it must be confined to the slower part of the berg , to that part which has , at one time or other , c moved on the floor of the ice-cap .
The icebergs , when they are first dispersed , float in from 200 to 250 dfathoms .
When , therefore , they have been drifted to latitudes of 65 ' or 64 ' S. , the bottom of the berg just reaches the layer at which the tempe-t rature of the water is distinctly rising ; and it is rapidly melted , the mud j and pebbles with which it is more or less charged being precipitated to \gt ; the bottom .
That this precipitation takes place all over the area where i the icebergs are breaking up constantly , and to a considerable extent , is \#166 ; evident from the fact of the soundings being entirely composed of such e deposits ; for the Diatoms , Globigerince , and Radiolarians are present on jthe surface in large numbers ; and unless the deposit from the ice were t abundant it would soon be covered and masked by a layer of the exuvia lof surface-organisms .
EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES .
Plates I. \amp ; II .
A Globigerina and an Orbulina , with the radiating processes entire . .
Plate III .
Figs. 1 \amp ; 2 .
Pulviniilina .
Figs. 3 \amp ; 4 .
Rhabdoliths .
Fig. 5 .
The new Diatom .
November 30 , 1874 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
WILLIAM SPOTTISWOODE , M.A. , Treasurer and Vice-President , in the Chair .
General Boileau , for the -Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of \#163 ; 693 13s .
5 carried from the preceding year , amount to \lt ; \#163 ; 5726 3s .
3 ; and that the total expen- diture in the same period amounts to \#163 ; 5451 11s .
5d .
% leaving a balance at the Bankers of \#163 ; 236 18s .
8 d. , and \#163 ; 37 13s .
2d .
in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
VOL. XXIII .
D

