III .
" Ocular Spectres and Structures as Mutual Exponents .
" By JAMES JAGO , A.B. Cantab .
, M.B. Oxon .
, Physician to the Royal Cornwall Infirmary .
Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. R.S. Received March 5 , 1855 .
The present communication is a revised and modified version of a paper bearing the same title , which was read on the 18th of January and 1st of February , and which was , by permission , withdrawn .
The chief modification applies to the author 's views respecting the structure of the vitreous body as deduced from entoptical phenomena .
He is now of opinion that the arborescent system of which he infers the existence in that part of the eye ( Proceedings , p. 209 ) does not consist of tubes filled with globules or cells , as he at first supposed , but of cell-constituted filaments .
In a note , dated March 27 , 1855 , he gives the following enunciation of his present views as to the structure of the vitreous body:"In the vitreous humour are innumerable transparent globules , beads or cells , of less specific gravity than the fluid , extremely minute , and of uniform size , which are arranged , without exception , in rows to form the threads of a lax , elongated , irregular web , springing from the general surface of the capsule by , commonly , exquisitely small meshes , and extending into the interior by others of increasing size , so that the innermost part of the web-which lies nearer the circumference of the vitreous body than its centre-consists of comparatively large ones .
" Whenever the eye rotates , this filamentous peripheral system will in its relative ( counter ) rotation , gradually , though soon , come to the end of its tether , and in this interval and when there , act as a check upon the relatively rotating fluid ; perpetually reiterating obstruction , above all in the immediate vicinity of the capsule and ( by the disposition of the threads to float vertically ) most effectually in the most important or horizontal direction .
The middle of the vitreous body being free of impediment , relative rotation of the fluid expends itself there , whilst a practical concurrence in the ocular rotation ensues near the capsule .
And thus in the incessant movements of the eye , head and body , the wall that confines the fluid can suffer no severe concussions from eddies in the latter .
In other words , we have herein a provision that the crystalline lens may not be shaken , the circulation in the retinal vessels may not be deranged , and sensations of light may not be ever assailing us from impulses of the vitreous fluid , perhaps that the retina may not itself suffer direct inljury therefrom .
"

