]\gt ; Rcsea-ches on of ThalliunF .
R.S. Jwne \mdash ; Bad June . . . . .
, . . . . . . . . . .
CROOKES OTOMIC WEIGHT OHALLIUMIn tages oournal ohemical Society fpril lollatediscussed tosition ohallium among elementary , bodies , series o analytical notes .
all the information then extant , both from my own researches and from those of others , 3 introducing qualitative descriptions of an extended series of the salts of the metal .
I propose in the present paper to lay before the Royal Society the details and results of experiments which have engrossed much of my spare time during the last eight years , and which consist of very laborious researches on the atomic weight of thallium .
In these reseatches I owe much to the munificence of the Royal Society for having placed at my disposal a large sum from the Government Grant .
Without this supplement to my own resources it would have been difficult for me to have carried out the investigation with such completeness .
SECIION I.\mdash ; ON THE DETERNINATION OF ATOMIC WEIGHITS .
In determining accurately the atomic weight of a metal that stands so high in the scalc as thallium , difficulties and sources of error which are comparatively small with elements of low atomic weight are magnified to serious proportions , and require more than ordinary care for their elimination .
When so large a proportion of the compound under analysis or synthesis consists of the body itself whose atomic weight is the one quantity , it is evident that the almost unavoidable errors occasioned by impulity in the materials employed , the losses incident to imperfect manipulation , or the inaccuracies arising during the weighing from the omission of the corrections required by temperature , pressure , \amp ; c. , will all find their way into the number which is finally considered to represent the atomic weight of the metal .
Nearly fourteen years ago , on taking the chair of the Chemical Section of the British Association at Leeds , the late Sir JOHN HERSCHEL called attention to the necessity which there then was for the introduction of greater accuracy into the determination of atomic lveights .
Speaking of the numerical relations which appear to exist between certain of elements , he considered that all these speculations took for granted a principle with which chemists had allowed themselves to be far too easily satisfied , viz. that all the atomic numbers are multiples of that of hydrogen .
' Not until these numbers he continues , " " determined with a precision approaching that of the elements of the planetary orbits\mdash ; a precision which can leave no possible question of a tenth or a edth of a per cent. , and in the presence of which such errors as are present regarded tolerable in the atomic numbers of even the best determined elements shall be considered utterly inadmissible\mdash ; I think can this question be settled ; and when such rantic consequences\mdash ; so entire a system of nature\mdash ; are to be based on a principle , nothing short of such evidence ought , I think , to be held conclusive , however seductive the theoly may appear .
I do not think such precision unattainable ; and I think I ceive a way in which it be attained , but one that would involve an expenditure of time , labour , and money , such as no private individual could bestow on it Before this MR. W. CROOIICES THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
remarkable sentence was written Professo had commenced his classical researches on the atomic weights ; and in 1861 he gave to the world the results of ten years ' experiments , which had been conducted with a care and perseverance never surpassed in the history of experimental investigation .
These researches of Professor STAS , and others which he has since made public , constitute a standard of excellence which chemists are engaged on the important task of the detelmination of atomic weights should strive to attain .
They are , in my opinion , the most noteworthy chemical memoirs that have ever been written : not only have they determined in the most definite and unassailable manner atomic weights about which scarcely any two chemists have agreed since the time of BERZELIUS , but they have raised the standard of accuracy in all chemical laboratories , and have set an example which , if followed , cannot fail to exert an important influence on the progress of chemical science .
It has been with these resealches before me that I have endeavoured to determine in a manner which should approach them in accuracy the atomic weight of thallium .
In the determination of an atomic weight analysis is inferior to synthesis ; and especially is this the case when the number sought is amongst the highest known .
The method followed should be one in which as few chemical elements as possible are employed , so as to reduce to a minimum the errors arising from inaccuracy in the determination of their atomic weights , \mdash ; which errors , whilst they might on the one hand balance each other , on the other might accumulate in the same direction , and become a total error of exceeding magnitude in the atomic weight of the metal under investigation .
The method adopted should also be one in which there is the greatest possible difference of weight between the substance taken for the starting-point and the one ultimately obtained ; for the greater the amount of this difference , other things equal , the less are the unavoidable errors incidental to the method , and which may be looked upon as constant , to injuriously affect the atomic weight obtained .
these reasons processes in which a weighed quantity of the metal itself is taken and converted into one of its salts seemed likely to afford the best results ; and this accordingly is the principal method which I have adopted .
Every substance employed in such a determination is liable to introduce errors proportionate to its own want of purity .
The most extraordinary pains have been taken to secure the absolute purity both of the thallium employed and of the agents used to act upon it .
The glass and other apparatus have been specially constructed for these researches , and the balances and weights have been of an accuracy never before surpassed in any research .
Whilst nearly every other branch of manipulative chemistry has advanced to an accuracy vieing with astronomical obselvation , the operation of weighing , as almost universally carried out , is attended with grave imperfections .
For ordinary analytical work , and perhaps even for more refined and accurate researches , the errors attending the ordinary process of weighing are unimportant ; but in .
am equivalent so high as that of thallium no precaution whatever which can either cduce an error to a minimum or eliminate it ether should be neglected .
I am anxious to .
avoid the imputation of over-refinement in this research ; but considering the fallibility of human operations , and especially those of so complicated a nature as I am about to describe , I have considered it better to err on the side of too great than of too little precaution , both in the purification of the chemicals , the arrangement of the appalatus , the time devoted to each separate determination , the removal of the errors incidental to the weighings , and the subsequent calculations .
These latter have been especially tedious , as the numbers have generally extended to too many places of figures to allow the use of logarithms ; each calculation has , moreover , been duplicated by different persons .
I have attempted two entirely different methods of arriving at the atomic weight of thallium .
Had the results of these determinations differed materially , I should have extended the research to other methods ; but as they nearly it appeared unnecessary to incur so great an additional expenditure of time and material with no reasonable prospect of getting any but confirmatory results .
The first method , and that which I shall describe , consists in taking a known quantity of metallic thallium , dissolvin it in nitric acid , and weighing the nitrate of thallium produced .
The second method consists in dissolving known quantities of sulphate of thallium in water , and ascertaining how much nitrate of barium is necessary to precipitate the sulphuric acid as sulphate of balium .
In the prosecution of these two methods , the materials employed , the transferences from one vessel to another , and the weighings are reduced to a minimum , while several precautions have been introduced into the operations of weighing which are not usually adopted .
No correction has been neglected is not many times less than the probable error of a observation ; and , as I have stated , especially has attention been paid to such corrections as always influence in one direction , as in that for weight of air displaced .
Errors sometimes in excess and sometimes in defect tend to disappear from the mean of a great number of observations .
I have for the foregoing l.easons thought it necessary to dwell thus far upon the care I have bestowed upon my work .
In the succeeding section I shall describe accurately the apparatus employed , including the balance and weights , and the necessary arrangements for weighing in vacuo .
In the third section I shall enumerate the chemicals and the methods of preparing them and pure thallium .
The fourth section will be devoted to the process determining the atomic weight and the weights obtained .
The concluding section will consist of a calculation and discussion of results .
SECTION II.\mdash ; APPARATUS EMPLOYED .
The absolute weight of any substance may be found by calculation from its apparent weight in an atmosphere inches of mercury , and from its apparent weight under , say , 25 inches of mercury ; but the errors of observation , more especially those relating to the maintaining of a partial vacuum , will largely affect the result .
Weighings MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
obtained in atmospheres balancing 30 inches of mercury and 5 inches of mercury respectively will give a more accurate result ; but the best weighings whereby the absolute weight of a substance may be calculated are undoubtedly one in air at ordinary pressure and temperature , and one in a highly rarefied atmosphere , \mdash ; it cannot be said in vacuo , owing to the difficulty of working under such a diffel.ence of pressure between the atmosphere of the balance and that surrounding it .
The Balances .
Two balances were used .
That which I shall call the air-balance was made by Messrs. SSLER and NEU expressly for this work , and will clearly indicate a difference of of a grain when loaded with 1000 rain s in each pan* .
It is always kept in a dry room of tolerably uniform temperature , away from draught , artificial heat , or chemical vapours , and was ( in the most accurate experiments ) only used when no fire had been in the room at least twelve hours .
The second balance , which I shall call the vacuum-balance , is almost a duplicate of the first , of 14-inch beam , with knife-edges and planes , made by .
It is enclosed in a cast-iron case connected with an air-pump , and so arranged that I can readily weigh any substance in air of any desired density , the rarefaction being measured by a barometer-gauge .
The accompanying diagram ( Plate ) shows the method of the connexions .
The upper and lower portions of the iron case are connected by and bolts ; while to ensure that the joint shall be , there is cemented to each flange a band of thick unvulcanized india-rubber , a lead wire being laid between the two pieces of india-rubber .
By this means , and by causing the arm by which the ridels are adjusted and the key liberating the pans and beam to work in a double-packed stuffing-box , a nearly perfect vacuum can be maintained .
The openings in the metal work , through which observations are made , are fitted with clear stout plate glass ; that to the left of the centre of the case , for the introduction of the apparatus \amp ; c. , is closed with an iron door , clamped and fitted with washers .
The apparatus , when attached to the air-pump and exhausted to 25 inches of mercury , seldom allows the column of mercury to sink at a greater rate than inch in an houl .
A plug of gold- leaf is inserted in the tube .
the barometer-gauge with the vacuum-chamber , in order to absorb any mercury vapour that might otherwise be carried over .
* M. STAS employed four balances .
One of them when loaded with 1000 grammes turns with of a milligramme ; another when loaded with 5000 or 6000 grammes turns with 1 ramme , and with 2000 or 3000 grammes in each pan turns with or of a milligramme .
third balance loaded with 500 grammes turIlS with of a minigramme ; the fourth laden 25 grammes turns a milligramme .
Reducing these w to grains , we find No. lloaded with 15,432 grains turns with grain .
\ldquo ; 3 , 7,716 Even with moderate rarefaction the iron case of balance showed at first a tain amount of porosity , due to the " " \ldquo ; or phite , carbide , and silicide diffused through the metal like a sponge .
Cast-brass and even drawn-brass tubes exhibit a similar porosity .
This porosity in the casing of the balance admits of easy remedy , by painting the whole surface with two or three thin coats of white-lead paint mixed with boiled linseed-oil or fine copal-oil varnish , allowing each coat to dry before the next is laid on .
The vessel should be painted when it is partially exhausted ; the multitude of small holes then appearing in the smooth surface of the paint as it is forced inwards by the pressure of the outer air should be coveled carefully with thin coats of int .
When this effect ceases , a final thin coat should be given and allowed to dry .
The iron flanges were first planed true with the planing-machine , and then " " fined off\ldquo ; by WIfITWORTH'S process of scraping , generally employed for such work as slides of engines \amp ; c. The lead wire laid between the flanges of the iron case in india-rubbel , becoming compressed when the bolts are tightened , effectually precludes the entrance of air .
The washers of the iron door to the left of the case are of well-greased leather , while the glass plates in the other parts of the apparatus are cemented into double frames with red lead .
At first it was attempted to put nearly the correct weight into the pan , and then make the final adjustment by means of the rider .
It was , however , soon found that the more accurate method was to introduce a certain weight , and then to alter the pressure of the air until the balance shows equilibrium .
Thus , supposing a glass vesselweighing in glains has to be weighed in vacuo , calculation estimates the probable weight ( in vacuo ) at .
I therefore introduce rather less than this weight , and exhaust until the balance attains equilibrium , when the gauge shows an atmospheric pressure equal ( say ) to inches of mercury .
When this is obtained the weight is slightly increased or with the rider , and the exhaustion varied until a fresh equilibrium is established .
Two weighings at different degrees of atmospheric pressure , varying by a considerable interval , give data upon which to calculate with great accuracy what the weight would be in a perfect vacuum .
With a rider there is some difficulty in estimating the exact point at which it rests , and it is necessary to note the oscillations , placing the rider as exactly as possible on one of the divisions of the beam .
The best weighings , pel.haps , will be taken when the arc is not vely small .
Temperature has an effect upon the .-balance , rendering it less sensitive when increasing .
This is perhaps due to the varying expansibility of the arms and the knife- edges upon which the pans are hung , or the superior and inferior parts of the beam ma .
expand unequally .
The two arms of the balance at times expand unequally ; and in finding the true value of the weights employed in the determination , this cause of erlor is eliminated by following GAUSS'S method of interchanges\mdash ; the constant friction of the forccps the in transfcrring them from one pan to another being obviated by employing hooks of thin wire attached to the agate plane , upon which the .MR .
W. CROOKES ON PHE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUU .
suspension-wires of the pans could be hung .
This required that the pans should not differ from each other by a quantity greater than one thousandth of a grain .
In heavy weighings it is found convenient to remove one of the pans ; but as the case is one of determining a weight and its increase after certain operations , the removal of the pan does not affect the result , provided the weight of the pan is accurately ascertained and this weight allowed for , the apparatus weighed appearing lighter to an amount cqual to this weight .
Ahvays when weighing different metals , or glass , or some chemical against metal , it is necessary to correct for the weight of air displaced , reference being at the same time made to the temperature and air-pressure ; for assuming that there are to be weighed 7000 grains of bronze against 7000 grains of platinum , there will arise an error of nearly of a grain unless this precaution be attended to , for 7000 grains of bronze displace roughly 1 grain of air , while 7000 grains of platinum displace only grain .
At each weighing at diminished air-pressure care must be taken to allow the balance to remain at rest for at least half an hour , and preferably for several hours , in order to allow the temperature to become uniform after the alteration caused by the exhaustion .
The weighings were always repeated a second time after every thing had been allowed to remain at rest for one hour ; and when the final weighing was made , the case had been unopened for six hours , the adjustment being made by slightly altering the density of the enclosed air .
One of the greatest difficulties occulred in endeavouring to illuminate the scale and pointer of the balance without heating sufficiently to introduce a cause of elror .
The concentrated rays of a lamp were found to be unsuited in several ways .
The use of a small vacuum-tube suspended inside the iron case was finally decided upon , sufficient light being obtained with two Grove 's cells .
a small induction-coil placed some distance from the apparatus , the electricity being conveyed by fine conducting-wires of good copper , carefully insulated* .
These wires pass into the case through grooves filed in the flanges and well protected with india-rubber bands , and in no way interfere with the obtaining of a vacuum .
To prevent parallax the scale and pointer are viewed through a small telescope having a vertical wire in the focus of the eyepiece .
The observer is therefore able to be situated some eight or ten feet the balance during accurate observations , thus reducing to a minimum the disturbance due to the temperature of the body .
It is inexpedient to estimate the value of a division on the ivory scale over which the pointer of the balance travels , as its value varies with the length of arc of vibration , with the weight in the pans , and slightly with the temperature .
It is also evident that GAUSS'S method of weighing in alterrlate pans is inapplicable when weighing in a rare atmosphere , owing to the number of times the case would have to be opened , and the consequent liability to other sources of error .
BORDA'S method , as described by CLET in his * At high rarefactions this method of illumination fails , owing to the induced current passing between the lvires outside the vacuum-tube .
I would here ask whether chemists in their analytic analyses sufficiently allow for barometric variation .
The temperature at the time of weighing is generally recorded : chemists have known the influence of pressure on the boiling-point , and its effect upon gases , yet they appear to neglect reference to the barometer when weighing solids , forgetting that they are weighing in a gas which itself possesses weight .
Weighings are repeated after some operation , such as expelling moisture , at intervals sufficiently long to admit of considerable variation in atmospheric pressure , and the increase or decrease of a few milligrammes in weight is considered to determine the gain or loss of certain constituents .
It remains to be seen whether a neglect of variation in barometric pressure would not account for these minute differences .
An approximation to the true weight of bodies , that is their weight in vacuo , may be obtained by the following formula , when their specific gravity and weight in air of 760 millims. pressure of mercury at C. is known .
Let weight in grains ; then the weight of air displaced is This weight plus the value of the weights in vacuo .
the substance is its true weight in vacuo .
Let the weight of 800 grains of water in 200 grains of glass be required from two assistants , the one weighing against brass , the othel .
against platinum weights , neglecting ( 1 ) the weight of air aced and ( 2 ) its variation in weight from barometric disturbances .
( 1 ) The true value of 800 grains of water weighed in air millims. rains . .
W. CROOKES THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
That of 200 grains of glass . .
) grains .
of air displaced by water grain .
glass A brass weight of 1000 grains in use in my laboratory displaces grain of air ; a 1000-grains platinum weight , grain of air .
The weight of glass and water .
grains .
air displaced by them Weight of glass and water Glass and water . .
grains .
Less air displaced by weight ( brass ) grains true value of the water and apparatus received from the assistant employing brass weights .
Glass and water . . .
grains .
Less air displaced by ( platinum ) 1001915329 grains true value of the water and glass received from the assistant employing platinum weights .
( 2 ) In a note to the translation of DESCHANEL'S ' Natural Philosophy ' Professor EVERETT , it is said , " " In strictness the weight in grammes of a litre of air under the pressure of 760 millimetres of mercury is different in different localities , being proportional to the intensity of gravity\mdash ; not because the force of glavity in the litre of air is different ( for though this is true , it does not affect the numerical value of the weight when stated in grammes ) , but because the pressure of 760 millimetres of mercury valies as the intensity of gravity .
So that more air is compressed into the space of a litre as gravity increases .
The weight in grammes is another name for the mass .
The of gravity on a litre of air under the of millims. is proportional to the square of the intensity of gravity .
This is an excellent example of the ambiguity of the wold weight , which sometimes denotes a mass , sometimes a force : and though the distinction is of no practical importance so long as we confine our attention to one locality , it cannot be negected when different localities are compaled.\ldquo ; In one locality we have to deal with differences of air-pressure alone .
Assumed that we weighing at Greenwich , where gravity is to that of Paris as 3457 to 3456 , the weight of a litre of dry air at Paris .
at C. at a barometric height of 760 millims. , the weight of a litre of air at Greenwich at the same barometric and thermometric heights will be .
Knowing the weight of a litre of air at 760 millims. barometric height , at a lower height of the mercurial column the will be portionately , the temperature beings upposed constant ; so that the weight of air displaced with the barometer at 740 millims. by the glass apparatus and water will be grain , and at 715 millims. .
The brass weight will displace *Part 1 .
p. 141 .
IIDCCCLXXIII .
2 at 715 millims. Between 715 and 760 millims. there is an increase of weight of or , supposing .
of the substance under analysis had been taken , an increase of S nearly per cent. Again , a chloride-of-calcium tube , weighing , with its contents , 350 , displaces .
of air at 760 millims. .
Between 715 and 760 mil- lims .
there will be an increase of , or of per cent. Thus , in the estimation of the carbonic acid and of the water yielded by the organic body , the total error intro .
duced by barometric variation is nearly 1 per cent. I need not quote illustrations of the effect of such an error upon the formula deduced ; it will perhaps account for the difference from theory often obtained in the results of carefully conducted analyses .
The preceding calculations show that a simple formula may be stated which shall include the corrections on a certain volume of air for pressure and for tempel.ature .
It is 4 where is the weight in grammes of a volume ( y ) of air at a pressure and temperature the coefficient of the expansion of air .
accurate experiMR .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF ments , it will be necessary to substitute the weight of a litre of air in the locality of the laboratory for the coefficient of .
The formula , as it now stands , is calculated for the volume in litres ; if a cubic centimetre be taken , the coefficient of becomes ; if a cubic decimetre , .
For laboratory purposes , the ratio of the pressures might be tabulated ; this is scalcely necessary , if the ratio 759 : 760 be taken as sufficiently accurate , for a tabular difference of will enable the operator to speedily determine the ratio he requires .
In particularly describing the vacuum-balance , I have one peculiality to note in l.elation to the effect of heat in diminishing the weight of bodies .
That a hot body should appear to be lighter than a cold one has been considered as from the film of air or aqueous vapour condensed upon or adhering to the surface of the colder body , or from the upward currents of air caused by the expansion of the atmosphere in the vicinity of the heated body .
But neither hypothesis can be held when the variation of the force of gravitation occurs in a vacuum as perfect as the mercurial gauge will register , and under other conditions which I am now , and which I purpose embodying in a paper to be submitted to the Royal Society during a subsequent session .
Th Weights .
A set of weights as ordinarily supplied by even the best instrument-makers is never absolutely exact ; however carefully they may be adjusted , the pieces of metal which respectively represent1000 \amp ; c. are only more or less approximations to the true weights .
In most chemical analyses , the error arising from such inaccuracies in the weights used is so small , in comparison to errors of manipulation or to imperfections inherent in the chemical processes adopted , that it may generally be disregarded ; but when the chemist has for his object the determination of an atomic weight , or is engaged in other researches demanding the highest refinement of accuracy which chemistry and physics can supply , then he is bound to neglect no correction which will increase the precision of the results .
That chemists , whose well-trained reasoning powers allow them to take for granted nothing which is not capable of experimental verification , and who insist upon the utmost attainable precision in their balances , should , as a rule , neglect the probable errors which the inaccuracies of their weights may introduce , is somewhat inconsistent .
But in considering these eliminations in my memoir , I must disclaim any originality in the process , the description of the method I employed being intended solely to place others on the same footing as myself in their judgment of the possible inaccuracies of my investigations and their effect on the result .
Professor W. H. MILLER , of Cambridge , in his valuable resealches on the determination of the standard pound ( Philosophical Transactions for 1856 , pp. 811 , 827 , 937 ) , has given full directions for attaining a similar object .
These , however , will not exactly apply to the systems of wei , used by chemists ; for , of the three cases escribed by him , the former two concern a peculiar system of weights , and in the process , the small jar containing the weight was lowered into the water in the beaker , the .
After the temperature had sunk to the proper point , the specific gravity was taken .
weight , on removing the smalljar , being perfectly free from any adhering bubbles of The 1000-grain weight was selected as the standard ; for in nearly every process in which weights are used in chemistry , the object is not to ascertain the absolute weight of a substance in terms of a glain or gramme , but to determine its relative weight in comparison with that which it possessed at some other time before it was submitted to certain analytical or synthetical operations .
If the hings are performed with the same weights , it does not at all matter whether the weights are absolutely of the value which they profess to be ; but it is very important that they should bear a known proportion to each other .
This must be understood as referring only to ordinary chemical research in synthesis or analysis .
In many physical investigations it is of great importance that the 1000-grain weight should really represent 1000 normal grains , or that its deviation from that value should be accurately detel.mined ; but I confess I do not know where a standard weight suitable for such a comparison is to be met with .
The weights at first tlied were far from accurate among themselves .
I accordingly ascertained their elrors by the method described below , and then adjusted them myself according to the corrections thus found necessary .
The residual errors in the weights were then finally taken in the following manner:\mdash ; The balance being brought into equilibrium and the temperature and barometrical pressure calefully noted , the rain weight was placed in the left pan , and in the right the 600 , the 300 , and the grain weights .
It was now found that , to bring the balance back to equilibrium , a slight additional weight had to be placed on the .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF right side to supplement the three weights already in that pan .
This was noted .
The weights wele then removed to the opposite sides , the 1000 grains on the l.ight and the three smaller weights on the left .
It was now found that a small weight had to be subtracted from the side carrying the three in order to produce equiliblium .
The weights were removed and interchanged in this manner ten time so as to eliminate , as far as possible , the errors arising from observation , or the unequal expansion by heat of the arms of the balance ; and by applying the method of least squares to the results obtained , the .
equation was arlived the figures within parentheses representing the nominal value of the actual pieces of platinum stamped 1000 , 600 , 100 grains , \amp ; c. In a similar manner the values of the remaining weights were ascertained ; thub ( 60 ) ( 30 ) ( 60 ) ( 30 ) ( 10 ) ( 60 ) ( 30 ) ( 20 ) ( 10 ) ( 30 ) ( 10 ) ( 20 ) ( 10 ) ( 6 ) ( 3 ) ( 1 ) ( 10 ) ( 6 ) ( 3 ) ( 1 ) . . .
( 6 ) ( 3 ) ( 2 ) ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 2 ) ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 1 ) \mdash ; . . .
( 1 ) - . . .
- . . . . .
0 .
\mdash ; . . .
- . . .
\mdash ; .
- . . . . . . . . .
represent riders , two of which were adjusted in this manner .
; . . .
Again , adding and ; from Multiplying by 2 , 2(30 ) E. : .
houg these decimals arc carried to the sixth placc , the balance would not indicate beyond the fourth taking the mean of tcn wcighings , I could obtain a fifth place .
The calculated values the weights rried to a sixth decimal , in order to avoid inaccuracy in the fourth and fifth places wheIl summed .
MR. W. CROOKES ON TIIE ATOMIC WEIGJIT OF THALLIUM .
Subtracting from ( 20 ) By adding , twice , and thrice the last equation , we get ; ( 10 ) .
F. From equation we get ; ( 6 ) .
G. Substituting these values in we get ( 20 ) ; ( 20 ) .
H. From we get ( 30 ) ; ( 30 ) .
I. From we get ( 60 ) ; ( 60 ) .
' .
J. Again , adding and ( 10 ) Multiplying by 2 , Subtracting ( 2 ) Then gives ( 10 ) ; ; ; ( 1 ) From equation we have ; .
L. From ( 2 ) ; ( 2 ) MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIO WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
From ( 3 ) ; ( 3 ) . . . . .
From ( 6 ) ; ( 6 ) . . . . .
Again , adding and ( 1 ) Multiplying by 2 we get Subtracting from Then gives ( 1 ) ; ; ; . . . . . .
P. From we get ; Q. From ; . . . . .
From ; . . . . .
S. From we get ; Again , adding and Multiplying by 2 we get ; U. X. From we get The value of the weights thus given was , however , their in air of the pressure ; it became therefore necessary to ascertain their value in a vacuum .
All bodies displace a bulk of air equal to their own volume , and the weight of this air is of course greater as their specific gravity diminishes .
In ations this loss of weight is important .
The reduction of the platinum to their true value vacuo I calculated by the following formula:\mdash ; Let weight in air , , , , , water , specific yravity of air as compared with water ; then , or weight in vacuo , ' where , and The following Table shows the csults of these adjustments:\mdash ; NDCCCLXX111 .
of platinum , there was no accumulation of tarnish on their surface , and as they were lifted with ivory-tipped forceps to wear , they have showed up to the present time , whenever compared , absolutely no alteration .
The Glass .
The flasks and vessels used wele of the hardest Bohemian glass , and as thin as they could be employed .
When practicable , vessels of old green German glass were used ; neither this nor Bohemian glass is practically affected by ents .
Liquids were enerally kept sealed up in glass bulbs and globes , but sometimes in stoppeled green German glass flasks or in " " \ldquo ; bottles .
When liquids were kept in these bottles for a few days only , they were not found to have contracted any saline impurity from the glass , but after remaining for some weeks they were found to leave a visible residue on evapol'ation .
No cork or luting was employed in the distillations \amp ; c. ; in most cases the apparatus was blown in one piece , and the operations performed in a vacuum .
The pieces of apparatus which were weighed were entirely composed of glass suspended with platinum loops .
The fingers were not allowed to touch them after the first weighing .
The weight of tubes , bulbs , and flasks , even of hard Bohemian glass , constantly diminishes when the glass is long heated in a spirit- gas-flame ; this loss may amount * The cistern of the barometer is 115 feet above the approximate mean water-level at Somerset lIouse . .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
to several thousandths of a grain in the space of two hours when a bulb of Bohemian glass three inches in diameter is exposed to a decided red heat in flame .
Following the suggestion of Professor , I have obviated this source of error by employing a bath of pure magnesia ; and find that the weight remains constant even at a nearly white heat .
Baths of lime have sometimes been employed with similar satisfactory results .
The special apparatus that I have used will be described in the processes in which they were lequired ; I need scarcely say that in no case were materials of untried purity employed .
Improved Vacuum-pump .
[ Before detailing the processes of the determination , it will be requisite to describe the means of producing a vacuum in the flasks and bulbs employed .
In proceeding with the determinations , several additions and improvements have been made to the Sprengel pump as genelally found in the laboratory .
Working so much with this pump , I have endeavoured to avoid the inconveniences attending the usual mode of raising the mercury from the lower to the upper reservoir .
rfhe mercury is contained in a closed glass reservoir , Plate pelforated with a fine hole at the top .
This reservoir is attached to a block , capable of free movement in a vertical line , and running in grooves , and connected with the lower reservoir by a flexible tube , When the whole of the mercury has run from the reservoir , the reservoir and slide can be lowered by liberating the teeth of the cog-wheel from the detent ; at the same time a friction-brake is pressed against the cylinder .
The aim of this ment is to permit the slide-block to fttll steadily , swiftly , and without any injurious shock upon the block L. is a glass leservoir , which receives the mercury aftel flowing through the pump .
When the reservoir A is emptied and has been lowered to the block , the mercury from is admitted into A by opening the tap I. is another tap , to regulate the flow of mercury through the pump,..whilst a third tap is at R. is a flexible india-rubber tube , strengthened to withstand the pressure by being constructed of concentric layers of rubber and canvas .
is a tube filled with small glass beads and containing concentrated sulphuric acid to absorb moisture* ; it is attached to by means of a mercury joint .
are mercury joints , it being inconvenient to have the apparatus in one piece of glass tubing .
is a barometer dipping into the same vessel as the gauge-barometer , the two thus forming a diffelential system , by which the of the atmosphere in the apparatus to be exhausted can be easily estimated .
is a scale attached to the gauge .
* Since writing the above description I ve soldered a small glass tube to the lower part of , turned up and terminating in a funnel-shapod mercury stopper .
This enables me to draw offthc old acid when wcakcned by absorption of moisture and to replace it by fresh acid , and also to pass different gases into any appariltus may ve under experiment.\mdash ; W. C. , July 1873 .
to the reservoir , and raising A again into its place .
The apparatus , as thus arranged , is readily eable with inty of obtaining a barometric vacuum .
The mercury fall-tube of a pump in constant use frequently wants cleaning .
I find the most effectual means of doing this is to put oil of vitriol into the funnel stopper and then , by slightly loosening the glass stopper , allow a little of the strong acid to be carried down the tube with the mercury .
With care this can be effected without interferin with the progress of exhaustion .
The residual acid in the chamber does good lather than harm .
When sufficient sulphuric acid has run into the fall-tube , the funnel stopper can be perfectly closed by filling it with mercury .
The preceding description is of the apparatus with the most recent improvements .
During the determination of the atomic weight of thallium a pump was employed similar in detail , with the exception that , instead of the movable reservoir and flexible rubber tubing , a glass funnel with tubing of glass was used .
The mercury passing from the funnel was broken up in its fall and freed from adhering air-bubbles by the insertion of two silk-covered thin iron wires extending from the funnel to the base of the tube .
As equally perfect results can be obtained by both methods , the details should be considered as improvements for the sake of convenience rather than for accuracy.\mdash ; 29 November , 1872 .
] III.\mdash ; THE CHEMICALS .
In this section I shall detail the methods adopted in the preparation of thallium and the reagents in a chemically pure state .
Water .
dinary distilled water is mixed with a little crystallized permanganate of silver , and boiled for about half an hour .
An excess of sulphuric acid is next added , and it is again MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
297 boiled for half an hour .
The supernatant solution is then transferred to a German green glass retort , and distilled over a water-bath at the rate of about one drop a minute .
The end of the neck of the retort is drawn out , and fitted tightly into the mouth of the flask used as a receiver .
The first portions of water which distil over are always to be rejected , and the distillation is stopped when about three fourths of the contents of the retort have come over .
The product of this distillation is then mixed with freshly precipitated oxide of silver , and allowed to stand , with frequent agitation , until a few drops of the decanted clear solution exhibit an alkaline reaction .
The water is then introduced into an apparatus shown at fig. 1 , Plate are three globes made of hard German glass , and holding about half a pint each , holding about four ounces ; they are connected by tubes as shown , the tubes bein contracted at the places The water , containing a little oxide of silver dissolved in it , is introduced through into the globe , until is nearly full .
The contlacted part at is then sealed up before the blowpipe , the end is put into connexion with the Sprengel pump from which the -tube containing sulphuric acid has previously been removed , and the mercury set running .
Heat is applied to the globe containing the water , until gentle ebullition ( under diminished pressu.e ) sets in , the globes and being kept cold with ice .
This is continued until no more air , either from the apparatus or from the water , is carried down by the falling mercury .
When this is the , the globe is allowed to cool , and the tube is sealed up at , the vacuum being maintained as perfect as possible .
By inclining the tube and globes , any water which may have distilled over from into or , is poured back into .
The two end globes and are then placed in baths , whilst the centre globe , , is immersed in melting ice .
A gentle heat being applied to the water-bath containing , distillation lapidly proceeds without actual ebullition , and water condenses in , its condensation in being prevented by warming the water-bath in which is immersed .
When about one fourth of the contents of has thus distilled over , the operation is stopped , and the bulb removed by sealing the con- tracted part of the tube at ; any trace of ammonia which might happen to be in the water as introduced into will thus have been collected in the bulb and lemoved .
The apparatus now has the appearance shown at fig. 2 , Plate .
The globe is now cooled in melting ice , and gentle heat being applied to the bath containing the distillation again proceeds , the condensation this time being into .
The first portions of water which come over into are used to rinse out that globe , a dextelous movement throwing it all over the inner surface without any of the liquid out of .
After two such rinsings , distillation is allowed to proceed without ebullition until four fifths of the water has distilled from to .
The tube is then sealed the contracted part , and the globe ( fig. 3 ) , containing what I believe to be absolutely pure water in vacuo , may be set aside for future use .
It will be observed that the water , almost chemically pure to begin with , has in this mannel been distilled and further purified in the entire absence of atmospheric air .
When some of this water is required for use , the glass tube is touched at with a blowpipe-flame .
As soon the softens , the soda .
The tubes and are now sealed up at the contracted portions , and the Sprengel pump is connected to .
Exhaustion is proceeded with , the apparatus being gently warmed at the same time until moisture is no longer visible , and the mercury is as high as the vapours present will allow it to rise .
The bulb is then immersed in a freezing-mixture , and heat is cautiously applied to the bulb .
The nitrate of silver and phosphoric acid soon fuse together to a clear liquid , and vapours of nitric acid mixed with nitrous acid are copiously evolved .
The mixture froths considerably , and care must be taken that none rises so high as to pass into the bulb .
In this and the other bulbs nearly all the vapours condense , the small quantity that escapes being caught by the caustic soda in .
If , through spirting or inadvertence , some of the solid matter is carried over from into , the contents of are easily decanted back into by tilting the apparatus into such a position that the line would become horizontal : owing to the curvatures of the connecting-tubes , no liquid which might be in the bulbs or , and none of the pieces of caustic soda in , can get out of their place .
When the reaction between the phosphoric acid and nitrate of silver has been pushed as far as convenient ( too strong a heat must not be applied , or the nitric acid is in part decomposed as it is liberated ) , the tube connecting and is sealed in a spirit-lamp , and the globe drawn off .
The bulb is now thoroughly washed out with nitric acid by distilling alittle over from , letting it condense in , and then pouring it back by inclining the apparatus so that the vertical line would become horizontal .
The bulbs and are now warmed S MR. W. CROOKES ON THE AIOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
in water-baths , whilst the bulb is immersed in a freezing-mixture .
Distillation rapidly proceeds without ebullition , the acid almost entirely condensing into .
When about four fifths of the contents of are distilled into , the tube is sealed up at before the blowpipe and the bulb drawn off .
The next operation is to clear the acid in and the lest of the apparatus from nitrous vapours .
For this purpose the mercury of the pump is set gently in motion , and the apparatus is very moderately heated from time to time until the vacuum is as perfect as tension of nitric-acid vapour will admit* .
When this is effected , the bulb is gently warmed in a water-bath , whilst is immersed in a freezing-mixture .
The temperature of is so adjusted that distillation slowly without ebullition .
When four fifths of the contents of have come over , the mercury-pump working slowly all the time , the connecting-tube is sealed before the blowpipe at , and is drawn off .
The flame being then applied at the contracted part , the bulb , containing the pure nitric acid , and having the appearance shown at Plate .
fig. 4 , is removed .
The acid may be kept unchanged for any length of time , provided it be not exposed to the light .
When required for use , the end of one of the tubes is perforated with a blowpipe-flame , as described above under the heading " " Water By heating the bulb , any desired quantity of acid is driven out , when the remainder can again be sealed up .
Oxalic Acid .
Commercial purified oxalic acid is gently heated in a flat dish until the water of crystallization is removed .
Bibulous paper is then placed over it , a paper cap over that , and the heat isincreased until the oxalic acid sublimes .
The sublimed crystals are lemoved from the inside of the paper cap , and introduced into the lower portion , , of the glass apparatus shown in the diagram ( Plate .
fig. 5 ) .
The tubes are contracted at and , and the end is connected by means of an india-rubber connector with the Sprengel pump .
The air is now completely exhausted from the apparatus , and it is immersed in a paraffin-bath to a little above the first contraction , ; a thermometer is also immersed in the bath .
The temperature is first raised to F. , and the exhaustion continued until all moisture disappears from the inside of the tube .
The bath is then gradually raised to , and kept at that temperature till the oxalic acid has risen in vapour and condensed in the wide portion of the tube between and .
The paraffin.bath is then taken away , and when the tube is cold it is removed from the pump by a blowpipe-flame to the contraction ; this .
repeated at , leaves the sublimed oxalic acid perfectly pure in the bulb , and in a vacuum .
In this apparatus oxalic acid commences to sublime below F. If the temperature of the paraffin-bath be kept below 27 F. no permanent gas is evolved , and no * If acid vapours pass into the tubes Sprengel pump they do no harm , .
carried down once .
The smau quantity which condenses in the tubes may be afterwards removed by some water through the pump , and then drying with warm air , or by passing oil of vitriol through the pump .
can be carried on continuously for many hours .
The condensed liquid is next introduced into an apparatus blown from hard German glass , as shown in Plate XVI .
fig. 6 .
, and are three bulbs about 3 inches diameter .
The dilute sulphuric acid is introduced into the bulb by means of the neck , which is then sealed before the blowpipe at the contracted part .
The end of the tube is then connected with the Sprengel pump , the end temporarily stopped up , and the whole is exhausted .
The bulb is immersed in a water-bath kept at the boiling-point , and : : !
being gently heated the excess of water in the sulphuric acid goes off , and partly con- denses in the bulb , which is kept cold , and partly becomes carried down through the pump by the falling mercury .
Concentration of the acid proceeds rapidly ; and as soon as all excess of water has been thus eliminated , and the gauge of the pump shows that only aqueous vapour is present , the bulb , containing water , is removed by applying a blowpipe-flame to the contracted portion of the tube .
Air is now admitted , the tube is connected with the Sprengel ; pump , and exhaustion again proceeded with .
The bulb is now kept cool , and the oulb heated in a sand-bath .
The atmospheric pressure must not be altogether removed , S MR. W. OROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
301 or the bumping of the acid in will be very violent .
If the exhaustion is such that the mercury in the gauge stands at about15 inches , the oil of vitriol distils quietly from the bulb to without bumping ; but if the exhaustion is raised to above 16 inches , the ebullition becomes percussive .
When most of the acid has distilled over into the source of heat is removed , the mercury in the pump is again allowed to run until a vacuum is produced , and the bulb , containing pure distilled sulphuric acid , is sealed up and removed by the application of a blowpipe-flame to the contracted portions of the tubes and Acid .
Calc-spar is dissolved in pure hydrochloric acid .
An excess of the spal is added , and the solution warmed ; to it is added lime-water made pure or nearly pure lime , until the solution is alkaline to test-paper .
This solution is filtered , and after heating it to at least 16 F. , precipitated with carbonate of ammonium* .
The carbonate of calcium thus precipitated is thrown on a filter and well washed with pure water .
Thus prepared , the carbonate of calcium is a dense powder arid perfectly pure ; or , if it contain any impurity , it will be a trace of carbonate of barium or strontium , which in no way interferes with its use in carbonic acid .
The dense ranular carbonate of calcium is then strongly compressed in a steel diamond mortar into the form of coherent lumps .
These lumps are introduced into a WOULFE'S bottle , and pure oil of vitriol pouled over them .
A continuous and not too rapid evolution of carbonic aci1 commences and is continued for some time .
When the disengagement becomes vish , a few drops of water restore the action .
arge bottles must be used for this opelation to avoid the inconvenience of the foaming to which the acid is liable .
The carbonic acid is washed by passing ough solution of sulphate of silver containing carbonate of silver in suspension to the consistency of thin cream , and it is then passed through a -tube containin purified pumice-stone moistened with oil of vitriol .
Ammonia is prepared in two ways : 1 .
Nitrate of potassium heated to incipient decomposition , and then crystallized three times from pure water , is dissolved to saturation in water , and put into a retort .
Sodium containing about 1 per cent. of sodium is then added , and the whole allowed to stand in a cool place for twelve hours .
Gentle heat being now applied to the retort , ammonia ( from the reduction of the nitric acid ) is driven over with the first * This precaution , which was first suggested by Professor J. WRENCB , of Louisville , must not bc overlooked , as it is desirable to obtain the precipitated carbonate of calcium as densc as possible .
If the carbonate of ammonium be added to the cold solution , the precipitato , at first gclatinous , ultimately become more dense and settle readily ; the same is true if the mixture bc hcated after the addition of the cnrbonate of ammonium ; but in neither case it be as dense as when the is added to the hot solution of chloride of calcium .
IIDCCCLXXIII .
2 to remove the oxygen diffused into the apparatus from the atmosphere .
Thallium .
It may not be out of place here to note the most usual sources of thallium as it is ordinarily prepared .
Thallium is a very widely distributed constituent of iron and copper pyrites .
Upon examining a large collection of pyrites from different parts of the world , it was found present in mole than one eighth .
It is not confined to any particular locality .
Amongst those ores in which it occurs most abundantly ( although in these cases it does not constitute more than from the 100 , to the 4000th of the bulk of the ore ) , may be mentioned iron pyrites from Theux , neal .
Spa in Belgium , from Namur , Phihpville , Alais , the south of Spain , France , Ireland , Cornwall , Cumberland , and different parts of North and South America ; in copper pyrites from Spain , as well as in crude sulphur prepared from this ; in blende and calamine from Theux ; in blende , calamine , metallic zinc , sulphide of cadmium , metallic cadmium , and cake sulphur from NouvelleMontagne ; in native sulphur from Lipari and Spain ; in bismuth , mercury , and antimony ores , as well as in the manufactured products from these minerals ( frequently in soncalled pure medicinal preparations of these metals ) ; in commercial selenium and tellurium ( probably as selenide and telluride ) .
* Ziuc is obtained force from carbon by fusing it with a mixture of carbonate of sodium and nitre .
MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF ]fALLIUM .
300 Thallium is likewise frequently present in copper and commercial salts of this metal .
In Spain a very impure copper is prepared in the following Copper pyrites is allowed to oxidize in the air , and the resulting sulphate of copper is washed out ; scl.ap iron is now placed in the liquid , which causes the copper to precipitate in the powdery state .
The metal is then collected together , dried , strongly compressed , and heated to the melting-point .
It is brought over to this country in the form of rectangular cakes , weighing about .
each , and is called ' ' cement copper The sulphide of thallium , oxidizing to sulphate along with the sulphide of copper , is washed out by the water , and precipitated with the copper by the iron .
The two metals alloy together .
Thallium is present in tolerable quantity in lepidolite from Moravia , and in mica from Zinnwald .
It has likewise been found in the deliquescent " " sel a glace\ldquo ; from the mother-liquors of the salt-works at Nauheim .
This.consists of a mixture of the ides of ylesium , potassium , and sodium , with relatively considerable quantities of chlo- rides of rubidium and caesium , and sensible traces of chloride of thallium .
Thallium is also met with in the mother liquors in the sulphate-of-zinc works at Gozlar , in the NORDENSKJoLD has found in the copper-mine of Skrikerum , in Norway , a natiye selc- nide of copper , silver , and thallium , containing about 18 per cent. of thallium .
It occurs in the form of lead-grey compact masses , having the hardness of copper glance and a spec .
grav .
of .
This mineral has been named Croolcesite by its discoverer .
From the general association of selenium , copper , silvel , and thallium in iron and copper pyrites it is probable that the thallium is here present in the form of Crookesite disseminated through the mass .
The optical of detecting thallium in a mineral is very simple .
A few grains of the ore are crushed to a fine powder in an agate mortar , and a portion taken up on a moistened loop of platinum wire .
Upon introducing this into the outer of the flame of a gas-burner , and the light by means of a spectroscope , the characteristic green line will appear as a continuous glow , lasting from a few seconds to half a minute or more , according to the richness of the specimen .
By employing an opaque screen in the eyepiece of the spectroscope to protect the eye from the glare of the sodium line , thallium may be detected in half a grain of mineral , when it is present only in the proportion of 1 to 500,000 .
The sensitiveness of this spectrum reaction is so great that no estimate can be arrived at lespecting the probable amount of thallium present .
Many samples of commercial sulphuric acid and yellow hydrochloric acid contain thallium .
The source .
in these cases is evidently the pyrites used in the sulphuric-acid works .
PREPARATION OF COlIMERCIALLY PURE LLIUlI .
the Flue-dust of Pyrites-burners.\mdash ; This is by far the most economical source of thallium at present known .
In burning thalliferous pyrites for the purpose of manu- facturing sulphuric acid , the thallium oxidizes along with the sulphur , and is ofl MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC OF THALLIUM .
305 tin , arsenic , antimony , bismuth , lead , mercury , and silver , is separated by filtration , and the filtrate is boiled till all free hydrosulphuric acid is removed .
The liquid is now to be rendered alkaline with ammonia and boiled ; the precipitate of iron and alumina , which generally appears in this piace , is filtered off , and the clear solution evaporated to a small bulk .
Sulphate of thallium will then separate out on in the form of long , clear prismatic crystals .
As sulphate of ammonium is much more soluble than sulphate of thallium , the latter can readily be separated from the small quantity of the former salt present .
The two salts do not crystallize together .
In order to avoid the inconvenience of driving off the excess of oil of vitnol in the decomposition of chloride of thallium , it is less troublesome , although not quite so economical , to proceed as follows :Boil the chloride of thallium in solution of sulphide of ammonium for five minutes : decomposition takes place readily .
Filter and wash with sulphuretted water till no more chlorine can be detected in the filtrate ; then dissolve the sulphide on the filter in dilute sulphuric acid , and treat the solution with ammonia \amp ; c. , as above directed .
In order to obtain the metal when working on small quantities of material , sulphate thallium is dissolved in twenty times its weight ofWater ; the liquid is acidulated with sulphuric acid , and a current of electricity from two or three cells of GROVE'S battelies is passed through it , platinum terminals being used .
The appearance presented when a tolerably strong solution of thallium is undergoing reduction is very beautiful .
If the energy of the current bears a proper propoltion to the and acidity of the liquid , no is evolved at the ative electrode , but the metal grows from it in large crystalline fern-like branches , spreading out into brilliant metallic plates , and darting long needle-shaped crystals , sometimes upwards of an inch in length , towards the positive pole , the appearance more beautiful than with any other metal .
Some of the tabular crystals , as seen in the liquid , are beautifully sharp and well defined ; considerable difficulty , however , is met with in disengaging them from the electrode , and removing them in a perfect state from the liquid .
So long as thallium is present in the solution , no hydrogen is evolved with a moderate strength of current ; as soon as bubbles of gas are evolved , the reduction may be considered complete .
The crystalline metallic sponge may now be squeezed into a mass round the platinum terminal , disconnected from the battery , quickly removed from the acid liquid , rinsed with a jet from a wash-bottle , and transferred to a basin of pure water .
The metal is then carefully removed from the platinum , and kneaded with the fingers into as solid a lump as possible .
It coheres readily by pressule , and will be found to retain its metallic lustre perfectly under water .
When considerable quantities of thallium are to be reduced to the metallic state , it is convement to employ metallic zinc for the purpose .
In the course of twenty-four hours I have reduced upwards of a quarter of a hundredweight of the metal in the followin{ \mdash ; Plates of pure zinc ( which should leave no residue whatever when dissolved in sulphuric acid ) are arranged vertically round the sides of a deep porcelain dish a gallon .
Crystallized sulphate of thallium , in quantities of about seven pounds The pyrites , broken up into pieces of the size of a walnut , is distilled in hexagonal cast-iron pipes , closed at one end , and alranged in a reverberatory furnace .
Conical S sheet-iron tubes are luted on to the open ends , and the retorts are kept at a bright red heat for about four hours .
At the end of the operation the receivers are found to contain from .
to .
of dark green or -coloured sulphur for every of ore used .
The whole of the thallium inally in the pyrites will be found in this sulphur , from which it has now to be separated .
The sulphur may be dissolved out by means of bisulphide of carbon , which leaves the sulphide of thallium behind ; or it may be extracted by boiling with caustic soda .
The former plan occasions less loss of thallium , but , owing to the inconvenience of working with large bulks of bisulphide of carbon , the soda process is preferable . .
of caustic soda , .
of the thalliferous sulphur , and gallon of water are boiled together till the sulphur has dissolved ; 6 allons ofwater are added , and the clear liquid , when cool , is decanted from a voluminous black precipitate , which has been separated from the sulphur .
The precipitate is then collccted on a calico filter and washed .
It contains the greater portion of the thallium in the form of sulphide , together with iron , copper , mercury , zinc , \amp ; c. Some thallium , wards leduced as already described . .
From the Mother-liquors of the Sulphate-of .
Zinc Works at Goslar.\mdash ; Each kiiogramme of these liquors is said to yield as much as half a gramme of chloride of A sheet of zinc is plunged into the liquid , whereby the thallium , copper , and cadmium are precipitated .
The metallic sponge is then removed from the zinc , washed , and treated with cold dilute sulphuric acid , which dissolves the dInium and thallium with disengagement of hydrogen , whilst the copper is lcft behind .
The filtrate from the copper is then mixed with hydrochloric acid , which the ncally insoluble chloride of thallium .
If only a small quantity of thallium is present , iodide of potassium may be used as a precipitant , as the iodide of thallium is insoluble in water .
EPARATION OF CHEMICALLY PIJRE TIfALLIUM . .
Commercial sulphate of thallium is dissolved in water , and the cold solution with sulphuretted hydrogen .
It is then filtered , heated to ebullition , and poured into dilute hydrochloric acid .
The solution is filtered whilst hot and then allowed to cool .
The chlol .
id of thallium which crystallizes out on cooling is washed by decantation until the washings are free from sulphuric acid , and further purified by twice from water .
The chloride of thallium thus obtained is dried , mixed with pure carbonate of sodium , and projected by small portions at a time into pure cyanide of potassium kept in a state of fusion in a white unglazed crucible .
chloride is lapidly reduced to the metallic state ; the crucible is then allowed to cool , and the contents exhausted with water .
The resulting ingot of metal is well boiled in water , dried and fused over a spirit-lam an unglazed porcelain crucible with free access of air , stirred with a polcelain rod to facilitate oxidation , and finally cast in a porcelain mould .
It may be preserved under water which has been boiled to expel the air .
This metal was used in the determinations A and B. .
Ordinary metallic thallium is fused in contact with the air , in an iron clucible made nearly red-hot , and then poured into water .
The granulated metal is then exposed to a warm atmosphere to facilitate oxidation , the oxide being frequently removed by boiling out with water .
When a considerable quantity of oxide ( mixed with carbonate ) has been obtained , the solution is heated to ebullition , and a rapid current of carbonic-acid gas passed through until the liquid is quite cold , and the excess of carbonate of thallium has crystallized out .
The resulting salt is recrystaJlized and projected into pure cyanide of potassium kept in a state of fusion in a porcelain crucible at a dull red heat ; carbonic acid escapes with effervescence , and the metal is reduced to the metallic state .
The whole is then allowed to cool , the soluble lts boiled out with water , and the lump of thallium fused over an alcohol-lamp in a lime crucible and cast in a lime mould as described further on .
With this ingot of tha.llium the determina- tion was effected . .
Carbonate of thallium , obtained as in process , is covered with a small quantity of water , and decomposed by the current from six GROVE'S cells .
Much peroxide of thallium is deposited , which is removed preserved for the preparation of thallium by another method .
The reduced thallium is then squeezed into a hard cake , melted in a lime crucible heated by means of a spirit-lamp , and cast in a lime mould .
This metal was employed in the detelmination D. .
A third poltion of carbonate of thallium , obtained as in process , is crystallized several times water , carbonic acid being passed through during the cooling of the solution .
After six crystallizations the is perfectly white .
It is then placed in a porcelain dish , covered with a little water , and decomposed by four GROV cells .
*A spirit-flame is preferable to one of coal-gas , as the latter contains operation requires this peroxidc of thallium to be constautly removed from the positive pole , or the passage of the will be retarded and ultimately stopped .
MR. W. CROOKES ON TIIE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUNI .
309 The spongy metal is washed , boiled in pure water , tied up in a linen cloth , and compressed between steel plates in a vice .
The hard lump is broken up , put into a porcelain crucible and melted over a spirit-lamp , no flux used other than the thallium oxide formed on heating .
The metal is constantly stirred with a piece of unglazed porcelain and cast in a warm in mould .
With thallium prepared in this manner the synthetical opelations and were performed . .
The peroxide of thallium obtained by the electrolysis of the carbonate ( processes and d ) is dissolved in purified sulphuric acid , evaporated to dryness , and heated strongly to decompose any sulphate of peroxide ; it is then dissolved in water and recrystallized twice .
The sulphate of thallium is then reduced to the metallic state by three of GROVE'S cells , platinum terminals .
employed .
The metal is squeezed into a lump and melted under hydrogen in a porcelain crucible , and cast in a polished steel mould , the heat in this case being produced by the combustion of pure hydrogen gas .
The thallium purified as above was used in the operation G. .
Chloride of thallium , as obtained by method , is boiled in nitric acid till most of it is converted into sesquichloride .
This is washed by decantation until it begins to decompose with separation of peroxide of thallium , and purified by twice recrystallizing .
The purified of thallium is dissolved in boiling water and poured into dilute ammonia .
The precipitated peroxide of thallium is washed by decantation till chlorine is no longer detected in the washings , and then boiled in a little water with pure sublimed oxalic acid till the whole is converted into oxalate of thallium .
This is dried and heated in a crucible until the whole is decomposed into a mixture of metallic thallium and oxide of thallium ; the reduced metal is then cast in a mould of polished steel .
The ingot was employed in the determination H. .
Ordinary thallium is dissolved in nitric acid , and the excess of acid driven off by heat , the residue is dissolved in water , and the solution saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen .
A slight black precipitate is generally formed , the solution is filtered cold , and is then freed from sulphuretted hydrogen by boiling .
Ammonia is then added , which generally produces a faint precipitate of sesquioxide of iron and peroxide of thallium ; it is then filtered , and the solution is mixed with oxalate of ammonium and concentrated till the oxalate of ] lium crystallizes out .
This is freed from nitrate ammonium by recrystallizing , and the oxalate of thallium decomposed by heat , as in process .
The thallium thus obtained is again fused in a lime crucible , blowpipeflame bein directed downwards on to the surface of the fused metal for about five minutes , till the slag of thallium oxide has united with the lime , forming a semifluid pasty mass .
The metal is then cast in a lime mould , washed when cold , and kept under boiled distilled water or very dilute acetic acid .
With metal purified in this manner the estimations I and were performed .
Purification of Thallium by Fusion in Lime .
A piece of well burnt , very dense quick-lime , prepared from black marble , is cut out NDCCCLXX111 .
by errors in observation ; and the conversion of thallium into its nitrate has been that ultimately adopted .
Pure thallium , obtained as described , is cut up into small bars with a very sharp steel knife , and dropped into a dish of pure water }htly warmed , and , the substratum to an atmosphere of carbonic acid in a vessel large enough to admit both hands easily .
In this bath the original surface of the ingot is removed and rejected .
The bars are then well lubbed with fine cambric to smooth down all sharp edges .
Any pieces which contain pores are rejected A stoppered tube ( Plate .
fig. 7 ) is half filled with water and weighed .
The bars * An error of grain in the weighing accumulates to an error of in the atomic weight .
The upper surface of the fused lump is full of.pores for a depth of one sixteenth of an inch ; one quarter inch is therefore removed for greater certainty .
MR. W. CROOKES ON THE POMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
of thallium are then quickly removed from the warm water of the carbonic-acid bath , rapidly wiped dry with warm cambric while in the carbonic acid , and put into the weighed tube of water .
It is found that no appreciable oxidation takes place during this transference , and that the whole of the moisture can be removed .
The tube and its contents are then weighed again .
Fig. 8 represents a vessel for the conversion of thallium into its nitrate , the pure metal as weighed in the malmer described above in a tube of water placed in the bulb , and the pure nitric acid in .
The tubes are accurately ground and fitted to each other at is a pelmanent stopper to the upper bulb , well ground .
and platinum wires for the support of the flask in the balance .
The process of the thallium into its nitrate coincides in detail with this apparatus with the process ultimately adopted , and particularly described in the succeeding pages .
With an ratus of this kind the determination A was performed , the metal bein purified by the process already described under ( p. 308 ) .
is a further improvement .
nitric acid in acting upon the metal in evolves fumes , which mechanically carry off traces of nitrate of thallium .
In the vessel shown in fig. 8 these fumes are washed in the nitlic acid , offering , however , no gleat advantage ; but in the series of bulbs shown in fig. 9 , contains the nitric acid , which can , by means of the tap , be admitted in the required quantity to the metal .
The fumes are washed in the water contained in , the water being evaporated to obtain the nitrate of thallium held in solution .
In this apparatus , and with metal purified by the process described under the letter , the determination was effected .
The metallic thallium is weighed sealed up in hydrogen in the following manner:\mdash ; The lump or of pure metallic thallium by the process , already described , is cut up into rams , all the original surface being removed with a very sharp steel knife .
The parallelograms , immersed and boiled in very dilute sulphuric and hydrochloric acids , are subsequently washed , boiled repeatedly in water , and then transferred to the glass tube , fig. 10 .
Into this tube pass and are fused the platinum wires , these wires being the reducing and oxidizing electrodes respectively in connexion with two GROVE'S elements .
At the tube is drawn out to a fine orifice , and at is passed in a current of pure hydrogen prepared as before described , as shown in fig. 10 A. The electric current being passed through the water , to preserve the pure metallic surface of the thallium , heat is applied until the .
is entirely volatilized .
At this point , and while the tube is very hot , the hydrogen still passing , the end of the tube at is sealed up , and then the tube at , previously much contracted , is closed before the blowpipe .
The metal is thus enclosed hermetically in an atmosphele of pure hydrogen .
The tube and its contents are then cooled for six hours , when cooled , weighed first in air and then in the vacuum-balance .
The tube is now cut acloss the middle with a cutting diamond , wrapped up in smooth platinum-foil to secure splinters of glass which might be thrown off , and then oken with a sharp blow opposite the cut .
The thallium is carefully removed from the pieces of tube , and introduced of accuracy than were those at first employed , I will describe the apparatus , its employment , and the several processes performed in it somewhat in detail .
Some of the metallic thallium prepared by one of the methods already described is cut by means of a sharp steel knife into prisms about one eighth inch square and half an ch long , no particular care being taken to avoid oxidation .
The prisms are boiled in dilute hydrochloric acid to remove any trace of iron which the knife might have communicated .
They then washed in water , dried with blottin-paper , and introduced into the cylindrical portion , fig. 11 , of the apparatus .
The outer extremity of is then drawn out and sealed before the bl.owpipe .
The end is also sealed up and the horizontal tube is connected to the Sprengel pump and a vacuum obtained , the appaatus and the thallium being kept warm to drive off any moisture which might have been introduced with the thallium .
When the vacuum is pel .
fact the tube is sealed at .
The apparatus , sealed up and entirely free from air , is now laid on its side , and the cylinder and the bulb imbedded in a bath of ynesia held in a copper vessel heated by gas .
The temperature is then raised to above the point of thallium when by careful manipulation the oxide may be separated from the liquid metal and the greater part of the oxide collected at the closed end of the cylinder magnesia is then removed from about the narrow part of the tube ( which should be somewhat long and very much contracted ) , and by a dexterous movement the magnesia-bath containing the apparatus is suddenly tilted up and the liquid metal allowed to run ough the contracted part into the bulb .
In some instances portions of oxide or of stick in the channel , then the operation is lost and a fresh attempt has to MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUlf .
313 be made with another apparatus ; but if the channel is entirely or in great part clear , it may be sealed up at the contraction , care being taken to apply the heat at such a place that no particles of metal or oxide are entangled in the fused glass .
The apparatus has now the form shown in fig. 12 .
It is hermetically sealed , entirely free from air , and contains a certain quantity of pure metallic thallium entirely free from oxide and as brilliant as mercury .
The next operation is to ascertain the combined weight of the apparatus and metal .
It is washed on the outside with dilute sulphuric acid to remove any particles of magnesia that might adhere to it , and after rinsing with water is dried and gently warmed .
Its weight is then taken in the air-balance\mdash ; not necessarily with extreme accuracy , but to enable a calculation to be made as to how much it will probably weigh in the vacuum- balance at a greatly reduced atmosphelic pressure .
As the substance weighed consists of thallium and glass in unknown proportions , the vacuum-weight cannot be calculated with any approach to accuracy ; but it is generally easy to arrive at some approximation to the relative proportions of thallium and glass , and in this manner the probable vacuumweight may be estimated .
The apparatus is now transferred to the vacuum-balance , and put which it is judged will balance it at an atmospheric pressure a few barometric inches of a vacuum .
The balance-case is then sealed up , and the exhaustion proceeded with .
As the ' rarefaction proceeds , the beam is occasionally liberated until it is found that the apparatus and weight are in equipoise .
If the barometer-gauge shows a rarefaction not equal to 25 inches of mercury , the air had better be let in , the requisite additional weight added , and the exhaustion recommenced ; but if , when the balance is in equilibrium , the rarefaction is above 25 inches , the weighing may be continued .
Two sources of error have now to be guarded against:\mdash ; 1 .
The alteration of temperature inside the iron case consequent on the rarefaction .
2 .
The slow and almost unavoidable leakage of air iuto the balance through the iron , the numerous joints , and the stuffing-boxes .
This leakage should not exceed inch in an hour .
Equilibrium having been obtained , two or three extra strokes are made with the airpump , and the exhaustion raised to such a point that by about six hours ' the balance is again in equipoise .
The weights will at first appear lighter than the apparatus .
The balance is allowed to remain well protected from external thermal influences , until the time has nearly arrived when the leakage of air into its interior has reduced the rarefaction to the point at which the weights and apparatus will be exactly in equilibrium .
observer now enters the room , and after liberating the beam and setting it in oscillation , watches the moyements of the index a telescope fixed 10 feet off .
By reason of the gradual leakage of air the inequality of the oscillations gradually diminishes , until at last the arcs are of the same value .
At this moment the temperature inside and outside the balance-case , the height of the barometer-gauge , and the reading of the standard barometer are observed .
Six hours are generally sufficient to restore the temperature reduced by the exhaustemperatures are uniform , the weight is again taken .
For the final adjustment of the weight the rider may be Used .
I , however , prefer , as * being more acculate , to place a weight slightly in excess in the pan opposite to the appal.atus to be weighed , and then , having sealed up the balance , to exhaust a little beyond the point of equilibrium of weight , and continue the operation exactly as in weighing in a rare atmosphere .
By taking care that the air contained in the balance at shall only be an inch or so rarer than the external atmosphere , the data afforded by the two weighings will be sufficient to enable the true vacuum-weight of the apparatus to be calculated with accuracy .
This method of ascertaining minute differences of weight , not by the addition to , or subtraction of , material weights from one arm of a balance , but by varying the density of the air in which the operation is performed , is , I believe , attended with a greater approach to accuracy than the method adopted .
It can , however , only be adopted when the weights and the substance weighed differ in specific gravity .
The data for ascertaining the weight of the apparatus and the thallium it contains have now been obtained .
The next operation is to convert the thallium into nitrate .
For this purpose , the tube ( Plate .
fig. 12 ) must be opened ; and to effect this without any risk of losing particles of glass , I gently warm the extremity in a spirit-lamp , and then apply the tip of a blowpipe-flame to the warm glass .
The atmospheric outside acting against the vacuum inside , immediately perforates a small hole through the glass , into which the air rushes .
Some nitlic acid , purified in the manner described , is now removed from the bulb in which it has remained sealed up , and a little is introduced into the bulbs and the globe ; this is readily effected by alternately warming and cooling , the perforation / dipping under the acid .
Sufficient nitric acid must be introduced to three quarters fill the two lower bulbs , and also to moisten the thallium in the globe .
The apparatus is then placed in a position , and the quantity of acid in the bulbs is regulated so as to allow air-bubbles to pass in either direction and be washed without spirting acid out .
No reaction , or scarcely any , between strong nitric acid and thallium takes place in the cold ; but on applying gentle heat the metal is attacked , and becomes rapidly converted into nitrate .
The quantity of acid which is allowed to act at a time must be very nited ; and the temperature should not be higher than is sufficient to prevent the nitrate of thallium formed clystallizing on the metal and interfering too much with the action .
As soon as the action ceases , a little nitric acid from the washing-bulbs is allowed to into the globe , its place being supplied with fresh acid .
hen cold , the crystallization .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
of the nitrate of thallium entilelyprevents the reaction between the metal and acid , but on warming , the salt dissolves and the action proceeds .
The vapours of nitric and nitrous oxide , which are evolved in abundance , are washed by passing through the system of bulbs , and the reaction must be onlyjust sufficient to cause them to pass through'slowly .
In course of time the whole of the thallium is dissolved , and the most tedious part of the process then commences\mdash ; the evaporation of the excess of free acid .
For this purpose an apparatus is used lepresented in Plate XVII .
is the apparatus co:mected by a wide tube , , and a narrower glass tube with a bottle , .
This is in connexion with a BUNSEN'S water-pump , , having 18 feet fall of water , and capable of producing an exhaustion equal to 10 inches of mercury .
The water is supplied to this pump by an independent pipe and tap attached to a large cistern , so that it can be allowed to work continuously day and nightwithout interferingwith the oldinary watersupply of the .
The apparatus is enclosed in a glass case , and stands in an air-bath , the temperature of which can be kept constant by means of a gas-regulator .
The water of the pump being set in motion , and a temperature of about F. being maintained in the air-bath , evaporation of the nitric acid commences , the vapour partly condensing in the bottle , and partly being carried away through the pump .
As the evaporation of the acid proceeds the temperature is gradually laised , until ultimately it becomes as high as F. , which must not be exceeded in this stage of the operation .
In course of time ( varying from a few days to as many weeks , according to the quantity of acid to be drawn off , and the size of the perforation which it is to pass ) the nitrate of thallium is left in the form of dry white crystals .
pump is then stopped , and air allowed to enter the apparatus by opening the pinch-cock , , connected with the chloride-of.calcium tubes , .
The apparatus being cooled , water is added to the nitrate of thallium in the proportion of bulk for bulk , about 1 grain of oxalic aci being dissolved in the water .
Heat is then applied , and the solution boiled until all the nitrate of thallium is dissolved , forming a clear colourless liquid , which deposits on cooling brilliantly white crystals of nitrate of The nitric acid having been previously removed from the bottle and the lest of the tubes , the apparatus is again fitted to the pump .
It is heated in the air-bath , and the water gradually drawn out under diminished pressure , the temperature being kept a little below the point of ebullition of the liquid .
When apparently dry the heat is very carefully raised to 39 F. , at which temperature the crystals of nitrate of thallium melt ; a little froth at first breaks the surface , but this soon disappears , ftnd the liquid becomes as clear and colourless as water .
If sufficient oxalic acid been added to decomllose * If the action of nitric acid on thallium is allowed to become too violcut , or if the of thallium is long with excess of nitric acid , a little pernitrate of thallium is formed , on subsequent fusion of the nitrate deposits a powder of peroxide of thallium .
Tho oxalic acid is therefore added to decomposc tho pernitrate of thallium .
The excess of oxalic acid disappcars with the last of nitric ncid and water .
Nitrate of thallium is soluble in 9.4 times its weight of water at F. , and less than one foul of its bulk of boiling water .
The stals deposited on are anhydrous .
along with the apparatus in all the subsequent weighings .
The apparatus is of the form shown in fig. .
It contains nothing but the pure nitrate of thallium produced the action of nitric acid on the thallium at first introduced , and is entirely free from air .
It is now , with the loose piece of tube belonging to it , to be weighed in the vacuum-balance at two different atmospheric pressures , with all the precautions already adopted in the previous weighings .
When the data for ascertaining the weight of the glass apparatus and the nitrate of thallium are correctly obtained , the weight of the glass apparatus by itself has to be taken .
For this purpose a hole is perforated in the tube , as before described , by means of a blowpipe-flame , and water being introduced the nitrate of thallium is dissolved out , and by repeated ultimately removed .
The completion of the operation is ascertained by evaporating some of the washing water almost to dryness , and testing by means of the spectroscope .
The apparatus is then dried , connected with the Sprengel pump , and after complete exhaustion it is sealed up at , the same precautions being taken to preserve the piece of tube now removed as were adopted in the previous sealing up .
The empty a.pparatus is now to be at different atmospheric pressures in the vacuum-balance with all necessary precautions , the two loose pieces of glass tube and * If a eonsiderable bulk of fused nitrate of ]lium is allowed to sohdify in a thin bfilb , the is almost ccrtain to to uncqual contraction .
Many of my ions were spoilt by this cause .
Bykeeping the apparatus in motion during solidification , so as to allow the nitrate to line the Teater part of the inner surface of the bulb , this source of danger is avoided . .
W. CROOKES ON THE AfOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
being now included , and from the data thus obtained its true weight is calculated .
There have thus been obtained:\mdash ; .
The weight of the glass thallium . .
The weight of the nitrate of thallium .
7 .
weight of the glass alone .
From these data the atomic weight of thallium can be calculated by the formulae given in the next section .
CALCULATION OF THE RESULTS .
The succeeding results must not be arded as embodying all the attempts to determine the atomic weight ; for , as stated in the preceding section , many of the apparatus were broken at various stages of the opelation .
The calculations , however , serve to illustrate the which came to successful issue .
For the accurate determination of the weighing.s , it will be seen that it is necessary to ascertain the density of the ordinary atmosphere at the place where the weighings are made .
RITTER has deduced from observations that in Paris , lat. at 60 metres above the level of the sea , a litre of dry atmospheric air at C. and 760 millims. pressure weighs gramme .
It is well established that if represents the force of gravity at the mean level of the sea in lat. , the force of gravity in lat. at the mean level of the sea .
The force of gravity in a given latitude at a place on the sulface of the earth at a height above the mean level of the sea multiplied by the force of gravity at the of the sea in the same latitude , being the radius of the earth metres , its mean density , and the density of that part of the earth which is above the mean level of the sea ; and if the latio be taken as 5 : 11 , then nearly .
Continuing the reasoning , Professol MILLER has shown that a litre of dry atmospheric air , containing the amount of carbonic acid , at and 760 millims. pressure , the above the mean level of the sca in lat. , weighs in rammes .
It has been shown by REGNAULT and others that , between and , the ratio of the density of air at to its density at is , and that the density of the vapour of water is of that of air .
Therefore the in grammes of a litre of air will be , PfDCCCLXXIlI .
2 318 .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF ]iIUM .
metres above teanz teight above tatitude.aboratory aapour ( ater)mercur avhere terature oessure o Mornington Road , Regent 's Park , where the atomic weight of thallium was determined , expression consequently becomes .
As a litre is the volume ofl000 grammes of water at its maximum density , the division of this expression by 1000 gives the ratio of the density of air to the maximum density of water .
By the addition of the logarithm of in millimetres to we obtain the logarithm of the rati of the density of air at to the maximum density of water .
TABLE A.\mdash ; Calculated for Mornington Road , Regent 's Park . .
Diff. .
Diff. .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
These logarithms , when increased by , agree with those employed by Professor in his determination of the value of the new standard pound ( see Phil. Trans. for 1856 ) when working in the cellar under the Mineralogical Museum at Cambridge , in lat. about 8 metres above the m.ean level of the sea ; increased they can be used in reducing weighings in Somerset House , lat. metres above sea-level ; or diminished by for weighings made in Paris .
We have next to consider the influence exerted by the hygrometric state of the atmo- sphere , or , in other wolds , the influence of the vapour of water suspended in the atmosphere .
It is clear that the moist air is nothing more than a mixture of cubic inches of dry air at undel a minus that of the vapour , and of cubic inches of apom .
at and the pressure resulting from the hygrometric condition .
BIOT , AULT , and have ascertained that the pressure of vapour in an ordinary dry room is two thirds of the maximum pressure due to the temperature .
TABLE B.\mdash ; Values of , where is the maximum pressure of vapour at the tempcratule , in millims. of merculy at , according to BEGNAULT'S obselvation The formula employed for the calculation of the true of a substance in vaclfo , dc Chimic , scric , tome ) .
from data , one at ordinary and one at a greatly diminished airpressure , is as follows:\mdash ; Let denote the substance to be weighed , and its true weight ( in vacuo ) in grains .
Weighing in Air of Ordinary Density .
Let denote the material weight which balances , , , , true weight of observed in air , , , , , weight of air displaced by , , , , temperature , , , , , pressure , in height of mercury , reduced to F. , , , , , bulk of in .
of water at .
density , , , , , weight of air displaced by : being given , required to find Second Weighing in a Rare Atmosphere .
Let 7 denote the weights which balance , , , , true weight of in air of ol.dinary density , weight of air displaced by 7 , , , , temperature , , , , pressure , in height of mercury , reduced to F. , , bulk of 7 in grains of water at .
density , denote the weight of air displaced by : being given , to find and ; hence By Tables A and ; lppose ) .
Lct ; then Hence Hence ; or MR. W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUM .
To illustrate the application of this formula , I will reduce the weighings of one of the determinations ( E ) .
Substance Balance weighed .
used .
( H ) Glass appalatus .
( H ) Glass apparatus .
Weighkactual .
' Trueval.ueinair ( W ) ( w ) ( ) Weight of air displaced .
Tempcrature .
Bar .
( reduced to ( x ) ( t ) ( p ) . .
( vol. in water .
den- ( millims. ) sity ) . .
( millims. ) LATION OF -WEIGHT OF FLASK FROM ABOVE WEIGHINGS .
Let true weight in vacuum of flask , F. C. , in .
millims. , F. C. , in .
millims. ; ; ; ; ; ; , , MR. W. CROOJCES ON THE ATObIIC WEIGHT OF THALLIUlf .
; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; WEIGHING OF GLASS APPARATUS NITRATE OF THALLIUM .
Vacuum-balance .
In air .
Left pan removed .
Platinum weights .
After third heating ( to fusion ) and cooling:\mdash ; ohts .
True value in air .
Weightofa.irdisplaced Volume.density .
at Pan Therm. F. C. Barom. in .
at C. millims. weight of glass apparatus preceding ) weight of thallium nitrate in air . .
W. CROOKES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF THAILIUM .
The weight of air displaced \amp ; c. is taken separately for each weight in all cases , but is omitted in subsequent examples ( the sum being given ) , to prevent introduction of useless figures .
WEIGHING OF GLASS APPARATUS ITRATE OF THALLIUII IN RARE IOSPHERE .
Vacum-balance .
Exhausted .
Left pan removed .
Platinum weights .
of air Volumc in water Weights .
Truc value in .
displaced .
at .
density .
Pan Therm. F. C. Barom. in .
millims. at C. Gauge in .
millims. at C. millims. pressure .
Weight of left scale-pan of air-balance , which was removed to lelieve the beam in hing the heavier pieces of appalatus:\mdash ; Weight .
True value in air .
Weightofairdisplaced .
Volume .
atcrat density .
Weight of left scale-pan of vacuum-balance taken in air-balance:\mdash ; Weight .
value in air .
Weightofadisplaced.ir Yolume.aterat density .
Weight of air displaced by scale-pan Volume in water of maximum density CALCULATION OF VACUUM-WEIGHT GLASS APPARATUS NITRATE OF ltOM GIVEN DATA .
First Weighing in Air of Ordinary )ensity .
By Table for is is 1027 By Table for millims. ; By Table A the value ofSecond Weighing in a Atmosphere .
for C. ' Value of C. millims. : millims. pressure ) ; weight of rare air placed by 7 .
The data now are , \mdash ; Hence : ; true weight of glass apparatus plus nitrate of thallium vacuo .
( of bolass atus ivacuo ) erht of nitrate of thallium ?
( weight of nitrate of thallium in air ) increase in weight for vacuum .
This number , it will presently appear , represents the atomic weight of thallium nearly as the possibility of error will allow .
Let us see what would be the atomic weight of thallium if one or other of the corrections introduced into the above determination had been omitted .
The use of the old equivalent for , with the data derived from the weighings in vacuo , gives : : : 62 : as the atomic weight ; but I cannot admit this number to be so correct as If we take the corrected weighings in air of ordinary density , we ve 1 } ith : : : : * To save needless repetition , I only give the results of these calculations .
In this determination the thaUium and afterwards the nitrate of were weighed iu the same apparatus as described .
With : : : 62 : Accepting the uncorrected weights observed in air , we have , with : : : : With : : : 62 : The several atomic weights would therefore be The erl.or of the last deduction , , is sufficiently large to show the necessity of ecting no precaution in chemical manipulation , especially in a determination of this character .
The largeness of these errors has an immediate bearing upon quantitative analysis ; for it shows that from data ordinarily given , very varying results may be obtained .
Chemists have to deal with much smaller quantities than a quarter per cent. , particularly in organic analysis , where , as I have shown , such a difference from the truth may lead to very erroneous reasoning .
RESULTS .
Ten results of the most trustworthy weighings with are True Weights in vacuo .
Dctermi- itrate of Calculated atomic of thaUium glass .
glass .
weight from nation .
taken .
these data .
A. B. C. D. F. G. H. I. K. should be noted that the arithmetic mean of all the readings , including the highest as well as the lowest result , in which doubt might arise as to success in manipulation , is Fully illustrated in the preceding text . .
W. CROOKIES ON THE ATOMIC WEIGHT OF I wish it to be noted that I have made determinations with sidelable weights of thallium .
In ordinary analysis chemists are satisfied to take 5 or 10 grains of the substance under investigation : here I have gone to the very highest weight that can be entrusted , with safety , to the balance .
The lowest weight of thallium takenl is \ldquo ; the heaviest grains , the remaining determinations between these limits .
It is haldly necessary to say that the purpose has becll to eliminate the error arising from manipulation with small quantities , and to produce such variety in the results as to rendel the chances of coincidence of very slnRll value .
Let me now tabulate the results of the determination , with the view to ascertain scverally their degree of approximation to the arithmetic mean : . . . . .
000 . . . . .
The alithmetic mean of the ten observations is But does this average represent the truth ?
Or , rather , how nearly does it represent the truth ?
According to the theory of probabilities , the ' weight\ldquo ; of may be determined by means of the formula where number of observations , and sum of the squares of the successive differenccs , obtained by subtracting each observation from the arithmetic mean of whole .
The arithmetic mean of the ten weighings is 000196 Hence the " " weight\ldquo ; of is The largeness of this figure indicates the high degree of probability that is very near to the true value sought .
But the question , What is the true value ?
does not admit of absolute answer ; for one of the observations was as low as , and one as high as .
The numbel of possible values between and is infinite , the arithmetic mean but one of these values ; and although more likely than any other that could be , it is not more likely than one or other of all the possible values .
The odds are many to one that is not the truth ; but they are also many to one that is very near the truth .
The questionl " " HolV neal ?
\ldquo ; cannot be answered ; alter the question to " " What is the probability that the truth is comprised the limits \ldquo ; and the answer may be easily iven , however small may be .
Thus if \mdash ; in other words , if the question be " " What is the degree of likelihood the truth lies between and \mdash ; the answer is given by the formulae recourse to tables calculated from the celebrated Definite . .
to which corresponds in Table II .
, against 99795 , as before .
I may therefore conclude that , within the limits of error ( as small as possible ) of obselvation , the ATOMIC IVEIGHT THALLIUM Professor STAS has shown the hypothesis of \mdash ; that the atomic wcights of the elements are severally multiples of the atomic weight of hydrogcn\mdash ; to be without corroboration of experimental result .
This vicw of the hypothesis is there borne out in the present investigation ; for the number cannot , within the limit of what has been shown to be the probable error , by any liberty bc made to follow the hypothesis .
Without doubt , when the atomic of the metals cdet .
according to the standard of recent scientific method , it will be found that there more exceptions to the hypothesis than arc commonly con sidered .
glves , 111 his confirmatory discussion of STAS'S expcriments and in his own results with calcium hl CCLXXIII . .
I '/ / - ' .
'

