IV .
" O On some New Volatile Alkaloids given off during Putrefaction .
" By F. CRACE CA : LVERT , Phi ) .
, F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received February 23 , 1860 .
Somie eighteen months ago my friend Mr. J. A Ransom , surgeon to the Royal Infirmary , Manchester , induced me to make some researches with the view of ascertaining the nature of the products given off from puitrid wounds , adn more especially in the hope of throwing some light upon the contagion known as hospital gangrene .
I fitted up some apparatus to condense the noxious products from such wounds ; but the quantity obtained was so small , that it was necessary for me to acquire a more general knowledge of the various substances produced during the putrefaction of animal matter , before I could determine the nature of the products from sloughing wounds .
I therefore began a series of experiments , the general resuilts of which I now wish to lay before the Societv .
Into each of a number of small barrels twenty lbs. of meat and fish were introduced , and to preveint the clotting together of the mass , it was mixed layer by layer with pumice-stone .
The top of each barrel was perforated in two places , onie hole being for the purpose of admitting air , whilst through the other a tube was passed which reached to the bottom of the barrel .
This tube was put in colnnexion with two bottles containing chloride of platinum , and these in .
their turn connected with an aspirator .
By this arrangement air was made to circulate through the casks , so as to become charged with the products of putrefaction and to convey them to the platinum salt .
A yellow amorphous precipitate soon appeared , which was collected , washed with water and alcohol , and dried .
This precipitate was found to contain C , I-I , and N , but what is highly remarkable , sulphur and phosphorus enter into its composition .
The presence of C , EI , and N was ascertained by elementary analysis ; for the sulphur and phosphorus , a given weight of the platinum salt , 0'547 grm. , was oxidized with nitric acid , and gave 0-458 grm. of sulphate of baryta = 11 per cent. of sulphur , and 0 26 6 of pyrophosphate of magnesia =6 01 per cent. of phosphorus .
I also ascertained the presence of these two substances by heating a certain quantity of the platinum salt with strong caustic ley , when a liquid , volatile and inflammable alkaloid was obtained , whilst the sulphbur* and phosphorus remained combined with the alkali and were easily detected .
I satisfied myself during these researches , which have lasted more than twelve months , that no sulphuretted nor phosphuretted hydrogen was given off ; and my researches , as far as they have proceeded , tend to prove that the noxious vapours given off during putrefaction , contain the N , S , and Ph of the animal substance , and that these elements are not liberated in the simple form of ammonia , and sulphuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen .
I also remarked during this investigation , that , as putrefaction proceeds , different volatile bodies are given off .
Before concluding , I may add , that when the platinum salts are heated in small test-tubes , they give off vapours , some acid and some alkaline , possessing a most obnoxious and sickening odour , very like the odours of putrefaction ; and that at the same time a white crystalline sublimate , which is not chloride of ammoniium , is torrned .
As I foresee that these researches will occupy several years , I have deemed it my duty in the mean time to lay the above facts before the Society .

