\#187 ; Bakerian Lecture : Series Lines in Spark Spectra .
By A. Fowler , F.R.S. , Assistant Professor of Physics , Imperial College , ' South Kensington .
( Lecture delivered April 2 , \#151 ; MS .
received April 20 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) The classical work of Rydberg , and that of Kayser and Rung , dealt chiefly with series lines occurring in spectra which are produced in the electric arc , or in vacuum tubes with discharges of moderate intensity .
In the present communication the lines considered are some of those which are specially developed in the condensed spark ; that is , lines which belong to the class of " enhanced lines " as defined by Lockyer .
The investigation was undertaken in connection with the new lines ( A , 4686 , etc. ) which were produced in 1912 by passing strong discharges through helium tubes , which always contained an impurity of hydrogen.* These lines are of great interest in celestial spectroscopy , and , following Rydberg , they were at first attributed to hydrogen ; they appeared to be closely related to the hydrogen series , while showing no relation to the known series of helium .
In addition to the lines calculated by Rydberg for the " Principal " series of hydrogen , however , the " 4686 " series included an intermediate series which the recognised formulae suggested was a second " Principal " series , having a simple relation to the first .
As the lines could not be obtained from hydrogen alone , it was soon felt that further enquiry should be made as to the value of the numerical evidence on which their assignment to hydrogen was chiefly based .
A search for other series of similar character was therefore instituted in the hope that some generalisation with regard to them might be reached .
The conditions of appearance of the lines in helium tubes suggested spark spectra as the most promising source of such series , and a subsequent investigation of magnesium showed that the well-known spark line A 4481 was the first member of a series of the kind looked for .
No satisfactory evidence of relation to other series of magnesium was then obtained , and it seemed possible that both the " 4686 " and the " 4481 " series might be of a new type , having no necessarily simple relation to other series in the respective spectra , t The lines of the " 4686 " series , and the associated " Pickering " series , have * * Monthly Notices Roy .
Astro .
Soc. , ' vol. 73 , p. 62 ( December , 1912 ) .
+ ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 89 , p. 133 ( June , 1913 ) .
Series Lines in Spark Spectra .
since become of increased importance , in connection with theories of the constitution of the atom , through the theoretical investigations of Dr. Bohr , who explains them as being produced during the first stage in the re-formation of atoms of helium from which both electrons have been removed by the strong discharges employed .
Bohr 's formula for this series is identical , in a first approximation , with that for hydrogen , except that the Rydberg constant N ( = 109,675 for Rowland 's scale ) has four times its usual value .
The two " Principal " series previously assigned to hydrogen were thus united in a single series of a new type , while the Pickering series was made to include additional lines nearly coincident with the Balmer series of hydrogen .
It therefore became important to ascertain if such a modified formula could be adapted to the analogous " 4481 " series of magnesium , and to other series of spark lines if they could be found .
Further investigation of magnesium was also suggested by Dr. King 's discovery that the line 4481 is a very close doublet .
Two additional members of this series were resolved , and it at once appeared that the series was not of the ordinary Principal type .
The new measurements also showed that the eight observed lines could be united in a single series of the new type suggested by the work of Dr. Bohr , Other series of the same kind were found in Lyman 's observations of certain " narrow " doublets in the spectra of calcium , strontium , and barium in the Schumann region .
At this stage a valuable contribution to the investigation was made by the work of E. Lorenser , * who had discussed the Lyman lines , and had shown that they formed series of the Fundamental ( or " Bergmann " ) type , associated with the wider doublets which occur in the spectra of these elements .
Lorenser does not appear to have recognised that the lines in question belong to the special class of enhanced lines , but his work proved that these lines form a new class of series , and that similar groups of series occur both in arc and spark spectra .
The formula employed by Lorenser was of a modified Rydberg form , but further calculations have shown that the individual series , and the relation between the different series of the same element , are better represented by the Hicks formula with 4N for numerator .
One peculiarity of these series is that the first pair of the Diffuse series occurs with a negative sign in the formulae , whereas it appears in arc series as a positive term .
The wider doublets which occur in the spectrum of magnesium are in several respects analogous to the wider doublets of calcium , strontium , and barium , but the negative term of the Diffuse series is lacking , and a Fundamental series which would fall in line with those of the other three elements is also wanting .
The use of the Hicks formula shows that the * ' Dissertation,5 Tubingen , 1913 .
Prof. A. Fowler .
limit of the " 4481 " series is related to the first positive term of the Diffuse series , but the fact that the doublets occur both in arc and spark , while 4481 requires spark conditions , indicates that the relation is probably indirect .
The character of the spark series system of magnesium has been elucidated by the discovery of a new group of series of narrow doublets , which occur under exactly the same experimental conditions as 4481 .
Two of these pairs were observed by Fowler and Pain in 1903 , and for convenience of reference the new ' group of series has been designated the " FP " system .
It is shown that the " 4481 " series is the Fundamental series of this group , its limit being derived from the first negative term of the Diffuse series , as in the case of calcium , strontium , and barium .
There is evidence that corresponding series in the " FP " and wide doublet systems run parallel to each other , so that data lacking in one may be obtained from observations of the other .
Thus it is found that the separation of the " FP " doublets is equal to the calculated separation of the second Principal pair of the wide doublets , which lies in the Schumann region and has not yet been observed .
Two well-defined combination series , each consisting of seven lines , have also been recognised in the course of the experiments on magnesium , one derived from terms , of the Diffuse and " 4481 " series , and the other entirely from the " 4481 " series .
From these investigations it follows that two kinds of series have now to be recognised : ( 1 ) series of the " arc " type , having Rydberg 's N for the series constant ; and ( 2 ) series of the " spark " or " enhanced line " type , having a series constant equal to 4N .
No numerical relations have yet been traced between the two sets of series occurring in the spectrum of the same element .
Returning to the lines produced in helium tubes , it is now clear that the line 4686 and the other lines associated with it form a single series of the enhanced line ( 4N ) type , and that they can no longer be considered to belong to the same group as the Balrner series of hydrogen , which is of the arc ( N ) type .
The close numerical relations indicated by Rydberg 's calculations are therefore not significant , and , in view of the experimental evidence , it must be concluded that the " 4686 " series is not due to hydrogen but to helium , as first suggested by Dr. Bohr from theoretical considerations .
In accordance with the convenient nomenclature of Lockyer , they may be designated " proto-helium " lines .
Analogy with the " 4481 " series of magnesium suggests that the " 4686 " series is primarily of the Fundamental type , while the three associated series may be considered to be coincident with it .
If the Pickering lines are also due to proto-helium , as seems probable , the series must include additional lines which are almost superposed on the Series Lines in Spark Spectra .
429 Balmer series .
Experimental and astronomical evidence on this point is incomplete , but there is no evidence against this supposition .
The assignment of the Pickering lines to proto-helium is supported by the observations of magnesium , since one of the new combination series is related to the " 4481 " series in exactly the same way that the extended Pickering series would be related to the " 4686 " series .
The close relations between the lines of hydrogen ( real and hypothetical ) and some of those of proto-helium is simply accounted for by Bohr 's theory of the origin of these spectra .
The formulae , in which p and m can only take integral values , may be written\#151 ; Hydrogen \#187 ; = n(+\#151 ; y. \p2 m2 ] p = 2 for Balmer series .
Proto-helium ... n = w(--\ ) fp = 3 for " 4686 " series .
\p2 w ?
) Lp = 4 for Pickering series .
If W were exactly equal to 4N , some of the lines of proto-helium would be coincident with those calculated by Eydberg for the Principal series ( p = 1*5 in the first formula ) and for the Sharp series of hydrogen ( p = 2 , m = ?
?i + 0*5 in the first formula ) .
The observed values are IsT = 109,675 , N ' = 438,879*1 + TO ( the latter from X 4685*98+ 0*01 ) , and Bohr has shown that their ratio is in very close agreement with his theoretical expressions for these terms when correction is made for the mass of the electron .
The above values of N and give a provisional value for the mass of the hydrogen atom in terms of that of the electron as 1836 + 12 ; or 1855 + 12 when the data are corrected to the International scale of waVe-lengths .
The well-known line at 4686 which occurs in the solar chromosphere , and in some of the nebulae , is undoubtedly the proto-helium line , and there are no indications in these spectra of another line at 4688 which would correspond with the calculated Principal line of hydrogen .
Until other evidence is forthcoming , it may be considered that the line spectrum of hydrogen consists only of the Balmer series and parallel series in the infra-red and Schumann regions .
In regard to more complex spectra , since N and 4N are constant , or nearly so , for the two classes of series , Bohr 's theory suggests that arc series in general are produced by atoms from which only one electron has been removed by the exciting source , while spark series are produced when two electrons have been removed .
It has not yet been shown , however , how a single series of hydrogen or of proto-helium comes to be represented by a group of series in other spectra .
vol. xc.\#151 ; a. 2 H 430 Dr. G. W. C. Kaye and Mr. W. F. Higgins .
Emission of The change in the character of the series in passing from arc to spark spectra suggests the possibility of further change in the same direction , leading to series which would require nine times the ordinary series constant in the formulae representing them .
A preliminary examination of terrestrial and celestial spectra , however , has given no indications of the existence of such series .
The Emission of Electricity from various Substances at High Temperatures .
By G. W. C. Kaye , B.A. , D.Sc .
, and W. F. Higgins , B.Sc. ( Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook , F.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read May 21 , 1914 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) Introductory .
In previous papers* an account was given of experiments in which ionisation currents of great magnitude were obtained from carbon at high temperatures .
It was remarked that the largest currents appeared to be associated with the expulsion ( at about 2000 ' C. ) of impurities , such as silica , alumina and iron , which are always present in commercial carbon .
Such a result is perhaps not surprising in view of Wehnelt'sf work on the alkaline earths and their large electronic emissivity when raised to a white heat , as for example in a Wehnelt cathode .
Furthermore , Sir J. J. ThomsonJ showed some years ago that oxides , when raised to a red heat in a crucible , gave out an excess of negative electricity , the most copious streams coming from the oxides of calcium and barium .
S The currents generated were such as were readily indicated by an electroscope .
The present experiments ( which were carried out some months ago ) were undertaken , in the first instance , to investigate the behaviour of the alkaline * Harker and Kaye , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 86 , p. 379 ( 1912 ) ; A , vol. 88 , p. 522 , ( 1913 ) .
King ( 4 Astrophys .
Jour .
, ' Nov. , 1913 , p. 330 ) has since repeated some of the experiments at Mount Wilson in connection with his work on 44tube-arc " spectra .
t Wehnelt , 4 Ann. d. Phys. , ' vol. 14 ( 4 ) , p. 425 ( 1904 ) , and 4 Phil. Mag. , ' July ( 1905 ) .
See also Jentzsch , 4 Ann. d. Phys. , ' vol. 28 , p. 537 ( 1909 ) .
I J. J. Thomson , 4 Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 14 , p. 105 ( 1906 ) .
S Prof. Thomson showed further that when various salts were heated , the sign of the resulting electrification was the same as that produced by friction of the dry salt when cold .

