2 .
A paper was in part read , entitled , " On the Special Function of the Skin .
" By Robert Willis , M.D. Communicated by John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. March 9 , 1843 .
Sir JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK , Bart. , V.P. and Treasurer , in the Chair .
John Miers , Esq. , was balloted for , and duly elected a Fellow of the Society .
1 .
The reading of a paper , entitled , " On the Special Function of the Skin .
" By Robert Willis , M.D. Communicated by John Bostock , M.D. , F.R.S. , was resumed and concluded .
The purpose which is answered in the animal economy by the cutaneous exhalation has not hitherto been correctly assigned by phy ?
siologists : the author believes it to be simply the elimination from the system of a certain quantity of pure water , and he considers that the saline and other ingredients which pass off at the same time by the skin are in too inconsiderable a quantity to deserve being taken into account .
He combats by the following arguments the prevailing opinion , that this function is specially designed to reduce or to regulate the animal temperature .
It has been clearly shown by the experiments of Dclaroche and Berger , that the power which animals may possess of resisting the effects of a surrounding medium of high temperature is far inferior to that which has been commonly ascribed to them ; for in chambers heated to 120 ?
or 130 ?
Fahr. , the temperature of animals is soon raised to 11 ?
or even 16 ?
above what it had been previously , and death speedily ensues .
The rapid diminution or even total suppression of the cutaneous exhalation , on the other hand , is by no means followed by a rise in the temperature of the body .
In general dropsies , which are attended with a remarkable diminution of this secretion , an iey coldness usually pervades both the body and the limbs .
A great fall in the animal temperature was found by Fourcauld , Becquerel and Breschet to be the effect of covering the body with a varnish impervious to perspiration ; and so serious was the general disturbance of the functions in these circumstances , that death usually ensued in the course of three or four hours .
The question will next arise , how does it happen that health and even life can be so immediately dependent as we find them to be on the eliniination of so small a quantity of water as thirty-three ounces from the general surface of the body in the course of twenty-four hours ?
To this the author answers , that such eliniination is important as sccuring the conditions which are necessary for the endosmotic trans ?
ference between arteries and veins of the fluids which minister to nutrition and vital endowinent .
It is admitted by physiologists that the blood , while still contained within its conducting channels , is incrt with reference to the body , no particle of which it can either nourish or vivify until that portion of it which has been denominated the jrfusma has transuded from the vessels and arrived in immediate contact with the particle that is to be nourished and vivified : but no physiologist has yet pointed out the efficient cause of these tendencies of the plasma , first , to transude through the wall of its efferent vessels , and secondly , to find its way back again into the afferent conduits .
The explanation given by the author is that , in consequence of the out-going current of blood circulating over the entire superficies of the body perpetually losing a quantity of water by the action of the sudoriparous glands , the blood in the returning channels has thereby become more cleanse and inspissated , and is brought into the condition for absorbing , by endosmosis , the fluid perpetually exucling from the arteries , which are constantly kept on the stretch by the injecting force of the heart .
Jn an appendix to the paper , the author points out a few of the practical applications of which the above-mentioned theory is susceptible .
Interference with the function of the skin , and principally through the agency of cold , he observes , is the admitted cause of the greater number of acute diseases to which mankind , in the temperate regions of the globe , are subject .
He who is said to have suf ?
feared a chili , has , in fact , suffered a derangement or suppression of the secreting action of his skin , a process which is altogether inclispensable to the continuance of life ; and a disturbance of the general health follows as a necessary consequence .
Animals exposed to the continued action of a hot dry atmosphere die from exhaustion ; but when subjected to the effects of a inoist atmosphere of a temperature not higher than their own , they perish much more speedily ; being destroyed by the same cause as those which die from covering the body with an impervious glaze ; for , in both cases , the conditions required for the access of oxidized , and the removal of deoxidized plasma , are wanting , and life necessarily ceases .
The atmosphere of unhealthy tropical climates differs but little from a vapour-bath at a temperature of between 80 ?
and 90 ?
Fahr. ; and the dew-point in those countries , as for example on the western coast of Africa , never ranges lower than three or four degrees , nay , is sometimes only a single degree , below the temperature of the air .
Placed in an atmosphere so nearly saturated with water , and of such a temperature , man is on the verge of conditions that are incompatible with his existence : conditions which may easily be induced by exposure to fatigue in a humid atmosphere under a burning sun , or other causes which excite the skin while they prevent the exercise of its natural function .
The terms Miasma and Malaria may , according to the author , be regarded as almost synonymous with air at the temperature of from 75 ?
to 85 ?
Fahr. , and nearly saturated with moisture .

