1895 .
] Electrification of Air , 8fC .
, bubbling through Water .
335 February 21 , 1895 .
The LORD KELVIN , D.O.L. , LL. D. , President , followed by Sir JOHN EVANS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , LL. D. , Vice-President and Treasurer , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Electrification of Air and other Gases by bubbling through Water and other Liquids .
" By Lord Kelvin , P.R.S. , Magnus Maclean , M.A. , F.R.S.E. , and Alexander Galt , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. Received February 7 , and February 15 , 1895 .
S 1 .
At the meeting of the British Association in Oxford in August , 1894 , a communication was given to section A , entitled " Preliminary Experiments to find if Subtraction of Water from Air Electrifies it .
These experiments were performed during July of 1894 , and were a continuation of experiments which were commenced in the Physical Laboratory of the University of Glasgow in December of 1868 with the same object , but which were then , for various reasons , discontinued before any decisive result had been obtained .
S 2 .
A glass U -tube with vertical branches ( fig. 1 ) , each 18 inches long and about 1-inch bore , with the upper 8 inches of one of the branches carefully coated outside and inside with clean shellac varnish , was held fixed by an uninsulated support attached , to the upper end of this branch .
The other branch was filled with little fragments of pumice soaked in strong sulphuric acid or in water , and a fine Fio .
1 .
336 Lord Kelvin and Messrs. Maclean and Galt .
[ Pet , 21 platinum wire , with one end touching the pumice , connected it to the insulated electrode of a quadrant electrometer .
A metal can , H , large enough to surround both branches of the U -tube without touching either , was placed so as to guard the tube from electric influences of surrounding bodies , the most disturbing of which is liable to be the woollen cloth sleeves of the experimenters or observers moving in the neighbourhood .
This metal can was kept in metallic connection with the outside metal case of the quadrant electrometer .
The length of the exposed platinum wire between the JJ-tube and the electrometer was so short that it did not need a metal screen to guard it against irregular influences .
A.n india-rubber tube from an ordinary blow-pipe bellows was connected* to the uninsulated end of the U -tube .
Air was blown through it steadily for nearly an hour .
With the pumice soaked in strong sulphuric acid in the other branch , the electrometer reading rose in the course of three-quarters of an hour to about 9 volts positive .
the pumice was moistened with water , instead of sulphuric acid , no such effect was observed .
The result of the first experiment proves decisively that the passage of the air through the [ J-tube gave positive electricity to the sulphuric acid , and therefore sent away the dried air with negative electricity .
A corresponding experiment with fragments of pure chloride of calcium instead of pumice in sulphuric acid , gave a similar result .
In repetition of the experiments , however , it was noticed that the strong positive electrification of the ( J -tube seemed to commence somewhat suddenly when a gurgling sound\#151 ; due to the bubbling of air through free liquid , whether sulphuric acid or chloride of calcium solution in the bend of the JJ -tube\#151 ; began to be heard , It has since been ascertained that it was because no liquid accumulated in the bottom of the ( J -tube that no electric effect was found when the pumice was moistened with pure water .
S 3 .
Arrangements were made to prevent any bubbling of the air through liquid , by using a straight tube instead of a JJ -tube .
In a large number of experiments with pumice , moistened with pure sulphuric acid , in the straight tube , and air blown through for about half an hour , no definite electrification was obtained .
In this straight tube , as formerly with the [ J -tube , pumice moistened with pure water gave no electrification .
Chloride of calcium in lumps , not specially dried , gave no effect in the straight tube ; but if previously heated to 180 ' or 200 ' and put into the straight tube when still hot , it gave an enormous positive electrification immediately on the commencement of blowing .
Strong positive electrification was obtained a second time , by discharging the electrometer to zero , re-insulating , and re-commencing the blowing .
But after discharging a second time , re-insulating , and re-commencing the blowing , no further electrification was found .
1895 .
] Electrification of Air , b bubbling through Water .
337 R 4 In continuation of these experiments , on the 25th of Septem- * ber the arrangement represented in fig. 2 was set up .
An outer Fig. 2 .
metallic guard-vessel , M , was kept connected by a wire to the case and to one pair of quadrants of a quadrant electrometer , E. Water m an inner glass or metal jar , A , was connected by a platinum wire to the other pair of quadrants of the electrometer .
To have this inner jar well insulated , it was supported on a block of paraffin ; and the upper end of a glass tube dipping into the water was fitted into one en o a tube of paraffin , to the other end of which was fitted a tube for ingress of air , from bellows , as shown in the figure .
The insulation of this arrangement was found to be good .
When air was blown through the water it was found that the jar containing the water became positively electrified .
S 5 .
To prevent splashing of water out of the jar , a paper cover was put on its mouth , or the jar was tilted , as shown in fig. , Fig. 3 .
, i| 80 that the bubbles broke against the inside of the jar .
^ In three J experiments thus made , the same electrification was still found , f Counting to about 6 volts positive in a qharter of an hour .
^ S 6 .
As the jar was in every experiment positively electrified , the 338 Lord Kelvin and Messrs. Maclean and Galt .
[ Feb. j| air , if unelectrified* when entering it , must have been negative !
electrified when leaving it .
S 7 .
To test if the air was negatively electrified after bubbling 0n the 11th of October the apparatusf shown in fig. 4 was set up .
The Fig. 4 .
apparatus consists of a large sheet iron vat , W , 123 cm .
in diameter and 70 cm .
in height , inverted on a large wooden tray lined with lead , and supported by three blocks of wood .
By filling the trav with water , the air is confined in the vat .
CO is a metal screen kept metallically connected with the case of the electrometer , and with the vat .
It surrounds both the electrometer and the water-dropper , to prevent any external varying electrifications from vitiating the proper results of our experiments .
This screening of the electrometer is absolutely necessary when it is used with high sensibility ( 70 scale divisions per volt in our experiments ) in a ^laboratory or other place where various other electric experiments may simultaneously be going on .
Four years ago the electrometer , the vat , and the water-dropper , were set up on the class-room table without a metal screen .
When the deflection indicated about 4 volts negative ( see S 8 ) , the negative lead of Lord Kelvin 's house electric-light circuit , which passes through the class-room , was joined to earth .
This changed the deflection of the electrometer suddenly by 1 volt* in the positive direction .
When the positive lead was " earthed , " the deflection was changed suddenly by 6 volts in the negative direction .
Putting on sixteen 8 c.p. electric lamps , eight on each side of the class-room , changed the deflection by two-thirds of a volt in the negative direction .
* Air was similarly blown from bellows into the vat ( see S 7 ) without any bubbling , and no electrification was observed .
t The vat , the water-droppejr , and the electrometer are the same as in the apparatus described in the ' Proceedings of the Koyal Society , ' vol. 56 , year 1894 , Electrification of Air , " by Lord Kelvin and Magnus Maclean . !
2395 .
] Electrification of Air , #\lt ; ? .
, by bubbling through Water .
339 S 8 In experimenting with the same apparatus* in 1890 it was found that the water jet gave negative electricity to the ordinary air of the laboratory enclosed in the vat .
The present experiments fully confirm this result , showing a gradual negative electrification of the enclosed mass of air rising to about 5 volts in an hour , once every day for the first few days .
For twenty-eight days after the vat was set up in October , 1894 , fifteen observations of an hour each were taken , to find the effect of the water-dropper , with no other disturbing influence on the unchanged volume of air inside the vat .
These experiments verify the conclusion ( ' Phil. Mag. , ' August , 1890 ) that the more the air inside the vat became free of dust , the less became the rate at which the air was negatively electrified by the water-dropper .
S 9 .
On the 15th October last the vat was lifted from the tray to remove some obstruction in the nozzle of the water-dropper , which was not then flowing freely .
Curve ( 6 ) was obtained that afternoon .
Curves 6 and 7 .
Riil .
Mag. , ' August , 1890 , " Electrification of Air by a Water Jet , " by Maclean ailu Goto .
340 Lord Kelvin and Messrs. Maclean and Galt .
ppfH ^ The air in the vat was the ordinary air of the laboratory , and a cnrve shows the effect of the water-dropper alone in electrifying the air negatively .
For the next two days the water-dropper was kept running continuously for about eight hours each day , to wash the dust out of the air , and on the 18th of October curve ( 7 ) was obtained .
It shows a much less rate of negative electrification than curve ( 6 ) .
Itl the experiments of summer 1890 an aspirator was used to draw the air from the vat , and a tube full of cotton-wool was used to filter the air drawn into the vat .
Curves ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) are reproduced from the ' Philosophical Maga-zine , ' and they show that the more the air becomes free from dust the less is the rate at which the water-dropper electrifies .
Thus curve ( 1 ) was obtained from the ordinary air of the laboratory , in the vat , and curve ( 2 ) after the aspirator was working for some time .
In this curve the water-dropper itself was running for some time before the first observation was taken .
The other curves were obtained after further continuous working of the aspirator .
{ 0 jlil l1 !
i j f ]ol ? !
; !
J 4 In k t , { fl Curves 1 to 5 .
1895 .
] Electrification of Air , fycb bubbling through Water .
341 After curve ( 4 ) was obtained the aspirator was worked continuously for twenty-five hours , and then curve ( 5 ) was obtained .
S 10 .
At the end of twenty-three days of October and November 1894 ( SS 8 , 9 above ) , when the air inside the vat must have been fairly free from dust , and when the water-dropper of itself was giving little negative electrification , we bubbled air into it by a forked tube , one end of which was connected to a bellows , and three other open ends were below the water inside the vat .
In five experiments thus made\#151 ; two on November 7 , two on November 8 , and one on December 17\#151 ; an average negative electrification of 5 volts in twelve minutes was obtained .
S 11 .
We now arranged a ( J -tube with pure water in it ( fig. 4 ) outside the vat .
Air from the bellows bubbled through the water in this ( J , and was carried thence by a block-tin pipe into the vat without any further bubbling .
Observations by the quadrant electrometer , while the water-dropper was running and the bellows worked , gave us measurements of the varying state of the electrification of the air in the vat .
The average of fifteen experiments gave a negative electrification of the f air in the vat of 8-J ?
volts in 25 Curve 8 .
Lord Kelvin and Messrs. Maclean and Galt .
im a , r minutes .
The rate at which , the air was blown in in these experi ments was such as to displace the entire volume of air in the vat in half an hour .
S 12 .
Curve ( 8 ) shows the rate of electrification of air , in one of the fifteen experiments , when thus bubbled through the water in the ( J -tube and then admitted into the vat .
S 13 .
Two U -tubes , in series , with water in each , did not seem to give a perceptibly cumulative effect .
S 14 .
The effect of one or more wire gauze strainers between the JJ-tube and the vat , or between the ( J-tube and the bellows , was next tested .
The gauzes were placed between short lengths of lead tube , which were held together by a rubber tube slipped over them .
The arrangement is shown by longitudinal and cross sections in fig. 5 , Fig- .
5 .
Wire Gauxe\#177 ; v/ / ?
S7ysy/ /s/ // /s/ 7/ /SS/ // // /y/ // // S7SSSSf*s ?
rsss/ ssss/ ssssszsi \ f KWWWWM kXXXXWvVOI 4 India RubberTwelve wire gauzes , with or without cotton-wool between them , placed between the bellows and the ( J -tube , did not prevent the subsequent electrification by bubbling of the air thus filtered .
Bat when placed between the JJ -tube and the vat they almost entirely diselec-trifled the air , even without the cotton-wool , and still more decidedly when cotton-wool was loosely packed between the wire gauzes .
A single wire-gauze strainer produced but little of dis-electrifying effect .
S 15 .
The interpretation of these experiments is complicated , and the time required for each is lengthened , on account of the large mass of air in the vat to start with , whether uncharged or retaining electricity from previous experiments , and also on account of the effect of the water-dropper itself .
Hence , in our later experiments , we fell back on the arrangement shown in fig. 2 , by which we test the electrification of the liquid , and not directly that of the gas blown through it .
S 16 .
In our first experiments with this apparatus the amount of the electrification did not seem much affected when a paper covet was put on the jar , or when we tilted the jar as shown in We now made a large number of tests with different covers and screens ( chiefly of sheet copper or sheet zinc , or brass wire gauze ) at different heights above the liquids , and we concluded that , if screens are not within a centimetre and a half of the liquid surface , they do not directly affect the magnitude of the electrification obtained In nearly all of the subsequent experiments a horizontal circular screen t 1895.J Electrification of Air , fyc .
, by bubbling through Water .
343 of thin sheet copper , leaving an air space of about 3 mm. all round between its edge and the inner surface of the jar , about 3 cm .
above the liquid surface , was used to prevent spherules of the liquid from being tossed out of the jar by the bubbling .
S 17 .
In the following short summary of our results the duration of each experiment was 10 minutes .
The effect of blowing air through water and other liquids is summarised in SS 18 to 27 , and of blowing other gases than air through water in SS 28 to 31 .
8 18 .
The jar contained 200 c.c. of the Glasgow town-supply water ( from Loch Katrine ) .
A mean of seventeen experiments showed an electrification of the jar to 4 volts positive when air was blown through it for 10 minutes .
S 19 .
A solution of zinc sulphate of different strengths was now used instead of the pure water .
Three experiments , with 150 c.c. of water containing one drop of a saturated solution of the zinc sulphate , gave half the positive electrification that would , under similar circumstances , have been obtained from water only .
With five drops no definite electrification was obtained .
With greater proportions of the zinc sulphate solution up to saturation ( twenty-four experiments altogether ) the " electrification was on the average slightly negative .
S 20 .
Twelve experiments were then made to test the effect of adding a solution of ammonia to the water .
One drop reduced the electrification to one-half ; two drops brought it down to one-quarter , jt With larger proportions of ammonia than this , up to a saturated solution , we found a very slight positive electrification , never amounting to more than a small fraction of a volt , and therefore negligible win the circumstances .
S 21 .
Seven experiments with sulphuric acid of different strengths all showed small positive electrification , the amount gradually decreasing from \#163 ; volt , in 10 minutes , with 0'5 per cent , acid in water * ' iV volt , in the same time , with acid of full strength .
Seven experiments with hydrochloric acid solution of different strengths all showed a small negative electrification , the amount t gradually increasing from jr volt , in 10 minutes , with A per cent , acid solution in water to 1^ volts , in the same time , with acid solution of foil strength .
Nine experiments with calcium chloride solution were made .
A saturated solution and a solution diluted to 75 per cent , of full 8 rength gave no result ; but solutions of gradually diminished .* ' ^r01n 50 per cent , down to ^ per cent. , showed a negative 6 ' ?
^i ?
c.ation from fully i volt , in 10 minutes , down to XV volt .
ditions of very small quantities of washing soda to water greatly 6 jQCe ^e positive electrification obtained .
c Katrine water , supersaturated with carbonic acid , and placed Lord Kelvin and Messrs. Maclean and Galt .
[ Feb , 2i in the insulated jar , showed , when air was bubbled through it f0 minutes , a negative electrification of J volt .
S 22 .
Ten drops of paraffin oil added to water reduced the elect * fication to about half of that obtained from water only .
Thirty reduced it to about a tenth , which as it amounted to only y j during the time of the experiment is negligible .
S 23 .
Ten drops of benzene reduced the electrification to half and thirty drops to about a third of that taken by pure water .
S 24 .
A saturated solution of granulated phenol ( carbolic was made , and small portions of it added to the water in the acid ) jar .
Several experiments showed no diminution in the electrification as long as the quantity of the phenol solution present in the water was under 10 per cent. With 25 per cent , the electrification was reduced to a third .
With strengths greater than this up to saturation the electrification was reduced to one-sixth .
S 25 .
A saturated solution of common salt was prepared .
Blowing air through 200 c.c. of water containing the quantities of the salt solution mentioned , gave us in 10 minutes the following electrifications :\#151 ; ( a. ) 0 '004 per cent , of saturated solution of salt in water. .
( \amp ; .
) 0*02 .
" ( \#171 ; .
) o-i m 0-5 ( . .
) 2-0 C/ -)4-0 " " . .
2 '4 volts positive .
i*2 0'6 0'4 0-15 o-o S 26 .
Several experiments showed that with 200 c.c. of water containing not more than ten drops of absolute alcohol , practically the same amount of positive electrification ( 4 volts in ten minutes ) is * obtained as if pure water were used .
With fifty drops less than 2 volts were got , and with 100 drops less than 1 volt .
25 and 50 1 per cent , alcohol in the water gave very small and hence negligible 3 positive electrification .
S 27 .
One drop of saturated solution of copper snlphate in 200 c.c. : of water showed 1 volt positive in 10 minutes .
With j per cent , of .
it in the water , the electrification was reduced to a fraction of a 4 volt positive .
With greater proportions of copper sulphate present , i np to saturation , slightly negative electrifications were obtained , hut it never amounting to more than about one-tenth of a volt , and hence t negligible .
S 28 .
On blowing carbonic acid gas , from a cylinder obtained from 3 the Scotch and Irish Oxygen Company , through pure water in the g glass jar , the water became electrified to 8S volts positive in ten | minutes .
Blowing the breath through water gave an electrification 1 of 3 volts positive in the same time : this diminished result is doubt- k less due chiefly to the diminished rate of bubbling .
1895 .
] Electrification of Air , fyc .
, b bubbling through Water .
345 S 29 The blowing of oxygen from a cylinder , obtained from the Oxygen Company , through water , gave as a mean of four experiments , a positive electrification to the water of half a volt in 10 minutes .
When continued for 55 minutes , it gave the very decided result of 5 volts positive .
S 30 .
Hydrogen prepared from zinc and dilute sulphuric acid was passed into a large metal gas-bolder ; and was passed on from this to bubble through the water in the insulated jar .
In two experiments this was done immediately after the preparation of the hydrogen ; in another it was done after the hydrogen had remained 18 hours in the gas-holder .
In each of the three experiments the water was electrified to 2 volts positive in 10 minutes .
When the hydrogen was allowed to pass direct through a tube from the Wolffe 's bottle where it was generated , to bubble in the insulated jar , the magnitude of the effect obtained was very much larger .
In one case a mixture of muriatic acid and sulphuric acid and water was used , and the reading went off the scale positive in 30seconds ( more than 10 volts ) .
In other two experiments , with dilute sulphuric acid and zinc in the Wolffe 's bottle , the electrifications obtained were 6 volts positive in 7 minutes , and 7'3 volts positive in 13 minutes , in the last of which the hydrogen was allowed to bubble through caustic potash contained in a small bottle between the Wolffe 's bottle and the insulated jar .
The hydrogen was next generated in the insulated jar itself , the tube for ingress of air used in the ordinary experiments being taken away .
200 c.c. of pure water , along with some granulated zinc , was put into the jar .
Then some pure sulphuric acid was added , and electrometer readings were taken .
In two experiments with no screen in the jar ( S 16 ) the reading went off the scale negative ( 1 ) in 2 minutes and ( 2 ) in 4 minutes ( more than 9 volts in each case ) .
In another experiment , in other respects the same , but with a copper screen 7 cm .
above the surface of the liquid , the electrification showed 2 volts negative in 2 minutes , then came back to zero in 5 minutes , and in the next 6 minutes went 4 volts positive .
The jar and pair of quadrants connected with it were then metallically connected with the outer case of the electrometer for a few seconds , and reinsulated ; in 5 minutes the reading went up to 2 volts positive .
A little more sulphuric acid was added to the jar , which was disinsu-laied for a short time and reinsulated ; the reading went up to 7 volts positive in 4 minutes .
The jar was again disinsulated for a few seconds and reinsulated ; the reading went up in 4-g minutes to volts positive .
S 31 .
Coal-gas , bubbled through water in the insulated jar , gave 14 volts positive in 10 minutes .
S 32 .
In the ordinary experiment of bubbling air through a small Mr. H. F. Newall .
[ Feb. 2l , quantity , of water in the bottom of the jar it was noticed that th electrification did not commence to be perceptible generally till about the end of the first minute ; and that it went on augmenting per ceptibly for a minute or more after the bubbling was stopped .
Thp following experiment was therefore tried several times .
One of us stood leaning over the jar , with the head about 10 ins .
above it and the mouth so partly closed that breathing was effected sideways ' another blew the bellows ; and another took the readings of the electrometer .
After bubbling had been going on for some minutes and the readings were rising gradually ( 4 volts per 10 minutes , as in S 18 ) , blowing was stopped .
As soon as the bubbling ceased , the first-mentioned observer , without moving his head or his body ( see S 7 , regarding the necessity to have the electrometer screened from outside influences ) blew into the jar to displace the negatively electrified air in it .
In every case the electrometer reading showed instantly a small rise in the positive direction .
In the carrying out of these experiments we have received much valuable help from Walter Stewart , M.A. , and Patrick Hamilton , B.Sc. S 33 .
The very interesting experiments described by Lenard , in his paper on the Electricity of Waterfalls , * and by Professor J. J. Thomson , on the Electricity of Drops , f show phenomena depending , no doubt , on the properties of matter to which we must look for explanation of the electrical effects of bubbling described in our present communication , and of the electrification of air by drops of water falling through it , to which we have referred as having been found in previous experiments which were commenced in 1890 for the investigation of the passage of electrified air through tubes .
J II .
" Note on the Spectrum of Argon .
" By H. F. Newall Communicated by Lord Rayleigh .
Received February 14 , 1895 .
In the course of a spectroscopic investigation in which I have been for some time past engaged , a line spectrum , which so far as I was able to make out was unknown , has frequently presented itself upon my photographs .
It appeared in May and June , 1894 , under conditions which led me to call it , for the sake of convenience , " the low-pressure spectrum .
" After their announcement at the Oxford meeting of the British Association , it seemed for many reasons * ' Wiedemann 's Annalen , ' 1892 , vol. 46 , pp. 584\#151 ; 636 .
t * Phil. Mag. , ' April , 1894 , vol. 37 , pp. 341\#151 ; 358 .
t " Electrification of Air by a Water Jet .
" By Magnus Maclean and Makita Goto , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' August , 1890 , vol. 30 , pp. 148\#151 ; 152 .

