]\gt ; 1902 .
] Spherical sis .
On some Definite Integrals and a New Method of reducin .
Function of Spherical Co-ordinates to a Series of Spherical Harmonics By ]eceiyed NIay 30 , \mdash ; Read June 5 , 1902 .
Tho expansion of a function of an ngle rying between in terms of a series proceeding the sines of the multiples of depends on the fundametltal theorem , and are integer numbers nob equal to each other .
Simiif denotes the zonal harmonic of degres , and the oxpansion of fuilction of in terms of series of the functions depends on the corresponding theorcm , herc i and are numbers not equal to each other .
In practical applications a continuous function is given by means of its numerical values at poin equidistant vnlues of cases present no difficulty hell Fotlrier 's analysis is to be cllployed , because there is in that case a unmation theorem exactly corresponding to the above integration theorem .
If be replaced by , where takes successively the values.1 , 3 . .
, the equawill hold true .
This allows us to uiuc the CoeCets in the of problems in discontinuous dues of the cquidistant points known , hourly dings of tomperature or rometric pressure ) .
If we assume that adl .
coeificients beyond vanish , equations are obtained , of which only contains of the unknown quantities .
If it is desired to expand a function in terms of iues , slight VOL. LXXI .
Prof. A. Schuster .
[ Ma modification must be introduced , the summation theorem in that case being the first and second terms reprcsenting half the value of the product for and respectively .
There is no corresponding summation in the case of the fimctions , and the application of the method of least squares leads to a series of normal equations , each of lvhich contains all the other coefficients .
This has been one of the great practical difficulties in obtaining an expression for the series of spherical harmonics for the earth 's magnetic potential .
F. E. Neumann has tried to overcome the difficulty by calculating coefficients such a way that Here are the quantities for which the valucs of the function to be represented are known .
Neumanll'S process is equivalent to attaching weights proportional to to the different observations , a proceeding against which theoretical objections might ] ) urged .
2 .
The expansion in terms of a series of cosines and sines being so much easier than the direct expansion in terms of a series of the functions , I have endeavoured to obtain the latter Rsries by means of the former .
It is well known that a function of an angle , which is confined to the values lying between , may be pnt either into the form . . . . .
, or into the form . . . . .
The reduction to the series of spherical harmonics is accomplished by calculating and tabulating the coefficients iu the series . . . .
, . . .
choice between the cosine and sine series is open to us , but it appears that great simplicity is gained by taking the former series when is odd and the latter when is even .
For in that case the coefficients and will all vanish , as lo , ng as is smaller than 1902 .
] On Spherical Harmonic Anatysis .
When it is therefore desired to retain only terms as as the degree , the Fonrier coefficients need only be calculated as far as .
The position of the earth 's magnetic axis , e.g. , only depending on the terms of the first degree , is completely determined by the coefficients for and ) for 3 .
The symbolical representation of the results of this paper is much facilitated by the introduction of a separate symbol for the product of aIternate factors , 1 , if be odd , or .
2 if be odd .
I propose to w1ite ! !
for such products , and if a name be required for the product to call it the " " alternate factorial\ldquo ; the " " double factorial Full advantage of the new symbol is only gained by extending its meaning to negative values of .
Its complete lcfinition may then be included in the eqnations ! !
, 1 ! !
, 2 ! !
this we may derivs when is negative and odd hile f negative and even , the factorial becomes infinitely large .
4 .
The calculation of the factors , and depends on the values of the definitc integraIs nnd these may be made to depend on the values of the integraIs and It is pro that , if be even , if be odd , ' if odd , if be even .
The factor is equal to 2 or to according as is even or odd . .
The integrals 100 Prof. A. Schuster .
[ May ) ) are obtained in the form of a series having a finitc number of terms .
6 .
To find and we may either express or the trigonometrical functions in terms of a series of powers of .
The second alternative leads to results which in general are more convenient .
If we put ; ; ' .
; ; ; ' we find if be even , odd , and .
even , - . .
and if be even , l ) even , and even , . . .
If be sven , the is zero .
Similar equations arc for 7 .
The final sultS expressed If denote the eoefticient of the series of sphericnI harmonics when , and coelticicnt , being 1902 .
] On iTarmonic Analysis .
101 the longitndc , the resnlts of the investigation may be put into the form , , wheIl r is eve1l , rr odd .
odd .
, , , , odd , , , : , even .
, , cvelt .
odd .
, , , , odd , , , 1 ' even .
these equations the factors are the coefficients of the Fourier series ( see S 2 ) , and the quantities arc 'umcrical quantities , which ( as well as their logarithms ) are gi tables at the end of the paper as far .
By mcans of these tables the ntlmerical work is reduced to a minimum , and the coefficicnts of the scries may be obtained as far as terms of the 12th degree .
8 .
The proposed method is adapted deal with problems like that of terrestrial gnetism , in which the function to ) obtained a series of spherical harmonios is not given directly , by means of its differential cocfficients .
The force directed to the geographical north may by 's analysis be obtained a , the terms of which have the form , and when even , form , si when is odd .
Integrating with respect to , the gnetic potential is obtained in form such that the formation into the series of spherical harmoIlics may ) proceeded with .
A separate expression of the 1nagnetic potential is derived from the force directed to the geogr east .

