On the Milk lTusks , and Organ of Hearing of the Dugong .
By Siir Everard Home , Bart. V.P.R.S. Read April 13 , 1820 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1820 , p. 144 .
] The skull upon which the following observations were made , was sent to the author from Sumatra by Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles , and is the only perfect specimen in Europe .
The milk tusks were first examined ; and as their points only were visible , one of the bony canals in which the tusk is contained was laid open : it was removed from its soclket , and cut through longitudinally , when it appeared similar to the milk tusks of the narwhale and elephant , and like them deficient in external smoothness as compared with the permanent tusks .
The milk tusk of the dugong is peculiar in having a shallow cup attached to its base , apparently for the purpose of receiving the point of the permanenlt tusk as soon as formed ; and as the milk tusk advances in the act of being shed , the other may be directed forwards in the same course , which differs from that in which it set out .
The milk tusks of the dugong have hitherto been mistaken for its permanent tusks , the appearance of which is unknown , since no fullgrown skull has hitherto been examined .
The grinding teeth differ from those of any other known animal : they consist of a double cone , the external crust of which is not enamel , and covers an interior harder coat ; the bulk of the tooth consisting of soft ivory , so that in wearing down , these teeth will be formed into a concave surface .
The organ of hearing presents a peculiarity , says the author , unknown in any other tribe of animals ; the malleus and incus being fastened to the sides of the tympanum by a bony substance extending across the intervening space ; the stapes is opposed to , but not connected with the foramen of the incus ; the handle of the malleus projects in the centre of the circle over which the membrana tympani had been spread , so that in the perfect animal it is doubtless attached to the centre of the membrane .
The habits of the dugong being allied to those of the hippopotamus , Sir Everard was induced to examine how far this peculiarity of structure might exist in the latter animal ; it is , however , perfectly different , the ossicula in the ear of the hippopotamus being separate , and readily dropping out of the cavity of the tympanum .
The ossicula of the hippopotamus are small compared with the size of the animal ; but the cochlea makes two turns and a half , which is uncommon .
The semicircular canals present no apparent peculiarity .
In the dugong the semicircular canals are extremely small , as is the cochlea , which only makes one turn and a half .
The peculiar bony union of the ossicula of the ear with the skull renders it probable that this animal is more indebted for its hearing , than any other that lives in the water , to the vibrations received by the bones of the skull being communicated to the ossicula , and thence to the cochlea and canals .

