]\gt ; On the heory of the Currnamo .
resulting relations of potential in the secondary and the tims will be indicated by the dotted line HIJKOLMNPQ .
The mean square observed will be proportional to ; but .LP is proportional to EL , hence the potential observed will vary inversely as , even though the maximum induction remain constant .
If then the maximum induction be deduced on the assumption that the induction is a simple harmonic function of the time , resuIts may readily be obtained vastly in excess of the truth .
II .
" " Note on the Theory of the Alternate Current Dynamo By JOHN HOPKINSON , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received Februaly 17 , 1887 .
According to the accepted theory of the alternate current dynamo , the equation of electric current in the armature is periodic ion of , where is a constant coefficient of self-induction .
This equation is not ictly true , inasmuch as is 1iot in general constant , * but it is a most useful approximation .
My present pnrpose is to indicate bow the values of and of the periodic function representing the electromotive force can be calculated in a machine of given configuration .
To fix ideas , we will suppose the machine considered to have its magnet cores arranged parallel to the axis of rotation , that the cores are of uniform section , also that the armature bobbins have iron cores , so that we regard all the lines of induction as passing either through an armature coil , or else between adjacent poles entirely outside the armature .
The sketch shows a development of the machine considered .
The iron is supposed to be so arranged that the currents * ' ' On the Theory of ting C\ldquo ; 'Telegr .
Engine .
Journ vol. 13 .
1884 , p. 496 .
Dr. J. Hopkinson .
induced therein may be neglected .
We further suppose for simplicity that the line integral of magnetic force within the armature core may be neglected .
Let be the effective area of the space between the pole piece and armature core when the cores are in line , the distance from iron to iron .
Let be the section of magnet core , the effective length of a pair of magnet limbs , so that may be regarded as the length of the lines of force as measured from one pole face to the nsxt .
Let be the number of convolutions in a pair of limbs , and , the convolutions in one armature section , , the iodic time .
The time is measured from an epoch when the armature coil we shall cousider is in a symmetrical position in a field which we shall regard as positive .
and are the currents in the magnet and armature coils , the positive direction being that which produces the positive field at time zero .
At time the armature coil considered has area cos(4t/ T)\amp ; c. in a positive field ; and area cos(4t/ T)-\amp ; c. in a negative field , where and . .
The coefficients \amp ; c. , are deducible by Fourier 's theorem from a drawing of the machine under consideration .
On the Theory of the Alternate Current .
169 .
Let I be the total induction in the magnet core , and let at time distributed into I ' through through and Ias a waste fleld to the neighbonring poles .
The line integral of magnetic force from the pole to either adjacent pole is I ' , where is a constant .
We have first to determine I ' , I ' ' , I in terms of and Take the line integral of magnetic force in three ways through the n1agnets , and respectively through area , through area and across between the adjacent poles\mdash ; ; whence I ' When , and are given , this would suffice to determine I by means of the known properties of the material of the magnets as represented by the function .
We will , however , consider two extreme cases between which other cases will lie .
First.\mdash ; Suppose that the intensity of induction in the magnet cores is small , so that may be neglected , the iron being very far from saturation .
We have\mdash ; I'\mdash ; I ' We see that the coefficient of self-induction in general contains terms in ) .
Second.\mdash ; In actual work it would be nearer the truth to suppose that the magnetising current is so great that the induction I may be regarded as constant , and the quantity as considerable .
But as small changes in I imply very great changes in , its value cannot be regarded as known .
We have then\mdash ;

