]\gt ; .
Rankine , Sir GREENIIILL , ( Received Jume 19 , 1917 .
) tions , ' vol. p. 127 , " " The Exact Form of Waves at the Surface of Deep Rankine 's Wave Theory of 1862 is in the 'Philosophical TransacWater The theory finds favoul with bhe naval architect from its simple geometrica ] structure , ible to a student of elementary mathematics .
But this student does not like to be reminded that the waves at sea are not trochoidal , as this would require a supernatural state of internal colnmotion in the watel , involving a distribution of molecular rotation .
Sea waves are not nent , in a state of perpetual growth and decay , in a procession of group motion .
The Rankine theory will serve , however , as a first introduction to the stnucture of wave motion in water , so Rankine 's treatment is reproduced here , with some simplification in his ) .
But , so , the Rankine trochoidal wave has defied any effort eneralisa t , as to a kindred state of wave motion in water ; or to the stationary wave in reflexion at wall .
The equation of continuity breaks down , and cannot be satisfied : cavitation takes place , or else overcrowding of the particles of water .
At the recent meeting of the Institution of Naval Architects , March , 1917 , I have shown ] , if thin parallel vertical walls are introduced into the watel , perpendicular to the wave crest , without the wave motion , dividing the watcl into compartments , these water compartments may be .
each other in an arbitrary manner , .
the wave front an chelon appearance , like a line of advancing , and the wave motion will contin in each comparlment .
ynolit may also be sheared in these conpartments by inclinin the walls at the , angle with the vertical , like a row of books sloping over on .
The circular orbib of a particle in the Rankine wave motion will then slopc over at this angle , and his waves can exist between two parallel eitl ) else over at any assigned angle .
When walls are brought close together shear steps are small , we can pass from discrete teps to continuous shear , uniform or variable ; wave front can then advance at ally angle with the of the water motion , or in any curve .
With a straight crest , the vertical section of the surface by a plane The allel to the shear is the original trochoid , and by ) ] plane a sinusoid , by another plane a foreshortened trod These curves can be shown off as various aspects or ' revolving helix of wire , which to have its axis horizontal to imitaCe the wave motion .
But it is more conyenient in the expel.iment to let the helix hang vertically by ( thread and ) , and to treat the axis horizontal in inlagination .
Any projection by parallel of the helix on will a trochoid : a cycloid , if a line of projection can toueb the helix .
A projection by horizontal lines on will be inUHoid ; any othel projection in will be } foreshortened trochoid .
In this way it is possible to round in he Rankine wave , and extend the treatlnent in some fresh directions .
But here a delicate question arises , reqmring examination .
eontinuitu ' of the motion preserved in the compartments when sheared , and also the free surfaee condition of constant pressure .
But the of the pressure in crossing a wall must be examined , this break down .
some new variable field of force must be introduced in addition to the constant field of vertical gravit the continuity of is to be ) eserved wlten the walls or are suppressed .
Reduced to standing wave by a revel'sal of the wave velocity , or , or else by taking a moving origin , as in a ship moving with aves , the motion is treated as steady motion , and the equation of continnity and of is somewhat easier to investigate .
This been carried out by ankine in his paper , 'Phil .
Trans 1863 , and we are at liberty to apply to this steady motion a constant , cross-current velocity , to the wave crest .
The effect is to nake a streanr line change from a trochoid to an elongated projection of the trochoid , on ( vertical ] at an } with the wave crest .
Adyancing waves called rollers ' and the wave ) ) called swell\ldquo ; ( houle ) in tho of tho sailor .
Any intermediate state between rollers and a swell will be eucou1ltered by a st across the crest .
To an observer un board wave motion ) ' swell if the advances at the same rate as the ; and relative motion ears steady , as in the trochoidal wave .
But at any velocity the pears to be a mixture of the roller and the swell .
The steamer may be faster or slower than the rollers , or opposite direction , head to .
A sailing ship before the Sir G. Greenhill .
the water .
than the rollers , will be overtaken by the wave , and } of ) " " pooped When the coul .
SC of the ship is parallel to the wave crest of the rollers , ) \ldquo ; is said to be .
The circular orbit of the Rankine rollel i , s then drawn out into a helix in the motion relative to the ship .
And this is vectorially to the relative motion for a course perpendicular to the wave crest , when a course is steered at any other angle and iveIl elocity .
In this way the trochoidal motion of nkine can be ded to motion in three dimensions .
oeturning a to the waves , and the circular orbit of a particle the effect of this cross current is to change the circle into a helix of stationary form in rotation ) passing through itself , as a screw through a or boar with no apparent alteration of the form of the wave surface .
The qnestion arises further , whether it is legitimate to shear the Rankine ulotion in vertical planes parallel to the wave crest .
In the previous states ot sheal the water was supposed divided up , by a number of thin vertical lanes at close intervals , into compartments in which the motion can exist independently of the neighbours on each side , any pressure difference being taken np on the separating wall .
In the Rankine theory of the ancing waves , or rollers in the sailol.'S , the orbit of a pal.ticle is a circle .
But with respect to a vessel with the waves , { he wave llotion will be sGationary on the side relatively to the hull , while the water streams past , in trochoidal streamlines .
The elative n is reduced to a state of steady motion with respect to an on the vessel , as in a , wave or swell .
To an observer asJlore the waves } as rollers .
is easier to examine the continuity and dynamical conditions in the steady llotion of the swell and so , Bankine , a stream-line LBM is considered in , a trochoid enerated by a point fixed on a circle , , and eircumference the waye-length , rolling at A on the underside of a horizontal line OA with wave velocity , and angular velocity velocity of is theu 7/ .
AB to AB ; and with , the co-ordinates of are , ( 1 ) and it .
velocities .
( 2 ) Join ) , and the ncxt trochoid a little lower down , produced by !
: Tloe folling an equal circle , centre and Ldditional depth FIG. 1 .
crossing AB , NB in , the infinitesimal Bbedf is a small reduced copy of AB'CBGA ; so that , and is a angle : and may be taken as a tangent eleluent of the trochoid through Then : and with , and ' , ( 4 ) so that diminishes in G.P. with the depth l ) .
in A.P. , and in accordance with the Exponential Theorem , .
The flow across Bb due to the velocity .
AB perpendicular to AB is .
AB . .
AB .
, ( 6 ) Sir G. GreeYlhill .
the same for all sections that the space between the ( -.an flow full and the condition ot continuity is assured .
The arc ance d of the lase angle ; so that an of , between .
; and area of a between the choids L , lbm is This the area of a stratunl of the same half -length and depth , if , ( 11 ) and in of the line through of trochoid .
height when the stream I is flattened into a horizontal line in still " " rises\ldquo ; its former mean level by this amount at the surface .
Thus 1na.y bc taken as the rise 011 the side of the mean water line a vessel , several waYc e long , moored in the current of these standtrochoidal waves .
AIld the between trochoid stream-lines finite distance apart is times the depth of the stratum when at rest .
The curve is shown in Froude 's figure of Rankine 's memoir , and is identified , by the property of the constancy of the , as a logarithmic curve , referred to oblique axes , one vertical , the other inclined at the angle .
This may be called the curve of a bulrush , waving in the water .
The curve is recognised also in the tra.ectory of a sphere in still water or air when the resistance varies as the velocity ; and then descends with the terminal velocity , and CB Tn 1 , cordance with roulette theory , the circle of inflexions of the trochoid is diameter , and the radius of curvature , , with , ( 12 ) implying .
( 13 ) if is the increase of pressure along to the next trochoid force along , ( 14 ) The oided Wave .
the same as in circular orbit of the roller wave , with stationary centre ; so the } and are the sam as in water .
We are using Rankine 's rayitation units of the } .
system ( foor-pound-second ) is measuretl in lb/ ft- , density ?
in inverse point in the , and draw HK ontal , bisecting AA ' at right .
With BD , the triangles ABC , , are similal so the particle moves ) the as if a smooth , switchbaek railway , with velocity due to the level of In the liquid streanl veen LBM lbm , the is inversely the velocity , .
AB .
If is the pressure ( of the particle , of so that , the pressure per unit length of the stream ( 20 ) as before .
The liquid particles are crowded togethel , and bunch up , like traffic on the road , near , where the speed is small , and then tail out towards as Ihe speed increases .
Treating a horizontal step from to the next trochoid at , the difference of pressure at and is ( 21 ) , ( 22 ) With thin compartments of breadth , sheared at angle and the pressure difference on the sides of a wall , .
tau , ( 24 ) requiring the introduction of a field of force of this intensity perpendicular to Ihe wall .
Sir G. Greenhill .
The waves cannot exist , then , the way front slewed through this ithout the duction of this horizontal field of force pendicuJar to the vertical ] ) lane of the circular orbits or trochoidal streanl .
So also a vertical shear of the compartments would require an additional field of .
But if the walls of the compartments lean over at an angle with the vertical , the trochoidal stream-lines can still remain comparable with each orher in the steady motion of the wave , and in the rollers the circular orbits are inclined at to the vertical .
motion can persist the alls are eIloved , without a need of an additional field of forcP , , provided is replaced by In the associated state of wave motion of small displacement , the velocity function is changed from to , ( 26 ) endicular to a wall at , and with circular to So examining if it is possible to cut down the original free trface of the ankine wave motion between the slanting walls , to a mean } buch that it can still remain a surface of constant pressule , without intelfe , with the continuity of the pressure in the interior .
the liquid lnotion between two vertical parallel to the wave crest of standing trochoidal waves in steady streaJning lnoCion , and the tlochoidal ) of a ) article when a horizontal field of gravity , .
is ntroduced perpendicular to the walls in addition to the vertical field we assume will not interfere with the motion .
Cover the free , surface with a fixed cylinder moulded to the surface of the running water in stationary waves , of taking a variation of pressure .
The liquid motion is altered by the new field , , and continuity will be preserved , but a surface of equal pressure will change in the interior of the water ; and if a new surface of equal pressure is composed of -lines , the water above may be removed , and a new state of motion is obtained in a field of ravity q , and the plane of a trochoidal path is inclined at an angle with the resultant gravity .
pose , , the is reduced to , and a new field is introduced perpendicular to the walls ; this is to a field at an with the walls and Bernoulli 's equation in ( 40 ) changes with absolute units into The where is constant alonl a stream-line ; H. Then is constant -line , if and then ( 29 ) along the profile of a vertical section pai'allel to the perpendicular to the walls , a line points of equalpressure .
A surface of equal pressure is built up of these profiles , and since , to tisfy the continuity , the prolile is the eurve , ( 30 ) aving an tatl , bhe new Thus ) water may be drawn off one of these surfaces of equal pressure , and , the walls ) an with the ical , field of may bc made al. A of is then realised in the plane of stream-line .
of the circular orbit of the rollers ) is parallel to the } ) ] , the wave alnplitudc dying out in G.P. as it ecedes f the } ) side of the sloping vaves ditlinish in height the under side of a } ) wall , so illustrate the form of a wave unJer the sloping bow of a steamer .
These new stationary trochoidal wavefi may ) changed into moving rollers by reversing the eneral stream of the water in the steady motion , and then the velocity of advance will be .
( 31 ) The curve on the wal ] or sloping shore of the surface of the water will be a trochoid , stationary , or adyancing velocity the wave ests reaching out to the offing at sea with amplitude , and tending to the nall motion considered previously in ( 26 ) of waves along a sloping beach .
The analytical expression of the Rankine wave or roller may ) stated and generalised , in the Lagrangian form , with Ox in the surface perpen dicuhr to the wave crest , and .
vertically downward , , ( 32 ) where are supposed functions of the depth , determined from the condition of the equation of continuity .
Afterwards the pressure equation can inyestigated , and the condition for frec urfare , if possible .
XCIV .
kSir G. Greenhill .
Thell by differentiatiol ( 33 ) , ( 34 ) and this must ) independent of for of continuity to ) satisfied .
Thus constant , ( 36 ) ( 37 ) the particle orbit is an ellipse .
Tn the associated steady motion swell , ( ) cof$ ) ) in Bernoulli 's equation a gravity field ( 40 ) is constant along a stream-line .
Here all the terms are of the dimensions of length .
But this condition cannot be satisfied unless , and the of he a circle , and we arrive at the ankine motion , and then ( 41 ) is constant along a stream-line , if ( 42 ) Otherwise , if and are unequal , an additional field of force must be introduced to make a free surface possible .
Pankine 's wave to a wave by a combination with a reflected wave ( 43 ) a liqlid particle oscillates in a straight line ; but , ( 44 ) and the equation of continuity is not satisfied ; so it is useless to proceed rther , unless is treated as negligible .
The Rankine .
247 A So also , if we tried to eneralise the equations of wave lnotion of small displacement in shallow water of depth , with ( 45 ) the equation of cont i cannot ) satisfied , unless we supp ) , nd AB insensible , and then we arrive at the ordinary tbeory for waves of displacement in shallow wat , er , and XRct e cannot be aintained .
In usual ) eory of of the straight cresled wnve of small displacenlent in a canal , yhere the fnnction ros is a function ) satisfying the condition of continuity , ( 4b ) and the conditions at the boundary .
The lines of flow are iven by , ( 47 ) and if two solutions can be obtained of these differen tial equations , in the fornl , then will give a surface which can hold the motion , and this is the solution of the partial equation .
( 48 ) Any of the solutions obtained hitherto in hdro vnam t for wave lnotion can be sheared continuously in a vertical plane perpendicular to the straight vave crest at an angle , constant or , and the wave crest ma be made to take any curve , and the shape of the containing vessel ]/ lay be determined to hold the new motion .
But if continuity in the pressure is to be preserved , field of force must be introduced , ( 49 ) and in the pressure equation , in gravitation units , constant , ( 50 ) so that the shenr , with unaltered , ( of a Rotation , dion .
Interpreted in uniplanar motion and a vector velocity , with components , the circulation is defined as the line integral of the tangential component of the velocity ; divided by twice the area , this is the curl or rotation , by analogy with a rigid body , and of a liquid moving bodily as if solid .
Sir G. if 1 , de ote the direction of the outward drawn normal of a urve / , and the circulation ( 52 ) while , the area line .
in closed FIG. 2 .
curve at , . .
and leaying it at , . . .
; then at entry , at exit , ' so that similarly ?
l ?
/\amp ; ( 54 ) ( 55 ) ( 56 ) For a small circuit of an area element , enclosing a point , the rotnt ion becomes .
rotation about , with Consider the from in the notion round the of are , in fig. 1 .
The circulation .
Al ; . ?
( 59 ) The lia )'ochoidal I Varc .
and the couuLer circulation over cus , ( 60 ) the .
( 61 ) counter circulalion circulation is 2 ( bin ) i , s tion liquid lolatio could not ) up in fluid under the action of ) of surroundiu liquid , on the principle of cylindrical or spherical element of liquid .
instance , if lidified , could not acqu r rotation , ( lose it .
As stated by in ' De ) VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A.

