I. " On the Changes produced in the Blood by the administration of Cod-liver Oil and Cocoa-nut Oil .
" By THEOPIILUV THOMPSON , M.D. , F.R.S. Received March 30 , 1854 .
The author has found that during the administration of cod-liver oil to phthisical patients their blood grew richer in red corpuscles , and he refers to a previous observation of Dr. Franz Simon to the same effect .
The use of almond-oil and of olive-oil was not followed by any remedial effect , but from cocoa-nut oil results were obtained almost as decided as from the oil of the liver of the Cod , and the author believes it may turn out to be a useful substitute .
The oil employed was a pure cocoa oleine , obtained by pressure from crude cocoa-nut oil , as expressed in Ceylon and the Malabar coast from the Copperah or dried cocoa-nut kernel , and refined by being treated with an alkali and then repeatedly washed with distilled water .
It burns with a faint blue flame , showing a comparatively small proportion of carbon , and is undrying .
The analysis of the blood was conducted by Mr. Dugald Campbell .
The whole quantity abstracted having been weighed , the coagulum was drained on bibulous paper for four or five hours , weighed and divided into two portions .
One portion was weighed and then dried in a water-oven , to determine the water .
The other was macerated in cold water until it became colourless , then moderately dried and digested with ether and alcohol to remove fat , and finally dried completely and weighed as fibrin .
From the respective weights of the fibrin and the dry clot that of the corpuscles was calculated .
The following were the results observed in seven different individuals affected with phthisis in different stages of advancement : Red corpuscles .
Fibrin .
First stage , before the use f Female 129-26 4-52 of cod-liver oil ... ... Male 116-53 13-57 First stage , after the use f Female 136-47 5'00 of cod-liver oil ... ... Male 141-53 4-70 Third stage , after the use Male 14 22 of cod-liver oil ... ... J Third stage , after the use f Male 139-95 2-31 of cocoa-nut oil ... ... Male 144-94 4-61

