Production of Characteristic 511 of course , taken off when the piece was removed from the compression machine and put into the tension machine .
The amount of compressive stress applied was measured with sufficient accuracy for the purpose by means of the extensometer .
In this way the effect of friction between the jacket and the piece was eliminated from the measurement of stress .
The Direct Production of Characteristic Rontgen Radiations by Cathode P By R T. Beatty , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Emmanuel College , Clerk Maxwell Student of the University of Cambridge .
( Communicated by Sir J. J. Thomson , O.M. , F.RS .
Received October 29 , \#151 ; Read December 5 , 1912 .
) It is now well known that many elements can be stimulated to produce characteristic X-rays .
So far , the only successful method of obtaining the characteristic rays has been to place the element in the path of a beam of X-rays , whereupon it becomes a secondary radiator ; and , if the exciting X-rays have the necessary penetrating power , the characteristic rays will make their appearance .
Some years ago a remarkable paperf by Kaye appeared , in which he showed that if an element , say , copper , were made the anticathode in an X-ray bulb , it could become a source of intense radiation characteristic of copper .
An explanation of these results was at once suggested by Barkla and Sadler . !
Their view was that the cathode rays on striking the copper plate gave rise to X-rays , some of which penetrated into the copper and thus excited the radiation characteristic of copper .
In other words , the effect was indirectly produced by the cathode rays .
But with our present knowledge of the amount of energy transformed in such an operation , we can calculate the magnitude of the effect to be expected on this theory .
But the amount of characteristic radiation found by Kaye is about ten times greater than can be accounted for by such a calculation .
In the present paper an attempt has been made to find the method of * The expenses of this research have been partially covered by a Government Grant made through the Royal Society .
t Kaye , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 209 , pp. 123\#151 ; 151 .
X Barkla and Sadler , ' Phil. Mag. , ' May , 1909 , pp. 739\#151 ; 760 .
512 Dr. R. T. Beatty .
Production of Characteristic [ Oct. 29 , production of characteristic radiation under these conditions ; the conclusion arrived at is that the bulk of the effect is due to a direct transformation of the energy of the cathode rays into characteristic X-rays ; that the small remainder is due to the indirect action suggested by Barkla and Sadler , and that the direct and indirect effects happen simultaneously as soon as the speed of the cathode rays exceeds a definite value .
Apparatus .
A pencil of cathode rays from a discharge tube entered a brass cylindrical vessel which was wound with wire to form a solenoid.* Bays of given speed could thus be separated out by magnetic deflection , and allowed to pass into the glass tube A ( fig. 1 ) which contained the anticathodes ; the latter were arranged on a moving car which could be moved by an external magnet which Cedhode rays of known speed +200 volts attracted an iron armature on the car .
Thus different substances could be brought in turn into position to serve as a target for the pencil of cathode rays .
The X-rays thus produced emerged through an A1 window O'OOl cm .
thick and were received in the ionisation chamber B , which was closed at the ends by thin A1 leaf .
The ionisation thus produced in B was measured by the * For details of the method of isolating rays of given speed , see Whiddington , 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 .
See also Kaye ( .
cit. ) for the manipulation of a set of anticathodes .
1912 .
] Rontgen Radiations by Cathode Particles .
electroscope C , which was of the balanced quadrant pattern described by the author some years ago in the ' Philosophical Magazine .
' It will be understood that the apparatus was thoroughly shielded from the X-rays , so that only a narrow pencil was allowed to pass along the axis of the chamber B. It is necessary to know the number of cathode rays which strike the anticathode during an observation in order to correlate the ionisations observed with different anticathodes .
A method of doing this was devised which simplified the labour of reducing the observations and was accurate in practice .
The interior of the tube A was lined with A1 foil and placed in metallic connection with the system of anticathodes .
The current due to the cathode rays passed from A to earth through a variable resistance P. Part of the current also passed through a much higher resistance Q to the ionisation chamber .
By varying the resistance P the leak in the chamber due to the X-rays from A could be balanced by the fraction of current due to the cathode rays which entered the chamber through Q , and so the electrode could be kept at zero potential throughout an observation .
Let C be the current leaving A ; a fraction PC/ ( P + Q ) will enter the ionisation chamber : since P is small compared with Q we may write PC/ Q : hence when a balance is obtained the leak due to X-rays while unit quantity of electricity is transported by the cathode rays is proportional to P. Hence the only observations to be taken are those of the resistance P and of the deflecting current in the solenoid : the latter gives the speed of the cathode rays .
For the resistance P a uniform glass tube containing a mixture of glycerine and copper sulphate was used , with a sliding electrode to regulate the length of tube employed .
The tube was calibrated from time to time and the resistance was found to keep constant ; the electrodes were made of copper and no polarisation effect greater than 1/ 200 volt could be observed .
The currents used were of the order of 10-5 ampere , so that no polarisation effects due to unequal concentration of the electrolyte were to be expected .
The resistance Q was more difficult to devise .
The problem was to construct a resistance of about 1012 ohms and to avoid polarisation and creeping of electric charges .
A mixture of xylol and alcohol in a glass tube was tried , as described by Norman Campbell , but the electric absorption of the glass caused large and irregular deflections in the electroscope .
Thus if the end A of the glass tube were earthed while B was raised to a potential of 10 volts , then on earthing B and connecting A to an electroscope fluctuations of the leaf took place for several seconds .
VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; A. 514 Dr. R. T. Beatty .
Production of Characteristic [ Oct. 29 , Among other things a fine cotton thread was tried as a resistance ; it was kept in tension between two metal hooks .
Owing to the small volume of the thread the absorption effect was eliminated , also the thread obeyed Ohm 's law and showed no polarisation effect of more than 1/ 100 volt .
Unfortunately such threads are susceptible to temperature changes and will not maintain a constant resistance over many hours .
Finally a quartz tube was used .
Copper caps were soldered to its ends , and the tube was filled with a mixture of xylol and alcohol ; a movable plunger sliding at the upper end served to alter the effective length of the tube .
Such an arrangement behaves in every way like a metallic resistance and is recommended to workers who wish to use a resistance of the order mentioned .
Results .
It will simplify our conceptions if we create a phrase to describe that part of the radiation from any anticathode which only depends in quality on the speed of the cathode rays : in opposition to the " characteristic radiation " we shall refer to this as the " independent radiation .
" Thus we have emerging from any anticathode a beam consisting of two parts\#151 ; the independent radiation , which is always present , and the characteristic , which only appears when the cathode rays are sufficiently fast .
Let us now find the relative radiation from any anticathodes for different speeds of the cathode rays , and with absorbing screens of A1 placed in the path of the X-rays .
The results of such a series of experiments are shown in fig. 2 , where the ordinates represent the ionisation observed when Cu is used as anticathode divided by that observed when Cu is replaced by Al .
The relative radiation remains constant till the cathode rays attain a speed of 6'25 x 109 cm .
per sec. , at which speed the characteristic radiation of Cu appears .
By interposing continually thicker Al screens the characteristic radiation is screened off relatively to the independent radiation , which is more penetrating .
A glace at the curves will show that as this happens the curvea make a more and more rapid return to the line from which they had departed .
In other words the ratio of the independent radiations from any two anticathodes is unaffected by the appearance of the characteristic radiation in one or both of them .
The value of the ratio itself is not quite constant for any particular element relative to Al , when the velocity of the cathode rays is varied ; it tends to rise in some cases with higher speeds .
The ratio in the case of Cn and Al , however , keeps the constant value of 3 throughout .
The next step was to prepare two Cu anticathodes , one 0'2 cm .
thick , the 1912 .
] Rontgen Radiations by Cathode .
other 0 0005 cm .
thick .
Two similar anticathodes were also made and covered with a single sheet of A1 foil 0'0003 cm .
thick .
The radiation from these anticathodes was passed through Cu screens ; by 4p3cm ?
06cm ^04 cm ^OBcrrT Speed of cathode particles -s- 10 ' .
The numbers on the curves represent the thickness of absorbing sheet of A1 used .
this means a selective transmission of the Cu radiation is effected and the independent radiations are largely screened off .
Now consider the effects which may conceivably be produced when cathode rays fall on a Cu anticathode .
We may arrange the effects in a table of transformation of energy as follows:\#151 ; Cathode rays .
Independent radiations .
Characteristic radiations . !
Characteristic radiations.* * Produced by that half of the independent radiation which enters into the Cu ; hence an indirect product of the cathode rays , t Produced directly by the cathode rays .
Thus the emergent radiation is composed of three parts ; the independent radiations , and the direct and indirect characteristic radiations .
2 n 2 516 Dr. R. T. Beatty .
Production of Characteristic [ Oct. 29 , Using symbols for brevity , we may write the tables thus:\#151 ; Bare Cu anticathode .
Cathode rays .
3x y I 3z Cu anticathode covered with A1 foil .
Cathode rays .
x 6* z * Since the cathode rays cannot reach the Cu .
We have shown that Cu is three times as efficient an " independent " radiator as Al , so , where we write xand 2 in one case , we must write and 3z in the other .
The Al foil may be taken to be perfectly opaque to cathode rays , and to transmit 99 per cent , of the X-rays used .
Hence , when the radiations emerging from the bare Cu plate would give ionisation represented by 3 x + y+ 3z , those from the covered plate would give But , since the radiations pass through Cu screens , the independent radiations are cut down Speed of cathode particles -r- 109 .
Speed of cathode particles 4-109 .
Anticathodes\#151 ; ( 1 ) Thick Cu ; ( 2 ) Thick Cu ( 1 ) Direct characteristic ( y ) ; ( 2 ) Indirect ( Al covered ) ; ( 3 ) Thin Cu ( Al covered ) ; characteristic ( 3 ( 4 ) Al .
1912 .
] Rontgen Radiations by Cathode Particles .
517 relatively to the characteristic radiations , so that we may write and kx + s , where k is a small fraction .
Now , in fig. 3 , AB = kx ( independent radiation from an A1 anticathode ) .
AO = kx -I- z. AD = 3kx -f- y-j- 3z .
Hence we can find y and 3z for given speeds of cathode rays ; the corresponding numbers give the amounts of the characteristic radiations produced directly and indirectly respectively .
These radiations are plotted in fig. 4 ; evidently , the direct effect is much larger .
Both effects disappear below a speed of 6*25 x 109 cm .
per second , which is close to the value which was found by Whiddington to be the speed at which the characteristic radiation of Cu is just excited .
It is very remarkable that , whether energy be carried in the form of a cathode particle or of an X-ray caused by that cathode particle , it should be capable of exciting a characteristic X-ray ; one is strongly driven to the conclusion that the same amount of energy is present in each of these two exciting agencies .
Further , fig. 2 shows that there is no diminution in the intensity of the independent radiation when the characteristic appears , that is , the latter is not produced at the expense of the former .
It would seem that , when the characteristic radiation appears , a new mechanism is brought into action quite independent of the mechanism which accounts for the independent radiations .
Note.\#151 ; What is here called direct action may be considered by some readers to be really a transformation of energy of cathode rays into independent radiations , which , within a short distance , are again transformed into characteristic radiations .
That is , the independent radiations might be specially absorbed within a region of molecular size round the region of those radiations .
But , if this were so , there should be a diminution in the intensity of the independent radiation when the characteristic appears ; now , the curves in fig. 2 show that no such effect happens .
In addition , a direct experiment was made to attempt to detect such special absorption , if it existed .
A Cu anticathode , O'OOl cm .
thick , was mounted so as to make an angle of 45 ' with the cathode rays ( as in fig. 1 ) .
Then , by means of an external electromagnet , the frame which held this anticathode could be rotated about a horizontal axis through 90 ' .
That is , the line which represents the side view of the anticathode in fig. 1 would rotate about its centre and , keeping in the plane of the paper , would take up a final position at right angles to its original position .
After such a rotation the 518 Production of Characteristic Radiations .
cathode rays would evidently strike the same point on the anticathode as before , but in the second position the X-rays would be compelled to penetrate the thickness of the anticathode before emerging from the window .
Hence , by taking readings of the ionisation produced when the anticathode was in each of the two positions , the absorption of the X-rays due to passing through the anticathode could be measured .
A similar piece of Cu was then placed in the path of the X-rays after they had emerged from the window ; it was , of course , also placed at an angle of 45 ' to the emerging rays ; the absorption due to it was then measured , and it was found that this absorption was the same as the absorption due to the similar piece of Cu inside the tube , and which served as anticathode .
Hence a sheet of Cu foil cut down the radiation by the same amount whether it was interposed at the actual origin of the rays , or at any point along their path .
Hence no evidence of special absorption could be discovered .
Condusions .
1 .
Cathode rays are able to produce characteristic X-rays directly .
2 .
The atomic mechanisms which account for the independent radiations and for the characteristic radiations are not connected with each other .
I beg to thank Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his counsel and encouragement during the progress of this research .

