378 Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. IY .
[ June 11 , 11 It will be seen from the foregoing statement that if similar spectra be taken as indicating similar molecular conditions , then the vapours , the densities of which have been determined , have not been in the same molecular condition among themselves .
Thus the vapours of K , S , and Cd , at the fourth stage of heat , gave us line , channelled-space , and continuous absorption in the blue respectively .
This is also evidence that each vapour is non-homogeneous for a considerable interval of time , the interval being increased as the temperature is reduced .
VIII .
" Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. IV .
On a new Class of Absorption Phenomena .
" By J. Norman Lockyer , F.R.S. Received May 26,1874 .
1 .
In the experiments on the absorption-spectrum of Na and K vapour heated in a red-hot tube , to which further refeience is made in separate notes , I have observed phenomena quite new to me , some rough drawings of which I lay herewith before the Royal Society .
As the phenomena are only momentary , I cannot answer for the final accuracy of the drawings , nor have I been able to represent the softness of the gradations of shade .
2 .
In the drawings , the red end of the spectrum is to the left ; the D line common to them all is the image of a slit about half an inch long , on which slit the light falls from an electric lamp , through the tube and chamber in which the vapours are produced .
The lower part of the drawings would generally represent , therefore , the spectrum of the less dense vapours were the vapours at rest .
3 .
One of the phenomena referred to consists of what may be described as a unilateral widening of the line D : the side absorption , however , is much less dense than that of the line ; it is bounded by D on one side and by a curved line on the other .
Figs. 1 , 2 , and 3 will give an idea of this appearance in three stages as it is frequently actually seen , i. e. as the absorption travels up or down the line it widens as shown .
Fig. 2 .
1874 .
] Mr. J. N. Lockyer 's Spectroscopic Notes.\#151 ; No. IV .
379 4 .
Figs. 4 and 5 give two variations sometimes observed\#151 ; fig. 4 showing the darkening in the absorption and an increased steepness in the curve ; fig. 5 the simultaneous existence o\#163 ; apparently different absorptions , all bounded by D on one side , but by different curves on the other , and being of different intensities .
5 .
Although , in the preceding drawings , I have represented this unilateral widening exclusively on the more refrangible side of D , I have observed it on the other , though scarcely so frequently .
6 .
Accompanying these appearances , but generally best visible when the absorption with curved boundary is visible on both sides of D , is a brilliant boundary replacing the mere change of shade .
7 .
At times the brilliant boundary is continuous across D , as shown in fig. 6 ; but I append figs. 7 and 8 to show that the phenomena on either aide of D are independent of each other .
On the Anatomy of Connective Tissue fyc .
[ June 18 , 8 .
At times , D puts on the appearance of the limiting line of a chan-nelled-space spectrum , the " easing off " of the absorption being now on one side and now on the other .
9 .
Should all these phenomena be ultimately referred to the causes which produce a channelled-space spectrum ( one of which undoubtedly is the tendency to a unilateral instead of a bilateral widening ) , a line-spectrum will be regarded as a special case merely , and not as an entirely different spectrum , as it has been hitherto ; and the range of molecular combinations in any one element from which line-spectra may be produced is extended .
10 .
The question further arises , whether many of the short lines in spectra are not remnants of channelled-space spectra .
June 18 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. Henry Bowman Brady , Mr. Augustus Wollaston Pranks , Prof. Olaus Henrici , Sir Henry Sumner Maine , and Mr. Osbert Salvin were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " A Contribution to the Anatomy of Connective Tissue , Nerve , and Muscle , with special reference to their connexion with the Lymphatic System .
" By G. Thin , M.D. Communicated by Prof. Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received April 22 , 1874* .
* This Paper will appear in No. 155 .

