370 Prof. Charlotte A. Scott .
On Plane Cubics .
[ Nov. 23 , the centres of the side spans .
In doing so , however , the experiments show that there is a danger of the calculated speed exceeding the actual , whilst by taking all the pulleys on the two side spans into account the calculated speed will be slightly less than the actual speed .
If the spans of a continuous shaft , supported on bearings placed at equal distances apart , are all loaded in the same manner , each whirls independently of the rest , and the problem reduces to that of a loaded shaft supported on bearings at the ends .
The experimental apparatus by which the calculated results have been , for the most part , verified is shown in a figure .
The experimental shaft was 2 ft. 8 in .
long and 0'2488 in .
diameter .
The motion was transmitted from the headstock spindle to the experimental shaft by a fine piece of steel wire ( about 1^ in .
long and 21 B.W.G. diam. ) , so that the shaft was subjected to very little constraint at the end .
The experimental pulleys were models of actual pulleys\#151 ; being designed for both weight and inertia .
The headstock spindle was driven from a turbine , the constancy of the speed being shown by the steadiness of a column of liquid forced by a centrifugal fan indicator up a glass tube .
In taking the number of revolutions corresponding to any period of whirl an ordinary counter pushed into the end of the headstock spindle was used .
In making any experiment three trials were made ( each of three minutes ' duration ) and the mean of the results taken .
Over 150 experiments have been made with this apparatus , and the observed results invariably approximate very closely to the calculated results .
Experiments have also been made with actual cases of shafting , and it would appear that , following the method of solution sketched above , the calculated speed is about 3 or 4 per cent , less than the actual speed .
The experiments were carried out in the Whitworth Engineering Laboratory , the Owens College , Manchester .
V. " On Plane Cubics .
" By Charlotte Angas Scott , D.Sc .
( Loud .
) , Professor of Mathematics at Bryn Mawr College , Pennsylvania .
Communicated by A. R. I ORSYTH , Sc. D. , F.R.S. Received September 9 , 1893 .
( Abstract .
) In this paper the first few sections are devoted to certain constructions for the cubic , its Hessian , and its Cayleyan .
Assuming three collinear inflexions for the cubic , and the tangents at these points , i.e. , eight conditions , one more point determines the cubic , and , consequently , also the Hessian and Cayleyan .
Taking Presents .
1893 ] this point on one of the known harmonic polars , the remaining two points in which the harmonic polar meets the cubic are found by a quadratic construction , and triangular symmetry completes the determination of the cubic ; the inflexional tangents to the Hessian and the cusps on the Cayleyan are found by linear constructions ; and the pairs of points in which these curves are met by the harmonic polar , by quadratic constructions .
Any coincidence among the points so found indicates some special cubic whose properties may thus be investigated ; among these special cubics are the equian-harmonic cubics , whose properties present themselves very simply by means of the preliminary constructions .
These special cubics are the critical ones when we follow out the variation in the Hessian and Cayleyan , which , depending directly on the variation in the original cubic , expresses itself by the change in the relative position of the points determined as above .
This variation is shown in a series of diagrams exhibiting the cubic , its Hessian , and Cayleyan ; and , finally , the results being compared with those derived from analysis , the variation is represented graphically by means of a single diagram .
VI .
" Alternate Current Electrolysis .
" By J. HOPKINSON , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , E. Wilson , and F. Lydall .
Received November 2 , 1893 .
[ Publication deferred .
] P resents , November 23 , 1893 .
Transactions .
Batavia:\#151 ; Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Welen-schappen .
Notulen .
Deel XXX .
Aflev .
3\#151 ; 4 .
8vo .
Batavia 1892-93 ; Tijdschrift voor Indische Taal- , Land- en Yolkenkunde .
Deel XXXV .
Aflev .
5\#151 ; 6 .
Deel XXXVI .
Aflev .
2\#151 ; 3 .
8vo .
Batavia 1893 .
The Society .
Berlin :\#151 ; K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften .
Sitzungs-berichte .
Nos. 23\#151 ; 38 .
8vo .
Berlin 1893 .
The Academy .
Birmingham:\#151 ; Mason College .
Calendar .
1893\#151 ; 94 .
8vo .
Birmingham 1893 .
The College .
Brighton :\#151 ; Brighton and Sussex Natural History and Philosophical Society .
Abstracts of Papers and Annual Report for the year ending June , 1893 .
8vo .
Brighton 1893 .
The Society .
Brisbane :\#151 ; Queensland Branch of the Royal Geographical Society of Australasia .
Proceedings and Transactions .
Vol. VIII .
8vo .
Brisbane 1893 .
The Branch .
Brussels :\#151 ; Academy Royale de Medecine .
Memoires Couronnes .
Tome XII .
Fasc .
2 .
8vo .
1893 .
The Academy .

