188 Proceedings and List of Papers * In the above paper we compared the droplets of Blechnum with the granules or spherules described by Langley as occurring in certain gland cells , e.g. , the mucous cells of the sub-maxillarv gland of the dog ; and I am still of opinion that such a comparison was a pertinent one , and not entirely without significance in the case of the plant cell wall also .
I am disposed to regard the cell wall as fundamentally of the nature of a mucous or , rather , mucilage secretion ; the droplet or spherules ( shall I call them provisionally " teichosomes ?
) being composed of a substance which , when more hydrated , passes as " a mucilage , " and when less hydrated functions as " a cellulose .
" The spherules are embedded in the " ground substance , " and possibly the remains of even a protoplasmic framework ( which may undergo mucilaginous change ) is also present .
I regard stratification as the necessary accompaniment of the rhythmic periods of activity and rest of the secreting protoplasm ; and as to the method of secretion , it is external and not internal , as in the mucilage cells described by Gardiner and Ito .
The changes incident upon lignification and the like I have always regarded as induced by secondary secretion or post-formation chemical change .
I may add that I see little in the above view of the structure of the cell wall which militates against the facts which we have at our disposal , either with regard to the properties of the cell wall or to the phenomena associated with growth in thickness or in surface .
I am aware that much remains to be done before the above views are placed on a proper basis , but I have great hopes that this is only a matter of time and of further detailed research .
February 22 , 1900 .
The LORD LISTER , F.R.C.S. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " Preliminary Note on the Spectrum of the Corona .
Part 2 .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. II .
" On the Structure of Coccospheres and the Origin of Coccoliths .
" By Dr. H. H. Dixon .
Communicated by Professor J. Joly , F.R.S. Preliminary *Note on the Spectrum of the Coi'ona .
189 III .
" The Ionisation of Dilute Solutions at the Freezing Point .
" By W. C. D. Whetham .
Communicated by E. H. Griffiths , F.R.S. " Preliminary Note on the Spectrum of the Corona .
Part 2 .
" By Sir Norman Lockyer , K.C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 8 , \#151 ; Read February 22 , 1900 .
One of the chief results which , in my opinion , would be secured by the use of the prismatic camera in eclipse work was the differentiation between chromospheric and coronal phenomena .
The photographs taken during the eclipses of 1893 , 1896 , and 1898 all enabled this distinction to be made very clearly , and various radiations formerly attributed to the corona have been shown to belong to the chromosphere alone .
The photographs taken in Africa in 1893 showed eight rings in the spectrum of the corona ; in Novaya Zemlaya , in 1896 , with a less powerful instrument , a smaller number was secured ; but those taken with increased dispersion in India , in 1898 , show a much greater number .
I have already given the results of .
an inquiry into the wave-lengths of two of the chief coronal rings ( 5303-7 and 4231-3 ) as determined from photographs taken in 1898 with the 6-inch prismatic camera ; * and as the results of the continued investigations may be of service to intending observers of the eclipse of next May , I give a short abstract of them in the present note .
Eight photographs were obtained during the time the spectrum of the corona was least admixed with that of chromosphere ; of these , three taken with instantaneous exposures show only two or three of the brighter rings , so that five , showing many coronal rings , are suitable for measurement .
The exposures of the photographs used for measurement were as follows , the ratio of focal length to aperture being 15 :\#151 ; No. 2a ... ... ... ... .
50 seconds .
2c ... ... ... ... ... 6 " 3a ... ... ... ... . .
12 " 3c ... ... ... ... ... 7 " 3d ... ... .
8 , , During the earlier part of the exposure of plate 2a , the upper regions of the chromosphere were visible in the north-east , and some of the stronger chromospheric arcs appear , together with the coronal rings , in the corresponding parts of the images .
In plates 3c and 3d chromospheric arcs appear in the south-west quadrant , together with # ' Rov .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 64 , p. 168 .

