1895 .
] India 's Contribution to Geodesy .
IV .
" India 's Contribution to Geodesy .
" By General J. T. Walker , R.E. , C.B. , F.R.S. , LL. D. , late Surveyor-General of India .
Received April 27 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) This paper gives a summary of the operations which have been completed up to date in India to furnish the necessary data of the lengths and the amplitudes of meridional and longitudinal arcs for a mathematical determination of the mean figure of the earth .
It shows that geodetic investigation has already greatly influenced the operations of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India , from its very commencement at the beginning of the present century .
It describes the principal triangulation which has been laid out over the whole face of the country , mostly in meridional and longitudinal chains , and shows how it has been finally reduced and made consistent throughout by processes of calculation which are fully set forth in the published accounts of the operations .
Brief statements of the discrepancies which were met with at the base-lines and the sides of junction of the chains of triangles , and the average values of the angular corrections which had to be applied to satisfy the discrepancies and produce harmony and consistency throughout , are given to indicate the extent to which the triangulation may be relied on for geodetic investigations .
Then the astronomical determinations of latitude , and those of differences of longitude by the electrotelegraphic method , are described and the results are compared with the corresponding geodetic determinations from the triangulation .
All the facts of observation having been given , the question is considered of the extent to which the astronomical determinations have been influenced by local deflections of the plumb line .
The views which have been put forward as regards the attraction of the great Himalayan Mountains on the plumb line are considered ; it is shown that the magnitudes of the attractions computed on the theory of gravitation are considerably greater than is necessary to explain the discrepancies between the astronomical and the geodetic results , and this fact is fully explained by the Indian pendulum operations , which have thrown great light on the constitution of the earth 's crust .
They indicate that there is an excess of density under the sea-level and a deficiency above that level which increases to a very notable magnitude at a high altitude in the Himalayas ; thus , therefore , there must be a condensation of matter under ocean beds , and an attenuation under mountains ; and consequently points must be sooner or later reached at which the positive attraction of a mountain mass is cancelled by the negative attraction of the mass under 158 India 's Contribution to Geodesy .
[ May 16 , the mountain .
The geodetic operations of the survey show the same thing in the Southern Peninsula , which is the part of India closest to the ocean .
Here the latitude stations almost invariably show deflection of the plumb-line towards the ocean , instead of away from it , as might naturally be expected .
Here , too , the astronomical amplitudes of the longitudinal arcs are all too small , with one exception , which can be readily explained , thus also showing deflection of the plumb-line towards the ocean at the stations on the coastline .
It is not difficult to draw a line beyond " which Himalayan attraction need not be feared .
Excluding all stations obviously under Himalayan influence , 148 latitudes and 50 longitudinal arcs remain for employment\#151 ; with similar data obtained in other parts of the world\#151 ; in determining the figure of the earth .
But on comparing the astronomical with the geodetic determinations it is seen , that the former are often grossly influenced by deflections of the plumb-line at points where there is nothing visible to suggest disturbance .
Thus , at the Colaba Observatory , Bombay , there is probably 8 " deflection to the north , while at the Madras Observatory there is probably as great deflection to the south , neither place having any apparent source of meridional attraction ; here the astronomical amplitude is 16 " less than the geodetic , a difference which is fully twenty times greater than any error that can have been made in the triangulation .
There are also discrepancies of corresponding magnitude in the longitudinal arcs at places where there is no apparent source of attraction on the prime vertical .
Clearly , therefore , no single astronomical determination can be regarded as sufficiently free from deflection of the plumb-line to be safely employed in an investigation of the figure of the earth .
But all investigations hitherto made have rested on single determinations .
This , however , must be almost certainly due to the paucity of data ; had a sufficiency of astronomical results been forthcoming to indicate the presence of large local disturbances of the plumb-line and emphasise the necessity to eliminate these disturbances as far as possible before proceeding to employ the astronomical results , there can be no doubt that some attempts at elimination would have been made .
There is only one way of eliminating these errors , and that is to combine the astronomical observations together in groups , each containing determinations at as many places in a given belt of latitude as possible , and to take the mean of the group ; for the mean astronomical latitude of a number of points may certainly be assumed to be far more free from deflection than that of any single point .
The geodetic latitudes of the same points , as obtained from the triangulation , would be similarly combined ; and thus the most accurate 1895 .
] Presents .
data for a mathematical investigation of the earth 's figure would be ^Inthis way eight meridional arcs , extending from latitude 8 ' 43 ' to latitude 30 ' 9 ' , have been produced for India ; they rest on an average of over sixteen stations for each of the fundamental latitudes , and not as usual , on one more station than the number of arcs .
The amplitudes of these arcs vary from 2 ' 23 ' to 3 ' 38 ' , ranging in magnitude with the magnitudes of the mean ultimate local attractions , in accordance with a rule which has been derived from the formula which expresses the error of a geodetic arc in terms of the errors of the major and minor axes .
Two great longitudinal arcs , exceeding 24 ' in amplitude , have been produced by summations of the observed smaller arcs , thus eliminating all errors caused by deflections of the plumb-line at the intermediate stations , and retaining only those at the eastern and western extremities of the entire arcs .
These eight meridional and two longitudinal arcs are put forward as the most valuable data for the investigation of the figure of the earth which have yet been published .
They are the result of operations which have been made in India during a period of over ninety years , always with the cordial support and approval of the Government of India .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 30 .
Presents , May 16 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Basel:\#151 ; Naturforschende Gesellschaft .
Verhandlungen .
BandX .
Heft 3 .
8vo .
Basel 1895 .
The Society .
London:\#151 ; British Museum .
Catalogue of Printed Books .
Pro Pue .
Ric\#151 ; Ris .
Rob\#151 ; Roe .
Roe\#151 ; Rom .
Rom\#151 ; Ros .
5 Parts .
Polio .
London 1895 .
The Museum .
Camera Club .
Journal .
Vol. IX .
No. 108 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Club .
Institution of Mechanical Engineers .
Proceedings .
1894 .
No. 4 .
8vo .
London .
The Institution .
Royal Institution .
Proceedings .
Vol. XIV .
Part 2 .
8vo .
London 1895 ; List of the Members , Officers and Professors .
1894 .
8vo .
London .
The Institution .
Zoological Society .
Report of the Council for the year 1894 .
1894 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Society .
Manchester:\#151 ; Manchester Museum , Owens College , A Catalogue of the Books and Pamphlets in the Library .
8vo .
Manchester 1895 ; Report , from 1st October , 1890 , to 31st December , 1894 .
8vo .
Manchester 1895 .
The Museum .
VOL. LVllI .
N

