$75 .
] On Traumatic Inflammation of Connective Tissue .
309 March 11 , 1875 .
FOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for lem .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; .
41 On Traumatic Inflammation of Connective Tissue .
" By G. Thin , M.D. Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received February 6 , 1875 .
( Abstract .
) The author , referring to observations recorded in his previous papers , listinguishes in the cornea primary bundles of fibrillary tissue , which are covered by elongated flat cells , layers of quadrangular flat cells ( which ire analogous in appearance and relative position to the layers of cells lescribed by him as investing the secondary and tertiary bundles of tendon ) , and the stellate cells .
To these he now adds a description of oarallel chains of spindle cells , each cell having two processes , one at each end of the spindle , by which it is joined to its fellows on either side .
These cells are coextensive with the cornea-substance , and are present in every interspace of the primary bundles , and , consequently , layers in different planes cross each other at an angle .
They can be occasionally seen in thin vertical sections of the fresh frog 's cornea , treated in osmic acid ; and from such preparations a cell with its terminal processes can be sometimes isolated .
They are more easily seen in similar sections which have been 15-30 minutes in half per cent , solution of chloride of gold and then sealed up in concentrated acetic acid and examined 24-48 hours afterwards .
They have no anatomical continuity with the stellate cells .
In the fresh frog 's cornea examined entire in serum , the structure , looked at through the anterior epithelium , can be seen to be broken up by clefts , the borders of which have a double contour .
These clefts extend from the epithelium to a varying depth into the fibrillary tissue .
They are arranged sometimes concentrically , and sometimes in waving lines which give off branches which are narrower as they approach the centre of the cornea .
The double-contoured borders are not parallel to the median plane of the cornea , and can be traced only by changing the focus .
From the existence of these clefts the author infers a division of the cornea-substance into compartments equivalent to the secondary and tertiary bundles of tendon .
In inflammation the clefts are much widened , and their finer ramifications become visible .
In preparations of inflamed cornea different tracts Dr. G. Thin on Traumatic [ Mar. 1 ] of cornea-substance bounded by the clefts are coloured of different shade by chloride of gold , the difference affecting the fibrillary tissue , and mor markedly the spindle cells .
The serous contents of the interspaces of the inflamed cornea diffe in character from those of the healthy cornea , inasmuch as the form show , more abundantly , the dark granular substance which results from the reduction of the chloride of gold .
In a very early stage of inflammation ( after a few hours ) the disten sion of the narrow spaces between the primary bundles and of the wide and more yielding spaces between the lamellae , corresponding to th* larger bundles , favours the action of chloride of gold ; and preparation can thus be obtained by this reagent which show that the two kinds o flat cells which cover the respective surfaces are arranged after th\lt ; manner of an epithelium .
The cells thus seen can be identified by then size , contour , and arrangement as those which are isolable from the healthy cornea by warm saturated solution of caustic potash , and which can be seen in preparations sealed up in aqueous humour .
A similar distension occasionally permits the demonstration of the layers covering the secondary bundles of tendon .
That the successful gold reaction , in such cases , is probably due solely to the distension of the interspaces , is inferred from the fact that , in the tendo Achillis of frogs which have died from disease and have been some hours in water after death , the author has obtained gold preparations showing not only the cells of the secondary bundles ( Banvier 's cells ) , but also small groups of the long narrow cells which cover the primary bundles .
In the cauterized frog 's cornea , examined in blood-serum after twelve hours ' inflammation , portions of the primary bundles are found lying loose on the surface .
These detached portions have a nearly constant length , a uniform breadth , sharply defined even borders , are sometimes puckered transversely , occasionally show a faint appearance of longitudinal fibrillation , and are sometimes cut transversely , at one or more points , by straight hyaline lines .
They resemble accurately the primary bundles of the neurilemma of the sciatic nerve and the rods of the retina of the healthy frog .
They stain deeply in gold preparations , and are then always puckered transversely .
In gold preparations of the inflamed frog 's tongue , isolated primary bundles , identical in appearance and breadth with those of the inflamed cornea , are to be found .
The depth of staining by gold shows that the constituent elements of the primary bundles undergo a chemical change in inflammation .
The author has studied , by means of chloride of gold , the effects of inflammation in the quadrangular and in the long flat cells which cover the bundles in the interior of the cornea , but chiefly in frog-corneas sealed 375 .
] Inflammation of Connective Tissue .
311 p in blood-serum , the latter method being found more certain to give ailable preparations .
The only appearance observed , anterior to a complete destruction of ie cell , was a division of the nucleus into two or more parts .
In \gt ; rum preparations the products of the division assumed the form of reles of highly refractive particles .
Similar particles were sparsely .attered in the substance of the cell .
The area of any one circular product of this division was always much nailer than that of the undivided nucleus .
In regard to the stellate cells , the author questions the correctness of ie accepted theory , which implies an identity of the cell and its proasses with the visible protoplasm .
He considers that the refractive articles , which constitute what is visible in the cellular protoplasm , are ispended in a fluid , similarly to the pigment-granules in the pigment-alls as described by Mr. Lister .
The phenomenon described by Herman ivestigators as " Zusammenballen " of the cell-processes , he attributes a a collection of the protoplasmic particles in the centre of the cell , Lmilar to that which takes place in concentration of pigment .
This pinion is borne out by a comparison of gold and osmic-acid prepara-ions .
In conditions in which , by the former process , an isolated glo-ular body is seen , osmic-acid preparations show that the anastomosis of he thread-like processes remains complete .
Reasoning analogically from he results obtained by gold in other tissues , he infers that it is what nay be described as the contents of the cell and processes which stain by bat method .
Treatment by osmic acid is the only reliable method by which he has btained satisfactory preparations showing the stellate cells in the in-lamed cornea .
The advantages of this mode of treatment are much nhanced by subsequent staining with red aniline , which especially differ-ntiates the protoplasm and processes .
Subsequent staining by hsema-oxylin renders the nucjei visible .
The only change , except that of destructive disintegration , observed by he author as a consequence of inflammation in the stellate cells , consists n the anastomosing processes being , in gold preparations , occasionally '\#169 ; presented by fine darkly stained lines , on which are a series of small globular swellings placed at short regular intervals , giving any one process an appearance identical with that presented by an ultimate nerve-abrilla in a gold preparation .
The same appearance is also to be seen in osmic-acid preparations , and is suggestive of points of communication between the lumen of the process and the interfibrillary space .
( This is the only form in which the author has seen the processes of the stellate eells in inflamed come\#174 ; in gold preparations .
They are usually invisible by that process .
) Appearances indicative of a dividing nucleus were rarely seen , and their interpretation is doubtful .
Both in respect to the nucleus and the 312 Dr. G. Thin on Traumatic [ Mar 1 ] processes the stellate cells are the most stable of all the cellular element of the cornea .
Between the layers of the superficial corneal epithelium a network c stellate cells can be seen in serum preparations of inflamed cornea .
Ini cations of similar cells can be seen in gold and hsematoxylin prepara tions of the healthy cornea .
In inflammation the cells of this network show a very great increase in size as compared with their appearance in health .
The changes produced by inflammation in the spindle cells may b divided into three stages :\#151 ; ( a ) Preparations examined in serum show that the cell-protoplasn has become increased in amount , and that the cell-processes can b distinctly traced .
This stage can be observed after twelve hours ' inflam mation , resulting from slight cauterization in a winter frog .
The swelling of the protoplasm is often confined to one or more tracts of the cornea one of the above-mentioned clefts separating the area of this appearano from that , of the normal cornea .
The area extends from the neighbour hood of the cauterized part towards the limbus .
( b ) The swelling of the protoplasm extends along the processes from one cell to the other , a chain of spindle cells being often represented b a long column of protoplasm on which there are very slight constrictions This description applies to osmic-acid preparations .
Deep staining wit !
red aniline and subsequent treatment with acetic acid renders the nucle visible in this protoplasmic column .
This stage is well seen in osmic-acic preparations of a rabbit 's cornea which has been hours inflamed bj the passing of a thread .
( c ) With more or less increase in the amount of protoplasm , and with or without its presence in the processes in a granular form , nucleai bodies ( resulting from a division of the nucleus ) are seen in osmic-acid preparations to be contained in , or partly expelled from , the cell , which are identical in appearance with the red blood-corpuscles seen in the new vessels in the same preparations .
This identity in appearance if further maintained by staining osmic-acid preparations with red aniline , in which the nuclear products and red blood-corpuscles are stained a like tint and deeper than the other elements .
The author infers from these appearances that in inflammation the nuclei become free bodies , which are equivalent to red blood-corpuscles .
The appearances described by Key and Wallis , Cohnheim , and others as white corpuscles in " Spindelform , " are seen in osmic-acid preparations to be spindle cells made more prominent by inflammation .
The " spiessartige Figuren " seen in gold preparations are produced by the protoplasm which immediately surrounds the nuclei of the spindle cells being visible , whilst from the mode of preparation the connecting processes are invisible .
White blood-cells in the inflamed cornea can be identified with most 1875 .
] Inflammation of Connective Tissue .
ertainty in osmic-acid preparations .
They are found in groups in the tider spaces , in rows in the nerve-channels and between the primary rundles ( corneal tubes of Bowman ) , and in large numbers in the tracts ietween the larger bundles .
They are mostly round , sometimes club-haped , rnever pointed at two extremities as an elongated shuttle-shaped nass ( that is , never spindelformig , A small minority consist of a double body formed by two rounded globular masses joined by , smooth isthmus .
When stained by hsematoxylin , nuclei are found in dther end , but not in the isthmus .
The author infers that we have here t corpuscle in process of division .
In rabbit-cornese , in which inflammation has lasted about a week , some white corpuscles are seen with uneven contour ; and bulging outwards from , or lying close beside , them are bodies evidently nuclear , and which ire affected by osmic acid and subsequent staining with red aniline , in a manner identical with the red blood-corpuscles seen in blood-vessels in bhe same preparation .
The identity of the escaped nuclei with red blood-jorpuscles is shown by a comparison of their respective size , evenness , colour , and contour .
The author infers a production of red blood-corpuscles in inflammation from the nuclei of the white blood-cells .
In observations on human blood , and that of the mouse , by staining with hsematoxylin , he has found that while the great majority of the red corpuscles do not quickly stain in a weak solution , there are some which at once stain a deep blue , and that there are white corpuscles in which a narrow protoplasmic margin encloses a deep blue nucleus similar in contour and size to the stained red corpuscles .
Amongst the red corpuscles of the frog are a minority which are recognized as being red corpuscles by their size , smooth contour , and absence of granulation , but in which there is no haemoglobin , and the nucleus quickly stains blue in solution of haematoxylin , like that of the white cells .
Transitions occur in which a less and less capacity of staining on the part of the nucleus takes place , pari passu with an increase in the colour characteristic of haemoglobin in the body of the cell .
In the fully developed red corpuscle , the nucleus stains only after it has been for some time in contact with a weak solution of haematoxylin .
The author has observed in the blood of the mouse foetus the nuclei of the nucleated red blood-cell escape from the larger cell , and then become indistinguishable in form and appearance from the small red corpuscles of the mature animal present in the blood under examination .
These observations , taken in connexion with the bodies that are formed in the spindle cells and white corpuscles in inflammation , support , as the author believes , , the doctrine of Wharton Jones , in regard to the formation of the red blood-corpuscles .
The mode of formation of capillary blood-vessels he believes to be identical in inflamed and in foetal tissue .
In studying this subject he 314 Vice-Admiral E. Ommanney [ Mar. H has found special advantages from the use of osmic acid , with or without subsequent staining in hsematoxylin .
The stages in this formation an as follows:\#151 ; ( ?
) The spindle cells enlarge and contain several nuclei which can be identified , whilst within the cell , as being of a similar nature to r6d blood-corpuscles .
A current of blood-plasma from the nearest vessels passes , at the same time , into the interfibrillary space in which the spindle cells lie , ( ?
) The nuclei escape from the spindle cells into this space , where they are indistinguishable in appearance from the ordinary red blood-corpuscles .
( c ) By a process of diapedesis the formed elements of the nearest blood-vessels pass into this space and the circulation is established .
Various appearances lead the author to suppose that the fibrine of the plasma solidifies on the outer surface of the current and forms the substratum of the new vessel , and on this substratum the white blood-corpuscles fix themselves and spread out as an epithelium .
From interfibrillary spaces in .
the inflamed cornea , in which formation of blood-vessels was actively taking place , the author has isolated white corpuscles in various transition stages towards the appearance and shape of epithelium ; and , from rapidly enlarging vessels , cells which , from their form , he believes to be transitionary to that of smooth muscular fibre .
As the new capillary forms , the enlarged spindle cells decrease to their ordinary size .
In preparations of blood-serum of the frog sealed up , after a few days , the haemoglobin may be observed to assume special forms inside the corpuscle , or to disappear from it , and so produce changes in the appearance of the corpuscle identical with those described by Arnold as taking place in the tongue of the living animal after diapedesis .
The above observations were made chiefly on the cornea of the frog and rabbit ; and the inflammation was mostly produced by solid nitrate of silver , the passing of a thread , and the application of methylated alcohol .
In the winter frog ( liana esculenta ) , cauterized in the centre of the cornea , the first entry of white corpuscles attributable to inflammation was observed , after 48 hours , in the wider spaces near the limbus .
After 4 days , they could be observed in considerable numbers , and 2-6 could be seen in one so-called space ( lacuna ) .
II .
" Report on Observations of the Transit of Venus made at Luxor , Upper Egypt , 9th December , 1874 .
" " By Vice-Admiral E. Ommanney , C.B. , F.R.S. Received February 11/ 1875 .
Owing to the kindness of Professor Auwers , of Berlin , who placed his heliometer at my service , I was enabled to make the following notes of time and phenomena during the time of egress#

