388 Messrs. W. Spottiswoode and J. F. Moulton .
[ June 16 IX .
" On Stratified Discharges .
VII .
Multiple Radiations from the Negative Terminal .
" By William Spottiswoode P.R.S. , and J. Fletcher Moulton , F.R.S. Receive !
June 16 , 1881 .
In our memoirs " On the Sensitive State of Vacuum Discharges " we have often alluded to , and even insisted on , the importance of the remarkable dissymmetry which manifests itself in electrical discharges in gases at low pressures .
As the pressure is lowered this dissymmetry becomes more and more marked ; the strise themselves become individually unsymmetrical , and recede one by one into the positive terminal ; the features which are associated with the negative increase in importance , until at last they occupy almost the entire area of the tube .
The researches of De La Rue , Crookes , Goldstein , and others , have intended to increase the interest which attaches to the action which takes place at the negative terminal .
And it is with a view of adding one more contribution to the interpretation of the phenomena of the negative discharge and the analysis of its nature and modus operandithat the present experiments are described .
On examining the image of a negative terminal as traced out in tubes of great exhaustion , by the phosphorescence due to Crookes ' radiations , we have often noticed that the image was not a simple figure , but that more than one outline of the contour of the terminal might be traced .
From the fact of the double contour having been first remarked , where the terminal was of a conical form , it was at first supposed that the second image might be due to internal reflexion , or to some property appertaining to the edge of the cone .
But this supposition led to no satisfactory explanation of the phenomenon .
It was , however , thought that , inasmuch as the two images implied different systems of radiation , a magnet , suitably disposed , might affect them in different degrees , and thereby throw some light on their origin .
For this purpose we used a large electro-magnet with its coils so coupled up as to give the two poles similar polarity .
By bringing the two poles together , inclined at a moderate angle , a single pole and a field of great magnetic strength was produced .
The tube was then placed in the plane containing the axis of the two poles , and in the direction of a line bisecting their directions .
The tubes first used were of great exhaustion , and were placed sometimes with the positive , sometimes with the negative terminal towards the magnet .
When the tube was placed in a comparatively weak part of the field , the two images of the cone were seen in their ijsual positions relatively to each other , except that they were slightly more separated .
But as the tube was brought gradually into a stronger part of the field , the two images became further separated , and by 1881.J On Stratified Discharges .
389 degrees a third , a fourth , and even more images were brought out on the side of the tube .
In one tube of very high exhaustion , for which we are indebted to Mr. Crookes , as many as eight images became visible .
The phenomena here described having been once clearly seen in tubes of high exhaustion , with conical terminals , and under the influence of a very powerful magnet , were afterwards distinguished in other tubes of less exhaustion , with other forms of terminal , and in a less powerful magnetic field .
In the absence of a magnet , the lines of radiation are approximately ( though not exactly ) normal to the surface of the negative terminal for all the images ; and in a magnetic field their tendency is to follow the lines of magnetic force which pass through the point of issue from that surface .
The effect of the magnet , therefore , whether the positive or the negative terminal of the tube is presented to the pole , is to direct the lines of radiation more nearly along these lines of force than they would be without its action ; and since lines of weaker radiation would be more affected than lines of stronger radiation it follows that different images , formed by lines of different strength ( or velocity of discharge ) would be separated from one another by the magnet .
A similar result would follow if they differed in other respects in their normal condition .
We have then , as an experimental fact , a series of images , each formed by a system of rays issuing from the surface of the negative terminal .
The images being distinct , the system of rays must be distinct also .
Now , as it seems hardly possible to imagine that , from every point of a surface , there can issue at one and the same instant of time a variety of systems of radiations , each system ranging over a finite angular distance , and each differently directed in space , we are driven to the conclusion that these radiations must have issued successively and not simultaneously from the terminal .
In other words , the various images are formed in succession .
Now , the entire series of images are present whenever a discharge passes through the tube ; and when a " continuous " discharge ( such as that from a Holtz machine ) is passing , they are all as steady and as persistent as are any other features of the disdharge .
From this it follows that the radiations are not a continuous phenomenon , but that they are composed of a recurrent series of discharges , each having its own angular range , and its own direction in space ; and as the electricity , which is the motive power , and the metallic terminal , which is the directing machinery , are the same in kind for each image , we are led to the conclusion that the positions of the images are determined by the force with which the radiations are projected .
In fact , we understand that the various images are due to a succession of discrete discharges of successively diminishing strength .
390 On Stratified Discharges .
[ June 1$ The phenomenon of multiple images of the negative terminal as explained above has an important bearing on the nature of electrical discharges in vacuum tubes .
For , if the phosphorising radiation consists of a recurring series of discrete discharges , the radiation in each series , and a fortiori the radiation as a whole , is discontinuous ; and consequently the electrical discharge , to which it is due , must itself be discontinuous or " disruptive .
" We appear , therefore , in these phenomena to have an experimental proof , independent of and in addition to those adduced by Mr. De La Rue and others , of a fundamental point in the theory of these discharges , namely , their disruptive character .
The conclusion , that each main discharge consists of a series of minor discharges , has an interest as throwing light on a difficulty that may perhaps have been felt in respect of one of the conclusions in our second memoir .
It was there shown that when the exhaustion was carried to a great degree of perfection , the negative part of the discharge showed signs of a " durational characterand the difficulty consists in associating the character of duration with that of disruptiveness , as attributed to one and the same discharge .
But if the explanation of the multiple images here suggested be correct , it may be possible to reconcile the two ideas by considering that the duration is to be understood not as implying a continuous process , but as measuring the interval from the commencement of each main discharge until the last of the series of minor discharges belonging to it .
This idea of rapidly recurring elemental discharges going to form a single discharge is very similar to the state of things which one of the authors of the present paper showed to take place in the case of a discharge from a coil .
( See " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 25 , p. 73 .
) The revolving mirror showed that each discharge from the coil , though apparently single , and , if not instantaneous , at least continuous during the time it lasted , was , in fact , made up of a regular series of elemental discharges , each group of such discharges ( constituting a single coil discharge ) being composed of like elements .
The phenomena above described go to show that even the so-called continuous discharge is made up of very rapidly recurring discharges , each of which is in its turn composed of a group of elemental discharges , the successive members of which bear definite relations to each other .

