Surface Tension as a Factor Controlling Cell Metabolism .
By W. Cramer .
( Communicated by Sir Edward Schafer , F.R.S. Received March 17 , 1915 .
) Although it is known that many chemical processes taking place within the cell are due to the actions of ferments , and although we can in many cases separate these ferments from living protoplasm and study their action vitro , there still remain considerable discrepancies between the processes as we see them occur in vivo and as we study them vitro .
One of the most characteristic features of the processes taking place within the living cell is what , for want of a better term , may be called their " adaptability , " that is the delicate sensitiveness with which they respond to very slight changes in the surrounding medium by being retarded , accelerated , or reversed .
It is known , of course , that the action of ferments is influenced by changes in temperature or in the alkalinity or acidity of the surrounding medium .
But in the case of the living cell these factors remain practically constant , so that their influence can be excluded .
We know , too , that many reactions brought about by the action of ferments are reversible , and that the direction in which the ferments act depends upon the concentration of the various substances entering into the reaction .
But here again these differences are of an order of magnitude far greater than the variations which exist in the living organism .
It is noteworthy , too , that the equilibrium of a reaction brought about by a ferment separated from living protoplasm lies almost always near the point of complete hydrolysis , and contrasts in that respect markedly with the behaviour of the same ferment when its reaction is studied in the living cell , where the reverse process may be found to occur or where very minute changes in the surrounding medium are sufficient to transfer the point of equilibrium from hydrolysis to synthesis .
If we take the liver cell as an example we find that the living cell can , with equal readiness , transform glycogen into glucose and glucose into glycogen .
If the liver is removed from the body a marked glycogenolysis occurs , so that a marked amount of sugar is formed , while the power to synthesise glycogen appears to be almost completely inhibited .
In other words , the equilibrium point lies now near the point of complete hydrolysis .
The same takes place if an extract of the liver is allowed to act on glycogen or on glucose in the concentrations found in the blood .
It is known that the formation of glycogen in vivo occurs when the percentage of blood-sugar is Surface Tension as a Factor Controlling Cell Metabolism .
585 relatively high , and the reverse process when the blood-sngar concentration falls .
But the differences in the concentration of the blood-sugar which accompany these processes are too slight to be an adequate explanation in themselves , especially if we compare them with the large difference of concentration necessary to effect the reversal of a ferment action vitro .
Moreover , when the liver is removed from the body the formation of such a large amount of sugar takes place that the hydrolysis of glycogen should be inhibited if the concentration of the sugar was the main factor .
Nevertheless the glycogen under these conditions completely disappears .
The disappearance of glycogen from the liver in the living animal as the result of " sugar puncture " or under the influence of the thyroid hormone cannot be satisfactorily explained on the ground of changes in concentrations of the reacting substances .
In order to explain the predominance vivo of the synthetic power of ferments which in vitro act almost entirely as hydrolytic agents , the assumption has been made that in vivo the products of synthetic action by a ferment are withdrawn , as they are formed , from the sphere of action , so that the equilibrium is always being disturbed in favour of the synthetic process .
If we take the liver again as an example , we find that with the ferment acting in vitro the equilibrium point lies near the point of complete hydrolysis .
That means that a very small amount of glycogen can be synthesised by the ferment , even in vitro .
But since the glycogen thus formed remains in solution the reaction stops when once this point of equilibrium is reached .
In the cell the slight amount of glycogen synthesised by the ferment is deposited in an insoluble form as it is formed .
The equilibrium is thus disturbed and another slight amount of glycogen is formed .
In other cases it is assumed that the product of synthesis is removed by diffusion or excretion or carried away by the tissue fluids .
Now this consideration may account for the fact that ferments which show only a slight synthetic power in vitro have a marked synthetic action .
It is doubtful whether this explanation can be applied in every case .
It certainly does not explain the " adaptability " of the cell , the readiness with which the cell metabolism responds to slight changes in the environment .
It does not explain , for instance , the ease with which the liver cell regulates its glycogenic function in the one or other direction , why a difference of less than 01 per cent , in the concentration of the blood-sugar determines whether synthesis or hydrolysis of glycogen is to take place , or why the " piquure " and the thyroid hormone produce a " mobilisation " of glycogen .
It is clear , therefore , - that there are factors conditioning the actions of ferments within the cell which do not come into play when we study the Mr. W. Cramer .
Surface Tension as a actions of these ferments in vitro under the usual conditions , and which have therefore escaped observation .
If one compares the conditions under which chemical processes proceed in vivo with the experimental conditions under which the same processes are usually studied in vitro , one finds as the most obvious difference that in the latter case the influence of surface energy is reduced to a minimum , while in the former it is developed to a maximum .
vivo there are interfaces between cytoplasm and the surrounding medium , cytoplasm and nucleus , cytoplasm and deposits in the cytoplasm , besides the interfaces presented by the various colloids constituting the cytoplasm .
In the conditions usually obtaining in experiments in vitro all these sources of surface energy are nonexistent ; only the colloidal nature of ferment or substrate may give rise to surface-tension effects , as they do , of course , also within the cell.* The question is therefore whether surface-tension effects ( apart from those possibly caused by the colloidal nature of ferment or substrate ) are factors conditioning the action of ferments .
It was found that when this factor of surface tension was introduced by allowing the reaction to proceed in a test-tube filled with glass beads or in a capillary glass tube , so that the surface was increased , the action of invertase , diastase , and lipase was distinctly retarded .
A detailed account of the results observed with invertase is given in the preceding paper .
Further analysis of the phenomenon showed that the two phases which can be distinguished in the action of a ferment are probably both subject to the influence of surface tension , firstly the combination of substrate and ferment , and secondly the chemical reaction which takes place in the substrate and in which the ferment acts as a catalyst .
While these observations establish the principle that ferment action is conditioned by surface tension , they can only give a faint and incomplete idea of the degree to which this factor controls the action of ferments within the cell .
For , compared with the immense development of surface which obtains in the living cell and the living organism , the increase in surface energy produced by the presence of glass beads in the mixture of ferment and substrate is very small .
It must also be borne in mind that the experimental conditions deal with surface tension between glass and a watery solution , while in vivo surface-tension effects are produced between colloidal solutions of different composition , membranes , colloids in the form of gels , and so forth .
Lastly , the effect of surface tension may vary with the nature of the ferment , of the substrate and of the products of ferment action , according to the " surface activity " of these substances , i.e. their property to lower surface tension .
Factor Controlling Cell .
The first general conclusion which may be drawn from these considerations is that the great surface development in the cell or the organism produces conditions which markedly affect the action of ferments when compared with their action in vitro .
We may now consider in some detail in what way this surface development exercises its effect with regard to the metabolism of the cell .
We find then , firstly , that different parts of the cell present different conditions for the action of ferments .
Surface tension is operative at the periphery of the cell , at the interface between cell and the surrounding medium .
There the conditions for ferment action will differ from the conditions presented by the interior of the cell .
But even in the interior of the cell , conditions in the protoplasm surrounding the nucleus , vacuoles , granules , etc. , will differ from those presented by the rest of the cytoplasm .
We must then conclude that ferment action will not proceed evenly throughout the cell .
It may be retarded or inhibited in one part of the cell , while it is proceeding actively in another .
Whether it can even be reversed as the result of surface tension is not yet clear from the experimental evidence before us .
In this connection reference may be made to the work of Warburg , who has demonstrated that the oxidative processes in the cell are dependent on the structural parts of the cell and not on the fluid cell contents .
We have hitherto assumed , for the sake of simplicity , that the surface tension of protoplasm is constant .
But we know that it is always changing as the result of chemical processes leading to the formation or disappearance of surface-active substances .
In cells with free surfaces , such as unicellular organisms for instance , these fluctuations in surface tension result in the decrease or increase of surface : they become manifest in the form of movement .
Amoeboid movement and ciliary movement have long been recognised as surface-tension effects .
The existence of such changes in different physiological conditions of a unicellular organism has also been demonstrated recently by MacCallum , by a micro-chemical study of the distribution of potassium salts within the cell .
Similar changes must occur also in cells aggregated in cell masses or organs .
But here , where the surfaces are not free , and possibly less elastic , and where the cell cannot extend or diminish its surface except to a limited extent , the result is , not movement , but alterations in the concentration and composition of the substances constituting the surface layer of the cell , and this leads to further alterations of the cell metabolism .
Thus surface tension .conditions cell metabolism , and is , in turn , also conditioned by the metabolism of the cell .
Chemical changes within the cytoplasm may lead to the formation or disappearance of surface-active substances VOL. LXXXV1II.\#151 ; B. 2 Z Mr. W. Cramer .
Surface Tension as a or to variations in their concentrations .
And it may be pointed out here that surface tension is affected by very slight quantities or changes in concentration of surface-active substances , particularly when the initial concentration is low .
Or interfaces may be formed , or disappear , as the result of chemical changes , or become extended or shortened , and thus affect again chemical changes , just as in the experiments with invertase the reaction was influenced by extending the surface " glass " through the watery solution .
We thus get a conception how the cell regulates and controls its metabolism , how a chemical change may accelerate or retard other chemical processes which may have no chemical relation to it and which in vitro would remain unaffected by it .
It is thus possible to explain the chemical organisation of the cell without having to postulate , as has hitherto been done ( Hofmeister , Hans Meyer ) , the existence of hypothetical membranes in the cytoplasm which are supposed to separate the different chemical systems .
The validity of this conception of surface tension and surface energy as factors controlling cell metabolism is capable of being tested experimentally .
For , according to this idea , substances which do not affect the protoplasm chemically ( that is to say are neither bases nor acids , neither reducing nor oxidising agents , etc. ) , but which are strongly surface active , should markedly affect the metabolism of the cell .
That is actually the case .
The condition of narcosis in which the metabolism of the cell is profoundly affected is brought about by substances which fulfil these postulates .
They do not affect the protoplasm chemically and they are all strongly surface-active ; there is even direct evidence that these substances influence the action of cell ferments .
For Chiari has shown that in the excised liver of anaesthetised animals the process of autolysis proceeds more rapidly than in the liver of normal animals .
And Guignard has demonstrated that the effect of anaesthetics on laurel leaves is to release the action of ferments , as evidenced by the production of hydrocyanic acid.* * In order to avoid misunderstandings , it may be pointed out here that these substances , in addition , must be capable of penetrating into the cell .
They do so by virtue of their solubility in lipoids , according to the Meyer-Overton theory , or by virtue of their " Haftdruck , " according to J. Traube .
These theories of narcosis enable us to understand quantitative differences in the strength of different narcotics or in their action on different tissues .
But they do not enable us to understand how they act upon cell metabolism in such a way as to bring about the state of narcosis when they have penetrated into the cell , and it is this question which is being considered in this paper .
Hans Meyer himself recognised this , and put forward as a further explanation the assumption that narcotics soften the hypothetical lipoid membranes which surround each molecule of ferment and substrate and keep them apart under normal conditions .
Others ( Hober , Mansfeld , Giirber ) have put forward different hypotheses to explain the state of narcosis .
Factor Controlling Cell Metabolism .
589 We arrive at a similar confirmation of the relation of surface-active substances to cell metabolism , when we examine the substances which , as Loeb has shown , affect the metabolism of unfertilised eggs in such a way that they either produce cytolysis or , under certain conditions , incite artificial parthenogenesis .
The substances which belong to this group\#151 ; narcotics , saponin , soap , bile salts\#151 ; are all substances which are strongly surface active .

