3 .
Is a verification , founded on a particular choice of co-ordinates , of the construction in question .
§ 4 .
In this section , referring the surface of the second order to absolutely general co-ordinates , and after an incidental solution of the problem to determine a section touching three given sections , the author obtains the equations for the solution of Steiner 's extension of Malfatti 's problem .
§ 5 .
Contains a separate discussion of a system of equations , including as a particular case the equations obtained in the preceding section .
§§ 6 &amp; 7 .
Contain the application of the formulae for the general system to the equations in § 4 , and the development and completion of the solution .
§ 8 .
Is an extension of some preceding formulae to quadratic functions of any number of variables .
3 .
" On the Tides , Bed and Coasts of the North Sea or German Ocean .
" By John Murray , Esq. Communicated by George Rennie , Esq. , F.R.S. Received March 20 , 1852 .
The author commences his paper by remarking that great similarity of outline pervades the western shores of Ireland , Scotland and Norway , and then observes that the great Atlantic flood-tide wave , having traversed the shores of the former countries , strikes with great fury the Norwegian coast between the Lafoden Isles and Stadland , one portion proceeding to the north , while the other is deflected to the south , which last has scooped out along the coast , as far as the Sleeve at the mouth of the Baltic , a long channel from 100 to 200 fathoms in depth , almost close in shore , and varying from 50 to 100 miles in width .
After describing his method of contouring and colouring the Admiralty chart of the Nortii Sea , he traces the course of the tide-wave among the Orkney and Shetland Islands along the eastern shores of Scotland and England to the Straits of Dover , and along the western shores of Norway , Denmark and the Netherlands , to the:same toint .
VIe ; then remarks that the detritus arising from the continued wasting away of nearly the whole line of the eastern coasts of Scotland and England , caused by the action of the flood-tide , iss carried by it , and at the present day finds a resting-place in the North Sea ; and that this filling process is increased by the sand , shingle , and other matter brought through the Straits of Dover by the other branch of the Atlantic flood-tide .
Hence , he remarks , the gradual shoaling of this sea , and the formation of its numerous sand-banks ; the silting up the mouths of the Rhine , the Meuse , and the Scheldt ; the formation of the numerous islandst on the coast of Holland , that country itself , and much of Belgium ; the deposits at the mouth of the Baltic , the islands in the Cattegat , and indeed the whole country of Sleswig , Denmark and Jutland .
The author then takes a view of the tides , and their effects upon the Baltic and its shores before the course of the tide-wave was checked by these shoals and low lands .
He considers that , previous to these great changes , the flood-tide entering the North Sea between Norway and Scotland , would make 'directly tpwards the German coast , and necessarily heap up the waters in the Baltic considerably above their present level , and that a great part of Finland , Russia , and Prussia bordering upon that sea , would thus every twelve hours be under water , in the same way as the waters now rise in the Bay of Fundy , at Chepstow , and other places , much above their ordinary level in the open sea ; that the current outward , on the receding of the tide which these accumulated ' waters would occasion , combined with the rivers which fall into the Baltic , when checked by the ' following flood-tide , would cause deposits in the form of a bar tailing ' towards Sweden ; and that an increase to these deposits would form shoals , drifts and islands , arid eventually a long sandbank in outline , like the country of Denmark .
Hie further considers that the tide being by these means prevented from entering the Baltic , may account for the subsidence of the waters of the Gulf of Bothnia better than can -te upheaval of the northern part of Scandinavia .
The author then remarks that the great shoal of the North Sea is the Dogger Bank , and that its peculiar form is produced by the meeting of the cotidal waves , of which he traces the course .
After bearing testimony to the value of the Admiralty chart of the southern portion of the North Sea , made under the direction of the late Captain Hewitt , he reverts to the importance of contouring such maps , in order to obtain something like a correct notion of the bottom of the sea ; and in conclusion expresses a hope that the Admiralty will be induced to continue the survey of the North Sea , so well begun by Captain Hewitt .

