39 1888.1 On a Silico-organic Compound of a new Type .
So far , cases were only dealt with in which silicon tetrabromide combined with nitrogenised groups without loss of its halogen .
^ The next stage of the inquiry involved the investigation of certain interactions in which the tetrabromide loses all its halogen .
One of the chief results obtained in that direction forms the subject of a separate communication which accompanies this Report .
III .
" Preliminary Note on a Silico-organic Compound of a New Type .
" By J. Emerson Reynolds , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , University of Dublin .
Received September 27 , 1888 .
The subject of this note is a fine crystalline substance , and is the first well-defined compound yet known in which we have reason to believe that silicon is in direct and exclusive union with the nitrogen of amidic groups .
Its analysis and mode of formation lead to the conclusion that it is silicotetraplienyl , NHC6H6 a.^NHC6H5 x^NHCfiH5 ' ^NHC6H6 This body is produced when silicon tetrabromide ( or the tetrachloride ) is added to excess of aniline , diluted with three or four volumes of benzene .
Aniline hydrobromate ( or hydrochlorate ) is a secondary product of interaction and separates , being insoluble in benzene .
If aniline be in excess throughout the operation , the whole of the halogen precipitates as aniline salt , and there remains in solution impure silicotetrapbenylamide .
If aniline be not in excess , a bromo-compound is obtained analogous to Harden 's rather ill* defined chlorinated product .
Distillation from a water-bath readily removes benzene from the solution , and a liquid remains -which solidifies after some time to a yellowish mass .
The latter dissolves in warm carbon disulphide leaving a residue containing some thiocarbanilide , and cautious evaporation of the solution leads to the separation of magnificent crystals of the silicon compound .
These form chiefly at the surface of the liquid , as they are specifically lighter than the solution .
When twice recrystallised from carbon disulphide , the substance is obtained in a state of purity.* * A large quantity was prepared in June last , and about 50 grams of the pure compound were exhibited on September 11th , in Section B , during the meeting of the British Association at Bath .
40 Prof. J. A. Ewing .
[ Nov. 22 , The crystals of silicotetraphenylamide are perfectly colourless short prisms of considerable size .
They melt at 136\#151 ; 137 ' to a transparent liquid , which can be heated to 210 ' without decomposition .
On cooling this liquid solidifies to a transparent glass which , like the original crystals , can be easily decomposed by water .
If silicotetraphenylamide be heated under diminished pressure ( about 80 mm. ) , it affords a distillate of aniline , and leaves a residue which seems to be the silicon analogue of ccirbodipJienyliinide .
but the latter has not yet been completely analysed .
The detailed investigation of the new substance and its derivatives is in active progress , and promises to throw light on the hitherto obscure relations of silicon and nitrogen .
I have reason to believe that the homologues of aniline , and certain other analogous nitrogen compounds , act like excess of aniline on the silicon haloids , and produce substances similar to the subject of this note .
These reactions are also being investigated in my laboratory .
IV .
" On the Magnetisation of Iron and other Magnetic Metals in very strong Fields .
" By J. A. Ewing , B.Sc. , F.R.S. , Professor of Engineering in University College , Dundee , and William Low .
Received October 29 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) Early in 1887 the authors communicated to the Royal Society the results of experiments made by subjecting iron to strong magnetic force by placing the sample , in the form of a bobbin with a short narrow neck and conical ends , between the pole-pieces of an electromagnet .
The experiments have been continued and extended by using much stronger magnetic forces and by testing samples of nickel , cobalt , and various steels , as well as wrought iron and cast iron .
The large magnet of the Edinburgh University Laboratory , kindly lent by Professor Tait , was used throughout the experiments , and allowed the authors to effect a high concentration of the magnetic force by using bobbins the necks of which had a cross-sectional area of ( in some cases ) only y-g3^ of the cross-sectional area of the magnet cores .
By this means the induction was raised to the following extreme values:\#151 ; In wrought iron ... ... ... ... ... . .
45,350 c.g.s. " cast iron ... ... ... ... ... ... .
31,760 " " Bessemer steel ... ... ... ... ... .
39,880 " " Vickers ' tool steel ... ... ... 35,820 " " Hadfield 's manganese steel ... .
14,790 , , " nickel ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 21,070 " " cobalt ... ... ... , ... ... ... . .
30,210 "

