4 On the Palaeozoic Seed , Lagenostoma Lomaxi .
[ Dec. 15 , " On the Structure of the Palaeozoic Seed , Lagenostoma Lomaxi , with a Statement of the Evidence upon which it is referred to LyginodendronS By Professor F. W. Oliver and Dr. D. H. Scott , E.K.S. Received December 15 , 1903 , \#151 ; Read January 21 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The present communication deals with the structure of Lagenostoma Lomaxi , a fossil seed from the lower coal-measures , and with the evidence upon which the authors refer it to the well-known carboniferous plant , Lyginodendron .
It is found that this species of Lagenostoma , especially in its young form , was inclosed in a husk or cupule , borne on a short pedicel .
The seed , which is of Cycadean character , is fully described , and its relation to other fossil and recent seeds discussed .
The cupule inclosing the seed was borne terminally on a pedicel ; it formed a continuous , ribbed cup below , and divided above into a number of lobes or segments .
Externally , both pedicel and cupule were studded with numerous prominent multicellular glands of capitate form .
The anatomy indicates that the whole organ was of a foliar nature , A comparison with the vegetative organs of Lyginodendron Oldhamium , with which the seeds are intimately associated , demonstrates a complete agreement in the structure of the glands and in the anatomy of the vascular system .
Where vegetative and reproductive organs , presenting identical structural features , not known to occur in other plants , are thus found in close and constant association , the inference that the one belonged to the other appears irresistible .
As regards the position of the seed on the plant , two possibilities are discussed : the cupule , with its pedicel , may either represent an entire sporophyll , or a modified pinnule of a compound leaf .
Either view is tenable , but various comparative considerations lend a somewhat greater probability to the second alternative .
In the concluding section of the paper , the systematic position of Lyginodendron is discussed .
On the whole of the evidence , the position of the genus as a member of a group of plants transitional between Filicales and Gymnosperms appears to be definitely established .
While many Eilicinean characters are retained , the plant , in the organisation of its seed , had fully attained the level of a Palaeozoic Gymnosperm .
There are many indications that other genera , now grouped under Cycadofilices , had likewise become seedbearing plants .
It is proposed to found a distinct class , under the name Pteridospermce , to embrace those Palaeozoic plants with the habit and 1903 .
] Some Experiments in much of the internal organisation of Ferns , which were reproduced by means of seeds .
At present , the families Lyginodendrese and Medullosese may be placed , with little risk of error , in the new class , Pteridospermae .
" Some Experiments in Magnetism .
" By T , C. Porter .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , O.M. , F.R.S. Received November 9 , \#151 ; Read November 26 , 1903 .
[ Plate 1 .
] For many years the writer has , from time to time , been engaged in studying the effect of a powerful magnetic field upon crystals in the act of their formation and growth .
It seemed to him probable that if the molecules of substances have magnetic poles , they might group themselves differently when under the influence of a powerful magnetic field , thus producing an orientation of the crystals , or even an alteration in the form or optical characteristics of the crystals themselves .
It seemed also possible that if the supposed polar properties of the molecules were the result of atomic polarity , a powerful external magnet might produce some appreciable effect in the chemical combination of the atoms , changing the rate of chemical reaction , if it did not change the character of the compounds formed .
Many effects were observed , and were at first erroneously attributed to the influence of magnetism ; later , when , by specially contrived apparatus , the influence of variation in temperature , humidity of the air , and above all of the history and character of the surfaces upon which the crystallisation took place , were investigated , these effects were one after another traced to causes other than magnetic , so that the results must , on the whole , be taken as negative .
Cases of orientation of crystals growing in the magnetic field and watched under the microscope from their first visibility till they had attained considerable size , such cases of orientation were found in two compounds of iron , but even these orientations were found to depend , at any rate in some cases , upon the direction in which the surface of the glass slide had been rubbed before cleaning for the experiment .
The main result of this long , difficult , and expensive research has only been to prove that if there be any such effects as those looked for , they require , to show them , more powerful fields than those of the very powerful electro-magnets used by the writer .
A photograph of the orientation of Marignac 's basic sulphate of ammonium and iron 3Fe203.5(NH4)20.12S03.18HoO is given with this paper .

