III .
' Inquiries into the Phenomena of Respiration .
" By EDWARD SMITH , M.D. , Assistant-Physician to the Hospital for Consumption , Brompton .
Communicated by Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. , P.R.S. Received December 16 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The author gives in this communication the result of numerous inquiries into the quantity of carbonic acid expired , and of air inspired , with the rate of pulsation and respiration , -1st , in the whole of the twenty-four hours , with and without exertion and food ; 2nd , the variations from day to day , and from season to season ; and 3rd , the influence of some kinds of exertion .
After a description of the apparatus employed by previous observers , he describes his own apparatus and method .
This consists of a spirometer to measure the air inspired , capable of registering any number of cubic inches ; and an analytical apparatus to abstract the carbonic acid and vapour from the expired air .
The former is a small dry gas-meter , of improved manufacture , and the latter consists of-lst , a desiccator of sulphuric acid to absorb the vapour ; 2nd , a gutta-percha box , with chambers and cells , containing caustic potash , and offering a superficies of 700 inches , over which the expired air is passed , and by which the carbonic acid is abstracted ; and 3rd , a second desiccator to retain the vapour which the expired air had carried off from the potash box .
A small mask is worn , so as to prevent any air entering the lungs without first passing through the spirometer , and the increase in the weight of this with the connecting tube and the first desiccator gives the amount of vapour exhaled , whilst the addition to the weight of the potash box and the second desiccator gives the weight of the carbonic acid expired .
The balances employed weigh to the l- } , of a grain , with 7 lbs. in the pan .
By this apparatus the whole of the carbonic acid was abstracted during the act of expiration , and the experiment could be repeated every few minutes , or continued for any number of hours , and be made whilst sleeping and with certain kinds of exertion .
The amount of carbonic acid expired in the twenty-four hours was determined by several sets of expeiiments .
Four of these , consisting of eight experiments , were made upon four gentlemen , on the author , Professor Frankland , F.R.S. , Dr. Murie , and Mr. Moul , during the eighteen hours of the working day .
In two of them , the whole of the carbonic acid was collected , and in two others the experiment was made during ten minutes at the commencement of each hour , and of each hour after the meals .
The quantity of carbonic acid varied from an average of 24'274 oz. in the author to 16'43 oz. in Professor Frankland .
The quantity evolved in light sleep was 4'88 and 4'99 grains per minute , and when scarcely awake 5'7 , 5'94 , and 61 grains at different times of the night .
The author estimates the amount in profound sleep at 45 grains per minute ; and the whole evolved in the six hours of the night at 1950 grains .
Hence the total quantity of carbon evolved in the twenty-four hours , at rest , was , in the author , 7 144 oz. The effect of walking at various speeds is then given , with an estimate of the amount of exertion made by different classes of the community , and of the carbon which would be evolved with that exertion .
The author then states the quantity of air inspired in the working day , which varied from 583 cub. in .
per minute in himself to 365 cub. in .
per minute in Professor Frankland ; the rate of respiration , which varied in different seasons as well as in different persons ; the depth of inspiration , from 30 cub. in .
to 39'5 cub. in .
; and the rate of pulsation .
The respirations were to the pulsations as 1 to 4'63 in the youngest , and as 1 to 5172 in the oldest .
One-half the product of the respirations into the pulsations gave nearly the number of cubic inches of air inspired in some of the persons , and the proportion of the carbonic acid to the air inspired varied from as 1 gr. to 54'7 cub. in .
to as 1 gr. to 58 cub. in .
The variations in the carbonic acid evolved in the working day gave an average maximum of 10'43 , and minimum of 6'74 grains per minute .
The quantity increased after a meal and decreased from each meal , so that the minima were nearly the same , and the maxima were the greatest after breakfast and tea .
The effect of a fast of forty hours , with only a breakfast meal , was to reduce the amount of carbonic acid to 75 per cent. of that which was found with food ; to render the quantity nearly uniform throughout the day , with a little increase at the hours when food had usually been taken , and to cause the secretions to become alkaline* .
The variations from day to day were shown to be connected with the relation of waste and supply on the previous day and night , so that with good health , good night 's rest , and sufficient food , the amount of respiration was considerable on the following morning , whilst the reverse occurred with the contrary conditions .
Hence the quantities were usually large on the Monday .
Temperature was an ever-acting cause of variation , and caused a diminution in the carbonic acid as the temperature rose .
The effect of season was to cause a diminution of all the respiratory phenomena as the hot season advanced .
The maximum state was in spring , and the minimum at the end of summer , with periods of decrease in June and of increase in October .
The diminution in the author was 30 per cent. in the quantity of air , 32 per cent. in the rate of respiration , and 17 per cent. in the carbonic acid .
The influence of temperature was considered in relation to season , and it was shown that whilst sudden changes of temperature cause immediate variation in the quantity of carbonic acid , a medium degree of temperature , as of 60 ?
, is accompanied by all the variations in the quantity of carbonic acid , and that there is no relation between any given temperature and quantity of carbonic acid at different seasons .
Whatever was the degree of temperature , the quantity of carbonic acid , and all other phenomena of respiration , fell from the beginning of June to the beginning of September .
The author then described the influence of atmospheric pressure , and stated that neither temperature nor atmospheric pressure accounts for the seasonal changes .
The kinds of exertion which had been investigated were walking and the treadwheel .
Walking at two miles per hour induced an exhalation of 18-1 gr. of carbonic acid per minute , and at three miles per hour of 25'83 grs. ; whilst the effect of the treadwheel at Coldbath Fields Prison was to increase the quantity to 48 grs. per minute .
All these quantities vary with the season , and hence the author recommends the adoption of relative quantities , the comparison being with the state of the system at rest , and apart from the influence of food .
The apparatus and various drawings were exhibited .

