gg The Origin of Mammals .
there may he a single condyle slightly divided or two exoccipital condyles .
There is , on passing from earlier to later types , a steady increase in the size of the dentary and decrease in the size of the other elements of the jaw .
The quadrate also becomes much reduced in the higher types .
In Gorgonopsians and probably all earlier types the arch of the atlas is a pair of bones ; in Cynodonts , as in mammals , there is a single arch .
It is argued that the small Gorgonopsians fed almost exclusively on the comparatively slow-moving , small , herbivorous Anomodonts .
In the Trias the small Anomodonts became very rare , and the carnivorous Therapsids had to feed on other small forms , apparently the more active lizard-like Cotylosaurs , such as Procolophon .
The change of habit resulted in the Cynodontia .
In Upper Triassic times the larger Cynodonts preyed upon the large Anomodont , Kannemeyeria , and carried on their existence so long as these Anomodonts survived , but died out with them about the end of the Trias or in Rhsetic times .
The small Cynodonts , having neither small Anomodonts nor small Cotylosaurs to feed on , were forced to hunt the very active long-limbed Thecodonts .
The greatly increased activity brought about that series of changes which formed the mammals\#151 ; the flexible skin with hair , the four-chambered heart and warm blood , the loose jaw with teeth for mastication , an increased development of tactile sensation and a great increase of cerebrum .
Not improbably the attacks of the newly-evolved Cynodont or mammalian type brought about a corresponding evolution in the Pseudosuchian Thecodonts which ultimately resulted in the formation of Dinosaurs and Birds .
A Case of Abnormal Trichromatic Colour Vision due to a Shift in the Spectrum of the Green-Sensation Curve .
By Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , and W. Watson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. ( Received June 13 , \#151 ; Read June 26 , 1913 .
) [ This paper is published in 1 Proceedings , ' Series A , vol. 89 , No. 610 .
]

