496 Mr. C. B. Clarke .
[ Mar. 12 *re in this case no longer true , but are approximately true only if the height be very small compared with the span .
The correction to the curvature as calculated from the usual formula is found to be a constant .
The paper concludes with an account and a short discussion of the work of Lam4 and Clapeyron , de Saint-Venant , Boussinesq , and , more recently , of M. Mathieu , * M. Ribiere , f and Mr. J. H. Michell , J which bears upon the subject of rectangular beams .
Although , in certain cases , some of the results overlap , the attempt has been made in the paper to co-ordinate them , and to present them in a more complete form , and to develop further the two-dimensional theory , so as to obtain solutions to various interesting questions relating to the effects of isolated loads .
v " Antarctic Origin of the Tribe Schceneae .
" By C. B. Clakke , F.R.S. Received March 12 , \#151 ; Read April 24 , 1902 .
[ Plate 14 .
] The map annexed to this paper is designed to illustrate the geographic distribution of all the species of the Schoenese\#151 ; a sub-ordo or tribus of the Cyperacese .
The result suggests a flow in geologic time of the sub-order from the South Pole up the three great southern prolongations of land , viz. , Oceania , South Africa , Temperate South America ; the number of species dying away rapidly as we recede from the South Pole .
I explain how the map is made .
I take the outline map of the World divided into twenty-three geographic sub-areas , and my MSS .
of the sub-order Schoenese which show the distribution of every species with reference to these twenty- three sub-areas .
The first species is Carpka alpina , R. Br .
, which I see in the MS .
has been collected in the sub-areas 12 , 13 , 14 , 23 .
I put a spot of black paint in each of these four sub-areas , and proceed to the next species .
I have treated 262 species in black dots , two in rings , two in crosses .
The black dots do not signify anything as to the abundance of a species ; nor in Australia and the Cape do they indicate more than that the species has been collected in that sub-area .
But the outlying scattered spots in Central Africa , Japan , Jamaica , \amp ; c. , are placed as accurately as the scale of the map would admit .
* ' Theory de 1'Elasticity , ' Paris , 1890 ; also ' Comptes Rendus , ' vol.90 , pp. 1272 \#151 ; 74 .
t 'Sur Divers Cas de la Elexion des Prisms Rectangles , ' Bordeaux , 1889 ; also ' Comptes Rendus , ' yol .
126 , pp. 402\#151 ; 404 and 1190\#151 ; 92 .
X * Quart .
Journ. Math. , ' vol. 32 .
1902 .
] Antarctic Origin of the Tribe Schcenece .
497 All the material on which the map is founded has been seen and determined by me ; no fact in the distribution is copied out of a list or depends on a name or a distribution number .
The material recorded by number or name of collector in my MSS .
is about 1850 collections .
The great mass of the commoner species , or commoner habitats , is not recorded in my MSS .
, but is virtually included in the map .
The genera included in this sub-order are very close together , and may be arranged on a different system from mine ; this would not affect at all the map , which deals only with species .
I have doubtless made some errors in the specific determinations .
Moreover , any competent man revising the material would have a different opinion from myself as regards some species and varieties .
The# utmost alterations that could thus be necessitated in the map would be two or three black dots more ( or less ) in Australia and the Cape .
The rings represent Schcenus nigricans , Linn. , a cosmopolitan species , and Schcenus ferrugineus , Linn. , a species closely allied to it but confined to the sub-area 1\#151 ; " Cooler Europe .
" [ It is so closely allied as to be sometimes confounded with it by learned cyperologists .
] In an exactly parallel manner , the crosses represent Cladium Jamaicense , Crantz , a cosmopolitan species , and Cladium , Nees , a United States plant so closely allied that some competent cyperologists call it a var .
of C. JcLWAiiceTise .
Five of the genera occur in Oceania and South America ; two occur in South Africa and South America ; five occur in Oceania and the Cape ; but the genera are so closely allied that little , can be inferred from this .
Only two or three species are common to Australia and South America .
Numerical tabulations on a large scale are viewed with suspicion by botanists , as they are often drawn in great part from books or from lists ; the percentage of errors then introduced from wrong identifications , diversities in nomenclature , variable limits assigned to species and areas , and doubtfully wild species , is so large that it invalidates the conclusions .
No one of these sources of error taints the present tabulation .
The conclusions suggested are\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The sub-order Schoenese originated in prehistoric time at some centre on which the three streams of species ( Patagonian , Cape , Australian ) converge , and has spread^ from that centre northward .
( 2 .
) Two of the genera , viz. , Schoenus and Cladium , have developed largely , and produced each a great number of species .
( 3 .
) One species in each of these two genera has become cosmopolitan , a common case in large genera from one end of the Genera Plantarum to the other .
498 Antarctic Origin of the Schcenece .
[ Mar. 12 , ( 4 .
) Each of these two cosmopolitan species , superabundant in individuals , has thrown off a local offshoot , which in a.d. 1902 produces in our minds the impression of a geographic subspecies .
The whole preceding argument hangs on the question whether I have included the right genera in my sub-order Schceneae .
The Schoenese dealt with in this map , are the 3-style-branched Schceneae of Bentham , which are regarded as a very closely allied group by Kunth , Boeckeler , F. Mueller , and the orthodox cyperologists .
In the Plant-families of Engler and Prantl a different system has been adopted ; this , however , has not been accepted in their writings on Cyperaceae either by Germans as Goebel , Solms-Laubach , Celakovski , or by Americans as Britton , Bailey .
The present map is grounded on the systematic arrangement of Cyperaceae by Bentham .
The few points in the map which I regard myself as doubtful I have given against my own case , e.g.:\#151 ; The outlying species marked in the North-west Himalaya is a small species\#151 ; -an elementary form\#151 ; which I have placed in the Sehoeneae , but may possibly really belong to some other sub-order .
Several outlying localities in West Africa and the West Indies , belong to one genus\#151 ; Remirea\#151 ; which was regarded by Bentham as an abnormal member of the Schoeneae .
There are several , and some large , orders of plants , as Proteaceae , Bestiaceae , \amp ; c. , confined , or nearly so , to the Southern Hemisphere ; the present case is only one branch of a very large argument , presented in detail .
EXPLANATION OF MAP ( PLATE 14 ) .
The map represents the world-distribution of the 266 species which constitute the Schcenese , with reference to the 23 sub-areas lined out in black .
For each species a mark is put in each sub-area in which it occurs .
For 262 species the mark is a black dot .
For the two species Scheenus nigricans , Linn. , Schcenus ferruginous , Linn. , the mark is a ring .
For the two species Cladium Jamaicense , Crantz , Cladium triglomeratum , Nees , the mark is a cross .

