A Letter from Mr. Edward Lhuyd , Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford , to Dr. R.R. in Yorkshire ; giving an Account of a Book , Entitled , OYPE~I~OITH~ Helveticus , sive Itinera Alpina Tria , &amp;c. Authore Joh. Ja .
Scheuchzero , M. D. Lond. 4to .
MDCCVIII .
Honoured Sir , HAving had the Favour of a Perusal of Dr. Scheuchzer 's Itinera Alpina , as the Sheets were printed off , I take an Opportunity offered by a Friend , of sending you some Account of Part of that very Learned and Ingenious genious Gentleman 's Observations ; because all the Plates being not yet Engraven , it may be some time ever the Book is published ; and in regard nothing else occurs at present , that I can suppose so acceptable , or indeed worth sending .
What chiefly falls under his Consideration is the Nature of the Alpine Waters and Meteors ; the Height , &amp;c. of the Mountains , and the most Remarkable Minerals and Plants they afford He has also some Occasional Observations on Animals ; and others in the Practice of Physic , and on the Customs and Diet of the Inhabitants ; together with some Instances of the Superstition of the Common People , and a few Notes relating to Antiquities .
Any of these Subjects he takes notice of , after the manner of other Journals , as they occur ; but having now read the Sheets all over , and seen several of the Tables , the Account I send , tho ' imperfect , is according to these General Heads .
First as to the ALPINE WATERS ; Besides those which are Medicinal , he has several Observations on the Rivers and Brooks .
The Rhine he affirms to have changed its old Course , between Roncaglia and the DISTRICT OF SCHAMS .
As for the Valley ( says he ) of La Via mala ; If we may not suppose it to have been anciently at the lower end unopen ; we must of necessity allow it to have been gradually one Age after another considerably depressed , by the Impetuous Current of the Latter Rhine .
It is most certain , and from the Track of the Water which has polished the Stones , demonstrable ; that very anciently ( we may perhaps suppose it in the First Ages after the Deluge ) the Course of the Rhine was along La Via mala , whereas it now runs thro ' ' Deep Caverns and Clefts of Rocks about 200 Foot below that Road .
The like Observation is also made by Mr. Colweck on the Course of the Taminna , which runs by the Pepper Bath , in his German Treatise of those Waters ; but our Author judges it a difficult Experiment , if at all practiIt .
2 .
p. 27 .
practicable , to make any Computation of the Depth a Valley sinks in a Century , by marking Yearly the Height of the Water on the Stones in the narrow Passages of the Mountains ; because of the Annual and even Daily Variations of the Quantity and Force of Water , which depends on the Quantity of Rain , as also of melted Snow and Ice ; as likewise of the Resistance made by Stones and Trees eradicated by the Torrents .
Betwixt Andera and Speluca he takes notice of the frequent Catarrhacts on the Rhine , where the Foaming Waters are so dashed against the Rocky Precipices , that the adjoining Cliffs are thereby continually Watered , nor do the Travellers always escape , One of these , being that which seemed most Remarkable , he gives us a Draught of , in the 8th Table of his Second Journey .
These Catarrhacts are also not uncommonin the Territory of ENGELBERG , amongst which , that of ~ , over against the celebrated Mountain TITLISBERG , affords the pleasantest Prospect .
But the most agreeable Cascade he met with in all his Travels , is on the River Maira , opposite to the Place where the Town of Plurs once stood , which is now only Fields and Meadows ; that being the most Remarkable of any , for Breadth as well as Depth , which he computes to be about 100 Foot .
The River having so Great a Fall , the neighbouring Fields are continually bedewed with its constant sprinkling ; and the Spectators become soon dropping wet ; which inconveniency the Pleasant Prospect not only of the Catarrhact , but also of a Circular Rainbow they stand in , makes such amends for , that it is not in the least regarded .
Such Rainbows are also seen , at some Catarrhacts of the Rhinc , as particularly that noted Waterfall at LAUFFin ZURICH , well described by Glareanus in his Panegyricon Helvetia .
It .
2 .
p. 3c .
It .
1 .
p. 27 .
On the 23d of Angust he ascended Monte di Set , or ( as the Germans call it)SETMERBERG , which is part of the Julian Alps , to see on the top of it the celebrated Springs of three Rivers , at the distance of scarce twenty Perches : viz. those that flow Northward , constitute part of the Rhine ; those on the South West , the River Maira , which runs through BERGEL and Clavenna ; and those on the East , the Aqua de Pila .
But the Mountain about the Springs being all covered with Snow , his Curiosity was satisfied with the Alpine Plants and some other Rarities that occurred .
This Observation may be paralleled in the Origin of divers of our own Rivers ; as particularly of the Severn , the Wye and Rheidiol at Pymlymon on the Confines of Mongomery and Cardiganshire , and several other Places on the Mountains of Wales and Scotland .
But i tis to be observed , that as it is not one Spring that makes any considerable Brook , much less a large River ; so no Rivulet carries the Name of the River it slows into , to the Fountain Head ; the Names the Rivers are distinguished by , being given to the Confluence of divers Rivulets in the Lower Valleys ; where if they form a Lake , as they very often do , that Lake is most commonly , not to say always , dencminated from the River ; and not , as some contend , the Rivers from their Lakes .
The reason of which is , that the Inhabitants on the Rivers , found it necessary to give them Names , more early than to the Mounatain Lakes , which at the first Peopling of a Country , were known comparatively but to very few .
But the most Remarkable Place our Author mentions for Springs , is the Town of Flims , which he says is thence denominated ; the Word Flim signifying a River in the Grison Language .
About half a Mile out of Town , there are most clear Springs , which break forth at the Foot of the Mountain , which immediately constitute Rapid Streams , and in the Village it self are reckoned thirteen ; where the Waters gush forth with a sort of noise , in Rivulets from half a Foot to two Footbroad .
Some of these are Temporary , which the Inhabitants ascribe to the melted Ice and Snow ; others Perennial , supplied from the Great Hydrophylacia in the Bowels of the Mountain .
The most considerable of these Fountains is called the Gorg , quasi Gurges ; which is a Perennial one , and of it self serves to turn a Mill .
Another place is called Furnash , where four Rivulets spring within the Distance of eleven Feet .
Ily Davos is also a Temporary Spring , but nothing so cold as the rest .
Whoever would be Curious ( says he ) to trace out the first Sources of these Fountains , in the very Bowels of the Earth , may receive some Light if he considers that the Town is situated at the Foot of the OBER ALP , which Mountain is not [ as generally they are in the Alps ] raised to a sharp Ridge ; but composed of exceeding broad Rocks , such as have no Fissures , but are continued , after the manner of Alembick .
He compares it , he says , to an Alembick ; because he is fully persuaded , that this Phenomenon ought to be conceived in the same manner , as Distillation is commonly and easily explained : viz. that there are Aqueous Vapours raised in great plenty from the deep Bowels of the Mountain , to the Top , by means of Subterraneous Heat ; and that they are ( quoad minimam partem ) exhal d into Air ; which meeting with the Rocks shut on all all sides , is condensed into Water ; and that trickling down , stagnates in those great Cavities we call Hydrophylacia , whence afterwards by Subte raneous Natural Aqueducts , the Waters are conveyed to this Village , and those Neighbouring Places where we see them break forth .
The Inhabitants are said to have made an Experiment to find out the Subterraneous Passage of the Gorg ; which was , the casting down some Saw-Dust at a Cleft of the Mountain , towards the Top , where they heard the noise of running Water ; and those who were left to watch below , found the Dust come out at the Spring .
They pretend to distinguish some of those Waters from others as to Goodness , tho ' our Author , upon Trial , found them all of the same weight .
The People that live here , tho ' in all other Respects very lively and healthy , become sooner Gray and Bald pated than elsewhere ; and this they all attribute to their drinking these Waters .
I must not here omit the giving you some Account of the Alpine Torrents , which do sometimes Incredible Damage in these Countries .
These they call BACHE N , a Word agreeing with your Northern BEC K ; as their BRUNNEN [ Springs ] does with BOUR N. The First he takes notice of , is the SPREITENBACH at the LESSERAUBRI G ; which often lays the Farms waste by its sudden Inundations .
The River Nolla , says he , which springs at the Foot of Beuerin Mountain was so called by the Ancients , quasi Nulla , but in our Days it enlarges daily its Bounds ; and is so Rapid and Destructive , that it often ruins whole Fields , Houses , and Stables .
It 's easily distinguish d in the Rhine from that River , by its Black Colour ; which he attributes partly to the Swiftness of both Streams , but chiefly to the weight of the Nolla , by which it forces it self thro ' the lighter Water of the Rhine .
The Black Mud of the Nolla , which contains plenty of very small Cubical Pyritae , is the occasion of its Colour .
At Flims he saw the Destruction wrought by a small Brook ( a little before his coming ) called , ~BLAUN E , which flowed with so much Violence from the abovementioned OBERALP Mountain , that breaking its Bank , and taking a new course , it almost ruined half the Town .
The Houses were battered thro ' by an Infinite number of Stones ; Stables and Barns broken , and Rooms of dwelling Houses filled up with Mud , Earth and Gravel .
Such a Flood they call RUFI N , where of one had happened at this Place before , in the Year 1687 , and X2 another It .
1 .
p. 4 .
It .
2 .
p. 23 .
another in 1572 , when several Houses , and part of the Church , were battered down .
But the most surprising of all he mentions , is that at NIDERUR N , which had almost destroyed the whole Town .
Of this , the Minister of the Place sent him the following Relation .
` ` This Disaster happened ( says he ) on the 2d of Au``gust ; which was a clear , calm Day .
Towards the Evening the Sky seemed to threaten Rain , but not so much to us as others ; upon which I began to be concerned for those of MOLLI S , and others of the higher Villages .
There seemed to be there and elsewhere a great Rain ; tho ' so tolerably clear with us , that we were rather in hopes 'twould soon be over , than appre``hensive of Danger .
But it was not long after , that our Sky was also covered with Black Clouds ; and between the Hours of Six and Seven the Rain began to fall , not in Drops , but as if poured out of Pitchers ; whence fearing , as well as others , some Mischief from our Brook , I began to run to a neighbour``ing Bridge ; to assist at the removing it , but too late as well as others ; for as soon as I got out of the House , I met the People in a great Consternation in the Grove adjoining , taking their Flight and for saking their Houses and Streets for fear of the swel``ling River ; making the best of their way to my House for their Security , and advising me either to free quickly , or return .
Whilst I was in this Surprise , and returning home , the Flood begins to dash the Walls of the House , tho ' remote enough from the Channel of the River ; and to beat so hard at our Heels , that I could scarce shut the Door .
Looking out at a Window , nothing appeared in View , but a Sky and Sea , a Lake I mean , brought suddenly over the whole Town , breaking down Mounds , carrying away Timber and whatever else it met with ; breaking in many places the Doors of Houses and Cellars ; driving before it all Bridges , and in some place throwing down Walls .
Destroying several Fruit Trees by rooting them up , and spoiling much more .
The Seats were found swimming in the Church ; the Buildings near the first Effort of the Flood , a Tucking and Grinding Mill ( but such as were not inhabited ) so entirely destroyed , that there was not the least Track of them remaining .
Some Men carried the Feeble Women on their Shoulders to the higher Places ; and many by avoiding one Danger fell into a worse ; whilst leaving their Houses to flee elsewhere , they were obliged to climb Trees .
The cause of so great and surprising a Deluge , seems to have been a vast Storm in in the higher Grounds mixed with Hail , which fell in such a quan``tity on the Mountains of Niderurn , that there were Heaps of them as high as Houses ; wherein whole Firr-Trees , which the Waters had eradicated , swam upright ; whence so immense a Quantity of Water collected in the Alps , after having ruined the Mountain Pastures , was born down with such Violence , rooting up Firrs and other vast Trees , and rolling before it Gravel and Stones .
By this means the Channel of the Brook , at the Foot of the Mountain , may be supposed to have been stopped for some time ; whence breaking forth afterwards with the greater force , and at unusual and deep Places , the fatal con``sequence here described naturally ensued .
The Helvetian and Grison Alps afford , it seems , no small number of Periodical Rivulets , such as our Lambourn in Berkshire described by the Poet Sylvester and Mr. Hippisley* .
These they call MEYBRUNNEN or May Springs ; one of which he met with in his First Journey , from its White Colour , called , DERMILC HB AC H ; which flows out of a Mountain Lake , called , ALPELER SEELI N , only in the Months of June and July .
Another he mentions at GRAFFENORT H , betwixt the Abbey of ENGELBER G , and the Town of WOLFFENSCHIE S , called from the extraordinary Coldness of the Water , DERKALTEBRUN N. This breaks out about the third May , and desists towards the middle of tember .
It was looked upon as ominous , that in the Year 1700 , it should continue to the Month of October .
Another of the same sort , not far off , is called , DERDURBRUNNE N. In the Valley of VATTISTHAL he takes notice of two Brooks , called , GORBSBAC H , one whereof is about two , and the other three Foot over , at their first appearance out of the Rocks ; whence he concludes , there must be some vast Hydrophylacium , or Natural Cistern in the Bowels of the Mountain .
These , tho ' they are not so called , observe the same Course with the MEYBRUNNE N ; and in the 2d Table he has given us a Draught of the Mountain , and the issuing forth of these Springs .
But the most celebrated , and particularly remarkable , is that of the Valley of HASHTHAL in BER N. This Fountain observes a double Course or Period ; one Annual , and the other Diurnal or Horary .
It flows only three Months , viz. from the midst of May to the midst of August ; *Plot 's Not .
Hist. of Staffordshire , P. 57 .
Paragraph .
46 .
but It .
1 .
~ .
~ .
It .
2 .
p. 1 ~ .
It .
2 .
p. 19 .
but not ( as the rest of the MEYBRUNNE N ) continually : For generally it flows only about Eight in the Morning and Four in the Afternoon .
But its Course , for what has been hitherto observed , is very Irregular .
Sometimes the Water breaks forth in an Evening , and continuing all Night , ceases in the Morning ; at other times it resumes its Course in the Morning , and often recovers it at other times of the Day ; very often it runs three or four Days together ; and at other times for several Days no Water at all appears .
He affirms the Water of their Alps in general to be exceeding light , insomuch , that tho ' they are drunk plentifully , they do not in the least clog the Stomach , which is usually offended by other Waters ; and this he Parallels with an Observation of Sir Robbert Sibbald 's of the Water of Hoia in Orkney .
Several of their Spring Waters when boiled , turn of a whitish Colour , and precipitate a white Powder ; as particularly that of the MEZ GB RUNNEN at LACHE N , which is therefore thought impregnated with Alum .
It .
2 .
p. 6 .
It .
2 .
p. 7 .
Having done with his Observations on the Rivers and Brooks , and Common Springs ; what remains , are those he has on the Mineral and Medicinal Waters .
On the highest Plain of Hacken , he met with a cold Sulphureous Spring , encompassed with a Wall , and covered with Tiles for the use of Travellers ; who take large Draughts of the Water , without the least Inconveniency ; tho it has a black claiey Earth , of a strong Sulphureous Scent .
~ .
~ .
~ .
7 .
Not far from the Springs of the River Oen , are the Waters of St Maurice .
so much frequented by the Grisons , Switzers , Germans and Italians .
He declines here ( which is also his Laudable Method throughout the whole Book ) the Transcribing what has been written by other Authors concerning these Waters ; contenting himself with the Character Paracelsus gives them ; and adding some few Observations of his own .
Before all the Acidulae I know in Europe ( says Paracelsus .
~ ) I must celebrate those I met with at St. Maurice 's in Engedin , which runs most Acid in the Month of August .
Whoever drinks-that Water as Medicinal , acquires Health ; and never becomes Subject to the Stone , Gravel nor Gout : For it so strengthens the Stomach , that it enables it to dissolve Tariar and divers other Bodies , which taken in our Meat and Drink occasion Distempers .
This Spring gushes out bubling at the Foot of the Moun~ Theophr .
Paracels .
de Morbis Tartareis , C. 16 .
p. m. 323 .
tain tain in a corner of a Fenny Meadow , about a quarter of a Mile out of the Village .
The Well is half a yard over ; and has a Building like a small Chappel for preserving it , and to keep it from a mixture with Rain .
The Water has a strong Vitriolick Taste , and upon Trial , he found it to be the heaviest of all he examined that whole Journey , viz. ~ii .
~vi .
gr. 37 So that a Pound of it contains ~ .
gr. xxvi .
of Vitriolico-Saline and Chalybeat Particles .
That they contain such Bodies appears not only from the Taste , but also from these following Experiments .
Spirit of Sal Armoniac with Spirit of Wine a little altered it , and the same Spirit with Urine turned it of a whitish Colour .
Also Oil of Tartar per deliquium made it Milk white ; and Powder of Gauls turned it first carneous , and then of a Blakish Red .
So that these Waters must proceed from Vitriolico Chalybeat Veins , wherewith the adjoining Mountains and Valleys abound .
There are here and there , other Chalybeat Springs in the same Mountains , which leave a yellow Sediment , and have an Acid Taste , as particularly that on the North side of the Valley over against this St. Maurice 's Well .
The Waters of Andera , called D AS B AD , [ or the Bath ] is an Insipid Chalybeat , containing in a Pound weight 51 Grains of Heterogeneous Particles .
It turns a little whitish with Spirit of Sal Armoniac prepared with Nitre ; somewhat muddy with Spirit of Sal Armoniac cum S. V. Milk-white on Affusion of Oil of Tartar , with a Sediment of the same Colour , and reddish with Powder of Galls .
Not far from the said Andhra is a very clear Water , which if drunk plentifully creates an Appetite .
It 's of the same weight with the above mentioned Chalybeat , and strongly impregnated with Iron Particles , to which he ascribes its Quality .
It .
2 .
p. 29 .
But his largest and most particular Account is that of the Pepper Bath [ or PFEFFERSWASSE R ] which if it does not exceed all the Baths of Europe , may ve with the most celebrated of them .
There has been an Account given of it in particular Tracts , by Paracelsus , Mr. Kolweck Secretary to the Abbey of Pfeffers , Dr. Zimmerman , Augustinus Stocklin , Abiss , and Schmuzius ; and occasionally by divers other Authors .
They were discovered by a Falkoner accidentally , in the Year 1240 .
The Water breaks forth in a dreadful Place , scarce accessible to the Sun beams , or indeed to Men unless of the greatest Boldness , and such as are not in the least subject to Dizziness ; so terrible is the narrowness of the way , and of the Bridge which is supported al It .
2 .
p. 16 most every where on Rocks , and so affrighting the swift Course and Noise of the Taminna dashed against the Rocky Precipices underneath .
The Aqueduct and Bridge are in length about ~ Paces .
It is not one single Stream that breaks forth , but several , the chief whereof which is locked up , is so large that it susfices to turn a Mill .
The side Springs , tho ' the Water be of the same clearness and goodness , are not preserved for any use ; but having got out thro ' the Fissures of the Rocks and claiey Earth , mix their Waters with the Rapid Taminna .
These Baths have that singularity of all others , that they commonly break forth in the Month of May , and that with a sort of Impetuousness with Beech-leaves , Crabs , or other Wood Fruit , their Course desisting at September or October ; so that they may be reckoned among the MEYBRUNNEN described above ; tho ' it must be owned they flow more plentifully some Years than others .
In the Year 1704 , the Author took a Journey to these Baths for the Recovery of his Health .
His Distemper being certain Obstructions with no small pain in the Cutaneous and Glandulous part of the Head , especially at Full and New Moon , which he had been afflicted with for some Years ; and which occasioned at last a violent Headache , which the Drinking of these Waters removed , tho ' not the first Malady .
Having on this occasion a great deal of leisure time at the Bath , he made it one main point of his Business to examine the Nature , Qualities and Effects of the Water ; and after repeated Experiments , he professes himself of Opinion , for several Reasons moving him thereunto , that these Waters are not impregnated with any Minerals ; or if they do contain any , that their Virtues in curing Distempers and preserving Health , do not proceed from them .
~ , 3 .
~ .
1 , 2 .
&amp;c. 1 They are exceeding clear , destitute of Colour , Taste and Smell : For as for that seeming Sweetness , which some Drinkers think they perceive , it is nothing but what 's common to all warm Water .
2 .
It is therefore accommodated to the Taste of all , because being perfectly insipid , it affects the Organs of all Men alike ; that is , their Palates are not made sensible by any Figures of Sulphur , Salts , or other Minerals .
3 .
By Infusion of Various Liquors or Powders ; of Aqua sortis , Tincture of Tornesol , Juice of Berberries , Syrup of Violets , Distillation of Vinegar , Spirit C. C. Spirit of Vitriol , &amp;c. no change it all ensued ; altho ' each Infusion stood for the space of two Days .
Upon pouring on a Solution of Mercury Sublimate , he perceived at first no change ; but soon after there appeared on the Surface a small Film of the Beautiful Colour of a Peacock 's Feather .
Also Oil of Tartar per deliquium caus 'd no sudden Alteration , save only that some Hours after a small circular white Cloud subsided , the Liquor remaining diaphanous .
In like manner Tartarum tartarizatum Ludovici produced a certain Whiteness .
As for the Red Colour it received from the Tincture of Red Roses it soon disappeared , the Water recovering its clearness .
These are but small Changes , and common enough in other Spring Waters , as well cold as hot .
4 .
By several repeated Experiments , he found it to be of the same Specific Gravity with Rain Water , whence he supposes it destitute of heavier Bodies of what sort soever ; or at least not so far impregnated with such , as the Effects might be attributed thereunto .
He found this Water when warm , lighter than the cold by a Grain , in the Quantity of seven Drams , which he attributes to the rarify 'd Air in the Pores .
5 .
No Flowers are here sublimated , no Cremor swimming on the Surface no Tophus adhering to the Walls or found in the Aqueduct , nor any Crocus precipitated .
He infers hence , that this PEPPER BATH is more pure and refined than any other Waters , whether Fountain or Mineral .
If together with this , their moderate Heat be considered , and the extraordinary refinedness of the Particles composing the Water , these Obvious Phenomenon of their Healing and Preservatory Faculty may be , he presumes , without much difficulty explained ; which Explanation , tho ' new and curious , because somewhat long , I leave to your perusal in his own Words .
As for the Use and Virtues of these Waters , he says , 'twould require a particular Tract ; and therefore he only Transcribes the following brief Account of them out of Wagnerus .
These most celebrated and wholesome Waters ( says he ) are an inexhaustible Treasure of Health , because by drinking them as well as bathing in them , they remove the Obstructions of the Brain and Nerves , afford great benefit to such as are troubled with the Falling Sickness , Apoplexy , Headache , Decay of Memory , Hearing or Sight ; the Palsy , Cramp , Convulsion , Stiffness of the Limbs , Obstructions of the Liver , Spleen or Mesentery , or Hypochondriac Melancholy .
They yield Relief to the Gouty , and to those who are afficted with Tedious Agues , or with bruised or broken Limbs and Malignant Ulcers ; with the Stone in the Reins or Kidney .
They dry up Tetters , Cancers , FiY stula 's stula 's , sore Breasts , immoderate Flux of the Menstrua , &amp;c. But let those who are afficted with the Dropsy , Consumption , Hectic Fever , Yellow Jaundice , Gonorrhaea , Leprosy or Bloody Flux , as also all breeding Women , avoid the use of them .
Of the same weight with this of the Pepper Bath , which , as is said above , is equal to that of Rain Water , he often found the Waters of other Alpine Springs , which he therefore esteems the more refinedly distilled ; and as such , they are not only drank , but even quaffed off in large Quantities , by Strangers as well as Natives .
~ .
Several of his Observations about METEORS , are no less remarkable than those on the Waters .
The South side of the SURENEN ALPS , he tells us , are perpetually covered with Snow , and those Rocks of Perennial Ice of a pale blew Colour , called FIRN , which , as it seems from other Writers , as well as our Author , are no great Rarity in the Alps , tho ' I could hear of no such thing in Scotland , and am sure there 's nothing like it at Snowdon , and our other High Mountains of ~ .
For this reason , the Natives call the Southern side of these Alps , DIE WINTERLICH SEITE [ or Winter side ; ] and the Northern , DIE SOMMERLICH SEIT .
Even the Valley of ENGELBERG , because guarded on all sides with such High Mountains , has always such a cold Air , that it has given occasion to the Proverb : It .
1 .
p. 9 .
The ~ Weather of Engelberg ; Winter thirteen Months , and all the rest of the year Summer : Which agrees with that of the Grisons in RHINWALD , who say , The Year with them has three Months of ~ cold Weather , and nine Winter .
He is of Opinion that cold Weather gains Ground .
In this De~ Age of the World , says he , most of the Seasons of the Year grow ~ ; the Winter longer , the Summer shorter , the Wine pale and ~ .
The ~ People take notice , and he adds , that he can also ~ their Observation ; that the Quantity of Snow on their ~ increases annually ; insomuch that in Places where in Man 's Memory , the Snow that fell in Winter would all dissolve the Summer following , to the great support of Cattle and Comfort of their Owners ; it is now piled in great Heaps , such as never melt at all , but on the contrary are annually increased .
Whilst they ascended the High Mountain , called SETMER~ ~ , which is part of the Julian Alps , on the 21st of August ; they were fatigued with the severe Rain and Sleet that fell , attended with a cold Northernly Wind .
This Rain lasted all Night in the Valley , tho ' the adjoining Mountains were almost half covered with Snow ; and to Snow on Mountains whilst it rains in their Valleys , is but what often happens in our Mountains of Wales , and doubtless in the North as well in England as Scotland .
~ .
2 .
~ .
~ .
At Selva piana he takes notice of their Fountains being covered with a very thick Ice on the 24th of August .
It .
2 .
p. 42 .
On the ~ SEE , or Lacus Rivarius , in calm and fair Weather they have Periodical Winds ; which the Watermen make good use of , as they sail from Wesen to Wahlenstad , as also in their return .
Early in the Morning before Sun-rising , an East Wind beings , and blows in the calm Summer Weather ( whence its common Name of Hay-weather Wind ) till about Ten .
From Ten to Twelve the Wind ceases , and the Air is calm .
After Twelve a West Wind begins , and continues till the Evening ; and after Sun-set the Eastern ( which is then called DER OBERWIND ) resumes its Turn .
The Northern Wind , no very welcome Guest to the Sailers , sometimes interrupts these Regular Gales .
A Reflection on the situation of this Lake , will give us a clear Account of the Phenomenon .
The Lake of WALLENST AT is extended , from East to West , in a free open Air ; and that Air soon admits of the Rays of the Eastern Sun ; as it is influenced also by the Western till the late Evening .
But on the North and South sides of the Lake , there are exceeding High Mountains , which occasion that the Waves being dashed against the Rocks , are forced back ; whence that boisterous Roughness , which so often threatens the Sailers .
Hence it is easy to conclude , that the Atmosphere being rarify 'd , or at least in some degree expanded by the Rising Sun , cannot diffuse it self to all Quarters alike ; and so not being able to make an equal Distribution of its Air , nor altogether to get rid of it , being imprisoned betwixt the High Ridges of GLARIS , ZUG , and SARG ANS , it is forced to take its Course Westward .
And whereas it desists at Ten in the Morning , it is because the Sun begins then to culminate the Meridian of the Lake , and to affect the whole Atmosphere impending thereon : But from Y2 Twelve Twelve to Five or Six in the Evening , that part of the Atmosphere which pertains to WESEN is the more expanded , and so driven to WALLENST AD directly in the same manner as the Course of the Eastern Wind has been explained .
And as for the return of the Eastern Wind at Seven or somewhat later in the Evening , he thence infers , that the Portion of the Air which was expanded by the Heat of the Sun , and driven towards WALLENST AD , is by that time returned to its narrow space , and forced , as 'twere by its weight , towards WESEN .
This Account Dr. Scheuchzer gives of the Wind , puts me in mind of his Observation on the Air of this Mountainous Tract .
From repeated Observations ( says he ) on the Height of the Mercury in the Barometer , I gather that the Elasticity of the Air is much greater in these Alpine Countries , than with us at ZURICH , which I attribute to its greater Purity ; the Explanation whereof I had rather hear from others of better Judgment and Experience , than pretend to it my self , by obtruding my own Conjecture .
It .
2 .
p. 15 .
I must not here omit those Observations , he tells us , the Alpine People make , concerning the Signs of Fair Weather .
Those of ENGELBERG expect Rain , when they see the Top of STALLICSTOCK covered with Clouds ; or when they see grey Clouds appear Northward at the Entry of the Valley .
In other Places of the Alps , an extraordinary Noise and Murmuring of the Torrents is a Token of Rain .
At Filisur among the Grisons they have a Proverb of the Weather , which I Transcribe , because the only Words I have seen in that Ancient Dialect of the Italians .
It .
1 .
p. 17 .
Cura ch ' il pitz da Stiervi fo chiapi ; Schi lascha der la fotsch , &amp; piglia il rasti : WHEN STERWISKNOLL A CAP DOTH MAKE ; AWAY WITH SYTHE , AND FETCH THE RAKE .
So at Novena near the Fountain of the Rhine , a Cloud , great or small , on Cucarnil Mountain presages Showers of Rain that Evening or next Morning .
At SIL in the UPPER ENGADIN is a Lake about a Mile in length , and half a Mile broad , on which whenever there are Clouds , it is an Infallible Sign of Rain ; but he quotes J. Leopoldus Cysat for an Observation ( if his Proverb be not an Ironical one ) contradictory to these Presages ; which is , that Mons Pilati at Lucern betokens Fair Weather when it puts on its Hood .
The Proverb shows so much the Identity of the High Dutch and Ancient English , that it needs no Translation : WANN DER PILATUS HAT EIN HUT , SO IST DAS WETTER FEIN UND GUT .
The Rupture with a thundering Noise of the Alpine Ice , and the Descending of the Chamoises , or Alpine Goats , into the lower Mountains , are also looked upon as Forerunners of Storms .
The PASCHOLER SEE presages Rain by its rumbling noise ; and a small Lake , called Calandari , is whirled about , and swells before an approaching Storm ; and roars so loud , as to be heard in the Opposite Mountains and Valleys , to the distance of six Hours ; of which Phenomenon he gives us the Solution of Cardan and Morhofius , and lastly offers his own Thoughts .
It .
2 .
p. 24 .
In Fair Weather , he tells us , that there 's almost continually a White Cloud hovering about an Erect Pillar , called DER SENNEN STEIN , near KUNKELS .
These sort of White Clouds the Mountaineers call TROCKEN and HEUWETTER , NEBEL ~ ; affirming , that such Clouds ( from the Appearance whereof they foretel Fair Weather ) arise constantly from the Earth ; which he afterwards found true himself , in the Ascent of Speluga and divers other Mountains .
The Pillar above mentioned , he says , is not ( as those of Stonehenge , and divers other Places throughout Britain and Ireland ) erected by Mens Hands , but Natural ; tho the height of Thirty Foot .
This one would think scarce reconcilable with an Opinion he is said to maintain , of an Atomical Dissolution of all Things the Terrestrial Globe consisted of at the Deluge ; for if so , we are left to seek , what Mould such a Pillar should be cast in , and thus supported like an Erect Statue , ten Yards above Ground .
But the truth is , he has no where hitherto , that I know of , professed publicly that Opinion , which has been long since sufficiently exploded in the Ingenious Examination of it .
For in his Epistle before the Translation of Dr. Woodmard 's Essay , ~ Viz .
Hay-weather Clouds .
It .
2 .
p. 20 .
he only tells him , that his Book had convinced him , the Fossil Shells , &amp;c. were of Marine Origin ; which amounts to no more than what I had published in the Philosophical Transactions two Years before that Essay appeared * , tho ' I since humbly proposed to Mr. Ray 's Examination , the Hypothesis you find at the end of the Lithophylacij Britannici Ichnographia ; which had not he and other Friends thought useful , on Account ( whatever may be said of it self ) of the Observations attending it , I should not have been in the least fond of Publishing .
III .
The MOUNTAINS he takes notice of , as most remarkable for their Height , are about an hundred ; the Height of a great many whereof he calculates by the Barometer ; as particularly that of the Broken Mountain or Mons Pilatus , one of the Tops of Speluga , Mons Julius above Bevio [ or Stabulum bivium ] and divers others ; tho ' according to his wonted Candour , he owns that Method liable to a great many Objections .
Some of the Helvetian Mountains , most celebrated for Height , are TITLISBERG , commonly reputed the highest in all Swisserland , the height whereof he computes to be 358 Perches ; SPITZMEIL , an exceeding High Mountain in Glaris ; BAMBERG or BANBERG , to the Top of which , called ECK and SURENENECK , are five Hours almost continual Ascent ; whereof above one Hour was thro'Snow , tho ' in the Month of August .
Amongst the Grisons he takes notice of Tcherler Alp , auf Ammon , Tertsnerberg , Molserberg , Segnes Zuor &amp; Zout [ i.e. Upper and Lower , ] called by the Swiss Flimserberg , St. Joannesberg , Heinzenberg , Beverin , Buntz , Caland , Calveissen , Den Julien , Mortshen , Munton , Maloya , Monte di Set , &amp;c. The The Names of these Hills are , as we may guess by some Notes of the Author , so Ancient and Obscure , for the most part of them , as not to be Intelligible to the present Inhabitants .
The Word BERG , which is the Termination of so many of them , and which might be added to all , is well known to signify Mountain ; and we find Alp [ Plur .
Alpen ] to have been anciently another Appellative for any Mountain of extraordinary Height ; whence Obhagalp , Hermisalp , Ochsenalp , Alplein ; Firnalpen , Gersteinalpen , Schwenalpen , &amp;c. The latter of these two Words Servius tells us , is ~ Epistola ad D. Christophorum Hemmer M. D. Hasniensem .
Act .
Phil. Lond. N. 200 .
It .
2 .
p. 9 .
Celtic , as the other is Teutonic .
It is doubtless from this known signification of the Word in that Country , that our Author takes the Liberty of using it occasionally in the Singular Number .
WANDT , whence DIE WAND , DIE GLATTESWAND , DIE STAFFEL WAND , &amp;c. signifies properly a Wall ; and is commonly used , as we find by Rabman 's Verses on the Chamoise Hunters , for any smooth perpendicular Rock .
GRADT and ECK , whatever they may here signify , are also no unusual Terminations in the Names of their Mountains .
As ~ Storec , Sandeck Scheideck Roserech ; Setlengradt , Plangengrade , ~thalergrade , &amp;c. Bamberg he supposes so called quass ~ , because of the Penalty inflicted on any one that cuts a Tree thereon , least by the Fall of Stones , &amp;c. Houses should be destroyed , and Men and Cattle Killed or wounded .
Ban or Bean in Ireland , Scotland , and Wales , we call any Hill of extraordinary Height ; and peradventure the word here had no other Origin ; as their River Taminna , which comes from the Pepper-Bath , is perhaps no other than our ~ warm , which is also the Name of a River in Mongomeryshire .
Those that have STOCK added to their Names , as GITSCHI STOCK , ALPEN STOCK , OCHSENSTOCK , &amp;c. either still are , or have been heretofore Woody ; and the same may be said of WALD ( whence UNTERWALD , BA~ , &amp; c~ ) which the Gauls seem to have pronounced ~ , seeing that in some Parts of South Wales , they still use the word in that Sense .
It .
~ .
p. ~ .
As to the Alteration these Mountains have undergone ; that they are made more steep one Age after another , is manifest from the Account of the Inundations of the A pine Torrents .
That ~ Learned and Indefatigable Naturalist Conradus Gesnerus has long since given us a Particular Description of the Broken Mountain ; and I daily expect to see some Additional Observations thereon , in the Ingenious Dr. Langius of Lucern 's History of the Figured Fossils of Switzerland and the Countries adjoining .
On the 25th of August in the Year 1618 , a considerable part of a Mountain , called Conto among the Grisons , a small Rock on the side of it being undermined by Water , fell down on the Town of Plurs , a very Rich and Populous Place ; which together with an Inundation of the Maira at the same time , so entirely destroyed it , that there remained not so much as the least sign of there having ever been a Town~ excepting one Palace , belonging to the Family of Wertemat , still extant ; which tho ' a stately Fabric , It .
~ .
p. ~ .
was yet but a Summer-house to a Palace they had therein .
Casaccia another Town seated at the Bottom of two Mountains above mentioned , Maloya and Septmer , was half buried in the Ruins of one of them in the Year 1673 ; an immense quantity of Blue Clay being born down by a great Storm of Rain in July .
which had been set at Liberty before , by the melting of the Snow in April .
It .
2 .
p. 38 .
The steepest Hill he ascended , and that which gave him more fatigue than all the rest , was FLIMSERBERG , or ( as the Grisons call it ) Mount ~ ; but the most dangerous way was the WAND SIR WAND , almost at the Bottom of TSCHEINGEL Mountain .
This Passage wants not for Length and Tediousness ; but is moreover so exceeding narrow , that in some Places it is scarce three Inches over ; and the Rock under it , in many Places bare and almost as steep as a Wall , of the Depth of some Hundreds of Feet .
Above it is another continued Wall of Rock ; insomuch that the Security of the Passengers , must depend chiefly on their fastning on the Bushes or Trees growing out of the Chinks or Fissures of the Rock above them .
Such as are in the least subject to Dizziness are , to avoid such danger , conducted a great way about .
It .
2 .
p. 46 .
As to the Caves of these Mountains , it should seem they either are not very numerous , or else so common that he scarce thought them worth the mentioning , as affording little or nothing remarkable .
These they only call LOCH'S [ or Holes ] whereof those he mentions are GEISSLOCH and BRUDERLOCH , with the SILBERLOCH and GOLDTLOCH on the steep Mountain of Diathelm ; and which is most worth notice , St. MARTIN'S LOCH , or rather ( as some probably conjecture ) MATTHISLOCH on the Top of FLIMSERBERG , through which the Inhabitants of the Town of ELM see the Sun yearly on St. Matthew 's Day , as through an Optic Tube ; concerning which he refers us to Wagner 's Hist. Not .
Curiosa Helvetiae* .
He mentions an AEolian Cave at BLATLISBERG near WESEN ; but the most remarkable in that kind are those at Kiavenna , or ( as the Germans call it ) CLEFFEN , amongst which the Inhabitants build those pleasant Cellars , called .Grotti ; where in the Summer Time , on account of the continual motion of the Air , the Wine is so exceeding cold , * Wagn .
H. N. Helv. p. 237 .
It .
2 .
p. 32 .
It .
2 .
p. 46 .
It .
3 .
p. 12 .
It .
1 .
p. 6 .
that it cannot be drunk in them , but by those of a hardy Constitu tion , without some hazard of Health .
Nor is it safe for Men to continue long in any of them .
If a Paper be stuck up in one of these Grotto 's ; it is always bandied to and again with the Wind .
They are remarkably warm in the Winter ; but in the Dog Days so excessive cold , that in some of them one is scarce able to continue half an Hour .
It 's no small Labour in the building these Grotto 's , to find out the Spiracula , or Vent-holes , whereof there are either one , or two , or three , and seldom more in each Cellar .
The most cold are those which have their Vent from above .
They who enter them Sweating , sometimes catch Agues , or else some other Fever .
On account of the Vapours being collected into Drops , the Locks , and any other Irons of the Doors , become Wet on the change of Fair Weather to Rainy .
The Liquor included in a Thermometer descended in these Cellars remarkably ; and in the Barometer , the Mercury ascended a Scruple and a half .
IV .
Having some Years since Published his Specimen Lithographiae Helveticae , and perhaps designing a Lithography , his Observations on Figured Fossils are not so numerous as we should otherwise have wished ; which defect he makes amends for , by taking notice of all the other MINERALS that any where occurred ; which tho ' I 've reduced to a Catalogue , I omit sending you at present , as not having time to Transcribe it .
The Strata of Fossils he tells us , in their Mountains , are not Horizontal , but generally inclining towards the South .
He takes notice that the Mines at the SCHAMS , and elsewhere among the Grisons ( the Iron-works excepted ) are rarely found in continued Veins ; but that the Oar lies scattered in Lumps at uncertain Distances ; nor are they here , as in the Rich Mine Countries of Hungary and Saxony , found in the deep Bowels of the Mountains , but near the Surface of them ; a Particular Instance whereof he gives us of the Mines near ANDER , where the Oar next the Surface is well known to be considerably richer , than that which lies thirteen Fathom deep .
He also affirms , that the Grounds where these Oars are , in this Alpine Country , are exceeding fertile ; whereas in Saxony and Hungary such places are generally barren ; the Grass being shrivel 'd up by the Exhalations of their Rich Mines , which the Alps do not seem to abound with ; and where those they have , Z the It .
2 .
p. ~ .
the Layers are of exceeding thick Stone , which suppress those Noxious Steams .
V. His Observations on PLANTS being very numerous and Curious ; and on such as are for the most ~ , unknown to me ; I can say little or nothing to them .
His Gramen ~ .
~ fo~ gramine~a Raij , which I have osten seen at ~ and our other High Mountains , is well represented in his IVth Table f. 2 .
as is also his Saxifraga Alpina ~~ caeruleo Tourn .
whereof they have great Plenty at the Van above Brecknock , as well as at Snowdon and Ingleburrough .
The Most-figur 'd Iter .
1 .
Tab. VI .
fig 2 .
which he entitles a Variety of Mr. Ray 's Mus. cus terrestris repens clavis singularibus crectis foliosis , seems referable rather to the Muscus abietiformis ; and indeed from the Figure , I should take it for no other than our common Fir-Moss ; as I should the 1st Figure of the same Table for our Muscus terrestris Polyspermos ; because the Fangs by which it creeps , and which would sufficiently have distinguished it , are not expressed .
I find our High Mountains of Wales and Ireland afford several Plants not yet discovered in these Alps ; and perhaps those of the Highlands , none of which , tho ' they are numerous , have been yet searched , may afford some others ; or at least some Alpine Plants not yet discovered to be Natives of Britain .
But on the other hand , the Alps afford much more Variety than we can pretend to .
By the Mountains he mentions as abounding with Plants , and his Account of the height of them , I find that their Highest Mountains , as well as ours , afford the greatest Variety of these Alpine Plants .
You have found , Sir , by Experience , that the Mountains of ~~ and ~ Berys in Carnarvanshire , afford more sorts of Alpine Plants , than have been as yet discovered on all the other Mountains of the Isle of Britain ; and that amongst the Rocks of those Mountains , Klogwyn Karned i Uydva , which being under the Peak of Snowdon , is the very Highest of them , has the most Variety ; and indeed where such High Mountains want naked Rocks , the Alpine Plants they afford , are but few ; as I have experienced by Pym Lymon , Kader Veruyn , and the Mountains of Brecknock .
Those he most takes notice of in Switzerland for Rare Plants , are the ECKER , SURENENECK , TITLISBERG , IOCH [ or the Yoke ] ENGELBERG , OCHSEN STOCK , and WALDNACHT ; and among the Grisons , Speluca , Monte de Set , Monte de Soglio , Segnes , and Malogia ; not but that the other Mountains he names , may have probably the same Plants ; but amongst those he searched , these afforded the best Satisfaction .
The Alps , he tells us , above a certain Height , produce no Trees ; and it should seem that even in their Fertile Valleys , some sorts do not grow so high , as they do elsewhere , seeing he looks upon it as a Thing very Extraordinary , that a Hawthorn on the Bank of the Rhine near ROTHENBRUN , should arrive at the height of almost Ten Foot .
It .
2 .
p. 31 .
It .
2 .
p. 22 .
On Guntzen Mountain above Sargans , the Beech Wood is observed to be harder and heavier than elsewhere ; and much more wreathed and knotty .
The Inhabitants attribute this Hardness , &amp;c. of the Wood , to the Influence the Steams of the Iron and Steel Oars of that Mountain , may have on the Trees : Which reason ( says he ) we need not too hastily reject ; when we have considered that Wood by steeping it in Chalybeat Waters , is rendered so hard as in a great measure to resist Iron .
Another Observation he has on Timber , is that the Deal of the Red Fir , which grows on the highest Forests of GLARIS , and is therefore called HOCHWALDER HOLZ , or Upwood Timber , is lighter and more Porous , and so fitter for Cabinet Works and Musical Instruments .
than any other .
The Circles , or ( as they are commonly called ) Years , are closer ; so that those Trees of GLARIS are of a less Diameter than such as grow at ZURICH , tho ' of the same standing .
It .
3 .
p. 7 .
VI .
As to ANIMALS , his Industrious and Deservedly Famous Predecessor Gesner , having left him little to say ; and his method being to pass by ( as I have before observed ) whatever has been well performed by others ; we had but little to expect here , besides the following Account he gives of the Chamoises , or as the Grisons call them Chiamuotsch .
About the Pepper-Bath , says he , The High Mountains of Galand , the Gray Horns , and several other Alps abound with Herds of the Chamoises ; some Account of which I must not omit on this occasion , which has so osten afforded plenty of their Venison .
Amongst other Notes which Gesner has of these Animals * ; One is , That they meet often about certain Sandy Rocks , * Lib. 1 .
p. 331 .
It .
3 .
p. 7 .
and thence lick off Sand , as Tame Cattle do Salt , in order to cleanse their Tongues and provoke Appetite .
The Alpine SWIZZERS call such Places SULZEN , as if Salt ; and its usual for the Huntsmen to lodge themselves in some Private Shelters near them , that so they may be ready with their Guns , whenever they come to lock .
Also Wagner in his Natural History of Swizzerland , mentions Rocks impregnated with Nitre , resorted unto by the Chamoises .
Such Places , says our Author , are not uncommon in the Alps ; so worn for many Ages by the Tongues of Beasts , that even the Rocks are made hollow .
The Grisons call it GLACK , and those of Glaris and the other Swizzers , LACKINEN and SVLTZ LACKINEN .
But such Stones are not , or at least but very few of them , impregnated with any Salt ; but somewhat Gritty and Friable , insomuch that they can easily lick off Sand from them .
But whether they do this to excite the Appetite , or to rid their Tongues of Slime , or else to promote Digestion , is what he will not undertake to determine ; but affirms it is certain , that when they cannot come at such Places , they 'll take up with any Earth or Sand that comes in their way ; as will also sometimes the Cows and Goats .
` ` When they are hunted , says Gesner , they constantly ascend , till they get into such high Steep Rocks , as are Inaccessible to the Dogs ; where Dr. Scheuchzer takes notice , that in these Days , they use no Dogs in the Hunting them : And whereas Gesner says , that when taken , they may be tamed ; he says , he could not mean those that were full grown , but their Young ones ; which , if only a few Days or Weeks old , are easily caught , because they cannot follow the Herd .
If older , their Method is , when a Huntsman shoots one of the Old ones suckling her Young , he lies down on the Ground , and holding her up as well as he can on the four Feet , the Young one coming to Suck , is snatched up and carried home bound ; and even sometimes the Slaughtered Goat on the Huntsman 's Back , is enough to allure the Kid to follow him down to his House .
These Kids ( or rather as some others would call them Fauns* ) being brought home , are fed with the Milk of Domestic Goats , whereby they become so tame , that they afterwards * Raij ~ .
Meth .
Quadrup .
&amp; Serp .
p. 78 .
Quod ad formam ~ hoc animal ad cervinam nobis accedere visum est .
herd with them in the Alpine Pastures , and also return to the Cots at their Dairy Houses : Tho ' sometimes they forsake the Lower Pastures , and betake themselves to the Highest Rocks , as Places more agreeable to their Nature .
They generally wander about the Alps in Herds ; but not without some Order .
They have a Leader , whom the Huntsmen call the VOR-GEIS or Fore-Goat ; which standing on some remarkable Eminence , listens diligently with erect Ears , whilst the rest are feeding , looking about on all sides at the least noise : And if it hears or sees any thing , it alarms all the rest with a kind of Whistle ; all which , after twice or thrice cropping whatever they feed upon , lift up their Heads , and take their Flight to some other Place .
And thusthey never live secure , excepting in the Inaccessible Rocks , in the Winter Time , or at Night .
They are no less careful in preserving the Lives of their Kids than their own ; and therefore defend them with all possible Diligence from the Vultures ; which when very Young and Tender , are apt to snatch them in their Claws , and when somewhat Older , by beating them with their Wings on the Shelfs of the Rocks , to force them down Precipices , that they may afterwards Prey on them .
They also take especial care , not to bring them to any dangerous Rocks , till they have had some Experience in Climbing and Leaping .
In the Winter they lodge themselves under such Parts of the Rocks as are hollow or shelving about the midst of the Mountains , which secures them from the danger of being involved in those vast Heaps of Snow , that so frequently slide down the Alpine Rocks , during which time their Food is either the Roots of Herbs , the Sprigs of Trees and Shrubs , or Green Herbs which the Snow had covered .
The other part of the Year , they feed in Sunny Places ; but before Sun-rising , and after Sun set , they either lie in the Snow , or under the Shadows of the Rocks .
They who hunt these Beasts have a very laborious as well as dangerous Task .
The high and steep Ridges of the Alps must be climbed , thro ' Horrid Rocks and Cliffs , to other Men inaccessible , and over Perennial Ice and Frozen Snow ; for which reason they walk with Iron Instruments fastened with Tongs to the Soles of their Shoes .
It happens that sometimes standing on a narrow-Shelf of ~ Rock , having scarce half the breadth of their Feet to support them , they drive a~ to that Pass , that it has no other way but that most narrow Passage to escape .
In such an Accident , either the Beast is shot by the Huntsman , or else it endeavours to make its Escape by him ; in which case the best Course he can take , is so to close up his Body to the Rock , that there be no Intermediate Space ; so that then the Beast returning on the outside , the Huntsman is safe himself , and most commonly forces the Chamoise down the Precipice .
But if it should perceive the least vacant space , betwixt the Man and the Rock , it endeavours to enter it with such force , that the Man is thrown down Headlong .
To such necessity are these Men sometimes driven , that in order to save their Lives by Leaping , they are obliged to take off their Shoes and slash their Heels with a Knife , that their Feet being Bloody , may be the more Clammy , and so not so apt to slide .
It 's remarkable , that when these Goats are thus pursued , they will rather stand still and expose themselves to be shot by the Huntsman , than enter a FIRN , or Rock , as it may be called , of Perennial Ice , especially those of a Blue Colour , unless they should be covered with Snow ; by which means a Grison , not long since , snot three of them in the space of one Hour .
These Huntsmen expect the best Success when the Wind is in their Faces ; for if it be with them they smell the Powder , and even Men , tho ' they should not have any about them , at a very great distance , which immediately sets them a running And indeed were it not a thing well known , that they excel in the Sense of Smelling , the Largeness of their Olfactory Nerves would be a sufficient Indication of it .
As for that sort of Topho or Ball found in the Stomachs of these Animals , those that live on the Galand seldom or never have any of them ; which the Mountaineers attribute to the Barrenness of those Rocks .
However that the Chamoises of one Mountain are much more apt to have them , than those of another , is what all the Alpine Huntsmen agree in ; and it 's well known , that in the Northern Mountains of RHINWALD they never have any ; whereas those of the Southern , after they are three Months old , seldom or never want them .
It .
2 .
p. 21 .
In the Year 1699 , it happened that one of these Goats quitting its own Kind and Native Soil , which is always the Highest Alpine Rocks , descended to the Lower Pastures in the Valley of ENGELBERG , and there herded among the Cows and Horses , nor would by any means be driven away .
A Neighbouring Chamoise Hunter , surprised to hear a thing so unusual , gets his Gun and does that without any Trouble , which at other Times had cost him a great deal of Fatigue .
A Curious Gentleman , being desirous desirous to ` learn the Cause of a Thing so unnatural , dissects it , and finds the Dura meninx covered with an Hydatis full of Serum and small Sand ; whence it appeared , that this Chamoise had the Vertigo or Giddiness , seeing that such an Hydatis is well known in all Countries , to be the Cause of it in Cows and Sheep .
When the Cows are troubled with it in the Alps , the Effect it often has , is that they turn themselves about continually , making at any place where they hear the noise of Water , until they come to the Bank of that Brook or River , where neglecting their Food , they stand stock still , as if delighted with the Sound .
Thus , Sir , I have given you some small Account of that Part of the Author 's Observations , that regards Natural Philosophy , properly so called ; all which ( together with the other Part of the Work ) ~ illustrated with about 40 Copper Plates .
As to those he has on the Customs and Industry of the People ; on the Diligence of the Grisons in repairing the Alpine Roads ; on some late Improvements in Agriculture and Gardening , and the Antiquities he takes occasion to mention , I leave them to your Perusal in his own ~ adding only , that to me he seems a Person of no less Candour than Learning , and that I doubt not , but making Allowance for the Interrupted Transitions , unavoidable in a Diary of such Variety of Subjects , you 'll find the Perusal of the remaining Part of the Work , agreeable .
At least I must acknowledge the whole appeared so to , Oxford , Honoured SIR , April 3d .
1708 .
Your most Humble Servant , E. Lhuyd .
LONDO N , Printed for Henry Clements at the Half-Moon in St. Paul 's Church yard .
M DCC VIII .

