]\gt ; Functional Equation employed by Sir George Stokes .
237 If diffusion from the the -phase is slow under even favourable circumstances , it follows that if the -phase already contains gas the rate may become almost unmeasurable , for , as has been shown in this communication , a small change of concentration may produce a great change in the rate of solution .
There appears , therefore , every reason to suppose that the solution of hydrogen by palladium is a phenomenon quite analogous to the cases of sorption of gases by other solids , such as char and celluloid , which have already been examined by various authors .
Conclusion .
The rate of solution of hydrogen by palladium is not a simple function of the concentration of gas in the metal .
The rate curve consist of two portions except in the case of palladium black ) , which have been interpreted as referring to solution in two different forms of the metal .
The smooth rate curve for palladium black is taken to mean the almost complete absence of one of these forms .
Note on Functional Equation employed by Sir George Stokes .
By Sir JAMES STIRLING , F.B.S. ( Received February 24 , \mdash ; Read March 12 , 1914 .
) 1 .
In a paper by Sir George Stokes " " On the Intensity of the Light Reflected from or Transmitted through a Pile of Plates , author forms and solves two functional equations , viz. :\mdash ; .
( 2 ) The symbols represent , as was required by the object of the paper , positive integers ; but in the course of the investigation he deals with them as continuous variables , solves the equations ( and 2 ) on that footing , and finally verifies the equations when are integers .
The two equations are treated as independent , and the results are thus expressed , Published in 'Boy .
Soc. Proc. ' for 1@62 ; his 'Math .
and Phys. Papers , ' , 149 .
VOL. XC.\mdash ; A. 238 Sir J. Stirling .
Note on a where are constants .
In what follows will be taken to be ordinary continuous variables .
2 .
The main object of the paper of Sir George Stokes is physical , not mathematical ; and the purpose of the present note is to call to some mathematical points not explicitly dealt with by him , viz. :\mdash ; ( a ) The two functional equations are not independent , equation being capable of being deduced from equation ( 1 ) ; The results ( 3 ) may be arrived at from equation ( 1 ) alone , and constitute the general solution of that equation .
No such general solution of equation ( 2 ) has been obtained .
3 .
If equation ( 1 ) be differentiated with respect to , the result , after some obvious reductions , is .
( 4 ) If and be interchanged in the last equation , the , ( 5 ) so that ) , a constant , or .
( 6 ) Hence [ by ( 4 ) ] [ by ( 6 ) ] and therefore which is equation ( 2 ) , with am ambiguity of sign .
This ambiguity also arises in the course of Sir George Stokes ' investigation and is dealt with by him .
It follows that every value of , which satisfies equation ( satisfies also equation ; but it is not necessarily true that every value of which satisfies equation also satisfies equation ( 1 ) .
4 .
If now in equation ( 1 ) , and that derived from it by interchanging there be substituted for , their values A ) , A ) , it appears that A A which , when multiplied on both sides by ) , becomes or ; .
whatever may be ; and consequently , in general , the value of is zero .
, The results are thus deduced from equation ( 1 ) alone , without recourse to olutionequation ( of the two functional equations was proposed by Sir George .
Stokes in a Smith 's Prize Examination Paper for 1860 , $ and was introduced .
as an example into Boole 's 'Finite Differences ' ; but the values of ) and given in that work are deficient in generality .
This defect , it is right to say , is not attributable to the late Professor Boole .
it .
See ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 4 , p. 149 , equation 10 ) .
: See ' Math. and Phys. Papers , ' vol. 5 , p. 334 , Question 14 .
: VOL. XC.\mdash ; A.

