Some Phenomena of Magnetic Disturbances at Kew .
579 but more delicate observations would be necessary before the oscillations , if they exist , can be definitely identified .
9 .
Incidentally the method provides us with the elastic constants for the glasses used , for ?
;/ E can be calculated when A is known : and if we take Poisson 's ratio to be 1/ 4 ( which is very nearly Amagat 's value for the ratio in glass ) , we find E. We have O 935 .
UY 3199 .
* ... 4-28 xlO"10 2-69 x 10"10 E/ 17 ... 2-34 xlO9 3-73 x 109-i E ... 585 xlO6 932 x 106 J \ grammes weight J per sq .
cm .
10 .
In conclusion , I desire to express my best thanks to Prof. F. T. Trouton , F.E.S. , and to the Staff of the Physical Laboratory of University College , where the work has been carried out , for their kind assistance and courtesy .
Some Phenomena of Magnetic Disturbances at Kew .
By Charles Chree , Sc. D. , LL. D. , F.E.S. , Superintendent of the Observatory Department of the National Physical Laboratory .
( Eeceived January 5 , \#151 ; Eead February 10 , 1910 .
) ( From the National Physical Laboratory .
) ( Abstract .
) A recent paper* discussed the diurnal inequality of Kew magnetic \#166 ; declination derived from 209 of the most highly disturbed days of the eleven years 1890 to 1900 .
The present paper discusses the corresponding phenomena for the same days in the other magnetic elements .
The most prominent features of disturbed days are the irregular nature of magnetic \#166 ; changes , and the frequency of large oscillations .
These more obvious features have hitherto engrossed attention .
It is found , however , that the irregular changes on disturbed days are accompanied by large regular diurnal changes , which are specially striking in vertical force .
In declination and horizontal force the range of the regular diurnal inequality on disturbed days is in the average month of the year about double that on quiet days , but in vertical force the former range is fully four times the latter .
Disturbance affects the type as well as the range of the diurnal inequality .
The former influence is * ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 208 , p. 205 .
Dr. C. Chree .
Some Phenomena of [ Jan. 5 , comparatively small in horizontal force and the component to geographical north , larger in declination and the component to geographical west , and largest of all in vertical force .
On quiet days the characteristic feature of the vertical force inequality is the fall in the forenoon to the minimum about 11 a.m. and the rapid rise in the early afternoon .
Disturbed days , however , approach to a type in which there is a minimum about 4 a.m.\#151 ; near the principal barometric minimum for the day\#151 ; and a maximum at from 4 to 6 p.m. according to the season .
The day rise and the night fall are about equally rapid .
On disturbed days the shorter period Fourier " waves " in the diurnal inequality for V become of reduced importance relative to the 24-hour wave , and this wave has its phase some four hours earlier than on quiet days .
Vertical force inequalities from the disturbed days of the four sunspot maximum years 1892\#151 ; 1895 show a considerably larger range than those from the whole 209 days , and their phase angles depart more from the phase angles for the quiet days of the eleven years .
The question of the seat of the forces to which the regular diurnal inequality is due turns largely on the vertical force phenomena , and it is thus clear that different results may be reached according to the extent to which the disturbance element enters into the data employed .
Dr. Schuster , employing results from 1870 , a year of exceptionally large sunspot frequency , and Dr. Fritsche , employing data from miscellaneous years , have reached notably different conclusions .
The results of the present paper emphasise the importance of securing as great uniformity as possible in the data from different stations .
It is suggested that three sets of diurnal inequalities might be published , representing respectively quiet days , highly disturbed days and intermediate days .
If the diurnal inequality is due , as Dr. Schuster concludes , to electric currents associated with the movements of the upper atmosphere , the increased conductivity of these regions due to increased ionisation may account for the increased amplitude of the regular diurnal inequality at sunspot maximum , or on days of magnetic disturbance .
But it is not obvious how it can account for large differences in phase angles between quiet and disturbed days , or for the difference that manifests itself in the effects of disturbance on different magnetic elements .
It is possible that the variation with altitude in the electric conductivity of the air is altered , so that appreciable effects are experienced on disturbed days from electric currents in layers which are normally ineffective .
Thus differences between the upper air movements at different heights might make their presence felt .
If magnetic storms were of approximately constant length\#151 ; under 24 hours \#151 ; and followed on the whole a similar course , then the existence of a regular diurnal inequality on disturbed days might mean that storms 1910 .
] Magnetic Disturbances at Kew .
commenced more often at one hour of the day than another , and not that the forces modifying the nature of the phenomena were largely dependent on local time .
Influences of this kind do not improbably have some effect .
The time , however , during which magnetic conditions remain highly disturbed is very variable .
Of the 209 days included in the paper only 64 were days of isolated disturbance ; the remaining 145 were all preceded or succeeded by days also classified as disturbed .
There are several other reasons for concluding that the diurnal inequalities discussed in the paper indicate in the main a true daily variation , independent of the stage that the magnetic disturbance has reached .
An inspection of individual vertical force disturbances of short period showed that when these occurred in the late afternoon there was almost invariably a rise in the force , whereas if they occurred in the early morning there was a fall .
It was found , however , that the non-cyclic changes experienced on disturbed days did depend in a marked way on the stage reached by the disturbance .
When a disturbance lasts for two days , or more , the usual phenomenon is for westerly declination , horizontal force and vertical force to fall during the first day and rise during the second .
The fall on the first day predominates in the case of the horizontal force , the rise on the second day in the case of the vertical force .
In ion-emission theories of magnetic storms\#151 ; such as that of Prof. Kr .
Birkeland\#151 ; the question'of the height and extent of the hypothetical electric discharge turns largely on the vertical force phenomena .
The fact that so large a proportion of the vertical force range during magnetic storms proves to represent a regular diurnal inequality seems not unlikely to prove a crucial test for such theories .
2 s VOL LXXXIII.\#151 ; A.

