Fossil Flora of Culm Measures of Devon , and Age of Beds .
95 paragraph that the greater the disturbed solar polar regions , the greater the difference between the magnetic frequency at the equinoxes : and solstices .
Conclusions .
The conclusions arrived at in the above paper may be briefly stated as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
The seasonal variation in the frequency of magnetic storms and aurorae depends on the positions of the sun 's axis in relation to the earth . .
2 .
The epochs of the greatest inclinations of the sun 's axis towards or away from the earth , or in other words the greatest exposure of the N. or S. solar polar regions to the earth during a year , correspond to those of greatest magnetic and auroral frequency .
3 .
The epochs ( groups of years ) , when the solar polar regions are most disturbed , synchronise with those when the excess of the equinoctial over the solstitial frequency of magnetic storms is greatest .
" The Fossil Flora of the Culm Measures of North-west Devon , and the Palseobotanical Evidence with regard to the Age of the Beds .
" By E. A. Newell Arber , M.A. , F.L.S. , F.G.S. , Trinity College , Cambridge , University Demonstrator in Palseobotany .
Communicated by Professor McKenny Hughes , F.R.S. Received May 30 , \#151 ; Read June 9 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The carboniferous rocks which occupy an area of 1200 square miles in Devon , Somerset , and Cornwall , are generally known as the Culm Measures , a name first applied to them by Sedgwick and Murchison in 1838 ; the word u culm " being an ancient Devonshire term for the impure coal , which is confined to one horizon in these beds in the neighbourhood of Bideford .
Sedgwick and Murchison , in their classic memoir on the physical structure of Devonshire ( 1840 ) , instituted a twofold division of these rocks , the Upper and the Lower Culm Measures , and this classification is maintained here .
At the present time , our knowledge of the Lower Culm Measures is on an altogether different footing to any which we possess of the Upper division .
This is largely due to the work of Messrs. Hind and Fox ( 1895 ) , who showed that this division is of Lower Carboniferous age .
The Upper Culm Measures , which form by far the greater thickness of the Devonshire carboniferous rocks , are , however , of Upper Carboniferous age .
This was first proved by De la Beche ( 1838 ) , on the evidence of the plant remains of the beds VOL. LXXIV .
H 96 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
Fossil Flora of the [ May 30 9 near Bideford , and this conclusion was confirmed and maintained by \#166 ; Sedgwick and Murchison .
The present paper is an attempt to extend our knowledge of the \#166 ; distribution of Carboniferous plants in Devonshire , and also to deter-1 mine the horizons in the Upper Carboniferous , which are represented \#166 ; by the Upper Culm Measures .
The task of the collection of well-preserved plant remains from these I rocks has been exceedingly difficult , partly on account of the severe I crushing and folding which the strata have undergone , and partly I because , with one exception , the .coal or culm is no longer worked in I the district .
The best-preserved impressions are only found in close a association with the culm , and , at the present time , few traces of I former culm workings remain , and these are fast disappearing .
Thus , a the specimens described here , are in some respects unique , and , in many 1 cases , only a single example of the species is known .
The coal or " culm " forms a number of inconstant bands of no great 1 thickness , which run from the western coast-line through Bideford for I a distance of 12 miles to the east , near Chittlehampton .
These bands !
are practically confined to one horizon , and this is one of the very few I horizons which can be recognised in the great series of the sandstones 1 and shales of the Upper Culm Measures by its lithological character . !
In the present paper , attention has been confined to the flora of these | beds .
Several species of plant remains have been already recorded by 1 De la Beche , Sedgwick and Murchison , and T. M. Hall , and , of most I of these , further specimens have been collected , and , in addition , a many records new to Devonshire have been made .
Among the latter | may be mentioned the first British record of Schlehani , 1 Stur , a frond of common occurrence in the Coal Measures of the I Continent , and a leaf new to Britain , which somewhat recalls Dawson 's 1 genus , Megalopteris , chiefly known from the Coal Measures of Canada a and the United States .
Determinations from the Bideford District .
Equisetales .
Catamites ( Calamitina ) undulatus , Sternb .
Catamites ( Eucalamites)ramosus , Artis .
Catamites ( Stylocalamites)Brong .
Catamites ( Calamitina ) , Sternb .
Catamites sp. ( external surface ) .
Annutaria radiata , Brong .
Annularia galioides ( L. and H. ) .
Calamoctadus eqaisetiformis ( Schl .
) .
Calamocladus charceformis ( Sternb .
) .
Calamostachys longifolia ( Weiss ) .
Pinnularia sp. *1904.1 Culm Measures of Devon , and the Age of the Beds .
97 Sphenophyllales .
Sphenophyllum cuneifolium ( Sternb .
) .
Cycadofilices .
Neuropteris obliqua(Brong .
) .
Neuropteris Schlehani , Stur .
Aletliopteris Serli ( Brong .
) .
Alethopterislonchitica ( Schl .
) .
Filicales ( ?
) .
Mariopteris muricata ( Schl .
) .
Urnatopteris tenella ( Brong .
) .
Benaultia footneri(Marrat ) .
Renaultia schatzlarensis ( Stur ) ( ?
) .
Megaloptens ( ?
) sp. Lycopodiales .
Lepidodendron aculeatum , Sternb .
Lepidodendron obovatum , Sternb .
Lepidodendron fusiforme , Corda .
Lepidophloios acerosus ( L. and H. ) .
Sigillaria scutellata , Brong .
- Sigillaria tessellata , Brong .
Stigmaria fieoides ( Sternb .
) .
Cordaitales .
Cordaites ( Artisia ) sp. Ineertce sedis .
Trigonocarpus Parkinsoni , Brong .
The opinions which have been held with .regard to the age of the Upper Culm Measures of Devon , and the horizons which they represent , may be briefly summarised as follows:\#151 ; De la Beche , and !
Sedgwick and Murchison regarded these beds , as has been already stated , as the equivalents of the Upper Carboniferous in other British 1 Coal-fields , and by the year 1840 this conclusion was generally ; accepted .
There appears to have been some doubt , however , in more recent times as to the exact subdivision of this great series to which the Bideford beds should be referred .
Townshend Hall ( 1866\#151 ; 1878 ) regarded them , on lithological grounds , as the equivalents of the Millstone Grit .
Pengelly ( 1867 ) , and Murchison ( 1872 ) referred them to the Coal Measures , and Mr. H. B. Woodward ( 1887 ) doubtfully to the Lower Coal Measures .
Mr. Ussher ( 1888\#151 ; 1901 ) has not expressed !
any decided views on this subject ; he appears to be inclined to j support Hall 's view that these beds are equivalent to the Millstone Grit in other areas .
We see , therefore , that previous conclusions , based on grounds r other than palaeontological , have apparently not been put forward I with much confidence .
98 Mr. E. A. Newell Arber .
Fossil Flora of the [ May 80 , !
It may be also noticed that there would seem to be a tendency at I the present time in certain quarters to regard the Culm Measures as essentially a Lower Carboniferous series of deposits .
Professor j Hull's* ( 1881 ) opinion that " the flora of the 'culm ' " belongs " toi the Lower Carboniferous series of Devonshire " is a case in point , i This view is not , however , shared by all British geologists .
It has arisen partly from the fact that the older literature has to some extent been lost sight of , and partly from the great interest aroused by the work of Messrs. Hind and Fox , which has brought into special prominence that portion of the Culm Measures which is of Lower Carboniferous age .
We have also in recent years gained a more intimate acquaintance with the flora of the so-called " culm " or " kulm " of Germany , Austria , and elsewhere on the Continent ; deposits of Lower Carboniferous age , as shown by the character of their fossil remains .
In recent years we have come to know more of the distribution of ?
fossil plants in the Coal Measures of this country , chiefly as the ' result of Mr. Kidston 's researches , and it is now possible to distinguish clearly a certain number of horizons in the Upper Carboniferous .
1 During Upper Carboniferous and Permian times , periods which belong | to the same botanical epoch , the general character of the flora in its \ broad outlines remained constant .
Yet detailed study has shown that 1 it is possible to detect the gradual changes which took place during j this interval , and the underlying principle of zoning the Carboniferous | system depends upon the recognition of definite periods in which these changes became more marked .
Thus the general character 1 of the flora of the Bideford district is identical with that found i elsewhere in Britain in Middle Coal Measure times .
The majority 1 of the species recorded here are known to occur in both the jj Middle and Lower Coal Measures .
But there are also others , such as 1 Alethopteris Serli , and Calamoeladus char cefor mis , which are unknown j from the Lower Coal Measures , and others again , such as J tessellata and Neuropteris obliqua , which are markedly more abundant in j the Middle than the Lower Coal Measures .
In other words , the 1 change in the general character of the flora of the Upper Carboniferous , 1 as traced from the base to the summit , is already marked on this 1 horizon by the presence of species which are not found in the lower 1 beds .
On the other hand , there is an entire absence of certain genera 1 and species , especially of the genus which are character- j istic in 'this country of higher horizons such as the Upper Coal | Measures .
Thus the horizon in the Upper Carboniferous represented by 1 that portion of the Upper Culm Measures in which the coal or culm occurs in 1 the Bideford district is equivalent to the Middle Coal Measures in other 1 * ' Coal Fields of G-reafc Britain , ' 4th edit .
, p. 64 .
1904.1 Culm Measures of Devon , and the Age of the Beds .
99 British coal-fields ; a higher horizon than has so far been assigned to | these beds .
There is also evidence of a different nature which points to the I conclusion that the Lower Coal Measures are also represented in I DeVon .
In beds at Instow , some 2J miles to the north of Bideford , . ?
which are admitted to occupy a lower horizon than those at Bideford , fish and .
Goniatite remains have been recorded by the late Townshend { Hall ( 1876 ) .
The fish remains are estuarine , and belong to the \ following species:\#151 ; Ccelacanthus elegans , Newb .
Elonichthysaitkeni , Traq .
The Goniatites are as follows:\#151 ; Gastrioceras carbonanum ( von Buch ) .
Gastrioceras Listen ( Martin ) .
Most of these species are , I believe , characteristic of the Lower Coal 1 Measures , although not confined to that horizon .
With regard to the higher beds of the Culm Measures\#151 ; the Eggesf ord Grits in Mr. Ussher 's classification\#151 ; there is no evidence of horizon at present , but it is hoped that the examination of these rocks which is | shortly to be undertaken will be successful in solving this problem by ; means of the plant remains which are known to occur in this series .
Lastly it may be pointed out that the use of the term " culm " or " kulm , " with regard to certain series of deposits in Germany and Austria , is particularly unfortunate , for these beds are entirely of I Lower Carboniferous age , as is shown by the character of their plant remains , now well known from the researches pf Stur , Goppert , \ Potoni4 , and others .
Although Lower Carboniferous rocks of great interest occur in Devon and the adjacent counties , they form only a small fraction of the thickness of the Culm Measures which , as a [ whole , are essentially Upper , and not Lower Carboniferous in age , and [ to which , in part at least , the ordinary nomenclature applied to other [ British coal-fields has been shown here to be applicable .
I am under great obligations to many geologists for assistance during the course of this work , obligations which will be acknowledged at length in the paper .
I cannot refrain , however , from expressing my great indebtedness to Mr. Inkermann Rogers , of Bideford , for the time and patience which he has devoted to the collection of plant remains with a view to helping forward the work .

