The Parent-rock of the Diamond South Africa .
" TJie Parent-rock of the Diamond in South Africa .
" By Professor T. G. Bonne v , D.Sc .
, LL. D. , V.P.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1899 .
So much has been written on the occurrence of diamonds in South Africa that a very few words may suffice as preface to this communication .
References to many papers on the subject are given in ' The Genesis and Matrix of the Diamond ' ( 1897 ) , by the late Professor H. Carvill Lewis , * and others have been published since that date . !
It may suffice to say that the diamond , first discovered in 1867 in gravels on the Orange River , was found three years later in certain peculiar deposits , which occur locally in a region where the dominant rock is a dark shale , sometimes interbedded with hard grits , or associated with igneous rocks allied to basalt .
These deposits occupy areas irregularly circular in outline , and bearing a general resemblance to volcanic necks .
The diamantiferous material , near the surface , is .soft , yellowish in colour , and obviously much decomposed ; at a greater depth it assumes a dull greenish to bluish tint , and becomes harder .
At the well-known De Beers Mine , near Kimberley , the works in 1898 had been carried to a depth of about 1,500 feet , and the diamantiferous material , for at least the last 100 yards , was not less hard than an ordinary limestone .
It has a brecciated aspect , the dark , very minutely granular , matrix being composed mainly of serpentine ( about four-fifths of the whole ) , and of a carbonate of lime ( with some magnesia and a little iron ) .
In this matrix are embedded grains of the following minerals :\#151 ; Olivine , enstatite , smaragdite , chrome-diopside ( omphacite of some authors ) , a brown mica , garnet ( mostly pyrope , but more than one variety observed ) , magnetite , chromite , ilmenite , with several other minerals much more sparsely distributed .
Rock fragments are also present , variable in size , but commonly not exceeding about an inch in diameter , as well as in quantity .
These , occasionally , but not generally , are rather abundant .
In some cases they are chips of the neighbouring black shale , but in others they are greyish-coloured with somewhat of a porcelain aspect .
The latter are generally sub-angular in form and externally banded or bordered with a darker tint ; crystalline rocks have also been noticed , though these appear to be far from common , such as granite , diorite , and varieties of # Edited by the present writer .
t Jules Gamier , ' Geol .
Soc. South Africa Trans. , ' 1897 , p. 91 ; H. S. Ilarger , ibid. , p. 124 .
See also W. G. Atherstone , 1896 , p. 76 ; L. De Launaj , Count .
Rend .
, vol. 125 ( 1897 ) , p. 335 .
The last author , in ' Les Diamants da Cap ( Paris , 189/ ) , gives a very full account of the mines , but an even better one will be found in Max Bauer , ' Edelsteinkunde ' ( Leipzig , 1896 , p. 208 ) .
s 2 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
eelogite.* As to the genesis of the diamond , more than one opinion has been expressed .
Professor Lewis regarded the matrix as a porphy-ritic- form of peridotite , once a lava , now serpentinised , f in which the diamond had been formed by the action of the molten rock on some carbonaceous material ( probably the Karoo shale ) .
Others regarded the matrix as a true breccia , comparing it with the agglomerates in volcanic rocks .
But among the latter , some thought that the diamond had been produced in situ by the action of steam or hot water in a subsequent solfataric stage of the volcano , while others ( including myself ) held that it had been formed , like the garnets , pyroxenes , \amp ; c. , in some deep-seated holocrystalline mass which had been shattered by explosions.^ The specimens which I am about to describe were obtained at the Newlands Mines , West Griqualand ; from 40 to 42 miles from Kimberley , almost due N.W. Here the workmen occasionally came across well-rounded boulder-like masses of rather coarsely crystalline rock , studded with garnets , which are sometimes about a foot in diameter .
Specimens of these were found or obtained by Mr. G , .
Trubenbach , the London manager of the Newlands Diamond Mine Company , during a visit to the mines in 1897 .
His interest had already been aroused by picking up a specimen , presently to be noticed , in which some small diamonds occurred , very closely associated with a garnet ; so the boulders were brought back by him to England .
On careful examination a small diamond was detected on the surface of one of these .
On breaking the boulder others were revealed .
The most interesting fragment was sent by Mr. Trubenbach to Sir W. Crookes , who showed it to me .
Examination with a hand lens convinced me that the rock could not be a concretion of the " blue ground , " but was truly holocrystalline and allied to the eclogites .
Sir W. Crookes generously waived his own claim to study the specimen , and obtained for me permission from Mr. Trubenbach to have slices cut from it .
I gladly take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude to both gentlemen ; to Sir W. Crookes , for allowing me .to carry out this interesting investigation , and to Mr. Trubenbach for his great liberality in placing at my disposal a considerable suite of specimens ( including other boulders ) from the Newlands mines , and for the trouble which he has taken in affording me the necessary information .
* A W. Stelzner , ' Sitzungsber .
u. Abhandl .
der Isis ' ( Dresden ) , 1893 ( April ) , p. 71 calls ' attention to the fact that these show signs of attrition and that they range in size from a few cubic millimetres upwards , being sometimes large boulders .
Among the materials ( at Kimberley ) he mentions both granite and eelogite .
f For the rock itself he proposed the name " kimberlite .
" + in other words , that the volcano ( as occasionally has happened ) had ejected little or no lava or scoria , discharging only steam and hot water , with shattered rock This view is held by Max Bauer , in ' Edelsteinkunde , ' p. 22o , which , however , 1 had not seen when this paper was written .
The Parent-rock of the Diamond South Africa .
225 Prior to the discovery , just mentioned , one or two instances had occurred at the De Beers Mine of a diamond apparently enclosed by or projecting into a pyrope .
One such , the garnet being the size of a rather large pea , is in the collection at Freiberg ( Saxony ) , to which it was presented in 1892.* The specimen found by Mr. Trubenbach at the Newlands mine , was a piece of blue ground , with a pyrope projecting from one angle .
A small , apparently broken , diamond seems embedded at the top .
The others ( five ) are well crystallised , two on one side , three almost in contact on the other .
The pyrope ( which has a kelyphite rim ) seems to be indented by two , but to have once included the others , as they are in contact with the unaltered mineral .
We were thus brought so far as to associate the diamond with the pyrope ; though this proved no more than the presence of garnets in the parent rock of the diamond , and thus made the eclogite ( already known to occur ) highly probable , for , as observed by Professor R. Beckf , the specimen itself is blue ground .
In confirmation of his statement I pulverised a fragment , + and find that the powder corresponds with the matrix of the blue ground when similarly treated .
The latest discoveries enable me to complete the chain of evidence .
Edogite Boulders containing Diamonds .
The first named , that containing several diamonds , is a fragment ( perhaps from a quarter to a third ) of a boulder , which probably was ellipsoidal in shape , two of the axes being nearly equal and the third distinctly the longest .
We may infer that it was rounded from a roughly rectangular block , since the curved surfaces are slightly flatter in the middle parts .
The axial lengths in the fragment ( prior to removing a piece from one end ) were approximately 4 in .
by 3 in .
by 2 in .
The rock is coarsely granular , apparently composed of two green-coloured minerals , one darker than the other ( possibly only different states of a single mineral ) , and of rich resin-pink coloured garnets , varying in size from a hemp seed to a pea , with slightly irregular distribution .
The outer surface of the boulder , except for a very small " step " on one side , is smooth , the garnets barely , if at all , projecting .
The latter are covered with a rather soft , dark skin , sometimes slightly thicker than the thumb nail , which often has partly fallen off .
This , as can be seen on the broken surfaces , becomes less conspicuous in the inner part of the boulder , and is sometimes invisible to the unaided eye .
* A. W. Stelzner , ' Sitzungber .
der Isis zu Dresden , ' 1893 , s. 85 , and It .
Beck , 'Zeitscli .
fur praktische Geologie , ' 1898 ( May ) , p. 163 .
f Ut supra .
X I could not advise Mr. Trubenbacli to bare a slice cut from the specimen , as I feared it might be injured , but he kindly detached a little fragment from the opposite end to that named above , which I have thus examined .
Prof. T. G. Bonney .
Two small diamonds are exposed on the curved outer surface , one about half the other about one-fifth of an inch from the edge of the cross fracture .
On the latter surface , nearly an inch below the last named three small diamonds appear to lie in a line touching one another , and near them are two others , * all four within a space about three-quarters of an inch square ; an eighth diamond is about an inch and a half away ( on the same face ) ; a ninth , about one-fifth of an inch from the top edge ; and a tenth occurs on the larger cross-fractured surface , but near to the edge of the other one .
These diamonds are octahedra in form , generally with stepped faces\#151 ; one , at least , apparently twinned\#151 ; perfectly colourless , with brilliant lustre ; the largest being quite 0T5 inch from apex to apex ; the smallest not exceeding 005 inch .
All seem to be embedded in the green part of the rock .
As the outer part of the boulder looks rather more decomposed than the inner , I had a piece removed from one end , thus enabling me to study the mass to a depth of more than an inch from the surface , and examined a strip , about 4 inches long , in a series of five slices .
The late Professor Lewis has given , in the volume already mentioned , so full an account of the minerals which occur in the " blue ground , " ' that it will be needless on the present occasion to do more than refer to his descriptions , !
only calling attention to any variations in the mineral constituents and their association in these eclogites .
These constituents are\#151 ; 1 .
( \#171 ; ) Garnet ( Pyrope).\#151 ; In the slice these appear a light tawny or yellowish-red tint , retaining this tint ( though much lighter ) under the microscope . !
They are generally clear , with frequent and irregular cracks , but are occasionally traversed by wavy bands of minute enclosures of a pale brown filmy mineral , which is rather irregular in outline , very feebly pleochroic , and gives with crossed nicols fairly bright polarisation tints .
Similar minerals sometimes have formed along the cracks .
They are probably mica , or possibly chlorite , and indicate incipient decomposition .
The garnets towards the outside of the boulder , as already said , are enveloped in a " skin , " and the microscope shows that it usually exists inside , though there it is thinner .
In the former case it is generally browner in colour and more distinctly crystalline , corresponding in cleavage , pleochroism , \amp ; e. , with a mica of the biotite group ; in the latter it is greener and more filmy with an aggregate habit and seems to project into the garnet .
I regard it as due * It is possible that these two form a twin crystal , but I think they are separate .
As the point is unimportant , I have not attempted to clear away the matrix .
f We must also not forget the paper by Professor Maskelyne and Dr. Flight 0 Quart .
Journ. Geol .
Soc. , ' vol. 30 , p. 406 ) , in which several of these minerals are described , analysed , and identified .
In fact the authors ascertained everything that was possible with the materials then obtainable .
I Unless it is expressly stated , the use of a 1-inch objective may be assumed .
The Parent-rock of the Diamond in South Africa .
227 Fia .
1.\#151 ; Section of the diamond-bearing eclogite .
Pyropes with narrow kelyphite borders , and chrome diopside intercrystallised .
The clinopinacoidal cleavage of latter visible in the lower part of the section .
to decomposition , a form of the well known kelyphite rim , sometimes a mica , sometimes a chlorite , possibly now and then associated with a little minute hornblende .
In a few cases a " rim " is brown in the outer part and green within .
The constituents tend to a parallel rather than a radial grouping .
The garnets occasionally contain minute branching root-like enclosures grouped in bands .
Though these act on polarised light , I regard them as empty cavities , and attribute this to diffraction .
( b ) Clirome-cliopside.\#151 ; The mineral described under that name by Professor Lewis , and referred to by others as omphacite or sahlite .
The individuals are sometimes about a quarter of an inch long .
In thin slices it is a pale dullish green colour , inclining to olive ; under the microscope , a pale sea-green , with a trace of pleochroism .
It has one strongly marked cleavage , not however nearly so close as in ordinary diallage , and a second weaker , sometimes approximately at right angles to it.* On examining flakes , obtained by crushing , I find the strong cleavage to be clinopinacoidal and the other probably basal , * One may give a general idea of their relative importance by comparing them to the columns and cross-joints in some basalts .
228 Prof. T. G. Bonney .
and obtain on a clinopinacoid an extinction of 35 ' with a prism edge .
It is in fact identical with the pyroxene described by Professor Lewis* as chrome-diopside .
In it ( though rare ) are small rounded enclosures of a greenish mineral aggregate much blackened with opacite .
I regard them as alteration products of a ferriferous olivine .
This diopside , at the exterior and along cracks , is .
often converted into a minutely granular to fibrous mineral , which gives a " dusty " aspect to that part of the crystal , when viewed with transmitted light , and a whitish-green one with reflected light .
This often terminates in a minutely acicular fringe , piercing the original diopside .
Its grains occasionally are a little larger , showing a cleavage , dull green in colour , fairly pleochroic , and having the extinction of hornblende .
A process of secondary change , as in uralite , is no do"ubt indicated .
Now and then a tiny film of brown mica occurs in this part or even in a crack in the diopside .
It is this alteration product which gives the mottled aspect mentioned above as visible to the unaided eye , so this is not indicative of a third important constituent in the original rock .
In one of the slices the mica just named attains a larger size ( about 003 inch across ) , has a fairly idiomorphic ( hexagonal prism ) outline , and is not restricted to the margin of the garnet .
In this case it is generally associated with calcite , f which it tends to surround , and that in one place encloses a radiating acicular mineral ( la zeolite ) ; in another the calcite , or some other carbonate , is mixed with a serpentinous material .
Distinct granules of iron oxide are practically absent from the slices , though here and there it may be indicated by some opacite .
I have not found spinel , or rutile , or zircon , or pseudobrookite .
In fact , putting aside the diamonds , the rock in its unaltered condition was a coarsely holo-crystalline mixture of chrome-diopside and garnet , with a few small enclosures of olivine , in other words , it was a variety of eclogite and of igneous origin .
J 2 .
A fragment ( probably about one quarter ) of a flattish ovoid boulder.\#151 ; The two broken surfaces , which are nearly at right angles , measure 5 and 5|- inches , roughly , and it is about 3-| inches high .
The rock very closely resembles the one just described , except that mica occurs rather oftener and in larger flakes ; perhaps the garnets ( here also not quite regularly distributed ) are slightly more numerous .
The outer # Loc .
tit .
, p. 21 .
t From the facts I think it probably of secondary origin .
It reminds me sometimes of the brown mica produced by contact mel amorphism .
J I am , of course , aware that eclogite , in the past , has been regarded by some geologists as a metamorphic rock .
-Apart from the fact that several rocks once assigned to this class are now , with good reason , regarded as igneous , I have had several opportunities of studying eclogite , and have no doubt as to its origin .
Take away the alkali from a magma with the chemical composition of a diorite , and the result would be garnets in place of felspar , an eclogite .
The Parent-rock of the Diamond South Africa .
229 surface is not quite so well preserved , though enough remains to show that it also has been smooth , and a few thin veins of a white mineral ( calcite V ) traverse the rock .
On this surface , near the meeting of the two fractures , and exposed by the removal of a little material ( i.e. it might originally have been just hidden ) is a diamond ( octahedron ) , apparently about 0-1 inch in diameter .
On one side it rests against a pyrope , the adjacent surface of which is incurved , the two minerals being parted by the dull green-coloured kelyphite rim Fia .
2.\#151 ; Garnet and diamond ( diagrammatic , nearly twice natural size ) .
( 1 ) Diamond , ( 2 ) garnet , ( 3 ) kelypliite rim .
-of the latter , which is about 0-03 inch in thickness .
Thin sections of this boulder correspond almost exactly with those from the other , the garnets showing precisely the same tints , though traces of a cleavage , ( roughly parallel throughout ) are perceptible on close inspection , and are distinct under the microscope .
In garnet such a structure commonly indicates pressure , and the general parallelism accords with this .explanation , but the other constituents show no signs of crushing .
The " kelyphite " rims to the garnets are perhaps slightly broader and the brown mica passes into a green ( chloritic ?
) mineral , and occupies cracks in the garnet a little more frequently , but as before the constituents tend to lie parallel rather than radially .
One or two of the diopsides show fine oscillatory twinning .
The cracks are occupied with -calcite or some allied carbonate .
There is no real difference between this eclogite and the last-named one .
Eclogite Boulders w Diamonds .
3 .
Part of a boulder , which must have been about a foot in .diameter ( found at 250 ft. level ) .
It presents a general resemblance to the rocks described above , with , however , the possibility of a second green constituent .
This is not confirmed on microscopic examination .
The rock consists , practically , of pyrope and diopside , as already described , except that negative crystals are rather unusually conspicuous in the latter .
Into the details of these , as the point seems not to have any bearing on the present investigation , I do not purpose to enter .
4 .
A fragment , more irregular in form than the others , measures very roughly , about 7 in .
by 4f in .
by 3-| in .
It retains a good piece of the outer surface , whkh , though now a little corroded , was once Prof. T. G. Bonney .
smooth .
The rock , which is rather decomposed and crumbly , consists chiefly of three minerals : garnet , not quite so large , paler and more pink in colour than the last-named ; an emerald-green pyroxene , and a yellowish or greenish-grey , platy to fibrous mineral , suggestive of a second more altered pyroxene .
In thin slices the paler and pinker tint of the garnet is very perceptible , as well as the tendency to a rude and generally parallel cleavage .
But we find in it , under the microscope , a few microlithic enclosures , of an apparently colourless mineral , which occurs in long prisms crossed at about 70 ' by an occasional transverse cleavage , and extinguishing at an angle of about 26 ' with the longer *edge .
Many of the cracks exhibit slight decomposition , starting from them , and are sometimes occupied by calcite .
The pyroxene , under the microscope , hardly differs from the one already described , except that the green tint is slightly richer and one or two crystals contain the small dark brown negative crystals , common in hypersthene and diallage .
The dominant cleavage , as before , is along the clinopinacoid.* The third mineral proves to be an altered enstatite , but I leave the details for the present , as it is better preserved in another rock .
A fourth constituent is also present , but more sparingly , viz. , a pale brown mica , only moderately pleochroic ( phlogophite 1 ) .
It occurs generally in plates , averaging about 0T inch long .
The minerals appear to have formed in the following order : ( a ) garnet , ( b ) diopside , ( c ) mica , ( d ) enstatite .
As before , iron oxides are very inconspicuous ; there may be a grain or two ( small ) of ser-pentinised olivine .
The marked presence of enstatite distinguishes this rock from the others , but it differs from the eulysites by the substitution of that mineral for olivine , and so links those rocks to the more ordinary eclogites .
The occurrence of a little mica indicates the presence of a small amount of an alkali in the magma .
If necessary we may name it newlandite , but personally I should prefer to call it an enstatite-eclogite , for I think the coinage of fresh titles more often a bane than a boon to science .
5 .
This boulder is almost perfect , except that the general flatness of one side indicates either traces of an old fracture or considerable loss by crumbling .
The surface has been smooth , but it has suffered from unequal weathering of the minerals .
Its girth , in three directions at right angles , is approximately 20J , in .
by 19| in .
by 17 J in .
It appears only to differ from the last-described in having its garnets a shade more purple , and in an approach to a banded structure ; the diopside being rather more abundant in a middle zone , the garnet in one , the enstatite in the other of the outer zones .
Being satisfied that it is merely a * As noticed by Professor Lewis , ut supra , p. 22 , in the diopside the prism cleavage has practically disappeared , and a clinopinacoidal cleavage replaces the ortliopinacoidal usual in diallago .
The Parent-rock of the Diamond in South Africa , 231 variety of the last-described rock , I have preferred to leave it as an intact boulder .
6 .
The next fragment , measuring about 3 in .
by 2-\ in .
by 2 in .
, and retaining part of its smooth outer surface , is labelled " found in the yellow ground of No. 2 mine* 50 feet deep .
" Though it is much more decomposed than the others , the purplish garnet , the emerald-green pyroxene , the altered enstatite ( here very rotten ) , and a flake or two of phlogophite ( ?
) are easily made out .
It is obviously a more decomposed specimen of the rock represented by the two preceding specimens .
7 .
The last of this group of specimens is a rock fragment , !
measuring about 3| in .
by 2 in .
in length and breadth , and slightly exceeding an inch in greatest thickness .
Its outline is irregular , being determined by the fracture of the predominant diallage-like mineral .
The crystals-of this run large , an inch or more in length , breadth , and thickness .
It is greyish-green in colour , having one dominant cleavage , with a sub-metallic lustre , and close subordinate cleavages , giving a somewhat fibrous aspect to that surface .
Between these large crystalline lumps , numerous small , ill-defined garnets ( pyrope ) seem crowded , so as to form fairly continuous partings , generally hardly 0*1 inch in thickness .
As the readiness with which the rather soft pyroxenic constituent split away made it improbable that a good slice could be cut , and I was reluctant to injure the specimen , I contented myself with detaching a few flakes of this constituent for microscopic work , since the determination of its identity was sufficient for my purpose .
These show the mineral to have one easy cleavage and a rather fibrous structure ; they give straight extinction parallel with this .
As the usual rings and brushes can be seen on the face of easy cleavage , the mineral belongs to the bastite group .
The same is true of the enstatite in boulder ( 4 ) , though , as it is slightly more fibrous , and not in quite so good a condition , the optical picture is less distinct .
Thus we may name the rock from which the present specimen has been broken , a garnet-bearing bastitite .
8 .
This specimen , said to be a fragment of a boulder , is very different from the rest .
It is a compact greenish-grey rock containing enclosures , which give it the aspect , at first sight , of a pebbly mudstone .
Microscopic examination shows it to be a compact felspathic diabase , with vesicles , which have been filled up with calcite , chlorites , and other secondary minerals ( probably zeolites ) , but not to have any special interest .
Its relations appear to be with the rocks occurring in a conglomerate which we shall mention in a later paragraph .
* The others come from another mine ( No. 1 ) .
f I am informed that this was not part of a boulder , but came out of the " blue ground " nearly in its present condition .
Prof. T. G. Bonney .
The " Blue Ground " and Associated Bocks .
Two areas of diamantiferous rock are now being worked at the Newlands Mines .
The shape of the one which supplied most of the specimens described in this paper is irregular , and , so far as I know , exceptional .
Its outline at the surface may be roughly compared to a rounded triangle into the base of which the point of a rather short shuttle is thrust , the greatest breadth of the two being about equal .
Exploratory workings at a depth of 300 feet show that the former area rather quickly narrows , and the latter terminates in clefts .
The \#166 ; " blue ground , " in fact , appears to fill a fissure , broadening in two places to vents , which has been traced for some distance underground southwards from the principal mass of diamantiferous rock , as represented in the annexed section , where the latter is dotted .
Fig. 3 . .
: --\ :*v An igneous rock ( i ) occurs on either side .
It is compact , a greenish-grey in colour , not unlike some of the less acid Welsh felstones .
Under the microscope it is found to be much affected by secondary mineral changes , the iron oxides alone being in good preservation .
A few small crystals of decomposed felspar are scattered in a yet more decomposed matrix , of which the minor details are uninteresting .
The rock may be classed with the compact , rather felspathic , diabases .
These walls of diabase , farther to the south , turn off rather sharply to east and west .
In the interval , about 12 feet in width , between them , ribs of the " blue " and a mudstone alternate , the thickest one of the former being from 3 to 4 feet in width , and the inner part of it is in better preservation than the outer .
Specimens have been examined from the heart of the mass ( vii ) , a part outside it ( vi ) , and the exterior portion ( v ) .
The first ( vii ) in texture , hardness , and colour reminds me a little of the dark serpentine found north of Cadgwith , in Cornwall .
In this matrix roundish spots occur , some darker than it , others a yellow-green colour , besides a few angular whitish spots .
The block is traversed by two or three thin calcareous veins .
Specimen ( vi ) while The Parent-rock of the Diamond South Africa , 233 generally similar is more decomposed , and apparently contains some fragments of shale .
Specimen ( v ) has a stratified aspect , being a dull o-rey faintly mottled rock , with streaky , dark , rather carbonaceous-looking bands ; the origin being doubtful , till it is seen under the microscope .
A fourth specimen ( iii ) shows the mudstone traversed by a vein of rather pale-coloured decomposed " blue , " not exceeding an inch in thickness .
A fifth ( ii ) is from near the diabase on the western side , a dark compact rock , faintly mottled , here and there presenting a slight resemblance to a " blue " traversed by thin veins of a carbonate ; and a sixth ( iv ) from a like position on the opposite side is a generally similar rock , but with wider veins filled with more coarsely crystalline c-alcite .
A seventh specimen represents the " blue " in the " neck , " a few yards to the north and at the same level ( 300 feet ) .
This , inferior in preservation to the first-named , includes numeious rounded fragments a little darker than the matrix , with others , angular to sub-angular , some also darker and some lighter than it .
A brief summary of the results of microscopic examination may suffice , as these rocks do not materially differ from specimens obtained in the De Beers Mine , of which I have published a full account* The matrix is a mixture , in slightly variable quantities , of granules of calcite or dolomite , serpentine , pyroxene , and iron oxides , in which occur flakes with fairly idiomorphic outlines of a warm-brown mica , moderately pleochroic , corresponding with that described !
in one or two specimens from De Beers Mine .
The prisms a''e about 0*002 inch in diameter , and sometimes nearly as thick .
This mica , which , as stated in a former paper , I consider a secondary product , occurs abundantly in all the specimens , but in that from the interior ( on the whole the best preserved rock ) it is locally assuming a green colour , no doubt by hydration .
In the specimens from the thick rib , the one last named contains mineral grains and rock fragments .
Except for a few flakes of the usual mica , the former are a mixture of two fibrous minerals , the larger part corresponding with actinolite ; the rest , giving lower polarisation tints , may be serpentine .
This fact , and structures suggestive of the former presence of a cleavage more regular than that of olivine , make it more probable that diopside was the original mineral .
Though iron oxide is present in specks and rods ( especially in the worse preserved specimen ) , this occurs either in the outer part , or as though it had been deposited along cleavage planes .
In the thin rib of " blue " ( iii ) , some of the grains are composed partly of a fibrous mineral , as above described , and partly of a clear one , which often affords rather rich polarisation tints , and presents some resemblance to quartz .
Its precise nature is difficult to determine , owing to the absence of distinctive characters , but I believe it to be of second* ' Geol .
Mag. , ' 1895 , p. 492 ; and 1897 , p. 448 .
f \#163 ; Geol .
Mag./ 1897 , pp. 450 , 451 .
Prof. T. Gf .
Bonney .
ary origin .
Rock fragments are not common in the first ( interior ) specimen ( vii ) ; one , however , is probably an altered shale , and another possibly a limestone .
This is bordered by a pale , pyroxenic mineral piercing into the grains of calcite .
In the second specimen ( vi ) fragments are rather common ; among them are those of diabase , ranging from fine to coarse , one specimen of the latter , originally , perhaps , an inch in diameter , showing an ophitic structure ; felspar and augite both being rather altered , seemingly by infiltration , and one small fragment resembles a subcrystalline limestone .
Specimen ( v ) does not materially differ , but seems to contain more carbonate than the others .
The dark streaking is due to grains of iron oxide or serpentine with much opacite ; rock fragments are few and small .
Specimen ( iii ) from the thin vein contains a few very small rock fragments , mudstone or shale , more or less altered , possibly also a compact diabase .
The " country rock " is a mudstone , consisting of small chips of quartz and felspar , variable in size , embedded in a dusty matrix , including a carbonate , which is more abundant within about a fiftieth of an inch from the junction .
This part is slightly stained , but I was unable to detect any signs of contact metamorphism .
Specimens ( ii ) and ( iv ) are generally similar , but the former contains some small rounded bits of varieties of diabase , and one may represent a crystalline limestone .
The veins are filled with calcite and other secondary products , and are bordered by a very thin film of a brown micaceous mineral , like that described as often permeating the " blue .
" Both specimens suggest micromineralogical changes , such as might be produced by the passage of hot water .
Other specimens of the sedimentary rock in the immediate neighbourhood of the blue have been forwarded to me by Mr. Trubenbach .
One , from the adit on the southern side of the section mentioned above , is a grey mudstone , containing a flattish rectangular pebble , of a dark green compact rock .
Two others are from No. 2 mine , or about 700 yards to the south-west .
One , struck in the shaft at a depth of 200 feet , is a conglomerate , composed of well-rounded rock fragments , with some scattered grains of quartz .
Each of the former is bordered by a zone of a crystalline carbonate ( impure calcite ) , and the interstices are filled , sometimes by a clearer variety of the same , but more often by some minutely granular secondary product .
Of the rock fragments , one is a subcrystalline dolomitic limestone ; two , perhaps , are chalcedony ; the remainder are igneous ; the majority being varieties of diabase , sometimes rather decomposed ; the rest trachytes , mainly andesites .
Their general aspect and the not unfrequent presence of vesicles ( now filled with viridite ) suggest that they have been furnished by lava-flows .
Another specimen , obtained in the same working at a depth of 400 feet , is a rather felspathic diabase , not unlike one of the varieties in the conglomerate .
It is a good deal decomposed , is not improbably from a lava-flow , but does not call for a minute description .
The Parent-rock of the Diamond South Africa .
Conclusion .
Thus the diamond has been traced up to an igneous rock .
The \lt ; \lt ; piue ground " is not the birthplace either of it or of the garnets , pyroxenes , olivine , and other minerals , more or less fragmental , which it incorporates .
The diamond is a constituent of the eclogite , just as much as a zircon may be a constituent of a granite or a syenite .
Its regular form suggests not only that it was the first mineral to crystallise in the magma , but also a further possibility .
Though the occurrence of diamonds in rocks with a high percentage of silica ( itacolumite , granite , \amp ; c. ) has been asserted , the statement needs corroboration .
This form of crystallised carbon hitherto has been found only in meteoric iron ( Canyon Diablo ) , * and has been produced artificially by Moissan and others with the same metal as matrix .
But in eclogite the silica percentage is at least as high as in dolerite ; hence it is difficult to understand how so small an amount of carbon escaped oxidation .
I had always expected that a peridotite ( as supposed by Professor Lewis ) , if not a material yet more basic , would prove to be the birthplace of the diamond .
Can it possibly be a derivative mineral , even in the eclogite 1 Had it already crystallised out of a more basic magma , !
which , however , was still molten , when one more acid was injected , and the mixture became such as to form eclogite ?
But I content myself with indicating a difficulty , and suggesting a possibility ; the fact itself is indisputable : that the diamond occurs , though rather sporadically , as a constituent of an eclogite , which rock , according to the ordinary rules of inference , must be regarded as its birthplace .
This discovery closes another controversy , viz. , that concerning the nature of the " Hard blue " of the miners ( Kimberlite of Professor Lewis ) , in which the diamond is usually found .
The boulders described in this paper are truly water worn .
The idea that they have been rounded by a sort of " cup and ball " game played by a volcano may be dismissed as practically impossible .
Any such process would take a long time , but the absence of true scoria implies that the explosive phase was a brief one .
They resemble stones which have travelled for several miles down a mountain torrent , and must have been derived from a coarse conglomerate , manufactured by either a strong stream or the waves of a sea from fragments obtained from more ancient crystalline rocks .
J The " washings , " a parcel of which I received from * P.S.\#151 ; The Novo TJrei meteorite ( not wholly iron ) was forgotten .
t This , however , cannot have been very rich in iron , because diopside does not contain much of that constituent .
t As these eclogites are very coarsely crystalline , we are justified in assuming they were once deep-seated rocks , and so much more ancient than the date of the conglomerate .
To prevent any misunderstanding I may repeat that the matrix 236 The Parent-rock of the Diamond South Africa .
Mr. Trubenbach , also show that the boulders are really waterworn .
Besides two unworn pieces of pyrite and a rough bit of eclogite , about three-quarters of an inch in diameter , the pyroxenic constituent of which was a bright emerald-green ( ?
smaragdite ) , I find part of a sub-angular fragment of chrome-diopside associated with two or three flakes of the usual mica , a well rounded garnet fully 06 inch across , and half a well worn pebble of eclogite , about one inch long and half an inch thick .
The rounded waterworn look of the great majority of the smaller constituents ( chiefly garnets and pyroxenes ) , about the size of hemp seed , is very obvious .
I had suspected some of the grains in washings from the De Beers Mine to have been similarly treated ; but here it is indubitable , indeed many of the dark green specimens are so smooth outside that they could only be identified after fracture .
The ordinary diopside can , however , be recognised , with some of a clearer and brighter green .
Most of the garnets are pyropes , but a few resemble essonite .
I find also some grains of iron oxide and of vein quartz .
Thus , the presence of waterworn fragments , large and small , in considerable abundance , shows the " blue ground " to be a true breccia , produced by the destruction of various rocks ( some of them crystalline , others sedimentary , but occasionally including waterworn boulders of the former)\#151 ; i.e , ,a result of shattering explosions , followed by solfataric action .
Hence the name Kimberlite must disappear from the list of the peridotites , and even from petrological literature , unless it be retained for this remarkable type of breccia .
Boulders , such as we have described , might be expected to occur at the base of the sedimentary series , in proximity to a crystalline floor .
The Karoo beds in South Africa , as is well known , are underlain in many places by a coarse conglomerate of considerable thickness and great extent , called the Dwyka conglomerate , which is supposed to be Permian or Permo-carboniferous in age .
It crops out from beneath the Karoo beds at no great distance from the diamond-bearing district , and very probably extends beneath it .
If this deposit has supplied the boulders , the date of the genesis of the diamond is carried back , at the very least , to Palaeozoic ages , and possibly to a still earlier era in the earth 's history .
from -which , these boulders were taken ( at various depths , from nearly 100 to about 300 feet ) cannot he any alluvial deposit , but is the typical " blue ground , " practically identical with that in the Kimberley mines .

