On a new Metal , found in crude Platina .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. F.R9S .
ReadJune 21 , 1804 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1804 , p. 419 .
] Dr. Wollaston having conceived an idea that , in addition to the two new metals the preceding paper states to have been discovered in platina , the fluid which remains after the precipitation of that metal by sal-ammoniac , and which is likely to contain the more soluble parts of the mineral , might , on further examination , be found to contain some other substance worthy of our attention ; and , in fact , having instituted an accurate analysis , of which the present paper contains a full detail , he thinks he has proved the existence of another unknown metal , to which , for the sake of distinction , he ascribes the name of Rhodium , from the beautiful rose-colour of the salts containing it .
In the course of his detail , he likewise states the results of various experiments , which , he says , have convinced him that the metallic substance which was last year announced to the public by the name of Palladium , is contained ( though in very small proportion , ) in the ore of platina .
The process referred to for separating these several ingredients from each other yielded , in fact , a pure metallic button , not malleable , but uniting readily with all the other metals that have been tried , except mercury , and whose specific gravity appeared not less than 11 .
This is the rhodium , which is here announced for the first time .
The palladium was precipitated from the alcohol employed for washing the salt of rhodium : it was yielded , indeed , in a very small proportion , but in sufficient quantity , however , to prove that it is actually a simple metal residing in platina , and to induce a suspicion of some error in Mr. Chenevix 's investigation , who thought it a compound of platina and mercury ; but our author candidly adds , that lie has made several attempts to imitate the synthetical experiments of that chemist by solution and amalgamation , but without success .

