An Observation , made by the same Mr. Templer upon the Motion of the Hearts of two Urchins , after their being cut out .
WHen I had written thus far , I was diverted by a couple of living Urchins , which were presented me by a Shepherd .
I shall now mention no more than my cutting out their Hearts ; whereupon I found the Systole and DiDiastole to continue full two hours , while the hearts lay upon a glased earthen white plate in a cold window .
The distance of their Diastoles was unequal in time , but very large for half an hour , and then sensibly diminishing until they ceased at the two hours distance ; and would not then be re-inforced by a needles point , which for the half hour preceeding they would answer at any time .
But here I must ask , shall we call these Hearts dead after the first hour ?
If so , than that Paralytical arm is much more dead , which is deprived of Sense but not of Motion ; a famous instance whereof the Immortal Harvey gives us somewhere , ( I cannot quote the place , not having seen the book since the flames consumed my Library , ) in his Exercitat .
de Gener .
Animalium ; since this Heart had not only Motion , but Sense too , upon the pricking with the point of a needle .
If you object , That the pricking of a needle made a compression of the fibres , and , by consequence , of the included Spirits , and they by virtue of their own Spring rebounding imitated a Diastole of the heart : I answer , that after the Hearts had ceased above 1/ 4 of an hour , so as a needle pricking them caused no Motion ; yet upon setting the plate upon the hearth in the Chimney , in about two minutes of time they began to beat , though but weakly ; and upon eight minutes continuance they beat freely ; and when removed into the window again , continued their pulsation , without pricking , above an hour , and might have done longer , could I have spared my servant to attend them longer .
Peradventure we may hence conjecture at the cause of Life and Death .
And when shall we say then , any Animal or Insect is dead , if it hath Motion ?
Some Communications out of Turky , by persons residing there .
THere is a Disease , which reigns in the Country about Aleppo , and as far as Bagdat , invading both sexes , all sorts of ages , and strangers as well as natives .
It is commonly called Il mal d ' Aleppo , and appears to be in the skin a small pustula or wheal hard and red , the head whereof is scarce bigger at the beginning than the point of a pin ; afterwards growing bigger , and being nourish't by five or six little roots or fibres , it goes on to its height for the space of about 6 , months ; and in as many more coms to its declination : So that the whole peD ddddd2 riod riod of this disease is generally comprised within the space of one year .
But this Pustula hath hitherto yielded to no remedies , neither in the beginning , middle , or declinaion , but hath rather been exasperated by them , though they were anodyna .
It is wholly to be left to Nature , and , if you do so , there is no pain or trouble in it .
It takes people not once , but often , and it seizes on several parts of the body ; and if it do so on the face ( as often it doth ) it causes a remarquable scar , which yet by little and little vanishes .
As to Fevers at and about Aleppo , though they have the same Type there as in England ; yet there are two things peculiar in them .
One is , that in Acute fevers , Cold sweat commonly signifies recovery , but Hot sweat portends death .
The other is , that in such acute fevers even an intermitting pulse denounces no danger .
Touching the Leprosy , which anciently was so frequent a malady in these Countries , it is now scarce to be found there , though at Damascus there is still an Hospital standing , formerly built for the relief of persons thus diseased .
As for the reason , why the City of Constantinople is so much subject to the Plague ; some are of opinion , that the multitude of Slaves , yearly brought by the Black-Sea , and their hard diet and usage , begets this corruption : Others judge , that the commonalty there , feeding for the greatest part of Summer on Cucumbers and Melons , and drinking water upon them , without the Use of helps to correct the crudities , fall into malignant and pestilential fevers .
But the Physicians generally conclude , That the Air of Conctantinople is infected by the North-East-winds , which blow commonly for 3 months , beginning about the Summer-solstice arising from unwholesome Marshes in Tartary and Muscovy , and passing over the BlackSea , ( a place known to abound with Fogs , ) bring with them certain dispositions tending to corruption ; which working upon bodies already prepared by bad diet , may well be iudged , they say , to be the cause of this distemper .
Besides the other uses of Opium in Turky , it is common in Arabia , to cure Horses with it of the Gripping of the As to the Tarky way of dressing Leather , it is to be observed , that their Leather is nothing so strong and serviceable as that in England ; an assured proof whereof is the Wearing .
And though it be commonly reported , that the Leather in these parts , though thin and supple , will hold out water ; yet this is to be understood , that the Turks in their winter-boots , between the lining and the leather , put a Sear-cloth , which being curiously fow 'd in the seams , will keep out water , though you put them in it for divers hours together .
In cleaning of their leather , they use Lime and Album Gracum ; and instead of Barks of trees , they employ Valonia , a sort of acorn growing on the Oaks .
I am persuaded , that our Acorns in England , if they could be spared for it , would perform the like effect , and perhaps better ; seeing that many times the Valonia burns the Leather so much as to make it little Serviceable ; whereas out acorns are probably more temperate and so might better serve

