]\gt ; Boiling Point of Liquid Hydrogen under Reduced Pressure .
227 The generating functions under view are real in the sense of Cayley and Sylvester Entlmerating generating functions of various kinds are obtained ) assigning squalities between the suffixed capitals Pntting , we the fimction which enumerates by the coefficient of , in the ascending ( ixpansion , the numbers of solutions for which be gathered the note of the following investigation is the tion of the idea that the solution of any system of equations of the form ( all the involved being integers ) is a problem of partition dvsis , and that the theory proceeds pnri with that of the Diophantine analysis .
On Boiling Poinb of Liquid under educed Pressurc By JAMES , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received and December 15 , 1898 .
The June number of the 'Proceedings of the Chemical Society ' by the author on " " The Boiling Point and Density of Liquid Hydrogon A resistance thermometer made of fine wire , No. 7 Thermometer , was used in the investigation .
It had refully cdibrated , and gave the following resistances at tures : Besist Telnpcr : ur .
Ohms . .
6.859 6.388 5.338 3.687 1.398 The of tho thermometer in tinum degrees J. 1 ) .
ellow of Pcterhouse , who contril ) paper to the ' Phil. ' for June , 1898 , on " " The lction Prof. J. Dewar .
On the Boiling Point of to Normal Air Temperature of the Platinum Thermometers used in the low temperature researches of Professor Fleming and the author , has .
been good enough to calculate a special formula for this thermometer No , 7 .
He finds the formula expresses the relation between the resistanoe and temperature in centigrade degrses .
This expression gives a probabls error of only C. over a range of more than 30 C. When this thermometer lvas placed in boiling hydrogen , the resistance became ohm , and remained constant at this value .
Calculated into the Dickson formula , this value of the resistance corresponds to a temperature of C. If we assume the resistance reduced to zero , then the temperature registered by the thermometer ought to be C. At the boiling point of hydrogen , therefore , if the law correlating resistance and temperature can be pressed to its limits , a lowering of the boiling point of hydrogen by or C. would produce a condition of affairs where the platinum would have no resistance , or become a perfect conductor .
Now we have every reason to believe that hydrogen , like other liquids , will boil at a lower temperature the lower the pressure under which it is volatilised .
The question arises , how much lowerin of temperature can we practically anticipate .
For this purpose we have the boiling point and critical data available from which ws can calculats an approximate vapour pressure formula , accepting abs .
as the boiling point ; .
as the critical temperature , and at .
as the critical pressure ; then as a first approximation mm. If instead of using the critical pressure in the calculation we assume the molecular latent heat of hydrogen proportional to the absolute boiling point , then from a comparison with an expression of the same kind , which gives accurate results for oxygen tensions below ons atmosphere , we can derive anot , her expression for hydrogen vapour pressures , which ought to be pplicable to boiling points under reduced pressure .
The resulting formula is mm. Now formula ( 1 ) gives a boiling point of .
undsr a pressure of 25 mm. , whereas the second equation ( 2 ) gives for the same pressure abs .
As the absolute boiling point under atmospheric pressure is , both expressions lead to the oonclusion that ebullition Liquid Eydrogen unuler Reduced Pressure .
mder 2 mm. pressure ought to reduce the boiling point some C. For some time experiments have been in progress with the object of the temperature of hydrogen boiling under about 25 mm. pressure , but the difficulties encountered have been so great , and repettted failures so exasperating , that a record of the results so far reached ) ecomes advisable .
The troubles arise from the conduction of heat by the .
ths small latent heat of hydrogen volume for volume as compared with liquid air ; the inefficiency of heat isolation and the strain on the thermometer brought about by solid air freezing on it distorting the coil of wire .
In many experiments the result has been that all the liquid hydrogen has evaporated before the pressure WclS reduced to 25 mm. , or the thermometer was left imperfectly covered .
The apparatub employed will be understood from the The liqnid lrogcll collccted in the vacllum vessel A We'lS suspended in vessel of the same kind , which is so constrncted that a the inner and onter tebt-tubes of which is an opening into the terior at C. The thermometer and ' throngh bber cork , and the 230 Boilin .
Point of Liquid Hydrogen under Reduced Pressure .
exhaustion takes place through C. In this way the cold vapours are drawn over the outside of the hydrogen vacuum vessel , and this helps to isolate the liquid from the connective currents of gas .
To effect proper isolation the whole apparatus ought to have been immersed in liquid air under exhaustion .
Arrangements of this kind add to the complication , so in the first instance the liquid was used as described .
The liquid hydrogen evaporated quietly and steadily under a pressure of about 25 mm. of mercury , without the least appearance of solidification or loss of mobility ; still remaining clear and colourless to the eye .
Naturally the liquid does not last long , so the resistance has to be takenl quickly .
Just before the reductiort of pressure began , the resistance of the thermometer was ohm .
This result compares favourably with the former observation on the boiling point , which gave a resistance of ohm .
On reducing the pressure , the resistance diminished to ohm , and kept steady for some time .
The lowest reading of resistance was ohm .
This valus corresponds to C. , or only one degree lower than the boiling point at atmospheric pressure , whereas the temperature ought to havs been reduced some C. or in any case under the assumed exhaustion .
The position of the observation on the curve of the relation of temperature and resistance for No. 7 thermometer is shown on the accompanying diagram .
The question arises then as to what is the explanation of Xiquid Hydrogen for the Prodvxtion of High Vacua .
this result 1 Has the platinum resistance thermometer arrived at a limiting resistance about , so that at a lower temperature it refuses to change in resistance , the curvs having become practically asymptotic to the axis of temperature On the other hand , has the influx of hcat by the leads , and the correction on account of this change of resistance , become so great as to vitiate the results at these excessivcly low temperatures 1 Again , it may be suggested that the thermometer was not properly cooled , or that the liquid hydrogen does not lower in temperature to any marked extent under exhaustion like other liquids .
All these conjectures can only be set at rest by a repetition of the experiments with a new thermometer of much higher initial resistance , and lmdcr conditions of better heat isolation .
No bhnder having ) detected in the observationb , for the present we must assumP th the tinum resistance thermometer No. 7 acts in the lescribed .
It wonld be premature to discuss the inferences to bc from these results until they are confirmed on another riety of wire made into a resistance thermometer .
But as this will involve the of considerable quantities of liquid hydrogen , it } take some time to complete the investigation .
The same kind of anomaly in the case of the use of a thermothese low temperatures , but this is a separate matter , and must be with iu a further communication .
I ndel ) to .
J. E. Petavel for assistance in the electrical , ctnd also to Mr. Robert Lennox and Mr. Heath for their help in the conduct of the experiments .
" " tion of Liqnid to the Production of with their Spectroscopic Exalnination By , LL. D. , eceived and of the extraordinary power of the new cooling gent .
hydrugen , the extreme rttpidity with which high vacua I its use is , perhaps , one of the most striking .
The of ogen , oxygen , and respcc , , in other words oxygen boils a tnre highcr liquid hydrogen , liquid chlorinc hadf times that of liquid oxygen .
From as a cooling to be ti to the ttcr is to of liquid chlo1 at the temperature of oxygcn is a clting point , in this condition has an ccssivcly f pressurc .
Vhcn liquid hydroge1l freczcs of immersing the eud in the liquid , it is to )

