2 .
On different properties of Solar Radiation , producing or preventing a deposit of Mercury on Silver Plates coated with Iodine , or its compounds with Bromine or Chlorine , modified by coloured glass media and the vapours of the atmosphere .
" By A. C. Claudet .
Communicated by Sir David Brewster , K.H. , D.C.L , F.R.S. , &amp;c. At an early period of the study of photography , it was observed that the red , orange and yellow rays are endowed with antagonistic powers , preventing and destroying the action produced by white light , or by the rays properly called photogenic rays .
One of the first discoverers of this property was Dr. Draper of New York : his experiments were made with the pure rays of the spectrum acting on the Daguerreotype plate .
Previously to this , however , Sir J. Herschel had made similar observations on the action of the pure rays of the spectrum on several kinds of photogenic paper .
Dr. Draper also found that the red , orange and yellow rays which protect the plate from ordinary photogenic action , are themselves capable , when isolated , of producing a peculiar photogenic effect .
In opposition to the hypothesis of an antagonistic or destroying action exercised by the red , orange and yellow rays , M. E. Becquerel announced that those rays are endowed with the property of continuing the action commenced by the photogenic rays .
The author of the present paper has made a series of observations on light transmitted through certain colouring media , through the vapours of the atmosphere , and through red , orange and yellow glasses. .
Having directed a camera obscura to the sun when his disc appeared through a fog quite red , he obtained , after ten seconds , a black image of the sun .
The red .
sun had produced no photogenic effect , although the surrounding spaces had been sufficiently affected by the photogenic rays coming from the zenith to attract the white vapour of mercury ; thus proving that the red rays have no photogenic power .
In another experiment he left the plate in the camera during twenty minutes .
The sun had passed over a long space on the surface of the plate , and the result was a long image of the sun , quite black throughout ; so that not only the red sun had produced no photogenic action , but the red rays had destroyed the effect produced previous to their passage .
Not content with the result obtained by the slow motion of the sun , he next moved the camera obscura from right to left , and vice versed , lowering it each time by means of a screw .
In this manner the sun was made to pass rapidly over five or six zones of the plates , and its passage was marked by long black bands , while the intervals were white ; showing again that in order to destroy the action of the photogenic rays , it was sufficient to cause the red rays to pass rapidly over the spaces previously affected by the former .
He afterwards operated with coloured glasses .
After having taken the impression of a piece of black lace by white light on a Daguerreotype plate , he covered one half of the plate and exposed the other to the radiation of a red glass .
The mercury developed an image of the lace on the part whichhad been acted on only by the white light ; and the other part , which had afterwards received the action of the red rays , remained black .
The red glass had destroy ( l the photogenic effect , precisely as was the case with the red light of the sun .
He made similar experiments with orange and yellow glass , and obtained analogous results , but in different periods of time .
These experiments prove that the red , orange and yellow rays destroy the effect of photogenic light , whether these rays are produced by the prism or by the action of coloured media ; but the author believes that he was the first to remark , that after the destruction of the photogenic effect , the plate is perfectly restored to its former sensitiveness to white light .
After exposing a plate to the daylight , and then submitting it to the destructive action of red , orange or yellow rays , it will be found to be again sensitive to the same white light .
It appears from the author 's observations , that a plate may be exposed to these two actions alternately , for any number of times , without altering the final property of the surface , which will be invariably sensitive to the vapours of mercury , if its last exposure has been to the action of white light ; whilst it will be deprived of that sensitiveness if it has been exposed lastly to the action of the red , orange or yellow rays .
It results from the restoring action of the red , orange and yellow rays , that Daguerreotype plates may be prepared in open daylight ; and that in order to give sensitiveness , it is necessary only to place the plate for some minutes under red glass before putting it into the camera obscura .
The knowledge of this will be advantageous to persons wishing to take views in places where it is difficult to find dark rooms in which to prepare the plates .
Besides the destructive actions of the red , orange and yellow glasses , these same radiations are endowed with a photogenic action of their own ; that is to say , they have , like the blue and violet rays , the power of causing the fixation of mercurial vapours .
Those radiations , therefore , are endowed with two actions of a contrary nature ; one destructive of the effect of the photogenic light , and the other producing an effect analogous to that light .
The photogenic action of the red rays is 5000 times , that of the orange 500 times , and that of the yellow 100 times slower than white light in producing an equal amount of effect .
The destructive action of the red rays is 100 times slower than that of the white light , the orange 50 times , and the yellow only 10 times .
When a plate has been exposed to the destructive action of any particular ray , it cannot be affected photogenically by the radiation which has destroyed the first effect ; it is sensitive only to the other radiations .
The photogenic action of any radiation cannot be continued by another .
The solar spectrum is therefore endowed with three different photogenic actions , and three different destroying actions , corresponding with the red , the yellow and the blue rays .
The three photogenic actions of the spectrum thus distinguished have distinct characters ; each of these radiations is endowed with a photogenic power peculiar to itself , and which gives to the Daguerreotype plate an affinity for mercurial vapours ; nevertheless these three actions are so different , that we cannot , by mixing them artificially , make one assist the other ; for they are antagonistic .
The effect produced by the blue rays is destroyed by the red and yellow ; the red and yellow mutually destroy each other , and the effect of either is destroyed by the blue .
The alternate changes of the surface of the plate by these three kinds of radiation seem to prove that the chemical compound remains always the same under these different influences , and that there is no separation or disengagement of the constituent elements .
The author has no doubt that electricity , which accompanies each radiation , acts positively under the influence of the one , and negatively under that of the other , without changing the chemical compound ; in the one case this influence would give the.affinity for nercury , and in the other it would destroy it .

