" On the Absorption of Gases by Charcoal.-No .
I. " By Dr. R. ANGUS SMITH , F.R.S. Received December 27 , 1862 .
( Abstract .
) The following is a summary of the author 's observations:1 .
Charcoal absorbs oxygen co as to separate it from common air , or from its mixtures with hydrogen and nitrogen , at common temperatures .
2 .
Charcoal continues the absorption of oxygen for at least a month , although the chief amount is absorbed in a few hours , sometimes in a few seconds , according to the quality of the charcoal .
3 .
It does not absorb hydrogen , nitrogen , or carbonic acid for the same period .
4 .
Although the amount absorbed is somewhat in the relation of the condensibility of the gases by pressure , this is not the only quality regulating the absorption , of oxygen at least .
5 .
When it is sought to remove the oxygen from charcoal by warmth , carbonic acid is formed , even at the temperature of boiling water , and slowly even at lower temperatures .
6 .
Charcoals differ extremely in absorbing power , and in the capacity of uniting with oxygen , animal charcoal possessing the latter property in a greater degree than wood-charcoal .
7 .
Nitrogen and hydrogen , when absorbed by charcoal , diffuse into the atmosphere of another gas with such force as to depress the mercury three-quarters of an inch .
8 .
Water expels mercury from the pores of charcoal by an instantaneous action .
9 .
The action of porous bodies is not indiscriminate but elective .
Theoretical Considerations .
1 .
The elective nature of porous bodies may be closely allied to three properties:a .
The condensibility of the gases .
b. The attraction and perhaps inclination to combine .
c. The capacity of combination .
2 .
In either case the attraction which results in condensation of the gas is exercised at distances greater than the distances of atoms or molecules in combination .
3 .
The gases in porous bodies lie in strata , the outside and more distant being less attracted than the atoms nearer the solid body .
4 .
We cannot separate chemical from physical attraction ; but attraction may exist without its ultimate result ( combination ) , which is distinctly chemical .
5 .
It is exceedingly probable that as physical attraction moves onwards to chemical combination , it produces the phenomena which have been attributed to so-called masses .
Chemical affinity is supposed to involve an attraction which is purely chemical ; we have no proof of any such attraction as a separate power , we have only a proof of the combination .
Attraction may exist without the capacity of combining chemically , or , in other words , without chemical affinity .
Chemical affinity ( a very inappropriate term ) is only known by combination ; the previous attraction has never yet been shown to be of two kinds ; and it seems more in accordance with Nature to diminish than to increase the number of original powers .

