2S3( ) Explanation of an Optical Deception in the Appearance of the Spokes of a Wheel seen through vertical Apertures .
By P. M. Roget , M.D. F.R.S. Read December 9 , 1824 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 131 .
] The optical deception which Dr. Roget describes , takes place when a carriage-wheel , rolling along the ground , is viewed through the intervals of a series of vertical bars , such as those of a palisade , or of a Venetian window-blind .
In these circumstances , all the spokes appear curved , those which are situated vertically excepted , the degree of curvature increasing as their position recedes from the vertical , and being a maximum for the horizontal spokes .
The convexity of these curved images is always turned downwards , and the direction of their curvature is the same whichever way the wheel be moving .
To determine the influence of variations of circumstances on these phenomena , appeared to Dr. Roget the proper mode of obtaining a clue to their explanation .
It results from his experiments , that a certain degree of velocity in the wheel is necessary to produce the deception in question ; and if this be communicated to it gradually , the principal effect of curvature is observed to come on suddenly , but the degree of bending is independent of the velocity of the wheel , and each image appears , during the moment it is viewed , motionless .
The number of spokes makes no difference in their degree of curvature .
The deception is favoured by the diminution of the interval between the bars , by throwing a strong light on the wheel , and by every circum-l staince which tends to draw attention from the bars and fix it on the wheel , The number of curved images was found to depend on the ratio of the angles subtended at the eye by the intervals between the bars , and those between the extremities of the spokes ; being greater as this ratio was less .
If the bars were inclined to the horizon , the phenomena were those of a wheel revolving with a less velocity in a direction perpendicular to their length .
Finally , the combination of a progressive with a rotatory motion ( whether produced by a real motion of the wheel , the bars , or the spectator , ) was found to be essential to the production of the phenomena .
From all these circumstances , the author is led to refer the explanation of the deception in question , to the principle that an impression made by a pencil of rays on the retina , if sufficiently vivid , will remain for a certain time after the cause has ceased .
He then explains at length the application of this principle to the case in question , and shows that the apparent form of each spoke will be a curve formed by the continual intersection of the revolving and advancing radius , with the immovable interval between the bars , referred , not to the plane in which the bars lie , for then it would be a straight line , but by an effort of attention , to the plane of the wheel .
The general form of these curves he refers to the class of Quadratrices , and the most remarkable among them is that first discovered by Dinostrates , and known by his name .
By varying a certain parameter in the equation of these curves , other forms , having infinite branches and points of contrary flexure , arise ; and these the author has succeeded in rendering visible , by making the wheel revolve on an axle of less than its own diameter ; and the appearances being in this , as well as in the foregoing case , perfectly consonant to his theory , he considers the explanation given as quite satisfactory .
Dr. Roget concludes by suggesting the possibility of measuring the duration of the impression of light on the retina by observing the apparent velocity of the visible portion of the spokes .

