Mr. C. A. Bell .
[ May 13 , method would he so laborious as to he impracticable in most circumstances .
Tabular forms have been prepared by help of which the computations of the coefficients in the form cos 6 , sin may conveniently be carried out , with a minimum of arithmetical labour ; also for obtaining the coefficients P and the angle C in the form P sin ( 0-f C ) ; and the method of correcting the coefficients , as computed from the observed quantities , for any non-periodic variation between the commencement and end of the series is likewise indicated .
III .
" On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
" By Chichester A. Bell , M.B. Communicated by Prof. A. W. Williamson , F.R.S. Received April 28 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) After a brief historical notice of the observations of Savart , Masson , Sondhauss , Kundt , Laconte , Barret and Tyndall , Decharme , and Neyreneuf , on the sympathetic vibrations of jets and flames , the author describes his own experiments .
Attention was directed to the subject by the accidental observation that a pulsating air-jet directed against a flame caused the latter to emit a musical sound .
The pitch of this sound depended solely on the rapidity of the jet pulsations , but its intensity was found to increase in a remarkable way with the distance of the flame from the orifice .
In order to study the phenomenon , air was allowed to escape against the flame from a small orifice in the ^diaphragm of an ordinary telephone , the chamber behind the diaphragm being placed in communication with a reservoir of air under gentle pressure .
Vibratory motions being then excited in the diaphragm , by means of a battery and a microphone or rheotome in a distant apartment , the discovery was made that speech as well as musical and other sounds could be quite loudly reproduced from the flame .
Certain observations led the author to suspect that motion of the orifice rather than compression of the air in the chamber was the chief agent in the phenomenon ; and , in fact , precisely similar results were obtained when a light glass jet-tube was cemented to a soft iron armature , mounted on a spring in front of the telephone magnet .
Experiment also showed that an air-jet at suitable pressure directed against a flame repeats all sounds or words uttered in the neighbourhood .
Except , however , where the impressed vibrations do not differ widely in pitch from the normal vibrations of the jet ( discovered by Sondhauss and Masson ) , these effects are likely to escape notice , owing to the inability of the ear to distinguish between the disturbing sounds and their echo-like reproduction from the flame .
On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
1886 .
] In these experiments the primary action of the impressed vibrations was undoubtedly exerted on the air-jet ; but a singular and perplexing fact was that no sound , or at best very faint sounds , could be heard from the latter when the flame was removed , and the ear or the end of a wide tube connected with the ear , was substituted for it .
Suspecting , finally , that the changes in the jet , effective in producing sound from the flame , must be relative changes of different parts of it , the author was led to try a very small hearing orifice , about as large as the jet orifice .
The results were most striking .
By introducing this little hearing orifice into the path of a vibrating air-jet , the vibrations can be heard over a very wide area .
Close to the jet orifice they are so faint as to be scarcely audible ; but they increase in intensity in a remarkable way as the hearing orifice is moved away along the axis of the jet , and reach their maximum at a certain distance .
Experiments with smoked air showed that this point of maximum sound is that at which the jet loses its rod-like character , and expands rapidly ; it has been named the " breaking point , " because just beyond it the sounds heard from the jet acquire a broken or rattling character , and at a greater distance are completely lost .
The distance of the breaking point from the orifice diminishes as the intensity of the disturbing vibrations is increased , and also depends to some extent on their pitch , and on the velocity of the jet .
With orifices of 1 to 1| mm. in diameter it usually varies from 1 to 6 cm .
The vibrations of an air-jet may also be heard at points not situated on the axis ; but they are always most intense along the axis , and become rapidly fainter as the distance from it increases .
With glass jet and hearing tubes , and a light gas bag to serve as reservoir , these experiments are easily repeated ; but simple apparatus for more careful experiments is described .
The author 's general conclusions from his experiments and those of others are as follows:\#151 ; A jet of air at moderate pressure ( below 10 mm. of water ) from an orifice 1 to 1^ mm. in diameter , forms a continuous column for a certain distance , beyond which it expands and becomes confused .
Any impulse , such as a tap on the jet support , or a short and sharp sound , causes a minute disturbance to start from the orifice .
This disturbance increases in area as it progresses , and finally causes the jet to break .
By directing the jet against a flame or a hearing orifice it is readily perceived that such disturbances travel along the jet path with a velocity which is not that of sound in air .
In fact , the sound heard in the ear-piece resembles an echo of the disturbing sound .
The disturbances produced by sounds of different pitch travel along the jet path with the same velocity .
This is evident ; since otherwise accurate reproduction of the complex vibrations of speech 2 c 2 Mr. C. A. Bell .
[ May 13 , at a distance from the orifice would be impossible .
This velocity is much less than that of sound in air , and is probably the mean velocity of the stream .
A vibrating air-jet playing into free air gives rise to very feeble sounds , but these sounds are much intensified when the jet impinges on any obstacle which serves to divide it into two parts .
Of such arrangements the best is a perforated surface , the orifice being placed in the axis of the jet .
A jet of air at low pressure responds to and reproduces only sounds of low pitch .
Sounds above a certain pitch , which depends on the pressure , either do not affect it or are only faintly reproduced .
At pressures between 10 and 12 mm. of water an air-jet reproduces all the tones of the speaking voice , and those usually employed in music , with the exception of very shrill or hissing noises , When the pressure in the reservoir equals about 13 mm. of water , hissing sounds are well reproduced , while sounds of low pitch become fainter .
At higher pressures , up to about 25 mm. of water , shrill or hissing noises produce very violent disturbance , while ordinary speech tones have little effect .
But at these pressures sounds of high pitch frequently cause the jet to emit lower sounds of which they are harmonics .
In general a pressure of about 12 mm. of water will be found most suitable for reproducing speech or music .
Under this condition the jet is very sensitive to disturbances of all kinds , and will reproduce speech , music , and the irregular sounds classified as " noises .
" It must be understood that the pressures here given are only suitable for jets of not too small diameter .
When the diameter of the orifice is only a small fraction of a millimetre the above limits may be much exceeded ; since the velocity of efflux no longer depends solely on the pressure .
A jet of air escaping from a perfectly circular orifice does not vibrate spontaneously so as to emit a musical sound .
But musical vibrations may be excited in it by the passage of the air on its way to the orifice through a resonant cavity , or through any irregular constriction .
An air-jet impinging on any obstacle , such as a flame , frequently vibrates spontaneously , if the obstacle is at sufficient distance and of such a nature as to diffuse the disturbances produced by impact or throw them back on the orifice .
This constitutes one of the chief objections to the use of a flame as a means of rendering audible the vibrations of a jet .
The disturbances excited in the surrounding air by the impact of the stream upon it are so intense as easily to react on the orifice .
When , therefore , the jet is thrown into any state of vibration it tends to continue in the same state , even after the exciting sound has ceased .
1886 .
] On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
A jet of air usually responds most energetically to some particular tone or set of related tones ( Sondhauss ) .
Such a particular tone may he called the jet fundamental .
The practical inconvenience arising from this may be diminished by raising the air-pressure until the jet fundamental is higher than any of the tones to be reproduced .
When a flame and an air-jet meet at right angles vibrations impressed upon the flame orifice also yield sound .
The conditions of pressure , \amp ; c. , are somewhat different ; but the changes produced at the orifice grow in the same way as those in an air-jet , The best results are obtained when a gentle current of air is directed from a wide tube just below the apex of the blue zone .
It is difficult at first sight to account for the fact that a vibrating jet gives rise to sound only when it strikes upon some object which divides it into two parts .
The following experiments , however , in some sense explain this .
The relative normal velocity at different points in the stream may be measured by introducing into its path the open end of a capillary tube which is connected with a water manometer .
This velocity diminishes continuously along the axis from the orifice to the breaking point ; and also diminishes continuously from any point of the axis outwards towards the circumference .
Now a sudden disturbance communicated to the air at the orifice will be found to produce a , fall in velocity along the axis of the jet , but a rise in velocity along its extreme outer portions .
It thus appears that the changes along the axis and along the circumference , produced by a disturbance , are of opposite character .
When the jet plays into free air these opposing changes neutralise each other in the main ; but this interference is prevented when the jet strikes upon any object which serves to divide it .
When a vibrating air-jet plays against a small flame , the best sounds are heard when the stream strikes the flame just below the apex of the blue zone .
At the plane of contact an intensely blue flame ring appears , and this ring vibrates visibly when the jet is disturbed .
The production of sound from it doubtless depends on changes in the rate of combustion of the gas .
This may be proved by inserting into the ring a fine slip of platinum , connected in circuit with a battery and a telephone .
When the jet is thrown into vibration the consequent variations in the temperature of the platinum affect its conductivity , and hence a feeble reproduction of the jet vibration may be heard in the telephone .
To Savart we are mainly indebted for our knowledge of the sympathetic vibrations of liquid jets .
This physicist showed that a liquid jet always tends to separate into drops at a distance from the orifice in a regular manner ; and that this tendency is so well marked , that when the jet strikes upon any object , such as a stretched mem- Mr. C. A. Bell .
[ May 13 , brane , so arranged that the disturbances caused by impact may be conducted back to the orifice , a definite musical sound is produced .
The pitch of the sound , or the number of drops separated in a given time , varies directly as the square root of the height of liquid in the reservoir , and inversely as the diameter of the orifice .
Savart further showed that external vibrations impressed upon the orifice may act like the impact disturbances , and cause the jet to divide into drops .
Impact on a stretched membrane may then cause the reproduction as sound of the impressed vibrations .
The tones capable of producing this effect were considered to lie within the limits of an octave below and a fifth above the jet normal .
The author has found , however , that jets of every mobile liquid are capable of responding to and reproducing all sounds whose pitch is below that of the jet normal , as well as some above ; and that the timbre or quality of the impressed vibrations is also preserved , provided that the jet is at such pressure as to be capable of responding to all the overtones which confer this quality .
Other essential conditions for perfect reproduction are , that the receiving membrane should be placed at such distance from the orifice that the jet never breaks into drops above its surface ; and that it should be insulated as carefully as possible from the orifice .
In order to assist the action of aerial sound-waves on the fluid , it is advisable to attach the jet-tube rigidly to a pine sound-board about fths of an inch thick .
The surfaces of the board should be free , otherwise it may be supported in any way .
The receiving membrane is formed by a piece of thin sheet rubber , tied over the end of a brass tube about fths of an inch in internal diameter .
A wide flexible hearing tube furnished with an ear-piece is attached to the brass tube .
The jet-tube is connected with an elevated reservoir by an india-rubber pipe .
With an apparatus of this kind , and a tolerably wide jet-tube having an orifice about 07 mm. in diameter , a pressure of about 15 decimetres of water is required to bring the jet into condition to respond to all the tones and overtones of the speaking voice ( except hissing sounds ) and those employed in music .
At a somewhat higher pressure it will reproduce hissing sounds .
It is not easy for an untrained ear to distinguish between the disturbing sounds and their reproduction by the jet , when both are within range of hearing .
Vibrations may however be conveyed to a jet from a distance in a fairly satisfactory way , by attaching one end of a thin cord to the jet-support , and the other to the centre of a parchment drum .
The cord being stretched , an assistant may speak , sing , or whistle , to the distant drum .
Other devices for conveying vibrations from a distance are described .
Now when the jet is disturbed in any way , and the receiving mem1886 .
] On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
bran is introduced into its path close to the orifice , scarcely any sound can be heard in the ear-piece .
But .if the membrane be moved away from the orifice along the path of the jet the sounds become gradually louder , until at a certain distance ( which varies both with the character of the orifice and the intensity of the impressed vibrations ) a position of maximum purity and loudness is reached .
At greater distances the reproduction by the jet becomes at first rattling and harsh , and finally unintelligible .
In the latter case the jet will be seen to break above the membrane .
From this experiment we may draw the conclusions previously arrived at for air-jets ; viz. , that all changes produced by sound at the orifice grow in accordance with the same law ; and that all changes travel with the same velocity , which is probably the mean velocity of the stream .
# The mode in which the jet acts upon the membrane becomes apparent when instantaneous shadow photographs of vibrating jets are examined .
When the jet is steady , and the orifice strictly circular and well insulated , the outline in the upper part of the stream is that of a slightly conical rod , the base of the cone being at the orifice .
When , however , vibrations are impressed upon the support , swellings and constrictions appear on the surface of the rod , which become more pronounced as the fluid travels downwards .
At the breaking point the constrictions give way , those due to the more energetic sound impulses being the first to break .
When the impressed vibrations are complex , the outline of the jet may be very complicated .
When the membrane is interposed , we have then a constantly changing mass of liquid hurled against it , and vibratory movements are therefore excited in it , proportional to the varying cross section of the jet at its surface .
It would appear at first sight that the mode of growth of the vibratory changes in a liquid jet must be different from that which characterises the vibrations of an air-jet .
It is possible , however , by special arrangements , to receive the impact of only a small section of a vibrating liquid jet , and thus to get a reproduction of its vibrations as sound .
We are thus led to conclude that the sound effects of a vibrating liquid jet may not be simply due to its varying cross section , since actual changes occur in the translation- or rotation-velocity of its particles .
Experiment shows that these changes are greatest along the axis of the jet .
One of the most interesting and beautiful methods of studying the vibrations of a jet consists in placing some portion of it in circuit with a battery and telephone , whereby its vibrations become audible in the telephone .
A number of forms of apparatus for this purpose have been constructed , but one will serve as a type .
Savart in the course of his experiments showed that the vibrations of the jet are preserved 374 Mr. C. A. Bell .
[ May 13 , I in the " nappe " or thin sheet of fluid formed when the jet strikes normally on a small surface .
So far then as vibratory changes are concerned , the nappe has all the properties of the main stream .
Although the diameter of this excessively thin film is about the same whatever be the distance of the surface from the orifice , the intensity of the vibratory changes propagated to it varies with this distance , as for the jet itself .
It is simply necessary then to insert into the nappe two platinum electrodes in circuit with a telephone and a battery having an electromotive force of from 12 to 30 volts , to get an accurate and faithful reproduction of the jet vibrations .
Loud sounds can thus be obtained from a jet which is finer than the finest needle , and the arrangement constitutes a highly sensitive " transmitter .
" A jet transmitter , in its simplest form , consists essentially of a glass jet-tube which is rigidly attached to a sound-board , and supplied from an elevated reservoir containing some conducting liquid ( distilled water acidified with ^-^th of its volume of sulphuric acid is the best ) ; and a couple of platinum electrodes , embedded in an insulator , such as ebonite , against which the jet strikes .
The jet may issue from a circular orifice , about jth of a millimetre in diameter , in the blunt and thin-sided end of a small glass tube .
Much smaller jets may be used : but for one of the given size the pressure required for distinct transmission of all kinds of sounds will not exceed 30 inches .
The receiving surface is the rounded end of an ebonite rod , through the centre of which passes a platinum wire .
The upper end of the rod should be about 1 millimetre in diameter , and should be surrounded by a little tube of platinum ; and the end of the central wire and the upper margin of the tube should form a continuous slightly convex surface with the ebonite , free from irregularities .
The inner and outer platinum electrodes are joined respectively to the terminals of the circuit .
The jet is allowed to strike on the end of the central wire , , and thence radiating in the form of a nappe , comes into contact with the tube , thus completing the circuit .
The dimensions of the apparatus may be varied to suit jets of different sizes ; it is highly desirable , however , that the jet nappe should well overlap the inner margin of the ring-shaped electrode .
With small jets the impact disturbances are so feeble that slight precautions are necessary to insulate the receiving surface from the orifice , unless the former is placed low down in the path .
The strength of battery may be increased until the escape of electrolytic gas-bubbles causes a faint hissing noise in the telephone .
The liquid on its way to the jet should pass downwards through a wide tube lightly packed with coarse clean cotton , by which minute air-bubbles which violently disturb the jet , and small particles of dust which might obstruct the orifice , are stopped .
This tube should never be allowed to empty itself .
1886 .
] On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
Experiments are given to show that in this instrument the jet may act upon the electric current in two ways : firstly , by interposing a constantly changing liquid resistance between the electrodes ; and , secondly , by causing changes in the so-called " polarisation " of the electrodes .
In one form of instrument , namely , that in which both jet and electrodes are entirely immersed in a mass of liquid of the same kind as the jet liquid , the action must be entirely at the surface of the electrodes .
In the latter case a liquid jet becomes similar in structure and properties to a jet of air in air , and the velocity at different points when it is steady and when it is disturbed varies in precisely the manner already described .
The author briefly passes in review the leading facts to be accounted for , and lays stress upon the parallelism of the properties of gaseous and liquid jets .
Some shadow photographs of vibrating smoke jets have shown that these also present drop-like swellings and contractions which grow along the jet-path .
The most satisfactory explanation of the phenomena will then be one which refers the vibratory changes in jets of both kinds to the same origin .
The beautiful and well-known experiments of Plateau have supplied a satisfactory explanation of the normal vibrations of a liquid jet in air .
He has shown that a stationary liquid cylinder , whose length exceeds a certain multiple of its diameter , must break up under the influence of the " forces of figure " into shorter cylinders of definite length , which when liberated tend to contract into drops .
How , the-jet being regarded as such a stationary cylinder , we have a satisfactory explanation of the musical tone resulting when its discontinuous part strikes upon a stretched membrane , and when the impact disturbances may be in any way conducted back to the orifice .
These disturbances then accelerate the division of the jet after it leaves the orifice .
Plateau endeavoured to show that division of the jet might take place at other than the normal points , thus explaining Savart 's experimental conclusion that a jet can vibrate in sympathy with a limited range of tones .
Lord Rayleigh , moreover , has recently shown that the inferior limit of this range is not so sharply defined theoretically as Savart 's experiments would prove it to be .
Roth Savart and Magnus , however , describe experiments in which a water-jet , carefully protected from impact and other disturbances , does not exhibit the peculiar appearances characteristic of rhythmical division ; and the author 's experiments conclusively prove that this rhythmical division does not take place in a well insulated jet .
While the tendency so to divide may therefore be admitted , and the normal rate of vibration of the jet and its greater sensitiveness to particular tones may thereby be explained , Plateau 's theory cannot be held to account for the uniform growth along the jet-path of all changes , .
Mr. C. A. Bell .
[ May 13 , however complex their form .
For this growth takes place independently of the " forces of figure , " and under conditions in which they are entirely absent , as when a gaseous or liquid jet plays within a mass of fluid of its own kind .
The author is inclined rather to refer the properties of jets of all kinds to conditions of motion on which hitherto little stress has been laid , viz. , the unequal velocities at different points in the stream after it has left the orifice .
From the axis towards the circumference of a jet near the orifice the velocity diminishes continuously , and the motions of the stream may be regarded as resultants of the motions of an infinite series of parallel and coaxial vortex-rings .
In many respects , in fact , the appearance of a jet resembles the appearance of a vortex-ring projected from the same orifice .
Thus a jet from a circular orifice , like a vortex-ring from a round aperture , remains always circular .
In a frictionless fluid a vortex-ring , uninfluenced by other vortices , would remain of constant diameter ; a condition to which a horizontal liquid jet approximates .
When , however , the ring moves through a viscous fluid it experiences retardation and expansion , which are precisely the changes which a jet playing in a fluid of its own kind undergoes .
The vibrating smoke-ring projected from an elliptical aperture changes its form in exactly the same manner as a jet , at sufficiently low pressure , from an elliptical orifice .
These analogies might be considerably extended .
In a liquid jet in air , or in a vacuum , internal friction must gradually equalise the velocities .
At a distance from the orifice , therefore , depending on the viscosity of the liquid , such a jet must approach the condition of a cylinder at rest , and must tend to divide in accordance with Plateau 's law .
The rapidity with which drops are formed depends mainly on the superficial tension of the liquid .
The length of the continuous column should therefore bear some inverse ratio to the viscosity and superficial tension of the liquid ; a view which is in harmony with the results of Savart 's experiments , and some of the author 's , in this direction .
Where the jet plays into a fluid of its own kind the retardation and expansion which it experiences are mainly due to its parting with its energy to the surrounding medium .
When , as a result of vibration , growing swellings and contractions are formed in it , this loss must be more rapid , and the jet therefore shows a diminution of mean velocity along the axis , which increases with the distance from the orifice .
Such being the conditions , it is evident that any impulse communicated to the fluid , either behind or external to the orifice , or to the orifice itself , must alter the vorticity of the stream .
That vortex-rings are generated by impulses of the first kind is well known ; the action when the orifice is moved is intelligible , if we consider that a forward motion of it will produce acceleration , a backward motion 1886 .
] On the Sympathetic Vibrations of Jets .
retardation , of the outer layers of the jet .
As the result of a rapid to-and-fro motion we may .
then imagine two vortex-rings to be developed\#151 ; the foremost layer of greater energy and moving more slowly than the hindmost .
These two rings in their onward course will then act on each other in a known manner ; the first will grow in size and energy at the expense of the second , at the same time diminishing in velocity ; the second will contract while its velocity increases .
The inequalities in cross-section , initiated at the orifice , thus tend to grow along the jet-path , and will be attended also by growing inequalities of the normal and rotational velocities of the particles .
Since the stream lines of a vortex-ring are crowded together at its centre , the disturbances produced by impact of the jet-rings will be greatest along the axis , and least along the circumference .
Indeed the sound disturbances produced by impact of a common vortex-ring are quite analogous to those of a vibrating jet .
Let an air-ring be projected into a trumpet-shaped tube connected .with the ear , and little more than a rushing noise will result .
But let it be projected against a small orifice in the hearing-tube , and a sharp click will be heard at the moment of impact .
This click is loud when the centre of the ring strikes the tube , but faint , although still of the same character , when produced from the circumference .
The foregoing considerations may be extended to cases in which the motions of the orifice are complex vibrations .
Expansions and contractions are then initiated in the fluid proportional at every point to the velocity of the orifice .
The inequalities must tend to further diverge in the manner described .
Similar considerations apply to cases in which the motions of the orifice are the result of lateral impulses .
In these cases the rings formed in the jet will not be perpendicular to its direction , and in their onward course may possibly vibrate about a mean position .
The author further points out how the viscosity and surface-tension of the fluid may influence its sensitiveness .
When the surface-tension is very high , as in mercury , it produces a tendency in the jet to break easily under the influence of moderate impulses .
The foregoing is little more than the outlines of a new theory of jet-vibrations .
The author hopes to supply in the future further experimental evidence in support of it .

