On the Selective Conductivity of Polarising Substances .
433 44 On the Selective Conductivity exhibited by certain Polarising Substances .
" By Jagadis Chunder Bose , M.A. , D.Sc .
, Professor of Physical Science , Presidency College , Calcutta .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , F.R.S. Received January 14 , \#151 ; Read January 28 , 1897 .
In my paper " On the Polarisation of Electric Rays by Double-refracting Crystals " { vide 1 Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal , ' May , 1895 ) , and in a subsequent paper " On a New Electro-Polari-scope " ( ' Electrician , ' 27th December , 1895 ) , I have given accounts of the polarising property of various substances .
Amongst the most efficient polarisers maybe mentioned nemalite and cbrysotile .
Nemalite is a fibrous variety of brucite .
In its chemical composition it is a hydrate of magnesia , with a small quantity of protoxide of iron and carbonic acid .
This substance is found to absorb very strongly electric vibrations parallel to its length , and transmit those that are perpendicular to the length .
I shall distinguish the two directions as the directions of absorption and transmission .
Chrysotile is a fibrous variety of serpentine .
In chemical composition it is a hydrous silicate of magnesia .
Like nemalite , it also exhibits selective absorption , though not to the same extent .
The transmitted vibrations are perpendicular , and those absorbed parallel to the length .
Different varieties of these substances exhibit the above property to a greater or less extent .
I have recently obtained a specimen of chrysotile with a thickness of only 25 cm .
; this piece completely polarises the transmitted electric ray by selective absorption .
The action of these substances on the electric ray is thus similar to that of tourmaline on light .
It may be mentioned here that I found tourmaline to be an inefficient polariser of the electric ray ; it does transmit the ordinary and the extraordinary rays with unequal intensities , but even a considerable thickness of it does not completely absorb one of the two rays .
In Hertz 's polarising gratings , electric vibrations are transmitted perpendicular to the wires , the vibrations parallel to the wires being reflected or absorbed .
Such gratings would be found to exhibit electric anisotropy , the conductivity in the direction of the wires being very much greater than the conductivity across the wires .
The vibrations transmitted through the gratings are thus perpendicular to the direction of maximum conductivity\#151 ; or parallel to the direction of greatest resistance .
The vibration absorbed is parallel to the direction of maximum conductivity .
As the nemalite and chrysotile polarised the electric ray by unequal absorption in the two directions , I was led to investigate whether 434 Prof. J. C. Bose .
On Selective Conductivity they , too , exhibited unequal conductivities in the two directions of absorption and transmission .
Nemalite , unfortunately , is difficult to obtain , and the specimens I could get here were too small to make the necessary measurements .
I have , however , in my possession two specimens which I brought from India ; of these , one is a perfect specimen of a fair size , and I obtained with it strong polarisation effects .
The second piece is not as good as the first , and rather small in size .
I cut from this latter piece a square of uniform thickness , the adjacent sides of the square being parallel to the directions of transmission and absorption respectively .
The resistances of equal lengths in the two directions ( with the same cross section ) were now measured .
The first specimen I gave to Messrs. Elliott Brothers for measurement .
They informed me , on the 13th of October last , that the resistance in the direction of transmission was found to be 35,000 megohms , and that in the direction of absorption , only 14,000 megohms .
It will thus be seen that the direction of absorption is also the direction of greatest conductivity , and the direction of transmission is the direction of least conductivity .
My anticipations being thus verified , I proceeded to make further measurements with other specimens .
From the perfect specimen of nemalite in my possession , I cut two square pieces , A and B. The size of piece A is 2'56x2'56 cm .
, with a thickness of IT cm .
B is 2-76 x 2-76x1-2 cm .
For the determination of resistances I used a sensitive Kelvin galvanometer , having a resistance of 7000 ohms .
With three Leclanche cells , F4 volt each , and an interposed resistance equivalent to 55,524 megohms , a deflection of 1 division in the scale reading was obtained .
The following table ( p. 435 ) gives the results of the measurements which I carried out .
The results given clearly show how the difference of absorption in the two directions is related to the corresponding difference in conductivity .
I then proceeded to make measurements with chrysotile .
The specimens I could obtain were not very good .
I cut two from the same piece , and a third specimen was obtained from a different variety .
The ratios of conductivities found in the three specimens were 1 : 10 , 1 : 9 , and 1 : 4 respectively .
In every case the direction of absorption was found to be the direction of maximum conductivity .
[ A fibrous variety of gypsum ( CaS04 ) , popularly known as Satin-spar , also exhibits double absorption ; and in this case , too , the conductivity in the direction of absorption is found to be very much greater than in that of transmission .
exhibited by certain Polarising Substances .
435 Specimen A. Deflections .
Resistance between two opposed faces 2 56 x 1*1 cm .
separated by 2 *56 cm .
Ratio of the conductivities .
In the direction of transmission " " absorption. .
26 360 2136 megohms 154 } 1 : 13 '8 Specimen B. Deflections .
Resistance between two opposed faces 2*76 x 1*2 cm .
separated by 2*76 cm .
* Ratio of the conductivities .
In the direction of transmission " " absorption. .
28 370 1983 megohms 150 | 1 : 13 -4 One of the strongest polarising substances I have come across is the crystal epidote .
The crystal is very small in size , and I could not get with it complete absorption of one of the two rays .
But it exhibits very strong depolarisation effect , even with a thickness as small as 07 cm .
This is , undoubtedly , due to strong selective absorption in one direction .
1 cut a square from this crystal 07 x0'7 cm .
with a thickness of 0'4 cm .
Using an E.M.F. of 14 volts the deflections obtained ( proportional to the two conductivities ) were 105 and 20 divisions respectively .
The conductivities in the two directions are , therefore , in the ratio of 5*2 : 1 .
With an E.M.F. of 100 volts and a diminished sensibility of the galvanometer , the deflections were 205 and 40 , the ratio of the conductivities being as 51 : 1.\#151 ; January 28 , 1897 .
] It would thus appear that substances like nemalite which polarise by double absorption , also exhibit double conductivity .
It is probable that , owing to this difference of conductivity in the two directions , each thin layer unequally absorbs the incident electric vibrations ; and that by the cumulative effect of many such layers , the vibrations which are perpendicular to the direction of maximum conductivity nre alone transmitted , the emergent beam being thus completely polarised .
[ Owing to the great difficulty in obtaining suitable specimens , I have not been able to make a more extended series of determinations .
The relation found , in the cases described above , between \#166 ; double absorption and double conductivity is , however , suggestive .
436 On the Selective Conductivity of Polarising Substances .
It should , however , he borne in mind , that the selective absorption exhibited , by a substance depends , also , on the vibration frequency of the incident radiation .
I have drawn attention to the peculiarity of tourmaline which does not exhibit double absorption of the electric ray to a very great extent .
The specimen I experimented with is , however , one of a black variety of tourmaline , and not of the semir transparent kind generally used for optical work .
Though the experiments already described are not sufficiently numerous for drawing a general conclusion as to the connection between double absorption attended with polarisation , and double conductivity , there is , however , a large number of experiments I have carried out which seem to show that a double-conducting structure does , as a rule , exhibit double absorption and consequent polarisation .
Out of these experiments I shall here mention one which may prove interesting .
Observing that an ordinary book is unequally conducting in the two directions\#151 ; parallel to and across the pages\#151 ; I interposed it , with its edge at 45 ' , between the crossed polariser and analyzer of an electro-polariscope .
The extinguished field of radiation was immediately restored .
I then arranged both the polariser and the analyzer vertical and parallel , and interposed the book with its edge parallel to the direction of electric vibration .
The radiation was found completely absorbed by the book , and there was not the slightest action on the receiver .
On holding the book with its edge at right angles to the electric vibration , the electric ray was found copiously transmitted .
An ordinary book would thus serve as a perfect polariser of the electric ray .
The vibrations parallel to the pages are completely absorbed , and those at right angles transmitted in a perfectly polarised condition.\#151 ; January 28 , 1897 .
]

