XXVIII .
" On the Mechanical Description of Curves .
" By W. H. L. RUSSELL , F.R.S. Received June 17 , 1869 .
Let A , B , C be three wheels rolling in one another ( fig. ) ; they may of course be supposed to describe simultaneously the angles mO , nO , rO , when m , n , and r are constant .
Fig. 1 .
Let a , 3 , y be three nuts situated on A , B , C respectively , at distances a , b , c from their centres .
Then if these nuts work in horizontal bars ( as exemplified in many sewing-machines ) , the bars will descend vertically 72 [ June 17 , through the spaces a sin mO , b sin nO , c sin rO respectively .
We may combine all these vertical motions together ; for if vertical rods be attached to the horizontal bars , and a cord fixed at Q pass over the pulleys a , , A , a3 bl , B2 , b , c1 , C2 , c , , as shown in the figure , the other extremity Q1 will describe the space a sin mO+ b sin nO +c sin rO .
By this contrivance we are able to combine any number of vertical descents , so that it is readily seen that a sin ( mO+a)+b sin ( nO+f3)+ &amp;c. may be described mechanically .
A machine on the same principle as this had been previously invented by Mr. Bashforth .
I soon perceived that in order to describe the general equation of the rth order by continued motion , it was necessary to make a wheel revolve through an angle equal to the sum and difference of the angles described in the same time by two given wheels ; to effect this I invented the apparatus shown in fig. 2 .
Fig. 2 .
In fig. 2 let A be a vertical wheel working truly in a horizontal rack R. , which propels the horizontal frame a , f , y , 8 .
On this frame stand the wheels B and D parallel to the plane of the paper .
The wheel C , supposed perpendicular to the plane of the paper , works by teeth in the wheels B and D , and the four wheels A , B , C , D are precisely equal .
To the centre of C is attached a square axis , which passes through the centre of the wheel E , so that the wheel E in revolving may , without changing its plane , communicate motion to C as the frame moves forward .
Two horizontal racks , R2 , R , , parallel to the plane of the paper , are urged by the wheels B and D ; and these , again , work in the fixed wheels F and G , equal to A , B , C , D in all respects .
Then if the wheel A describe in a given time the angle 0 , and the wheel E in the same time the angle ?
, the wheels F and G will revolve respectively in the same time through the angles 0+ ?
and 0-- .
We shall call the wheel A an abscissa wheel , the wheel E , an ordinate wheel , for reasons which will appear directly , also F an addition wheel , and Ga subtraction wheel .
Let x=a sin 0 , y=a sin 9 , then the general equation of the rth order may be written a sin ( mO + no ) + a ' sin ( m'O--n'p ) + a " sin ( m"0 + n"1 ) ... .a sin 0 .
Let a number of machines like the foregoing be placed side by side with their ordinate wheels rolling in one another , and their abscissa wheels duly connected .
Let one abscissa wheel describe an angle mO , and the corresponding ordinate wheel the angle no , then a nut placed on the corresponding addition wheel , at a distance a from its centre , will cause a horizontal bar to descend vertically through a space a sin ( mO +nq ) .
In the same way a nut properly placed on the subtraction wheel will cause a horizontal bar to descend vertically through a space a sin ( mO--no ) .
By means of the adjacent machines we may in like manner cause bars to descend through the vertical spaces , a " sin ( m'O -n'p ) , a " ' sin ( m'O--n ) ) , &amp;c. Now let motion be communicated to the ordinate wheels , and let all the vertical motions due to the addition and subtraction wheels be combined together and made to act vertically upon a nut in one of the abscissa wheels ; then the angles 0 , p , will satisfy the equation a sin ( mO + no ) + a ' sin ( mO-n9 ) + a " sin ( m'+ n ' ) ... =a sin 0 , which is the general equation of the rth order .
Therefore two bars moved respectively horizontally and vertically by nuts in the wheels describing the angles 0 and 9 will trace by their intersection the required curve .

