A Paper was read , entitled , " On the performance of fluid re ?
fracting telescopes , and on the applicability of this principle of construction to very large instruments .
" By Peter Barlow , Esq. F.R.S. Corresponding Member of the Institute of France , of the Imperial Academy of Petersburg , &amp;c. In the first part of this paper the author adduces proofs of the efficacy of telescopes constructed with fluid lenses , on the principles developed in his two former papers , published in the Philosophical Transactions , in separating double stars , resolving nebulae , and exhibiting different appearances in the discs of the planets .
He institutes , with this view , a comparison between the performance of his telescope of 8 inches aperture and 12 feet in length , with Mr. Herschers telescope , made with his new 20 inches speculum , and with Sir James South 's new refractor , of 12 inches aperture and 20 feet fo ?
cal length .
In Mr. Barlow 's telescope y Persei , which is marked as double in South and Herschel 's catalogue , is seen distinctly sextuple .
The stars composing o* Orionis , marked in the catalogue as two dis ?
tinct sets of stars , each triple , are shown in Mr. Barlow 's telescope as being both quadruple , with two very fine stars between them .
A very fine double star was discovered by Mr. Herschel between the two which compose / 3 Capricorni , and was considered by him as a very severe test : this star is seen distinctly in Mr. Barlow 's telescope , but not double .
Messier 's 22nd nebula is resolved by Sir James South 's telescope into an immense number of brilliant small stars .
In Mr. Bar ?
low 's telescope the same resolution is effected , though somewhat less completely .
The two last-mentioned instances he considers as affording excellent criteria of the exact limits of the power of the instrument .
Mr. Barlow next examined Jupiter and Mars in order to com ?
pare the defining powers of the two instruments .
Both these planets were more sharply defined in Sir James South 's telescope than in that of the author , but in this respect the superiority of the former instrument was by no means as great as he expected : and in the exhibition of the shadow of one of Jupiter 's satellites passing over his disc , there was no apparent difference between the two instruments .
When applied to Mars , the former with a power of 1200 , the latter with one of 260 , the effects were nearly equal .
An experience of three years has not shown the slightest perceptible change in either the quantity or quality of the fluid employed as the lens of the author 's three-inch telescope ; neither has the glass enclosing it suffered any diminution of its transparency .
The author conceives it , therefore , to be sufficiently established , that sulphuret of carbon is capable of supplying all the properties of flint-glass , which are required in the construction of a telescope ; and moreover , that in consequence of its high dispersive power , it admits of being placed so far behind the principal lens of plate , or crown-glass , as to require to be only one half of the diameter of the latter .
This combination also gives a focal power of one and a half time the length of the tube ; and consequently the telescope may be reduced in length to two thirds of that which a glass telescope of the usual construction would require for an equal amount of spherical aberration .
In the conclusion of his paper , the author proposes what he considers as a great improvement in the plan of construction for very large telescopes on this principle : it consists in making the object-lenses double , by which their spherical aber ?
ration may at once be reduced to about one fourth of its present amount , and will then admit of easy correction by a fluid lens , without requiring the inconvenient curvatures for its surfaces which are now necessary .
This construction will also be attended with the advantage of requiring a much smaller thickness in the plateglass , and will thus facilitate the selection of proper pieces of glass for being worked into an object lens .
From all these considerations , the author entertains the confident expectation of being able , with proper assistance , to construct a telescope of two feet aperture and 24 feet in length , which would as much exceed the most powerful telescopes of the present day , as these exceed the refractors which existed at the close of the last century .

