3 .
" On the Condition of certain Elements at the moment of Chemical Change .
" By B. C. Brodie , Esq. , F.R.S. This paper contains an experimental inquiry , founded upon certain theoretical considerations as to the condition of bodies at the moment of chemical change , with the discussion of which the introduction is occupied .
The author considers that the peculiar combining properties of the elemental particles of which chemical substances are composed , are due to a chemical polarity of the acting masses , which takes place at the contact of the bodies , and have only a remote relation to the electro-chemical nature of the isolated element .
In support of this view are cited the phenomena of double decomposition , and the properties of the so-called " nascent " elements , which could never be inferred from the nature of the element when once isolated and formed .
Double decomposition the author considers to be the true type of ' all chemical action .
In the case of the bodies called compound , this polarity is manifested by the division of the substance into two parts , which are universally considered to stand to one another in a certainpositive and negative relation ; and also by the synthesis , which corresponds to this division .
The object of the paper is to point out that an analogous polar relation exists , at the moment of chemical change , between the particles of which the elemental bodies themselves are composed , of which condition we have evidence both when the isolated element is chemically acted on by other bodies , and also in certain cases of the formation of the element from its compounds , in which we have a division and synthesis of the eleiment corresponding ( so far as this polar relation is considered ) to the division and synthesis of a compound body .
The evidence of these statements is , that when the isolated elemelt is chemically acted upon , we may observe in it ( as manifested by its combining properties ) the same polar or nascent state as is developed in compound bodies ; and also that we have certain remarkable cases of the synthesis of the element , to account for which we must assumne the same combining relation between its particles as between the particles of which a compound substance is formed .
These statements are supported by numerous instances .
The experimental inquiry relates to a remarkable case of the formation of oxygen , in which the author considers that the mutual attraction of the particles of that element determines the decomposition of the substances from which it is evolved .
The experiment in question is the mutual decomposition which the peroxide of hydrogen and certain metallic oxides , first discovered by Thenard , undergo when in contact .
Thus the author regards , in this case , the decomposition of the metallic oxide as a phrenomenon which may be represented thus:+1102 +mO2 -HOO HO+-O HIO2 ~ m-tO , =OOO1O m. HO + O ?
+ mO , the metallic peroxide being reduced by the polar particle of oxygen , as in other cases it might be by hydrogen itself .
The proof that such a chemical relation really exists between the particles of oxygen , would be found in the proportion in which the two substances were reduced .
The paper contains an elaborate inquiry on this point in the case of the chloride and of the oxide of silver ; the general result of which is , that these substances are capable of being reduced in various but definite proportions , according as the conditions of temperature and mass are varied .
All the terms of this series of ratios have not been determined ; but it is ascertained that the relative loss for the two substances proceeds by intermittent steps , and that the whole action is confined between the limits of the ratio-of equality on the one hand , and the purely catalytic action ( in which the metallic oxide .
would suffer no reduction ) on the other ; neither of which limits is ever absolutely reached .
The constant loss of oxygen from the decomposing bodies in equal equivalent proportions is found in the reaction of the peroxide of barium with iodine in the presence of water .
In this experiment , the water in the presence of the iodine is reduced just as the peroxide in the other experiments ; but here the loss is constant , and the change may be represented thus:--+-+-+ IHOOOBaIBa + HO+ 0 , .
In this experiment no oxide of iodine whatever is formed , and the author considers that the formation of the oxygen itself is here the corresponding fact to the formation of the iodous acid , which takes place when iodine acts upon baryta .

