]\gt ; 422 Prof. G. A. Schott .
The Electromagnetic reference to the determinant of failure .
It has already been hown that if structure of any number of simple supports so spaced as to be critical under loading , then the addition of one more bay at the end will have a effect , provided that the length of the bay is not ireater than the length of ] 's strut .
Remembering that the substitution a for a } ) support is ultimately merely the addition of nother bay of infinitely small length , it follows that clampi1lg one or both ends equivalent to a direct addition of strength .
The exact determination the magnitude of this increased safety is , of course , to be obtained by finding the smallest root of the determinant regarded as an equation in fact , the whole problem of the most efficient disposition of the supports to provide the strongest structure , in the sense that the critical longitudinal force is a maximum among those for all possible dispositions , can be treated with comp arative simplicity by a discussion of the determinants already set down .
authors are indebted to Prof. Love for his helpful Cl.iticisnlS and valuable suggestions , the notation .
Electromagnetic Lorentz Electron .
By .
A. SCHOTT , B.A. , D.Sc .
, ofessor of Applied Mathematics , UJliversity College .
Wales , Aberystwyth .
( Communicated by Prof. J. W. Nicholson , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1918 .
) 1 .
In a receJJt paper*on " " The ective Inertia of Electrified Systems with High Speed G. W. Walker extends his previous investigation the case of a perfectly conducting oblate spheroid , whose axis lies in the direction motion , for the time being , of its centre , whose tricity equal to where denotes the ratio of ) ) of the centre to that light , also for the instant under considel'ation .
He finds ( Note 1 ) that the and transverse masses are equal respectively to and ) , ( 1 ) tead of and given by mass formulae of Lorelttz and requiled by the of Relativity .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 93 , p. 448 ( 1917 ) .
Inertia The method the raised to the assumption of quasi-stationary llotion , which is the ordinary method of the sses , it requires assumptions to be made at the outset both as to the lstitution of the electron and as to the conditions at its surface whenever definite formation is needed .
These assun ) ptio ) ) iously limit the generality of the tion , so it is opeu to the objecti( Wnlker 's of electron is one , precisely ) it nul the inciple of elativity .
ten a of ti the electr of an eleL from of eury , hout n assumptions speclin either the structure of the electron nature of notioIt , whether or othel.wise , until the fusion the part of This formed the asis ot Chaptur XI tams Prize Essay , and published in in Jook on ' ' Appendices atltl l ) .
) In this method the retarded } ) dne it element of charge uloving in any assigned nlanner are developed series , of which the ) terms the potentials of the element due to uniform motion with the velocity at the instant considered .
whilst the q terlns are derived from them by definitely assigned } ) erations , and involve the acceleration of various orders .
The electric , uetic , and mechanical forces on a second nent of charge are derived by the usual operations , and the resultant force on the electron is ined by a double integration over all the pairs of elements of charge in the form ) a selieq ) to ascending verse of a length which nreb the linear dimensions the electron\mdash ; the radius the Abrahanl .
the transverse radius for the electron .
) ) this erieR for the internal on the electron are of the form may be idelltified with the electromaguetic monlent]n the ; it is of the order / , and depends only the tion of the electron , on the relative motion of its } ) , and on velocity of its centre , all the instant under consideration .
It ives rise to principal term in the expression the resultant in ternal nagnelic force , the only ternl found in the ordinary energy method .
it .
, p. 246 , eqnation ( 341 ) .
Prof. G. A. Schott .
Thae Electromagnetic represents the reaction due to radiation ; it does not depend on the configuration of the electron , nor on the relative motion of parts , but only on the velocity , acceleration , and acceleration of the second order of its centre .
It of order zero in , and is very small compared with the incipal tern ) , except when the speed is nearly equal to that of light and the accelerations are very large .
On p. 183 of my book I have estimated arising from ecting it in the case of a -particle moving in an electrostatic tield of 1,000,000 volts per centimetre .
With a minimum speed of that of light , I find it to be less than two parts in 10,000,000,000 .
an electron lnoving in an orbit of atomic dimensions , the error would be much greater , but still quite unimportant , unless the were very nearly equal to that of The next term of the series is of order and depends on the velocity and the ccelerations of the first , second , and third orders , and so on .
These higher , could be calculated if it were worth while , but in all practical cases we can obtain a sufficient idea of the rate of convergence of the series from ] its first two terms .
It is tant to notice that , according to my results , the error made in assuming quasi-stationary motion arises from and the higher terms , but cannot affect the principal term .
3 .
By applying this method to the Lorentz I ) tain precisely the two Lorentz mass formulae , in fall reement with the ordinary , but differing from Walker 's result .
The discrepancy is all the more serious in that it occurs in the principal term , and for this reason casts rave doubts on the accuracy of the most fundamental investigations of the Electron heol V In looking for the cause of this discrepancy one is struck at once by the fact that Walker assumes .
( hi symbol for the ratio of the speed of the to that of light , usually denoted by ) to be constant .
On p. 452 of his per he ' It might be argued that I ought to have supposed that the cacted electron should alter in shape as the acceleration proceeds .
But the difficulty is to know how it alters .
There is no correspondence between accelerated motions at erent speeds such as can be proved for speeds , for the transformation entirely reaks down if velocity is not constant .
One , as a pure hypothesis which has no ation , assume that is deformed according to the same law as olds for uniform velocity .
This could be worked out , and might lead to a order term ( in acceleration ) for inertia , but clearly would to only second order terms for transverse inertia .
But this appears to me boo speculative to ] ) of any value at present , .
Inertia of the Electron .
4 .
It appears to me that it is of the essence of the Lorentz electron that its shape should alter as its acceleration proceeds , and that in such a manner as to correspond to its speed at each instant ; at any rate , that is the assumption tacitly made in my own investigation and , I believe , in all others except Walker 's .
At the same time , I thought it worth while to follow out the consequences of Walker 's assumptionl of a constant by my owlt method , as I had the material for such an investigationl ready to hand .
On p. 260 of netic Radiation ' I have given expressions for netic masses of a orentz electron , which can be utilised for this purpose .
The defornmation is supposed to be small and constant , whilst that of Walker:s electron increases proport to the time measured from the ins tant at which the speed is ut to be made zero ultilnately , so that the smallness creates no .
The electromagnetic momentum , on the other hand , depends on the relative velocities of the parts of the cCron , so that variability of the tion of Walker 's electron from Lorentz 's tolll might be ) to difficulty .
This , however , is not so , for I have shown on p. 24 my book that the relative motion in Che electl 0nnetic mentnm vanishes identically for an electron which , like Lol'entz 's electron , is netrical w respect to the centre .
5 .
In using the expressions question luust beal in lnind that actual electron at time , which is appinatly of Lorentz 's form , is for convenience of calculation by in the direetion of motion in the ratio , where denotes the ratio of the speed of the electron at time to that of light , a process which changes the Lorenbz electron with axes into a sphere of radius .
The electron thus transformed is assumed to be given the equation of its .
{ 4 The quantity so mall that its quare ; higher can : neglected ; the axis of the spherical harmonic is supposed to make an angle with the direction of motion of the electron measured in the plane of its orbit towards the principal nornlal .
The -ordinates an element of the transformed electron are referred to the tangent , rincipal normal , and -normal of the orbit .
The and } , compononts of the electronlagnetic momentum are iven by the equati oitH Prof. G. A. Schott .
The gnetic Here and uoteh t } ) of the electron at the time , and the prestiions a to a surface charge , of uniform density on the .
sformed electron , but of density proportional to the perpendicular from the centre the plane of the actual Lorentz electron before deformation .
6 .
We hall first apply these } ) ressions to Walker 's first case of an electroll in a line with acceleration ( in his notation ) .
At the peed is given by , while is zero .
From ( 4 ) we that the tangential and transverse radii of the transformed electron are equal to and respectively ; hence those of the actual electron equal to reslJectively .
But the same values electron are and respectively , where the suffix tHed for the moment to uish the two electrons .
Equating correwe find to the first order in Substituting hese values in ( 5 ) find , putting , and for while obviously vanishes .
Using ) and ' on the supposition is constant we obtain the resultant internal electromagnetic force on tlJe electron ' ( 7 ) whilst vanishes .
The coefficient of the acceleration in ( 7 ) is the longitudinal electronetic mass and agrees with the first of Walker 's expressions ( 1 ) .
7 .
Walker 's second case is more difficult to investigate .
So .
as I underhis edure from the very brief description given in his } ) aper , he seelnb to treat the electron as a rigid perfect conductor , which coincides at the instant with the Lorentz electron as before , but lloves without tion , so that at the time its axis deviates from that of the Lorentz electron by the small , measured in the osculating plane towards the ( side the ) .
Here denotes the angular velocity of the electron in orbit , so that the acceleration is equal bo , where constantly equal to .
Thus the equation of the surface of Walker 's electron l.eferred to the tangent , principal normal and binormal of the orbit at tinle t as axes becomes on this supposition or the Electron .
to the first order in the angle the inverse transformation , we ( ind that the equation ot the transformed lValker'f electron Two principal lie in the osculating plane angles and the tangent , whilst the length the Helui-axes are to ) ectively .
the write the equation in ( 8 ) is from the axis frtlll tely we find that th two principal ipecl i the two es )btai .
( 9 ) Owing tu the of nd , the plinciple of holds and ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) each contain two terms sponding to and .
In the first the two terms clearly cancel each other , in the second they are equal .
Bearing in mind that , in the } ) esent c .
In using ( 3 ) we must bear in mind that the axes are .
with the angular velocity , hence we hat the resultant internal force on the electron ab the I ilne f by ( IO ) The value ) differs that by by having a ternl inside the bracket in the ator in place of 8 .
One difficulty remains which requires examination .
In the three preceding sections have assumed the surface density of the transformed electron to be uniform , or , what amounts to the , that of the actual electron to be proportional to , the perpendicular the centre on the tangenlt plane .
But the surface density of Walker 's electron not proportional to simply ; in the first case it involves a smadl term , of the first order in the acceleration , proportional to , and , in the second case , similar small terms proportional to , as we see Irom his expressions for givcn on p. and on p. 451 respectively .
I shall now prove that small additional terms in the surface den.qity do nob affect the expressions 428 .
G. A. .
The Electromagnetic ( 7 ) so long as we confine our investigation to terms of the first oldel .
The proof depends upon the following propositions , which are stated riefly as possible:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Suppose that a slightly deformed Lorentz electron of uniform volume ( lellsity is transformed by the Lorentz transformation , , so that the equation of the bounding surface of the transfornled becomes of the form .
Then the only terms which ence the electrolnagnetic masses are which This proposition is proved on ) of ' gnetic Radiation .
( 2 ) Let the equation of surface be of the form , ( 11 ) where a ho1nogeneous function of , for instance , the rmonic associated with , and is a small coefficient as efore .
the perpendicular from the origin on the tangent plane is equal the , squares and products of the 's being neglected .
facr , if the directio ] } be , we have in succession , , etc. , , etc. , terms of order Consider a homoeoid of volume density , bounded by the with radii and , where ( 13 ) A is infinitely large initely small , but so that is finite and equal to timately .
is a homogeneous function of of degree instance , a spherical harmonic of order , and is a small ccefficient of t , he order of Ther ' the homoeoid is equivalent to a surface distribution of density on the surface ( 11 ) , where In lact , the thickness of the homoeoid is equal to , and the surface density to the limit of whilst to the first order by proposition 2 ) .
( 4 ) Let us as a transformed electron , to which corresponds an Inertia of the Lorentz Electron .
actual electron with surface den sity , and perpendicular on the plane .
Then the surface densities and are connected by the equation .
( 14 ) Apply the Lorentz transformation , bearing in mind that it elements of charge nnaltered , changes elements of volume in the ratio .
If corresponding surface elements be and , then sponding elements of while corresponding of and .
Hence we have , whence the result follows .
lacing Z and in ( 11 ) , ( 12 ) , and ) ) by and tively , where the 's denote zonal harmonics as usual , we write place of in the small termls ; it follows that the total of the homoeoid in ( [ 3 ) is equal to Then we may express the result of the last sectiun as follows:\mdash ; Let the homoeoid , with total charge , whose inner surface by ( 12 ) , where and now denote spherical harlnonics , be transformed the transfornlation appropriate to the motion for the time being of its centre , , Then the Cransfol.med homoeoid is a chalge of density ovel the surface whose equation is ( 11 ) , vltPre .
9 .
In order to apply this result to Walker 's electrons , for which terms proportional to pectively , we need only take / proportional to the zonal harmonics used in ( 4 ) and ( 8 ) respectivel tional and respectively , so that is uniCy in each case .
Then the corresponding transformed electrons are tlivalent to lluitor1ll homoeoids , whose inner boundaries are given by equations of the type with , and By proposition ( 1 ) the small deviation from the Lorentz electron not influence the netic masses , whilst the second gives the expressions ( 7 ) and ( 10 ) respectively as before .
10 .
It has been already stated in Section 4 that the electromagnetic momentum ends on the relative motion the parts of the electron , as well as tion , and it be , that the relative motion term account for the diHcrepancy between ( 10 ) and expression for the mass , but this is not so .
The relative lnotion term in question is given 1 ) } ) .
of ' Electromagnetic Radiation ' ; it of order in but eve ] ] if 430 Prof. G. A. bott .
Tl , ' , it would di , } ) peat .
in the Lorentz electron there is rotation , but there is als symlnebry with pect to the centre ; on the ocher hand , in electron there is no sylnllletry with respect to the centre ; but , if I u1ldel'tand Walker , there no rotation and efore elative motion .
A clne is affor the ) of the last terln , in pression tor on 1 ) .
451 of Walker paper , for thi term wheIl tiplied by the term in rated o the electron ( ccounts fthe discrepanc ) : but 1 have 1loC ) able to trace it ) $ource from the very brief ( Notes 1 and 3 .
) Be that as it , the Ctenel areenlent ( apart from this discrepancy ) the results ) by different lnethods lust be rarded a a welcome collfirmation of the accuracy of the calculations , and in opinion leaves little oubt that the rences between Walker 's and ' are after all due to Walker'H assumption of a contracted electron , which does not alter in shape as the aoceIeration ( Note 4 ) .
Hence his lesults do not appear to me to constitute an against the ) , or the Principle of Belativity , at rate so his resulting mass tornlulae do not afford a agreement with experiment so decidedly superior a to theoretical considerations .
I think that it will be prett enerally admitted that the mass formulae of of all others from the point of view of pure theory , in so far as they are consistent with the Principle of Relativity and in addition adtnit of the possibility of a mechanical explanation of the electron , shown in Electromagnetic Radiation , ' Appendices and , whatever this vorGh in the future .
But , what is perhaps more important the practical point of view , afford the basis for a comparatively and workal le ltlechanic of the electron , as I have shown in ' ElectroEadiation , ' Appendices and G. This nlvantage of simplicity , which is almost essential the point of view of economy of thought , is not shared by the more complicated formulae , such as those of Abraham and Walker .
Thus the supel.iority of any one of the latter over the formula of Lorentz in respect of reement with experiment would require to be bremely marked before it could be adopted in preference .
11 .
When the experimental evidence is examined no marked difference is observed between the two formulae for the transverse mass , and indeed all that Walker claims is that his formula as as.that of Lorentz in this espe , , and that the expeliments so far perfortned cannot between them .
Walker does not appeal to be acquainted with the very careful and Inertia of the Lorentz Electron .
extensive series of experiments of Neumaun .
* These were made by Buoherer 's method and confirmed his results fully .
In all 55 plates were obtained , including all preliminary attempts , of which 26 were good enough be measured .
Of these 22 , taken between and , gave an agreement with the Lorentz formula with a probable error in the specific charge , , of per cent. ; the remaining 4 , taken between and , indicated that the specific charge , , increased faster than it should according to the Lorentz formula , by perhaps 2 per cent. The last result is regarded as doubtful by Neumann on account of the small number of experiments and the large experimental errors to which measurements at such high speeds are liable ; proposes to extend his experiments in this direction .
If the result should be confirmed it would hardly be likely to make much erence in the relative performances of the two formulae , although it might require the addition of some proportion of nonelectromagnetic mass to the formula of Lorentz .
This is a possibility that I also have had in mind for some years in connection with the ett'ect due to the second order terms in the internal electromagnetic force , those in the radiation pressure ; this investigation , however , is not yet pleted .
Nevertheless , the results obtained so far indicate that further experiments on the specific mass of the electron for speeds from upwards are very urgently needed .
For my own palt I doubt whether experiments at these high speeds on the old lines can be expected to yield very good to the smallness of the deflections to be measured and the comparatively great width and diffuse character of the trace obtained on the plate .
In 'Electromagnetic Radiation , ' p. 300 , a method given which would appear to have some advantages , but it could only be performed on a scale beyond the resources of most laboratories and possibly only in institutions ssessing an equipment such as of the National Physical Laboratory .
JVotes a\amp ; le April 24 , 1918 .
( 1 ) On repeating Walker 's calculations for the transverse acceleration , I find that the sign of the discrepant tel.nl in the expressions for and on p. 451 of his paper should be positive .
In consequence , the factor in the expression for the transverse inertia on p. 452 must be replaced by My expression for the internal electromagnetic force on the electron is on three assumptions : ( a ) the retarded potentials of a point charge , 'Ann . .
Phys Folge 4 , Band 46 , S. 1914 ) .
VOL. XCIV.\mdash ; A. 2 % 432 Prof. G. A. Schott .
The Electrom ( xgnetic according to nard and Wiechert ; ( b ) the usual expression for the mechanical force on a moving electric charge , together with the usual rule of composition of forces ; and ( c ) the assumed convergence of my expansions for the potentials and electric , magnetic , and mechanical forces .
Few cavil at and ( b ) , but ( c ) has not been , and I doubt whether it ever will be , proved for the most general type of motion .
In certain cases the convergence of the series can be demonstrated , as I have proved elsewhere , for uniform longitudinal acceleration ; they converge almost certainly in all cases where the acceleration is not too great , and the speed of the electron not too close to that of light .
With this proviso , my expression for the electromagnetic momentum can be applied to any electron , whatever its constitution , form , state of strain or internal motion , and motion as a whole lna be , provided that the relative velocities of its parts are small enough .
( 3 ) I have now succeeded in tracing the causes of the discrepancy referred to in the text by applying Walker 's method , but on the basis of the principles used by Lorent and nlyself .
Consistently with his assumption of a perfectly conducting electron and consequent zero force inside , Walker calculates the total mechanical force on it by means of his expressions and in the two cases respectively .
Lorentz and myself , on the other hand , postulate the truth of the netic equations inside the charge as well as outside , and consequently admit the possibility of force inside the electron , so that on our assumptions the correct expressions for the total force on it are and respectively , where and denote the forces just inside .
For the longitudinal acceleration of Walker 's rigid electron vanishes , but for the transverse acceleration differs from zero .
In order to obtain a convenient formula for calculating the inside force we proceed as follows .
With the usual notation the electromagnetic equations written in vector form are curl Dh curl where denotes differentiation ving the motion of the element of charge , whose volume density is and velocity .
Apply these equations to infinitesimal element of the infinibely thin surface layer of surface density , which constitutes the moving electron .
Since the surface discontinuity travels with the element , the differential coefficients and * nn . .
Phys vol. 26 , p. 77 , S9 Inertia of the Lorentz Electron .
433 remain finite , whilst the others are generally infinite Integrating throughout the volume of the surface element , we obtain in the usual way where denotes a unit normal vector drawn from the inside to the outside of the surface , and brackets indicate that the excess of the value outside above that inside the surface is to be taken for the quantity enclosed in the brackets .
Solving these equations we find , ( 16 ) Hence we find for the nlechanical force on unit charge .
( 17 ) Knowing the surface density , the velocity , normal and the value of components , just outside the surface , we can use this formula to calculate the values of just inside .
We shall apply it to each of Walker 's cases in turn , squares of hroughoul .
( a ) Walker 's Case.\mdash ; Denoting the components of , the direction cosines of the outward nor1nal at by , we have , where , .
H Hence we find by means of ( 17 ) .
( 18 ) This is identical with the value of given by Walker on p. 450 , when his value of is inserted ; hence is zero , and Walker 's calculation of the force on the electron is correct .
It is easy to verify , by ( 16 ) , that vanishes at the surface , so that Walker 's is correct .
( b ) Walker 's Transverse Case.\mdash ; Here we have , using ( 17 ) , , , by inserting the value of given by Walker on p. 451 with the sign of the discrepant last term COl.rected .
Comparing with his value of we obtain Prof. G. A. Schott .
The gnetic Thus differs from zero inside the electron owing to the presence of the discrepant term , and hence we musC add to Walker 's value for , force on the electron a correction , which amounts to Adding this to the corrected value of Walker 's force on p. 452 , we obtain which is precisely the value obtained in the text , S7 , equation Hence the discrepancy is completely accounted for .
Here also it is easy to verify that vanishes at the surface on account of ( 16 ) , so that Walker 's is correct .
( 4 ) Longitudinal Accderation of the Lorentz Electron.\mdash ; I have now succeeded in verifying the supposition in the text for the longitudinal acceleration by adapting Walker 's solution to the case of the continually deformed electron , due account being taken both of the relative motion and of the internal force .
At time the eccentricity is , as in S6 .
Putting , we notice that is constant for the Lorentz electron , so that is a relative velocity to the first order .
By interaction with the external magnetic force at the surface this produces an additional external mechanical force .
To neutralise its tangential component we may add to Walker 's on p. 450 a term .
This rives rise to an additional surface density , given by Altogether we obtain an additional external normal mechanical force such that at the surface we have .
These quantities , , are to be added to , given by Walker on p. 450 , but in using the latter we must bear in mind that they refer to an electron moving with speed and of the shape appropriate to this speed ; hence , in the principal terms , the quantities A and must be taken for the eccentricity .
In other words , if A and are still to refer to eccentricity as before , we must , in the principal terms , replace them by and where in the small term .
Inertia of the Lorentz Electron .
With these changes in 's solution we obtain In order to find , we must use ( 16 ) with .
Thus , we may use ( 18 ) , provided that we by by and by the value belonging to eccentricity .
Hence we find Thus we obtain .
Hence the mechanical force just inside the electron differs from zero , and the total force on it is given by other terms being odd functions of and disappearing by symmetry .
This is precisely the expression of Lorentz .
As before , we must verify that the density is unaltered by the presence of internal force .
The same process gives for Hence we find .
Multiplying the components of by or to the first order by respectively and adding , we see that the normal component of the electric force vanishes just inside the surface , so that the surface density is given correctly by the expression for I think that the analysis given in Notes 3 and 4 proves definitely that the differences between the results obtained by Walker on the one hand , and by Lorentz and myself on the other , cannot be attributed to the use of the Mr. A. W. Conway .
-stationary assumption or of the energy method by Lorentz , neither of which is used by myself , but are due to the differences in the fundamental assumptions made by us , both as to the constitution of the electron and as to the character of its motion .
In view of these results , it seems to me that the two electron lodelS ought to be arded as essentially distinct , and that the relative merits of the two sets of mass formulae should be assessed in the light of their agreement with the results of experiment and of their adaptability to the purposes of theory .
On of the Point-Potential .
By THUB W. oNWAY , F.R.S. ( Received February 11 , 1918 .
) Introduction .
By point-potential in this ) aper is meant the potential scalar or vector of a point-charge which is moving in any manner without any restriction except that the speed is less than that of light .
Its general form is , where .
is the distance of the point-charge at a time from the field-point , the speed of light , and an arbitrary function of given by the equation .
The solution for uniform rectilinear motion of the point-charge was given by Sir J. J. Thomson*and Heaviside .
The solution for a eneral motion of the point-charge was given by and Wiechert .
S A method of deducing the result by complex integration was given by the writer and this meth is the basis of the present paper .
The subsequent little .ature is extensive and falls , for the most part , under two heads .
First , calculations of electromagnetic inertia include , for uniform motion , many papers by Heaviside , Searle , Morton , Abraham and others .
For variable motion typical paper is Sommerfeld .
A Lagrangian expansion appears to have been given first by Herglot Schott , and * Phil. Mag April l 'Phil .
Mag April , 1889 .
clairage Electrique , ' 1898 .
S 'Archives Neerlandaises , '1900 , p. 549 .
'Proc .
London Math. Soc Series 2 , ' Got .
Nach 1904 , pp. 107-110 .
' Got .
Nach 1903 , p. 356 .
'Ann . .
Physik , ' vol. 25 , p. 63 ( 1908 ) .

