On the Permeability of Transparent Screens of extreme Tenuity by radiant Heat .
By William Ritchie , A.M. Rector of Tain Academy .
Communicated by J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read March 8 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 139 .
] The author states in this paper , that invisible radiant heat , from sources at elevated temperatures , freely permeates thin transparent screens in the same manner as light ; but that as this doctine , established by Profesor Prevost and M. de la Roche has been controverted , he thinks it necessary to demonstrate it by fresh experiments : to this end he covered a small aperture with a film of glass almost iridescent , and keeping it constantly cold , by blowing on it , below the temperature of ambient air , he found that an air-thermometer on one side of it was not affected by a heated iron ball on the other , if the temperature of the ball was low ; but that as this temperature was raised , though not to the point of visible ignition , the effect on the thermometer became sensible and even considerable .
In another experiment , two air-thermometers , having their bulbs transparent , and as thin as possible , were placed equidistant from a heated ball just ceasing to be visible in the dark .
The one was clear , the other coated inside with a thin film of pounded charcoal .
The latter was most affected .
In a third experiment , a frame of glass threads , or fine wire , placed vertically , was coated with a film of diluted white of egg , applied with a broad hair brush , and kept constantly at the same temperature by applying it fresh and fresh .
Then , exposing a heated ball on one side , and an air-thermometer on the other , no effect was sensible on the latter , when the temperature of the ball was low , but when just invisible in the dark the effect was very sensible .
The author also finds that this effect is greater than in the case of glass , and that liquid screens are more permeable to heat than solid ones .
He also found that little difference of effect is observed whether the screens be near to or far from the heated ball , cceteris paribus ; and this he considers as demonstrating that the effect was not due to secondary radiation from the screen .

