On the Difference of Meridians of the Royal Observatories of Greenwich and Paris .
By Thomas Henderson , Esq. Communicated by J. F. W. Herschel , Esq. Sec. R.S. Read May 17 , 1827 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1827 , p. 286 .
] Mr. Henderson , in going over the calculations of the observations made by the Commissioners on the part of the British Board of Longitude and the French Ministry of War , for determining this element , in July 1825 , detected an error of one second in the reduction of the observations made at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich , from mean to sidereal time , and which was set down and calculated on by Mr. Herschel in the paper drawn up by him , containing an account of the operation and the results deduced , on the authority of official communication with the Astronomer Royal .
This error falls on the reduction of the single Greenwich observation of the 21st of July ; and though partly compensated by an opposite error of three tenths of a second committed by Mr. Herschel himself in the reduction of that day 's observations , is still sufficient to account for and correct the great and perplexing deviation of that day 's results from those of the other three days in which only the signals proved successful .
The effect of Mr. Henderson 's correction is , therefore , to redeem the result of the observations of the 21st of July from the suspicion which attached to them ; to produce a change of one tenth of a second in the final result of the whole operation , giving 91n 21s"5 for the most probable difference of longitude between the two observatories ; and , as Mr. Henderson observes , triples the value of the result obtained , by narrowing the extreme range of the experiments from OS-65 to 0S 21 .
After a minute re-calculation of the whole work , and the revision especially of the rates of the chronoineters , ( by which that used at Fairlight appears to have kept a better rate than was at first supposed , ) Mr. Henderson concludes his paper with the application of the doctrine of probabilities , to determine the weights of the several observations , and the probable error of the final result , which comes out 08s07 , though the actual uncertainty , he thinks , may amount to Os-2 .

