An Extract Of a Letter , written by Mr. Richard Towneley to Dr. Croon , touching the Invention of Dividing a Foot into many thousand parts , for Mathematical purposes .
FInding in one * of the last Philosophical Transactions , how much M. Auzout esteems his Invention of dividing a Foot into near 30000 parts , and taking thereby Angles to a very great exactness ; I am told , I shall be look't upon as a great Wronger of our Nation , should I not let the World know , that I have , out of some scattered Papers and Letters , that formerly came to my hands of a Gentleman of these Parts , one Mr. Gascoigne , found out , That before our late Civil Wars , he had not only devised an Instrument of as great a power , as M. Auzout 's , but had also for some Years made use of it , not only for taking the Diameters of the Planets , and Distances upon Land ; but had farther endeavoured , out of its preciseness , to gather many Certainties in the Heavens ; amongst which , I shall only mention one , viz. The finding the Moons Distance , from two Observations , of her Horizontal and Meridional Diameters : Which I the rather mention , because the French Astronomer esteems himself the first that took any such Notice , as thereby to settle the Moons Parallax .
For , our Countrey-man fully considered it before , and imparted it to an Acquaintance of his , who thereupon proposed to him the Difficulties that would arise in the Calculation ; with considerations upon the strange Niceties , necessary to give him a certainty of what he desired .
The very Instrument he first made I have now by me , and two others more perfected by him ; which doubtless he would have infinitely mended , had he not been slain unfortunately in His late Majesties Service .
He had a TreaO oo tise * Vid. Numb. tise of Opticks ready for the Press ; but though I have used my utmost endeavour to retrieve it , yet I have in that point been totally unsuccessful : But some loose Papers and Letters I have , particularly about this Instrument for taking of Angles , which was far from perfect .
Nevertheless , I find it so much to exceed all others , that I have used my Endeavours to make it exact , and easily tractable ; which above a Year since I effected to my own desire , by the help of an Ingenious and Exact Watchmaker in these Parts : Since which time , I have not altogether neglected it , but employed it particularly in taking the Distances ( as occasion served ) of the Circum-joviatists , towards a perfect settling their Motion .
I shall only say of it , That it is small , not exceeding in weight , nor much in bigness , an ordinary Pocket-Watch , exactly marking above 40000 Divisions in a Foot , by the help of two Indexes ; the one showing hundreds of Divisions , the other , Divisions of the hundred , every last Division , in my small one , containing 1/ 10 of an Inch ; and that so precisely , that , as I use it , there goes above 2 1/ 2 Divisions to a Second .
Yet I have taken Land-Angles several times to one Division , though ( for the Reason mentioned by M. Auzout ) it be very hard to come to that Exactness in the Heavens , Viz .
The swift motion of the Planets .
Yet , to remedy that Fault , I have devised a Rest , in which I find no small advantage , and not a little pleasing those persons who have seen it , being so easy to be made , and by the Observer managed without the help of another : Which second Convene ence , my yet nameless Instrument hath in great perfection , and is , by reason of its smallness and shape , easily appliable to any Telescope .
Sir , If you think this Invention , thus imp ov 'd , worthy to be taken notice of by the Curious , you may command a more perfect Description of it , or any of the Observations , either M. Gascoigne , or my self have made with it .
* Care is taken , to get both this Description , and the Observations ,

