XXVIII .
" On the Fructification of certain Spheriaceous Fungi .
" By FREDERICK CURREY , Esq. Communicated by Dr. HOOKER , F.R.S. Received May 14 , 1857 .
( Abstract .
) The author refers to the recent inquiries into the diversities of form existing in the reproductive organs of Fungi , and notices the physiological importance of the results , and the probable future effect upon systematic arrangement .
Two different classes of Spheeriaceous Fungi are then noticed in detail , in the former of which the different forms of fruit produced are essentially distinct , whilst in the latter the fruit is modified so as to assume a form materially different from the normal form .
The following are the plants included in the former of these classes , with the principal points noticed in each .
i. Spheeria verrucceformis , Ehr .
The occurrence of an ascigerous and cytisporous state of fructification within the same circumscribing line , and the nature of the cells constituting that line .
2 .
Sphceria favacea , Fr. Points of distinction between it and S. verrueceformis .
Curious modifications in the shape of the asci .
3 .
Sphceria olivacea , n. s. Aberrant forms of asci , and description of the sporidia .
4 .
Sphceria tiliaginea , n. s. The existence of spermatia and stylospores , and description of the form and modes of growth of those organs .
5 .
Spheria vestita , Fr. The existence of perithecia and naked spores within a conceptacle common to both , and having a common orifice .
6 .
Sphceriafragiformis , Pers .
Description of a secondary form of fruit belonging to the Sphceria , hitherto considered to have been a growth parasitical upon it .
7 .
Sphweria salicina , Pers .
, and Coniothecium Amentacearum , Corda .
The production of these Fungi ( hitherto supposed to be distinct plants ) from the same mycelium , and the probability of a similar relation between Sphieria lanciformis , Fr. , and Coniothecium betzulinum , Corda .
The following are the plants included in the latter of the two classes , and the principal points noticed with regard to them .
1 .
Spheria angulata , Fr. The occurrence of a state of fructification similar to that in the genus Cryptosporium ; the varieties of structure in the normal sporidia , and the probable origin and nature of the abnormal fruit .
2 .
Spheria lanciformis , Fr. , and Ilendersonia polycystis , B. &amp; Br .
Irregularity of form in the sporidia of Sphacria lanciformis .
The growth of perithecia in the same stroma , some producing the fruit of Spheria lanciformis , others that of Hendersoniapolycystis .
Notice of the probable existence of a third form of fruit of Spheria lanciformis .
3 .
Spheria siparia , B. &amp; Br .
, and Prosthemiu9m betulinum , Kunze .
Constant association of the two forms ; their external resemblance ; nature of the fruit and other circumstances leadingr to the conclusion of the identity of the two plants .

