1884 .
] Reflex Excitation of the Cardiac Nerves .
31 Til .
" On Reflex Excitation of the Cardiac Nerves in Fishes .
" By J. A. Mo William , M.D. , Demonstrator of Physiology , University College , London .
From the Physiological Laboratory , University College .
Communicated by E. A. Schafer , F.R.S. Received December 4 , 1884 .
Cardiac inhibition of a very profound character can be reflexly induced in the eel with a facility that is quite astounding .
Slight stimulation of either gill brings about an immediate arrest of the heart 's action , an arrest that may last for several minutes provided the stimulation be continued .
Gentle friction or pressure very readily leads to the same result ; indeed , a mere touch is sometimes sufficient .
A weak interrupted current is likewise effective ; also a thermal or chemical stimulus .
If water be injected through the gill apertures at considerable pressure so as to distend the branchial chamber , inhibition of the heart 's action is similarly induced .
Stimulation of the fifth branchial arch ( which carries teeth but no gill ) has the same effect .
The branchial nerves are the paths that conduct the afferent impulse to the medulla , whence it passes as an inhibitory impulse down the vagus nerve and along the cardiac branch to the heart .
Stimulation of the central end of a cut branchial nerve leads to the same result as stimulation of the gill , and if one vagus nerve be cut , stimulation of a branchial nerve on the same side can still arrest the heart , provided the vagus nerve on the other side be intact .
Section of all the branchial nerves obviates the occurrence of cardiac standstill as a result of gill stimulation , and , of course , destruction of the medulla or section of both vagi has a similar effect .
The administration of ether or chloroform does not suspend the operation of this mode of reflex inhibition , provided the amount of the anaesthetic be not so great as to arrest all manifestations of activity in the medulla , e.g. , the respiratory acts .
Neither removal of the various parts of the brain above the medulla , nor section of the spinal cord immediately below the medulla , prevents the occurrence of cardiac arrest .
This phenomenon of reflex cardiac inhibition as a result of gill stimulation is one that occurs with almost perfect constancy , and usually with a readiness and profoundness that are very striking .
It occurs in the uninjured animal , as may be seen by watching the area of cardiac pulsation on the ventral aspect of the body , while the gill is stimulated by pressure or in any other way .
The recommencement of the heart 's action is often delayed for a considerable time ( half a -minute or longer ) after strong stimulation of the gill has been disDr .
J. A. McWilliam .
On [ Dec. 18 , continued .
One or more respiratory movements are often excited at the same time that cardiac arrest is brought about .
Stimulation of the gill apertures and of the internal surface of the branchial chamber also gives rise to cardiac inhibition , though in a much less marked degree than does stimulation of the gills .
The phenomenon of cardiac inhibition as a result of gill stimulation is not confined to the eel .
I have found it to be well marked in various other fishes\#151 ; carp , perch , rudd , and others .
Stimulation of the skin of the head is also effective in bringing about an arrest of the heart 's action .
The application of pressure or slight friction , or a weak interrupted current , or a thermal stimulus , leads readily to this result .
If the skin be removed , slight stimulation ceases to have any effect unless pressure be applied over the branchial chamber\#151 ; an inhibitory effect is then obtained by the gills being affected .
Severe injury of any part of the head after removal of the skin may still ( apart from any influence upon the gills ) bring about cardiac inhibition .
Stimulation of the fifth nerve is followed by a similar result .
The administration of ether or chloroform seems as a rule to prevent the occurrence of cardiac arrest as a result of slight stimulation of the skin of the head ; this occurs when the quantity of ether that has been used is quite insufficient to suspend the activity of the medulla , or to prevent the arrest of the heart which follows gill stimulation .
Gentle compression of the animal 's tail between the fingers is generally followed by standstill of the heart .
So also is the application of electrical or chemical stimulation to the same part .
The inhibitory result is obtained by irritation of the integument covering the caudal fin as well as of that covering the muscular part of the tail .
If the skin be removed gentle mechanical stimulation ceases to have any effect ; electrical stimulation is apt to spread to the spinal cord .
The area of skin over which stimulation is effective generally extends from the tip of the tail forwards about one-eighth of the distance to the vent .
Muscular movements along the animal 's body are induced at the same time as the cardiac standstill .
The path along which the afferent impulses pass to the medulla is the spinal cord .
Section of the cord above the point of stimulation prevents the occurrence of a cardiac inhibitory result .
Direct stimulation of the spinal cord is a very powerful means of arresting the heart 's action , and the same result occurs at whatever part the cord is stimulated .
The cardiac effect is accompanied by vigorous contraction of the muscles generally , including those of the pectoral fins .
But when an interrupted current is employed to stimulate the cord , the question may be raised whether some escape of the current to the neighbouring structures may not occur , e.g. , 1884 .
] Reflex Action of the Cardiac Nerves in Fishes .
whether the current may not ( if a strong current he used ) spread to the sympathetic nerves lying along the aorta on the ventral aspect of the vertebral column .
Any such source of error can be avoided by employing mechanical stimulation of the cord by means of a wire passed some distance up the spinal canal , so as to destroy the cord at that part .
Moreover , if an interrupted current of the same strength as before be applied to the empty spinal canal at the point where the cord was formerly stimulated , it is found to cause no inhibition at all , though it is quite as free as before to pass into the sympathetic nerves and other neighbouring structures .
It is clear then that the interrupted current which caused inhibition when applied to the cut end of the spinal cord caused inhibition by stimulating the cord itself , and not by its effect upon any neighbouring structures into which it might have spread .
When direct stimulation of the cord is employed as a means of inducing reflex cardiac inhibition , the accompanying movements of the skeletal muscles occur so spasmodically that it is impossible to observe any order of succession in their generation .
But when the animal appears to be in a sluggish and depressed condition , stimulation of the tail is often followed by a struggling movement which begins in the region of the stimulated point , and slowly passes along the body towards the head .
When this wave of movement passing along from the tail reaches no further than the middle of the animal 's length , no cardiac inhibition occurs , but when it traverses the whole length of the body , along to the head , cardiac inhibition occurs , and removal of the brain above the medulla does not obviate this result .
The wave of muscular movement passing along the body from tail to head ( as a result of stimulation of the tail ) is not simply a contraction wave propagated by the muscular tissues ; it indicates a wave of activity passing over the motor cells of the spinal cord .
Section of the spinal cord at once arrests the transmission of the movement in question .
It would seem that when this phase of activity passing along the cord reaches the medulla , the vagus centre is thrown into action together with the neighbouring motor centres , e.g. , the respiratory centre , the centre for movement of the pectoral fins , \amp ; c. It must be remembered that in these experiments the animal is made fast on a board .
In such circumstances , the struggling movements possibly attain an intensity much greater than is commonly the case in the normal condition of the animal .
When the wave of action passing along the spinal cord fails to reach the medulla , the vagus centre would seem to be unaffected , since no change in the heart 's action is discernible .
And when irritation of the tail fails to produce any reflex movements , it also fails to bring about cardiac arrest .
The result of the application of a stimulus VOL. XXXVIII .
d Dr. J. A. Me William .
On [ Dec. 18 , to the tail is not always the same .
After the tail has been repeatedly stimulated , with the effect of causing reflex muscular contraction and cardiac inhibition , a phase ( of exhaustion ) often occurs , during which stimulation fails to bring about either reflex movements or cardiac arrest .
The effects of the administration of strychnine ( by hypodermic injection ) are in accordance with the phenomena already described .
After strychnine poisoning convulsive movements occur , as in the frog , in response to stimuli of a very trivial character .
But in the eel , the advent of each convulsive attack is accompanied by a temporary arrest of the heart 's action .
The vagus centre seems in this instance also to be thrown into action in company with the ordinary motor centres .
Again , when experimenting with an eel , struggling movements of the animal occasionally occur without any apparent cause .
These movements , if confined to the tail part , are accompanied by no perceptible change in the heart 's action , but when they involve the whole length of the animal or the part next the head , cardiac arrest occurs at the same time\#151 ; just as cardiac arrest accompanies the struggling movements resulting from stimulation of the skin of the head or tail .
When the motor centres of the cord and medulla ( including the respiratory centre ) are paralysed in consequence of a prolonged administration of ether or chloroform , the vagus centre also seems to be hors de combat .
Reflex inhibition of the heart does not then occur as a result of the stimulation of any part , though direct stimulation of the vagus nerve readily leads to prolonged inhibition .
It will thus be seen that stimulation of the skin of the head and of the tail of the eel is peculiarly effective in causing reflex inhibition of the heart 's action .
The skin of the head and tail are shown to be possessed of a specially high sensibility by results other than cardiac arrest .
For if a vigorous uninjured eel when lying quiescent on a board be lightly touched on the head with the finger , reflex movements of a more or less extensive and complex character are immediately manifested .
Similar results are obtained by holding between the fingers or very gently compressing the tail ; the resulting movements are sometimes confined to the caudal region , while they at other times affect the whole length of the animal .
But when the intermediate tract of the eel 's body is tested in the same way , it is found that no visible effects of any kind follow the application of gentle pressure to the skin .
The skin of the animal 's body seems to be quite irresponsive to stimuli which produce striking effects when applied to the head or tail .
It would seem then that cardiac arrest is most readily excited by stimulation of those cutaneous surfaces which are prone to yield reflex movements as a result of similar stimulation .
In other words , stimu1884 .
] Reflex Action of the Cardiac Nerves in Fishes .
lation of those regions of the skin which most readily lead to reflex excitement of the spinal and medullary motor centres also leads most readily to excitement of the vagus centre .
Stimulation of the parietal peritoneum very readily gives rise to reflex cardiac arrest .
Tapping the ventral aspect of the abdomen of an intact eel is commonly followed by more or less marked slowing of the heart 's action .
And when the abdominal cavity is being laid open , the heart generally stands still for a considerable length of time .
When this standstill has passed away , the introduction of a finger-tip into the abdominal cavity so as to come into contact with the parietal peritoneum is frequently followed by a temporary cardiac inhibition .
If the abdominal parietes be now fixed apart so as to expose the cavity fully , it can be readily observed that stimulation of the parietal portion of the peritoneum is a very effective cause of reflex cardiac arrest .
Application of slight friction , a weak interrupted current , or a hot wire to the internal surface of the abdominal parietes , almost invariably brings about cardiac inhibition in a very marked degree .
Contraction of the neighbouring trunk muscles commonly occurs at the same time ; such contraction at times involves the muscles along the whole length of the body .
These muscular contractions ( accompanying the reflex cardiac arrest ) occur on both sides of the body , and are evidently a reflex effect of the peritoneal stimulation .
A very weak interrupted current is sufficient to bring about the results mentioned : such a current as is obtained from the secondary coil ( of a du Bois-Reymond 's induction machine , with the Helmholtz modification ) at a distance of 11 cm .
from the position where it covers the primary coil completely , whilst the battery used is a single Daniell 's element .
The effect on the heart 's action caused by stimulation of the parietal peritoneum seems to occur more readily in response to a weak interrupted current than to slight mechanical stimulation .
If the parietal peritoneum be stripped off from the subjacent tissues at any part where reflex inhibition is found to be readily excited , the application of the electric current to the same spot\#151 ; now denuded of its peritoneal covering\#151 ; fails to exert any influence on the heart 's action , unless the current spread to one of the spinal nerves .
But if the electrodes be moved to another part of the abdominal parietes\#151 ; to a part where the peritoneal layer is still intact\#151 ; the same cardio-inhibitory phenomena as before can be readily observed .
Mechanical and thermal stimulation give similar results .
The afferent impulses generated by stimulation of the parietal peritoneum seem to pass to the medullary vagus centre chiefly through the spinal cord .
Section of the upper part of the cord obviates the cardio-inhibitory effect of peritoneal stimulation .
Section of the vagus nerves below the origin of the cardiac branches does not d 2 Dr. J. A. Me William .
On [ Dec. 18 , prevent the inhibitory result .
Curiously enough , stimulation of the visceral peritoneum has an entirely different and indeed an entirely negative result ; it is followed by no perceptible change in the heart 's action .
Even strong interrupted currents , and strong mechanical , chemical , and thermal stimuli applied to the visceral peritoneum , seem to be quite without effect on the cardiac beat .
Powerful electrical stimulation of the whole thickness of the walls of the stomach and intestine has no perceptible effect on the heart .
Pinching , crushing , and tearing of these parts are equally ineffective ; and so are chemical and thermal irritants .
Here I must advert to an experiment described by Marshall Hall in " Todd 's Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology " ( article Heart ) .
He states that when the stomach of an eel was crushed by a violent blow with a hammer , the heart stood still for a considerable length of time , and this even though the animal 's brain and spinal cord had been previously destroyed .
From this he argues that the cardiac action can be inhibited by impulses originating in the stomach , and acting upon the heart without the mediation of the cerebro-spinal system at all .
Now I have many times violently crushed the stomach of an eel by means of large and strong pliers , and I have never observed any cardiac arrest resulting therefrom .
This statement holds both in the case of eels that have had their brain and spinal cord intact , and in eels that have had these organs destroyed .
It would seem therefore that the cardiac inhibition observed by Marshall Hall was in all probability not simply due to the crushing of the stomach\#151 ; to which he ascribes it .
It must have occurred as a consequence of some effect of the blow other than the crushing of the stomach .
Indeed , his method of experiment was such as to render possible the agency of many causes other than those strictly dependent on the injury of the stomach ; his method rendered possible the excitation of many nerve impulses besides those generated by the stomach injury .
For a severe blow delivered with a hammer upon the intact stomach of an eel would necessarily injure various other structures , and would at the same time give rise to a considerable amount of jar .
Injury of such structures adjacent to the stomach as might be effected by a hammer blow , cannot be put down as the efficient cause of the reflex cardiac arrest , since powerful stimulation of these parts ( applied so as to obviate the accompaniment of jar ) gives rise to no effect at all on the heart 's action , provided the brain and spinal cord have been previously destroyed .
After destruction of these organs I have , however , in several instances observed a well-marked inhibition of the heart 's action as a result of sudden jarring of the animal generally\#151 ; such jarring as may be caused by forcibly striking the board on which the eel rests .
This result does not occur in all cases , but in some instances I have seen it in unmistakable form .
Such a jarring was 1884.1 Reflex Action of the Cardiac Nerves Fishes .
probably caused by Marshall Hall 's blow upon the stomach , and to such jarring may , it seems to me , with most probability , be attributed the cardio-inhibitory phenomenon which he describes .
Stimulation of the air-bladder and the other abdominal organs appears to be without effect on the heart 's action .
The abdominal organs seem , in fact , to be the only parts of the animal from which cardiac inhibition cannot by powerful stimulation be excited .
And similarly with regard to reflex movements , little or no effect is manifested in response to the most powerful stimulation of the abdominal organs .
Stimulation of the abdominal sympathetic nerves seems to have no influence on the cardiac action .
Stimulation of the central end of the right or left vagus nerve below the origin of the cardiac branch causes well-marked reflex inhibition , provided the nerve be stimulated in that part of its course where it lies along the gullet .
Stimulation of either vagus nerve below the gullet , i.e. , after the nerve has passed from the gullet on to the stomach , seems to have no cardio-inhibitory effect .
Stimulation of the inner and outer surfaces of the gullet itself appears to be without effect on the heart ; whilst the application of a very weak current to the vagus nerve lying along its outer surface , most readily brings about a prolonged arrest of the cardiac action .
Stimulation of the first spinal nerve , or any of its branches , gives rise to marked inhibition of the heart .
Many of the branches of this nerve can be very easily isolated , as they pass to the muscles on the ventral aspect of the body anterior to the pectoral fins .
Stimulation of the central end of any of the spinal nerves is often followed by cardiac arrest .
Irritation of the mucous membrane of the mouth seems in most instances to lead to cardiac arrest .
This can easily be shown by introducing any pointed instrument into the mouth and scratching the mucous membrane .
General muscular movements are usually induced at the same time as the cardiac inhibition .
Irritation of the pharynx seems to be still more effective as regards its influence in suspending the cardiac action .
Severe injury of almost any part of the animal\#151 ; with the exception of the abdominal organs\#151 ; is usually followed by a more or less prolonged standstill of the heart .
This result is generally accompanied by more or less extensive and continued movements of the skeletal muscles .
Injury of the pectoral fins seems in many instances to be more effective in causing reflex inhibition than does injury of the body generally , excepting of course the specially effective parts ( i.e. , head , tail , parietal peritoneum , and gills ) already mentioned .
I have on many occasions investigated the effect of stimulation of the great lateral nerve upon the cardiac movements .
This nerve Dr. J. A. McWilliam .
On [ Dec. 18 , originates from the bunch of nerves which make up the vagus .
It separates from the other portions of the vagus near the skull ; it then passes along the lateral surface of the animal , pursuing the same general course as the lateral line , though for the greater part of its course at a considerable depth from the surface , embedded among the muscles .
In the eel it does not extend to the tail , as it does in some fishes ( e.g. , carp ) ; it terminates at a variable point , sometimes about the junction of the caudal third with the rest of the body , sometimes in the middle third of the animal 's length .
Section of this nerve is followed by no visible effect .
And stimulation of its central end seems to exert no marked influence on the cardiac action .
The sudden placing of an eel in the vertical position with the head downwards , sometimes leads to a temporary cardiac arrest , provided the circulation be intact .
Movements of the animal occur at the same time as the inhibition of the heart , and when no such movements result from the placing of the animal in the position referred to , the cardiac inhibition also fails to occur .
And even in the cases where cardiac inhibition ( accompanied by movements of the animal ) does occur , the inhibition is usually a very temporary one .
The heart is not kept at a slow rate during the whole time that the vertical position is maintained ; in fact , there is generally , after a little time , a slight acceleration of the heart 's rhythm beyond what was seen when the animal was in the horizontal position .
In the vertical position ( with the head downwards ) the heart is much distended with blood , and fails to empty itself at each beat .
And section of both vagi does not seem to have any effect upon the gorged condition or slightly accelerated rate which the heart exhibits while the above-mentioned position of the animal is maintained .
When the eel is held in a vertical position with the head upwards , the heart becomes small , pale , and empty , or almost empty .
Its rate of action remains unchanged , or after a little time becomes somewhat slower than in the horizontal position ; the latter result ( a somewhat slowed rate ) seems to be the one that more commonly occurs .
Reflex arrest of the heart\#151 ; brought about in any of the ways mentioned\#151 ; does not depend upon alterations in blood-pressure .
It occurs after section of all the large blood-vessels .
The eel 's brain can be readily exposed by removing the cranial roof by means of a pair of strong scissors or a bone forceps .
The effects of stimulation and removal of the various parts can then be tested .
Stimulation of the cerebral hemispheres has no apparent effect either with regard to the condition of the heart or of the skeletal muscles .
And removal of these parts seems to have no marked effect .
Stimulation of the optic lobes leads to very striking results ; the 1884 .
] Reflex Action of the Cardiac Nerves Fishes .
heart stands still , while strong contraction of the skeletal muscles occurs .
These results are got by the application of very weak interrupted currents ; and also by mechanical stimulation .
The effects produced do not seem to be due to a spreading of the stimulating current to the medulla ; the currents used are extremely weak , and , moreover , stimulation of the cerebellum ( which lies much nearer the medulla than do the optic lobes ) gives no effect at all or only a very trivial effect compared to that obtained from the optic lobes .
If the interrupted current applied to the optic lobes spread to the medulla , it ought surely to spread as readily or indeed much more readily to the medulla when applied to the cerebellum .
Removal of the optic lobes seems to lead to a change in the readiness with which stimulation of certain parts leads to reflex cardiac inhibition .
The application of slight friction or weak electrical currents to the skin of the head seems ( after removal of the optic lobes ) to have no effect on the heart 's action ; neither does slight irritation of the mucous membrane of the mouth , nor irritation of the gill apertures .
Very severe injury of any of these parts may still , however , lead to cardiac inhibition .
Removal of the optic lobes also seems in many instances to lead to an acceleration of the rate of the heart 's action .
Stimulation of the medulla is highly effective in causing prolonged suspension of the cardiac action .
A rapidly interrupted current is not essential ; a current with interruptions at the rate of two or three per second is effective .
Removal of the medulla abolishes all the phenomena of reflex cardiac inhibition .
After removal or destruction of the medulla , the heart rhythm is generally accelerated to a considerable extent .
A similar change in the rate of cardiac action can usually be observed as a consequence of section of the vagi .
It would seem then that during the time the animal is experimented on with intact medulla and vagi , the heart 's action is under a continued controlling influence which renders its rhythm slower than it would be were it not for this controlling influence exerted by the medulla upon the heart through the medium of the vagi nerves .
And this controlling influence is manifested when the eel is left uninterfered with for a considerable time , and when the animal appears to be in a perfectly quiescent state .
However , the means which are employed to fix the animal , and the incisions which have been made to expose the heart and brain , may be sources of irritation which by sending afferent impulses to the medulla , keep the vagus centre in a state of slight but continued activity .
And if extensive injuries have been inflicted , e.g. , if the animal is cut across at the middle of its length , the continued controlling influence exerted by the central nervous organs on the heart is , as a rule , decidedly more marked .
This controlling influence is much more Dr. J. A. Me William .
On [ Dec. 18 , strongly evidenced when the optic lobes and medulla are both intact than when the former parts ( the optic lobes ) have been removed .
That such a controlling influence is at times present in a very marked degree , is evidenced by the fact that section of the vagi sometimes leads to a very great change in the rapidity of the heart 's action .
The number of beats occasionally increases from a rate of 15 per minute before section of the vagi , to a rate of 40 per minute after section of the vagi .
Changes in the degree of continued controlling influence exerted by the central nervous system upon the heart seem to play a very important part with regard to the after effects which are manifested as consequences of reflex arrest of the heart .
When the cardiac action recommences after reflex inhibition the beats are at first slow , but soon increase in rate and frequently attain for a time a much greater rapidity of rhythm than was manifested before the reflex inhibition occurred .
At the same time a slight increase of the force of the auricular beats may occur .
These changes in rate and force seem to be in very many cases due for the most part to a diminution of the constant controlling influence which acted upon the heart before the inhibition was caused ; It would seem that strong action of the medullary inhibitory centre ( exerted by afferent impulses ) and leading to cardiac standstill , is followed by a phase of markedly diminished activity of that centre\#151 ; a diminution which involves a relaxing of the control exerted upon the heart , and a consequent increase in the rate of the heart 's beat and occasionally also of the auricular force of contraction .
That such a diminution of the medullary controlling influence is frequently the main cause of the after-acceleration following reflex inhibition , is suppoi'ted by a number of considerations ; among others , by the fact that in many instances where such after-acceleration is well marked as a result of reflex inhibition , no after-acceleration at all occurs after inhibition from direct stimulation of the vagi or of the sinus .
The state of excitement into which the medullary vagus centre is thrown by strong afferent impulses ( from the gills and other parts ) seems to persist for a considerable time after the stimulation ( of the gills , \amp ; c. ) is discontinued .
For the heart frequently remains quiescent for half a minute or more after gill stimulation is discontinued ; whereas after direct stimulation of the vagus nerve the heart recommences very shortly after the stimulation is- discontinued .
Free administration of ether or chloroform leads to complete loss of reflex inhibition as well as of reflex action generally .
Cardiac arrest can still be readily observed as a result of direct stimulation of the vagus nerve .
A smaller amount of these anaesthetics induces a condition much resembling that seen after removal of the optic lobes .
There are no voluntary movements .
Reflex action upon the qeart or skeletal muscles cannot be excited by very slight 1884 .
] Reflex Action of the Cardiac Nerves in Fishes .
mechanical or electrical stimulation of the skin of the head , or by very slight stimulation of the gill apertures or of the mucous membrane of the mouth .
Weak irritation , which formerly produced striking results , now seems to have no effect on these parts .
Cardiac inhibition and reflex contractions of the skeletal muscles may still be excited by severe injury of the parts mentioned , or by ordinary stimulation of the gills , tail , parietal peritoneum , first spinal nerve , or trunk of the vagus nerve where it lies on the gullet .
When the heart has been acting very slowly ( in consequence of the controlling influence of the central nervous system ) prior to the administration of ether , the rate of action usually increases to a very marked extent even when the amount of ether used has not yet been enough to paralyse the reflex activity of the medulla , but when it has induced a condition similar to that seen on removal of the optic lobes .
It will be seen from the experiments described , that reflex inhibition of the eel 's heart is often excited by peripheral stimulation which leads at the same time to reflex action of the skeletal muscles .
The vagus medullary centre is often thrown into a state of activity by impulses which at the same time set into activity the motor centres of the medulla and cord generally .
Such results may be brought about by stimulation of the skin of the head or tail , by stimulation of the gill apertures , or of the mucous membrane of the mouth , and by severe injury of any part of the body excepting the abdominal organs .
On the other hand , stimulation of certain parts can lead to cardiac inhibition without any other indications of reflex action .
The medullary vagus centre may as a result of peripheral stimulation be thrown into a state of excitement without the participation of any of the motor centres of the medulla or cord ; sometimes with the participation of one or more of the neighbouring medullary centres ( e.gr .
, the respiratory ) .
Such results are commonly obtained by stimulation of the gills , of the fifth bronchial arch , of the first spinal nerve , or of the vagus nerve as it passes along the oesophagus below the heart .
Stimulation of these parts frequently leads to prolonged inhibition of the heart without the occurrence of any other indication of reflex action .
( In the case of all the animals experimented on , the brain was destroyed or anaesthetics were administered before any operative proceedings were resorted to .
)

