Remarks on several Icebergs which have been met with in unusually low Latitudes in the Southern Hemisphere .
By Captain James Horsburgh , Hydrographer to the East India Company , F.R.S. Read February 4 , 1830 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1830 , p. 117 .
] The journals of the ships belonging to the East India Company , the author observes , during the whole of the last century , contain no accounts of icebergs having been seen in the course of their navigation in the southern hemisphere , although several of these ships proceeded into the parallels of latitude 40 ?
, 410 , and 42 ?
south ; but during the last two years , it appears that icebergs have occasionally been met with by several ships in their passage , very near the Cape of Good Hope , between the latitudes of 36 ?
and 390 .
The particulars relating to these observations are detailed in the paper .
The most remarkable occurred in the voyage of the brig Eliza , from Antwerp , bound to Batavia , which on the 28th of April , 1828 , fell in with five icebergs in latitude 37ยง 31 ' south , longitude 180 17 ' east of Greenwich .
They had the appearance of church steeples , of a height from 250 to 300 feet ; and the sea broke so violently against these enormous masses , that it was at first suspected they might be fixed upon some unknown shoal , until , on sounding , no bottom could be discovered .
It is remarkable that in general , icebergs appear to be met with in low latitudes , nearly at the same period of the year , namely , in April or May , in both the northern and southern hemispheres , although the seasons are reversed in these two divisions of the globe .
In order to account for the origin and accretion of the southern icebergs , the author thinks it probable that there exists a large tract of land near the antarctic circle , somewhere between the meridian of London and the twentieth degree of east longitude ; whence these icebergs have been carried in a north and north-north-easterly direction , by the united forces of current , winds , and waves , prevailing from southsouth-west and south-west .
Bouvet 's and Thompson 's Islands are not of sufficient magnitude , and Sandwich Land and Kerguelen 's Island are too remote to be the source of the icebergs lately observed in the icinity of the Cape .
From their unprecedented descent during the last two years , it is most probable that the disruption of these masses of ice from the place of their formation was the effect of some powerful cause of rare occurrence , such as an earthquake or volcano , which has burst forth and convulsed the inaccessible regions of the south ; leaving no other testimonials of the event , than some.few fragments of ice , scattered at a distance in the Indian Ocean .

