" On the Chemical Nature of Wax."-Part III .
" On Myricine .
" By B. C. Brodie , Esq. Communicated by Sir B. C. Brodie , Bart. , F.R.S. This paper is the last of three papers on the chemical nature of wax , and contains the investigation of that portion of bees-wax which is soluble only with difficulty in boiling alcohol .
This body could never be rightly investigated before the discovery of the true nature of the other constituent of the wax , namely , the cerotie acid , for the absence of which no test was known , and the products of the decomposition of which would materially interfere with any experiments on the nature of the myricine .
When the cerotic acid has been absolutely removed by repeated boiling of the wax with alcohol , a substance remains , which is saponifiable , but with difficulty .
From the products of saponification the author isolated palmitic acid , C32 H32 04 , and a new wax-alcohol , analogous to , but yet different from cerotine , described in a former paper .
This alcohol , melissine , has the formula C , o H62 04 .
By oxidation of this substance by means of lile and potash , the acid CG6 H60 0 , melissic acid , was obtained ; and by the action of chlorine , a body analogous to chloral , a substance , that is , of the aldehyde series , but with a substitution of between fourteen and fifteen equivalents of chlorine for hydrogen .
In its conversion into this substance the alcohol loses two equivalents of hydrogen , without substitution .
The author also investigated the products of the distillation of myricine .
From these he procured likewise palmitic acid and a solid hydrocarbon , which , rectified over potassium , had a melting-point of 62 ?
, and contained , as shown by analysis , carbon and hydrogen in equal equivalents .
The analogy of the mode of formation of this substance to cerotine from Chinese wax shows that it is the hydrocarbon , melene , C60 H0 .
By repeated crystallization from ether a substance was obtained from the impure myricine , of a crystalline character , melting at 72 ?
; the analysis of which agrees with the formula C92 H2 04 , which explains the reactions of the substance .
The general conclusion from this investigation is , that waxes are a class of bodies which , chemically speaking , stand in the same relation to fat as fatty bodies do to the alcohol and acetic acid of vinous fermentation ; all which bodies are members of one chemical series , possess an analogous chemical character , and are susceptible of analogous transformations .

