III .
" Description of an Improved Mercurial Barometer .
" By JAMES HICKS , Esq. Communicated by J. P. GASsIOT , F.R.S. Received March 16 , 1864 .
Having shown this instrument to Mr. Gassiot , he wished me to write a short description of it , which he thought would be of interest to the Royal Society .
Some time since I constructed an open-scale barometer , with a column of mercury placed in a glass tube hermetically sealed at the top , and perfectly open at the bottom .
The lower half of the tube is of larger bore than that of the upper .
If a column of mercury , of exactly the length which the atmosphere is able at the time to support , were placed in a tube of glass hermetically sealed at the top , of equal bore from end to end , the mercury would be held in suspension ; but immediately the pressure of the atmosphere increased , the mercury would rise towards the top of the tube , and remaini there till , on the pressure decreasing , it would fall towards the bottom , and that portion which the atmosphere was unable to support would drop out .
But if the lower half of the tube be made a little larger in the bore than the upper , when the column falls , the upper portion passes out of the smaller part of the tube into the larger , and owing to the greater capacity of the latter , the lower end of the column of mercury does not sink to the same extent as the upper end , and the column thus becomes shorter .
The fall will continue until the column is reduced to that length which the atmosphere is capable of supporting , and the scale attached thus registers what is ordinarily termed the height of the barometer .
From the above description it will be evident that , by merely varying the proportion in the size of the two parts of the tube , a scale of any length can be obtained .
For example , if the tubes are very nearly the same size in bore , the column has to pass through a great distance before the necessary compensation takes place , and we obtain a very long scale , say 10 inches , for every 1-inch rise and fa1 in the ordinary barometer .
But if the lower tube is made much larger than the upper , the mercury passing into it quickly compensates , and we obtain a small scale , say from 2 to 3 inches , for every inch .
To ascertain how many inches this would rise and fall for an ordinary inch of the barometer , I attach it , in connexion with a standard barometer , to an air-pump receiver , and by reducing the pressure in the air-pump I cause the standard barometer to fall , say 1 inch , when the other will fall , say 5 inches ; and so I ascertain the scale for every inch , from 31 to 27 inches .
It was on this principle that I constructed the open-scale barometer , which has since been extensively used .
But having been asked to apply a vernier to one of these barometers graduated in this way , I found this impracticable , as each varied in length in proportion as the bore of the tube varied , so that every inch was of a different length .
I have now remedied this defect , and made what I believe is an absolute standard barometer , by graduating the scale from the centre , and reading it off with two verniers to the th of an inch .
The scale is divided from the centre , up and down , into inches , and subdivided into 20ths .
To ascertaini the height of the barometer graduated in this way , take a reading of the upper surface of the coluimn of mercury with the vernier , then of the lower surface in the same way , and the two readings added together will give the exact length of the column of mercury supported in the air , which is the height of the barometer at the time .
There is another advantage in this manner of graduating over the former , that if a little of the mercury drops out it will give no error , as the column will imrrmediately rise out of the larger tube into the smaller , and become the same length as before ; but by the former scale the barometer would stand too high , until readjusted , which could only be effected by putting the same quantity of mercury in again .
I have introduced Gay-Lussac 's pipette into the centre of the tube , to prevent the possibility of any air passing up into the top .

