220 Capt. E. W. Creak .
Magnetical Results of [ June 20 , Helmholtz ( H. von ) , For .
Mem. R.S. Handbucb der Physiologischen Optik .
Zweite Auflage .
Lief .
11 .
8vo .
Leipzig 1895 .
The Publisher .
Norman ( J. H. ) Prices and Monetary and Currency Exchanges of the World .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Author .
Preston ( T. ) The Theory of Light .
Second edition .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Author .
Prince ( C. L. ) A Record of the Great Frost of January and February , 1895 .
Folio .
Lewes 1895 .
The Author .
Reid ( C. ) On Scottish Inter-Glacial Deposits .
8vo .
[ London ] 1895 ; [ and 2 other Excerpts ] .
8vo .
The Author .
Rockhill ( W. W. ) Diary of a Journey through Mongolia and Tibet in 1891 and 1892 .
8vo .
Washington 1894. .
Smithsonian Institution , Washington .
Schiick ( A. ) Magnetische Beobachtungen an der Deutschen Bucht der NTordsee .
1894 .
8vo .
Hamburg 1895 .
The Author .
June 20,1895 .
The LORD KELVUST , D.C.L. , LL. D. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. J. Wolf Barry , Professor A. G. Bourne , Professor J. R. Green , Mr. E. H. Griffiths , Mr. C. T. Heycock , Professor S. J. Hickson , Major Holden , Prof. W. MacEwen , Dr. S. Martin , Professor G. M. Minchin , and Mr. W. H. Power were admitted into the Society .
A List of the Presents received was laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Magnetical Results of the Voyage of H.M.S. * Penguin/ 1890-93 .
" By E. W. Creak , Captain R.N. , F.R.S. Received May 8 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) In view of the numerous magnetic surveys of different countries which have been made in recent years , it seems important to call attention to the increasing value of magnetic surveys made over that much larger area of the earth , the sea ; the coasts washed by the sea ; magnetic disturbances proceeding from land under the sea , and the settlement of the question of the direction of the iso-magnetics when passing from deep water to the land .
1895 .
] the Voyage of H.M.S. " Penguin , " 1890-93 .
The magnitude of the subject is self evident , therefore it is presumed that under existing circumstances of paucity of information , any well conducted series of observations of the kind required will be welcomed .
H.M. surveying ship " Penguin " being ordered to survey the West Coast of Australia , proceeding there by way of the Suez Canal , it was decided to equip that vessel with the necessary absolute magnetic instruments for observations on land and other necessary instruments for relative observations on board the ship .
The " Penguin " being practically an iron ship , general observations of the magnetic elements at sea were not undertaken , but the special attention of the observing officers was directed to obtaining the following observations :\#151 ; ( 1 .
) The magnetic elements on land at all ports visited .
( 2 .
) Local magnetic disturbances on islands .
( 3 .
) The magnetic survey of the West Coast of Australia , which , until the " Meda 's " observations in 1885-86 , was a terra incognita as far as the inclination and force were concerned .
( 4 .
) The position and extent of an area of remarkable local magnetic disturbance , reported by H.M. surveying vessel " Meda " as situated under the sea at Port Walcott ( N.W. Australia ) and two miles from the visible land .
With regard to ( 1)\#151 ; A series of observations with the absolute instruments were made at twenty-three different places situated on the route from Malta , via Australia , to Hong Kong .
These are shown in Table I. For ( 2)\#151 ; Observations of local magnetic disturbance on land were made at Perim Island and Baudin Island ( H. Australia ) .
At Perim the principal disturbance was found in the inclination , being about 1^ ' to 2 ' in value .
At Baudin Island , the declination was disturbed 5^ ' , the inclination 2f ' .
Horizontal force undisturbed .
For ( 3)\#151 ; The magnetic elements were observed at twelve stations between King George 's Sound and Baudin Island .
With regard to ( 4 ) , the chief interest lies in the area of disturbance termed a " magnetic shoal , " from its situation at 9 fathoms below the sea level .
Four days were devoted to the survey of this shoal , whilst observations were being made on the neighbouring land .
( Data contained in Tables III and IV .
) This survey was necessarily carried out on board the ship with the relative instruments .
The results were the mapping of an area of magnetical disturbance 3^ miles long by If miles average width , extending in a north-easterly direction .
The positions of the greatest easterly disturbance and westerly disturbance having been found in proximity to one another , the ship was moored in the neighbourhood , and observations of declination , inclination , and total force made .
From these a sectional 222 Mr. J. Larmor .
A Dynamical Theory [ June 20 , plan of the magnetic rock cansing the disturbance has been made , and , together with the complete set of observations , the following results have been deduced .
The cause of the disturbance is a ridge of rock permanently magnetized , repelling the north-seeking end of the needle .
In the transverse section this ridge is steeper on the south-east side where the disturbances are at a maximum than on the north-west side .
Lono-i .
-tudinally the ridge rises rather abruptly to a principal peak ( as determined by the point of maximum disturbance of the vertical force ) , followed by a depression , and a second peak , finally falling abruptly to the level .
The principal values of the disturbances caused by this ridge are\#151 ; Declination ... ... .
56 ' E. on S.E. side , 26 ' W. on N.W. side .
Inclination ... ... .
\#151 ; 29 ' .
Horizontal force. .
\#151 ; 1'92 on S.E. side ; +1-04 on N.W. side .
Vertical force ... \#151 ; 4'44 metric units .
A geological survey of the coast at the Red Cliff ( see map ) , where the greatest disturbances of the magnetic elements were observed , was made , and specimens of rock and sand were obtained which have since been tested for susceptibility .
The evidence from these does not give any direct information tending to show the exact nature of the rock causing the remarkable disturbances over the magnetic shoal , but the character of the disturbances caused by the visible and invisible land are of a similar character .
Five diagrams are appended showing the data from which the foregoing results have been deduced , with a map showing the position of the " magnetic shoal " relative to the neighbouring land .
Also a geological map of the Red Cliff and neighbourhood .
II* A Dynamical Theory of the Electric and Luminiferous Medium .
Part II ; Theory of Electrons .
" By Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Received May 16 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) In a previous paper on this subject , * it has been shown that by means of a rotationally elastic sether , which otherwise behaves as a perfect fluid , a concrete realization of MacCullagh 's optical theory can be obtained , and that the same medium affords a complete representation of electromotive phenomena in the theory of electricity .
The ponderomotive electric forcives were , on the other hand , deduced * * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' November , 1893 ; * Phil. Trans. , ' 1894 , A , pp. 719\#151 ; 822 .
I

