An experimental enquiry into the Nature of the radiant heating efects from terrestrial sources .
By Baden Powell , M.A. F.R.S. of Oriel College , Oxford .
Read February 17 , 1825 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1825 , p. 187 .
] In this paper the author first states the opinion of various preceding experimenters on the subject of the heat evolved from non-luminous sources , and from bodies in various degrees of luminosity , and observes that all the facts may be accounted for , by supposing two distinct heating influences , one associated in some very close way with the rays of light , and carried as it were by them through a glass screen without heating it , the other being merely simple radiant heat affected by the screen , exactly as the radiant heat from a nonluminous body .
In order to examine the truth of this explanation , he observes further , that it is not sufficient to observe the effects produced by the intervention of the screen alone , we must combine this with an inquiry into the relations to surfaces of the portions of the heat stopped and transmitted ; that is to say , we must endeavour to discover whether the portions differ in any other respect than merely in transmissibility .
To this end the author institutes a set of experiments , whose general principle he states to be , " taking different luminous hot bodies , to expose to their influence two thermometers presenting , one a smooth black surface , the other an absorptive white one : thus obtaining the ratio of their total direct effects on the two , we may compare it with the ratio similarly observed , when a transparent screen is interposed .
" After noticing some causes of fallacy necessary to be guarded against , he proceeds to describe his apparatus , which consisted of two thermometers , A and B , of large and nearly equal bulbs graduated to quarters of centigrade degrees , one whitened with a wash of chalk and water , the other blackened with Indian ink .
In other experiments a differential thermometer was used , one ball being only exposed to the heating influence under various coatings , and the other carefully screened , so as to reduce the effect as much as possible to that on a mere air thermometer .
A variety of experiments on the heating effects of various flames , incandescent metals , &amp;c. , on these thermometers so prepared , and both screened and unscreened with glass plates , are then detailed ; and the author then draws his general conclusions , which may be thus stated .
1 .
That the heat radiated from all luminous hot bodies is divided or analysed by a glass screen into two portions , one of which is stoplped by the screen , and employed in increasing its temperature , and the other passes through it without raising its temperature .
2 .
That besides this difference in the nature of the two portions of the total radiation , they differ in their capabilities of being absorbed by the surfaces of bodies .
That portion which passes freely through glass being absorbed much more readily by blackened surfaces , while the other , or non-transmissible portion , is nearly equally well absorbed by black and white surfaces .
The texture of surfaces , rather than their colour , he supposes to exercise the chief influence in determining the absorption of this latter portion , though this last-mentioned opinion is , perhaps , rather adopted in conformity with the language of others , than in consequence of any experiments detailed in the present paper .

