]\gt ; Mr. H. Mance on the Measurement [ Jan. 19 , definite patches ; these are the cranial roof-bones .
Arouud the mouth there are cartilages like those of the Lamprey and the Chimaera ; but these yield in interest to the proper facial bars , which are as follows .
namely :\mdash ; FirsC pair , the " " trabeculae Second pair , the mandibular arch .
Third pair , the hyoid arch .
And fourth to seventh pairs : these are the branchials .
These are all originally separate pairs of cartilaginous rods ; and from these are developed all the complex of the mouth , palate , face , and throat .
The pterygo-palatine arcade is merely a secondary connecting bar developed , after some time , between the first and second arches .
Meckel 's cartilage arises as a segmeutary bud from the lower part of the second , and the " " stylo-cerato-hyal , \ldquo ; as a similar secondary segment , from the third arch .
By far the greater part of the cranium ( its anterior two-thirds is developed by ving laminae from the trabeculae , which after a time be- come fused with the posterior or verlebral part of the skull .
When the tadpole is a frog , the hyoid arch undergoes a truly wonderful amount of metamorphosis .
The upper part , answering to the hyomandibular of the fish ( not to the whole of it , but to its upper half ) , becomes the " " incus and a detached segment becomes the " " orbiculare which wedges itself between the incus and the ' stapes The stapes is a " " bung\ldquo ; cut out of the " " ear-sac.\ldquo ; The stylo-cerato-hyal is set free , rises higher and , and then articu- Iates with the\ldquo ; opisthotic\ldquo ; region of the ; in the toad it coalesces with , as in the mamm .
The lower part of the hyomandibular coalesces with the back of the pair of the mandibular arch ; and the " " symplectic\ldquo ; of the osseous fish appears whilst the tadpole is acquiring its limbs and its lungs , and then melts back again into the arch in front ; it is represented , however , in the bull-frog , but not in the common species , by a distinct bone .
This very rough and imperfect abstract must serve at present to indicate what has been seen and worked out in this most instructive vertebrate .
II .
" " Method of the Resistance of a Conductor or of a Battery , or of a Telegraph-Line influenced by unknown Earthcurrents , from a single Deflection of a nometer of unknown nesistance By HENRY MANCE , Superintendent Mekran Coast and Persian Gulf raph Department , Kurrachee .
Sir .
THOMSON .
Received January of a circuit , such as that shown in fig. 1 , exercised by the shunt A , as vell as the 1871 .
] of Electrical sistance .
249 total resistance of the whole between and , can be easily ascertained by simple and well-known formulae .
But let a leakage , which we will suppose gives perfect earth , be applied at some point in shunt A , the deflection previously produced on by a current arising in will probably be considerably changed .
I say probably , because by sliding the the whole 1 of the shunt , we shall at last a point at which the needle will return to its original deflection ; the position of being ascertained , any resistance varving from finity to " " dead earth\ldquo ; may be applied without causing any change in the deflection of the needle .
It is that , although the total resistance of the circuit between has been lessened by the insertion of the leakage , a proportionately larger amount of current is diverted from the galvanometer by that part of the shunt between and the leakage at Z. Presuming the electromotive in to remain constant , and taking , we have the intensity of the current passing through represented by the equation ; but after is ) ected , the equation becomes As the condition that the galvanometer deflection remains unchanged , the first of these equations must be equal to the second , from which we obtain the formula the resistance being immaterial .
It will erefore be seen that always bears the same proportion to that does to , the latter braIlches bearing some analogy to the proportion-coils of a Wheatstone testing bridge . .
H. Mance on the at all .
In a submerged cable there is frequently sufficient to supply the electromotive force in the branch ; if not , can be inserted to maintain a steady current , and the internal the cells afterwards deducted .
The polarization-current from low resistance in a cable would enable us to find the resistance side through the fault without the application of a battery .
And , this method may be used to ascertain the internal tance of a battery .
The above method occurred to me about two years since during some experiments made to determine the resistance of the bridge-circuit and the exact proportion of current traversing each branch of the Wheatstone balance when the potentials at and are unequal .
If I equals the intensity of the current at or , and the intensities in the sections , the1l . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) . . . . .
( 4 ) Or if the current in the branch passes from to should be substituted for the denominator of the last equation .
Equations ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) , and ( 4 ) give the shunt-coefficient of the respective branches ; thus if a galvanometer , the strength of the deflection recorded multiplied by equation ( 1 ) would give the value of intensity I. If , then , we consider a galvanometer and the resistance a leakage applied at , we have a similar diagram to that given in fig. 1 ; and the first of the five equations given above will enable us to determine the shuntcoefficient for the part A which lies between and the leakage at Z. of Electrical Resistance .
Now this , together with the of testing described in the first paragraph , suggests an easy method for ascertaining by calculation the combined resistance of auy system of derived circuits connected in the form of the Wheatstone 's parallelogram ; thus if I wish to know the resistance offered to the passage of a current between and in fig. 3 , I can find it iu he following manner .
First assume the existence at of a sixth ) ranch bearing ( in resistance ) the same proportion to that A does to ; that is to say , the supposititious branch Now disconnect from the point , and we have again a diagram similar A to that in fig. 1 ; and as we have provided that ' the connexion or onnexion of at the point will make no difference whatever in the quantity of current passing from into the branch G. I may therefore assume that , although the total resistance of the circuit between and has been decreased , the branch A has at the same time been able to divert a proportionately greater amount of cnrrent from the side , in which the intensity remains unaltered .
If , then , equals the resistance between and when the branch is disC0tlnected , the shunt-coefficient which forms a shunt in the absence of the resistance between and after is connected at the shunt-coefficient for the part A ascertained by equation ( 1 ) , we have ; and minus the supposititious branch will give the required comresistance of the circuit between and Let be the combined resistance .
Commencing with the equation G. A. On the Internal Resistance of a Multiple Battery .
[ Jan. 19 , we obtain If the potential at equalled that at , the formula would of course be sufficient .
III .
" " Measurement of the Internal Resistance of a Multiple Battery by adjusting the Galvanometer to Zero By HENRY MANCE .
Communicated by Sir .
THOMSON , .D .
, F.R.S. Received January 1 , 1871 .
The following method of taking the internal resistance of a battery will be found to give excellent results wheu several cells are to be tested .
Take one element from the rest of the cells and the circuit as in the annexed figure .
Connect the poles of the battery under observation by a shunt , and adjust the resistance of the latter till zero is obtained on the galvanometer .
Let be the number of cells tested , number of cells opposed , resistance of shunt , internal resistance of E. Then .
In practice I usually returned the detached cell to the battery when gave the internal resistance of the whole within a fraction of a unit .
It is assumed that the eIectromotive force in equals that of the whole battery multiplied by ; the chance of error on account of this not exactly the case would be lessened by a larger number of cells than one when the internal resistauce of the remaining portion vould given by the first

