2 .
" On the Influence of the Moon on the magnetic direction at Toronto , St. Helena , and Hobarton .
" By Colonel Edward Sabine , R.A. , V.P. and Treas .
Received Nov. 17 , 1853 .
Having noticed the inference drawn by M. Kreil from the magnetic observations at Milan and Prague , that the moon exercises an influence on the magnetic direction at the surface of our globe , cognisable by a variation in the declination depending on the moon 's hour-angle and completing its period in a lunar day , the author proceeds in this paper to state the results of an examination , analogous to that pursued by M. Kreil , into the influence of the moon on the magnetic declination at the three stations of Toronto , St. Helena , an(i Hobarton .
The observations employed in this investigation consisted of six years of hourly observation at Toronto , five years at St. Helena , and five years at Hobarton , forming , exclusive of observations omitted on account of excessive disturbance , a total of 105,747 observations .
The processes are related by which , after the separation of the disturbances of largest amount , the observations were treated , for the purpose of eliminating the variations due to solar influence , and of re-arrangement in a form by which the inequality of the moon 's action at the different hours of each lunar day might be brought distinctly into view .
The results are shown in tables exhibiting the amount of inequality at each of the three stations corresponding to each of the twenty-four lunar hours .
It appears from these results that the existence of a lunar diurnal variation in the magnetic declination is shown at each of the three stations of Toronto , St. Helena , and Hobarton , and that it has the same general character at each , viz. that of a double progression in a lunar day , having two easterly maxima nearly at opposite points of the hour-circle , and two westerly maxima also at nearly two opposite points of the hour-circle .
The extreme elongations are not at precisely opposite points of the hour-circle at any of the three stations , nor have the amounts of the two elongations which take place in the same direction always precisely the same value ; but the slight inequalities in these respects are within the limits which might be ascribed to accidental variations , and might therefore disappear with longer continued observations .
It is otherwise , however , in the author 's opinion , with the disparity between the amounts of easterly and westerly extreme elongations which presents itself at each of the three stations .
At Hobarton and St. Helena the westerly elongations have the larger values , at Toronto the easterly ( the north end of the magnet being referred to in all cases ) .
The times at which the extreme elongations in the two directions take place are not the same at the three stations , and are as follows : At Toronto the easterly extremes take place about the hours of 0 and 12 , being the hours of the upper and lower culminations ; at St. Helena the westerly extremes about two hours before the culminations ; and at Hobarton about two hours after the culminations .
At Toronto the westerly extremes take place about the hours of 6 and 18 ; at St. Helena and Hobarton the easterly extremes respectively two hours before and two hours after the same hours of 6 and 18 .
The extreme inequality , or the amount of lunar variation measured from one extreme elongation to the other , is about 28 " of arc at Toronto , 20 " at Hobarton , and 11"t at St. Helena .
The resolved portion of the terrestrial magnetic force which acts in the horizontal direction , and is opposed to any disturbing influence , is approximately 3*54 at Toronto , 4-51 at Hobarton , and 5'57 at St. Helena .

