and Methods employed in determining the Direction and Intensity of Terrestrial Magnetism .
" By Samuel Hunter Christie , Esq. M.A. F.R.S. The tedious nature of the observations by which the direction and intensity of the terrestrial magnetic force are determined , and the uncertainty attending the results when obtained , have long been a subject of regret to all who are engaged in the investigation of the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism .
Sensible of this , the author 's at ?
tention has at different times been turned to the improvement of the instruments employed for these purposes ; and in this communication he proposes methods by which he considers that these instruments might be so improved that the results should be obtained with greater facility and also with greater certainty .
The uncertainty attending the results obtained with the dipping needle , as at present construct ?
ed , arises principally from the two sources , friction upon the axis , and the want of coincidence of the needle 's centre of gravity with the axis of motion ; the latter rendering necessary the inversion of its poles .
The author suggests a method by which he considers that , probably , the friction may be diminished ; but he has principally directed his attention to obviate the necessity of the inversion of the poles .
In order to remove the practical difficulty attending the adjustment of the centre of gravity to the axis of motion , an operation in which the artist rarely , if ever , completely succeeds , the author proposes to dispense with this condition ; and shows how the dip may then be determined , without the necessity of inverting the poles of the needle , the position of its centre of gravity having been determined previously to its being magnetized .
The advantages attending the method proposed by the author are not , however , restricted to the determination of the dip with greater accuracy and greater facility : a further and still greater advantage attending the use of a dipping needle on the principle he proposes , is , that a measure of the terrestrial magnetic intensity will be obtained by the same observations which give the dip ; so that , bythis means , the observations usually required for that purpose , and which are of the most tedious nature , will be avoided .
To effect both these objects in the most convenient manner , he proposes that the needle should be so constructed that its centre of gra ?
vity should be out of the axis of motion , in a line perpendicular to that axis and to the axis of the needle .
The requisite formula ?
for determining the dip and the measure of the terrestrial intensity , in this case and also when the centre of gravity is in any other position , are investigated in the paper .
Mayer had previously pointed out that the dip might be determined by means of a needle having its centre of gravity out of the axis of motion , and had given the formula ?
requisite for that purpose .
His object , however , does not appear to have been the same as our author 's , ?
the avoiding in all cases that source of inaceuraey , the inversion of the poles of the needle , ?
but simply the determination of the dip , whether the centre of gravity of the needle were made to coincide with the centre of motion , or not : the determination of a measure of the terrestrial intensity , by such means , does not appear to have entered into his contemplation .
As another form in which the same principles might be advantageously applied , the author proposes that two needles , similar in all respects , should be placed on the same axis ; and points out how , by means of such a compound needle , both the dip and intensity might be determined by independent methods , so that the agreement of the results would afford a test of the accuracy of the adjustments and of the observations .
He considers that the knife-edge support , which has recently been adapted to a dipping needle , would be peculiarly applicable to a needle of this construction .
The sensibility of such a needle would be much greater than that of any hitherto constructed , and the utmost delicacy would be required in the adjustments ; but if the needle were accurately constructed , and due care were taken in the magnetizing , and in making the adjustments and observations , the author expects that the dip and intensity would be determined to a degree of certainty hitherto unattained .
The advantages proposed to be derived from the use of a dipping needle on the principle described in this paper , are , that as the dip would be obtained without inversion of the poles , the results would be less liable to error than when that operation is necessary , and the observations would be made in less than half the time usually required ; and that a measure of the intensity of terrestrial magnetism would be obtained from the same observations which give the dip , the intensity of the force being thus always determined by means of the same needle , and at the same instant as its direction .

