70 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , j is lost on immersion of the coral in nitric acid .
The colouring-matter \ was not analyzed by Mr. Gilliman .
In the Atlas of the ' Voyage de 1'Astrolabe , ' Zoophytes , pi .
20 .
figs. 12 , 13 , 14 , the expanded polyps of Heliopora are figured by MM .
Hombron and Jacquinot .
In fig. 14 sixteen very short , simple , conical tentacles are shown , in fig. 13 only fifteen tentacles .
The figures are evidently very erroneous .
The corresponding description I have been unable to refer to , the volume containing it being wanting in the Hawaiian Government copy .
In the Zoology of the 'Voyage de l'Uranie , ' Quoy and Gaimardr Paris , 1824 , p. 656 , is a description of the polyps of ( .
) ccerulea .
The expanded polyps have radiated tentacles , and are said to entirely hide the corallum when they are in an expanded condition .
Experiments proved that communication between the animals is somewhat imperfect , since a stimulus applied to any part of the colony caused only the polyps in that immediate neighbourhood to retract themselves .
In the plates of the ' Voyage de 1'IIranie , ' pi .
96 .
figs. 5 , 6 , 7 , Heliopora is figured , showing in fig. 5 the appearance of the coral in the fresh state , but without any representation of the polyps .
November 30 , 1875 .
ANNIVERSARY MEETING .
Dr. J. DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Dr. W. Pole , for the Auditors of the Treasurer 's Accounts on the part of the'Society , reported that the total receipts during the past year , including a balance of .\#163 ; 274 11s .
10 carried from the preceding year , amount to \#163 ; 4915 19s .
11c ? .
; and that the total expenditure in the same period amounts to \#163 ; 4672 9s .
11c ? .
, leaving a balance at the Bankers ' of \#163 ; 220 13s .
8c ? .
, and \#163 ; 24 6s .
4c ? .
in the hands of the Treasurer .
The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors .
The Secretary read the following Lists :\#151 ; 1875 .
] Anniversary .
Fellows deceased since the last Anniversary .
On the Home List .
Lieut.-Col. North Ludlow Beamish , K.H. ( in 1872 ) .
William John Blake , M.A. General John Briggs .
Rev. Thomas Burnet , D.D. Benjamin Bond Cabbell , M.A. Richard Christopher Carrington , F.R.A.S. Rev. Charles Boileau Elliott , M.A. John Edward Gray , Ph. D. Daniel Hanbury , F.L.S. John Hardwick , D.C.L. William Jory Henwood , F.G.S. The Very Rev. Walter Farquhar Hook , D.D. Rev. John Hoppus , LL. D. Capt. Joseph Henry Kay , R.N. Prof. Thomas Hewitt Key , M.A. Francis Kieman , F.R.C.S. Sir Charles Locock , Bart. , M.D. Sir William Edmond Logan , LL. D. Sir Charles Lyell , Bart. , LL. D. Rear-Admiral Sherard Osborn , C. B. Jesse Watts Russell , D.C.L. The Right Hon. Sir Edward Ryan , M.A. William Sanders , F.G.S. Rev. Canon William Selwyn , D.D. Charles Blacker Yignoles , Y.-P .
Inst. C.E. Thomas Webster , M.A. Sir Charles Wheatstone , Knt. , D. C.L. Sir John Gardner Wilkinson , Knt. , D.C.L. Rev. Robert Willis , M.A. Colonel Philip York .
On the Foreign List .
Friedrich Wilhelm August Arge- Jean Baptist J.D'Omalius d'Halloy .
lander .
Samuel Heinrich Schwabe .
Fellows elected since the last Anniversary .
On the Home List .
William Archer , M.R.I.A. James Risdon Bennett , M.D. Dietrich Brandis , Ph. D. , F.L.S. James Caird , C.B. Henry Howard Molyneux Herbert , Earl of Carnarvon .
Prof. John Casey , LL. D. Right Hon. Sir James William Colvile , Knt. August Dupre , Ph. D. , F.C.S. Right Hon. William Edward Forster .
James Geikie , F.R.S.E. James Whitbread Lee Glaisher , M.A. Right Hon. Russell Gurney , Q.C. J. BaboneauNickterlien Hennessey , F.R.A.S. Emanuel Klein , M.D. E. Ray Lankester , M.A. George Strong Nares , Capt. R.N. Right Hon. Sir Stafford Henry Northcote , C.B. Robert Stirling Newall , F.R.A.S. William Chandler Roberts , F.C.S. Major-General II .
Y. D. Scott , R.E. , C.B. Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , On the Foreign List .
Pierre J. van Beneden .
Joseph Louis FranSois Bertrand .
Alfred Louis Olivier Des Cloizeaux .
Hippolyte Louis Pizeau .
Elias Magnus Pries .
Jules Janssen .
August Kekule .
Gustav Robert Kirchhoff .
Carl Ludwig .
The President then addressed the Society as follows :\#151 ; Gentlemen , The year that has elapsed since our last Anniversary has been a memorable one under both pleasurable and painful aspects : on the one hand we have lost by death a greater number of and more illustrious Pellows than during any year within our recollection ; on the other , our sphere of activity has been enlarged in various directions , so that , if it has been the saddest , it has been also the most busy year known to any of us .
Our losses , numbering no less than thirty-two , include two most eminent geologists , Sir Charles Lyell and Sir William Logan ; two physicists in the foremost rank , Sir Charles WTieatstone and the Rev. Prof. Willis ; the most learned pharmacist of his day , Mr. D. Hanbury ; a zoologist of great repute and long career of astonishing activity , Dr. J. E. Gray ; together with three men of great eminence in letters , and one for public services , The Right Honourable Sir Edward Ryan , The Yery Reverend Dean Hook , Sir John Gardner Wilkinson , and Admiral Sherard Osborn .
On the foreign list I have to record the names of two great astronomers in Priedrich W. A. Argelander , of Bonn , and Heinrich Schwabe , of Dessau , and a distinguished geologist , f Jean Baptiste J. D'Omalius d'Halloy , of Brussels .
Por evidences of our activity , I must refer to our publications and to the number of papers read at our Meetings ; to the labours of the Committees that have been employed on duties in connexion with Expeditions , all more or less under the authority of Her Majesty 's Government , as the " Polar , " the " Total Solar Eclipse , " and the " Transit-of-Venus " Expeditions , or in duties such as appertain more directly to the business of the Society .
On the recommendation of the Soiree Committee , in addition to the annual Conversazione , two very successful Evening Receptions of a less public character , to which the invitations were of necessity very limited , were held in our Library .
Their repetition during the present session will no doubt be considered by the Committee , and if thought desirable , will be recommended to the Council , who will , I am sure , heartily cooperate with the Officers in any plan for promoting scientific reunions appreciated by the Fellows .
President 's Address .
1875 .
] The Library Committee has had under consideration the mode of publication of our ' Transactions/ so as to afford to specialists and the public the opportunity of obtaining copies of separate papers at the lowest cost .
The result is a recommendation , adopted by the Council , that a certain number of copies of every paper\#151 ; the paging as in the Transactions being retained\#151 ; shall be placed with the publishers , Messrs. Trubner and Co. , for separate sale , without prejudice to the usual grant of free copies to the authors .
It has also been determined that the Parts of the Philosophical Transactions shall be published , with cut edges , in cloth boards , at no additional cost to the Fellows .
The Catalogue of Scientific Papers for the decade 1864 to 1873 inclusive is so near completion , that it will be ready for the printer in a few months .
It comprises at present ninety-five thousand titles , and will probably occupy two volumes , of the same dimensions as those already published .
As you are aware , the whole expense of preparing the Catalogue was borne by the Society , and the printing of the six volumes was undertaken by the Treasury , at the instance of Lord Palmerston and Mr. Gladstone .
An application will be made to Her Majesty 's Government for the means of printing the decade now all but ready ; it will cost proportionally less than the former series , and I cannot but believe that the means for so important an undertaking will , as before , be granted .
The second volume of Dr. Klein 's work ' On the Anatomy of the Lymphatic System ' has been published , and one hundred copies have been distributed by the Council .
The cost of the illustrations of this and the former volume was defrayed out of the fund of the Government Grant .
You will observe in the Treasurer 's printed balance-sheet that a larger sum than heretofore is now paid for insurance against fire .
In entering into occupation of our new house , your Council resolved on fully protecting the Society ( so far as is possible by insurance ) , and an efficient valuation of our property was made , the Library , containing more than thirty-eight thousand books , being taken at \lt ; \#163 ; 18,000 , and the Portraits and Busts at .\#163 ; 4000 .
Notice has been received from the Society 's Solicitors that the portion of the Dircks ' Estate to which we are entitled\#151 ; has at last been set free , and that the amount ( about .\#163 ; 1000 ) will shortly be paid to our Treasurer .
The Handley Bequest is , I regret to say , still subjudice in Chancery .
A portion of the Society 's land at Acton , comprising 145 square yards , required for the site of a Parsonage , has been sold to the Ecclesiastical Commissioners for a sum of \lt ; \#163 ; 350 .
You have learned , with mingled feelings of regret and of satisfaction , that our late most eminent Fellow , Sir Charles Wheatstone , has , with that devotion to science and to the Society that distinguished his long and 74 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , intimate connexion with us , bequeathed a sum of \#163 ; 500 in augmentation of the Donation Fund .
The Election Statutes.\#151 ; At our Anniversary of last year the attention of the Meeting was called by Dr. Williams to the present limitation in the election of ordinary Fellows ; and though no action was taken at the time , the subject appeared to me to be one so deeply affecting the interests of the Society , that I did not hesitate to take the earliest opportunity of submitting it to the deliberations of the Council .
This resulted in the appointment of a Committee to consider the whole question of the " Election Statutes .
" In the mean time Dr. Williams addressed to myself a letter embodying his views on the subject , which , having been printed and circulated throughout the Society , requires my acknowledgment from this Chair , and is entitled to the most full and careful consideration .
Therefore , while disclaiming the slightest intention to criticize the letter in a hostile spirit , and while fully appreciating the interest in the Society 's welfare which caused Dr. Williams to raise the question of a revision of the Election Statutes , I feel bound to remark that I cannot think he had considered the question in all its aspects , or made allowance for the effects of that inability on his part , which he so candidly admits and regrets , to take , during forty years ' Fellowship , any active part in the proceedings of the Society .
Had it been otherwise , he would surely not , without some reservation , have instanced the reduction in the number of Fellows since the present rules have been in force as a loss to the Society which had not been anticipated ; he would have been aware that the rules now in operation had been approved by the Society individually and collectively , and with ample deliberation , before their embodiment in the Statutes .
He would also have known that it was with the full knowledge and intention that such a reduction would and should result from this step that the rules were adopted , and that the rate and amount of reduction formed the subject of investigation and report by an eminent Fellow and Statistician , Mr. Galloway ; and lastly , that the rate of reduction , as then anticipated and taken into account , has been slower than was calculated , and that our number for some years to come will still be in excess of that which in 1847 was , and I have reason to believe still is , thought large enough by the great majority of our Fellows .
Again , it is undoubtedly under a misapprehension that it is asserted that the general result of the present limitation in the number annually elected has been the " rejection of two thirds or more of the candidates .
" The fact is that ( putting aside the application of the term " rejection " to that which , in the majority of cases , is merely " postponement " ) two thirds of all whose names have been suspended have actually been elected , not rejected ; and the average duration of suspension of the elected candidates President 's Address .
\#166 ; 1875 .
] .has been under two years .
Furthermore , from the one third who have not 3'been elected are to be excluded the deaths , the withdrawals , and those whose ^proposers have omitted to suspend their names a second year .
Subtracting these , the " caput mortuum " is not only a very small one , but is one which the Society would not , in my judgment , wish to have taken into ^Fellowship .
* It has been observed , and justly , " that the Fellows know little of the ccomposition of the Scientific Committees , " and that , " if they are to judge by the composition of the Council , the choice seems limited .
" With 9 regard to the first observation I need hardly remind you that the Council Is Minutes , in which the nomination and duties of the Committees and the names of their members are detailed , lie open daily to the inspection of the l Fellows ; and with regard to the second , that Dr. Williams himself f would , were he to inquire , be surprised to know how few resident Fellows there are who , being competent , are both willing and able to serve on the Council .
I have had some experience in public business , and can confidently affirm that , for number and duration of sittings , amount of work brought before them , and amount of thought devoted to that work , I know no labours of the kind more various , onerous , and engrossing than those of the Council and Committees of the Royal Society .
I have had at various times during the last quarter of a century much experience of these Councils , and never knew a year in which , of the ten Members of the Council who , in accordance with the Charter , have to be replaced , there were not some who had attended a very limited number only of its meetings ; and as by a Minute of Council five names of Fellows who have never previously served must annually enter into the composition of the new Council , and as these five are , for the most part , chosen from comparatively new Fellows , it cannot be said that sufficient fresh blood is not annually incorporated .
But for the punctual attendance of the Members of Council , the Officers could not carry on the Society 's business .
These latter meet punctually at 1 p.m. on every Council-day ( sometimes at intervals of a week ) , and sit continuously until the Council breaks up , which is rarely before six .
And if it is difficult to obtain Members to sit in the Council , it is in my experience far more difficult to secure attendance at the Committees , which in many instances include no Councillor among their number .
To go into the reason for this is here not necessary ; it is sufficient to say , that additions to the number of Fellows annually elected would not overcome the difficulty now in question .
I have but one remark to make further on this subject .
It is asked , " Are we not straitened by our restrictive measures ?
" and it is implied that we are unable to meet the cost of illustrations to papers communicated by Fellows .
The following statements , given on the Auditors ' authority in my last year 's Address , have escaped the attention of the writer of the letter , viz. that " there was no cause for apprehension in 76 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , respect of the Society 's funds or income , " and that " there is no want of means for providing illustrations to papers communicated to us for publication .
" I have felt it to be my duty to you to enter with some detail into Dr. Williams 's earnest appeal to me .
There remains to inform you of the constitution of the Committee , and of the result of their labours .
Most fortunately the services of five Fellows were obtainable for this Committee , who were , of any in the Society , perhaps the most competent to aid its deliberations\#151 ; namely , Drs. Gruy and Farr and Mr. Merrifield as statisticians , and Mr. Justice Grove and our late Secretary , Dr. Sharpey , as having taken a very prominent part in the discussion which in 1847 terminated in the adoption by the Society of that mode of election which has been followed ever since , and has raised the Society to its present position .
It is well perhaps that , in a matter so deeply affecting the welfare of the Society , I should name the other members ; they were Dr. Williams himself , and Mr. John Evans , together with the President and Officers , making a Committee of twelve in all .
The following is the Report which they have made to the Council:\#151 ; " Report of the Election Statutes Committee.\#151 ; The Committee appointed to consider whether it is desirable or not to make any alterations in the Statutes relating to the Election of Fellows , have given to the subject the careful consideration demanded by the importance of these Statutes , not only to the Royal Society , but to the general body of workers in science in the kingdom .
" The status of the Royal Society and the widespread recognition of the value of its Fellowship render it highly desirable that , while on the one hand no one shall be admitted to the Society who is not worthy of the honour , on the other , no one who is worthy shall be excluded from the Society , nor even suffer undue delay in entering it .
" At the outset of their deliberations , the Committee unanimously agreed to recommend the maintenance of the principle of the existing Statutes ; that is to say , to leave in the hands of the Council , as at present , the duty of selecting the Candidates to be presented to the Society for election .
" They further agreed , nemine contradithat the number so selected annually ought to be limited .
" The only questions that remained therefore were , ought the number thus limited to be less than at present , greater than at present , or to remain as it is ?
And , practically , the choice was limited to the last two alternatives .
" As a preliminary to the discussion of these alternatives , the Committee thought it desirable to ascertain what may reasonably be expected to be the strength of the Society if the present limitation remains in force .
" The answers of the Fellows of the Society to a circular addressed to them by the Committee , together with other statistical evidence as to the President 's Address .
1875 .
] eige at election and the average duration of life of the Fellows , have been r^arefully considered by several Members of the Committee who are especially qualified to form a judgment on such matters ; and their conclusion is that , under the present mode of election , the average number \gt ; f Fellows , exclusive of the Foreign Members , may be expected to be ibout 430 .
" Considering that the Eoyal Society is no longer , as at the time of its ^foundation , the only scientific corporation in the kingdom , but that mumerous Societies have arisen devoted to one or other of the sciences , it appears to be thought generally desirable that the Eoyal Society should .be distinguished by consisting of those persons who may be regarded as the representatives of , or the most active and successful workers in , the different departments of science , in association with promoters of scientific research and men of signal eminence in statesmanship , art , or letters .
" The Committee have carefully considered whether the present limitation of annual selection to fifteen entails any undue delay in the election of persons who answer to the foregoing description into the Eoyal Society .
They find no ground for asserting that it does , and therefore they have unanimously agreed to recommend that no change be made in that number at present .
" I now pass on to review the part taken by the Society in furtherance of various Government and other expeditions .
The Polar Expedition.\#151 ; Early in December last year a letter was received from the Admiralty stating that Her Majesty 's Government had determined to despatch an expedition to endeavour to reach the North Pole and to explore the coasts of Greenland and adjacent lands , asking at the same time for suggestions on the part of the Society in regard to carrying out the scientific conduct of the Expedition .
The great importance of attaching Scientific Naturalists to such an expedition having been represented to the Government , the Society was informed in January last that the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty were prepared to appoint a Naturalist to each ship , and was asked to recommend two candidates who should be selected for their acquaintance with as many branches of Natural History as possible .
In pursuance of this intimation , your Council recommended to the Admiralty as Naturalists , Mr. Chichester Hart , M.A. , of Trinity College , Dublin , and Captain Feilden , E.A. , gentlemen well recommended to us for their acquirements , both as Naturalists and collectors , and having special qualifications for so arduous an enterprise ; and , further , applied for a grant of \#163 ; 250 to meet the expenses of editing a scientific manual for the use of the Naturalists and Officers generally .
This application having been favourably entertained , Professor Eupert Jones was requested to undertake the compilation and editing of the Biological and Geological portions of the 78 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , Manual , and Professor Adams , of King 's College , the Physical .
The Scientific Instructions to the Naturalists and Officers were contributed by the most competent persons ( who , with two exceptions , were Pellows of the Society ) whose services the Council could obtain .
The whole was published in May , under the title of ' The Natural History , Geology , and Physics of the Arctic Regions , ' and forms , with the Scientific Instructions , an octavo volume of more than eight hundred pages .
In connexion with the Polar Expedition I have to mention the cruise of H.M.S. \#163 ; Valorous , ' which took out to Disco stores for the two ships .
On the representation of Dr. Carpenter in a letter addressed to myself , an application was made by your Council to the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty to employ the 'Valorous ' on her return voyage in making deep-sea and temperature-soundings in Davis 's Straits and the North Atlantic , and to grant a passage to Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys , E.R.S. , and an assistant , and thus take advantage of so favourable an opportunity for continuing in the Arctic Sea those scientific researches which he had so successfully conducted in H.M.S. ' Porcupine ' in 1869 and 1870 .
The application wras at once granted ; and although the voyage was far from prosperous , the weather having been tempestuous and the 'Valorous ' having been in danger a few hours through striking on a sunken rock , the results have been generally satisfactory , and include many new species of pelagic animals .
Captain Loftus Jones and Mr. Jeffreys dredged on the Greenland coast from 70 ' 30 ' N. lat. to the entrance of Davis 's Straits , and in the Atlantic as far as 25 ' 58 ' W. long .
, in depths .of which the greatest was 1785 fathoms ; and temperature-soundings were taken at eleven out of the twenty stations indicated in the Admiralty Instructions .
Among the valuable results obtained is the fact that the fauna of the Greenland seas agrees with its land flora in being mainly Norwegian , there being ( with the exception of the Echinoderms ) an absence of many North-American , forms , which , as it appears , have not been found eastward of the meridian of Cape Chidley in Labrador .
A remarkable mollusk , previously dredged at a depth of about 1000 fathoms off the coast of Portugal by the ' Porcupine , ' and which , when first found in a fossil state in the newer tertiaries of Sicily , was supposed to be an extinct type , reappears in the deep waters of Davis 's Straits ; and a was found , specifically identical with one discovered this year in the opposite hemisphere , viz. in Kerguelen 's Land , by Mr. Eaton , the Naturalist of the Transit-of-Venus Expedition to that island .
A most singular sponge-like diatom , named by Dr. Dickie Jeffreysi , with living Gbbig evince entangled in the colloid connecting-matter of its frustules , was taken in the towing-net .
The existence of a remarkable elevation of the floor of the ocean was ascertained in lat. 56 ' N. , long 34 ' 42 ' W. , where soundings of 690 fathoms were obtained between depths of 1450 fathoms on one side and 1230 fathoms on the other\#151 ; an interesting fact when taken in connexion President 's Address .
" 1875 .
] with H.M.S. * Bull-dog ' having found a similar elevation in lat. 59 ' 40 ' N. [ vud long .
29 ' 30 ' W. It makes known the probable existence of a sub-jceanic ridge running N.E. and S.W. between Great Britain and Green-i land .
Naturalists to the Transit-of-Venus Expeditions.\#151 ; On the recommenda- ; ion of the Council , as I stated last year , Her Majesty 's Government attached a Botanist ( who was also Geologist ) , a Zoologist , and a Cave Explorer to the Expeditions despatched to Rodriguez , and a Naturalist jo the Kerguelen expedition .
These Naturalists have returned , Messrs. Balfour , Gulliver , and Slater from Rodriguez , and the Rev. A. E. Eaton from Kerguelen 's Land , bringing collections and observations in all respects justifying the objects sought , and the Council 's choice of agents for obtaining them .
As regards Rodriguez , the most important result obtained ( and it was i very unexpected one ) is that , whereas in all preceding accounts of this sland it has been described as consisting of a nucleus of granite with flanking beds of sandstone , limestone , and other aqueous rocks , and hence seemed to afford a rare example of a non-volcanic oceanic island , Mr. Balfour shows that neither granite nor sandstone there exist , and that it is composed wholly of igneous rocks , with patches of coralline limestone dong the coast .
It belongs therefore geologically as well as geographically to the Mascarene \#163 ; roup , of which it is a distant outlier , and not to the Seychelles group , as had been erroneously suspected .
The general characters of the Eauna and Flora of Rodriguez were found , in accordance with its geology , to approximate very closely to those of the Mauritian group , upwards of 300 miles to the westward , and not to partake of the distinctive features of the Seychelles , which are Indian rather than African .
What differences there were from the former indicated relationships with far distant countries , and some of them were extremely curious .
The greatest interest no doubt attaches to the extinct animals , chiefly Birds and Tortoises , whose remains are found in the caves of Rodriguez , and which , though extensively collected by Mr. Newton and described by himself , by Dr. Gunther , M. Milne-Edwards , and other authors , ivere still but very imperfectly known .
Of Birds Mr. Slater found remains of thirteen species , of which six are extinct ; one is found living in Bourbon alone , and one of the extinct species is new to science .
Of the famous Solitaire ( the Rodriguez representative of the Dodo ) materials for the construction of a complete skeleton were obtained , together with more complete specimens of other birds first described by M. Milne-Edwards from a few fragments .
The shells and bones of three extinct Tortoises were obtained in great abundance , together with those of a large Skink , said to be still living in the island , but of which no certain information could be obtained .
SO Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , Regarding the circumstances under which the remains were preserved , Mr. Slater finds , from an examination of twelve caves , that these were all formed by the action of water on coralline limestone , but that the beds of earth in which the bones were deposited , and which vary from two to nine feet in depth , are of basaltic material washed or blown into the caves .
Mr. Slater brings forward evidence in support of the hypothesis that the birds were entombed subsequent to the visits of Europeans , and that their entombment is due to their having taken shelter in the caves during the fires that ravaged great parts of the island ; and that elsewhere the Solitaire has been extirpated by imported cats and pigs , the former of which , of large size and great ferocity , still abound .
With regard to the Tortoises , the remains of which are extraordinarily numerous in the caves , there is evidence of their entombment having been subsequent to that of the Birds ; but the direct cause of their extinction is not apparent .
Another noteworthy fact is that , whereas the marshes of Mauritius have yielded the greatest number of Dodo remains , those of Rodriguez appear to contain no bones of its ally the Solitaire or of any other bird .
Mr. Slater 's fine collection was , by permission of the Council , exhibited at Professor Flower 's Soiree at the Royal College of Surgeons in July last , and attracted great attention .
Mr. Gulliver has brought home an extensive collection of the animals of the island , among which all classes are represented except some of the Vertebrates ; of these last the most numerous are the Birds , which had previously been described by Professor Newton .
Ophidians are totally absent ; and Amphibia also , although there are swamps of some extent .
The spiders seemed to abound ; and some new forms were collected , one with an arrangement of the eyes that is unique in the class ; and another spins a web so strong as to be used by the settlers as cobblers do " waxed ends .
" The representation of winged insects by wingless allies , which is so remarkable a feature in other oceanic islands , is not alluded to by Mr. Gulliver as characteristic of the insect fauna of Rodriguez ; nor has he observed any correlation between the insects and flowering plants in respect of the fertilization of the latter .
Mr. Balfour 's report on the Flora of Rodriguez is a very full one ; it refers exclusively to living plants ; for though several of these are almost extinct , no traces of fossil leaves or other parts of plants were found with the birds ' and tortoise bones or elsewhere .
More than one half of the island appears to have been denuded by fires of its indigenous vegetation , which has been replaced by introduced species that are for the most part common social tropical weeds .
The soil is now for the most part arid , whence even the Ferns , of which upwards of 20 species were found , are typical of dry regions .
About 300 flowering plants were collected ; and , as usual in insular floras , the proportion of President 's Address .
S1875 .
] species to genera , and of these to orders , is very much smaller than in riontinental areas .
Thirty-three species , belonging to as many genera , are peculiar to the island , and two of them belong to new genera .
' It is a very remarkable fact that one of these new genera , belonging r o the Natural Order Turneraceae , is most closely allied to a peculiar \#166 ; Panama genus ; and that one of the new species has only a single nongener , which is a Pacific island plant .
There are three Palms , all of .them peculiar , and two Screw-pines ( [ ) .
Dr. Balfour remarks the Extraordinary number of plants whose leaves vary in form at different .
ages .
For other matter , much of it very curious , I must refer to the [ three Deports , which will in due time be published , with sufficient illustrations .
Mr. Eaton 's valuable Deport on the Natural History of Kerguelen 's Land having been already before you , and printed in our ' Proceedings , ' requires no further mention here .
There remains to state that your Council has found reason to express satisfaction with the Deports and Collections of all the Naturalists ; that complete catalogues of the specimens procured will appear in our publications ; that the detailed descriptions and observations will also be published , either by the Naturalists themselves or by competent persons ; that the specimens will be distributed after a complete set has been reserved for our National Collections ; and that the total expenditure amounts to \lt ; \#163 ; 1512 , of which \lt ; \#163 ; 1396 was contributed by Her Majesty 's Government , while the rest has been defrayed out of the Donation Fund .
The Total Solar Eclipse of April 1875.\#151 ; Towards the close of last year the desirability of observing the total eclipse of the Sun , which was to take place in India , engaged the attention of your Council ; and the subject was under its consideration when a letter was received by me from His Majesty the King of Siam , offering hospitality and assistance should the Doyal Society deem it expedient to appoint scientific men to observe it from His Majesty 's dominions .
Your Council being of opinion that both the importance of the occasion ( totality during this eclipse being of longer duration than during any other that would be observed in the present century ) and the liberal offer of His Majesty required careful consideration , appointed a committee of five astronomers and the Society 's Officers to report upon the feasibility of undertaking such an expedition with a reasonable prospect of success .
The Committee was advised that no time was to be lost in arriving at a conclusion , as only four months would elapse before the occurrence 6f the eclipse .
The first step taken was to communicate with the First Lord of the Treasury and the Secretary of State for India , and ascertain whether , VOL. xxiv .
o 82 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 .
should the attempt be made , Her Majesty 's Government would be disposed to cooperate with the Society .
The answers were most favourable ; but still grave doubts were entertained by several of the Committee as to whether it were possible to make the necessary preparations and arrangements with sufficient completeness to secure adequate results .
After much deliberation it was decided in the affirmative , the Committee 's decision being based on the following favouring circumstances:\#151 ; That confidence in its feasibility was expressed by those members of the Committee who had themselves conducted or accompanied Eclipse Expeditions in foreign countries ; that two eminent observers , Messrs. Janssen and Tacchini , were already in India and their services available ; that Her Majesty 's Government would cooperate by proposing to Parliament a grant in aid of .\#163 ; 1000 , which would be augmented by another of .\#163 ; 300 from the Donation-Eund of the Society ; that the Secretary of State for India and the Governor-General of India had promised active cooperation by sending an expedition to the Nicobar Islands , where , as well as in Siam , totality would be visible ; that both the Indian Government and the Admiralty had granted passage in their vessels , and that the Peninsular and Oriental Company had offered to give passage to the observers and their assistants at greatly reduced rates , * that His Majesty the King of Siam would defray all expenses of the party sent to his territories ; and lastly , which perhaps weighed most with the Committee , was Mr. Lockyer 's disinterested offer to superintend all the arrangements of observers and instruments , to prepare the instructions for their guidance abroad , and to make all the necessary telegraphic and other communications with India and the Straits Settlements previous to and during the progress of the Expedition .
As in the case of former Eclipse Expeditions , invitations to take part in the observations were addressed to foreign men of science distinguished for their researches in solar physics ; but Professor Tacchini was the only one who could accept .
At the same time Dr. Vogel , of Berlin , a well-known photographer , was asked to assist , and he accompanied the Expedition .
A communication was received from M. Dumas , the perpetual Secretary of the Paris Academy of Sciences , with reference to Dr. Janssen 's proposed observation of the Eclipse ; and instructions were sent to Singapore that every assistance should be afforded to that distinguished physicist .
As a final result of these preliminary arrangements , there wese two strong parties in position on the morning of the 6th of April , of whose ' members no less than six were sent out from England .
One party , a combination of Italian , Indian , and English , went to Camorta in the Nicobar Islands ; the other , Erench and English , made their way to Chulai Point in Siam .
In the first party were Professor Tacchini , President 's Address .
1875 .
] Captain Waterhouse , Professor Peddler , Dr. Vogel , and Messrs. Meldola and Reynolds ; in the second were Dr. Janssen , Dr. Schuster , and Messrs. Lot and Beasley , each amply provided with assistants .
The Committee decided that at both stations the observations should be mainly photographic ; and the instruments furnished had for their object the registration of the violet spectrum of the corona and chromosphere as a whole , and that of the spectrum of an isolated portion of the image .
Ordinary photographs of the corona and of the polariscopic effects of its light were also provided for .
In spite of the most hopeful anticipations , the weather at Camorta proved bad on the morning of the Eclipse , and , as has been observed on former occasions , the reduction of the temperature , due to the withdrawal of the sun 's heat , produced a mass of cumulus cloud which prevented a most thoroughly equipped party from making any observations whatever during totality .
The success of the Siam party has been also far less than was anticipated .
An unfortunate break-down in the Suez Canal , and some misunderstanding , in consequence of which the promised Government steamer was not forthcoming , caused delays which left so little time for the final adjustment of the instruments when the observers at last reached their station , that some records are altogether wanting ; and the attempt to photograph the spectrum of an isolated portion of the chromosphere proved a failure .
The most important results obtained are ( 1 ) a series of photographs of the corona , taken with a prism of small angle in front of the object-glass , which show several rings and part of the form of the outer corona , and ( 2 ) a series of views of the corona , chiefly taken at different times of exposure .
The discussion of the observations has not yet been taken in hand ; but it is not too early to state that several results of great interest and .
value have been secured .
The King of Siam himself made a sketch of the corona and forwarded it to the Society .
In common with others which accompany the Reports , it does not differ very greatly from the figure photographed on the plate .
I cannot conclude this short reference to one branch of our activity during the past session without congratulating English Science upon the fact that the Eclipse was not suffered to pass unobserved , and without expressing our obligations to all those whose names will be mentioned at length in the Report , who both here and abroad at each stage of the arrangements afforded us valuable assistance , not forgetting the observers themselves , who in the service of science volunteered for a duty not without risk , and from the performance of which , indeed , some have suffered in health .
The ' Challenger ' Expedition.\#151 ; The third year of the* Challenger 's ' voyage 84 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 has been no less fruitful of results than the two preceding ; which is the more satisfactory , as she has lost the services of her indefatigable Commander Captain Nares , who , as you are aware , has been summoned home to command the Polar Expedition .
Interesting discoveries seem literally to have crowded along the course of this vessel , and the scientific storehouses of the deep to have been unlocked at the bidding of Professor Thomson and his busy and able staff .
It would be premature to estimate as yet the probable importance to Biology , G-eology , and Physical Geography of the grand but still imperfect generalizations which are being drawn from the facts sent home from the ship as to the nature and distribution of those microscopic forms of pelagic life , the Eoraminifera and Eadiolaria ; but there can be no doubt that our knowledge of the formation of Azoic clays and schists , and of the processes of metamorphism at great depths , is being greatly enlarged by the operations of the 'Challenger'Expedition .
Nor are the discoveries in submarine geography of less interest\#151 ; such as the finding in the Melanesian Pacific areas which , though only partially circumscribed by islands , exhibit biological and hydrographical phenomena differing widely from those of the circumambient ocean .
In the depths of the sea , as on the surface of the land , are contiguous areas peopled by very different assemblages of living things .
As on the land we ascend to meet a colder temperature , accompanied by forms of life of wider distribution than at lower elevations , so in the seas of warm and temperate regions we descend to meet with analogous conditions .
The ocean thus mirrors one of the most striking features of the distribution of terrestrial life , and , mirror-like , it turns the picture upside down .
Furthermore , this analogy is confined to the warm and temperate zones of the sea : in the cold zones this order of things is reversed ; there , as on land , we descend to warmer temperatures , and the deepest sea is peopled by animals proper to a much lower latitude .
The total result is a uniformity in the general distribution of oceanic life that has no parallel on land ; and facts in the migration of marine animals and plants that were formerly accounted for by assuming that they possessed greater powers of withstanding changes of temperature , are now accounted for by conditions more closely resembling those that obtain on the land .
From such considerations as these it would follow that pelagic life should be less differentiated than terrestrial ; and no doubt it is so ; and to a still more considerable degree is lacustrine and fluviatile life less various than pelagic , in respect of plants especially .
On the other hand , whereas both the mass and variety of vegetable life is much greater on land , the bulk , but not the variety , of animal life is much greater in the ocean .
It is no doubt owing to the infinite variety of food that terrestrial animals have access to , rather than to the diversities of climate , soil , and other conditions , that the land presents so much greater a variety of life than the sea does .
It is true that local assemblages of marine plants have their local faunas , as the Sargasso Sea and the vast - President 's Address .
X1875 .
] meadows of the southern ocean ; but in such cases it is shelter , not food , that has localized the assemblages .
But this reminds me that I am becoming discursive ; and I will conclude my digression by referring to fche rarity of its phytophagous animals , as being to me one of the most wonderful and inexplicable phenomena of oceanic life ; for with the exception of those that live upon the ubiquitous pelagic Diatomaceae , there are very few marine animals of general distribution or of any size that feed on marine plants .
While these words were being penned the sad tidings have reached us of the premature death of one of the brightest intellects and most cultivated members of the ' Challenger ' Scientific Staff , B. von Willemoes-Suhm , whose beautiful paper , " On a new Genus of Amphipod Crustaceans , " appeared in our ' Transactions .
' This admirable piece of work will soon be followed by a second from his pen on Cirripedes , illustrated by six plates , and a third on the development of certain pelagic Decapod Crustaceans .
His loss , which occurred on board off Tahiti , and was due to erysipelas , is , indeed , an irreparable one , and cannot but cloud the last year of the ' Challenger ' voyage .
The protracted absence of H.M.S. Challenger , ' and the great importance in the interest of science that the Director of its Scientific Staff , Professor Wyville Thomson , should not leave the Expedition , has , by detaching that gentleman from his duties in the Natural-History Chair of the Edinburgh University for so much longer a period than was anticipated , placed that University in a very difficult position , and obliged its Court to appeal to the Society .
It was originally arranged that the duties of the Chair should , for the first two years of Professor Thomson 's absence , be undertaken by Professor Carus , of Leipsic ; on the third , Professor Carus being compelled to return to Germany , the University Court represented to the Lords of the Council that , having regard to the fact that Professor Thomson was withdrawn from his professorial duties by Her Majesty 's Government , and in accordance with the strong recommendation of the Boyal Society , it was not unreasonable to hope that both the Government and the Society would come to their aid by permitting Professor Huxley to deliver the University course of Lectures .
The Lords of the Council having granted the permission , your Council did not hesitate to make such arrangements as enabled Professor Huxley to absent 'himself from the Society for the purpose required .
The result has in no way inconvenienced the Society ; Professor Huxley managed to attend the Council-Meetings , he conducted at a distance the editorial work that belonged to him , and such of his duties as could be performed only on the spot were kindly undertaken by Professor Stokes .
I have only to add that Professor Thomson 's return being further delayed till July 1876 , Professor Huxley 's services have again been applied for by the University Court ; and , having been granted by the Lords of the Council , similar arrangements for his absence to those which oltained 86 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , last year will be made by the Council for the months of May , June , and July of 1876 .
The Meteorological Committee.\#151 ; The anomalous connexion between the Royal Society and the Meteorological Office on the one hand , and between that Office and the Government on the other , to which and its consequences I drew your attention in my last year 's Address , is likely soon to be terminated , the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury having appointed a Committee to inquire into the working of the present Office and the value of the results hitherto obtained .
Seeing that the operations of the Committee have been generally in a great measure tentative , and have now extended over nine years , this action of the Government is viewed with satisfaction by the Committee , whose arduous services have been entirely gratuitous during this long period .
The value of their labour is indeed fully recognized in the Treasury Minute appointing the Committee , which expresses absolute confidence in its efficiency , but thinks that the time has arrived for further inquiry .
According to the instructions of the Treasury , the inquiry is to be directed to two principal points of scientific interest , viz.:\#151 ; ( 1 ) How far the statistics hitherto collected have led to the discovery or confirmation of Meteorological Laws .
( 2 ) TIow far the principles upon which storm-warnings are given have been justified by results .
I need hardly observe that these questions open up a very wide field of inquiry of the highest importance to the meteorology of the future , whether in this country or elsewhere .
There can be no question but that the Committee has rendered most important services to science and to the country ; it is held in just estimation among continental physicists , and its methods and results have been in a great measure adopted and followed by them , in many cases without modification .
Still the geographical position of the British Isles is one that renders meteorological inquiry full of difficulty , and hence necessitates a very careful periodic supervision of the measures employed to advance its theories and to apply them to practice .
Unlike the Atlantic States of America , we have no area to the westward of us ( which is emphatically our storm-bearing quarter ) upon which we can establish recording stations .
We can have no system like that of the American meteorologists , which would enable us to obtain that knowledge of the atmospheric disturbances over the Atlantic which they can procure of those which extend over the continental area to the westward of their central Observatories .
On the other hand , England has advantages for promoting the study of terrestrial meteorology that no other country has\#151 ; namely , her foreign possessions and Colonies , and the command of the telegraphs with which the ocean is in process of being crossed in every direction .
WTe .President 's Address .
1875 .
] have known what it is to read at our breakfast-tables telegrams from all parts of the world of the prices of stocks and of political incidents of the previous day ; why should we not , then , obtain daily statistics of the climatic conditions of these and other remote regions , and inaugurate in England a system of meteorological registration which , if its elements were obtained from but a few well-selected spots , would instruct and interest every intelligent person in the climate of the globe , and in the end lead to scientific results of great value ?
We must remember that it is not the policy of the Government of this country in its view of the present state of public feeling , and as expressed in the Minute appointing the Committee , to give direct assistance to the study of any science except with a view to the more immediate application of scientific theories to practical purposes , in which the public rather than individuals have a direct interest .
Whatever may be thought of the wisdom or soundness of this policy ( and in the opinion of some eminent scientific men it is wise and sound ) , we must shape our course accordingly , doing our endeavour never to allow scientific investigation to be subordinated to practical results ; but keeping it ever in advance , remembering too that the Government estimation of the value of scientific investigation is measured more by the amount of interest which it excites than by any standard of its own ; whence it follows that the Government is not slow in encouraging researches that interest and instruct the public , whether or not they may be seen to lead to direct practical results .
' Keeping these facts in view , I cannot but think that the Committee of the Treasury will have the .
opportunity of recommending to Her Majesty 's Government the adoption of measures that would greatly increase the scientific efficiency and public interest of the Meteorological Office .
The Gilchrist Trust.\#151 ; In my last year 's Address I announced that arrangements had been made by the Council for the administration , under the authority of the Trustees of the Gilchrist bequest , of a grant of .\#163 ; 1000 per annum in promoting original research , thus aiding in the fulfilment of the wishes of the Testator , that the proceeds of his large fortune should be devoted " to the benefit , advancement , and propagation of education and learning .
" The scheme for the administration of this grant was approved by the Trustees and laid before you in detail ; but since then its operation has been frustrated by a most unexpected judicial decision formally given in the House of Lords as to the meaning to be assigned to the terms of the Gilchrist bequest\#151 ; namely , that " the promotion of original research " could not be held to be benefiting the advancement and propagation of education and learning , " for that it was expressly laid down by the Law Lords that " learning is to be construed as synonymous with education , " and that the whole fund is to be devoted to th q propagation of knowledge .
This is not the time or place to comment upon what must appear to us 88 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , to be a very strange limitation of the Testator 's wishes ; I can only hope that a more enlightened posterity , the outcome of a more liberal and scientific education than now obtains , will introduce into the theory and practice of the Law an interpretation of the " advancement of learning " more in harmony with scientific ideas and the requirements of the age .
In the mean time it is much to be wished that the prize thus snatched from so high a purpose may yet be made to contribute in some way to the advancement of original research ; and I feel sure that it will be due to no want of energy and goodwill on the part of the Trustees and of their Secretary , Dr. Carpenter , nor of hearty cooperation on the part of the Royal Society , if science reaps no benefit from the Gilchrist Trust .
The Government Loan Collection of Scientific Instruments.\#151 ; It affords me much pleasure to refer to an action on the part of Her Majesty 's Government which we may anticipate will lead to important results to the cultivation of Science in this country .
I mean the Loan Collection of scientific instruments which is to be formed at South Kensington in the course of the ensuing year .
The Lord President and Vice-President of the Council , in introducing this subject to the first meeting of the men of science to whom they have applied for assistance , shadowed forth their own views and hopes that the collection might prove the commencement of governmental action with regard to one of the recommendations of the " Science Commission"\#151 ; that , namely , dealing with the present want of a museum illustrating the sciences of experiment and observation .
The Government has further suggested to the various continental governments the appointment of Commissions , composed of the most eminent men of science , to which we may confidently look for help in selecting the most important instruments that illustrate the history , the advancement , and the spread of science .
In the proposed Exhibition not only are modern scientific methods and instruments and the various methods of practical instruction in science to be fully dealt with , but it is also proposed that the history of science shall be illustrated by the actual instruments which have been employed , from the time of Galileo downwards , in those critical experiments and discoveries which mark the principal stages along the road of progress .
The men of science of this country have already responded so warmly to the appeal made to them , that it is not necessary for me to commend the proposed action to them ; and I may conclude my reference to this subject by the expression of a hope that our fellow-workers in other countries will not rest content with sending their instruments , but will accompany them to London , so as to enable us to assure them personally of our esteem .
On the motion of Sir Thomas Watson , seconded by Sir Alexander Armstrong , it was resolved\#151 ; " That the thanks of the Society be returned President 's Address .
1875 .
] to the President for his Address , and that he be requested to allow it to be printed .
" I now proceed to the presentation of the Medals .
The Copley Medal has been awarded to Professor August " Wilhelm Hofmann , P.R.S. , of Berlin , for his numerous contributions to the science of Chemistry , and especially for his Researches on the Derivatives of Ammonia .
The researches of Dr. A. W. Hofmann , from first to last , are related by a strict logical connexion , from which ( although in various side-paths he has made truly interesting discoveries ) he has never essentially deviated .
Indeed these researches may be considered as constituting one great and prolonged research on the organic bases theoretically and experimentally considered .
It is not , however , to be imagined that because , to a certain extent , limited in its range , this work is of a special or technical order .
The subject covers a large area , and is calculated to lead the investigator to the consideration of the most important chemical problems .
The memoirs of Dr. Hofmann in reference to the organic bases fall under several heads:\#151 ; ( 1 ) The researches on Aniline and the organic bases contained in Coal-tar .
These researches are mainly included in the period between 1843 and 1850 .
( 2 ) The investigations on the molecular constitution of the organic bases derived by the substitution of the Alcohol radicals in the molecule of Ammonia ( 1850-51 ) .
( 3 ) The Phosphorus bases and the Diatomic ammonias ( 1857-60 ) .
( 4 ) The investigations on Bos aniline and the various Colouring-matters derived from Coal-tar ( 1860-70 ) .
In the course of the Aniline investigations Hofmann made an important contribution to the Unitary theory of Chemistry .
Dumas had shown that the essential chemical properties of acetic acid were not altered by the substitution in the acid-molecule of chlorine for hydrogen ; but no organic base had yet been discovered derived from another base by a similar process .
Pritsche , indeed , had made a bromine-derivation of aniline , in which three atoms of hydrogen were replaced by bromine ; but the substance thus formed was a neutral ( not basic ) body .
It occurred to Hofmann that the substitution had here gone too far , and that for this reason the basic properties of aniline had disappeared .
Consequently , by an ingenious process ( devised for the experiment ) , the treatment of chlorisatin by the hydrate of potash , he prepared mono-chloraniline\#151 ; aniline , that is , in which one atom of hydrogen was replaced by chlorine .
This body was a base , like aniline itself .
Hofmann established its basic character by the preparation of many of its salts ( Liebig 's ' Annalen , ' vol. liii .
p. 1 , 1845 ) .
At the date when Hofmann 's paper on the molecular constitution of the volatile organic bases was presented to the Royal Society ( December .1849 ) , Wurtz had just prepared , by a striking experiment , the primary 90 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 monamines of the alcohol radicals\#151 ; that is , a system of bases in which one third of the hydrogen of the ammonia was replaced by the hydrocarbon , the existence of which ( it may be noticed ) had been predicted by Liebig as a consequence of his views as to the composition of the organic bases .
The experiments of Hofmann were in the same direction as those of Wurtz , but of far more general application .
By the action of the iodides of the alcohol radicals upon ammonia , Hofmann replaced successively the three atoms of hydrogen which its molecule contains by these hydro* carbons\#151 ; a method fraught with important results , both theoretical and practical , with which all chemists are familiar .
Among other consequences , this method placed the theory of types on a Solid experimental foundation , which served as the basis of its future development .
A critical test was given , by which the constitution of any given " ammonia " could be ascertained , the number of derivatives of the " ammonia " when subjected to the action of iodide of ethyl corresponding to the number of atoms of hydrogen which it still retained unreplaced by hydrocarbon .
Hofmann applied this test to aniline , and demonstrated , by the successive formation of ethyl-aniline and diethyl-aniline , that this base belonged to the primary monamine class , containing two atoms of hydrogen unreplaced by hydrocarbon .
To trace out , however slightly , the consequences of this method would be a serious task indeed .
It is sufficient to say that the views at present held by chemists as to the molecular constitution of water , according to which water is regarded , like ammonia , as a typical molecule , but containing two atoms of hydrogen ( instead of , as in the other case , three ) replaceable by the alcohol radicals , are based upon experimental evidence for which the very same instrument of research , the iodide of ethyl , and methods in all respects analogous to those by which Hofmann thus established the constitution of aniline were employed .
According to these views triethylaniline represented ammonia in which all possible substitutions of this order had been effected .
However , Hofmann applied his test to this substance , and obtained a most remarkable result .
A molecule of iodide of ethyl combines with a molecule of this substance , giving rise to the iodide of a molecular group , behaving like potassium or sodium , " a true organic metal in all its bearings .
" The ground of this assertion is , that this iodide of tetrethylammonium , when treated with freshly precipitated oxide of silver , is decomposed with the formation of an oxide of the " organic metal " possessing the main features of potash .
This train of investigation has not as yet been adequately pursued ; but the fundamental importance of this experiment , in reference to our knowledge of the elemental bodies , cannot be doubted .
The first memoir on the Phosphorus bases , in which the existence of a class of phosphorus bases analogous to the compound ammonias was experimentally established , was published in conjunction with M. Cahours .
In three subsequent memoirs these compounds were further investigated President 's .
01 1875 .
] with the determination of the differences by which they were discriminated from their nitrogen analogues .
We have here presented to us the first example of a diatomic base formed by the action of bromide of ethy-line or triethyl-phosphine , in which reaction ( as in the similar case of the diatomic alcohols ) Hofmann successfully established the formation of an intermediate monatomic bromide , the reaction taking place by two distinct stages .
In the third of these memoirs a new class of compound bases is brought before us , containing both nitrogen and phosphorus .
Subsequently , in a series of somewhat less elaborate memoirs , the conception of the typical character of ammonia is greatly expanded by the examination of the derivatives of two and three molecules of ammonia .
As to the researches in reference to the colouring-matter derived from coal-tar , it is only necessary to observe that his inquiries initiated and rendered possible what is now a vast branch of industry .
In reference to rosaniline itself ( the key of the system ) , he established the fact , long unknown , that this substance was not an aniline compound at all , but derived from the combination of aniline with toluidine .
- I may lastly mention , as a fitting conclusion to this series of discoveries , an investigation of very wide interest , which has resulted in the construction of the normal cyanides ( a ) of the monatomic hydrocarbons , formed by the action of chloroform on the primary monamines , which , together with water , are resolved into formic acid and the base whence they are derived ; while their isomers ( Class B ) , the nitrites , under similar conditions yield ammonia and their corresponding acids .
Hofmann has also established the existence of a new class of -cyanates ( / 3 ) of the same monatomic hydrocarbons which , together with water , are resolved into ammonia and their corresponding alcohols , the original class ( a ) being resolved under the same circumstances into carbonic acid and the primary monamines , as in the experiment of Wurtz before referred to , the whole investigation standing in intimate connexion with Hofmann 's previous work .
To estimate the value of these results it is necessary to go through the vast mass of experimental evidence from which they are deduced , which constitutes a body of complete and exact information in reference to one general subject not easily paralleled in the history of Chemistry .
The Medal was received by Dr. Hofmann .
A Boyal Medal has been awarded to Mr. William Crookes , F.B.S. , for his various chemical and physical researches , more especially for his discovery of Thallium , his investigation of its compounds , and determination of its atomic weight ; and for his discovery of the repulsion referable to radiation .
In the year 1861 Mr. Crookes communicated the discovery of a new element , which he had detected by means of a green line exhibited in the spectrum of certain selenium residues which he was examining for 92 Anniversary .
[ Nov. 30 , tellurium .
The element had as yet been found in extremely small quantities only ; but yet he was able to prove chemically as well as optically that it was a new substance , which , from some of its reactions , he thought most probably belonged to the sulphur group of elements , and to which he gave the name Thallium .
The investigation of this new substance was eagerly followed out ; and by inquiries in various directions he succeeded in obtaining it in larger quantities , though his supply was still most inconveniently small , rendering it necessary to work the same material over and over again , instead of carrying on the investigation of two or more of its compounds simultaneously .
This investigation , which had led him to perceive that the new body was a metal , which he isolated , was in progress when ( in the summer of 1862 ) he was induced to send in a preliminary notice of his investigations to the Royal Society , instead of waiting , as he had intended , till the research was complete , in consequence of the publication by M. Lamy ( who had been fortunate enough to meet with a comparatively fertile source of the new substance ) of a paper in which he described several of its compounds and announced its metallic nature .
The complete memoir was presented to the Royal Society early in 1863 , and is published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for that year .
It contains , among other things , a provisional determination of the atomic weight , giving a mean result of 203*96 , The atomic weight of an element being a constant of fundamental importance , Mr. Crookes spared no pains in an accurate determination of that of thallium .
This research , which extended over several years , is described in a highly elaborate memoir which was presented to the Royal Society in 1872 , and is published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for the following year .
The various weighings which the investigations required were performed and reduced with the most scrupulous regard to minute accuracy , as the utmost care was taken in the preparation of the chemicals .
Though only one method was employed , namely that of determining the weight of nitrate of thallium obtained from a known weight of the metal , the care with which the whole process was conducted , and the near agreement of the different experiments , are such as to lead us to regard the final mean 203*642 as most probably very near the truth .
In the course of the weighings which were executed in this research , Mr. Crookes noticed some minute anomalies depending on temperature which did not seem referable to currents of convection .
This led him into a train of experimental research which resulted in the discovery of an action of radiation which , whatever be its real nature ( a point still involved in mystery ) , and whether the action be direct or indirect , all who have seen or followed the experiments must allow to be most remarkable .
An account of this research was published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1874 .
President 's , 1875 .
] When delieate beams of straw and other materials , carrying pith balls or disks at their ends , were mounted so as to turn as freely as possible within glass vessels from which the air could be exhausted , it was found that at atmospheric pressure the approach of a hot body produced a movement usually indicative of an attraction , real or apparent , between the ball and the body , and that of a cold body a reverse movement .
In these motions , however , it is evident that currents of convection play a leading part ; nor does it appear by any means certain that the actions may not be due to these and other well-known causes .
The same thing continues when the air is partially exhausted , until , at a certain high rarefaction varying according to circumstances , the motions cease , or nearly so .
But on passing this , a new and unexpected phenomenon is revealed , which is exhibited in perfection in chemical vacua , and in the best vacua produced by the Sprengel pump with the improvements which Mr. Crookes has introduced into it .
The suspended body is now repelled with striking energy when a source of radiant heat or light is presented to it , or even , if the radiation be powerful , when it is held at some distance , or when the sun 's rays concentrated by a lens are thrown upon it .
The action has more recently been exhibited by Mr. Crookes in an exceedingly striking form by means of a horizontal 4-armed fly delicately mounted on a sharp point , and carrying at the ends of the arms pith disks in vertical planes passing through the arms , the disks being blackened on one face , on the same side for all .
The motion depends in this case on a differential action on the black and white faces , the black being repelled .
It is the mystery attending this phenomenon that gives it its great importance .
There is evidently some action going on with which we are not at present acquainted ; and there is no saying what a thorough investigation into the cause of the phenomenon may lead to .
The Medal was received by Mr. Crookes .
A Boyal Medal has been awarded to Dr. Thomas Oldham , E.R.S. , for his long and important services in the Science of Geology , first while Professor of Geology in Trinity College , Dublin , and Director of the Geological Survey of Ireland , and chiefly for the great work which he has so long conducted as Superintendent of the Geological Survey of India , in which so much progress has been made that in a few years it will be possible to produce a Geological Map of India comparable to the Geological Map of England executed by the late Mr. Greenough ; also for a series of volumes of Geological Reports and Memoirs , including the ' Palaeon-tologica Indica , ' published under his direction .
Professor Oldham is the author of more than twenty Geological Memoirs and Reports , published in the Journal of the Geological Society of Dublin , that of the Geological Society of London , the Journal of the Asiatic So- 94 Anniversary Meeting .
[ Nov. 30 , ciety of Bengal , the G-ovemment Records of the Geological Society of India , and other serial publications .
Among other work , many years ago ( in 1843 ) he discovered the first known fossils in the Cambrian rocks of Bray head , to which , by the late Professor Edward Forbes , the generic name of Oldhamia was given , \#151 ; a discovery which in its day created the same kind of impression among geologists that the discovery of Eozoon produced when found by the late Sir William Logan in the Laurentian rocks of Canada .
He was also among the earliest of the workers on the G-eology of Ireland to show that above the ice-scratched rocks of the island marine shells were found in clays and gravels up to 600 feet above the level of the sea ; and arguing on this discovery , he produced two maps showing the state of Ireland as a group of islands when submerged to that depth , and also when submerged to a depth of 1000 feet , which he considered himself justified in believing to have been the case .
Some of his other memoirs give excellent accounts of the geology of large tracts of India , in one of which he showed that the Rajmahal Hills consist of great lava-flows of trappean rocks , proved to have been ejected as lavas by the'fact that the sandstones with which they are interbedded are always much altered by the trap that rests upon them , and unaltered when they lie upon the traps .
His memoirs on the Cretaceous rocks of parts of India also conveyed a great deal of new knowledge to European geologists ; and the manner in which he has directed the G-eological Survey of that great country , from the Himalaya to Cape Comorin ( still going on ) , deserves the gratitude of geologists in particular and of men of science in general .
The Medal was received by Professor Ramsay for Dr. Oldham .
The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers were then read , and Colonel Tounghusband and Dr. Hector having been , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators , the votes of the Fellows present were collected , and the following were declared duly elected as Council and Officers for the ensuing year:\#151 ; President.\#151 ; Joseph Dalton Hooker , C.B. , M.D. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Treasurer.\#151 ; " William Spottiswoode , M.A. , LL. D. a . .
f Prof. George Gabriel Stokes , M.A. , D.C.L. , LL. D. Secretary- | Prof_ Honry Hull6y\gt ; LL j , PhD .
Foreign Secretary.\#151 ; Prof. Alexander William Williamson , Ph. D. Other Members of the Council.\#151 ; Professor J. Couch Adams , LL. D. ; Major-General John T. Boileau ; Edward Viscount Cardwell , F.G-.S .
; Warren DeLaRue , D.C.L. ; Captain Frederick J. O. Evans , R.N. , C.B. ; Edward Frankland , D.C.L. ; Albert C. L. G- .
Gunther , M.A. , M.D. ; Professor T. Wharton Jones , F.R.C.S. ; Joseph Norman Lockyer , 1875 .
] Number of Fellows .
F.R.A.S. ; The Rev. Robert Main , M.A. ; Professor Daniel Oliver , P.L.S. ; Professor Edmund A. Parks , M.D. ; Right Hon. Lyon Playfair , C.B. , LL. D. ; William Pole , C.E. , Mus. Doc .
; The Rev. Bartholomew Price , M.A. ; Warington W. Smyth , M.A. The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators .
The following Table shows the progress and present state of the Society with respect to the number of Fellows :\#151 ; Patron and Royal .
Foreign .
Com- pounders .
\#163 ; 4 yearly .
Total .
November 30 , 1874 .
4 42 266 259 571 Elected + 9 + 5 + 15 + 29 Deceased - 3 - 15 - 15 - 33 Since compounded .
+ 1 \#151 ; 1 November 30 , 1875 .
4 48 257 258 567 Financial Statement .
[ Nov. 30 , oo S *8 r^ tH O CO U0 O \lt ; M t- so CO 0 rH ^o8^|S ( MH(M\lt ; Mh rH 2 0 8 CO I S I o fc\#187 ; III !
/ \#166 ; ----------N ^-------------------N ^ 05 05 ?
D OO O O h(MC5hOOOhhOiO ccOOHt^CiH^ ^iCCOOiiOHHiOCOC^O 7\#151 ; | r-H H rH rH rH r\#151 ; I rH r-H i\#151 ; I r\#151 ; I rH ^CiNWb-OW rH01O*0rHi0C0C\lt ; lC001C0 ^ ^ CO 00 CM 00 r* r-H rH Tfl rH ( M CO il:i 'r3 9 ?
\#163 ; \amp ; H \#174 ; \#171 ; a M- g -8 -g .-a -43 jrSAS .\#166 ; \#163 ; :cls-S^ s Oo 63 :lj\#171 ; \#163 ; f .
8 .silill iil^iESillii l-sflllSSS p lli-ipl sj Sill ^PHMWP Pp\#163 ; pI6\#163 ; 6Weh\#163 ; hh\#163 ; \#163 ; \#163 ; \#163 ; .\#166 ; S \amp ; \#166 ; S\gt ; fl ^ fl\lt ; ai 6^ 42 I \#163 ; 03 SW ^3*3 - gM S j^\#163 ; || *\amp ; I I ^OOONOOb-On ^OOOCOOhO^ NQ^^OOOQW toCiOh^HCO r-H rH \#163 ; 1 \amp ; f=\lt ; \#163 ; 1 i g 2 'SPh 2 S .53 5 .l| 1| :a OD S-t ( \gt ; % PJ 'SHS S |\#163 ; g 60S a 'gj ?
U|*S.S I S|i||'i|f OiO CO rH rH rH O rH CM rH CO i * w $75 .
] Financial Statement .
\#169 ; rH CO j I a CO* \#169 ; CO \#169 ; \#169 ; \#169 ; \lt ; M \#169 ; T* i\gt ; ( ^(N Jh CO \#169 ; \lt ; M Tt\lt ; \#169 ; 3i O N O CO O CO oo O \lt ; N \lt ; N CO O \#169 ; hhh r\#151 ; i **}\#169 ; co co .8 \#166 ; 8 a \#169 ; C3 \#169 ; -t ?
U S Ja ^ 8 SM -a-ai'l J IS 1 \#163 ; i , E3|w !
'E llift !
r^oocqooco n'ON^OJ t+i CO \#169 ; iO \#169 ; \lt ; N ^ CO CO 1\#151 ; I co n3 *73 i Sf h3 ^ 3 9 jj 83^1 g-Bjas lll'Sfr S ^ o ' \#171 ; Rtf \#163 ; \#169 ; ft YOL .
XXIY* o \#169 ; c3 o JS* ~S Ph H3 'i \#171 ; \#169 ; \#166 ; ^ O d 08 w fl \#166 ; 8 2 8 8 ij ''cS 08 n n H ft o o \#163 ; H O Ph CO csj CO .73 \lt ; 2 a \#171 ; a o eft eg -4-3 bJD O W Trust Funds .
1875 .
Trust F [ Nov. 30 , \#171 ; 3 ' 00 \#169 ; .^5 ^*oco O cO CO ''f ^.oo ( o'Or\gt ; ^ \#169 ; cS i"H lQ t\gt ; ^ 8 s li \lt ; S gg ^ \lt ; !
' .S\gt ; td ?
" 8 g " .8 o S dg *\#171 ; \#169 ; r-H CO o .
u tjj { 25^ of co JK .4 \#166 ; 2 * Ph CO 1 1 d5 g \gt ; V"c5 ww sr 00 2 S $ g t\gt ; *r3 ww r^OCD CO \#171 ; 0-'* J2 CQ CO ^ GO so COO CO rH GO TJ 8 g S ^ 13 .\#163 ; PQ P o qq .3 S O HP Rumford Fm \#163 ; 2322 19s .
Coi [ 875 .
] Trust , b- ^ . ?
OOb\#187 ; 1\#151 ; 1 \lt ; o \#169 ; 2 2 95 00 O H i\#151 ; 1 rH iO w 2 ** S\#163 ; 00 3 f CfJ Tfl tH O [ \#166 ; \#166 ; ; s : 4 ' 1 \#169 ; 13 \#174 ; A % w w OQ 2 | s I \#163 ; r3 \lt ; 2m I .
00 rg o S3 S* \#163 ; 3 hi TjH 00 ."d S rs '\gt ; ft *\amp ; ?
H jft co of S :e \#163 ; O \#169 ; P-i p-t !
^ \lt ; M is CD 'u \#169 ; \lt ; D CD 8*3 2 S flj WWW \#163 ; uo co -\#163 ; 3 'S* o w bo .s ^3 S PR -\#163 ; \#187 ; s a s ?
t\#187 ; \#187 ; ft ^ o o O to n S giS GO I o EH 13 * .
\#171 ; .S 3j I rH 1 s .*\lt ; \#174 ; O - 2 ; c J \lt ; \#163 ; \#171 ; \#171 ; \#174 ; 0 iO S ^ **'2 23 $5 r*H $ 1 | ^S2 \#169 ; \#171 ; *8 O co o \#163 ; oT S3 CD nd .5 ft Trust Funds .
[ Nov. 30 , ^ eo *\#187 ; fc .
I S O \lt ; x\gt ; Hi -s co * s ^ \lt ; M \lt ; D 5 ?
I .a o a cd P .s 1-1 1* \#163 ; S\gt ; OS pd o cd \lt ; D o * H * o m e ?
*3 P3 ^ 1 g \#163 ; ^ s ?
\#187 ; *\#187 ; Q , .S \#171 ; \#163 ; s pq \lt ; x\gt ; ^ I 3 1 \#166 ; s a 1^ \lt ; N CO o$ ^ tH \#171 ; \#171 ; SS5 O m d 'TJ -3 g ' E-i ft tH co'CiO O* rH 00 CO ft GO n3 .s ' *c M d iS a a o O \#163 ; \lt ; D M !
S ph S t\gt ; \gt ; iS WPQ M 'e \#169 ; -+-H I-1 ojO\#174 ; | \#166 ; \#187 ; S !
\#171 ; 3 * O 05 d ^ cd rt 'm \#169 ; Sp 875 .
] Appropriation of the Government Grant .
Lccount of the appropriation of the sum of \#163 ; 1000 annually voted by Parliament to the Royal Society ( the Government Grant ) , to be employed in aiding the advancement of Science ( continued from Yol .
XXIII .
p. 80 ) .
1875 .
1 .
Mr. C. R. A. Wright , for continuation of Researches on the Opium Alkaloids ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... \#163 ; 50 2 .
Mr. G. J. Romanes , for an Experimental Inquiry into the Facts of Heredity , as exhibited by Plants and by Animals ... ... 30 3 .
Messrs. Dewar and M'Kendrick , for an Investigation of the Physiological Action of Eight , and of the Chinoline and Pyridine Bases ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
150 4 .
Prof. W. 0 .
Williamson , for Researches on the Organization of the Eossil Plants of the Coal-measures ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 30 5 .
Prof. Church , for aid in continuing and extending Investigations into the Colouring-matter Turacin ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
50 6 .
Prof. G. C. Poster , for Apparatus and Experiments to establish a practical method of measuring the Electrical Resistance of any conductor in absolute electromagnetic measure ... ... ... ... .
100 7 .
Mr. H. T. Stainton , for aid in publishing the 'Zoological Record ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 100 8 .
Dr. Bigsby , for aid in publishing a ' Thesaurus DevonicoCarboniferas ' ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
150 9 .
Dr. Maxwell Simpson , for continuation of Researches on the Synthesis of Organic Compounds ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 50 10 .
Prof. Roscoe and Prof. Balfour Stewart , for the obtaining of Drawings to scale of a definite Portion of the Solar Spectrum ... .
100 11 .
G. P. Rod well , for investigating the change of volume by Heat of Bromide and Chloride of Silver , and of certain Paraffines .
60 12 .
Prof. Duncan , for investigation of the Histology of the Actinidae , and of the Genus Primnoci ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
25 13 .
J. N. Lockyer , for continuation of Spectroscopic Researches .
200 14 .
Prof. W. 1ST .
Hartley , for continuation of Researches on the Photographic Spectra of Substances ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
50 15 .
Prof. W. K. Parker , for aid , in publication by the Linnean Society , of Drawings illustrative of Researches on the Development of the Skull in the Vertebrata ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
100 16 .
Mr. J. M. Thomson , for Experiments on the Absorption of Gases by Charcoal at high Pressures ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 25 17 .
Mr. P. A. Mahomed , for Researches on Arterial Tension . .
25 18 .
Sir W. Thomson , for Reduction of Tidal Observations ... .
100 \#163 ; 1395 102 Report of the Kew Committee .
Dr. Cm s. d. \#163 ; s. d. To balance on hand , By Appropriations as Nov. 30 , 1874 ... .
1157 19 7 above 1395 0 0 To Grant from Trea- Printing and Postal sury ( 1875 ) ... . . .
1000 0 0 charges 4 5 0 Repayment:\#151 ; Balance on hand , Nov. E. Galton 25 0 0 30,1875 .
797 7.4 Interest 13 12 9 .\#163 ; 2196 12 4 \#163 ; 2196 12 4 Account of Grants from the Donation Fund in 1874-75 .
Prof. Rupert Jones , to enable him to prepare illustrations of Ms investigations on Fossil Entomostraca . . .
Mr. H. Willett , in aid of the Sub-Wealden Exploration Fund ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
Dr. Carpenter , for payment of Assistant-Naturalist in the Cruise of the'Valorous'and for apparatus . . .
120 0 0 \lt ; \#163 ; 195 0 0 Report of the Kew Committee for the Year ending October 31 , 1875 .
Magnetic Work.\#151 ; The year has been marked by the recommencement of regular work with the Magnetographs , wMch had been taken down for examination and repair by Mr. Adie , as described in the last Report .
The scale-values having been redetermined , the instruments were set in action on the 1st of January , 1875 , and therewith the second series of continuous photograpMc records of magnetic phenomena was inaugurated .
The montMy observations with the absolute instruments have been continued , as usual , by Mr. G. M. Whipple , who also takes charge of the general magnetic work , in which he has had the assistance of Mr. Cullum and E. Eigg .
The two Sergeants of the Poyal Artillery , ormerly in .
Sir E. Sabine s office at V7oolwich , have been in regular attendance at Kew throughout the year .
The principal constants employed in the computations for the Tables .

