94 Prof. A. Maoalister on the Myology of Cheiroptera .
[ Jan. 11 , II .
" The Myology of the Cheiroptera .
" By A. Macalister , A.B. , M.B.T.CJD .
, Professor of Zoology/ University of Dublin .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey , Sec. R.S. Received October 19,1871 , ( Abstract .
) This paper is a record of the structural details of nineteen species of Bats , and for purposes of comparison the author has appended a description of the muscles of the Plying Squirrel ( Pteromys ) and of the Flying Lemur ( Galeopithecus ) .
The species of Bats examined were the following .
Pteropus edulis , medius , Edwardsii , minimus , Cephalotes Pallasii , Cynonycteris amplexicaudalis , Eleutherura marginata , tophus ferrum-equinum , speoris , and diadema , Megaderma lyra , Artibeus jamaicensis , Vampyrops vittatus , Vespmurinus , Vesperugo pipis* trellus , Synotus barbastellus , Plecotus , Noctulina altivolans , and Scotophilus hesperus .
As the habits of the Bats are singularly different from those of the other mammals , the study of their myology becomes a matter of great interest ; the special features displayed by their muscles are very numerous , but the principal of these may be tabulated as follows\#151 ; 1st .
The singularly modified occipital trapezius .
2nd .
The enormously developed and subdivided great pectoral .
3rd .
The digastric being intersected by a linear inscription , forming a connecting link between the mammals with a single-bellied depressor of the mandible and those with a biventral muscle .
4th .
The separate and displaced scapular deltoid .
5th .
The palmaris longus acting as a superficial flexor .
6th .
The displacements of the lower-extremity muscles consequent on the rotation of the lower limbs backward\#151 ; such as the everted iliacus , the diminished glutei , and the weakness of the extensors of the knee .
7th .
The increased size of the gracilis .
8th .
The absence in general of the sartorius , tensor vaginae femoris , biceps , plantaris , popliteus , and soleus .
It is interesting , in connexion with this last peculiarity , to notice the occurrence of a rudimental sartorius in one species and of a rudimental popliteus in another .
The cutaneous muscles are of very great interest , and this is increased by the comparison with those of the other flying mammals .
The author regards it as a point of very great importance that he has been able to apply the test of nerve-supply in the identification of some disputed muscles .
Thus he has shown that the upper part at least of the occipito-pollicalis is of the nature of the trapezius , although its continuation is a cutaneous muscle ; and this is interesting , as in the other flying mammals the entire of this muscle is-cutaneous and springs from 1872 .
] On the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
95 the upper part of the platysma : he has also been able to show that the abdominal pectoral is not part of the pectoralis minor .
By dissecting a large number of species , the author has been able to correct a number of errors in the hitherto-published records of the myology of the Cheiroptera\#151 ; such as the origin of the fourth pectoral , the insertion of the latissimus dorsi , the arrangement of the forearm-muscles , \amp ; c. Although the general plan of the muscular system is the same in all the species , yet there are very many suggestive varieties ; and from a comparison of their muscles , it would seem that each of the four great groups of Bats is characterized by a slightly different arrangement of muscles .
The author has , for purposes of brevity , carefully abstained from adding any thing of theoretical deduction to this paper , which he has endeavoured to confine to a simple statement of anatomical facts .
III .
" Notice of further Researches on the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures.^ By Dr. W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. , in a Letter to Dr. Sharpey , Sec. R.S. Received November 17,1871 .
Owens College , Manchester , Nor .
16 , 1871 .
My dear Dr. Sharpey , \#151 ; Since I read my last communication to the Boyal Society on the organization of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures I have done a large amount of work , having cut between two and three hundred new sections and with most satisfactory results .
I have obtained a series of specimens almost completing the life-history of one plant from Burntisland , beginning with the tips of the smallest twigs and ending with the large stems .
The former are mere aggregations of parenchyma with a central bundle of barred vessels mixed with a small amount of primitive cell-tissue .
As the twig grew the leaves assumed definite form , and the central vascular bundle opened out at its central part , so as to form a cylinder , the interior of which was occupied by parenchyma .
This cylinder grew rapidly , the number of its vessels steadily increasing ; but they were all equally arranged as in , what I have termed , the medullary vascular cylinder , i. e. not in radiating series .
We thus obtain the origin of that remarkable cylinder , and see that it is the expanded homologue of the central vascular bundles of the living Lycopods .
Whilst these processes were in progress the cortical portion became differentiated into layers , and the parenchymatous cells of the pith continued to multiply , so as to occupy the expanding interior of the vascular cylinder .
After attaining a certain size , through the above processes , a new element of growth appeared ; an exogenous addition was made to the exterior of the cylinder , also consisting of barred vessels , but these are arranged in the radiating series described in my last memoir .
This series continued to grow until it attained to considerable dimensions ; but the entire vascular system always remains small , compared with the diameter of the stem , the chief bulk of which consists of

