108 Propagation of Magnetisation of Iron .
[ May 31 , V. " Propagation of Magnetisation of Iron as affected by the Electric Currents in the Iron .
" By J. Hopkinson , F.R.S. , and E. Wilson .
Received May 17 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) Consider a solid , cylindrical electromagnet , it is well known that , in reversing the magnetising current , the induction does not instantly reverse , but a certain time elapses before it again attains its full value , that it reverses at a later time at the centre of the core than near its surface , and that the delay in reversal near the centre is due to the electric currents induced in the iron .
The object of the present paper is to investigate these effects .
The magnet experimented upon had a diameter of 4 inches , and formed a closed magnetic circuit .
Through a part of its length the cylinder of 4 inches diameter was formed of an iron core surrounded by two concentric , closely fitting tubes .
Exploring coils of fine copper wire were bedded in the iron between the surfaces of the tubes .
The currents induced in these exploring coils were observed when the current in the main coil of the magnet was reversed .
These currents in some cases last for over half a minute .
Inferences can be drawn from these results as to the behaviour of other diameters than 4 inches .
Comparing two cylinders of different diameters , similar events occur , but at times proportional to the squares of the diameters of the cylinders .
From this consideration and the experiments , a judgment is formed as to the effects of local currents in the cores of transformers and of the armatures of dynamo machines .
VI .
" On Rapid Variations of Atmospheric Temperature , especially during Fokn , and the Methods of observing them .
' ' By J. Y. Buchanan , F.R.S. Received May 29 , 1894 .
The variation of the temperature of the air in the course of a day is a matter of familiar observation .
It depends in the first instance on the relative positions of the locality and the sun .
The temperature is generally highest a short time after the sun has attained its greatest altidude above the horizon , and it is lowest some time after it has attained its greatest depression below the horizon .
Observations made at regular intervals over the twenty-four hours show a more or less regular rise of temperature during the early part of the day and a similar fall of temperature during the latter part of the day and the evening .
When the interval between the observations is

