416 On the Factors Concerned Agglutination .
By H. R. Dean , M.A. , M.B. , Ch. B. , M.R.C.P. , Assistant Bacteriologist , Lister Institute , London .
( Communicated by Dr. C. J. Martin , F.R.S. Received October 13 , \#151 ; Read December 7 , 1911 .
) Of the various reactions which can be observed to take place between antigen and antibody , agglutination has usually been looked upon as relatively simple .
It has been assumed that the clumping of bacteria or red cells is produced by the action of substances known as agglutinins .
According to the well-known views of Ehrlich , an agglutinin is possessed of two groups , a cytophile or haptophore group which fixes on to the cell , and a group which has the property of producing agglutination .
According to another view the cell or bacterium combines with its specific antibody , and the combination of cell and antibody is then clumped by the action of electrolytes .
A broad distinction has , however , always been drawn between such phenomena as precipitation and agglutination , which appear to represent a comparatively simple reaction between antigen and antibody , and those more complex effects such as haemolysis and bacteriolysis in which another constituent of serum , the alexine or complement , is necessary to complete the specific action of the antibody .
Observations published by Muir and Browning ( 1906 ) suggested , however , that in some instances , at any rate , the mechanism of agglutination may be more complex .
It was found that fresh ox serum powerfully agglutinated a suspension of ox corpuscles in the presence of antiserum obtained from a rabbit which had been injected with ox corpuscles .
The fresh serum could augment to a very marked degree the agglutinative properties of the homologous antiserum .
This agglutination of red cells by immune body and complement took place rapidly at 37 ' C. , and somewhat more slowly at room temperature ; at 0 ' C. the agglutination was imperfect .
In another experiment , howTever , complete agglutination was obtained at 0 ' C. by mixing the red corpuscles of a guinea-pig , the homologous antiserum derived from a rabbit , and fresh ox serum .
The property possessed by ox serum of furthering agglutination was destroyed by heating the serum for an hour at 55 ' C. In the same year Bordet and Gay ( 1906 ) gave an account of a series of very similar experiments .
Bordet and Gay independently discovered the agglutinative property of ox serum for sensitised red cells .
Ihey found , On the Factors Concerned in Agglutination .
417 moreover , that , although this agglutinative property was lost by heating the ox serum at 56 ' C. , it could be restored by adding a little of the fresh serum ( complement ) of another animal .
They concluded that there exists in ox serum a special substance which resists a temperature of 56 ' C. , and which may be preserved for many months in the heated serum .
This substance , which was presumably of an albuminous or colloidal nature , showed no tendency to unite with normal corpuscles , but was precipitated on the corpuscles charged with the substance sensibilisatrice and alexine .
They called this substance Colloide du beeuf .
This form of agglutination , which has received the name of conglutination , is attributed by Bordet to the action of three factors on the red corpuscles , namely : ( 1 ) the specific antiserum , ( 2 ) the ox colloid , ( 3 ) a fresh serum or alexine .
The heat-resisting substance present in ox serum is called in subsequent papers conglutinin .
Bordet and Streng ( 1909 ) published a series of experiments dealing with the agglutinative properties of ox serum .
They declared that the conglutinins were essentially different from the agglutinins .
As a point of difference they stated that the conglutinins had no need to be fixed on the cells which they conglutinated .
This statement appears to be at variance with the previously-quoted observation that the specific substance of the ox colloid is precipitated on corpuscles duly laden with substance sensibilisatrice and alexine .
Bordet and Streng also subjected ox serum after it had been heated to 56 ' C. to dialysis .
They found that the fraction which remained in solution favoured haemolysis , while the precipitate , if re-dissolved in normal saline , favoured agglutination .
In another communication Streng ( 1909 ) claims considerable success for the conglutination method in the identification and differentiation of bacteria .
By the addition of ox serum and complement he obtained marked agglutination of bacteria with a dilution of homologous antiserum , which by itself was too weak to produce any trace of agglutination .
Streng also stated that conglutinin could be separated from agglutinin by dialysis .
Idle agglutinin , under these conditions , remained in solution , while the conglutinin was precipitated with the globulin fraction .
Barikine ( 1910 ) effected a similar separation of agglutinin and conglutinin by saturating ox serum with carbon dioxide .
As in the dialysis experiment , the conglutinin was precipitated with the globulin , and the agglutinin remained in solution .
Barikine also found that the fiocculi of a specific precipitate , formed by the union of antigen and antibody , could be conglutinated by the addition of fresh serum ( complement ) and heated ox serum ( conglutinin ) .
Mr. H. R. Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , Bordet and Gengou ( 1911 ) published a paper dealing with a phenomenon which they have named co-agglutination , and which they have expressly stated is to be clearly distinguished from conglutination .
They found that a mixture of antigen and antibody is able to produce a very marked agglutina- ' tion of the red cells of a third animal , the guinea-pig .
The conditions under which this co-agglutination occurs are carefully set forth by the authors .
Guinea-pig blood was found to be the only sort of blood which gave satisfactory results .
Defibrinated guinea-pig blood was , as a rule , employed , but equally satisfactory results could be obtained by the use of a suspension of washed corpuscles .
Both the serum which contained the antigen and the serum which contained the antibody were heated to 56 ' C. before use .
The co-agglutination was obtained with all the antigen-antibody systems used by the authors .
As the co-agglutination was obtained by the use of heated sera and washed guinea-pig corpuscles , the participation of complement could be excluded .
Co-agglutination only occurred if a considerable excess of antigen relative to antibody was present in the mixture .
The proportions most favourable to co-agglutination were such that the antigen was present in such excess as to inhibit the formation of a precipitate .
When the proportions were such that a marked precipitate formed , co-agglutination did not occur .
The co-agglutination was not accompanied by any marked fixation of complement .
It was necessary that the guinea-pig corpuscles should be present at the time when the antigen came into contact with the antibody .
To produce this result the corpuscles were mixed with the antigen and the antibody was then added .
Under the proper conditions the agglutination of the red corpuscles was not only very marked but very persistent , that is to say , the corpuscles could be shaken up an indefinite number of times and invariably re-agglutinated .
It would thus appear that the clumping or agglutination of red cells may take place under three different sets of conditions :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Agglutination.\#151 ; By this is meant the well-known clumping of red cells by a specific antiserum or by a normal serum which possesses agglutinins for the red cells employed .
( 2 ) Conglutination.\#151 ; This is produced by the action of ox colloid ( con-glutinin ) on cells which have been treated with homologous antiserum and with complement .
In place of a serum prepared by the injection of an animal with red cells , a normal serum which contains a normal agglutinin for the red cells can , however , be employed .
( 3 ) Co-agglutination.\#151 ; An antigen and homologous antibody can undei appropriate conditions agglutinate the red cells of another animal ( preferably a guinea-pig ) .
1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned Agglutination .
As regards conglutination and agglutination it appears that the action of ox colloid and complement is to intensify the effect of an agglutinin present in a normal or an immune serum , such action being of the nature of complementing .
It is necessary for conglutination that the cells should be sensitised .
Muir and Browning , in fact , expressed the view that the ox serum acted as a complement to the immune serum .
The interaction of the various factors in agglutination and conglutination finds to some extent a parallel in phagocytosis , in which the action of a heated serum is intensified by the addition of complement .
General Object of the Experiments .
The experiments here recorded were undertaken as the result of a chance observation .
A number of experiments had been made with the view of ascertaining the relative quantities of the two fractions of complement necessary for the production of haemolysis .
In such an experiment it is , of course , essential to put up control tubes which contain the various dilutions of the middle-piece and of the end-piece in order to make certain that neither fraction acting by itself can produce haemolysis .
It was noticed that the corpuscles in the middle-piece control tubes presented a remarkable appearance .
Instead of settling down to form a small mass at the very bottom of the tube , the corpuscles were found to be arranged in a thin layer which coated the bottom end and lower part of the tube .
The layer of corpuscles took the shape of the lower part of the tube and produced the appearance of a small cup .
If the tube was sharply shaken it could be seen that the corpuscles had been agglutinated .
The control tube which contained corpuscles and immune body without the middle-piece solution showed no agglutination .
The agglutination had been produced by the joint action of the inactivated haemolytic serum and middle-piece solution .
Method of Preparation of Experimental Material .
Preparation of Complement Fractions\#151 ; In the experiments which are to be described the complement fractions have been obtained by the carbon dioxide method of Liefmann ( 1909 ) .
Fresh guinea-pig serum is diluted with distilled water in the proportion of one part of serum to nine parts of distilled water .
The mixture should be kept cold in an ice bath , and it is an advantage to prepare the mixture with ice-cold distilled water .
The mixture is saturated with carbon dioxide and then allowed to stand for one hour in the cold room .
The carbon dioxide produces a marked turbidity in the mixture , and at the end of the hour 's Mr. H. R. Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , standing small flocculi are apparent .
The precipitate is brought down with a centrifuge and resuspended in ice-cold distilled water .
This process of washing the precipitate is repeated , and the precipitate is then dissolved in cold 0'85 per cent , sodium choride solution .
The experiments were performed during the summer months , and it was found that , unless care was taken to keep the original mixture and the suspension of precipitate as cold as possible , it was very difficult to redissolve the precipitate in the saline solution .
The saline solution was used in such quantity that the resulting middle-piece solution corresponded to a 1 in 10 dilution of fresh , guinea-pig serum .
The supernatant fluid from which the precipitate had been removed was , as a rule , quite clear , but was generally filtered through filter paper to remove any trace of suspended particles .
Sufficient sodium chloride was then added to make it equal to a 0'85 per cent , sodium chloride solution .
The resulting solution which contained the end-piece fraction corresponded to a 1 in 10 dilution of the fresh guinea-pig serum .
Preparation of Other Materials\#151 ; The red corpuscles were obtained from the sheep .
The blood was defibrinated with glass beads .
The corpuscles were freed from serum by three washings with normal saline solution .
The haemolytic serum was obtained from a rabbit which had had three intravenous injections of washed sheep corpuscles .
The serum was inactivated by heating for half an hour at 56 ' C. The bacterial emulsions were prepared by emulsifying in normal saline a 24-hours agar culture of B. typhosus .
The antityphoid serum was obtained from rabbits which had been immunised by intravenous injections of saline emulsions of B. typhosus ( killed by heating for one hour at 60 ' C. ) .
The antityphoid serum was inactivated by heating for half an hour at 56 ' C. Detailed Description of Experiments and Influence of the Middle-Piece on Agglutination\#151 ; An haemolytic serum , produced by injecting a rabbit with the crashed red corpuscles of a sheep , possesses , in addition to its haemolytic properties , considerable power of producing agglutination .
Agglutination of the red cells is , however , evident only if a rather large amount of antiserum be present in the mixture .
In the case of the serum with which these experiments was performed it was necessary to employ the serum in a strength of at least 1 in 100 to obtain any marked degree of agglutination within a period of one hour .
If the serum was employed in a dilution of 1 in 200 agglutination could not be detected .
It may be mentioned that the haemolytic title of this serum was about 1 in 1000 .
If to a mixture of one volume of a 1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned .
1 in 20 suspension of red cells , with one volume of a 1 in 200 dilution of heated antiserum , was added one volume of 1 in 10 middle-piece solution , , an almost instantaneous and very marked agglutination of the red cells took place .
On slanting the tube the red cells could be seen to be aggregated in large clumps .
The clumps rapidly increased in size , and after 20 minutes to half an hour had settled to the bottom of the tube to form a single mass which somewhat resembled a soft clot .
The supernatant fluid was left quite clear .
The viscous mass which formed at the bottom of the tube could be disintegrated by vigorous shaking , but rapidly re-formed , and the process of shaking the clump apart and allowing it to re-form could be repeated indefinitely .
One series of tubes was preserved for 48 hours without any change in the condition of the corpuscles .
The appearances presented corresponded closely to the description recently given by Bordet and Gengou ( 1911 ) of the phenomenon which they called co-agglutination .
It must be plainly stated that the action of the solution of middle-piece is to accentuate the feebly agglutinative action of a small amount of specific antiserum .
An agglutination quite as marked and apparently identical in nature could be produced by using a larger quantity of the antiserum without the addition of middle-piece .
The action of middle-piece appeared Table I. 1 c.c. of dilution of haemolytic serum , Rabbit v. Sheep , 4- 1 c.c. middle-piece solution diluted .
4- 1 c.c. normal saline .
j 1\#151 ; 10 .
I\#151 ; ' 1 o 1\#151 ; 40 .
M k 1\#151 ; 160 .
1 1\#151 ; 10 4- 4- + 4* 4- 4- 4- 4- + + + + + 4- + + 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 442 1\#151 ; 20 4- + 4- + + + + + + + + + 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4 .
4 .
4 .
4_ 3 1\#151 ; 40 4- 4- 4- 4- + + 4- + + 4- 4- + 4 " 4 " 4 " 4 " 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 444 1\#151 ; 80 4- 4- 4- 4- + 4- 4- + 4- 4- 4- 4- 4-4-4- 4-4-4- 4- 4- 5 1\#151 ; 160 4- 4- 4- 4- + 4- + 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 4-4-4- 446 1\#151 ; 320 4- + 4- 4- + 4- + 4- 4- 4- 4- 4- 0 O 7 1\#151 ; 640 4- 4- + 4- + + 0 0 0 8 1\#151 ; 1280 + 4- 4- + 0 0 0 0 9 1 c.c. normal saline 0 0 0 0 0 0 Each tube contained a volume of 3 c.c. made up of 1 c.c. of a 1 in 20 suspension of washed red cells of the sheep , 1 c.c. of a dilution of heated ha ; molytic serum ( rabbit and sheep ) , and 1 c.c. of the diluted middle-piece solution .
The tubes numbered 9 , in each row , contained no immune serum and the bulk was made up to 3 c.c. by the addition of 1 c.c. of normal saline solution .
In these tubes no agglutination occurred , the middle-piece solution by itself being unable to agglutinate the red cells .
The tubes in the last column contained 1 c.c. of the suspension of red cells , 1 c.c. of a dilution of the hsemolytic serum and 1 c.c. of normal saline solution .
The agglutinative power of the immune body acting by itself is shown in this column .
In the remaining columns is shown the effect of the combined action of the immune body and the middle-piece solution .
Mr. H. B. Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , to be to enormously increase the action of a dilution of antiserum , which if acting by itself would have produced a hardly perceptible degree of agglutination .
The solution of middle-piece was shown by repeated experiments to have no agglutinative action on the red corpuscles in the absence of the antiserum .
It is evident from Table I that a very marked degree of agglutination may be produced by the interaction of three components\#151 ; the red cells , the heated homologous antiserum , and the solution of middle-piece .
Remarks on Table I. t From a consideration of Table I it appears probable that for the agglutination of the red cells two substances are necessary , the one being the specific antibody to the red cells and the other a non-specific substance .
Both of these substances are thermostable , and are present in inactivated haemolytic serum .
The larger quantities of the antiserum contained , in addition to the specific antibody , a sufficient quantity of the non-specific substance to produce agglutination of the red cells .
If a smaller quantity of the antiserum was used , the amount of non-specific substance was insufficient .
In such cases the necessary substance could be supplied by the addition of the solution of middle-piece .
An effect of this type is illustrated in Table II .
In this experiment an amount of antiserum was employed which , acting by itself , was unable to agglutinate the quantity of red cells present .
Such a quantity of antiserum was found to be 1 c.c. of a 1 in 200 dilution .
Table IL ] .
c.c. of dilutions of middle-piece solution .
1 c.c. of 1\#151 ; 200 dilution of antiserum .
1 c.c. of 1\#151 ; 20 suspension washed red cells .
1 1\#151 ; 10 1\#151 ; 200 1\#151 ; 20 4- + 4- + 2 1\#151 ; 20 } ) i ) 4- + + + 3 1\#151 ; 40 J ) " 4- 4- + 4- 4 1\#151 ; 80 } } \gt ; \gt ; 4* 4- + + 5 1\#151 ; 160 \gt ; J } } 4* 4- 4- 6 1\#151 ; 10 1 c.c. normal saline 0 7 1 c.c. normal saline 1 c.c. 1\#151 ; 200 i ) 0 Neither the antiserum alone , in a 1 in 200 dilution , nor the solution of middle-piece was able by itself to agglutinate the red cells .
The two factois in combination produced a very marked degree of agglutination .
On the Factors Concerned Agglutination .
Experiment to Shoio that the Agglutinative Properties of the Middle-Piece Solution are Thermostable .
The explanation offered in the preceding paragraph assumes that the agglutinating power of an immune serum depends on the presence of two thermostable substances , namely , the specific antibody and a non-specific substance .
It is suggested that a deficiency of the non-specific substance in a greatly diluted antiserum may be made good by the addition of middle-piece solution .
Before this explanation can be accepted it is necessary to show that this substance or property of the solution of middle-piece is thermostable , that is to say , capable of resisting a temperature of 56 ' C. for half an hour .
The result of an experiment intended to settle this point is given in Table III .
Table III .
Dilutions of the middle-piece solution .
Fresh solution .
Middle-piece solution previously heated at 56 ' C. i hour .
1 hour .
i 2 hours .
4 hours .
1 1\#151 ; 10 4 + + 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 + 4 4 4 4 + + + 2 1\#151 ; 20 4 4 + 4 4 + 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 + + 4 + 3 1\#151 ; 40 4 4 + 4 + + + + 4 4 4 4 + 4 4 + + 4 1\#151 ; 80 + + + 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 + 4 4 + + 5 1\#151 ; 160 4 + + + 4 4 + 4 Quantities of 5 c.c. of the middle-piece solution were heated at 56 ' 0 .
for 1 , 2 , and 4 hours .
Parallel dilutions of each sample were then made , and of the original unheated solution .
To each tube , which contained 1 c.c. of diluted middle-piece solution , was added 1 c.c. of sheep cells 1 in 20 , and 1 c.c. of a 1 in 200 dilution of haemolytic serum .
Control tubes were put up which showed that neither a 1 in 200 dilution of haemolytic serum nor a 1 in 10 dilution of middle-piece was capable , when acting by itself , of agglutinating the red cells .
Remarks on Tables and IV .
From this and similar experiments , it was determined that the capacity of the solution of middle-piece to aid in agglutination was only very gradually destroyed at a temperature of 56 ' C. ; heating for half-an-hour had a very slight , or no effect at all , in reducing its activity .
This property of aiding in agglutination can be classed as one of the relatively thermostable properties of serum .
It is equally evident that this property of the solution of middle-piece has no connection with its haemolytic property , for the latter is rapidly lost by subjecting such a solution to a temperature of 56 ' C. The middle-piece fraction of the haemolytic complement is definitely thermolabile .
On the other hand , whole guinea-pig Mr. H. R. Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , serum , which had been inactivated in the ordinary way by heating it for half-an-hour at 56 ' C. , was found to possess to a marked degree the property of increasing agglutination .
As far as agglutination was concerned , the heated whole guinea-pig serum appeared to possess the same properties as the saline solution of middle-piece .
Table IV.\#151 ; Comparison of Heated Whole Serum with the Middle-Piece Traction .
The fresh guinea-pig serum was previously heated for half an hour at a temperature of 56 ' C. Dilutions .
Heated whole serum .
Middle-piece solution .
1 1\#151 ; 10 + + + + + + + + 2 1\#151 ; 20 + + + + + + + + 3 1\#151 ; 40 + + + + + 4- + + 4 1\#151 ; 80 + + + + + + + 5 1\#151 ; 160 + + + + The two sets of dilutions were comparable , that is to say , the 1 in 10 dilution of middle-piece solution corresponded to the amount of middle-piece in a 1 in 10 dilution of whole serum .
To every tube was added a suspension of red cells and the diluted immune serum .
It was shown by appropriate controls that neither this dilution of immune serum , 1 in 200 , nor the heated whole serum , nor the middle-piece solution , in the dilutions employed , had the power of agglutinating the red cells .
Influence of th End-Piece .
Only a few experiments were carried out with a view to ascertaining the influence of the end-piece fraction of the complement .
In one case the solution of end-piece had no influence on agglutination , acting either alone or in conjunction with the middle-piece solution .
Another end-piece solution had a slight influence in a dilution of 1 in 10 in increasing the agglutination of the red cells by an antiserum .
When further diluted it had no action .
The same solution of end-piece somewhat increased the agglutination produced by the interaction of antibody and middle-piece .
It should be added that neither solution of end-piece had in the dilutions employed the slightest agglutinative action on the red cells in the absence of the specific immune body .
The discrepancy between the two solutions probably depended on slight differences in the method of separation .
In any case , the substance which aids in agglutination appears to be contained chiefly in the fraction of the globulin which is precipitated by carbon dioxide .
The agglutinating substance is present in whole normal serum , but its agglutinative property can be conveniently studied in a middle-piece solution , since the progress of agglutination is not interrupted 1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned in Agglutination .
by the lysis of the red cells .
For this reason a middle-piece solution prepared from fresh guinea-pig serum was used in the majority of the experiments .
Addition of Middle-Piece to Sensitised Cells .
The action of the solution of middle-piece can be demonstrated in a very striking manner by adding middle-piece solution to corpuscles previously sensitised with the homologous antiserum .
One cubic centimetre of a 1 in 20 suspension of sheep red cells was added to 1 c.c. of a 1 in 200 dilution of antiserum .
The mixture was allowed to stand for half-an-hour at room temperature .
At the end of this time there was no evidence of agglutination .
There was then added 1 c.c. of a 1 in 10 solution of middle-piece .
The red cells immediately ran together into large clumps and rapidly settled to the bottom of the tube .
This experiment showed that the middle-piece solution could exert its action on already sensitised red cells , and that it was not essential that the middle-piece should be present from the time of the first admixture of antigen and antibody .
The sensitised red cells can , in fact , if freed by repeated washings from every trace of uncombined antibody , be still agglutinated by the addition of middle-piece solution .
Previously sensitised red cells are , in fact , agglutinated with great rapidity , for time is not taken up by the union of the red cells with the antibody .
Influence of Temperature on the No strictly comparative experiments have as yet been undertaken with a view to ascertaining the influence of temperature on the agglutination of red cells by immune body and middle-piece solution .
The majority of experiments were carried out at room temperature , but the agglutination was somewhat accelerated by placing the tubes in an incubator at 37 ' C. On the other hand , it was ascertained that a very marked degree of agglutination was reached when the tubes were placed in the cold room at a temperature of a few degrees above 0 ' C. The middle-piece solution is certainly able to agglutinate sensitised corpuscles in the cold , and the delay in agglutination is sufficiently explained by the longer time required at a low temperature for the union of the red cells with antibody .
Agglutination of Bacteria .
A considerable number of experiments were made with the object of reproducing with bacterial emulsions the results obtained by the use of blood corpuscles .
In these experiments an inactivated antityphoid serum derived from a rabbit and an emulsion in normal saline of a 24-hours ' agar Mr. H. R. Dean .
[ Oct , 13 , culture of B. typhosus were used .
Such an experiment is represented in Table Y. Table V. 0 *5 c.c. of inactivated diluted antityphoid serum .
A. + 1 c.c. normal saline .
B. + 0 *5 c.c. middle-piece 1\#151 ; 10 , and 0 *5 c.c. normal saline .
c. + 0 '5 c.c. middle-piece 1\#151 ; 10 , and 0 *5 c.c. end-piece 1\#151 ; 10 .
1 1 in 4000 + + + + + + + + 2 1 in 5000 + + + + + + + 3 1 in 6000 0 + + + + 4 1 in 7000 0 + + + + 5 1 in 8000 0 + + 6 1 in 9000 0 0 0 Controls 7 0'5 c.c. normal saline 0 0 0 Every tube contained 2 c.c. In the control tubes the bulk was made up to 2 c.c. with normal saline .
Tube 7 contained in column A 0 5 c.c. of bacillary emulsion and 1*5 c.c. of saline ; in row B emulsion and middle-piece ; in row C emulsion and middle-piece and end-piece .
In these controls no agglutination was observed .
In row A the agglutinative power of the immune serum is recorded .
No agglutination was observed below tube 2 .
It will be seen that this tube contained 0*5 c.c. of emulsion of bacteria , 0*5 c.c. of a 1 in 5000 dilution of antityphoid serum , and 1 c.c. of normal saline solution .
The ultimate dilution of the immune serum was in consequence 1 in 20,000 .
Column B shows the agglutination produced by immune serum in the same dilutions plus 0*5 c.c. of a 1 in 10 dilution of middie-piece in every tube .
All the tubes were incubated for 4 hours at 37 ' C. Remarks on Table V. It will be seen that the agglutinative power of the immune serum is increased by the addition of middle-piece .
The result of the addition of end-piece to middle-piece and immune serum is shown in Column C. No further increase in agglutination was observed .
Numerous experiments were made which gave results consistent with those shown in Table Y. To demonstrate the effect of middle-piece solution it is necessary to dilute the immune serum to such an extent that its agglutinative power is just beginning to disappear .
The action of such diluted antiserum can be increased by the addition of middle-piece solution .
Further , the agglutinative power of an antiserum which has been diluted beyond the point at which the agglutination can be appreciated , can be restored by the addition of the middle-piece solution .
These experiments show that there exists in normal guinea-pig serum some substance which increases the agglutinative action of antiserum .
This substance is thermostable , and probably has no connection with complement .
It can be separated from serum with the fraction of the globulins which are 1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned .
precipitated by diluting a serum with distilled water and saturating the mixture with carbonic acid .
In these characteristics it conforms to the description of conglutinin which is given by Bordet and Streng .
The substance may be neither more nor less than serum globulin or some fraction of globulin which is easily precipitated .
The experiments suggest that an agglutinating serum contains a specific antibody and a non-specific substance , both of which are necessary to produce agglutination .
When such a serum is greatly diluted the dilution may contain sufficient of the specific antibody but not sufficient of the non-specific anti-substance .
In such a case the non-specific substance can be supplied by adding middle-piece solution prepared from normal serum , and agglutination is produced .
Experiments to Determine the Way in which the Middle-Piece Solution aids A gglutination The inter-relation of the factors concerned in agglutination is to some extent illustrated by the following experiment .
Ten cubic centimetres of a 1 in 20 suspension of washed sheep red corpuscles were mixed with 20 c.c. of a 1 in 200 dilution of a heated haemolytic antiserum .
The mixture was allowed to remain in the cold room for one hour and was then centrifugalised .
The corpuscles were then thoroughly washed and again centrifugalised .
The sensitised corpuscles were then mixed with 10 c.c. of middle-piece solution .
In another tube an equal quantity of unsensitised sheep corpuscles was added to 10 c.c. of middle-piece solution .
Both tubes were placed in the cold room .
At the end of this time very marked agglutination had taken place in the tube containing the sensitised corpuscles .
The contents of both tubes were centrifugalised .
The deposit of agglutinated cells was shaken up in normal saline and again centrifugalised .
After two washings the deposit was thoroughly shaken up and suspended in normal saline .
Within 15 minutes the cells had re-agglutinated , and after half an hour had fallen in a compact mass to the bottom of the tube .
The supernatant fluid from the tube which contained the sensitised red cells was added to a further quantity of sensitised red cells .
After the lapse of several hours a very slight degree of agglutination could be detected .
It is evident that sensitised red cells can , in the process of agglutination , remove irom the solution of middle-piece the substance which produces the agglutination .
The supernatant fluid from the tube which had contained the unsensitised red cells contained the agglutinative substance in a state of unimpaired activity .
Some substance had been taken out of solution by the sensitised but not by the unsensitised \amp ; Us , YOp .
lxxjuy.\#151 ; B , % \ Mr. H. R. Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , The above experiment shows that sensitised cells remove from a middle-piece solution the substance which causes their agglutination .
To demonstrate the manner in which this substance was removed it was decided to employ a solution of the constituents of the corpuscles in distilled water .
One cubic centimetre of thoroughly washed sheep corpuscles was laked with 9 c.c. of distilled water .
The solution of corpuscles was made up to the usual saline content by the addition of 10 c.e. of T7 per cent , sodium chloride solution .
After filtering many times through filter paper a perfectly clear solution was obtained , representing a 1 in 20 solution of red corpuscles in normal saline .
The following mixtures were then prepared :\#151 ; Tube .
Solution of laked corpuscles .
Antiserum , rabbit v. sheep cells , 1 in 200 .
Normal saline solution .
Solution of middle-piece 1 in 10 .
Normal saline solution .
e.c. c.c. c.e. c.c. c.c. 1 5 5 \#151 ; 10 \#151 ; 2 5 \#151 ; 5 10 \#151 ; 3 5 5 - \#151 ; 10 4 \#151 ; 5 5 10 \#151 ; In tube 1 5 c.c. of the solution of corpuscles was added to 5 c.c. of the diluted antiserum .
In the control tubes 2 , 3 , and 4 the ingredients indicated in the first three columns were mixed .
The volume in each tube was then 10 c.c. All the tubes were allowed to remain for one hour at room temperature .
They were then examined and the contents were found to be absolutely clear .
To tubes 1 , 2 , and 4 were then added 10 c.c. of the 1 in 10 middle-piece solution ; to tube 3 was added 10 c.c. of normal saline solution .
All four tubes were then incubated for four hours at 37 ' C. , and then placed for 12 hours in a cool chamber at about 8 ' C. Tube 1 was then found to contain a small but definite white flocculent deposit .
The three control tubes remained absolutely clear .
This experiment with unimportant variations in detail was several times repeated .
In every case the tube which contained antigen , antibody , and middle-piece solution contained a precipitate .
The control tubes contained no precipitate .
Results obtained by adding Middle-Piece Solution to a Mixture of a Normal Serum with its Homologous .
It has been shown that sensitised red corpuscles are agglutinated by middle-piece and that in the process of agglutination the substance which produces 1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned in Agglutination .
the agglutination is removed from solution .
It has also been shown that a precipitate is formed in a mixture of laked corpuscles , antibody , and middle-piece .
This suggests that the substance present in the middle-piece solution is actually precipitated on the sensitised corpuscles and that such precipitation is a part of the mechanism of agglutination .
It was decided to examine the effect of adding middle-piece solution to a Table VI .
3 c.c. of horse + 3 c.c. antiserum , rabbit v. horse , diluted 1 in 10 .
-f 3 c.c. antiserum , rabbit v. horse , diluted bin 100 .
+ 3 c.c. normal saline solution . .
serum ( antigen ) diluted .
( A ) + 3 c.c. normal saline .
0 ) + 3 c.c. middle-piece 1 in 10 .
( B ) 4 3 c.c. normal saline- ( 0 + 3 c.c. middle-piece 1 in 10 .
( C ) + 3 c.c. normal saline .
( f ) + 3 c.c. middle-piece 1 in 10 .
1 1 in 5 Large precipitate Large precipitate dear Clear I Clear Clear j 2 1 in 10 33 Very slight opalescence Opalescence 33 \#187 ; 3 1 in 20 " 33 33 Marked turbidity S3 33 4 1 in 40 33 33 Clear 33 33 33 | 5 1 in 80 33 33 33 Opalescence 33 33 6 | 1 in 160 33 33 33 Slight opalescence 33 33 I 7 8 1 in 320 1 in 640 Precipitate Turbidity Precipitate Turbidity 33 33 Clear 33 33 33 33 33 1 9 | 1 in 1280 Controls .
33 33 33 33 10 1 3 c.c. saline solution Clear Clear Clear Clear Clear Clear All the tubes contained 9 c.c. The tubes numbered 1 to 9 in each column contained various dilutions of normal horse serum ( antigen ) .
To the tubes in column A were added 3 c.c. of normal saline solution and 3 c.c. of antiserum in a dilution of 1 in 10 .
To the tubes in row a were added 3 c.c. of a middle-piece solution ( 1 in 10 ) and 3 c.c. of antiserum 1 in 10 .
A bulky precipitate was formed in the tubes of column A and of column a. There was no difference in the appearance of the tubes in column A and in the tubes in column a. To the tubes in column B were added 3 c.c. of normal saline and 3 c.c. of antiserum diluted 1 in 100 .
To the tubes in column b were added 3 c.c. of middle-piece solution 1 in 10 and 3 c.c. of antiserum diluted 1 in 100 .
This dilution of antiserum produced a rather doubtful opalescence in tubes 2 and 3 of column B. The remaining tubes of column B were clear .
A very distinct difference existed between the tubes in column B and the tubes in column b. In the tubes in column b opalescence or turbidity was distinctly visible in tubes 2 to 6 .
The tubes in column C contained horse serum only .
The tubes in column c contained horse serum and middle-piece .
No precipitate was produced by this mixture .
The tubes marked 10 in the various columns show that neither antiserum alone nor antiserum and middle-piece solution produced a precipitate .
It will be noticed that the tubes 1 in columns B and b showed no opalescence .
This inhibitory effect is due to relative excess of antigen .
The tubes were incubated for 4 hours at 37 ' C. , and then allowed to stand overnight in the cold room .
Mr. H. II .
Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , mixture of normal horse serum and the serum of a rabbit which had been injected with horse serum .
Both the horse serum and the antiserum were heated for half an hour at 56 ' C. before use .
Since such a mixture of serum and antiserum produces a bulky precipitate it was found necessary to dilute the antiserum to such an extent that only a slight trace of opalescence was produced when it was mixed with the antigen .
The antiserum used was found to give a hardly perceptible opalescence in a dilution of 1 in 100 .
If less diluted antiserum was employed the precipitate formed was so large as to make it impossible to determine if the middle-piece solution took any part in the reaction .
The result of such an experiment is shown in Table VI .
Remarks on Table VI .
From a consideration of Table VI it appears that a mixture of a normal serum with its homologous antiserum is able to effect the precipitation of some substance present in the middle-piece solution .
This effect can only be demonstrated by using a greatly diluted antiserum .
As in the agglutination experiments the effect of adding middle-piece solution was only demonstrable if it was added to a small quantity of antiserum .
It also appeared that for the effective precipitation of middle-piece it was necessary that there should be present a relative excess of antigen .
This is of interest since it is precisely under these conditions that Bordet was able to produce the phenomenon which he called co-agglutination .
On the Properties of the Globulin Solution prepared from Sheep Serum .
The capacity of the middle-piece or globulin solution obtained from guinea-pig serum does not appear to be a peculiarity of the serum of the guinea-pig .
Fresh sheep serum was treated with C02 in a similar fashion and the resulting solution of the globulin precipitate had the power of increasing agglutination in a suitable mixture of sheep corpuscles and hmmolytic antiserum .
The result of adding a solution of sheep globulin to a mixture of horse serum with rabbit v. horse serum is shown in Table VII .
The following mixtures were prepared :\#151 ; Table VII .
Normal horse serum diluted 1 in 10 .
Rabbit v. horse serum diluted 1 in 50 .
Sheep middle-piece solution 1 in 10 .
Normal saline solution .
c.e. c.c. c.e. c.c. 1 5 5 10 \#151 ; 2 5 \#151 ; 10 5 3 5 10 5 4 5 5 \#151 ; 10 1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned Agglutination .
All four tubes were incubated for six hours at 37 ' C. and then allowed to stand for 12 hours in the cold room .
A distinct turbidity formed in tube 1 .
The contents of the remaining three tubes remained perfectly clear .
The middle-piece or globulin solution obtained from sheep serum was shown to have the same properties as the middle-piece solution obtained from guinea-pig serum .
It is proposed to supplement these experiments by examining the properties of the globulin solutions of a variety of animals .
Discussion of Results .
An agglutinating serum contains two factors , both of which are necessary to agglutination .
The one is the specific antibody , the other a precipitable substance , probably of the nature of a globulin .
By the interaction of antigen and antibody the molecules of the precipitable substance are aggregated on the surface of the blood corpuscle or bacterium which is to be agglutinated .
The amount of specific antibody necessary to produce agglutination is probably minute , and , by diluting an antiserum , a dilution can be obtained which contains sufficient antibody but not sufficient of the precipitable substance .
By adding to such a dilution of the antiserum a solution of the precipitable substance , derived from normal guinea-pig serum , agglutination can be effected .
The amount of precipitable substance necessary to produce the agglutination of sheep corpuscles appears to be considerably larger than the amount required to agglutinate typhoid bacilli .
The precipitable substance is thermostable , it is present in heated normal serum , and it can be precipitated from normal serum with a fraction of the serum globulin .
It can also be precipitated from a solution in normal saline by a suitable combination of an antigen with its antibody .
This precipitate is small and does not become visible until the experiment has been incubated for several hours .
It is probable that agglutination is effected during the earlier stages of the aggregation of the molecules of the precipitable substance , that is to say , before the process has advanced to the stage when a turbidity is visible .
The precipitable substance is probably identical with " con-glutinin .
" There is , however , this difference between the results obtained in these experiments and the conglutination effects of Bordet and his collaborators .
In Bordet 's experiments , conglutination was obtained by the interaction of four factors , namely , the red cells , the heated antiserum , heated ox serum ( conglutinin ) , and complement .
In the experiments described in this paper , agglutination was effected by the interaction of three factors\#151 ; the red cells Mr. H. R. Dean .
[ Oct. 13 , the heated antiserum , and the substance present in the middle-piece fraction of guinea-pig complement .
Sufficient experiments have not been performed to justify a definite statement as to the relation of the phenomena of conglutination and agglutination .
Nevertheless , it seems possible that agglutination and conglutination are essentially the same process .
This process is the aggregation or precipitation of a precipitable substance by the interaction of antigen and antibody .
In the case of agglutination this substance is a constituent of the agglutinating serum .
In the case of conglutination a further supply of this substance is supplied from another source ( ox serum ) .
The phenomenon described under the name of co-agglutination is of great interest in that the antigen is not a constituent of the agglutinated cell , but is derived from some different source .
In such an experiment the interaction of antigen with antibody produces such a change in the physical conditions of the mixture that the suspended corpuscles , which may be supposed to have no affinity for the antigen or antibody , are spontaneously agglutinated .
The result suggests the possibility that in an ordinary agglutination experiment the corpuscles may be agglutinated as the result of a reaction between antibody and antigen , which has diffused out of the corpuscle into the surrounding fluid .
If such a view be correct , it follows that the phenomena described as agglutination , conglutination , and co-agglutination are essentially the same .
Apart from the question of agglutination , the results recorded may possibly be found to have some bearing on other serum reactions .
The influence of the middle-piece and end-piece fractions of the complement in phagocytosis has been investigated by Dr. Ledingham in conjunction with the author , and the results of these experiments are shortly to be published .
With regard to the formation of precipitates , the experiments suggest that a suitable mixture of serum and antiserum is capable of precipitating a nonspecific substance derived from the serum of a third animal .
It seems , indeed , probable that the reason why an antiserum , if diluted , loses its powei oi producing a precipitate is not because the dilution contains too little anti body , but because there is not sufficient precipitable substance present to produce a precipitate .
It is sometimes held that , because a mixture of antigen with a dilution of antiserum can be prepared which shows no precipitate and nevertheless efficiently binds complement , the complement-binding antibody must be different from the precipitate-forming antibody .
Now it has been shown m Table YI that a mixture of certain proportions of horse serum with its homologous antiserum may remain quite clear , while on the addition of the 1911 .
] On the Factors Concerned in Agglutination .
433 globulin solution of guinea-pig serum a turbidity appears .
Now this globulin solution contains the middle-piece fraction of guinea-pig complement , the fraction which is known to disappear in a complement-fixation experiment .
It is proposed , therefore , to make these questions the subject of further investigation .
Summary .
( 1 ) Sheep corpuscles are , as is well known , agglutinated by an homologous antiserum .
If , to a mixture of corpuscles with antiserum so dilute that no agglutination is visible , there be added a solution of globulin obtained from normal guinea-pig serum , the corpuscles are markedly agglutinated .
By the use of suitable controls it can be demonstrated that neither the globulin solution nor the dilution of antiserum employed are of themselves capable of agglutinating the corpuscles .
( 2 ) The substance present in the globulin solution which aids agglutination is relatively thermostable , and its presence can be demonstrated in whole heated guinea-pig serum .
( 3 ) Corpuscles which have been sensitised and washed to remove free antibody can be agglutinated by the globulin solution .
If , after agglutination has taken place , the corpuscles be removed with a centrifuge , the supernatant fluid can be shown to have lost its agglutinating property .
( 4 ) The agglutinating power of an extremely dilute antityphoid serum can be increased by the addition of the globulin solution .
By the addition of globulin solution to a mixture of emulsion of typhosus with a dilution of antiserum which is too weak by itself to agglutinate the bacilli , distinct agglutination can be obtained .
( 5 ) The formation of a specific precipitate by the interaction of a serum with its homologous antiserum depends , as is well known , on the presence in the mixture of a relatively large amount of the antiserum .
If , to a mixture of serum with antiserum so diluted that it is no longer able to produce a precipitate , is added the globulin solution , a definite turbidity is produced .
( 6 ) It seems probable that an agglutinating serum ( antiserum ) contains two factors , both of which are necessary to produce agglutination .
The one of these is the specific antibody , the other is a non-specific substance which is possibly serum globulin .
The interaction of antigen with antibody produces an aggregation of the molecules of the non-specific substance which may ultimately result in the formation of a definite turbidity .
This process of aggregation of the particles of the non-specific substance is an essential part of the process of agglutination .
It is possible to make a dilution of an antiserum which contains sufficient of the specific anti-substance but not sufficient On the Factors Concerned in Agglutination .
of the non-specific substance .
The deficiency in non-specific substance can be made up by the addition of a globulin solution obtained from normal serum REFERENCES .
Barikine , W. ( 1910 ) .
" Contribution a l'Etude sir la Conglutination du Precipite specitique , " 'Centralbl .
f. Bakt .
, ' Abth .
1 , vol. 56 , No. 2 , p. 150 .
Bordet , J. , and Gay , F. P. ( 1906 ) .
" Sir les Relations des Sensibilisatrices avec l'Alexine " * Annals de l'lnstitut Pasteur , ' vol. 20 , p. 467 .
Bordet , J. , and Gengou , O. ( 1911 ) .
" La Coagglutination des Globules rouges par les Melanges des Anticorps et des Antigenes albumineux , " 'Centralbl .
f. Bakt .
, ' Abth 1 vol. 58 , No. 4 , p. 330 .
Bordet , L. , and Streng , O. ( 1909 ) .
" Les Phenomenes d'Adsorption et la Conglutinine du Serum de Boeuf , " ' Centralbl .
f. Bakt .
, ' Abth .
1 , vol. 49 , No. 2 , p. 260 .
Liefmann ( 1909 ) .
" Ueber den Mechanismus der Seroreaktion der Lues , " ' Munclmer Medizinische Wochenschrift , ' vol. 56 , No. 41 , p. 2097 .
Muir and Browning ( 1906 ) .
" On the Action of Complement as Agglutinin , " ' Journal of Hygiene , ' vol. 6 , No. 1 , p. 20 .
Streng , O. ( 1909 ) .
" Studien fiber das Verhalten des Rinderserums gegeniiber den Mikroben , " 'Centralbl .
f. Bakt .
, ' Abth .
1 , vol. 50 , No. 1 , p. 47 .
Colour-Blindness arid the Trichromatic Theory of Colour Vision .
Part III.\#151 ; Incomplete Colour-Blindness .
By Sir W. de W. Abney , K.C.B. , F.E.S. [ This paper is published in Series A , vol. 86 , No. 583 .
]

