]\gt ; .
LISTER , esident , in the Chair .
A of the Presents laid on the table , and dered for them .
The were read:\mdash ; I. tntion of an stic Spheroid S. S. B.A. , Fellow of .
Johu 's College , tolt Student in the sity ( Professor .
H. , F.R.S. ) 12 , 1 , It is vcll know that if igid body : whose principal momenth of inertia are set about its axis of symlnet ] and then be subjccted to a slight distut.bance , it will execute oscillations its mean position , in ce of which the axis of periodic displacements relatively to the body a eriod bears to the period of rotation the ratio : ) of the present investigation is to determine to what extent this eriod will be modified if the body- , instead of being perfectly rigid , is capable of elastic tions .
The analysis is confined to the case of a homogeneous spheroid of revolution composed of isotropic , incompressible , gravitating material , while for ful'ther simplicity the body is supposed to be free from strain in its interior when rotating uniformly .
If we efer to a set of ectangular axes rotating vibh uniform angnlar velocity about the axis of , the rigorous differential equations or the vibrations of such a are u\mdash ; 2(/ .
Mr. S. S. Hough .
[ Jan. 16 , where denote the displacements at the point is a function depending on pressure and potential at this point , and , where is the rigidity and the density .
Putting each proportional to , and performing the differentiations with regard to the time , the above equations become ( 2 ) .
These equations are theoretically sufficient to determine subject to ertain boundary conditions .
The boundary conditions should also lead to a series of values of , which correspond to the different periods of free oscillation of the system .
2 .
The boundary conditions express the fact that the free surface is not subiect to stress .
Denoting by the direction cosines of the normal to the mean surface , from this condition we obtain the following equations , which hold good at the undisturbed surface : \mdash ; where denotes the value of gravity at the surface , the height of the snrface waves , and the potential due to the harmonic inequalities .
1896 .
] The Rotation of an Elastic Spheroid .
3 .
To obtain a solution of the equations of motion subject to boundary conditions , suppose the displacements consist of two parts : 1st , ?
, due to the rotation of the body as a whole through small angles about Ox , Oy ; and 2nd , , due to stic distortion .
Then\mdash ; Changing the variables from to the equations of nlotiou take the form conditions the height of surface waves equent on the displacements ?
, and the ) of due to the harmonic .
The advantage of this transformation consists in The Rotation of an Llastic Spheroid .
[ Jan. 1 fact that in the oscillation with which we are concerned ' will all be small quantities of the order of bbe ellipticity of the spheroid , while will be small of the order or .
Hence , if we neglect small quanlities of the order of square of the ellipticity the equations ( 4 ) reduce to ( 6 ) , hile to the same order of approximation the bollndary equations ( 5 ) may be supposed to hold good at the surface of a sphere 4 .
The equations ( 6 ) , the boundary conditions ( 5 ) at the snrface of the sphere , are the equations obtained in considering the equilibrium of a sphere distorted by forces throughout its mass derivable.from a potential function .
By the well-known solution of this problem we therefore obtain ( 7 ) , where We have thus expressed by means of constants .
If with these values of we form expressions for the angular momenta of the body about the axes Ox , Oy , and then express that the rates of change of these angular momenta , are zero , we obtain equations the ratios of the ties and involving .
Eliminating from these equations we are led to an equation for , which is found to reduce to 5 .
If we had neglected the elastic distortions we should have obtained to the same order of approximation On a of Spherical Hence , the effect of elastic distortion is to prolong the period in the a spheroid of the same size and mean rotating iu a sidereal day , we find that the period is extended from 232 days days if the rigidity be that of steel .
Assuming tbab the case the actual Earth the effects of heteroto still further proIong the period in the ratio 305 : 232 , find the of oscill , of the Earth , of tho rigidify of steel , 440 days .
indicates that the earth is undergoing such an oscillation as have been discussing a period of 427 days instead of the period of days indicated by theor on the assumption that the mution would take place sensibly in the same manner if the .
We see now that the geItce between theol'y tion can be explained by taking into account the elastic tionH of the solid parts of earth , and that the of idity rquired to accoullt for observed period is slightly in of of steel .
explanation been offered by Professor colnb , the problcm by a simple geometrical method .
The main undertakiug tlJe present ] ytical i to eminc the validity of made by Newcomb .
An examinalion of the type of oscillation indicated by our ] ysis adopted by Newcomb is legitimate , but crro ] in ssumed law of displacement of the pole to trifugal force .
Our method has the additional of the degree of accuracy which the results Yllay ) to hold good .
II .
a Type of of unrestricted 1)egrec , Order , and Aument. .
By E. eceived Decembcr 23 , ( Abst act .
) Th of considered in this memoir , fies tho differential equation de , ' Astron. Joul.'vols .
11 , seq. of Royal Astron. , 1892 .

