]\gt ; Mr. A. B. Basset .
On the [ Nov. 24 , IV .
" " On the Motion of a ere in a Viscous Liquid By A. B. .
Commumcated by LORD RAYLEIGH , D.C.L. , Sec. .
Received November 10 , 1887 .
( Abslract .
) The determination of the small oscillations and steady motion of a sphere which is immersed in a viscous liquid , and which is moving in a straight line , was first effected by Professor Stokes in his wellknown memoir " " On the Effect of the ]nternal Friction of Fluids on the Motion of Pendulums ; \ldquo ; in the appendix he also determines the steady motion of a which is rotating about a fixed diameter .
The same subject has also been subsequently considered by and other German writcrs ; but , so far as I have been able to discover , ittle appears to been effected with respect to the solution of problems in which a solid body is set in motion in a viscous liquid in any given manner , and then left to itself .
In the present paper I have ondeavoured to determine the of a sphere which is projected vertically upwards or downwards with given velocity , and allowed to ascend or cend under the action of gravity ( or constant force ) , and which is surrounded by a viscous iquid of unlimited extent , which is initially at rest excepting so far as it is disturbed by the initial motion of the sphere .
In solving this problem , mathematical difficulties have compelled me to neglect the squares and products of velocities , and quantities depending thereon , which involves the assumption that the velocity of the sphere is always small throughout the motion ; and I have also assumed that no slipping takes place at the surface of the sphere .
The problem is thns reduced to obtaining a suitable solution of the differential equation where .
is Stokes 's current function , and is the kinematic coefficient of iscosity .
The required solutio1l is obtained in the form of a definite by a method similar to that employed by Fourier in solving analogous problems in the conduction of heat ; the resistance experienced by the sphere is then calculated , and the equation of motion written down and integrated by successive approximation on the supposition that is a small quantity .
The values of the acceleration and velocity of the sphere to a approximation are found to be * ' Cambridge Phil. Soc. Trans vol. 9 .
1887 .
] Jlotion of a Sphere in a viscous Liqnid .
, being the density of the liquid , that of the sphere , and its adius .
It thus appears ) after a ve time has elapsed , the acceIeration will vanish and the motion will become steady .
The tcrminal velocity of the spherc is is seen to with ProfessoI 's result .
If the sphere were projected with velociby , and compelled by means of frictionless constrainb to move in a horizontal straight line , the values of the acceleration : velocity would be obtained from the preceding formulae by expun g the terms , in the expressions respectively , and then into The preceding resuIts can only be arded as a } representation of actual motion , for ( i ) the square of the vcloclty has been neglected ; ( ii ) no account has been taken of the possibility 0 hollow spaces formed in the liquid ; ( iii ) if the velocity of the sphere became large , the amount of heat developed would be sufficient to the liquid in the immediate hood of the sphere , and the circumstances of the ] would be materially In the latter part of the paper I have considered the problem of bphere , surrounded by a viscous liquid , which is set in rotation with given angular velocity , , about a fixed diameter , and results obtained .
To a first approximation the angular velocity is equal to , whore is a positive constant , which the motion ultimately dies away .

