124 Drs. H. Chambers and S. Russ .
Action of [ May 1 , boiled with dilute acid in order to hydrolise the glucoside , considerable oxidation , accompanied by brown coloration , will take place .
Palladin* maintains that the formation of post-mortem pigments from aromatic chromogens is proof of the significance of the latter in respiration .
Some of the plants from which he obtained the greatest quantity of pigment by treatment of the extracts with peroxidase and hydroxyl are of the pyro-catechin-containiug .
type , and the presence of this phenol , when it occurs , would doubtless accelerate the oxidation of the extracts .
But the reactions obtained after death may be no real guide to knowledge of the true metabolic reactions of the living tissues .
The formation of brown pigment on autolysis and injury in pyrocatechin-containing plants is no doubt largely due to the oxidation of the phenol itself , but , in addition , coloration may be caused by the oxidation of other aromatic compounds , i.e. tannins , flavones , etc. , when once the system peroxide-peroxidase has been established .
The Action of Radium Radiations upon Some of the Main Constituents of Normal Blood .
By Helen Chambers , M.D. , and S. Russ , D.Sc .
, Beit Memorial Research Fellow .
( Communicated by Dr. J. R. Bradford , Sec. R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read June 1 , 1911 .
) The following experiments were undertaken with a view to determining the effect in vitro of the different radiations from radioactive substances upon some of the main constituents of normal blood .
The observations have so far been extended to the haemolytic action of the a-rays on red corpuscles , to the effect of these rays on leucocytes , and to their action on opsonin and complement .
Numerous experiments have also been made with the ft- and 7-rays , but , generally speaking , the results have been of a negative character .
The Hcemolytic Action of the When radium emanation is mixed with citrated human blood , haemolysis results .
The liberation of haemoglobin is a gradual process , as is evidenced * Palladin , " tJber das Wesen der Pflanzenatmung , " * Biochem. Zeitsch .
, ' 1909 .
1911 .
] Radium Radiations upon Normal Blood .
125 by the following experiment , which is typical of several:\#151 ; A glass bulb of volume 30 c.c. contained 2 c.c , of citrated blood and emanation equal in quantity to the equilibrium value of 26'5 mgrm .
KaBr2 .
The blood was examined at different times and a count made , by means of a Thoma Zeiss apparatus , of the percentage of completely htemolysed corpuscles .
The results are indicated in Table X. Table I. Time of exposure .
Completely hsemolysed corpuscles .
Percentages .
hours .
2 0 6 0 19 7-2 42f 84 When haemolysis was complete , the corpuscles were found to be colourless and slightly shrunk , but retaining their corpuscular form .
The spectrum of met-hsemoglobin was observed at the end of the observations .
The conversion from oxy-haemoglobin was not complete , however , as some of the bands of this substance were also visible.* The haemolysis was found to be due to a direct action of the a-particles on the red corpuscles by the following experiments :\#151 ; ( 1 ) Emanation mixed with washed red corpuscles gave marked haemolysis in 24 hours .
( 2 ) Emanation mixed with serum for 24 hours and the latter added to washed red corpuscles gave no haemolysis .
( 3 ) Emanation enclosed in a glass tube just thick enough to exclude the a-rays , while allowing free exit of the / 3- and 7-radiations , produced no haemolysis in blood contained in a tube which surrounded that in which the emanation was held .
The concentration of the emanation in these three experiments was nearly the same as in that initially described .
The direct proof of the haemolysis being due to the a-particles has been shown by means of the apparatus of fig. 1 .
A finely powdered specimen of radium bromide was spread over a circular area of 2 sq .
cm .
, this being the bottom of a cavity 1 mm. deep in a * Haemolysis and the formation of met-hsemoglobin have been observed by Henri and Mayer ( ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1904 , p. 521 ) experimenting with frog 's blood and that of the dog , by exposing it to 100 mgrm .
of radium .
The type of radiation producing the results is , however , not stated .
126 Drs. H. Chambers and S. Russ .
Action of [ May 1 , brass capsule ( fig. 1 ) .
The grains were held in position by very thin varnish .
The cavity was covered with an air-tight sheet of mica ( A ) , sufficiently thin to allow escape of the a-particles.* On another thin sheet of mica ( B ) a drop of citrated blood ( C ) was spread over a known area .
The drop was covered over with a shallow watch- ... A Radium __________________________________R Fig. 1 .
glass ( E ) , vaselined round its edge to prevent evaporation .
The mica B was then placed over A , and radiation proceeded for any desired interval .
It was clear that , since the liberation of haemoglobin is a gradual process , if an accurate relation between the time of radiation and the number of haemolysed corpuscles were to be found , sufficient time must elapse after radiation and before the count was made , to allow of the release of the haemoglobin from the affected corpuscles .
Twenty-four hours were found to be sufficient for this purpose .
The same volume of citrated blood ( 12'5 c. mm. ) was taken each time and spread over an area of 1*5 sq .
cm .
on a sheet of mica .
This was then exposed to the a-radiation from the radium capsule .
A control was provided in each case .
It may be seen from Table II and the curve in fig. 2 that the number of totally hsemolysed corpuscles for a given intensity of radiation bears a simple relation to the time of exposure .
A separate experiment showed that the products of haemolysis had no haemolytic action on other red corpuscles .
Table II .
Time of exposure .
Percentage of unhsemolysed corpuscles .
h. m. 0 15 98 1 0 93-5 1 40 84*5 4 15 58 -8 6 35 45*6 10 45 25 24 0 10 * Two such , brass capsules were made , one containing 2*4 mgrm .
, the other 3'27 mgrm .
RaBra .
We are indebted to Mr. F. H. Glew for their preparation .
Radium Radiations u'pon Normal Blood .
An estimate of the number of a-particles required to hsemolyse a red corpuscle is possible owing to the precision with which the essential quantities in the calculation are known , viz. , the number of corpuscles per cubic millimetre of blood , and the number of a-particles emitted per second from a measured quantity of emanation.* From experiments in which the emanation was mixed with blood , a calculation results in the number 2000 being required for the complete haemolysis of a red corpuscle .
From those in which the a-particles had to penetrate two sheets of mica , a maximum estimate of the number in question is 8000 .
In view of the different experimental conditions , the difference between the two numbers is not significant .
The Action of the a-Rays on Leucocytes .
It has been found that the a-particles are capable of not only destroying leucocytes , but also , by virtue of their action on the serum , rendering a radiated region free of them .
A simplification of Ponder'sf method of obtaining leucocytes has been used for these experiments .
A drop of blood is put on a mica plate , covered , but not touched , by a watch-glass to5 prevent evaporation , and incubated at 37 ' C. for about 20 minutes .
On removal of the clot large numbers of leucocytes are found on the surface of the mica , to which they * Rutherford and Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , 1908 , vol. 81 , p. 173 .
t Ponder , ' Camb .
Phil. Soc. Proc. , ' 1909 , vol. 15 , Part I. 128 Drs. H. Chambers and S. Buss .
Action of [ May 1 , adhere firmly ; they may be repeatedly washed and then stained without being freed .
If the blood be not incubated , clotting is delayed , and the motion of the leucocytes to the surface considerably prolonged ; this is of importance in the following experiments:\#151 ; A drop of blood was placed on a clean piece of mica , sufficiently thin to allow easy penetration of the a-particles .
It was covered with a watch-glass and placed on the radium capsule , the radiation from which was screened in such a manner that it was entirely confined to a square window of about 1*5 sq .
mm. On placing the mica sheet over the capsule , therefore , the drop of blood was not radiated by the a-rays except the area which was directly above the small window .
After an exposure of about 20 hours at room temperature the clot was removed , the mica surface washed with saline , and stained .
The resulting picture was as indicated by fig. 3 .
It is seen that in a region corresponding to the radiated area there is an almost complete absence of leucocytes ; the area free of leucocytes is , however , slightly greater than that of the window , the ratio determined by a magnified projection on squared t paper being 1*34:1 .
This increase is probably due to cross firing of the rays .
A different result was obtained under the following circumstances :\#151 ; A drop of blood was shed on to a thin mica sheet , covered with a watch-glass , and incubated for 1J hours .
This ensures a plentiful supply of leucocytes on the mica surface .
The system was removed from the incubator and placed over the radium capsule , which was again provided with a small square window , of area 1 sq .
mm. , through which came the a-rays .
After an exposure of about 20 hours at room temperature , followed by the usual staining process , the picture presented was as shown in fig. 4 .
Inspection showed that the area free of leucocytes was much larger than that of the window .
A measurement similar to that already described gave the ratio 2*8 :1 .
In this experiment numerous degenerate leucocytes were observed in the radiated and surrounding zones .
If therefore the a-radiation proceeds during the slow migration of the leucocytes out of the clot to the mica at room temperature , the area free of leucocytes practically corresponds to the aperture through which the rays come .
If , however , the leucocytes are first allowed to make their way to the mica surface , part of which is then radiated , the area free of leucocytes is found to be much larger than that of the radiated area .
The different results in these two experiments indicate that in the former 1911 .
] Radium Radiations upon Normal Blood .
the leucocytes do not reach a radiated region , but tend to drift into a protected zone .
The leucocytes do not , however , move as a direct result of the a-radiation , for if incubation occur simultaneously with radiation , leucocytes are found on the radiated surface , although to a modified extent .
During the slow motion of leucocytes to the mica at room temperature , changes are taking place in the radiated serum , forming a layer over the mica .
As will be seen later , there is a lowering of the opsonin and complement content of the serum over the radiated region .
The leucocytes seem to move from a radiated to a non-radiated region , i.e. , from a serum in which changes have been induced by the radiation , to a serum which is unaltered .
This motion can be explained by changes in . .
... .
4 ' ?
: .AV " ' ; w .
' V4v-i 'm m a . .
::i - ' V ' Fig. 4 .
surface tension corresponding to some alteration in the constitution of the fluids in which the leucocytes are moving .
The surface tension of a-radiated serum , determined by the capillary tube method , showed a reduction when compared with that of a control normal serum .
The change is indicated by the figures in Table III .
Table III .
Surface Tension in dynes per cm .
at about 10 ' C. Normal serum .
Radiated serum .
Time of radiation .
66 -2 66 -2 67 -5 63 61 2 50-1 hours .
24 44 54 VOL. lxxxiv.\#151 ; B. Drs. H. Chambers and S. Russ .
Action of [ May 1 , Further evidence of the absence of leucocytes upon a radiated surface and of their drift into a protected region is given by fig. 5 , which was obtained by screening the a-radiation from one-half of the capsule .
The motion of the leucocytes occurred at room temperature .
To account for the enlargement of the area free of leucocytes when incubation occurs previous to radiation , the suggestion is put forward that the leucocytes are destroyed after making their way to the mica surface and liberate some fluid products which have a destructive effect upon the leucocytes in the surrounding zones .
These products gradually diffuse away MM -a *K ; .* .
- -.y a-rays .
; No a-rays .
Fig. 5 .
from the radiated area and effect the destruction of leucocytes quite outside the direct stream of the a-rays .
This observation was substantiated by a series of experiments in which apertures of different sizes were used .
The diffusion effect , measured by the enlargement of the radiated region , was more pronounced the smaller the aperture .
The Action of the Radiations on Opsonin .
The experiment has been described in which titrated blood was exposed to the action of the emanation in a closed glass bulb and the degree of haemolysis observed from time to time .
Simultaneously with these observations the opsonic content of the blood was compaied with that of the control .
1911 .
] Radium Radiations upon Normal Blood .
The usual procedure in estimations of opsonin was adopted and an emulsion of Staphylococcus aureus was used in every case .
The first estimation , which was made 19 hours after exposure of the blood to the emanation had begun , gave evidence of a reduction of the opsonic content .
The leucocytes used had , however , been subject to the radiations , and were degenerated .
In consequence of this action the radiated blood was centri-fugalised and the opsonin content of the supernatant fluid was determined with freshly washed leucocytes .
After 44 hours ' exposure the following result was obtained :\#151 ; Control fluid gave ... 372 micro-organisms in 60 leucocytes .
Experimental fluid gave 34 " 60 " The effect , then , of long exposure is apparently a marked reduction in the opsonin .
According to some experiments by H. Reiter , * in which emanation was mixed with blood for short periods of time , an increase of the phagocytic power of blood cells was observed , for to quote from this author\#151 ; " Soweit nacli den Versuchen in vitro zu erteilen ist , scheint die Emanation die phagocytare Tatigkeit der Blutzellen anzuregen , in einzellen Fallen bis zu 30 X " The experiment was varied , as , during the previous exposure , the serum was the recipient of products of radiated corpuscles , the action of which might possibly injuriously affect phagocytosis .
Some citrated blood was centri-fugalised and about 1 c.c. of the supernatant fluid was exposed to the emanation and examined on two occasions with the following results:\#151 ; Time of exposure .
19 hours ( Control fluid gave t Experimental fluid gave 495 micro-organisms in 160 leucocytes , 84 " 160 f Control fluid gave 388 100 LExperimental fluid gave 57 100 In order to test whether there were substances formed in the radiated fluid which might be inhibitory to phagocytosis , further observations were made with the two plasmas of the last experiment .
The procedure is indicated as follows :\#151 ; Experimental plasma + Control plasma + Micro-organisms + Washed leucocytes.\#151 ; Film I. I I I I 1 vojume 1 volume 1 volume 2 volumes .
Saline solution + Control plasma + Micro-organisms + Washed leucocytes.\#151 ; Film IT .
* H. Reiter , ' Zentralblatt fur Rontgenstrahleny Radium , etc. , ' 1910 , p. 243 .
Drs. H. Chambers and S. Buss .
Action of [ May 1 , A count of the two films which were prepared gave the following results :_ Film I gave 441 micro-organisms in 150 leucocytes .
Film II " 541 " 150 It is clear that if the experimental plasma had contained substances inhibitory to phagocytosis , their influence should still be manifest when added to the control plasma .
The difference between the counts of the two films , amounting as it did to only 20 per cent. , shows that the large reduction previously observed with the radiated serum is mainly to be attributed to a reduction in the opsonin normally present .
The effective agent is here again the a-particle .
By excluding this type of radiation and exposing serum to the j3- and 7-rays , no appreciable alteration in its opsonic content was obtained with quantities of the order 5 to 10 mgrm .
RaBr2 , and for exposures lasting about forty hours .
A series of observations was made by taking a measured volume of serum ( 12-5 cu .
mm. ) spread over an area of 1*5 sq .
cm .
on a thin mica sheet and exposing it to the a-radiation from one of the capsules .
A fresh sample of serum was used for each exposure , as , owing to the very limited penetration of the fluid by the a-rays , only j ust sufficient for an opsonic determination was radiated .
After the serum had been radiated for any selected interval , its opsonic content was compared with that of the control .
The results obtained are given in Table IY and shown graphically in fig. 6:\#151 ; Table IV .
Time of radiation .
Percentage of opsonin in radiated serum .
Number of micro-organisms in 100 leucocytes .
Control .
Experiment .
1 h. m. 2 40 82 620 506 5 15 58 620 360 10 30 59 386 228 14 0 31 42 per cent.* 430 182 18 20 35 47 " * 607 244 20 15 24 210 50 36 45 14 383 53 45 0 9 681 64 * A smaller quantity of Ea was used in these cases , the numbers on reduction give 31 and 35 per cent. The general character of the curve is of the simple exponential type , but owing to the possibility tljat the method of estimating the amount of Radium Radiations upon Normal Blood .
opsonin is not strictly quantitative , it cannot be asserted that the destruction of opsonin rigorously follows an exponential law .
The Action of the Radiations on Complement .
A similar series of observations was made with haemolytic complement .
For this purpose a thin film of serum was exposed to the a-radiation from one of the capsules in the manner already described .
The complement in the radiated serum was then compared with that contained in the control .
In order to obtain a quantitative estimate of the complement , a method similar to that described by Dr. Emery* has been used .
Briefly , the method consists in procuring a 20-per-cent , suspension of fully sensitized red blood corpuscles , obtained by adding to 1 volume of washed corpuscles , 4 volumes of a strong immune serum .
To 4 volumes of this suspension is added 1 volume of the serum , the complement in which is being tested .
After being kept at 37 ' C. till luemolysis is complete , the liquid is centrifugalised and the amount of free haemoglobin in a constant volume ( 76 cu .
mm. ) of the supernatant fluid tested by means of a Sahli heemometer .
This instrument was calibrated by adding to 4 volumes of sensitized red corpuscles 1 volume of serum of varying dilutions .
The amount of free hsemoglobin as read from the scale of the instrument was found , within the limits of the experimental error , to be proportional to the strength * Emery , 'Lancet , ' 1911 , p. 490 .
Drs. H. Chambers and S. Russ .
Action of [ May 1 , of the serum added , and therefore to the amount of complement present , as may be seen from fig. 7 .
For hsemometer readings below 20 accuracy is not claimed .
Fig. 7 .
The volume of serum exposed to the radiation in the opsonin experiments was 12*5 cu .
mm. , but this being an inconveniently small quantity in the complement estimations , the volume was increased to 30'5 cu .
mm. After an exposure of any -desired interval the amount of complement in the radiated serum was compared with that in the control .
The results may be seen from Table V and fig. 8 .
Table V. Time of exposure .
Percentage of complement remaining .
| h. m. 13 15 92 17 30 82 -5 22 15 76 -6 28 0 86 36 25 64 41 15 48 .
44 35 46-8 46 30 52 -9 54 15 15 estimated 66 30 10 A comparison between this curve and that in fig. 6 shows a striking dissimilarity in the reductions of opsonin and of complement in serum when subject to a-radiation ; but the two curves are not quantitatively comparable , owing to the difference in the volume of serum radiated in the two cases .
For this reason three determinations of the reduction in opsonin 1911 .
] Radium Radiations upon Normal Blood .
were made in which the same volume of serum was radiated as in the complement experiments .
These three observations are indicated by the thin line curve , fig. 8 .
The type of the curve is identical with that Fia .
8.\#151 ; The crosses ( x ) on the complement curve indicate values obtained with the use of sensitized sheep 's corpuscles , the circles ( o ) those obtained with sensitized human corpuscles .
previously obtained , the only difference being a diminished rate of reduction of opsonin , as was to be anticipated .
Inspection of the complement curve shows that the reduction is slow at first , the rate gradually increasing with time , as may be seen from the convexity of the curve to the time axis .
The experimental and control sera were , except for the radiation , kept under identical conditions at room temperature .
The spontaneous disappearance of complement is therefore eliminated as a disturbing factor , by a comparison between the two sera .
It should be pointed out , however , that fresh serum was used for every experiment , because it was found that the complement in serum which has been kept for some days at 0 ' C. was more affected by the radiation than fresh serum .
The general character of the two curves ( fig. 8 ) indicates the separate identity of opsonin and complement .
The complement curve suggests either that this substance becomes more unstable under the action of the radiation , or that its amount is in some way dependent upon some other substance present in serum .
The small initial reduction in complement could , on the latter supposition , be explained if this substance under the action of the radiation were eventually reduced to complement ; then , despite the simultaneous reduction 136 Dr. F. Darwin and Miss D. F. M. Pertz .
[ June 15 , in the latter , a supply would be provided owing to the breaking down of the former .
Our present methods need elaboration before this question can be settled .
Nummary of Conclusions .
1 .
Red blood corpuscles are hsemolysed by the action of a-rays , and oxy-hsemoglobin is converted into met-haemoglobin .
2 .
Leucocytes undergo marked degenerative changes when subjected to a-rays .
During the process of clotting , leucocytes appear to move away from an a-radiated region .
This movement has been attributed to changes found to occur in the surface tension of blood serum when radiated .
3 .
The .
specific properties of opsonin and haemolytic complement are lost when serum is exposed to a-rays .
The progressive changes caused by these rays indicate the separate identity of opsonin and complement .
4 .
The / 3- and 7-rays have yielded negative results in analogous experiments .
On a New Method of Estimating the Aperture of Stomata .
By Francis Darwin , F.R.S. , and D. F. M. Pertz .
( Received June 15 , \#151 ; Read June 29 , 1911 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE S 1 .
Method ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 136 S 2 .
Difficulties ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
139 S 3 .
Comparison with other Methods ... ... ... . .
139 S 4 .
Stomatal Aperture and Transpiration ... .
141 S 5 .
Light and Darkness ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
143 S 6 .
Withering ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 149 S 7 .
Conclusion ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
153 S 1 .
Method .
It is usually assumed that transpiration is regulated by two principal factors : ( 1 ) the relative humidity of the air , and ( 2 ) the degree of aperture of the stomata .
Neither of these assumptions has been experimentally proved , though both of them are necessarily true , but it must be remembered that the factors referred to are not necessarily the only ones that govern the phenomena .
The experiments hitherto made on ( 1 ) the effect of relative humidity are

