3 .
" An Account of the artificial formation of a Vegeto-alkali .
" By George Fownes , Esq. , Chemical Lecturer in the Medical School of the Middlesex Hospital .
Communicated by Thomas Graham , Esq. , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in University College .
The substance which is the sulject of investigation in this paper is a volatile oil , obtained by distillation from a mixture of bran , sulplhuric acid and water , and is designated by the author by the name of furfurol .
Its chemical composition is expressed by the formula C15 H6 06 , and its properties are the following:-When firee from water and freshly rectified , it is nearly colourless ; but after a few hours , it acquires a brownish tint , which eventually deepens almost to blackness .
When in contact withi water , or when not properly rendered anhydrous , it is less subject to change , and merely assumes a yellow colour .
Its odour resembles that of a mixture of bitter almond oil and oil of cassia , but has less fragrance .
Its specific gravity at 60 ?
Fahr. is 1'168 ; it boils at 323 ?
Fahr. , and distils at that temperature without alteration .
It dissolves to a large extent in cold water and also in alcohol .
Its solution in concentrated sulphuric acid has a magnificent purple colour , and is decomposed by water .
Nitric acid , withi the aid of heat , attacks the oil with prodigious violence , evolving copious red fumes , and generating oxalic acid , which appears to be the only product .
It dissolves in a solution of caustic potash , forming a deep brown liquid , from which acids precipitate a resinous matter .
With a slight heat , it explodes when acted upon by metallic potassium .
When placed in contact with 5 or 6 times its bulk of Liquor ammonit , it is gradually converted into a solid , yellowish-white , and somewhat crystalline mass , which is very bulky , perfectly soluble in cold water , and teaily obtained in a state of dryness under a vacuum .
The formula expressing the chemical constitution of this substance , or of furfuroamide , as the author calls it , is C ' 5 H6 N O3 , and it is classed by him with the amides .
The oil itself appears to be identical with the substance described by Dr. Stenhouse under the name of artificial oil of ants .
Another substance , isomeric with the amides , and of which the formula is C0 HI1 N 06 , was obtained by the author , and termed by himfu ?
furine , and found to have the properties of a vegeto-alkali , and to form saline compounds with various acids .

