IV .
A Letter from Mr. James Yonge , F. R. S. to Dr. Hans Sloane , R. S. Secr. containing an Account of an Unusual Blackness of the Face ; and of several Extra-Uterine Faetus 's .
Honoured Sir , THE Relation I sent September 1707 .
of an hairy Bunch ejected by Urine from a Nephritick Woman , I find did not meet that Regard , and Credit which I think it well deserved .
I own that Mr. Leeuwenhoek 's Objections seem to have some strength , but cannot shock my Belief at all : For beside a nice Examination , and full Consideration of all Circumstances at first , I am confirmed in the Assurance I then had , that it came thorough the Urethra , was not conveyed , or by any accident dropped into the Pot , by such Evidence a posteriori , as are little short of Demonstration : viz. That the Tumour which was in the side of her Belly , in which her chief Anguish lay before the Evacuation , vanished with it ; together with all those otherSymptoms , which molested her ; viz. Strangury , faetid and purulent Urine , and have not now in two Years made any return .
I have a couple of other Rarities to present ( with my humble Duty ) to the R. Society ; one of them is matchless , and to me wholly new .
I will relate it very briefly , because being not yet at an end , I expect occasion to give you a further account of it .
` A Girl 16 Years old , a Daughter of Elizabeth Worth ` of this Town , had about the end of last April a few ` hot Pimples rise on her Cheeks , which Bleeding and a ` Purge or two cured .
She continued very well 'till about ` a Month afterward , when her Face , so far as is usual ` lie covered with a Vizard-mask , ~suddenly turned black ` like that of a Negro .
This surprising Accident much ` amazed and frighted the Girl : especially after some ` foolish People persuaded her she was bewitched , and ` never to be cured : By Prayers , Exorcisms , and other ` Incantations they endeavoured to relieve and take off ` the Fascination ; which proving ineffectual , the Passion ` and~ Terror of Mind increased to a great degree , ` even to Distraction , and then they demanded my As ` stance .
By the Arguments I used , and some composing Antihysterical Remedies , the Violence of her Fits became much pacisied .
I also directed a Lotion for her Face , which took off the Discoloration , but it returned frequently , but with no regularity , sometimes twice or thrice in Twenty Four Hours , sometimes five or six times .
It appears insensibly to the Girl , without Pain , Sickness , or any Symptoms of its approach , except a little warm Flushing just before it appears .
It easily comes away , and leaves the Skin clear , and white , but smuts the Cloth that wipes it from the Face ; it feels Unchious , and seems like Grease , and Soot , or Blacking mixed .
It hath no Taste at all , which is to me very strange , that a fuliginous Exsudation should be insipid .
She never had the Menses ; is thin , but healthful ; the Blackness appears no where but in the prominent part of her Face .
There are a thousand Eye-witnesses to the truth of this Wonder ; but I am not able to find , or conjecture the caused of it , nor have I ever heard of the like .
I shall be glad to know your Opinion , and ready to make such further Enquiries as you shall please to send , in order to discover the cause of this dark and strange Phenomenon .
The second Rarity I am to impart is extraordinary , but not wholly new , and solitary , as the first is , having been observed by some the last Century .
It was communicated to me by a very Learned Divine of this Country , in these Words- ; ` I send this to ac ` quaint you with a strange Occurrence observed here ` last Week : A Gentleman 's Servant having killed an ` Ewe , which was thought fat , and taken out the ` Bowels , found a very unusual and monstrous lump of ` Fat , proceeding like a Wen from the middle of the ` Omentum .
I was called to see this Wonder ; and having ` cut it open , found enclosed a Lamb of the same Parts , ` Feature , and Dimensions with others of that kind .
` How it came there ?
And how nourished ?
are Que ` stions I would have resolved .
I soon apprehended what it was that seemed so very strange and unaccountable to my Friend , having thirty Years since been shown the like , found in a Bitch , by an expert and ingenious Surgeon in Oxford ; and from that time observed , and considered all of that Nature which have occurred to me in Books , or otherwise ; and so was ready to tell that Learned , and curious Gentleman , that that Lamb was not conceived in the Womb , but in one of the Fallopian Tubes ; wherein growing too big to be contained , it either broke out into the place where it was found , or slipped back toward the upper Orifice , and thorough it into the Belly : That afterward assisted by the prone and inclining Posture of the Sheep 's Body , it slipped forward to the Omentum , and was there nourished the usual way , viz. by the placenta , which was doubtless fixed in the Tube , and the Pedunculus being kept whole , will easily extend from thence to the Faetus , where it lay .
Had this Sheep been nicely dissected by a skilful Hand , I verily believe we should have found my Opinion true in fact .
Riolan Jun. Anthropog .
Nov. lib. 2 .
c. 34 .
was the first that publicly observed these strange Conceptions ; and he tells us they have the Coats , Secundine , &amp;c. of such Faetus 's as are engendered within the Womb .
And considering the late Anatomical Discoveries , and new Hypothesis of the genital Parts in Women , and their uses in Generation , made by Theod .
Kirkringius , Reg. de Graaf , and others ; it seems more than probable , that such Conceptions as we are speaking of , happen when in Coition one of the Eggs descends into the Tube ; and being unable to pass into the Uterus thorough the lower Orifice ( which is sometimes , and in aged People always , contracted ; ) and being however impregnated by the Aura Seminalis , or * Animalcula , wherewith the Testicles and seminal Parts of some Males do so prodigiously and incredibly abound ; it there grows 'till too big to be contained , and then breaks forth into the Belly : Though sometimes , as I shall show by a memorable Instance , they continue in the Tube it self .
There the Placenta fixes , and sucks Nourishment as from the Fundus Uteri ; and if the Pedunculus holds together , conveys it to the Faetus , as it doth to those in the natural Place of Breeding .
I have perhaps with too much freedom and too little exactness laid before you my Notions , and the * Mr. Leeuenhoek saith , the Milt of a Codfish hath more Animalcu~ , than there are People on the Earth .
Dr. Hook .
Phil. Collect .
No. 1 .
Idea I have of this Matter ; but it is with humble Submission to your Censure and Correction : Craving leave to amplify a little on this subject , By reciting what of the kind hath been by several others discovered , and considered .
Such Extra-uterine Embryo 's have been sometimes found in Women ; but not publicly taken notice of 'till the beginning of the last Century , by the younger Riolan .
ut supra , with this Remark : ( Speaking of the Fallopian Tubes ) They appear , saith he , of the same Nature and Substance as the Womb , Quia carnosa est , in qua , quod est mirabile , faetum Humanum concipi fuit observatum .
Then gives an account of four such strange Conceptions , which occurred to his Knowledge .
Since which time , more marvelous ones have happened in that Country ; two of them much amused the Curious every where .
One was found at Paris , January 1669 .
by Mr. B. Vesal , in the right Tube of a Woman .
It was four Months old , and so grown , and the Tube so distended , as made him mistake it for another Womb , and accordingly to call the Account he published thereof , Demonstration d'une double Matrice .
Mr. Oldenburgh put an Extract of it into the Philosophical Transactions , No. 48 .
and the German Academy , Vol. 1 .
Obs. 110 .
did the like : But neither seemed to understand the Mystery , 'till de Graeff took it right , and made use of this very Observation to illustrate and confirm the Hypothesis of Kirkringius .
And soon after Elsholtius , a learned German , did the same in a little but curious Tract , De conceptione Tubaria , qua Humani Faetus extra Uteri cavitatem in tubis quandoque concipiuntur .
He recites the Story as from Mr. Vesal , and gives the Figure of the supposed two Wombs and the Faetus in the distended Tube ; and aamong other such Conceptions , mentions two large Mola 's found without the Matrix of one Woman .
About Ten Years afterward a much more wonderful , and incredible one happened there , which puzzled the Philosophers to apprehend , or believe .
It comes very well attested by Mr. Bail , who first published an History of it in the Journal des Scavans , A. D. 1678 .
Soon after M. Nic .
Blegny did the same in a particular Tract with Figures , which I have by me : And afterward Mr. Oldenburgh put an Extract of it into the Philosophical Transactions , No. 139 .
` A Woman , A. D. 1652 .
came to her full time of ` bearing , but altho ' she had all the Symptoms usual ` at that season , no Child came .
She continued in that ` Condition twenty Years , still feeling the Child within ` her .
From that time she felt not any motion it had .
` In June 1708 .
she died , and the next day was opened .
` In her Belly , without the Womb , a dead Child was ` found lapped up in the Omentum : It weighed Eight pounds ; ` and altho ' it was kept in that hot Season three Days ` out of the Mothers Belly , it did not stink .
Mr. Blegny was curious to Inspect , and give a particular Account of this wonderful thing to the World , not only in the Tract above-mentioned , but also in the first Volume of his Zodiacus Medicus , Obs. 9 .
with very remarkable , and learned Animadversions .
Before either of these appeared in France , there happened one in Holland to H. Rhoonhuys .
` A ` Woman with Child , at her full time , was four Days ` in Labour , and although she had so many Midwives , ` could not be Delivered .
Our Author was called , De ` cember 1658 .
found the Internum Uteri Osculum close ` shut : Without Flowings , or other Fore-runners of ` Delivery .
He finding the common Passage so closely ` shut up , and a very painful Tumour above the Navel , proposed the Caesarean Section .
The Woman have ` ing seen that dreadful Operation made at Paris , earnest ` lie desired him to perform it on her .
But he , to observe ` some unnecessary Forms , delayed it 'till the Woman ` was past Life : Who he believes might with the Child ` have been preserved , if the Operation had been done ` when he first saw her .
Opening the Belly after death , he found a Child amidst the Entrails ; and , as he saith , the Placenta fastned to the Colon , and part to the Fundus Uteri ; and that there was a Breach in the Womb capacious enough for the Infant to pass thorough it into the Belly ; and that Wound he thinks was made by a blow , altho ' it hurt not the external Parts , nor made Impressions on the tender Embryo .
I ca n't approve , nor will I censure the many things in his Report liable to exception , and which Critics will be apt to think absurd .
I presume to believe he mistook the extended Tube for a Matrix , as Vesal did .
Erranti nullus termimus .
A much more famous , and learned Man than he , ( T. Bartholinus , ) did the Year after Rhoonhusyse 's Exploration , meet such an extraneous Faetus lapped up in a Mola , which he found in the Belly of a Woman ; and thus conjectures Non possum aliud divinare , quam quod faetus hic primo fuerit in Tubis uteri conceptus .
He imparted this Story first to G. Horstitus , Ep. 58 .
Vol. 4 .
Afterward to the whole World , in the 92d Observation of his sixth Century .
A. D. 1662 .
In the City of Aurange , D. Bald vin , and Mr. De la fort found Puellum Egregium , optime formatum extra uterum .
The report of this Discovery is made public by the famous Sachs , with very learned Remarks .
Miscell .
Cur .
Vol. 1 .
Obs 110 .
which he concludes cludes ( as I shall ) with one more stupendious than all I have cited , which he had from the Silesia Chronicle , written long since by N. Polinus , and thus relates it .
` A. D. ` 1581 .
A Woman that had born Ten Children in ` Fifteen Years Matrimony , conceived again , and at the ` full time was delivered through an Abscess of the left ` Hypocondria .
Ex qua infans boni habitus extractus , qui ` Baptizatus fuit , &amp; annum unum cum demidio supervixit ; ` Matter vero , summis in doloribus tertio die obiit .
Sir , I humbly beg your Opinion of these Reports , and my Notions ; that if I am skilful or lucky enough to meet your Concurrence and Approbation , I may accordingly value my self , or be better informed .
Plimouth , August 16 .
1709 .
James Yonge .

