On Fossil Shells .
By Lewis Weston Dillwyn , Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to Sir Humphry Davy , Bart. P.R.S. Read June 5 , 1823 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1823 , p. 393 .
] In describing the shell fish supposed to yield the Tyrian dye , Pliny hasadverted to its power of boringthe shells of other fish ; and Lamarck says that all mollusca , whose shells have a notch at the base of their apertures , are possessed of similar powers .
In the other genera of turbinated univalves , the aperture , instead of being notched , is entire , and they have all been proved to be herbivorous .
Every turbinated univalve which Mr. Dillwyn has examined of the older beds , from the transition limestone to the lias , belongs to these herbivorous genera , and the family still inhabits our land and waters .
On the contrary , all the carnivorous genera abound in the strata above the chalk , but are very rare in the secondary strata .
In recent shells small holes bored by the predaceous Trachelipoda are common ; and Mr. Dillwyn has observed similar holes in fossils from the London clay , but never in those of the older formations ; and he thinks that the whole family of carnivorous Trachelipoda are very rare in all those strata where the Ammonites and other Nautilidae abound .
Ammonites , and the other principal multilocular genera , appear to have become extinct in northern latitudes when the chalk formation was completed : but a few of the Nautilidae still inhabit the Southern Ocean .
Mr. Dillwyn further observes , that all the marine genera of the herbivorous Trachelipoda , to which the fossil species belong , have an operculum , and that the carnivorous species of the secondary strata agree with them in this particular , though the unoperculated genera abound in the London clay .
Although fossil Nautilidae are common in the secondary strata of the United States , they are said not to have been found in South America .
Hence , says the author , it may be queried whether the Cephalopoda were not confined to the more northern latitudes when the chalk formation was completed ; and whether a decrease in the earth 's temperature at that period may not have occasioned the entire destruction of some genera , and the migration of others to the south .

