On Fairy-rings .
By William Hyde Wollaston , M.D. Sec. R.S. Read March 12 , 1807 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1807 , p. 133 .
] In this paper the author relates briefly some observations which he formerly made on the progressive changes of these rings , which appear to him to lead to a satisfactory explanation of their origin .
In the first place he observed , that some species of fungi were always to be found at the exterior margin of the dark ring of grass if examined at the proper season .
This position of the fungi led him to conjecture that progressive increase from a central point was the probable mode of formation of the ring ; and he thbught it likely that the soil which had once contributed to the support of fungi , might be so exhausted as to be rendered incapable of producing a second crop .
The defect of nutriment on one side would occasion the new roots to extend themselves solely in the opposite direction , and would cause the circle of fungi continually to proceed , by annual enlargement , from the centre outwards .
The luxuriance of the grass follows as a natural consequence , as the soil of an interior circle is enriched by the decayed roots of fungi of the succeeding year 's growth .
Such a progressive enlargement , he remarks , had already been observed by Dr. Hutton on the hill of Arthur 's Seat near Edinburgh ; but Dr. Hutton had not attended to the production of fungi .
Dr. Withering , on the contrary , remarked the connexion of the rings with fungi , but had not noticed their progressive enlargement .
During the growth of fungi , the author observes , they so entirely absorb all nutriment from the soil beneath , that the herbage is often for a while destroyed , and a ring appears bare of grass , surrounding the dark ring ; but after the fungi have ceased to appear , the soil where they had grown becomes darker , and the grass soon vegetates again with peculiar vigour .
For the purpose of observing the progress of various circles , he marked them by incisions for three or four years in succession , and found their annual increase to vary from eight inches to as much as two feet , according to the species of fungus to which they are owing ; for he has observed as many as five species that have this mode of growth ; -Agaricus campestris , Ag .
orcades , Ag .
procerus , Ag .
terreus , and the Lycoperdon bovista .
The author has had many opportunities of remarking , that when two circles interfere with each other 's progress , they do not cross each other , but are invariably obliterated between the points of contact .
The exhaustion occasioned by each obstructs the progress of the other , and both are starved ; a circumstance which he considers as a strong confirmation of his hypothesis .
He has further remarked , in one instance , that different species of fungi appear to require the same nutriment : for , in a case of interference of a circle of mushrooms with another of puff-balls , the circles were , as in other cases , both obliterated between the points of union .
With the hope of ascertaining in what length of time a soil might recover the power of producing a fresh crop of fungi , a groove was cut along the diameter of a mushroom-ring , and a quantity of the spawn taken from its circumference was inserted along it ; but the experiment unfortunately failed altogether , and the author had no opportunity of repeating the experiment .

