1891 .
] Quadrant Electrometers .
IY .
" Quadrant Electrometers .
" By W. E. Ayrton , F.R.S. , J. Perry , F.R.S. , and W. E. Sumpner , D.Sc .
Received May 19 , 1891 .
( Abstract .
) In 1886 it was noticed , on continuously charging up the needle of Sir William Thomson 's bifilar suspension quadrant electrometer No. 5 , made by Messrs. White , of Glasgow , and in use at the laboratories at the Central Institution , that the deflection of the needle , when the same P.D. ( potential difference ) was maintained between the quadrants instead of steadily increasing , first increased , and then diminished ; so that , both for a large charge on the needle as well as for a small , the sensibility of the instrument was small .
A similar effect had been described by Dr. J. Hopkinson , in the ' Proceedings of the Physical Society , ' vol. 7 , Part 1 , for the previous year , and the explanation he gives of this curious result is , that if the aluminium needle be below the centre of the quadrants , the downward attraction of the needle which varies with the square of the needle 's charge increases the pull on the bifilar suspension , and so for high charges more than compensates for the increased deflecting couple due to electrical action .
On raising , however , the needle of our electrometer much above the centre of the quadrants , the anomalous variation of sensibility of the instrument with increase of charge in the needle did not disappear , and even when the needle was raised so that it was very close to the top of the quadrants , and when , if Dr. Hopkinson 's explanation were correct , the sensibility ( or deflection corresponding with a given P.D. between the quadrants ) ought to have been very great for a large charge on the needle , it was , on the contrary , found to be small .
The needle was carefully weighed , with the platinum wire attached and the weight dipping into the acid , and a calculation was made as to the magnitude of the effect that should arise from the change of the pull of the fibres due to any upward or downward attraction of the needle by the quadrants .
This calculation showed that for a P.D. of 3000 volts between the needle and the quadrants , the amount of such attraction was quite unable to account for the observed diminution of sensibility with large charges in the needle .
Dr. Hopkinson says in his paper , " Increased tension of the fibres from electrical attraction does not therefore account for the whole of the facts , although it does play the principal part .
" The experiments that we made at the end of 1886 and beginning of 1887 , confirmed by the calculation above referred to , proved that , at any rate in our specimen of the quadrant electrometer , the principal part of the anomalous 54 Profs .
Ayrton and Perry and Dr. Sumpner .
[ June 4 , action was not caused by an increased tension of the fibres , and that therefore some other cause must be looked for to explain the observed results .
An investigation , which turned out to be both lengthy and very laborious , was therefore undertaken to ascertain the cause of this curious behaviour of our White electrometer .
At first we thought that it might be due to some capillary action between the platinum weight and the sulphuric acid , which varied with the potential of the acid , but , experiment having shown that this was not the explanation , we decided to make an exhaustive series of experiments for determining the laws connecting the variation of sensibility of the White quadrant electrometer with the potential of the needle , the distance between the silk fibres , and the distance between the quadrants .
The investigation has occupied us on and off for some years , and in carrying it out the quadrant electrometer has had to be taken to pieces many times .
To facilitate the frequent removal of the interior of the Leyden jar , rendered necessary for carrying out the various experiments , an improvement was introduced into the method of clamping the needle , and to diminish leakage , an improvement was introduced into the replenisher , both of which are described in detail in the paper .
The P.D. between the needle and the outside case of the electrometer was measured by means of one of Sir William Thomson 's absolute electrometers , made especially sensitive by thinning the coach springs supporting the attracted aluminium disc .
In July , 1888 , several large P.Ds\#171 ; were measured by means of this absolute electrometer ( using the constants that we had determined for this instrument ) , and by means of one of Sir William Thomson 's commercial " electrostatic voltmeters , " reading to 20,000 volts , kindly lent us by Messrs. Elliott Brothers .
The result of these comparisons led first to a correction in the constants that had been previously sent out with the electrostatic voltmeters from Glasgow , and secondly , to a new determination of the value of " r. " For Sir William Thomson had calibrated these voltmeters electromagnetically on the basis of the value of the electrochemical equivalent of silver , as determined by Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick , while we had checked the calibration of the electrostatic voltmeter by comparing this instrument with the absolute electrometer .
The value of " v " thus obtained was 298 million metres per second .
From the experiments made on varying the distance between the fibres supporting the needle of the quadrant electrometer , it was found that , when the control due to the fibres was large , the sensibility of the quadrant electrometer increased more rapidly than the potential of the needle , whereas , when the control due to the fibres was small , the sensibility increased with the potential of the needle 1891 .
] Quadrant Electrometers .
up to a certain point , and then diminished again as the potential of the needle was still further increased .
From experiments made by varying the distance between the quadrants , we found that when the distance between the quadrants was small , the sensibility first increased as the potential of the needle was raised , then it diminished , and finally it increased again for a still further increase of the potential of the needle .
The curve , therefore , connecting sensibility with potential of the needle was invariably of an ru shape for a small distance between the quadrants .
As the distance between the quadrants was increased , the sensibility curve flattened , becoming practically straight when the distance separating the quadrants was 3'9 mm. For a greater distance than this between the quadrants , the sensibility increased more rapidly than the potential of the needle .
The various curves accompanying the paper show that this quadrant electrometer may be adjusted so that the variation of sensibility with the potential of the needle may be made to follow one or other of three distinct laws .
If the quadrants be near together , there are certain limits between which the potential of the needle may vary without producing more than a small change in the deflection corresponding with a fixed P.D. between the quadrants ; for example , when the quadrants were about 2^ mm. apart , and the fibres near together at the top , the deflection produced by a P.D. of 1*45 volts between the quadrants only varied about 11 per cent , when the potential of the needle varied from 896 to 3586 volts , that is , by 2690 volts .
When the fibres were far apart at the top , it was when the quadrants were about 1 mm. apart , as seen in sheet III , that a similar flatness was obtained in the curve connecting deflection with potential of the needle .
In this case the deflection of the needle was practically quite constant when its potential varied between 2152 and 3227 volts , and even when the potential of the needle was increased from 1434 to 3407 volts , that is , by nearly 2000 volts , the deflection did not increase by as much as 9 per cent. This arrangement of the quad-rants gives but a comparatively small sensibility , but , where great sensibility is not required , it would be a convenient one to employ , as leakage of the Leyden jar , or loss of potential of the needle due to the rapid absorption that occurs when the jar is first charged , would only slightly affect the deflection for a fixed P.D. between the quadrants .
When the quadrants were at about 3*9 mm. apart , the deflection for a given P.D. between the quadrants was almost directly proportional to the potential of the needle .
This then would be the arrangement to employ when the electrometer is used with alternating P.Ds .
And lastly , when the quadrants were 4 mm. or more apart , the deflection increased much more rapidly than the potential of the 56 Profs .
Ayrton and Perry and Dr. Sumpner .
[ June 4 , needle , so that maximum sensibility , bordering on instability , is obtained with this arrangement of the quadrants .
After carrying out a large number of experiments , the cause of the irregularity in the action of the Thomson quadrant electrometer , as made by Messrs. White , began to dawn on us .
The wire supporting the aluminium needle , as well as the wire which connects the needle with the sulphuric acid in the Leyden jar , is enclosed in a metallic guard tube to screen the wire from external action .
But , in order that the needle may project outside the guard tube , openings are made in its two sides .
Hence the moment the needle is deducted from its zero position , each half of the needle becomes unsymmetri-cally placed relatively to the two metallic pieces which join the upper and lower half of the guard tube .
Therefore , in spite of the needle and the guard tube being always maintained at the same potential , there is a repulsion between the charges on the two connecting pieces of the guard tube and the charges on the two halves of the needle .
And this repulsion has not only the defect of seriously diminishing the sensibility of the quadrant electrometer as made by Messrs. White , but causes the variation of sensibility of the electrometer with variation of the P.D. between the needle and the outer coating of the Leyden jar to follow a far more complicated law than that expressed by the conventional formula just given .
To test this theory , that the peculiarities in the law of the quad- , rant electrometer are due to the electric action of the guard tube on the needle in consequence of the special shape of the former , we intensified and varied the want of symmetry of the guard tube by attaching a piece of thin aluminium foil to it above and below the needle , and experiments made on the law connecting the sensibility of the electrometer with the potential of the needle showed that the law could be much altered in character by a slight shift in the position of the piece of aluminium foil .
The paper then goes on to describe experiments connecting the motion of the electrical zero with the potential of the needle , and with the position of the adjustable quadrant .
Gruided by the results of a long course of experiments on the White electrometer , we were led , with the assistance of Mr. Mather , to construct an improved unifilar quadrant electrometer which is fully described and illustrated in the paper .
This improved electi'ometer differs in numerous particulars from that made by Messrs. White .
The bifilar suspension is abandoned for reasons given in the paper , and there is employed instead a new form of adjustable magnetic control , so arranged that the needle is practically unaffected by outside magnetic disturbance .
All the working parts are supported from the base , so that on removing the glass shade , which serves as the Leyden jar , all the parts can be got at and adjusted position ; all the Quadrant Electrometers .
1891 .
] insulated stems are made of glass , and are under cover , protected from dust and damp ; pressure contact between the electrodes and the quadrants is replaced by spirals of fine wire screwed to the quadrants and to the electrodes ; the needle , quadrants , and guard tube are so shaped that , in whatever symmetrical position the quadrants be placed , the deflection produced by a given P.D. between the quadrants is directly proportional to the potential of the needle , and further , this improved electrometer is at least ten times as sensitive as our specimen of the White pattern when the instruments are adjusted to be in equally trustworthy condition as regards definiteness of the zero and of the deflected position of the spot of light .
Next follows an account of some experiments made by us on a White electrometer , the needle of which Mr. Boys had suspended with a single quartz fibre .
Although this instrument was in excellent condition as regards definiteness , \amp ; c. , the raising of the potential of the needle to only 400 volts was sufficient to show that the sensibility was not proportional to the needle 's potential .
Lastly , for the purpose of obtaining conclusive evidence as to whether our idea was correct about the connecting pieces of the guard tube in the White electrometer causing the sensibility of this instrument to be in many cases actually less when the needle had a high potential than when it had a low , we had constructed a little collar with two legs .
This collar could be clamped to the upper portion of the guard tube of the improved electrometer with the legs projecting down into the quadrants on each side of the needle , and experiments showed that when this collar was attached to the guard tube the improved electrometer , although not a bifilar instrument , became as bad as the White pattern .
For while before the attachment of this collar the sensibility increased proportionately to the potential of the needle , after the collar was attached the sensibility first increased and then diminished again as the potential of the needle increased , and with the same adjustment of the quadrants , controlling magnets , \amp ; c. , and with the needle charged to a potential of 1300 volts , the mere attachment of this little collar reduced the sensibility to one quarter .
The paper concludes with a sketch of the mathematical investigation that we carried out , and it is explained that by taking into account the electrical action of the connecting pieces of the guard tube of the White electrometer , the diminution in this action as the quadrants are pulled out , the alteration produced by the tilting of the needle at high potentials on the magnitude of this electrical action as well as on the rate of variation , per radian deflection of the needle , of the coefficient of induction between the insulated pair of quadrants and the needle , an expression was obtained for the deflection of the needle in terms of its potential and the P.D. between the Dr. Marcet .
Absorption of Oxygen and [ June 4 , quadrants .
And this expression , although containing only three constants , fitted with considerable accuracy all the curves given in the several sheets accompanying the paper .
The results of the investigation , briefly summed up , are as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
The quadrant electrometer as made by Messrs. White , although it may be carefully adjusted for symmetry , does not usually even approximately obey the recognised law for a quadrant electrometer when the potential of the needle is altered .
2 .
The peculiarities in the behaviour of the White electrometer are due mainly to the electrical action between the guard tube and the needle , and to the slight tilting of the needle that occurs at high potentials .
3 .
By special adjustments of the quadrants of the White electrometer the sensibility can be made to be either nearly independent of the potential of the needle , or to be directly proportional to the potential , or to increase more rapidly than the potential of the needle .
4 .
By altering the construction of the instrument as described , the conventional law for the quadrant electrometer is obtained without any special adjustment of the quadrants beyond that for symmetry , and the instrument is rendered many times as sensitive as the specimen we possess of the White pattern .
Y. " Researches on the Absorption of Oxygen and Formation of Carbonic Acid in ordinary Human Respiration , and in the Respiration of Air containing an Excess of Carbonic Acid .
" By William Marcet , M.D. , F.R.S. Received May 25 , 1891 .
Allow me to begin by recording the valuable help I have experienced throughout the present enquiry from my assistant , Mi .
Edward Russell , F.C.S. We have both put our shoulders to the wheel , and have gone together through the great number of calculations the work entailed .
I am much indebted to Mr. Russell for the pains be has taken , and the accuracy of his judgment whenever a knotty point had to be met and overcome .
My object in the following paper is to give an account of the consumption of oxygen in human respiration , or , in other words , to determine the proportions of oxygen transformed into carbonic acid , and of oxygen retained in the blood , to which is added a short inquiry into the effects produced by the inhalation of air containing C02 on the interchange of the pulmonary gases .
The investigation was carried out , so far , on myself and Mr. Russell , while under the

