1889 .
] Occurrence of Skatole the Vegetable Kingdom .
Table showing the comparative Weight of Shells of similar Size .
Locality .
Level .
Extremes or length in mm. Average length of 20 specimens .
Total weight in grams of 20 specimens .
Shore of Aral Sea 21\#151 ; 17 19 2 13-3 Shumish Kul 1st terrace 21\#151 ; 17 19 1 14 1 DittO .
2nd terrace 21\#151 ; 17 19 '4 14 5 Ditto 4th terrace 21\#151 ; 17 19-2 6 5 Ditto 5th terrace 21\#151 ; 17 18-9 61 Ditto 7th terrace 21\#151 ; 17 19 -7 4-6 Shore of Abu Kir . .
21\#151 ; 17 19-0 6 4 Jaksi Klich Upper deposit 23\#151 ; 19 20 '4 7-8 Ditto. .
.* Low er deposit 23\#151 ; 19 20-4 5 5 Jaman Klich Sub-fossil shells at Man- Lower deposit 21\#151 ; 17 19 -2 5-1 dara 26 -21 23-4 24 -2 Shore of Mareotis , , 2.1\#151 ; 22 23 8 12 0 Ramleh Lake No. 1 ( Fresh water ) 25-20 214 18-3 Ramleli Lake No. 2 ( Fresh water ) 26\#151 ; 23 24 1 23 6 IV .
" On the Occurrence of Skatole in the Vegetable Kingdom .
" By Wyndham R. Dunstan , M.A. , F.C.S. , Professor of Chemistry to , and Director of the Research Laboratory of , the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain .
Communicated by W. T. Thiseltoy Dyer , C.M.G. , M.A. , F.R.S. Received May 23 , 1889 .
Skatole is the name given by Brieger ( ' Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 10 , p. 1027 ; ' Journ. fiir Prakt .
Chem. ' [ 2J , vol. 17 , p. 129 ) to a substance he obtained in 1887 from human excrement ( to ( neap , a/ caro ?
) which possessed the disgusting odour of the faeces .
Nencki ( ' Journ. fur Prakt .
Chem. ' [ 2 ] , vol. 17 , p. 98 ) soon afterwards recognised the same substance among the products of the decomposition of albumen by fused potash .
Secretan ( 'Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 10 , p. 1031 ) isolated skatole from the products of the putrefaction of albumen .
Later , Salkowski ( ' Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 12 , p. 651 ) separated it from the putrefaction products of flesh and afterwards from those of various forms of animal proteid ( ' Zeits .
fur Physiol. Chem. , ' vol. 8 , p. 417 ) .
Tappen-heimer ( ' Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 14 , p. 2382 ) has found skatole in the intestines of several herbivorous animals , and recently Stoehr ( 'Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 20 , p. 1108 ) has obtained it , along with indole and other substances , by distilling strychnine 212 Prof. W. R. Dunstan .
the Occurrence of [ June 6 , with lime .
Nencki ( ' Journ. fur Prakt .
Chem. , ' vol. 20 , 1879 , p. 466 ) bj a series of analyses of skatole and its picrate , showed that the composition of the substance is expressed by the formula C9H9N , and that it might be regarded as the methyl-derivative of indole ( C8H7N ) , a compound which is associated with skatole in the faeces , and which is also produced during the putrefaction of albumen .
In 1880 von Baeyer Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 13 , p. 2340 ) described a method of preparing skatole , together with indole , from indigo , which was reduced with tin and hydrochloric acid , and the resulting reduction product distilled with powdered zinc .
Three years later , in 1883 , Otto Fischer and German achieved a synthesis of skatole ( ' Deutsch .
Chem. Gesell .
Ber .
, ' vol. 16 , p. 710 ) by heating glycerol with a compound of zinc chloride and aniline , C6H7N + C3H803 = C9H9N + H30 .
Fileti ( ' Gazz .
Chim .
Ital .
, ' vol. 13 , p. 350 ) in the same year prepared skatole by distilling the barium salt of orthonitrocumic acid with powdered zinc , CgH^NO^ + JZn = 3Zn0 + H30 + C9H9N , and he inferred from this synthesis that skatole is Pr-3 methyl indole , an inference which has since been fully substantiated .
Quite recently a most interesting synthesis of skatole has been made by Emil Fischer ( ' Liebig 's Annalen , .
' vol. 236,1886 , p. 137 ) from pro-pylidene phenylhydrazide .
This compound when heated with zinc chloride yields ammonia and Pr-3 methyl indole ( skatole ) , C(CH3 ) Ph. N3H:CH .
CH3CH3 = NH3 + C6H4\lt ; -C\gt ; ch .
Neither skatole nor indole has hitherto been observed to occur in plants .
They have appeared to be characteristic products of the bacterial resolution of animal proteid .
Among the many plants collected by the late Daniel Hanbury , F.R.S. , and now deposited in the Museum of the Pharmaceutical Society , there was a small specimen of wood to which the Curator , Mr. E. M. Holmes , drew my attention on account of it intense odour , which recalled that of \#171 ; -naphthylamine .
Since \#187 ; -naphthylamine has not been noticed as a plant constituent I determined to examine the specimen , which was labelled Geltis reticulosa , Java .
It was evidently the wood of a large tropical tree .
In order to be well assured of the identity of the specimen I applied to Mr. Thiselton Dyer for information about this plant , and I am greatly indebted to him for the trouble he has taken in ascertaining what is known on the subject .
Mr. Dyer informs me that " Geltis reticulosa was the name given by Miquel to a tree growing in Java .
Planchon subsequently identified the species with Geltis cinnamomea of Lindley ( De Candolle 's ' Prodromus , ' vol. 17 , p. 181 ) , which occurs throughout Eastern India and Ceylon .
Thwaites regards the Ceylon Skatole in the Vegetable Kingdom .
1889 .
] form as a distinct species , under the name of Gelt is dysodoxylon ( ' Enum .
of Ceylon Plants , ' p. 267 ) .
But botanists generally sink it with the Java species in Celtis cinnaThwaites says : ' The freshly cut timber of the tree possesses a powerful and .
very disgusting odour .
' I have not come across any other notices of this singular property .
But the evidence , though indirect , goes to show that your wood is correctly named and what it professes to be .
Celtis belongs to the lTrticacece .
' ' ' The total quantity of the wood I was able to obtain amounted to rather less than 200 grams .
A small quantity of the finely powdered wood was moistened with water and distilled with steam .
The first fractions of the distillate contained white particles which dissolved in the larger quantity of water that was subsequently condensed .
The distillate was examined for naphtliylamine , but none could be detected .
On submitting to steam distillation a larger quantity of the powdered wood , and extracting the aqueous distillate with light petroleum , a substance possessing an intolerable odour of faeces was obtained .
It crystallised from water in colourless scaly crystals , which were dissolved by ether , alcohol , and benzene .
The aqueous solution was not precipitated by a saturated solution of picric acid until the liquid had been strongly acidified with hydrochloric acid , when a dark red precipitate appeared .
The dilute aqueous solution was not coloured or otherwise affected by the addition of fuming nitric acid or by a mixture of sodium nitrite and sulphuric acid , neither did it colour a pine shaving moistened with hydrochloric acid .
By warming with hydrochloric acid the aqueous solution was coloured cherry-red .
By these reactions the absence of indole was conclusively proved , but it seemed probable that the substance might be an indole-derivative .
The picrate was obtained by precipitating the aqueous solution ( prepared from the ethereal extract of the distillate ) strongly acidified with hydrochloric acid , with a saturated solution of picric acid .
The dark-red precipitate was collected and distilled with dilute ammonia .
The recovered substance was again converted into the picrate by a repetition of the process described above , and this was collected , washed with cold water , and dried over sulphuric acid .
The dark-red needles of the picrate melted with some decomposition between 159\#151 ; 161 ' C. In a portion of this salt the niti'ogen was determined by Dumas ' method , the gas being collected through the limb of a Sprengel pump .
[ Weight of picrate taken 00258 gram ; corrected volume of nitrogen obtained 3'2 c.c. Percentage of nitrogen in the picrate 15*5 .
Calculated for 0911311.05112(1100)3011 , 15'5 per cent , of nitrogen .
] It was thus proved that the substance possesses the composition of 214 Prof , W. R. Dunstan .
On Occurrence of [ June 6 , methyl indole .
It remained to determine whether it corresponded with any of the known isomeric methyl indoles .
These are Pr-1 methyl indole , which is liquid above \#151 ; 20 ' C. ; Pr-2 methyl indole ( methyl ketole ) , which melts at 59 ' C. ; Pr-3 methyl indole ( skatole ) , which melts at 93\#151 ; 94 ' 0 .
( Nencki ) , 95 ' C. ( E. Fischer ) , and Bz-3 methyl indole , which melts at 58 ' C.* A crystalline specimen of the methyl indole was prepared from the picrate by distilling it with dilute ammonia .
The distillate was extracted with ether , and the residue left by the evaporation of the ethereal solution was crystallised from water .
These crystals were observed to melt at 93'5 ' 0 .
, and were , therefore , identical with Pr-3 methyl indole , the skatole of Brieger .
To completely confirm this conclusion a synthesis of skatole was made from propylidene-phenyl-hydrazide , and the properties of the synthetical skatole were found to be identical with those of the skatole from Celtis reticulosa .
It was not possible with so small a quantity of material to estimate the amount of skatole contained in the wood , but it is extremely small , and is certainly considerably less than 1 per cent. Conflicting statements exist with reference to the odour of skatole .
The skatole from Celtis reticulosa undoubtedly possesses a strong faecal smell .
Von Baeyer has stated that when pure , skatole has no faecal odour , while Brieger , Emil Fischer , and others assert that it has .
Some curious facts were observed during the course of this investigation which may throw some light on the cause of this divergence of opinion .
It was noticed that the faecal smell is most marked when the substance is present in minute quantities .
When larger quantities of the substance are smelt the odour appears to be penetrating , but more aromatic than faecal .
It also seems that after repeatedly smelling the substance the nose becomes insensitive to the effect of minute quantities and fails to recognize the faecal odour .
It may be useful to refer here to the delicacy of the various reactions for skatole and indole , since it ' is often important to recognise the presence of very small quantities of these substances in pathological fluids .
The formation of the white insoluble nitroso-derivative from skatole by the action of nitrous acid cannot be * The nomenclature followed is that proposed bj Emil Fischer , the isomerides in which the substitution occurs in the pyrrole nucleus of indole being distinguished as Pr-derivatives , and those in which substitution takes place in the benzene nucleus as Bz-derivatives .
The hydrogen atoms of the two nuclei are numbered in accordance with the following plan\#151 ; CH HC HC / i\ ' 3 | 3i Bz Pr I 2 I 21 CH VNH CH 5'CH 1880 .
] Skatole in the Vegetable Kingdom .
recognised in very dilute solutions , but the production , under the same conditions , of a reddish colour or precipitate is a sensitive test for the presence of indole .
By far the most delicate reaction for skatole consists in the development of a cherry-red colour when an aqueous solution is warmed with a few drops of strong hydrochloric acid .
This reaction has been obtained with very dilute solutions .
In moderately dilute solutions , strongly acidified with hydrochloric acid , a saturated solution of picric acid produces a red precipitate of skatole picrate .
The occurrence of skatole in the vegetable kingdom is of especial interest , and it is remarkable that the substance should make its appearance , or , at any rate , that it should accumulate , at a late period in the growth of the tree .
The absence of indole is also significant .
Sometimes skatole , without indole , is observed to result from the putrefaction of animal proteid , but usually both indole and skatole are formed .
The occasional absence of indole , as well as the inconstancy of the relation between the quantities of indole and skatole formed during proteid putrefaction , has led Salkovvski ( 'Zeits .
fur Physiol. Chem. , ' vol. 8 , p. 417 ) to regard the formation of each of these substances as due to the intervention of a special ferment , which he has called the indole ferment and the skatole ferment respectively .
It must be remembered , however , that indole is less stable than skatole , and would be less likely to survive the effect of the various chemical changes which are proceeding during the later stages of putrefaction .
Hoppe-Seyler ( 'Zeits.fur Physiol. Chem. , vol. 8 , p. 214 ) has shown that if oxygen is freely supplied to a liquid in which proteid putrefaction is taking place , neither indole nor skatole is formed .
The superior stability of skatole may possibly explain its survival in the plant .
It would be interesting to determine whether indole is present in Celtis reticulosa at an earlier stage of its growth , as , foi example , at the period when the skatole first makes its appearance .
It would also be of the highest biological and chemical interest to discover if possible the exact source of the skatole in this plant , to determine whether the vegetable proteid of Geltis can be made to yield skatole by the methods which are known to lead to its production from animal proteid , or whether the skatole has been formed from - some intermediate substance , as , for example , an amidated organic acid .
The synthetical production of skatole from nitrocumic acid furnishes us with a clue to one possible mode of formation in the plant .
This investigation has been conducted in the Research Laboratory of the Pharmaceutical Society , and my thanks are due to Mr. W. A. Salter for the assistance he has given me with some of the experiments which are recorded in this paper .

