An account of some Sanative Waters in Herefordshire .
This account was communicated by Dr. B. in these words .
There are two Springs in Herefordshire , whereof one is within a Bolt , or at least Bow-shoot of the top of the near adjoining lofty Hill of Malvern , and at great distance from the Foot of the Hill ; and hath had a long and old fame for healing of eyes .
When I was for some years molested with Teters on the back of one and sometimes of both my hands , notwithstanding all endeavours of my very friendly and skilful Physicians , I had speedy healing from a neighbouring Spring of far less fame .
Yet this Spring healed very old and Ulcerous sores on the Legs of a poor Fellow , which had been poisoned by Irons in the Gaol , after other Chirurgery had been hopeless .
And by many trials upon my hands , and the Tetters , I was persuaded , that in long droughts , and lasting dry Frosts , those waters were more effectually and more speedily healing , than at other times .
And not to omit this circumstance , I did hold this water in my mouth till it was warm , and perchance somewhat intermingled with fasting Spittle , and so dropping it upon the Teter , I there could see it immediately gather a very thin skin upon the raw flesh , not unlike that which is seen to gather upon Milk over a gentle fire .
This skin would have small holes in it , through which a moisture did issue in small drops , which being wiped away , and the water continued to be dropped warm out of the mouth , the holes would diminish , and at last be all quite healed up .
For the Eye-waters , I conceived them more strongly tersive , and clearing the Eyes ; and they had a rough smartness , as if they carried Sand or Gravel into the Eye .
I have known and tried three or four healing Fountains of late discovery , or of no old fame that I could hear of .
I did once put rich Pearl for some days in a vessel of water , to try whether the water would acquire a healing virtue ; but my Experiments were interrupted .
I had in my thoughts many other ways of Trial ; which I may resume hereafter .

