The reading of a paper , entitled " Experimental Researches in Electricity , 16th Series .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , &amp; c , was resumed and concluded .
On the source of power in the Voltaic pile .
The determination of the real source of electrical power in gal ?
vanic combinations has become , in the present state of our knowledge of electricity , a question of considerable importance , and one which must have great influence on the future progress of that science .
The various opinions which have been entertained by phi ?
losophers on this subject may be classed generally under two heads ; namely , those which assign as the origin of voltaic power the simple contact of dissimilar substances , and more especially of different metals ; and secondly , those which ascribe this force to the exertion of chemical affinities .
The first , or the theory of contact , was devised by Volta , the great discoverer of the Voltaic pile ; and adopted , since it was promulgated by him , by a host of subsequent philoso ?
phers , among the most celebrated of whom may be ranked Pfati ; Marianini , Fichner , Zamboni , Matteucci , Karsten , Bruchardat , and also Davy ; all of them bright stars in the exalted galaxy of science .
The theory of chemical action was first advanced by Fabroni , Wol ?
laston , and Parrot ; and has been since farther developed by Oersted , Becquerel , De la Rive , Ritchie , Pouillet , Schonbein , and others .
The author of the present paper , having examined this question by the evidence afforded by the results of definite electro-chemical action , soon acquired the conviction of the truth of the latter of these theories , and has expressed this opinion in his paper , pub ?
lished in the Philosophical Transactions for 1834 .
The author , after stating the fundamental doctrine laid down by Volta , proceeds to give an account of various modifications in the theory introduced by subsequent philosophers ; and also of different variations in the views of those who , in the main , have adopted the chemical theory .
Being desirous of collecting further and more decisive evidences on this important subject , he engaged in the series of experimental researches which are detailed in the present memoir .
It is assumed , he observes , by the advocates of the contact theory , that although the metals exert powerful electromotive forces at their points of mutual contact , yet in every complete metallic circuit , whatever be the order or arrangement of the metals which compose it , these forces are so exactly balanced as to prevent the existence of any current ; but that , on the other hand , fluid conductors , or electrolytes , either exert no electromotive force at their place of contact with the metals , or , if they do exert such a power , the forces called into play in the complete circuit are not subject to the same law of compensation as obtains with circuits wholly composed of metallic bodies .
The author successfully combats this doctrine , by bringing forward a great number of instances , where certain fluids , which have no chemical action on the metals with which they were associated in the circuit , are in themselves such good conductors of electricity , as to render evident any current which could have arisen from the contact of the metals , either with each other or with the fluid ; the evidence of their possessing this conducting power being their capability of transmitting a feeble thermo-electric current from a pair of plates of antimony and bismuth .
The following he found to be fluids possessing this property in a high degree ; namely , a solution of sulphuret of potassium , yellow anhydrous ni ?
trous acid mixed with nearly an equal volume of water , very strong red nitric acid , and a mixture of one volume of strong acid with two volumes of water .
By employing the solution of sulphuret of po ?
tassium as an electrolyte of good conducting power , but chemically in active with reference to either iron or potassium ; and associating it with these metals in a circuit , formed by two test-glasses containing the solution , into one of which was immersed a plate of pla ?
tina and a plate of iron , and in the other two plates of platina ; and the circuit being completed by wires of the same metals respectively , joining the iron-plate in the first glass with one of the platina-plates in the second , while the other two platina-plates were united by platina wires , interrupted at one part by a short iron wire which joined their ends ; ?it was found by the test of an interposed galvanometer , that , as no chemical action took place , so no electric current was produced ; yet the apparatus thus arranged could transmit a very feeble thermo-electric current , excited by slightly raising the temperature of the wires at either of their points of contact .
Hence , the inference may be drawn , that the contact of iron and platinum is of itself productive of 110 electromotive force .
On the other hand , the author shows , that the interposition in the circuit of the smallest quantity ofan electrolyte , which acts ehemicallyon either of the metals , the arrangement remaining in all other respects the same , is immediately attended with the circulation of an electrical current far more powerful than the thermo-electric current above-mentioned .
A great number of combinations of other metals were successively tried in various ways , and they uniformly gave the same results as that of iron and platina .
Similar experiments were then made with various metallic compounds , and also with other chemical agents ; and in all cases the same general fact was observed ; namely , that when no chemical action took place , no electrical current was excited ; thus furnishing , in the opinion of the author , unanswerable arguments against the truth of the theory of contact .
The only way in which it is possible to explain these phenomena on that theory , would be by assuming , that the same law of compensation as to electro-motive power is observed by the sulphuret of potassium , and the other fluids of corresponding properties , as obtains in the case of the metals , although that law does not apply to the generality of chemical agents ; and in like manner , different assumptions must be made in order to suit the result in each particular combination , and this without any definite relation to the chemical character of the substances themselves ; assumptions , which no ingenuity could ever render consistent with one another .
At the conclusion of the paper , the author describes some remarkable alternations in the phenomena which occur , when pieces of copper and silver , or two pieces of copper , or two of silver , form a circle with the yellow sulphuretted solution ; and which lead to the same conclusion as the former experimeents .
If the metals be copper and silver , the copper is at first positive , and the silver remains untarnished ; in a short time the action ceases , and the silver becomes positive , at the same time combining withi sulphur , and becoming coated with sulphuret of silver ; in the course of a few minutes , the copper again becomes positive ; and thus the action changes from one side to the other in succession , and is accompanied by a corresponding alternation of the electric current .

