326 Sir J. Dewar and Mr. R A. Hadfield .
Effect of [ Nov. 2 observed on the other .
When S represents areas of whole sun-spots of umbrae , the agreement between observed and calculated ranges nearly though not quite as good , especially in horizontal force , as wh\lt ; ; S represents Wolfer 's sun-spot frequencies ; but when S represeiv areas of faculae the agreement is much inferior , especially in years : sun-spot maximum .
The mean differences between the ranges calc* lated from Wolfer 's frequencies , and from either the spot areas or tl umbrae is considerably less than between any one of the three sets \lt ; j calculated ranges and the observed ranges .
Also the difference between the observed ranges and those calculated from Wolferj frequencies nearly always possess the same sign at Kew and Falmoutlj Both phenomena point to the conclusion that the differences bet wee-observed magnetic ranges at individual stations , and those calculate !
from any of the above measures of solar disturbance , though smal !
cannot be regarded as wholly fortuitous .
" The Effect of Liquid Air Temperatures on the Mechanical ancj other Properties of Iron and its Alloys .
" By Sir Jamei Dewar , F.RS .
, Hon. M.I.C.E. , and Kobert Abbott Hadfield M.I.C.E. , President elect Iron and Steel Institute .
Received November 24 , \#151 ; rRead December 8 , 1904 .
As many iron alloys have shown anomalous results in their physical behaviour at ordinary temperatures , it became advisable to ascertain the exact effect of very low temperatures upon such bodies , and , accordingly , a series of tests were carried out on standard iron and iron alloyed with other elements , the specimens being selected from a large collection made by one of the authors , which is located at the Hecla Works , Sheffield .
In the course of the enquiry some 500 specimens have been examined , and the detailed description of each test will appear later on in a special Monograph .
In the meantime the more important results are submitted to the Royal Society .
For the purpose of the experiments , the irons were taken in the form of forged bars , and the iron alloys in the form of cast ingots inches square .
They were then carefully heated to the required forging temperatures and reduced to rods ^-inch diameter , and from these rods finished test-bars 0*180 inch diameter were accurately machined to the following sketch :\#151 ; -060-0*180"----------------------------------------2- oo- - *^\lt ; -\#151 ; O* 60 \#166 ; -\gt ; \#166 ; )04.1 Liquid Air Temperatures on Iron and its Alloys .
327 I iThe bars were then forwarded to the Royal Institution Laboratory , id there tested in a small hydraulic testing machine , similar in ?
lineiple to that described in 'Proceedings of the Royal Institution , fS94 , ' to which the necessary arrangements could be applied for leaking the specimens while immersed in liquid air .
| The present research confirms , iii a larger field , the conclusions set jsrth in the discourse of one of the authors at the Royal Institution 11894 on the " Scientific Uses of Liquid Air , " in which the results | tests on metallic wires and cast metals at low temperatures were liscussed .
The results of the present series of tests corroborate the iference previously drawn , viz. , that all common metals and alloys kcrease in tenacity at low temperatures , and this whether the iuctility increases or decreases , and , further , that the increase of kiacity is solely due to the low temperature , and persists only during m continuance .
f The Results of Low Temperatures on Irons.\#151 ; The first specimen xamined in this class was Swedish charcoal iron , this material in its omposition most nearly approaching that of pure iron .
The analysis \#187 ; f this specimen gave C 0*045 , Si 0*07 , S 0'005 , P 0*004 , Mn race , Fe 99*82 per cent. This iron , after careful annealing , gave 20 tons per square inch tenacity and 20 per cent , elongation at normal temperature ; after cooling in liquid air the tenacity rose to 38 tons , with substantially no elongation .
Another specimen , after being quenched at 950 ' C. and again at 600 ' C. in water , showed \#166 ; similar results in liquid air .
Two other specimens in the unannealed condition and one after special heat treatment , showed similar properties .
Specimens immersed in liquid air and allowed to return to the normal temperature before testing , showed almost exactly the same tenacity and elongation as before cooling , showing that the brittleness is entirely a function of temperature .
Several specimens were then quenched from 600 ' C. , 800 ' C. , and 950 ' C. in liquid air , and allowed to return to the normal temperature before testing .
It might have been expected that with this extraordinary chilling a considerable hardening effect would have been noticed , but singular to say , whilst the tenacity is practically the same in each case , the ductility is improved rather than reduced .
It may be mentioned that the specimens quenched from high temperatures in liquid air remained red hot in the liquid air much longer than would have been expected .
In order to determine the hardness of these Swedish charcoal irons , a series of tests were carried out by the Brinell ball test , which showed that the hardness is increased nearly 200 per cent , by quenching in liquid air .
The specimens , though , no doubt , much stiffer than | at normal temperature , could be readily filed at - 182 ' C. Magnetic ; tests also showed that no marked change takes place at low temperature f as regards this quality .
328 Sir J. Dewar and Mr. R. A. Hadfield .
Effect of [ Rov 2 In order to determine whether there is a critical point where tK abnormal rise in tenacity and loss of ductility occurred f0l specimens were tested at +18 ' C. , - 80 ' C. , - 100 ' C. , and -1930 i respectively .
The results clearly show that there is no critical pH 1 i.e. , gradual decrease in temperature is accompanied by gradual increa* in tenacity .
Other irons tested were L.S.S. Swedish iron , English Bowling , are Cooke iron , all showing increase in tenacity and corresponding deereas in ductility upon quenching in liquid air .
The next class are Iron-Carbon Alloys .
This class is of special interest and importance , as upon the various percentages of carbol present in steel depend chiefly its physical properties .
The specimen ) first dealt with are those in which manganese is absent , or present i only very small quantities .
Test No. 74 ( C 0T4 , Si 0-08 , Mn 0'07 pe cent. ) represents very mild or soft steel ; it enables a comparison to b drawn between the Swedish charcoal iron previously described and soft steel .
In the case of this specimen the tenacity was nearly trebled but it is apparently more ductile than Swedish charcoal iron , J specimen containing ( C 078 per cent. ) showed a considerable rise re tenacity in liquid air , the ductility being reduced to practically nil A specimen of the same material was also submitted to the liquid aii temperature , and allowed to return to normal temperature before testing ; it showed a similar result to the original specimen not s\#171 ; treated .
It may , therefore , be said that the effect produced by liquid air is of a physical and temporary character .
Other specimens , viz. , Nos. 115 ( C 0-83 , Mn 0*25 per cent. ) , 9 ( C 0*85 , Mn 0'32 per cent. ) , 10 ( C 1*09 , Mn 0'32 per cent. ) , 13 ( C T23 , Mn .
074 per cent. ) showed the usual behaviour at liquid air temperature .
Specimens of No. 115 ( C 0*83 per cent. ) were then quenched in liquid air from 700 ' O. and 750 ' C. respectively , and tested at normal temperature .
As with the Swedish charcoal iron , the quenching from these comparatively high points has not produced the effect that might be expected ; in fact , instead of the ductility being reduced , it is now quite considerable , viz. , 13 per cent , from the 700 ' C. and 8 per cent , from the 750 ' C. Specimens of No. 13 ( C 1'23 per cent. ) also showed the same singular effects after quenching from 700 ' C. and 750 ' C. in liquid air .
It is certainly most remarkable that a specimen containing 1J per cent. C. , suddenly lowered 930 ' C. , is so little injured as regards ductility .
If these specimens had been quenched from the same condition in ordinary j water or oil , they would have been unfileable and of extraordinary hardness .
These specimens were as magnetic at - 182 ' C. as at normal f temperature , arid readily fileable .
In connection with this series , specimens were also taken of various iron-carbon alloys in which the Mn percentage was higher than in )04 .
] Liquid Air Temperatures on Iron and its Alloys .
329 le preceding specimens , Test Nos. 110 ( C 0*19 , Mn 0*52 per 5nt0 , 1 ( C 0*20 , Mn ''50 Per cent*)\gt ; 2 ( C ''50 ' Mn 1,00 Per cent*)\gt ; \#166 ; ' f ( C 0*58 , Mn 0*58 per cent. ) , 5 ( C 0 75 , Mn 1-00 per cent. ) , 11 J 1 05 , Mn 0-58 per cent. ) , 12 ( C 1-20 , Mn 0*62 per cent. ) , 31 jj ^-68 , Mn 1 11 per cent. ) .
All these specimens showed the usual , jge in tenacity and fall in ductility , and although Specimen No. 31 { 0f abnormally high carbon , yet this does not appear to have terfered with the ordinary effect of the liquid air treatment .
In the kse of Test No. 1 , after quenching specimens of the same material in [ iquid air from 700 ' C. and 750 ' C. , the same peculiar behaviour was j joticed as previously described , i.e. , considerable increase in ductility .
Having now dealt with the iron-carbon alloys , the various other i iloys may be dealt with :\#151 ; ) Iron and Silicon ) Specimens were tested representing all these Iron and Aluminium j alloys , but the results do not call for any special Iron and Tungsten comment , the usual increase in tenacity and fall Iron and Chromium in ductility being noticeable at low tempera-Ironand Copper J ture .
Iron and Nickel.\#151 ; Specimen No. 45 ( C 0*26 , Ni 0*58 per cent. ) , klthough the liquid air doubles the tenacity , probably owing to the ( ; Dwer carbon and the presence of nickel , the elongation is not reduced o the extent noticed in previous specimens .
This is important , and jives material proof that the brittleness of iron at low temperatures ian be modified by another element , provided the carbon is not wesent in any considerable percentage .
In another specimen No. 46 ) O 014 , Ni T92 per cent. ) , the nickel appears to vigorously assert !
tself , as the ductility at -182 ' C. only decreases from 20\#151 ; 12 per ent .
, the tenacity increasing from 34\#151 ; 59 tons .
In Specimens *os .
49 ( C 0*19 , Ni 3*82 per cent. ) and 50 ( C 0*18 , Ni 11*39 per , ent .
) , the remarkable effect of nickel is noticeable , as , whilst the tenacity rises considerably in both cases , the ductility remains practi-sally unaltered .
The tenacity rose in a further specimen , No. 54 C 0*16 , Ni 24*51 per cent. ) , in which the nickel is very high , irom 90\#151 ; 118 tons at -182 ' C. , the ductility being only reduced a from 12\#151 ; 10 per cent. The specimens were non-magnetic both at normal and at liquid air temperature .
The same material showed *n increase of from 306\#151 ; 524 in hardness under the liquid air treatment .
Iron and Manganese.\#151 ; These form an important class .
The peculiar oalloy of iron and manganese , known as " Manganese Steel , " is non-^ magnetic , and it is possible to produce similar alloys of iron and manganese even when the former element is present in as high a pro-jportion as 87\#151 ; 88 per cent. Excellent results as regards physical ' 'properties can be obtained upon exceeding 1\#163 ; and up to 2\#163 ; per cent. , ( ( provided the carbon is low .
From about 3\#151 ; 7 per cent , the material 330 Sir J. Dewar and Mr. R. A. Hadfield .
Effect of [ Nov. 24 is comparatively brittle , even with low carbon .
Upon exceedin 7 per cent , the material now known as " Era " manganese steel j b formed , and continues up to 17 or 18 per cent. Manganese stee proper is the alloy containing 11\#151 ; 15 per cent , of manganese wit carbon varying from 0'80\#151 ; 1*40 per cent. We will deal first with manganese steels having low carbon , i.e. , unde 0 30 per cent. Test No. 14 ( C 0'08 , Mn 3*50 per cent. ) , the usual rist in tenacity and loss in ductility occurs at -182 ' C. , and on thispecimen being allowed to return to normal temperature it does no appear to be injured in any way .
Samples Nos. 15 , 16 , and 17 ( Mil varying from 5'40\#151 ; 15-28 per cent. ) , which are extremely brittle ai normal temperature , show very little modification at the lovl temperature .
Dealing now with alloys having higher percentages of carbon , severa specimens tested with Mn ranging from 2 23 to 11 '53 per cent , with carbon increasing proportionately from 041\#151 ; 1 *66 per cent , showed normal behaviour at low temperature .
An interesting specimen No. 26 ( C 1*23 , Mn 12'64 per cent. ) was examined , representing i normal " Hadfield 's Era manganese steel .
" At normal temperature this gave 56 tons tenacity , with the high elongation of 30 per cent. , and after immersion in liquid air showed a slight rise in tenacity , the elonga gation , however , falling to 2| per cent. , the low temperature thus entirely de-toughening the material .
This result is somewhat unexpected , as it might have been anticipated that the great ductility of this material at normal temperature would not have been interfered with to any great extent at the low temperature .
In the ordinary treatment of Mn steel for toughening , the sudden drop in tempera ture is about 1000 ' C. , and in the liquid air only 200 ' C. A repetition test , No. 26a , gave a similar result , the tenacity at normal temperature being 65 tons , with 40 per cent , elongation , while at -182 ' C. the ductility dropped to nil , the tenacity remaining the same , viz. , 64 tons.* Similar specimens of this steel cooled down and allowed to return to normal temperature again exhibited the usual extraordinary toughness of the material , thus showing that the de-toughening or embrittling action is only temporary , as with the Swedish charcoal iron and ordinary steel specimens .
It is certainly curious to find that a specimen of steel , which only a few moments before would break in the easiest manner , can again be bent double .
This is produced by a change in temperature conditions of about 200 ' C. These results also show that manganese steel , notwithstanding its many peculiarities , in this ; respect falls into line with and is subject to the same laws as iron # It is very extraordinary that the metal iron , no matter what its treatment , !
never beoomes so ductile as the treated and quenched manganese steel\#151 ; mainly composed of iron\#151 ; with an original ductility of 40 per cent. I904f } Liquid Air Temperatures on Iron and its Alloys .
331 I I , land ordinary steels .
It is therefore all the more curious that the iron-nickel-manganese alloy ( 1414b ) described later , entirely differs in I this respect , where the effect of low temperature is not only nil , but ithere is a positive increase in ductility .
The ball tests on specimen 'No .
26 shows an increase in hardness at \#151 ; 182 ' C. of 70 per cent. , viz. , from 205 to 372 .
Three other specimens , Nos. 26 E , F , and G are also interesting as showing the effect of| quenching upon Mn steel , from temperatures of 605 ' , 800 ' , and 950 ' O. in liquid air , the tests being then carried out at normal temperatures .
The specimens : E and F give similar results to those that would be obtained by quenching in ordinary cold water at 600 ' and 800 ' C. , i.e. , little or no increase in ductility .
On the other hand , in specimen 26 G , quenched from 950 ' C. , there is no doubt the result obtained , 66 tons tenacity with 38 per cent , elongation , is excellent , but it is not any better than can be obtained by quenching in water at 15 ' C. It is important to here mention that the three specimens E , F , G , were all non-magnetic at \#151 ; 182 ' C. , showing that there is no change in the magnetic properties of manganese steel at low temperatures .
This experiment finally settles quite a number of misunderstandings in metallurgical literature which have arisen on this subject , namely , that at no range of increase or decrease in temperature ( provided this is not , as regards high temperature , sustained for any length of time ) does any marked change in magnetic property occur in manganese steel .
The effect of low temperature on Iron alloyed with Two other Main Elements .
Taking first the alloys of Iron , Nickel , and Chromium .
Tests Nos. 78 ( C 0-25 , Cr 064 , Ni 2-67 per cent. ) and 81 ( C 0'89 , Cr 2-00 , Ni 1*92 per cent.).\#151 ; In the first- instance in the presence of low carbon the nickel shows jjbs toughening influence , as at - 182 ' C. the tenacity rises from 38 to 61 tons , the elongation only falling from 20\#151 ; 17 per cent. In the latter specimen the effects of the nickel are not so apparent owing to the higher .carbon , but the elongation does not entirely disappear .
Another specimen of this latter material after quenching in oil at 760 ' C. , and then water at 650 ' C. showed an increase in tenacity at \#151 ; 182 ' C. of .from 81\#151 ; 105 tons , the elongation being , however , reduced from per cent , to nil .
The embrittling influence of the carbon is seen in both instances .
In the next specimen , No. 79 ( C 0*31 , .
Or 1-80 , Ni 2-60 per cent. ) , the ductility is not affected , remaining at 15 per cent. .
Notwithstanding the considerable presence of chromium , the nickel asserts itself in this specimen , the tenacity rising from 49\#151 ; 79 tons .
\#166 ; similar result was also noticeable in specimen No. 107 ( C 0-17 , M 1*55 , Ni 3*02 per cent. ) , the tenacity rising to 59 tons , and the -ductility dropping only from 25\#151 ; 20 per cent. Test No. 80 ( C 0*64 , .r ^ ^1 , ^i 12'24 per cent.).\#151 ; In this specimen the very high tenacity at W\#171 ; ie normal temperature ( 115 tons ) does not appear to be affected by the d VOL. LXXIV .
2 c 332 Sir J. Dewar and Mr. E. A. Hadfield .
Effect [ Nov. 24 liquid air , in other words , a steel having high tenacity at normal tenv perature is practically unaffected by liquid air .
Tests were carried out ii liquid air on specimens repre senting these alloys , but th\#171 ; results do not call for am , special comment , in all case* Iron , Nickel , and Silicon Iron , Manganese , and Chromium Iron , Manganese , and Silicon Iron , Chromium , and Aluminium Iron , Chromium , Silicon Iron , Chromium , Copper Iron , Chromium , and Tungsten the specimens behaving in tin normal manner , i.e. , showing , increase in tenacity and del l crease in ductility in liquid air * Iron , Manganese , Copper.\#151 ; Test No , 19 ( 0 0-25 , Mn 2-01 , Cu 1-3SJ per cent. ) shows a remarkable rise in tenacity , the elongation remaining unaffected by the low temperature .
It is remarkable that the copper which is present only to the extent of If per cent. , absolutely neutralises what would be the action of manganese , which clearly produces brittle ness and hardness at low temperatures .
r Tests were carried out or Iron , Cobalt , Manganese , Silicon | specimens representing thest Iron , Chromium , Manganese , Silicon alloys , but the results j Iron Nickel , Manganese , Aluminium not call for any special coirs l ment .
Iron , Nickel , and Manganese.\#151 ; In this class a number of specially interesting results were obtained .
There is . .
an important alloy , !
No. 1109D ( C 0-60 , Mn 5-04 , Ni 14-55 per cent. ) , including twc elements , which , if added separately in the same proportions taj iron , would cause extreme brittleness .
Most singular to say , thr double combination now confers extraordinary toughness .
This alio ) is probably the most ductile form of iron alloy known , in several caM an elongation of no less than 75 per cent , having been obtained* normal temperature .
Taking the first specimen , No. 60 , under liqun air treatment , this material drops in elongation from 70 -26 per cenfc| this remaining ductility even now being very great .
This is Jj specimen met with in which the ductility remains comparative y *8 A further test carried out on the same steel shows a similar resu t. j* may be mentioned that the magnetic qualities of the specimen remainec unchanged at - 182 ' C. 1109d may be termed almost non-magnetic though not so much so as manganese steel .
1109d is muc mJB sensitive to magnetic changes by temperature , though to an or maw magnetic test it appears inert .
\#166 ; ' \ The next specimen , No. 61 ( C 1*00 , Mn 6 05 , Ni 1 Per , shows a further increase in nickel percentage , and this is c ear y factor in preventing loss of ductility at -182 ' 0 .
, the ductih y J decreasing from 57\#151 ; 42 per cent. Another specimen a en , .
904 .
] Liquid Air Temperatures on Iron and its Alloys .
333 jg 1 *18 , Mn 6'05 , Ni 24-30 per cent. ) shows a still further increase in percentage of nickel .
For the first time in this series of tests there is iow met with a specimen in which there is an actual rise in ductility it -182 ' C. The tenacity now rises from 51\#151 ; 84 tons , and the ductility from 60\#151 ; to 67 per cent. This is remarkable .
It is curious ihat the considerable percentage of manganese does not interfere with he toughening of the iron , of which there is 68 per cent. In any case t cannot be claimed that manganese confers this , as it must be remembered that a similar percentage of manganese in an iron alloy containing to nickel shows remarkable .
brittleness either at normal or low temperature .
Nor does an iron alloy containing a similar high percentage af nickel and no manganese show much ductility .
In face of these apparent anomalies it is difficult to offer a satisfactory explanation of she remarkable effects noticed .
A repetition of the above test showed wen more remarkable results , the ductility rising from 42\#151 ; 57 per cent. I The liquid air experiments on this series ( iron , nickel , manganese ) ( ring out in a much clearer manner than any other tests have yet done , the remarkable toughness and ductility of the iron alloys containing 8 per cent. Mn and 14\#151 ; 24 per cent , nickel .
They show what an extraordinary molecular combination has been produced .
In other words , these particular iron alloys have almost non-magnetic properties , possess the highest electrical resistance of any known alloy , and also represent the most ductile iron alloy yet known .
The Concluding Group includes Metals and Miscellaneous Alloys.\#151 ; The first specimen taken in this group was No. 120 forged nickel ( C 0-09 , ; Ni 99-27 per cent. ) , representing an excellent quality of commercial nickel .
This was tested in the forged condition , and in liquid air the tenacity was increased from 29\#151 ; 46 tons , and ductility from 43\#151 ; 51 per cent. This may be considered a remarkable result , and probably explains why in iron-nickel and iron-nickel-manganese alloys the presence of nickel ( provided the carbon is low ) prevents low temperature injuring iron .
It is difficult to explain why this should be so , in view of the similar position of these two elements in the chemical classification of the elements .
Although no absolutely pure specimen of the metal manganese is yet available , that containing about 98 per cent , shows comparative brittleness , and in this respect , therefore , entirely differs from the metal nickel .
This , to some extent , explains why nickel-iron alloys are remarkably tough , but still leaves unsolved why manganese steel , which contains 12 per cent , of Mn , is so extraordinarily tough when alloyed with iron and some carbon , and quenched from high temperatures .
Test No. 131 ( copper 99 per cent. ) shows that whilst the results .
obtained from this metal resemble nickel , the tenacity being increased , it is to a much less degree , the ductility not being materially altered .
2 c 2 334 Sir J. Dewar and Mr. R. A. Hadfield .
Effect of [ Nov. 24 It is curious to find that by chilling down the metals iron , nickel , ant copper to - 182 ' C. their absolute and ultimate\#151 ; if the terms may h. allowed\#151 ; qualities are shown more truly than at the normal tempera ture .
The effects here noticed also explain in a more satisfactory manner than has yet been possible , why nickel is so valuable in nickel iron alloys ; that is , it tends to counteract the constant tendency of the sensitive metal , iron , to become embrittled on the slightest provocation If this research reveals this one important fact , it will have well repaid : the labour .
From the results it would seem to be indicated that copper might btj a useful metal to alloy with iron .
There are , however , difficulties iw the way of this , at any rate as regards forged metal , as copper-iroij alloys 'containing no manganese are considerably red-short , and canno be readily manipulated .
For some reason not yet explained it also does not alloy well with iron , but this may be a question of temperature effect at fusion point .
At any rate , these experiments are suggestive for further research and investigation .
In the case of aluminium , Test No. 113 ( A1 99*50 per cent. ) , the metal shows a remarkable increase in tenacity , viz. , 8 to 15 tons , the elongation being nearly quadrupled , viz. , from 7 to 27 per cent Singularly enough , when alloyed with iron , such increases in both tenacity and ductility are not noticed \ in fact , a contrary effect was produced .
Specimens of cupro-nickel ( Cu 95 , Ni 4'85 per cent. ) and BuH metal showed only slight changes at low temperature , whilst specimens of delta metal and manganese copper showed a rise in tenacity and ductility .
_ Various experiments carried out in connection with this research deal with contraction , electrical properties , micro-structure , magnetic ano brittleness tests , all of which will be included in the special moll graph .
General Conclusions .
It is clear that as regards iron and iron alloys , with , however certain exceptions , the effect of low temperature is to increase remarkable degree their maximum tensile stress , and to reduce thm ductility to practically nothing .
These changes take place to the same extent , and this is very curious in the softest wrought iron , ^ represented by the specimens S.C.I. ( Swedish charcoal iron ) , L.S* ( the famous Swedish melting iron ) , and also English wrought iron , in carbon steel samples from ( HO to 0'20 per cent , to the high percentages , such as 1'25 or 1-50 per cent. Thus , the absence or presence of carbonspecial elements are flljB , That there is no error in he tensile tests , by the facti steel specimens , were sub- in ordinary carbon steel , in which other present , seems to have but little influence , this statement is proved , independently of t that several bars of the S.C.I. , and mild 004 .
] Liquid Air Temperatures on Iron and its Alloys .
335 jitted to the low temperature test , and tested by hammer immediately Iter being immersed .
In all cases they exhibited great brittleness , reeking off instantly upon being struck .
Further confirmation is fjtained by the Brinell hardness ball test , under which test the hardness umber of the S.C.I. increased at - 182 ' C. from 90 to 266 , or about qual to the hardness of 0*80 per cent , carbon steel at normal temperature , fhis almost seems incredible when it is remembered that the S.C.I. Lows by analysis 99'88 per cent , of iron , and has only 20 to 22 tons bnacity , with 25-30 per cent , elongation .
j The importance of the discovery of the toughening effect of nickel ipon iron at low temperatures will be seen when it is understood that hilst it has been well known that nickel in certain percentages ii roduced important improvements in the qualities and properties of .on and steel alloys , no microscopical or chemical research work has et proved why this came about .
It seems clear that these experiments re a long way towards offering a satisfactory explanation .
The experiments prove that the purest iron , as represented by the S.C.I. ( con- \#166 ; iaining 99'82 per cent , iron ) , becomes brittle to an extraordinary degree under the influence of low temperatures , whereas nickel itself , tested aider the same conditions , has improved rather than deteriorated , not \#174 ; lie in tenacity , which iron also does , but in ductility , in which latter quality iron entirely breaks down .
If nickel , therefore , is present in ui iron alloy containing but little carbon , or comparatively low in that iU dement , it acts as a preventive of brittleness , or is a very considerable :\lt ; modifier of that objectionable quality .
It may be interesting to state !
.j that at ordinary temperatures the toughness or ductility of nickel is no \gt ; greater than that of iron .
For example , in comparative tensile tests \#187 ; made on nickel and pure iron , the ductility of iron was greater , i Iron to a more or less degree , at any rate in manufacturing operations , always seems to be endeavouring to wander out of the " paths " of 0 ductility and toughness , and will assume its apparently brittle nature on the slightest provocation .
It would appear therefore that iron , a cheap and convenient metal itself , must be permeated by some element j that will mask or modify its properties .
Until recently carbon was the only element known to modify the properties of iron ; but , as will be seen in this research , this element , where great toughness is required , ' only helps to make matters worse .
Fortunately for iron , however , its \#166 ; close companion nickel acts as a preventive in keeping it from wandering out of the narrow road of .
metallurgical rectitude , that is 1 \lt ; toughness or ductility .
Why this should be so cannot at present be I\#174 ; explained .
Iron is a crystalline metal , whereas nickel appears to be *'1 Iauc^L more amorphous ; it is possible , therefore , that nickel tends to prevent iron crystallizing . .
This action of nickel is remarkable in certain of the alloy specimens , e.g. , No. 114 , which is an alloy of iron , carbon 1-18 per cent. , nickel 24*30 per cent. , and manganese 6*05 per 336 Effect of Liquid Air Temperatures on Iron and its cent. Here the ductility is extraordinary at not only normal but low ' temperatures , probably the highest known for any iron alloy , and certainly for an alloy having such tenacity as 85 tons per square inch .
There is still present in this alloy 68 per cent , of iron , yet the tendency1 of the latter metal to become brittle is not only entirely checked at the low temperature ; but the elongation , already so great , is considerably increased , viz. , from 60 to 67\#163 ; per cent. There is also an increase of tenacity in both cases , viz. , a rise from 10 to 38 per cent. Thus the nickel present causes the bar under high tension , and at - 182 ' C. , to remain far more ductile than the very best ductile iron of one third the !
tenacity .
Although the action of nickel has been specially referred to , ) it must not be overlooked that in this alloy there is also present 6 peri cent , of manganese , which in its ordinary combination with iron , that is with no nickel present , would confer intense brittleness upon the iron and render it more brittle than if not present .
This treble combination of nickel , manganese , and iron , appears to reverse all the known laws of iron alloys .
We have to thank the mechanician of the Davy-Faraday Laboratory , Mr. C. N. Cooke , for able assistance in the conduct of the experiments .

