118 Mr. E. H. Acton .
Assimilation of [ May 16 , Petromyzon appear to have no homology with these larval ganglion cells.* The proof of this statement is impossible without figures .
I hope to show , in a fuller paper on the early development of the central nervous system , that in giaut ganglion cells are developed in deeper portions of the spinal cord , and that these cells have exactly the situation and characters of the well-known giant ganglion cells of Amphioxus.f In the same sections of Scyllium embryos the two sorts of cells can be seen ; the one deeply situated in the cord , and with well developed processes , the other outside the nervous system , and greatly degenerated .
I will here only remark that I cannot support Mayer 's conclusions^ as to the fate of these giant ganglion cells , and defer a discussion of his views until I have followed the history of these cells in Petromyzon .
1 may here point out , however , that KleinenbergS appears to me to have been quite right when he suspected that the cells described by Mayer might be analogous to certain sub-umbrellar ganglion cells in the larva of Lopadorhynchus , which " introduce " the development of the ventral cord : and that , just as in the Annelid , the development of the vertebrate central nervous system would appear to have been initiated by a larval nervous apparatus outside the same .
I propose to discuss this question in a future paper .
Y. " The Assimilation of Carbon by Green Plants from certain Organic Compounds .
" By E. Hamilton Acton , M.A. , Fellow of St. John 's College , Cambridge .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received April 20 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) The recent synthesis of a true glucose ( " Acrose " )|| by Fischer and Tafel , and additions to our knowledge of the structure of dextrose and kevulose by Kiliani , ^[ \amp ; o. , seem to render desirable fresh experiments on the synthetical production of carbohydrate in green plants from sources other than C03 ( i.e. , from organic compounds in which C is already combined with H and 0 ) .
* The homology of the giant ganglion cells described by Fritsch in is doubtful .
f Vide the excellent figure ( fig. 143 ) in Hatschek 's * Lehrbuch der Zoologie , ' p. 138 .
Probably Amphioxus possesses a transient or larval nervous apparatus .
X Op. oit .
, p. 229 .
S N. Kleinenberg : " Die Entstehung des Annelids aus der Larve von Lopadorhynchus .
" ' Zeitschr .
Wiss .
Zool. , ' vol. 44 , pp. 220\#151 ; 221 .
|| * Deutsch .
Ohem .
G-es.- Berichte , ' vol. 20 , pp. 1088 , 2566 , 3384 .
IT Ibid. , vol. 19 , p. 221 .
1889 .
] Carbon by Green Plants from Organic Compounds .
119 Papers have been published by A. Meyer and E. Laurent* dealing with this question .
A. Meyer has shown that the leaves of green plants can form starch when supplied with solutions of glucose , saccharon , mannite , inulin , glycerin .
E. Laurent has confirmed this observation for glycerin .
A. Meyer has shown that starch is not formed from solutions of raffinose , t inosite , erythrite , dulcite , trioxymethylene , aldehyde ( acetic ) ; and WehmerJ that starch is not produced from formic aldehyde or formose .
S The method used by these observers|| is placing leaves which have been deprived of starch by keeping in the dark in solutions of the substances , and testing for starch after a certain interval of exposure to daylight .
I have used " culture " experiments , and in most cases removed the starch at first present in tissues , not by keeping in the dark , but by placing in a receiver , the air of which is completely deprived of C02 by KOH and soda-lime .
Sachs 's method of testing for starch was generally used , but in most cases also supplemented by direct microchemical observations .
The experiments fall mostly under three headings\#151 ; 1 .
Experiments with shoots .
2 .
Experiments with entire plants , the carbon compounds being supplied to the roots .
3 .
Experiments with shoots of " water-plants .
" In all cases the plants or shoots were placed in a " culture liquid " whilst being completely deprived of starch , and then transferred to another portion of the same culture solution to which the carbon compound had been added in known quantity .
The " culture liquid " used was composed as follows :\#151 ; Distilled water 100 grams .
MgCl2 ... ... . .
0-10 " FeS04 ... ... .
0-025 " * * * S KNOa ... C%(P04)s CaS04 . . .
015 gram .
0*05 " 0-05 " * Both in ' Botan. Zeitung , ' 1886 .
Meyer 's paper gives an account of previous work on this subject .
t Details as to constitution of these compounds and their relations to glucoses are given by Tollens , ' Handbuch der Kohlenhydrate , ' Breslau , 1886 .
I 4 Deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
Berichte , ' vol. 20 , p. 2614 .
S Quite recently Fischer and Loew have independently shown that formose is a complex mixture , but that it contains a small quantity of a true glucose\#151 ; probably u acrose .
" Loew states that this polymerisation only occurs with dilute solutions of the aldehyde ( ' Deutsch .
Chem. Ges .
Berichte , ' vol. 22 , 1889 , Nos. 3 , 4 ) .
Compare also on this point Tollens , loc. cit. , p. 250\#151 ; 252 .
|| Vide ' Botan. Zeitung , ' loc. cit. Mr. E. H. Acton .
Assimilation of [ May IB , The shoots or plants in this liquid were placed under a hell-jar , so arranged as to exclude all possibility of entry of C02 from surrounding air during the experiments , but to allow a free circulation between the air in bell-jar and external atmosphere : this is effected by tubes introduced through the india-rubber stopper of bell-jar communicating with the outside through soda-lime U -tubes .
Several capsules of soda-lime and cylinders of strong KOH solution were placed under the bell-jar to absorb any C03 given off by respiration .
In No. 2 , special precautions were taken to prevent any C02 evolved from roots finding its way to the leaves .
In No. 3 , the same result was obtained by the addition of barium acetate to the solution in which the plants were immersed .
The apparatus was less complex in this case .
In all the experiments , provision was made that the air in confined spaces might be in free communication with external atmosphere ( to admit free supply of oxygen ) , but always by passage through soda-lime U-tubes .
The plants used were not selected for any particular reasons beyond the fact that a good supply of them was conveniently at hand during the progress of these experiments .
They were for No. 1 , shoots ( cut branches)\#151 ; Acer pseudo-platanu L. Jtanunculus , L. Tilia EuropeeaL .
Alisma plant ago , L. Phaseolus vulgaris , L. Cheiranthus cheiri , L. Scrophularia L For ( No. 2 ) whole plants , seedling plants of\#151 ; * Acer pseudo-platanu L. Phaseolus mult L. Quercus robur , L. Euphorbia hel L. Phaseolus vulgaris , L. Cheiranthus cheiri , L. Campanula glomerata , L. Epilobium hirsutum , L. For ( No. 3 ) water-plants , shoots of\#151 ; Anacharis alsinastrum , Bab .
Callitriche aquatica , Sm .
Sparganium natans , Bab .
Fontinalis L. Chara vulgaris , L. The substances ( carbon compounds ) used in all cases ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) in some cases also ( 3 ) were acrolein , acrolein-ammonia , acrolein compound with acid sodium sulphite ( NaHS03.C3H40 ) , allyl alcohol , glucose ( partly quantitative ) , acetic aldehyde , aldehyde ( acetic ) ammonia , glycerin , leevulinic acid , calcium lsevulinate , saccharon ( cane-sugar , partly quantitative ) , inulin , * dextrins , soluble starch , glycogen , * The inulin was free from glucoses , but it is doubtful whether it was really pure . .
, - - 1889 .
] Carbon by Green Plants from Organic Compounds .
121 " extract of natural humus , " the " humus-like " product obtained by the action of alkalis on saccharon .
The results of these experiments may be tabulated as follows :\#151 ; Starch is formed when the compound is supplied either directly to the shoots or through the medium of the roots , with glucose , saccharon , glycerin , * inulin.f ( A. Meyer 's observation for " supplied to shoots .
" ) Starch formed when compound is supplied directly to the leaves , but not when supplied to the roots , with " soluble starch .
" Starch formed when compound is supplied to the roots , but not when directly supplied to the leaves , with " extract of natural humus .
" Starch not formed at all from acrolein , acrolein-ammonia , compound of acrolein with NaHS03 , allyl alcohol , aldehyde , aldehyde-ammonia , dextrin , glycogen , ltevuiinic acid , calcium lsevulinate , " artificial humus substance .
" That glucose is more readily taken up by the roots of plants from O'5 per cent , solution than saccharon .
That the roots of plants can withdraw all the glucose from a 1 per cent , solution if they be left in the solution for a sufficient length of time , and the plants remain healthy .
The conclusions I should draw from these experiments are : That green plants cannot normally obtain carbon for assimilation from organic substances except carbohydrates or closely related bodies , not from aldehydes or their derivatives , and not even from all carbohydrates .
That a compound may be a source of carbon when supplied to the leaves but not when supplied to the roots , and vice versa .
That green plants , owing to the normal process of obtaining carbon being from C02 , have , to a large extent , lost the power of using organic compounds as a source of carbon .
( Parasitic and saprophytic plants , especially fungi , undoubtedly do always obtain their carbon from complex organic compounds .
) That many ( ?
all ) green plants behave in the same manner towards the substances enumerated as regards formation or non-formation of starch .
( Contrast in this respect with fungi , which are often characterised by decomposing special substances .
) That if a single substance of an aldehydic or ketonic nature is formed by plants as an intermediate product between C02 and H20 and glucose ( or starch ) , it can only be polymerised by the plant under special conditions , probably at the moment of formation .
* When glycerin was supplied to the roots in solutions stronger tlian 10 per cent , starch was not found .
f Vide note above .

