II .
" On the Sudden Squalls of 30th October and 21st November 1863 .
" By BALFOuUR STEWART , M.A. , 1F.R.S .
, Superintendent of the Kew Observatory .
Received December 10 , 1863 .
The 30th of October was windy throughout , and in the afternoon there was a very violenit squall .
The barograph at the Kew Observatory , as will be seen from Plate 1 .
which accompanies this communication , records a very rapid fall in the pressure of the atmosphere , which appears to have reached its lowest point about 3h 9 ' P.m. , G. M. T. At this moment , from some cause , possibly a very violent gust of wind , the gas-lights in the room which contairned the barograph went out , and were again lit in a quarter of an hour .
During this interval the barometer bad risen conisiderably ; and indeed the barograph curve , although unfortunately incomplete , presents the appearance of any extremely rapid rise .
It may therefore perhaps be supposed that there was a very sudden increase of pressure accompanied with a violent gust of wind at the moment when the gas went out , which would be about 3h 9gm P.M. , as above stated .
In a paper communicated to the Royal Society on November 23 , Mr. Glaisher has remarked that at Greenwich the time of maxirmum depression of the barometer was 3h 30 ' P.M. , while at the Radcliffe Observatory , Oxford , it was 2h 30m P.M. This would indicate a progress of the storm from west to east , in accordance with which Kew should be somewhat before Greenwich as regards the time of maximum depression .
This anticipation is therefore confirmed by the record of the Kew barograph which has been given above .
The indications of the Kew self-recording electrometer during this squiall show that about 2h 39m P.M. the electricity of the air , which before that time had been very slightly negative , became rapidly positive , then quickly crossed to negative , became positive again , and once more crossed to negative about 3h 3m P.M. recrossing again from strong negative about 3h 5lm P.M. , after which it settled down into soomewhat strong positive .
It is well , however , to state ( what may also be seen from Plate I. ) that the variationls of this instrument between 3 ] 3m P.M. and .
3h 51m P.M. were so rapid as not to be well impressed upon the paper .
At Kew there is often occasion to move the dome , so that we cannot well have an instrument which records continuously the direction of the wind ; but we have a Robinson 's anemometer , which records the space traversed by the wind , and thus enables us to find its velocity from hour to hour , though not perhaps from moment to moment .
A reference to Plate I. will show an increase in the average velocity of the wind during this squall .
A somewhat similar squall took place in the afternoon of Saturday , November 21st , about 4 o'clock .
In this case the Kew barograph presents a rapid ( and , in the curve , ragged ) fall of the atmospheric pressure , which reached its minimum about 4h 45m P.M. There was then a very abrupt and nearly perpendicular rise of about five hundredths of anl inch of pressure , or rather less , after which the rise still went on , but only more gradually .
Through the kindness of the Rev. R. Main , of the Radcliffe Observatory , I have been favoured with a copy of the trace afforded by the Oxford barograph during this squall , in which there appears a very sudden rise of nearly the same extent as that at Kew , but which took place about four o'clock , and therefore , as on the previous occasion , somewhat sooner than at Kew .
This change of pressure at Oxford was accompanied by a very rapid fall of temperature of about 8 ?
Fahr. The minimum atmospheric pressure at Kew was 29 52 inches , while at Oxford it was 29 28 inches .
It will be seen from the Plate that at Kew the electricity of the air fell rapidly from positive to negative about 4h 30m P.M. , and afterwards fluctuated a good deal , remaining , however , generally negative intil 5h 22m P.M. , when it rose rapidly to positive .
We see also from the Plate that there was an increase in the average velocity of the wind at Kew during the continuance of this squLall .
To conclude , it would appear that in these two squalls there was in both cases an exceedingly rapid rise of the barometer from its minimum both at Oxford and at Kew , this taking place somewhat sooner at the former place than at the latter ; and that in both cases the air at Kew remained negatively electrified during the continuance of the squall , while the average velocity of the wind was also somewhat increased .

