141 jg87 .
] A Thermal Telephone Transmitter .
prominent in extra-tropical cyclones , where the rotational energy is moderate , and the translational velocity great .
The first set of characteristics may conveniently he classed together as the rotational ; the second set as the translational phenomena of a cyclone .
Tropical and extra-tropical cyclones are identical in general character , but differ in certain details , due to latitude , surrounding pressure , and to the relative intensity of rotation or translation .
III .
" A Thermal Telephone Transmitter .
" By Prof. George Forbes .
Communicated by Lord Rayleigh , D.C.L. , Sec. R.S. Received February 12 , 1837 .
" We have had so much evidence of the sensitiveness of the Bell telephone receiver to the minutest changes of current , that we have ceased to be surprised at any transmitter which responds to the sounds of articulate speech .
But , in the instrument now shown , it was so extremely unlikely that sensible variations of current could be produced with sufficient rapidity , that even now there is perhaps some interest attached to the experiment .
A wooden cylinder was used closed at one end .
A saw cut was made across the diameter of the closed end , making a fine slit .
In the slit was stretched a platinum wire , O'OOl inch diameter and 2 inches long , with its ends connected by copper wires through the primary of an induction coil to a battery sufficiently powerful to make the platinum wire red hot .
On connecting the secondary circuit with a receiving telephone in a distant room and speaking into the wooden cylinder , the words are reproduced and heard in the telephone .
Each vibration of air in the slit cools the platinum wire , diminishing its electrical resistance , and increasing the electric current .
The words transmitted are not quite perfect , the higher harmonics being wanting .
It requires some attention to make out all the words of a sentence .
A brass cylinder instead of the wooden one , and a Wollaston platinum wire of excessive fineness have been used without materially altering the clearness of the articulation .
Platinum foil has hitherto given no sound of the voice .
The slit in the brass instrument is made of glass to prevent the short-circuiting and destruction of the platinum wire .
Wires from one to three inches in length have been used .
The longest ones are best .
No distinct articulation is heard if the wire be not red hot .
The hotter the wire the better is the articulation .
An adjustable slit was tried and the-narrow slit gave the best results .
Mr. Preeee some years ago used the expansion and contraction of a fine platinum wire to act on a diaphragm , and so serve Presents .
[ Feb. 24 , as a receiver .
The articulation seems to have been about the same in quality as when the new transmitter is used with a Bell receiver .
These new experiments bear out all that Mr. Preece said about the rapidity of variation of temperature which can be produced in a fine platinum wire .
They may also be perhaps of some interest from other points of view ; but they are not likely to lead to any results of practical importance .
It is probable from the theory of the instrument that the tones are raised an octave , as is also the case in the Preece receiver .
Presents , February 24 , 1887 .
Transactions .
Baltimore : \#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Studies .
Historical and Political Science .
Fifth Series .
Ho. 3 .
8vo .
Baltimore 1887 ; 11th Annual Report .
8vo .
Baltimore 1886 .
The University .
Berlin Physikalische Gesellschaft .
Fortschritte der Physik im Jahre 1879 .
Jahrg .
XXXV .
8vo .
Berlin 1885-86 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass .
Harvard College .
Annual Reports , 1885-86 .
8vo .
Cambridge , Mass .
1887 .
The College .
Delft:\#151 ; Ecole Polytechnique .
Annals .
Tome II .
Livr .
3-4 .
4to .
Leide 1886 .
The School .
Gottingen:\#151 ; Konigl .
Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften .
Uachrichten .
1886 .
Hro .
1-20 .
8vo .
Gottingen .
The Society .
Heidelberg :\#151 ; Haturhistorisch-Medicinischer Verein .
Yerhand-lungen .
Band III .
Heft 3 .
8vo .
1884 .
The Association .
University .
Almanacli .
1886 .
12mo .
Heidelberg ; Inaugural-Dissertationen , \amp ; c. , 1886 .
8vo .
Heidelberg , \amp ; c. ; Urkundenbuch der Universitat Heidelberg .
2 Yols .
Large 8vo .
Heidelberg 1886 ; Die Alteste Zeit der Universitat Heidelberg 1386-1449 .
8vo .
Heidelberg 1886 ; Festrede sir Funfhundertjahrigen Jubelfeier .
4to .
Heidelberg 1886 ; Festschrift der Badischen Gymnasien .
4to .
Karlsruhe 1886 ; Beitrage zu einer Biogra-phie Ottheinrichs ( Festschrift ) .
4to .
1886 ; Ueber die Lehenbiicher der Kurfursten und Pfalzgrafen Friedrich I. und Ludwig V. 4to .
Karlsruhe 1886 ; Ruperto-Carola : illustrirte Fest-Chronik der Y. Sacularfeier der Universitat Heidelberg .
Folio .
Heidelberg 1886 .
The University .
Liege:\#151 ; Societe Royale des Sciences .
Memoires .
Ser. II .
Tome 13 .
8vo .
Bruxelles 1886 .
The Society .
London :\#151 ; General Medical Council .
Third Report of the Statistical Committee .
8vo .
London 1886 .
The Council .

