173 III .
" Some Remarks on the Physiological Action of the Tanyhinia venenifera .
" By Professors A. KOLLIKER of Wiirzburg , and E. PELIKAN of St. Petersburgh .
Communicated by Sir B. C. BRODIE , Bart. Received March 1 , 1858 .
The famous poison-tree of Madagascar was described for the first time by Aubert du Petit Thouars in his 'Genera Madagascarensia , ' under the name of Tanghinia venenifera .
At a later period , Sir W. Hooker published a good description , with a figure of this tree , named by him Cerbera Tanghin ( see Botanical Magazine , pl. 2968 ) , so that nothing is wanted with regard to the botanical knowledge of this plant .
On the other hand , the physiological effects of its poisonous parts have not been hitherto investigated .
All we know is , that the fruit of the Tanghinia is a strong poison , and is used in Madagascar as an ordeal poison in the most strange and revolting way .
The only experiment on animals made by Ollivier , showed that 12 grains kill a dog in some hours , but this experiment gave no further insight into the real action of the Tanghinia .
We hope , therefore , that the Royal Society will take some interest in the experiments which we undertook with this poison , of which the following is a short abstract .
The poison used by us was the alcoholic extract of the leaves and small stems of the Tanghinia , prepared from dried specimens , which Prof. Pelikan had received from Count Seyderitz of Mecklenburg .
About one centigram of this extract was sufficient to show the full effect of the poison on frogs , when introduced into a wound of the back .
It acted also when given by the mouth , but in this case a somewhat larger dose was required to produce a full effect .
The observed symptoms were the following:-1 .
First of all , viz. in about 5 to 15 minutes , the heart was affected and stopped in its action , in such a way that the ventricle became contracted and very small , whilst the auricles remained dilated , but were also paralysed .
2 .
The voluntary and reflex movements were at first not at all affected ; but some time-from half an hour to one hour--after the paralysis of the heart , they became weaker and weaker , and gradually ceased totally without any sign of spasms or tetanus .
YOL .
LX .
174 3 .
In the third place the Tanghinia has a great influence upon the voluntary muscles , which become paralysed .
This action begins very soon , and we have been able to show , with the aid of the myographion of Volkman , that as soon as the heart is paralysed , the muscles also begin to lose their force .
Nevertheless , the total paralysis of these organs is not observed till after six hours and more , that is to say , when the muscles have been preserved in a temperature of 14 ?
to 16 ?
R. In a temperature of 4 ?
to 6 ?
R. , the irritability of the poisoned muscles may last for double this time , as is usual with all poisoned muscles and nerves ; but even in this case it disappears long before that of the non-affected muscles .
4 .
If muscles which have lost their irritability through the Tanghinia are put into a solution of common salt of from to I per cent. , their power of contraction reappears after a certain time , but only when they have been preserved at the lower temperature of 5 ?
to 6 ?
R. 5 .
Lastly , the nerves also are paralysed by the Tanghinia , and , as far as we were able to pursue this question , under the same circumstances as the muscles , only perhaps a little earlier .
From all this it follows that the Tanghinia is a paralysing , and above all , a muscular poison .
As far as we have been able to follow its action , it resembles very much the Upas Antiar , only its power would seem to be a little less strong .
Professor Stokes drew the attention of the Meeting to some photographic specimens illustrative of the recent researches of M. Niepce de Saint Victor on " a New Action of Light " ( Comptes Rendus , March I and 8 ) .
They were presented to the Society by the author through Mr. Grove , F.R.S.

