II .
" Completion of the Preliminary Survey of Spitzbergen , under .
taken by the Swedish Government with the view of ascertaining the practicability of the Measurement of an Arc of the Meridian .
" In a letter addressed to Major-General SABINE by Captain C. SKOGMAN , of the Royal Swedish Navy : dated Stockholm , Nov. 21 , 1864 .
Communicated by the President .
Received December 15 , 1864 .
" On the receipt of your letter of the 12th of November , I started immediately in quest of Professor Nordenskjold , to obtaini from him the materials for the fulfilment of your wishes in respect to the Spitzbergen Expedition .
The Professor , with his usual obliging frankness , at once complied with my request , and communicated to me the Miinutes from which I have compiled the subjoined brief Report of his proceedings .
You must excuse the hasty manner in which the Report itself , as well as the accompanying map , has been put together , as time presses if my letter has to reach you before your Anniversary on the 30th .
The map has no pretensions to exactness , but must be viewed merely in the light of a dia gram to show the extent and shape of the triangles , which may also have to undergo future minor modifications .
" Report on the Swedish Expedition to Spitzbergen in 1864 .
" During the expedition of 1861 several attempts were made to penetrate into the Storfjord , or Wide Jaws Water ; but from ice and calms ( the Expedition not being provided with a steamer ) they all proved ineffectual , As it was evident , however , that the firth in question is , beyond comparison , the best locality in the island for carrying on the measurement of an arc of the meridian , provided otnly that it is accessible to vessels , it was resolved that a fresh attempt shoutld be made ; and the Estates of the Kingdom having liberally granted the necessary means , another Expedition was fitted out , though on a smaller scale than that of 1861 .
Mr. Chydenius , who in 1861 had been particularly occupied in selecting and determining the stations for the Survey , unfortunately died in the beginning of 1864 .
His place has been supplied by Professor Nordenskjold of the Academy of Sciences at Stockholm , and Mr. Dune'r , Professor of Astronomy in the University of Lund , both having been in the Expedition of 1861 .
" A small vessel having been chartered at Tromsoe in Norway , they started in the first days of June , and made Bear Island on the 17th , having been detained by gales and adverse winds .
Shortly afterwards they reached the opening of the Storfjord ; and there appeared to be a good chance of getting in ; but the ice soon packed , and , after several ineffectual attempts to force the vessel through , they had to bear up to the westernl side of Spitzbergen .
On June 23rd they were off Bell Sound , but ice and calms prevented their getting in .
On June the 25th they anchored at Safe Haven in Ice Sound .
Here they remained shut in by the ice unitil July 16th , making the best use they could of their time by examining the greater part of the Sound , which was found to be considerably larger in extent than is laid down in the eharts .
Having got out , and returning to the southward , they were met by a Iheavy southerly gale , which obliged them to run for Bell Sound , where they were detained until July 27th , meanwhile completing the survey of the coasts of that Sound .
Being againi delayed by head-winds and calms , they did not reach South Cape unitil August the X7th , and on the 9th had succeeded in getting past the Thousand Islands to Whalers ' Point , close to which is one of the southernimost stations within the firth* [ marked v on the Map , from which , at a height of 1lI00 feet , the summits of the three stations , w , r , and p , were seen against the sky ] .
On the 10th they reached Foul Point , on the opposite land [ where a mountain , 1600 feet high ( r ) , was ascended , from which the summits v , p , X , and o were seen projected against the sky , with the exception of o , which was backed by land ] .
On the 16th the third Thoc./ RySoa .
nhXIFTh &amp; i. ' **~~cP WI ?
..Land , r~~~~~~~~~ or *ksg Sop .
1I 17 7 0_ _____ 6o ; , aazp~~~~~~~giwa &amp; &amp; &amp; 4 station , p , was visited [ and , from a height of 1100 feet , the summits v , r , a , 4 , and 7r were observed projected against the sky , and o against other mountains ] .
On the 21st , after having ridden out a heavy gale , they succeeded in climbing Mount Walrus [ marked 7r ] , a mountain 1100 feet hiigh , surrounded by glaciers , and laid down as an island on the existing charts .
[ From this mountain the station marked X in Mr. Chydenius 's map ( Royal Societv Proceedings , vol. xii .
Plate IV .
) was seen .
] " Proceeding in the boats they reached , on the 22nd , and ascended a mountain 2500 feet high , situated near the channel which joins the Storfjord with the southern opening of Hinlopen Straits .
This was named White Mountain [ and is marked v on the Map ] .
From this summit they saw on a clear bright day the South Cape of North-east Land ( , u ) , Mount L6ven about the middle of Hinlopen Straits on the west shore , and the station marked # on the eastern shore .
Having thus ascertained satisfactory points in the Storfjord , they proceeded again to the west coast of Spitzbergen , with the intention of pushing to the northward as far as possible , but had not proceeded far when they fell in with several boats with the crews of wrecked sealing vessels .
Of course they were obliged to take these men on board ; and being short of provisions for the increased number of hands , and the season drawing towards its close , they put back to Tromsoe .
The sealing vessels had been wrecked on the east side of North-East Land , having got there by the north of the island .
The men had afterwards made their way in the boats through Hinlopen Straits , having thus circumnav-igated North-East Land-a feat said never to .
have been accomplished before .
" The shores of the Storfjord are mountainous .
The glens and valleys between the ridges are for the most part filled by glaciers , especially on the western shore .
The mountains average from 1000 to 1500 feet in height , and belong in general to the Jura formation , which is .
here and there broken ugh by basaltic rocks ( hyperite ) .
In the Jura have been found skeletons , though not complete , of an Ichthyosaurms , closely resembling , the species found in Arctic America by Sir Edward Belcher 's Expedition .
Mr. Malmgoren , of the tJniversity of Helsingfors in Finland , accompanied the Expedition in the capacity of zoologist .
"

