]\gt ; the onter air during the experiment or the subsequent analysis , or ( iii ) be case tutation process detion o the above authors appear to show that : because tases oution aubsequent analysis o the ases .
( ii ) The gases did llot enter from the outer air , because similar effects were btain e the tube was jacketed by another tube , the space between the two evacuated .
Sometimes , also .
only helium was obtained , whereas neon would be expected if air had leaked in .
( iii ) gas was not formed by some change at the electrodes , as similar effects were obtained ( though to a lesser extent ) by means of an electrodeless discharge .
The result of the work indicated , then , that the hydrogen ( or possibly the glass tube ) had in some way been affected by the discharge , so as to obtain helium or neon .
It is noteworthy that positive results of the production of He or No are only sometimes obtained .
J. J. Thomson .
had noticed that helium lines were always very marked in the positive ray spectrum produced the } ) ombardlnent of metallic substances by cathode is , when only pure hydrogen had been allowed to enter the tube .
He favoured the view that the metallic electrodes were responsible for the production of the helium , and that it might have been formed by slow radioactive processes and only liberated by the cathodic bombardment .
Subsequently the Hon. R. Chem. Trans. ; and ' Chem. Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 29 , p. 217 ( 1913 ) .
neon ( trutt mshort investigation obtained nisch and the residual by means of cooled charcoal ) .
He held that the gases could not be safely transferred by means of small inverted tubes over mercury , without the possibility of a trace of air entering the process : and this led him to construct an apparatus which was entire ] self-contained , and by means of which all external transference the tube to the analysis atus w entirely avoided .
The work of these investigators has not , therefore , led to similar results , and the following questions present themselves :Firstly , were the electrical conditions of Strutt 's experiments unfavourable to the formation of rare rases ?
Secondly , was the method of analysis less irdly , is it possible to prevent access of air into the apparatus during the experiment and analysis , and to entirely free the electrodes of all detectable traces of rare gases ?
In the work to be described , which was carried out in continuation of some other work along similar lines , special attention has been paid to these points : the electrical conditions were varied considerably by altering the apparatus and the shape of the tubes ; the method of analysis was made as sensitive as possible and blank tests were frequently applied .
The result , unfortunately , has not thrown any light on the production of the rare gases , as these gases were not obtained when the tube and electrodes had been evacuated as far as possible , and when there was no detectable leakage of air in the apparatus .
Experimental .
In continuation of some former work the depicted was built .
It has been found that when the gases were pumped out of the lube and transferred by means .
small tubes to the analysing burettes , as often as not , traces of argon could be detected .
This argon was traced to some mercury ; by means of tube , this difficulty was overcome and the gases could be directly and completely into the analysing burette from the discharge tube without coming into contact with ercury , which stands in the presence of air .
The presence of about of cu .
mm. of air can be detected by the argon .
The nitrogen is often not found unless larger quantities of air are present , as ozone is formed during the analysis and combines with the nitrogen and mercury ; phosphorus , too , absorbs 'Roy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 89 , p. 499 ( 1914 ) .
a small cup of liquid air , and the discharge is passed ; water and ozone are formed and a high vacuum is obtained ozone partly condensing and partly combining with the mercury ) .
The tube and the mercury are then warmed and absorbed by opening to the phosphorus or charcoal .
Sometimes Analysis of Gases after Passage of Electric .
183 a small quantity of oxygen and carbon oxides remain unabsorbed , t , hese disappear on passing the discharge the capillary jacketed by liquid air , owing to the formation of ozone ; any small residual quantities of nitrogen or of hydrogen also disappear to this .
In order to be sure that none of the rare ases are hidden , the mercury is warmed , the process of analysis repeated .
and the spectrum of the residual ases carefully examined .
In the final experiment the hydrogen and were sparked at ordinary pressure by means of two platinum wires sealed in the burette .
The following experiments are some of those that have been made with this apparatus:\mdash ; ( a ) The discharge tube was a cylindrical tube with two disc electrodes placed opposite each other .
A 6-inch coil with hammer break was used .
Gas analysed by phosphorus\mdash ; No No or He found .
( b ) Another similar tube .
A 9-inch coil with a long spring hanumer break .
Gas analysed by phosphorus\mdash ; No , no He , no No found .
( c ) A similar tube but with both anti-cathode and anode .
A large -inch coil , Caldwell electrolytic break , plate and point rectifier in the circuit .
Gas analysed similarly\mdash ; Trace , no No , no He .
( This merest trace of argon came from the oxygen used.for the analysis .
) ( d ) A tube with spiral aluminium wire as cathode , anode in a small side bulb connected with the narrow tube , the tube acting in some measure as a rectifier .
A 20-inch coil , electrolytic break and rectifier , also a 9-inch coil and two types of hammer break .
Analysed by No or He ( experiment lasted lours ) .
( e ) A tube with two platinunl electrodes 12 cm .
by mm. in two lass bulbs ( 4 cm .
) connected by a narrow tube .
Gas analysed by charcoal:\mdash ; 1 .
A 9-inch coil , hammer breaks and rectifier\mdash ; No No or He .
2 .
A 20-inch coil , hammer break in No or He .
3 .
A 20-inch coil , electrolytic break and rectifier\mdash ; No No or He .
In this experiment there was much " " .
\ldquo ; from the cathode ; in the last part of the experiment the cathode was olten red hot .
( f ) Similar tube , aluminium anodes , platinum cathodes .
-inch coil , electrolytic break and rectifier .
Very much ' splashing Gas analysed by charcoal\mdash ; No No or He .
( g ) Spectrum-shaped tube ; palladium rod anode , palladium plate cathodes , a 9-inch coil and a hammer break .
There was so much ' splashing\ldquo ; that a larger coil could not be used .
Gas analysed by charcoal\mdash ; No No or He .
( h ) One cubic centimetre was pumped out of a llontgen tube , through which the heaviest obtainable unidirectional discharge had been passed for 2 .
A20-inch coil , electrolytic break and rectifier ( five hours , cathode that its presence was doubtful .
iven oathode Tashed outwas ranode wtogether arWIn aents theated a with pure hydrogen .
The duration of each experiment was about eight : hours , unless otherwise stated .
At a certain of exhaustion the hydrogen is shot very easily into walls of the tube , provided the latter does not become too hot or the vacuum too low .
Charges of hydrogen are let in , when necessary , from the place between the two taps provided for that purpose .
amount of absorbed by the walls appears to depend on the temperature , the shape of the tube , the pressure of the gas , and the potential of the cathode during exhaustion .
A long time is equired to entirely rid the walls and electrodes of gases ; if a stronger cathode discharge is passed through the tube it is generally possible to tain more gas ( hydrogen and a little oxygen ) .
However , with small tubes and many washes with pure hydrogen , it is certainly quite possible to get rid of all detectable traces of air .
Once , when a minute leak was present , it was noticed that the spectrum of nitrogen was not given for some minutes , but only that of oxygen ; the tube had dium electrodes .
It would seem that very small quantities of nitrogen had been made active , and were absorbed by metal deposited on the walls of the tube .
of Experiments.\mdash ; In the above experiments electric has been passed with three different sized coils , three different types of interrupters , tJrrough various sized and shaped tubes , with palladium , platinum , !
osed ihang eectrodes oarious shapes ayses oarried ovaysIt wnteresti and to calculate approximately the amount of that would be needed .
In the first place , suppose one assumes an association process , and let the helium be formed from a certain quantity of .
It is a consequence of relativity theory that the variation of the mass of a is connected with the variation of the internal energy by the , where is the square of the velocity of , and the last term merely depends on the movement of the system relative to the observer , and can be ected in this case .
* ergs per gramme-molecule of ] ) elium formed , ergs per atom of helium .
1/ 100 .
mm. of helium formed ( a detectable quantity ) would therefore need elgs .
An induction coil certainly might supply this total energy in am hour , but there are two important considerations .
First , the energy is only conveyed in the form of charged particles , and there can hardly be particles possessing energy of the order of ergs within a discharge tube ; the energy of the hydrogen ion in the dark space being of order ergs , and that of the cathode particles on the average ergs , ( a cathode particle would have to move in.a field of over 30 million volts to possess ergs ) .
Many particles would therefore have to act simultaneously or their effects be additive ; this would increase enormously the time required to produce a detectable quantity of helium .
The second consideration is that four hydrogen atoms or possibly two hydrogen lnolecules must lneet in order to form helium , and the energy must either be supplied at the moment of encounter , or they must be altered previously in such a way that they will associate on encounter and form helium .
It is possible to calculate the probability of the occurrence of such a collision .
'Jahrb .
der Radioakt p. 636 1912 ) .
Mr. A. C. G. Egerton .
of two or ?
in a time is where is the duration of the collision , the time between two ] But , to kinetic theory , ' the diameter of an atom , pressure , 11 number of atoms per unit volume at normal pressure and temperature , mean velocity ; and where is the fraction of the diameter to which distance the atoms interrate ; will be a maximum when in molecules per cubic centimetre , mm. , cm .
, The frequency of collision is , ?
times per second .
The number of atoms per centimetre at 1 .
pressure is atoms .
total number of collisions in a tube of 100 .
is per second The probability that during a collision lasting secs .
( at the colliding atoms will be struck other ato1ns is or for a i.ourfold collision ; and the number of collisions per second in a tube of 100 .
will become per sec. That helium can be produced by a fourfold collision of hydrogen atoms .
* J. H. Jeans , 'Dynamic Theory of Gases , ' p. 205 .
ains troduced fheAnalysis o see what those conditions in an electric discharge tube could be , other than the effect of an electron upon them .
So it is necessary to calculate the chance of a collision of a cathode particle with the molecules of hydrogen .
The probability of an electron colliding with an atom or molecule would be where number of times an electron collides with an atom per second .
where current in anlperes , distance between electrodes , free path of electrons , number of atoms in discharge tube .
The maximum value of is , where velocity of electrons , diameter of atom .
But , potential between electrodes in E.S. units .
But and , where is volume ; therefore Putting milliampere .
cm .
, mm. , volts , The probability that an electron should strike a simple collision of two hydrogen molecules , which lasts secs .
, is therefore , or as collisions take place per second , atoms of helium might be formed per second , which would mean a detectable quantity in about 6 years .
Thus even a collision of an electron with two in the gases within discharge tube , unless the conditions within a tube are very different what are taken to be and are such as to increase enormously the nulnber of collisions of electrons , atoms , ions or molecules .
This result is arrived at both from considerations of the energy needed to effect a change and also from considerations of the possible a Vexed , let some disi eration process be could the helium be formed by the ration of the metallic electrodes or of the oxygen , silica , and other constituents of the glass or oxygen , the discharge tube The atomic weight of llercury is and if the atoms were entirely split up into helium atoms , energy of order of 10 would be required per ( this follows as before from Einstein 's theory ) .
For or carbon the quantity might be somewhat less than ergs but for most elements it would be considerably more .
The chances of finding in a discharge tube particles possessing sufficient to bring about such complete disintegration is small ; the -particle possesses energy ergs but even this does not seem to ppreciably drate the atoms it meets with .
* However , there is no reason to suppose that the atonls must be completely clisintegrated .
It is onceivable that a partial disintegration and libel.ation of a helium atom from certain less stable atoms might arise under conditions of electric stress such as are obtained in a tube .
Snch effects should be most likely to occur with the heaviest elements or possibly with rare earths or potassium .
From the above considerations it is more probable that the production of rare gases would arise from a process of disintegration of association .
Although it is not possible to make these calculations without certain It is possible the -particle docs possess sufficient energy to disintegrale some of atoms it ( see Ramsay and Cameroll , Chem. Soc. Trans vol. 91 , p. 1605 1907 ) ) .
eases aobtained bvidence oenergy othatassumptions which atten)radioactivityEl ?
with t of Collie and Patterson , by the of an electric has not been successful .
Both from theoretical and experimental standpoints , it is held that if such a production has an origin other than from atmospheric contaminatioL1 , the source must be looked for in some action on the solids which compose the tube ( electrodes ) rather than from gases .
I am greatly indebted to lnv friend , .
] .
A. indemann , the method of calculating the probability of collision of electron .
and and of some of the samples gas analysed .
I have also to thank Prof. Nernst for his interest in these experiments carried out in his laboratory in Berlin .
The experiments were conducted in continuation of work carried out with Sir William amsay on other lines but with somewhat similar apparatns , and to him and Prof. Collie I am grateful for the generous permission to the work .

