]\gt ; regard to its speoific inductive capacity and magnetic ability .
dhese expressions account , as far as we know , for the whole energy .
ccording to Maxwell 's theory currents consist essentially in a certa , in tribution of energy in and around a conductor , accompanied by ansformation and consequent movement of energy through the field .
8tarting with Maxwell 's theory we are naturally led to consider the blem , how does the energy about an electric current pass from : to point ; that is , by what paths and according to what law does travel the part of the circuit where it is first recognisable as lectric and magnetic to the parts where it is changed into heat or forms .
The aim of this paper is to prove that there is a general law for transfer of energy according to which it moves at any point pericularly to the plane containing the lines of electric and magnetic orce , and that the amount crossing unit of area per second of this bne is equal to the product of the two intensities mnltiplied by the asine of the angle between them divided by , while the direction of cflow of energy is that in which a right-handed screw would move if rsburned round from the positive direction of the electromotive to the cpositive direction of the magnetic intensity .
After the investigation of the general law several applications are given to show how the nergy moves in the neighbourhood of various circuits .
[ II .
" " Some Experiments on Metallic Reflection . .
On the Amount of Light Reflected by Metallic Surfaces .
II By Sir JOHN CONROY , Bart. , M.A. Communicated by Professor STOKES , Sec. B.S. Received December 15 , 1881 In a paper which Professor Stokes did me the honour of communicating to the Royal Society , and which appeared in the\ldquo ; Proceedings .
vol. 81 p. 26 , I gave an account of some experiments I had made on the amount of light reflected by polished metallic lrfaces.when ordinary unpolarised light was incident upon them .
The light of a paraffine lamp fell either directly , or after reflection from the metallic surface , on a photometer , and the readingf ; were made by altering the distance at which another similar lamp had to be placed from the photometer in order to produce an equal I have repeated the experiments with the steel and speculum metal adjustment by placing a second , or analysing , Nicol in path of the reflected light and crossing the Nicols , the former being placed with its principal section either in or perpendicular to the plane of incidence , aqld adjusting the stage screws till the light flected from the plate was completely extinguished .
The experiments were made in the manner described in the former paper , the light being polarised in , or perpendicularly to , the plane of incidence by the Nico ] .
It was found that the illumination of the paper varied with the position of Nicol , being always greatest when the light which fell on the paper was polarised in the plane of incidence .
Table I gives a series of observations made with the steel plate with light polarised in the plane of incidence .
The in the first column are the distances , in centimetres , of the sliding lamp from the photometer when the light from the lantern fell directly on the paper ; and those in the third when the light was reflected by the mirror .
The means of these observations are contained in the second and fourth columns , the angles of incidence in the fifth , and the rabios of the reflected to the incident light\mdash ; the latter being taken as 100\mdash ; in the sixth columll .
As intensity of light varies inversely as the square of the tance from the source , the percentage reflected by the plate is obtained by dividing the numbers contained in the second column by those in the fourt } , squaring , and multiplying by 100 .
Table II gives a similar series of measurements with the same plate and Hght polarised perpendicularly to the plane of incidence .
Three other similar series of observations were made , the actual determinations being about as concordant as those contained in the tables .
The four sets of observations , and their means , are given in Tables III and Table T. 63 . . . . . . . . .
' 63 .
81.2 . . . . . . . .
61.78 63 .
78 7 . . . . . . . .
63 . . . . . . . . .
63 .
75.9 . . . . . . . .
70.88 63 . . . . . . . . .
77.22 64 .
70.9 . . . . . . . .
69.9 . . . . . . . .
8409 . . . . . . . .
84.58 78 .
78 .
78 .
80 .
84 .
Table II .
110.7 . . . . . . . .
115.9 . . . . . . . .
123.9 . . . . . . . .
128.4 . . . . . . . .
134.2 . . . . . . . .
149.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
161.3 . . . . . . . .
163.7 . . . . . . . .
Some Experiments on pVetallic Reffection .
Table III.\mdash ; Steel , with Light polarised in the plane of Incidence .
IV.\mdash ; Steel , with Light polarised perpendicularly to the Plane of Incidence .
Similar measurements were made with the speculum metal mirror , and the results are given in Tables and Table SpecuIum Metal , with Light polarised in the Plane of Incidence .
Principal Principal incidence .
Mean .
incidence .
Mean .
Steel . . . . . . . .
Speculum metal. .
A beam of ordinary light being equivalent to two beams of half its intensity polarised at right angles to each other , the percentage of light reflected by the plates , if ordinary unpolarised light were incident upon them , is given by half the sum of the intensities of the light polarised in , and perpendicular to , the planes of incidence .
Some xperiments on Metallic flection .
11 In Table VIII the numbers obtained this way are the nd and 5th columns , the values as determined by the experiments scribed in the paper already referred to in the and 6th columns , pd in the 4th and 7th columns the results calculated out , as described a subsequent part of the present paper , from the measurements de with polarised light .
Table VIII .
In addition to the actual numerical differences between the values , the two sets of observations appear to differ fundamentally , for whilst the numbers in the second and fifth columns diminish slightly , and then increase again , as the angle of incidence increases , those in the third and sixth increase with the angle , a result that , as was pointed out in the former paper , is not in accordance with either theory , or preyious observations , and which , as was stated in the paper , if erroneous , must have been caused by some defect in the method employed , and therefore common to all the determinations .
Further consideration showed that such was really the case , and that the defect in the method was the one pointed out by Professor Stokes in the note appended by him to the paper ( ' ' Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 35 , p. 39 ) .
As has already been stated , the apparent brightness of the paper varied with the polarisation of the incident light , or , in other words , the amount of light irregularly reflected , or diffused , the paper was different for light polarised in , or perpendicularly to , the plane of incidence .
The light being incident upon the paper at an angle of about , whilst the line of sight formed an angle of Table IX.70.9 . . . . . . . .
85.3 70.0 . . . . . . . .
90.4 68.8 . . . . . . . .
86.9 Mean . . . . . . . . . . .
Calling the light diflused by the paper when the incident light was polarised in the plane of incidence 100 , it would appear that when the light was polarised perpendicularly to that plane only about 63 per cent. of the light reached the observer .
The very considerable difference in the amount of light diffused in the two cases seems the more remarkable , as previous to the publication of the former paper the illuminated surfaces of the photometer were examined with a bi-quartz , and although they showed traces of polarisation it was only , apparently at least , to a very inconsiderable extent .
This experiment has been recently repeated , and with the same result ; the lamp light diffused by the paper of the photometer showing hardly any , if any , traces of polarisation , whilst that reflected obliquely from the blackened surface of the board along which the lamp was arranged to slide , when examined in the same way , was seen to be strongly polarised .
* the light falling on the paper , a considerable part would be reflected at various depths before it had lost , through the various irregular reflections and refractions , all traces of its original polarisation , and consequently light derived from that which was originally polarised in the plane of incidence would be more copiously reflected than light derived from that which had been pcdarised in a perpendicular plane .
But the light so reflected would have to make its way among the fibres of the paper , especially as the angle of emergence was considerable , an ble and in so doing would be pretty well depolarised by the irregular reflections an rebactions which it would have to undergo .
This accounts for the circumstance Some Experimenfs on fetalli Reflection .
{ Owing to the unequal reflection of light polarised in and perpeniicularly to the plane of incidence , the experimental results contained the paper published in the " " Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 35 , p. 26 , .
be the true values of the amount of light reflected by the 1 tnirrors .
The lamp light which was incident upon the mirrors , being equivalent two beams of half its intensity polarised in and perpendicularly to 9She plane of incidence , and light polarised in and perpendicularly to his plane being unequally diffused by the paper , as well as unequally eflected by the mirrors , the observed intensity must , as Professor , pointed out , be , and not Assuming the values of and found from the determinations Jwith polarised light , and the value of ffom the measurements contained in Table IX , the value of for the two mirrors at different incidences were calculated out , * and the numbers thus obtained are given in the fourth and seventh columns of Table VIII .
In the case of the steel mirro observed and calculated numbers !
agree tolerably , as well , perhaps , as could have been expected , recollecting the nature of the determinations , but with the speculum metal mirror the results are discordant , the calculated results being in all cases too low .
The observations with unpolarised light were made immediately after the mirror had been polished , whilst an interval of several months elapsed before those with polarised light were finished .
Although the mirror was kept in a dry warm room , and in a closed case containing lime , its surface was usually found to be oovered with a slight film ; this was readily removed by rubbing it gently for a few seconds with a piece of wash-leather , and the surface then appeared perfectly bright .
After the conclusion of the experiments with polarised light , the photometer was rearranged in its original form , and three observations were made of the amount of unpolarised light reflected by the mirror at an angle of in order to ascertain whether the reflective power that the illumination was so different that was produced by light polarised in two ways , even though the polarisation of the light coming from the paper was very feeble when the light incident was common light .
I overlooked this when I proposed Proc. Roy .
Soc vol. 35 , p. 39 ) to measure by measuring the isation of the light coming in this case from the paper , and regarded as only " " a little\ldquo ; greater than on the strength of the author 's assurance that the polarisation was so slight.\mdash ; G. G. S. ] * The actual calculations were made with the alent formula -\mdash ; , in which Table XII .
Steel Mirror .
Observed .
Calculated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Speculum Metal Mirror . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
These numbers seem to show that the differences between the calculated and observed results are not merely due to errors of observation , a conclusion that is rendered the more probable by the fact that the difference is always in the same direction .
The polish of the mirrors was examined at the end of the experiments by the method suggested by Professor Stokes , and described in

