X. " On the Muscular Arrangements of the Bladder and Prostate , and the manner in which the Ureters and Urethra are closed .
" By JAMES BELL PETTIGREW , M.D. Edin .
, Assistant in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Received June 21 , 1866 .
( Abstract .
) The present communication , which is based on an extensive series of dissections* and illustrated by photographs , is intended to show that the muscular fibres of the bladder , contrary to the received opinion , are spiral fibres , and with few exceptions form figure-of-8 loops .
The loops are variously shaped , according as they are superficial or deep , the more superficial loops being attenuated or drawn out so as to resemble longitudinal or vertical fibres , the deeper ones being flattened from above downwards , and resembling circular fibres .
These loops are directed towards the apex and base , and are arranged in four sets ; an anterior and a posterior set which are largely developed , and a right and left lateral set which are accessory and less fully developed .
The bladder is consequently bilaterally symmetrical .
The superficialloops are confined principally to the anterior , posterior or lateral aspects , but the deeper ones radiate and expand towards the apex and base , so that they come to embrace the entire circumference of the bladder in these directions .
The expansion of the fibres is greatest towards the apex , and the aggregation of the terminal loops of the anterior and posterior fibres at the cervix ( assisted by the lateral fibres ) form a wellmarked sphincter vesicae in this situation .
The fibres pursue definite but varying courses , those which are longitudinal or vertical at one point becoming slightly oblique at a second , oblique at a third , and very oblique or transverse at a fourth .
The fibres consequently change their direction and position on the vesical parietes gradually and according to a fixed principle .
The principle involved is readily explained .
The most external and most internal fibres are always the most vertical and most feebly developed ; those which succeed or follow becoming more and more oblique and stronger and stronger .
The fibres from this circumstance are divisible into two orders , viz. , an external and an internal , and these , as has been stated , are grouped in two principal and two subsidiary sets .
The two principal sets occur on the anterior and posterior aspects of the viscus , and are so arranged that the terminal or transverse portions of the anterior set intersect the more vertical portions of the posterior set nearly at right angles and the reverse .
Similar remarks apply to the subsidiary sets .
Between what may be called the vertical or longitudinal and the circular or transverse fibres , other fibres having different degrees of obliquity occur .
These consist for the most part of the deeper anterior and posterior spiral fibres , and of the subsidiary spiral fibres from the sides .
There is consequently no part of the vesical parietes in which longitudinal , slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique external and internal fibres may not be found .
The additional strength ; secured by this arrangement cannot well be estimated .
The external and internal fibres are similarly disposed on the anterior , posterior , and lateral aspects , and if the dissection be conducted from without inwards , the fibres first removed are the mesial , vertical , or longitudinal fibres ; then the slightly oblique fibres inclined on either side , and crossing at acute angles as in an attenuated figure of 8 ; then the oblique fibres , crossing at wider vertical angles as in the more perfect figure of 8 .
Lastly , the very oblique fibres , crossing at such obtuse angles as to have been , up to the present , regarded as circular fibres .
The fibres which are still deeper and which constitute the proper internal fibres , have a precisely similar , arrangement , but are rudimentary , and consequently not so readily traced .
The external and internal fibres , as will be seen from this description , be1866.3 245 come more and more oblique , both from without and from within , or in proportion as the centre of the vesical parietes is reached , the deepest or most oblique external and internal sets forming , by the blending of their terminal or transverse portions , what is commonly known as the central layer .
The most external or superficial fibres are connected directly and indirectly with the slightly oblique external fibres , the slightly oblique with the oblique , and the oblique with the very oblique .
The very oblique external fibres , on the other hand , are connected with the oblique internal , these in their turn being connected with the slightly oblique internal , and the slightly oblique internal with the longitudinal or vertical internal .
In some instances the longitudinal external are connected directly with the longitudinal internal , and so of the slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique external and internal fibres .
The apex and base of the bladder are similarly constructed , and resemble in their general configuration the other portions of the vesical walls ; i. e. , they are composed of longitudinal or vertical , slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique or circular fibres which cross in given directions on the external and internal surfaces .
The four sets of longitudinal or vertical fibres have a crucial arrangement at the apex and base , and the slightly oblique fibres are drawn together at the urachus and cervix by the constrictions which in the embryo separate the bladder from the allantois and urethra .
The slightly oblique fibres consequently converge towards the apex and base respectively ; and this arrangement at the cervix greatly assists in closing the urethra , as the fibres naturally come together to form an impervious fiunnel-shaped projection which is directed downwards and forwards .
The closure of the urethra is completed by the contraction of the very oblique or circular fibres forming the sphincter , and by the prominence of the uvula vesicee ( luette vesicale ) and median ridge in the female , and the caput gallinaginis or verumontanum in the male .
The longitudinal or vertical , slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique external and internal fibres at the base are continued forward within the prostate to the membranous portion of the urethra , and the external and internal surfaces of the corpus spongiosum .
The coats of the urethra are therefore to be regarded as the proper continuation of the walls of the bladder in an anterior direction .
The longitudinal or vertical , slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique spiral fibres which form the tunics of the bladder and urethra are curiously enough repeated in the prostate of the male , and the analogous structure n the female , so that this gland would seem to be composed chiefly of fibrous offsets from the fibres in question .
The relations existing between the prostate , urethra , and cervix of the bladder are best seen when vertical , horizontal , and antero-posterior or transverse sections of the bladder and prostate are made .
In such sections the external longitudinal or vertical anterior , posterior , and lateral fibres are seen to pass forward on the external surface of the 246 urethra ; a certain proportion passing outwards to be inserted into the anterior , posterior , and lateral surfaces of the capsule of the prostate , others passing inwards or through the gland in a vertical or longitudinal and likewise in a horizontal or transverse direction .
The crucial arrangement of the four sets of external fibres at the apex and base is thus clearly traceable in the prostate .
Such of the external fibres as are not inserted into the capsule of the prostate are attached to the posterior surface of the pubis , the internal border of the aponeurosis of the levator any , and the fascia covering Guthrie 's muscle .
The external fibres investing the dorsal , ventral , and lateral aspects of the urethra and prostate are separated by a considerable interval , thus showing that , although the relations existing between the urethra and prostate are of the most intimate description , they may nevertheless be regarded as independent .
What has been said of the external longitudinal fibres applies equally to the slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique external and internal ones , these bifurcating and distributing themselves with considerable regularity to the walls of the urethra , and the substance of the prostate respectively .
The urethra and prostate are thus composed of fibres crossing in every direction as in the bladder itself .
The very oblique external and internal fibres are interesting because of the very obtuse angles at which they intersect , and because they are principally concerned in forming the sphincter of the bladder , and the so-called circular layer of the prostate .
The very oblique fibres , like the other fibres described , are arranged in an anterior and a posterior set , which are largely developed , and a right and left lateral set , which are developed less feebly .
The anterior fibres , which are directed posteriorly , form the posterior half of the sphincter vesicee , and the posterior fibres , which have an opposite direction , the anterior .
The sphincter is thus bilaterally symmetrical , and is somewhat oval in shape , the long axis being directed transversely , or from side to side .
The two sets of lateral fibres , which also enter into the formation of the sphincter , intersect the angles formed by the crossing of the anterior and posterior fibres , and render its aperture more circular than it would otherwise be .
This circumstance , taken in connexion with the fact that the fibres pursue a very oblique direction , has given rise to the belief that the fibres of the splhincter and neck of the bladder generally are circular fibres , which , as the author shows , is not the case .
The fibres of the sphincter are best seen by inverting the bladder and dissecting from within , or by making transverse sections of the prostatic portion of the urethra in the direction of the fundus .
They are most strongly pronounced at the cervix , but are continued forward on the urethra and backwards into the bladder .
In the female they extend even to the meatus urinarius .
The very oblique or circular fibres of the urethra are separated from the corresponding fibres of the prostate by the longitudinal , slightly oblique , and oblique fibres forming the outer half of the urethral wall and the inner portion of the prostate .
The interval is particularly evident at the cervix , where the sphincter is most distinctly pronounced ; 1866 .
] 247 and here the two sets of very oblique or circular fibres have different axes .
Further forward , or towards the apex of the prostate , the space gradually diminishes , the circular fibres of the gland curving in an upward direction into the verumontanum or caput gallinaginis , and blending with the circular fibres of the urethra .
While , therefore , the very oblique or circular fibres of the urethra are entirely distinct at one point , they are indissolubly united at another .
This is important , as it shows how the sphincter may act independently of the prostate , and the reverse .
The longitudinal or vertical internal fibres posteriorly , connect the median or central portion of the trigone ( trigone vesical , trigonum vesicEe , Lieutaud ) with the verumontanum in the male , and the uvula and median ridge in the female .
The slightly oblique internal fibres bound the trigone laterally , and are continued into the verumontanum , where they cross slightly .
The oblique fibres which assist in forming the base of the trigone , are likewise continued in a downward direction on the verumontanum , where they cross , and are mixed up with the continuations of the very oblique fibres which form the sphincter at the neck , and with the circular fibres of the prostate .
The arrangement of the fibres in the trigone resembles that found at the cervix and fundus generally , and the author is of opinion that Sir Charles Bell was in error when he described the " I muscles of the ureters " as separate structures .
The ureters enter the vesical parietes at a very obtuse angle , and the angle increases according to the degree of distension of the bladder .
These tubes receive accessions of fibres from the longitudinal , slightly oblique , oblique , and very oblique external and internal fibres of the bladder in their vicinity , and are continued upon each other within the bladder in the form of a strong transverse band .
The transverse band which connects the ureters together within the bladder , or between the uretral orifices , is equal in volume to the ureters themselves within the vesical parietes .
The band in question is best seen when the base of the bladder is detached and held against the light , and seems to be formed by the obliteration of the uretral tubes between the uretral orifices .
The uretral channels seek the internal surface of the bladder even more obliquely than the ureters , and the inner walls of the ureters become so thin , particularly towards the uretral orifices , that they act mechanically as moveable partitions or valves , as in the smaller veins* .
The canals of the ureters are consequently closed , partly by the contractions of the muscular walls , and partly by the mechanical pressure exercised by the urine about to be expelled .
From the foregoing description it will be evident that the various sets of external and internal fibres forming the bladder , urethra , and prostate are antagonistic , not only as regards themselves , but also as regards the territory or region they occupy ; the loops formed by the anterior fibres crossing each other at more or less acute angles according to their depths , the anterior fibres , as a whole , crossing the posterior or homologous fibres as a whole .
While , therefore , the fibres , in virtue of their twisted looped arrangement , antagonize each other individually , the aggregation of the fibres in any one region check , antagonize , and coordinate a similar aggregation of fibres at an opposite point ; the anterior fibres , e.g. , acting on the posterior , and the right lateral upon the left lateral .
This arrangement , which is productive of great strength , ensures that the external and internal fibres shall act in unison or together , and fully explains the views of the older anatomists , who described the bladder as consisting of fibres crossing in every direction , and forming an intricate network .
It likewise accords with the more modern opinion , that the fibres of the bladder may be divided into strata or layers .
The fibres , when their points of attachment are taken into consideration , can only contract spirally from above downwards , and from without inwards ; they in fact converge , or close spirally in the direction of the cervix , which may be said to diverge or open in an opposite direction as the contraction proceeds .
As a result of this twisting movement , the urine , like the blood , is projected spirally* .
Finally , the fibres of the bladder , urethra , and prostate pursue at least seven well-marked directions ; the fibres crossing with remarkable precision at wider and wider angles , as the central portion of either is reached , as in the left ventricle of the vertebrate heart t. In fact , the fibres of the bladder and heart have a strictly analogous arrangement , and the author is inclined to believe that functionally also they possess points of resemblance .
Yery similar remarks may be made regarding the structure and functions of the stomach and uterus .

