XVIII .
Propositions containing some Properties of TANGENTS to Circles ; and of TRAPEZIUMS inscribed in Circles , and noninscribed .
Together with Propositions on the Elliptic Representations of CIRCLES , upon a plane surface , by PERSPECTIVE .
By Richard Hey , LL. D. ; late Fellow of Sidney Sussex and Magdalen Colleges , in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by the Rev. Edward Balm , MI .
A. F. R. S. Read March 31 , 18 4 .
1 HE propositions of the first series , and which are termed Introductory , had their origin from my attention being directed to the perspcctive representation of a Circle .
But they are kept separate from the perspective propositions .
Comprising some things believed to be new , and forming a short system in themselves , they may , on these accounts , be acceptable to other Readers besides those who study perspective .
A desideratum , in the science of perspective , had been suggested to me by the Reverend Mr. KERRICH , Principal Librarian to the University of Cambridge ; namely , of some law or laws which the axes , of ellipses representing circles , might be found to observe in their directions .
An attempt , grounded on this suggestion , is contained in the four Propositions concluding the second or Perspective series .
If these be correct , it is hoped that a foundation is laid , for further improvement by pert ons younger than myself and differently circumstanced .
And some mechanical instrument * may possibly be brought to co-operate with the theory here given or begun , so as that , in conjunction , they may afford considerable advantage to the practice of perspective ; especially wlere a number of circles together are to be represented .
The same four propositions are built upon the sixth on perspective : of which the construction ( as given in fig. 5 .
) may be seen in HAMILTON'S * Stereography .
That it was not taken from his work , but separately discovered , has no claim to the attention of the reader , except in this respect ; that , in the solutions of any problem , the more persons there are who give independently the same solution , the more likely it is ( caeteris paribus ) to be better than any solution not yet discovered .
The demonstration also has been varied ; both of this sixth proposition , and of some other things which , though not new in substance , it has been judged expedient to insert .
For the seventh of the propositions on perspective , I am also indebted to Mr. KERRICH : though , for the proof here given of it , I am responsible .
The foregoing account appears to be all the previous information necessary , to trouble a reader with , who may be going to examine the propositions in his closet .
But , as mathematical demonstrations , accompanied with diagrams , cannot be accommodated to a public reading , some further particulars are therefore here subjoined : which , if the Paper should have the honour of being received by the Royal Society , may give a better insight into its nature and intent .
The whole had its origin in the study of that part , of the John Farey junior , obtained the gold medal , in May I8I3 , .
from the Society for the Encouragement of Arts .
For its merits I re &amp; fer to that Society .
B. IEI .
Sect. II .
Prob. i.:MDcCXIV .
Zz 349 science of perspective , which relates to the representation of a circle .
And the principal result ( so far as immediately respects that science ) is contained in the four propositions which conclude the paper , together with the lemma which precedes them .
This is called a lemma rather than a proposition , because it does not necessarily involve the consideration of a circle .
That the perspective representation of an entire circle is an ellipse or circle , is simply a part of the doctrine of conic sections .
To that doctrine therefore it is referred , in the first of the perspective propositions .
An entire circle , supposed to be viewed by the eye through the plane of the picture , excludes ( by the hypothesis ) the two cases in which the circle touches and cuts the plane , passing through the eye , parallel to the picture .
In which two cases , the representation is a parabola and hyperbola respectively .
Not having any thing new to offer upon these representations , or not any thing appearing likely to improve the practice of perspective , I have omitted the two cases entirely ; and confined myself to the elliptic representations , the circular included .
The principal inquiry has been , whether , in any instances of a number of circles , lying in one plane and having their centres in one right line , any law or laws could be discovered to be observed by the major or minor axes of the representing ellipses , in their directions or positions .
If it could have been proved that the axes converged to a known or easily discoverable point , this would have been a great acquisition to the science of perspective , and have given a direct facility to the practice .
But , if indeed they do not so converge , it is natural to wish that this should be demonstrated .
Such a demonstration puts an end to further inquiry about the point to which they might be imagined to converge , and wholly about such convergency in them n and leaves us free to inquire after any other law or regularity which the axes may observe .
Now the object of the lemma ( with its first corollary ) , prefixed to the eighth of the propositions on perspective , is to prove that lines , in a picture , cannot converge to a point ; unless the original lines which they represent happen so to converge or else to be parallel .
The inference is , that the axes of the ellipses cannot so converge , unless the chords which they represent should so converge or be parallel : a case which may rarely happen , and , if happening , may not be readily discernible .
The convergency to a point , by the axes , being therefore dismissed , the four remaining propositions , after the lemma , exhibit nevertheless a regularity in the directions of the axes .
Though these do not converge to a point , they are ( if the reasoning be just ) parallel respectively to other lines which do converge to a point .
To find each of these other lines separately and accurately , is not the object proposed .
But certain limits are pointed out , within which the artist is to keep ; and a regularity marked , by which the variation in the directions of successive axes is to be guided : which , it is hoped , will produce a sufficient accuracy in a great number of instances .
And , where any one or more circles require singly a strict accuracy , to this the construction of the sixth proposition is adapted .
How much , or whether any part , of the first seven propositions on perspective , might have been omitted , without injury Zz to that series of propositions , I do not take upon me to decide .
Certainly much of the matter , contained in the seven , is not new .
But , so far as it is necessary to the principal design , its admission will be justified .
And also new proof , of what is already known , is sometimes acceptable to the mathematician , and may be admitted as an advancement of science .
On which ground the proof here given of the sixth proposition , and some other proofs , await the decision of the reader .
An indirect result of the research , is merely geometrical and may be taken separately from perspective .
This consists of the introductory propositions .
On the one hand , it appeared necessary , or desirable , that these should accompany the perspective propositions ; because of various references , in the latter , to the former .
On the other hand , it seemed also desirable that the introductory propositions should be so far kept separate , as to enable any reader to peruse them , who would have declined all examination of their contents if interwoven with perspective .
The properties of the circle , not improbably , lie open to abundant successful investigation .
It is hoped that the introductory propositions , of this paper , may have contributed a little to the stock of knowledge respecting that remarkable geometrical figure .
To avoid crowding the plates with figures , I have , in a few instances , left it to the reader to construct his own figures for illustration , if they appear to be wanted .
For instance , in cor .
6 to introd .
prop. X , and cor .
i to introd .
prop. XII .
INTRODUCTORY PROPOSITIONS .
Some Properties of TANGENTS to Circles ; and of TRAPEZIUMS , inscribed in Circles , and non-inscribed .
Definitions , fr the Introductory Propositions .
Def i. The tangent-chord , of a given point without a circle , is the chord from whose extremities tangents meet in the given point .
Def. a. A vertex to a base is any point , within a circle , through which are drawn chords : and the right line joining the points to which those are the tangent-chords , is the base to that vertex .
Def. 3 .
The mean point is a point in the diameter perpendicular to such base : and its distance from the base is a mean proportional between the distances of the extremities of that diameter , from the base .
Thus ( Fig. i ) : If the chords PQ , GH , pass through V within a circle , and if PD , QD , GL , HL , be tangents , and LD be drawn ; PQ is ( def .
i ) the tangent-chord of D , GH that of L ; and ( def .
2 ) V is the vertex to the base LD .
If a diameter FB produced cut LD perpendicularly in D , and if , in DF , be taken DM equal to DP , therefore* a mean proportional between DF and DB , M is ( def .
3 ) the mean point.f Prop. I. Fig. i , a. In a given circle , one vertex has only one base ; a right line indefinite in length : and one base has one vertex .
Thus : if GH and any other chords pass through the vertex V ; the tangents from their extremities meet respectively in points of one indefinite line LD : and , conversely , if tangents be drawn from L and other points of LD ; all their tangentchords pass through one point V. Demonstration .
Fig. 2 .
Let E be the centre , and PQ the chord bisected in V. Draw the tangents GL , HL , PD , QD ; and draw DE , DL , LE , EP , EQ , EH .
On the diameters DE , LE , describe circles .
That on DE passes through P and Q , because of the right angles DPE , DQE ; and that on LE through G and H. And DE passes through V , because of the similar and equal right-angled triangles DEP , DEQ , By the circle on DE , the rectangle DVE is equal to PVQ ; which , by the given circle GPQ , is equal to GVH ; whence GEHD is* a circle , and is that on LE , and LDE ist a right angle .
In like manner , if any other chord ST pass through V , and if tangents from S and T would meet in R , RDE would be proved a right angle .
Therefore LDR is one right line .
And conversely ( fig. i ) , if L be any point in a base to V ; its tangent.chord GH passes through V. If not , let another chord Gh so pass .
Then ( as proved ) the tangent from h meets GL in that base , therefore in L ; that is , in the same point as the tangent from H. Which is impossible .
Therefore GH passes through V. Q E.D. Cor. i. Fig. i. The indefinite base to a given vertex V , is a line parallel to the chord bisected in V , and passing through any point , L or D , in whose tangent-chord V is .
# By a necessary converse of III Eucl .
prop. 35 .
+ III Eucl .
prop. 3x 354 And the vertex to a given base LR , if E be the centre and ED a perpendicular on LR , is the intersection of ED with the tangent-chord of any point D or L of the base , Cor. 2 .
Fig. i. The mean point M , to a given base , is in the same diameter with V : and DM , as equal to DP , is a mean proportional between DE and DV .
For , if EP be drawn , the triangles EDP , PDV , are similar .
Cor. 3 .
Fig. 2 .
If a chord GH bisect PQ the tangent-chord of any point D ; DE bisects the angle GDH .
For , draw DG , DH , EG .
The right lines EG , EH , are equal ; and the arcs EG , EH ; whence the angle GDE is * equal to EDH .
And , conversely , if DE bisect GDH , GH bisects PQ the tangentchord of D. For , if any other chord through G should bisect PQ , the same angle GDE would be equal to one greater or less than EDH : which is impossible .
Cor. 4 .
Fig. 2 .
V is the vertex to the base LR in every circle whose centre , as E , is in DV produced beyond V , and whose radius , as EP or EQ , is found by the intersection P or Q of a circle on the diameter ED with the parallel PQ .
For DPE and DQE aret right angles ; whence DP and DQ areS tangents .
Prop. II .
Fig. 3 .
The distance of an assumed point , in a given base , from the mean point within the circle , is equal to a tangent from the assumed point . ?
Thus : if L be assumed in the base LD , and if M be the mean point within the circle GBQ , and LG a tangent ; LM is equal to LG .
Dem .
From the centre E draw ED perpendicular to LD ; and draw the tangent DQ ; also EQ , EG , LE .
The squares of LM and radius are equal to those of LD and DM ( or DQ ) and radius ; therefore to those of LD and DE , so to that of LE or those of LG and radius ; whence the square of LM is equal to that of LG , and LM to LG .
Q. E. ) .
Prop. III .
Fig. &gt; .
If the tangent-chord of any point will , produced , pass through any other given point ; that of the second will pass through the first ; and the squares of the two tangents , one from each point , are together equal to that of the intercepted right line ; and , such line being taken as a base , and the mean point to it being found , lines to this from the two points contain a right angle .
Thus : if ST , the tangent-chord of R , will pass through L ; GH , that of L , will pass through R ; and the squares of the tangents LG and RS are together equal to that of LR ; and , LR being a base , LMR at the mean point is a right angle .
Dem .
Draw LH ; and let it be between LR and LG .
Draw from the centre E , to LR , a perpendicular ED ; also GD , GR .
Describe the circles LGEH , RSET * .
These will pass through D , because of the right angles LDE , RDE ; whence the rectangle RLD is equal to SLT , so to the square of LG , and LD is to LG as LG to LR .
Therefore the angle LGR ist equal to LDG , to LHG , to LGH ; and GH produced will pass through R. And , because of the circle GHD , the rectangle LRD is equal to GRH , so to the square of RS ; whence this square and that of LG ( proved equal to RLD ) aret together equal to that of LR .
And LM is * equal to LG , and RM to RS ; whence the squares of LM and RM are together equal to that of LR .
Therefore f LMR is a right angle .
Q. E. D. Cor. i. If V be the vertex to LR , and right lines fromI L and R to E , also to V , be'drawn or conceived ; the angle LER is acute , LVR obtuse .
Cor. 2 .
If the tangent-chord of a point L will pass through a point R , and if D in LR make RLD equal to the square of LG ; ED is perpendicular to LR .
For , draw EH .
Then RL is to LG as LG to LD ; whence the angle LDG is ?
equal to LGR or LGH , so to LHG , and LGEHD is one circle .
But LHE is a right angle ; therefore also LDE .
Prop. IV .
Fig. 4 .
If two points be such , that , the intercepted tight line being a base and the mean point to it being found , lines from this to the given points contain a right angle , or that the squares of the tangents from the two points are together equal to that of the intercepted line ; the tangent-chord of each of the two points will pass through the other .
Thus : if , LR being a base , LMR at the mean point be a right angle , or the squares of LG and RS be together equal to that of LR ; the tangent-chord of L will pass through R , and that of R through L. Dem .
On the first supposition , the tangent-chord of R will pass through L : else it would cut the indefinite base in some other point , from which a right line to M would be II perpendicular to MR ; which is impossible .
Therefore also ?
the tangent-chord of L will pass through R. On the second supposition , LMR will be** a right angle ; whence ( by the present proposition ) the tangent-chord of each of the two points will pass through the other .
Q E. D. Cor. If either LMR be a right angle , or the squares of LO and RS be together equal to that of LR ; the other of these two follows from it.* Prop. V. Fig. 5 .
If a diameter be cut by a perpendicular from any point of the circumference , and , produced , be cut by a tangent from the same point , and if an angle be made at any point of the circumference , by right lines to the two intersections ; this angle and its supplement are bisected by right lines to the extremities of the diameter .
Thus : if LR , a diameter of GNH , be cut in I by NI , and , produced , in K by NK , and if GK cut the circumference in H between G and K ; the angles INK , IHK , IGK , are bisected by NR , R , , GR , and their supplements INX , IHY , IGY , by NL , L , GL ; KN being produced to X , and KG to Y. Damn .
Produce NI to O in the circumference , and draw OR , OL .
Then RNK is f equal to NOR , so to ONR or INR ; also LNX to NOL , so to ONL or INL .
Produce GI , HI , to T , S , in the circumference .
Draw HT , SK , SR , SG , SL .
Then , since US and GT bisect NO , HKR or GKR is * equal to RKS or RKT , HK ?
to TK , GK to SK ; and HT and GS are perpendicular to LR .
IHR or SHR is equal to SGR , so to GSR , which , having the supplement j1 RHG , is equal to RHK .
And , from the equal arcs RH , RT , TGR or IGR is equal to RGH or RGK .
And the right lines LG , LS , are equal , and the arcs LG , LS ; whence LHS or LHI is equal to LHG or LHY .
And LGI ( LGS and IGS ) is equal to LSG and ISG together , that is , to LSI , which , having the supplement LGH , is equal to LGY .
Q. ED .
Cor. i. The angle HIT is bisected by LR , which bisects HtIT perpendicularly : and GIH is bisected by NO , because IIR is equal to TIR , so to GIL .
Cor. 2 .
In every triangle in which IK is one side , and the opposite angle is at the circumference of the circle , the two other sides , adjacent to IR and RK respectively , are * in the ratio of IR to RK .
Cor. 3 .
Fig. 6 .
If a right line IK be divided unequally in R , in a ratio given ; a circle LNR may be found such , that , K being a side of any triangle having the opposite angle at the circumference , one of the other sides shall bear to the remaining side the given ratio .
Describe the semicircle ITK , draw RT perpendicular to IK , and the tangent TL cutting KI produced in L : a circle LNR , on the diameter LR , is the circle required .
For , let the two circumferences cut each other in Q ; bisect IK in F , LR in C ; draw IN perpendicalar to LR ; also : FQ , CQ , FT , CN , KN .
Then , since LTF and TRF areright angles , the rectangle LFR is t equal to the square of FT , so of FQ ; whence FQ touches $ LNR , FQC is a right angle , and CQ touches ?
ITK ; whence the rectangle KCI is Ij equal to the square of CQ , so of CN , and the angle KNC , as equal to NIC , is a right angle , therefore KN a tangent .
Prop. VI .
Fig. 5 .
If the tangent-chord of a gien point be cut by a cllord produced to that point ; the produced chord is divided in harmonical proportion.* Thus : if NO the tangent-chord of K be cut in V by a chord GH , or in I by the diameter LR , each , when produced , passing through K ; then GK is to HK as GV to VH , and LK to RK as LI to IR .
That is ; the distances of G and H , of L and R , from K , are proportional to their distances from V and I respectively .
Dem .
Let the figure be as in Prop. V. ; and let GA , HB , be perpendiculars on LR .
Then the angles HIR , GIL , are equal .
Therefore the triangles-HIB , GIA , are similar ; and GK is to HK as GA to HB , as AI to IB , as GV to VHI .
Further .
LK is to RK as the rectangle LKR or the square of NK to the square of RK , as that of NI to that of IR , as ?
LI to IR .
Q.E.D. I Cor. i. If a chord GT , through any vertex I , will , produced , cut KC , the indefinite base to I , in any point C ; then GC is to TC as GI to IT , and GC to GI as TC to TI .
For the tangent-chord of C passes ?
through I. Cor. 2 .
If GT be a chord through any vertex I , and Z any point in the base , and if the chord bisected in I be cut in D by ZG , in W by ZT produced ; ID is equal to IW .
For DW is parallel to KC : and CZ is to ID as GC to GI , as * TC to TI , as CZ to IW .
And , , conversely , if ID be equal to IW , then GD and WT , produced , will meet in a point Z of the base .
Cor. 3 .
Fig. 6 .
If L , I , R , K , in that order , be points in one right line , and LK be to RK as LI to IR , and if LR be a diameter of a circle LNR , and IN perpendicular to LR ; KN is a tangent .
For , if not , the tangent-chord of K will cut LR in some point X other than I. Then LX is to XR as LK to RK , as LI to IR : which is impossible .
So , if IK be the diameter of ITK , and RT a perpendicular ; LT is a tangent .
Cor. 4 .
Fig. 6 .
If any three of L , I , R , K , be given ; the fourth , if an extreme point , as K , may be found by LNR , IN , NK ; if an intermediate point , as R , then by I rK , LT , TR .
Cor. 5 Fig. 7 .
A circle PHF may be described , having a given vertex V to a given base LR , and passing through a given point P whose perpendicular distance from LR is greater than from VF parallel to LR .
Let GD be a perpendicular , through V , on LR .
Draw PD , PV ; also PG , making the angle VPG equal to PDG .
G is the centre required .
For , draw GF .
Then , by the similar triangles DGP and PGV , the rectangle DGV is equal to the square of PG or GF ; whence the triangles DGF and FGV are similar , DFG is a right angle , as equal to FVG , and DF a tangent ; whence V is vertex in PHF to LR .
Let DV cut the circle first in H , then in K. DK is to KV as DH to HV .
Therefore DH is greater than HV ; and , if P were not further from LR than from VF , the thing could not be done .
If P be given in the I't Cor. I to prop. .
36I perpendicular , as at H or K , the circle is found from the proportion , DK to KV as DH to HV .
Cor. 6 .
Fig. 7 .
If two circles , SQT and HFK , have the same vertex V to a given base LR ; they are not concentric , and one includes the other and does not touch it .
Thus : if E be the centre of SQT , and G of HFK , and EV be greater than GV ; SQT includes HFK , and does not touch it .
For , let VD be the perpendicular on LR .
Draw VQ parallel to LR , cutting SQT in Q and HFK in F. Draw DQ , DF : which are tangents .
Then , if any point X were the common centre of the circles , and XF and XQ were drawn , both XFD and XQD would be right angles : which is impossible .
E and G are * in DV produced : which line will cut SQT first in a point S , then in a point T ; and in like manner cut HFK , in H and K. Then DK is to KV as DH to HV , and DT to TV as DS to SV .
But DK is less than DT ; whence the ratio of DK to KV is greater than of DT to TV .
Therefore that of DH to HV is greater than of DS to SV ; whence SV is greater than HV .
Afortiori the whole of SQT falls without HFK .
Prop. VII .
Fig. 7 .
Problem .
Two circles , not concentric , being given , of which one includes the other and does not touch it ; to find a base , having a vertex common to the two circles .
Solution .
Let E be the centre of the outer circle SQT , and G that of the inner HFK .
Draw EG indefinite ; cutting the circles in H and S beyond G , in K and T beyond E. Find as+ bXq .
Es-_ sq .
GH _. .
EG ; and divide it ~ Tight line A equal t-to s GH EG ; and divide it into two parts whose rectangle shall be equal to the square of GH .
Make GV equal to the less part , and GD to the greater ; taking V and D in EG produced beyond G. Through D , perpendicular to GD , draw LR the base required : to which V is the common vertex .
Dem .
First , A is greater than 2GH .
For sq .
ES sq .
GH is greater than sq .
EH sq .
GH , which is * sq .
EG + 2EGH ; whence A is greater than ' EG EG , which i 2GH Therefore A can be divided as required .
Through V draw VQ parallel to LR ; cutting HFK in F , and SQT in Q. Draw GF , FD , EQ , QD .
Then , because the rectangle DGV is equal to the square of GH or GF , the triangles DGF and FGV are similar , the right angle GVF is equal to GFD , DF is a tangent , and V the vertexin HFK to the base LR .
Further , To A ( DG + GV ) add EG .
Then sq .
ESGH EG is equal to DE + GV ; whence sq .
ES = DEG + EGV + sq .
GH ( DGV ) , = DGE.+ sq .
EG + EGV + DGV , = DG +Gx EG +GV = DEV .
Since , then , the square of ES or EQ is equal to DEV , DQ ( as DF before ) is a tangent , and V the vertex in SQT to LR .
Q. E. D. EV and ED might have been found , instead of GV and GD ; mutatis mutandis : by making A equal to 5 ' ES --Gsq ' GH + EG , and the rectangle under its parts equal to the square of ES .
t II EucL .
prop. 3 .
'83 Additional Definitions for the Introductory Propositions .
Def. 4 .
Fig. 8 .
The points of concourse , of a trapezium , are the two points in which ( if at all ) the opposite sides , produced , meet respectively .
Thus : if ABCF be a trapezium , and if FA and CB meet in L , AB and FC in R ; the points of concourse are L and R. Def. 5 .
The connecting line is a right line joining the two points of concourse ; as LR .
And , if the figure be one inscribed in a circle , LR is cut in the dividing point D by a perpendicular from the center .
Def. 6 .
The near angle and the remote angle , of a trapezium having two points of concourse , are those , respectively , whose angular points have the least , and the greatest , perpendicular distances from the connecting line .
The two others are the mean angles .
Prop. VIII .
Fig. 8 .
The near angle , of an inscribed trapezium having two points of concourse , is greater than any of the others ; and the remote angle is less than any .
Thus : if the figure be as in def .
4 , and ABC be the near angle , AFC the remote ; ABC is greater than each of BAF , BCF , AFC ; which last is less than each of BAF , BCF .
Dem .
BAF , having * the supplement BCF , is equal to RCB ; and BCF to LAB .
Therefore ABC , an exterior angle of the triangles RCB and LAB , is greater than either of the mean angles at A and C : and their equals , RCB and LAB , being exterior angles of the triangles LFC and RFA , are severally greater than AFC .
Q. E. D. III EucL .
prop. 2z .
Cor. .
ABC is always obtuse , and AFC acute ; because their sum is two right angles : whence AC is not a diameter .
Cor , 2 .
BF , subtending the mean angles , is greater than the other diagonal .
For , if they be right angles , BF is a diameter .
If they be not , one is acute ; as BAF .
Then , since this is greater than AFC , the double of it , that is , an angle on BF at the centre , is greater than one on AC at the centre ; thereforef BF than AC .
Cor. 3 .
The greater diagonal , produced , cuts LR between L and R ; the less beyond L or R , if at all .
Cor ... The sides containing the remote angle , are greater than their opposites ; FC than AB , AF than BC .
For the triangle LAC is similar to LBF , and LCF to LAB .
Therefore LF is to LC as BF to AC ; whence LF is t greater than LC , and than LB .
But LF is to LB as FC to AB .
By the like proof , AF is greater than BC .
Prop. IX .
Fig. 9 .
The tangent-chord of each point of con course , of an inscribed trapezium , will , produced , pass through the other .
Thus : if L and R bethe points of concourse ; te tangentchord of L will pass through R , and that of R through t. Dem .
Let ABCF be the trapezium , ABC the near angle , AFC the remote , and L the concourse of FA and CB. Describe the circle ABL , meeting LR in D ; and draw AD , also the tangents LG , RS .
Then the angle LDA is equal to LBA , which , by the common supplement ABC , is equal to LFC or LFR ; whence the triangle LDA is similar to LFR , and the rectangle RLD equal to FLA , so to the square of LG .
But LRD is equal to ARB , so to the square of RS .
Therefore * III EL ... I EUCL .
p. C L. prop. 24 .
Cor. 2 .
MDcccxlv .
3 B the squares of LG and RS are together equal to RLD and LRD , so to the* square of LR ; whence the tangent-chord of L willit pass through R , and that of R through L. Q. E. D. Cor. 1 .
If E be the centre , V the vertex to LR taken as a base , and M the mean point , and if right lines be drawn or conceived , from L and R , to E , to V , to M ; LMR is a right angle , LVR obtuse , LER acute.4 Cor. 2 .
D is the dividing point . ?
Cor. 3 .
Each side of ABCF is a chord in a circle passing through the opposite point of concourse and the dividing point .
For , describe the circle FCL ; and let D be now the point in which this circumference cuts LR ; and draw DF .
Then the angle LDF is equal to LCF , so to LAR ; whence the triangle LDF is similar to LAR , and the rectangle RLD equal to FLA , and so to the square of LG , as before .
Therefore D , ash before , is the dividing point .
And a circle CBR would be proved as ABL , and FAR as FCL , to pass through that point .
Cor. 4 .
The diameter LI of ABL is perpendicular to FC , For , let them meet in K ; and draw ID .
Then the angle LID is equal to LAD , so to LRF or LRK ; whence LKR , as equal to LDI , is a right angle .
In like manner the diameter of FCL would be proved perpendicular to AB , that of CBR to AF , that of FAR to BC .
Prop. X. Fig. 9 .
If an inscribed trapezium have two points of concourse ; the connecting line is the base to which the mutual intersection of the diagonals is vertex in the inscribing circle .
Thus : if ABCF have L and R its points of concourse ; LR is the base to which V , the intersection of AC with BF , is vertex in the circle ABCF .
Dem .
Let ABC be the near angle , AFC the remote , E the centre , D the dividing point , and A in LF .
Draw ED , DA , DC , DB , DF .
Draw or conceive the circles ABDL &amp;c. Then , by ABDL , the triangle LDA is similar to LFR ; and , by CBDR , RDC to RFL : whence the angles LDA , RDC , are equal , and ADC is bisected by DE .
Further .
If BF be a diameter , it coincides with ED ; which t bisects the tangent-chord of D. Let it be not a diameter .
By the circle ABDL , the angle LDB has the supplement LAB , and is equal to BAF ; and , by FADR , RDF is equal to RAF or BAF : whence LDB , RDF , are equal ; also LDF , RDB ; and BDF is bisected by DE .
Therefore the tangent-chord of D is ?
bisected by AC and BF , in V. But ED bisects it : whence V is its intersection with ED , therefore t1 the vertex to LR. .
E. D. Cor. i. Fig. 5 .
If two sides , as GS and HT , be parallel ; a line KC parallel to them is the base .
For , let GH and ST meet in K , GT and SH in I. Then one diameter LR bisects GS and HT perpendicularly , and , produced , bisects the angle GKT or HKS ; whence GT and SH bisect the tangent-chord of K in I : which is perpendicular to LK or LR , and so is parallel to GS and HT ; whence KC is** base to the vertex I. Also GH and ST are equal .
Cor. 2 .
Fig. 9 .
DAEC , DBEF , are circles ; except BF be a diameter of the inscribing circle .
For the rectangle DVE is equal to the square of* half of the tangent-chord of D ; therefore to AVC , and to BVF .
Cor , 3 .
Fig. .
IfABCF be an inscribed trapezium , having V the mutual intersection of thediagonals , L and R the points of concourse , ABC the near angle , AFC the remote , and A in LF , and if FB and AC , produced , cut LR in I and K ; LK is to RK as LI to IR .
For , let LB and RB , produced , cut SP , drawn through V parallel to LR , in P and S. Then LK is to PV as CK to CV , asf AK to AV , as RK to SV ; whence LK is to RK as PV to SV , as LI to IR .
Cor. 4 .
Fig. io .
If to M , the mean point to the base LA , be drawn LM , IM , RM , and KM produced to any point X ; the angle IMK is bisected by MR , and IMX by ML .
For , on the diameter LR , and on the same side with the trapezium , describe the semicircle LNR , and draw IN perpendicular to LR .
Then KN , being drawn , is a tangent .
And , because LMR is ?
a right angle , M is in the circumference LNR ; whence Il the angles are bisected .
Cor. 5 .
Fig. 1o .
Or , if a base LK be cut in any two points I and K by chords , as FB and AC , through its vertex V , and M be the mean point ; the angle IMK is bisected by drawing either AB or FC , producing it to R in the base , and drawing MR. For AB and FC meet the base in one point : and the inscribed trapezium ABCF may be completed .
Also IMX might be bisected in a similar manner .
Cor. 6 .
Fig. 9 .
If any polygon , having an even number of sides , be inscribed in a circle , and its diagonals joining opposite ?
angles meet in one point V , not the centre ; the opposite sides will respectively meet , if at all , in points of the base to the vertex V. For any two opposite sides , as AB and FC , may be made the opposite sides of an inscribed trapezium having the same intersection of its diagonals .
If two opposite sides be parallel , the base is * parallel to them .
Cor. 7 .
Fig. 11 .
If ABCF and LR be as in the proposition , and if IK , KN , NO , OI , be tangents respectively at A , B , C , F ; the diagonals IN , KO , of the circumscribed figure IKNO , cut each other in the same point V as do those of ABCF , and are in the same indefinite lines as the tangent-chords of L and R. For , since AB the tangent-chord of K will pass through R , that of R will t pass through K ; likewise through 0 , whose tangent-chord is FC .
And it will pass through 4 V , and ?
L. In like manner the tangett-chord of L will pass through N , I , V , and R. Cor. 8 .
Fig. li Therefore the opposite sides of a circumscribed trapezium , if they meet , meet in points of the same indefinite base as that of such inscribed one ; namely , whose angular points are the points of contact of the circumscribed .
For the sides are tangents from chords through V. If two opposite sides be parallel , the base is parallel to them .
For , if IO and KN , which are tangents at F and B , were parallel , FB would be a diameter , and perpendicular to them : and , because it passes through V , it would be the diameter perpendicular to LR .
Cor. 9 .
Fig. l. Also , if a circumscribed polygon have an even number of sides , and its diagonals |l pass through one point V , not the centre ; the opposite sides , if they meet , meet respectively in * one base ; and it is the base in which those of such t inscribed one meet .
If two opposite sides be parallel , the base is parallel to them .
Prop. XI .
Fig. 12 .
If , in each of two circles having a common vertex to a given base , a chord be drawn through the vertex , and if , by joining the extremities of the two chords , a trapezium be formed having two points of concourse ; the base is the connecting line .
If two sides of the trapezium be parallel , they are also parallel to the base .
Thus : if , in BFT and ACK , BF and AC be chords through V the common vertex to the base LR , and if ABCF have two points of concourse ; these are in LR .
If FA and CB were parallel , they would be parallel to LR .
Dem .
Through V draw NO parallel to LR .
The opposite sides FA and CB , since they meet , cannot both be parallel to LR .
Let FA , produced beyond A , meet LR in L , and cut NO in N. Through L and B draw LO , cutting NO in 0 ; and draw LC , OC .
Then , by the circle BFT , NV and VO are equal .
And , because they are equal , then , by the circle ACK , AN ( or FA ) and OC produced will meet ?
in the base , therefore in L ; whence OC and CL are one right line OL ; of which , LB is part .
Therefore LBC is one right line , and La point of concourse .
In like manner , some point R of LR is the other point of concourse .
Therefore LR is the connecting line .
And since , if FA or CB meet LR , they are thus proved to meet each other , therefore , if they do not meet each other , neither of them meets LR ; that is , they are parallel to it .
Q.E.D. 3 Cor. .
If the two circles coincide , ABCF becomes an inscribed trapezium : and thus is obtained a separate proof of the tenth proposition .
* Cor. , .
If , in any numberf of circles having a common vertex and base , chords through the vertex be made diagonals of any trapeziums , inscribed or not ; such base is the locus of all the points of concourse .
Prop. XII .
Fig. 12 .
If a non-inscribed * trapezium have two points of concourse ; the connecting line is the base to which the mutual intersection of the diagonals is vertex in two circles , in each of which one diagonal is a chord .
Thus : if ABCF have LJ and R its points of concourse ; LR is the base to which V , the intersection of AC with BF , is vertex in the circles ACK and BFT .
Dem .
Let VD be the perpendicular on LR .
Let ABC be the near angle , AFC the remote , and A between L and F. Through V draw NO parallel to LR , and indefinite .
And let AC be first supposed to cut NO , and C to be nearer to LR than A is .
Let lines bisecting BF and AC perpendicularly cut DV in E and G. With the centres E and G describe the circles BFT and ACK .
In both , V is vertex to the base LR .
For two circles , through F and A respectively , can ?
be described , each having V its vertex to LR .
If these do not pass through B and C respectively , let them cut FB and AC in other points , X and Y ; and complete the trapezium AXYF .
Then FX and AY are chords throughV in two circles having V their common vertex to the base LLR ; -:whence YX produced will * meet FA in L. And FIE and AX cut NO , therefore are not parallel to LR , therefore 't not to each other , but mneet in a point of LR .
This they cannot do , unless X be at B and Y at C : for , since X and Y are such that YX is directed to L , FIE and AX will , if not passing through C( and B , either meet before they cut LR , or beyond it .
Therefore no two circles , passing through F and A respectively , except BFT and ACK , have V their common vertex to LR .
Therefore those two have .
Let now AC be conceived ?
to coincide with NO .
Then a circle , having its centre any point in DV indefinite , might pass through A and C. If a centre be found , in DV , ; by drawing DA or DC , and , :perpendicular to it , a. line from A or C cutting DV , then the circle will have V its vertex to LR ; because DA and DC will be tangents .
-Therefore , whether AC cut NO or not , LR is the base to , which V is vertex in the circles BFT , ACK .
Q. E. D. Cor. i. If FA and CB were parallel ; RL parallel to them would , be the base to which V would be vertex , in two such circles .
For , let VD be a perpendicular on LR ; and E , G , X , Y , as before .
Then , if YX could meet FA , it would be 1I in RL .
But RL does not meet FA .
Therefore YX does not ; but is parallel to FA and CB ; whence AX and FIE , which must ?
meet in LR , must pass through B and C , and therefore meet in R ; whence R is a point of the base to which V is vertex both in BFT and ACK .
And this base , being * perpendicular to the right line through E , G , and V , is RL .
Cor. 2 .
If ABCF be a trapezium ; one of those circles , as BFT , unless it coincide with ACK , includes it , and without contact .
Cor. I. If ABCF be a trapezium , either inscribed or not , having twio points of concourse , L and R ; the part NO , of the parallel to LR through V , intercepted between two opposite sides , is .
bisected in V. So between AB and FC .
Cor. 4 .
Fig. 13 ; the same as fig. i , so far as the letters are common .
If ABCF be a trapezium , inscribed or not , having two points of concourse L and R , and if FB and AC be the diagonals and V their mutual intersection , VD a perpendicular on LR , and right lines be drawn from D to F , B , A , C ; the angles BDF and ADC are ?
bisected by DV .
For the chord bisected in V is the tangent-chord of D , in each of the two circles of the proposition .
Cor. 5 .
Fig. 13 .
If FB and AC , produced , cut LR in I and K ; then FI is to BI as FV to VB , and AK to CK as AV to VC .
1J Cor. 6 .
Fig. 13 .
The connecting line of a trapezium , inscribed or not , is ?
divided harmonically in the four points L , I , R , K , in which it is cut by the produced sides and diagonals .
For the demonstration , of the corollary here referred to , may ( by the present proposition and its fifth corollary ) be applied to trapeziums not inscribed.** Cor. 7 .
Fig. 6 .
Hence , if L and R be the points of concourse of any conceived trapezium , whose diagonals produced cut the base in I between L and R , and in K beyond R , and if , :on the diameters LR and IK , be described the semicircles LNR and ITK , and if IN and RT be perpendicular to LR ; KN and LT , being drawn , are tangents.* Cor. 8 .
Fig. ix or 13 .
If the diagonals of a non-inscribed polygon , having an even number of sides , meet in one point ; the opposite sides will respectively meet , if at all , in the base to which that point is vertex in two or more circles .
For the proof applied + to the inscribed polygon may , now , be extended to the non-inscribed .
If two opposite sides be parallel , the base is .
parallel to them , End of the Introductory Propositions .
On the Elliptic Representation of a Circle , upon a plane surface , by Perspective .
Definitions .
Although the reader is presumed to be acquainted with the principles of perspective ; yet the definitions in that science have varied so much , that it may be right to prefix a few here .
Some new terms are also introduced .
Def. i. The centre of the picture is that point , in the indefinite plane of the picture , in which it is cut by a perpendicular from the eye .
Def. 2 .
The directing plane is a plane through the eye , parallel to the picture .
Def. 3 .
The intersecting line and directing line , of an objec* Cor. 3 to prop. YV .
t Cor. 6 to prop. X. X Cor. x to this prop , 374 tive plane , are those in which that plane is cut by the picture and directing plane respectively : and the centres of those two lines are the points in which they are cut by perpendiculars from the eye .
Def. 4 .
The intersecting point and directing point , of an objective line or of its representation , are those two points in which the objective line cuts the intersecting and directing lines respectively .
Def. 5 .
The director is a right line from the eye to the directing point .
Def. 6 .
The central line , in an objective plane , is a right line cutting the directing line perpendicularly in its centre .
Def. 7 .
The centroid , of an objective circle , is the point represented by the centre of the representing ellipse .
Def. 8 .
Conjugate chords are chords represented by conjugate diameters of the ellipse .
For brevity , the representation of any point A or line AB in any figure , is called a or ab ; although the a or ab should not appear in the figure : small letters every where denoting points in the picture , whether exhibited in the figures or not .
Each figure , after the first , represents , a single plane : which , except in fig. 4 and 7 , is the objective plane .
Prop. I. Fig. i. The perspective representation of an entire circle , is an ellipse.* Dem .
Let the circle ABC be an object , viewed by an eye placed at 0 .
Let FD be the plane of the picture , MR the directing plane , DE the intersecting line of the objective plane , and LR its directing line .
Conceive an indefinite line , passing always through 0 , to be moved round , along the circumference ABC .
A cone will thus be generated .
And the section of this cone by FD is the perspective representation of the circle .
But , since the circle is supposed to lie wholly beyond FD , from O , the plane MR , through 0 , parallel to FD , neither cuts nor touches the circle .
Therefore * the section is an ellipse .
Q. E. D. Cor. If the eye remain fixed , and FD be moved , parallel to itself , till it cut ABC ; then a part only of ABC is seen through FD : and its representation is part of an ellipse , and similar to the corresponding part of abc .
For a given figure will have similar projections , formed by the same lines OA , OB , &amp; c , on parallel planes.- .
Prop. II .
Fig. 2 .
The centroid of a circle is the vertex to the directing line taken as a base. .
Dem .
Let GTH be the circle , LR its indefinite directing line , and V its vertex to the base LR .
Then , whatever chord , as GH or ST , passes through V , its tangents meet ?
in a point of LR .
Therefore they have the same director , and their representations are jj parallel ; whence those of GH and ST are ?
diameters of the representing ellipse , and V is the centroid Q. E. D. Cor. .
Hence , from the directing line , the centro'id is found.** -* By the known properties of the cone .
See , in particular , prop. 81 , 8z , 83 , of Conic Sections by the Rev. T. Nw To , Fellow of Jesus ' College , Cambridge ; 1794 : which is the treatise referred to in subsequent notes .
t If the directing line touch or cut the circle , the representation is , accordingly , a parabola or hyperbola .
It is not the design of these propositions , to enter upon those cases .
They may be seen elsewhere : particularly in HAMILTON'S Stereogra .
phy ; where also are various particulars of the elliptic representation .
X See Def. 2 , of introductory Propositions . ?
Introd .
prop. I. [ ] BROOK TAYLOR'S Perspective , 1719 ; Cor. I to Theo .
V. ?
By conic sections .
A necessary converse of T. NeWTON'S prop. z8 .
** Cor. i to introd .
prop. 1 .
376 Cor..2 The centroid remains fixed , if the circle and directing line remain : although the eye move , in the same directing plane ; or the picture move parallel to itself ; or vary its angle with the circle , the eye so moving asto preserve the same directing line .
Prop. III .
Fig. t. In conjugate chords , each is the tangentchord of the directing point of the other .
Dem .
Let GH and ST be conjugate chords .
Produce them to their directing points R and L. Then , because st * and gh are conjugate diameters , st is f parallel to the tangents to the ellipse at g and h : whence the tangents to the circle at G and H have $ the same director , and the same directing point L , with ST ; or GH is the tangent-chord of L the directing point of ST .
In like manner ST is the tangent-chord of R the directing point of GH .
Q. E. D. Cor. i. If GH , the tangent-chord of any point L in the directing line , will cut that line in any point R ; L and R will be the directing points of conjugate chords .
For ST the tangent-chord of R will ?
pass through L ; whence the tangents to the ellipse at g and h are parallel to st. And those at s and t are parallel to gh .
Therefore st and gh are conjugate diameters .
Cor. 2 .
If M be the J1 mean point , and L and R the directing points of conjugate chords , LMR is ?
a right angle .
And , if LR be the directing line and LMR a right angle , L and R will be the directilg points of conjugate chords .
For the tangentchord of each point will pass ** through the other .
* See what is subjoined to the definitions , 0 By conic sections .
: A necessary converse of Cor. I. to Theo .
V of BROO K TAYLO . ?
Introd .
prop. III .
Introd .
prop. def .
3 .
q Ib .
prop. III .
Cor. 3 .
If therefore one chord through the centroid V were the diameter , consequently * perpendicular to LR and passing through M ; the conjugate chord would be parallel to LR , therefore bisected in V. Prop. IV .
If any right-lined figure , having an even number of sides , be inscribed in a circle , or described about one , and if its diagonals , joining opposite angles , pass through the centroid ; the opposite sides of the representation are parallel respectively .
Dem .
If the circle be parallel to the picture , the centroid is the centre , and all the respectively opposite sides , of the inscribed or circumscribed figure , are parallel ; therefore also their representations .
Let the centroid be another point .
The opposite sides f will meet , if at all , in the indefinite base to the centroid taken as a vertex , that is , in + the directin lin e of the objective plane .
If any two opposite sides will not meet , they are ?
parallel to the directing line .
Therefore , in all cases , the representations are parallel .
Q. E. D. Cor. This is applicable , mutatis mutandis , to non-inscribed figures , , Prop. V. Fig. 3 .
If the centre of an objective circle be in the central line of its plane one axis of the representing ellipse is parallel to the intersecting line , the other perpendicular .
Dem .
Let V be the centroid , A the centre of the directing line LR , and AO , in the central line , equal to the distance of A from the eye ; BF the diameter through V , and PQ the chord bisected in V. Then , since FA cuts the intersecting line ?
Cor. i , 2 , to introd .
prop. I. t Introd .
Irop .
X. and cor .
6 , 8 , 9 , t Prop. II . ?
lb. with cor .
i , 6 , 8 , 9 , of introd .
prop. X. 1l Introd .
prop. XII , and cor .
i and 8 .
378 perpendicularly in its centre , therefore ( by perspective ) fv is perpendicular to that line , and vq parallel : whence fq is a right angle .
But no two conjugate diameters are at right angles , except the axes .
Therefore bf and pq , always * conjugate diameters , are now the axes , Q. E. D. Cor. i. The perpendicular axis has ( by perspective ) its vanishing point in the centre of the vanishing line of the objective plane .
Cor. 2 .
It is also directed to the centre of the picture .
For the directing line is t perpendicular to that plane , through the eye , which is perpendicular to the objective and directing planes .
Therefore the central line is in that perpendicular plane : whence its indefinite representation is the common section of that plane with the picture ; which common section passes through the centre of the picture .
Cor , 3 .
If 0 be at the mean point M ( which is always t in BF ) , in which case the distance of A from the eye is equal to a tangent from A ; the representation is a circle , whose centre represents V. For , from the further extremity F of BF , draw FP ; also FQ , produced to R in LR .
Draw MR , OR , AQ .
Then , if AOR , revolving on ARE , bring O to the eye , AO and OR become the directors of fv and fq , therefore parallel to thim respectively ; whence the angle vfq is ?
equal to AOR , and the triangie vjq similar to AOR , wheresoever O is in AF .
But , if O be at M , AO is equal to ARE .
For the angle AQR is equal jI to FPQ , to FQP , to ARQ ; whence ARE is equal to AQ , so to AM ; therefore vq to vf , and the axes are equal : but V remains the centroid .
Cor. 4 .
If AO and AM be unequal , the axes are so .
If AO be greater than AM , the axis perpendicular to the intersecting line is the major axis if less , the minor .
Cor. 5 .
Fig. 4 .
If O be at the mean point , the section of the cone of rays is the subcontrary * section .
For , let ABF be as before , but O now at the real place of the eye ; so that fig. 4 shall be the plane in which are BF and its representation bf .
Draw AO , OF .
Then bf is parallel to its director AO .
And , since AO is equal to a tangent from A , its square is equal to the rectangle FAB ; whence the triangle FAO is similar to OAB , and the angle OFA or OFB equal to BOA , so to Obf .
Cor. 6 .
Fig. 4 .
If OFB and Obf be unequal , the axes are so .
If OFB be greater than Obf , the axis perpendicular to the intersecting line is the major axis ; if less , the minor.t For , if A and B and F be fixed , whilst , by the motion of the eye directly from or towards A , the angle OFB and the length AO are varied ; these will increase or decrease together , and Obf will accordingly decrease or increase .
Prop. VI .
Prob. I. Fig. 3 and 5 .
A circular object being given in magnitude , and in position with respect to the eye and the plane of the picture ; to find the axes of the representing ellipse .
Fig. 3 .
If the centre of the circle be in the central line of the plane , find ( by perspective ) bf , pq ; which are $ the axes .
Fig. 5 .
If it be not so placed , let the circle GTH be the object , and E its centre .
From the given position the directing plane is determined , and the directing line .
Let this line be LR , and A its centre .
Make a right angle LAO , on the same side of LA as the circle is ; and make AO equal to the distance of A from the eye .
Find V the * vertex to the base LR ; also Mt the mean point .
Draw OM ; and bisect it perpendicularly in Q , by QC cutting LR in C : and draw CO. In LR take CL and CR , each equal to CO ; and , through V , draw , towards R and L , the chords GH and ST .
Find gh and st , by perspective .
These are the axes .
Dem .
With the centre C and radius CO , describe the semicircle LOMR ; and draw LO , OR , LM , MR. Then , because V is t the centroid and LMR a right angle , gh and st are ?
conjugate diameters .
And they are perpendicular to each other .
For , if LOR , revolving on LR , bring O to the eye , OL and OR become the directors of st and gh , therefore parallel to them respectively ; whence the angle tvh is jJ equal to the right angle LOR .
But no two conjugate diameters are perpendicular to each other , except the axes .
Therefore gh and st are the axes .
Q. E. D. In practice , find ( by trial ) in the directing line a point C equidistant from O and M ; and , in the same line , take CL , CR , each equal to CO. And , if either L or R , suppose R , be at an inconvenient distance , the chord GH , directed to R , may be found as the tangent-chord of L. ?
Cor. i. Fig. 6 ; the same as Fig. 5 , so far as the letters are common .
One mode of finding the axes , after GH and ST found , is this , Draw GT , and produce it cutting LR in B. Draw OB ; also BK , cutting OR perpendicularly in K. Find , by perspective , gt , or gv , or vt ; and , upon the line so found , make a triangle gvt similar to OKB , having the angle g equal to 0 , and v to K. Then are gv and vt two selni-axes .
For R and B are the directing points of GV and GT .
Cort , .
Fig. 5 , 6 .
When E is not in the central line of the plane , neither GH nor ST is perpendicular to LR ; therefore neither axis tends to the centre of the vanishing line of the plane , Cor. 3 .
Fig. 5 , 6 .
Wheresoever O is in the arc LMR , the same chords GH and ST are the originals of the axes .
Cor , 4 .
Fig. 6 .
The major axis has its directing point on that side , of the central line AO , on which E is placed .
For , draw ML , MB , MR. Then , if O were at M , gv would be * equal to vt , and the angle vtg to tgv .
Therefore LMB is equal to BMR .
But , if O be in the arc between L and M , the angle LOB stands on a greater arc in the circle LMR than LMB does , and BOR on a less than BMR ; whence LOB , therefore OBK , is greater than BOK , OK than KB , and gv than vt .
Prop. VII .
Fig. 7 .
If the object be a sphere in any oblique position ; the major axis , of the representing ellipse , is directed to the centre of the picture .
Dem .
To a given sphere conceive any tangents drawn from O the eye .
The points of contact are in the circumference of a circle , whose representation ( as to the outline ) is that of the ' Cor. 3 to prop. V. t Or , without perspective , these angles are equal ; by Cor. 5 to introd .
prop. Xwhere they are ( fig. io ) IMR , RMK .
$ By oblique position is here meant any except that in which a right line , from the eye to the centre of the sphere , passes through the centre of the picture .
sphere , and whose plane is perpendicular to a line * from 0 through E the centre of that circle to the centre of the sphere .
If this line passed through the centre of the picture , such plane would be parallel to the picture , and the representation a circke .
But , let it not so pass .
Yet such plane is to be taken as the objective plane .
And , since E is in every plane perpendicular to it through the eye , and the central t line is in one such plane , and both are in the objective plane , E is in the central line .
Let FB , the diameter in that line , have B its extremity nearer to its directing point A , and be produced to A. Draw OF , OB , OA ; and let the representation fb meet FB produced in K. Then the angle OFB , being equal to OBF , is s greater than BbK or Obf .
Therefore the axes are unequal , and the major axis is directed to the centre of the picture . ?
Q.E.D. Cor. i. If the plane of a picture parallel to the former should cut off part of FB ; then the part viewed , of the circle or sphere , would have a representation 1j similar to its former one , and the major axis would still be directed to the centre of the picture .
Cor. 2 .
The centre of the picture is not the vanishing point of the major axis .
For FAO or FKf is not a right angle .
Lemma .
Fig. 8 .
No. x and 2 .
If original lines , in one plane , converge to a point ; their representations will converge to a point , or be parallel .
And , if the representations converge to a point ; the originals will so converge , or be parallel .
Dem .
Let the indefinite original lines CF , DG , EH , meet in P ; having C , D , E , their directing points , and F , G , H , their intersecting points .
From A the centre of the directing line , and towards FH , draw AO perpendicular to AD and equal to the distance of A from the eye .
Draw CO , DO , EO : which are the directors , brought down , into the original or objective plane , by the revolution of COO or the directing plane on CE .
Parallel to these draw lines through F , G , H : which will be the indefinite representations , brought down by the revolution of the picture on FH .
These indefinite representations will form , on FG and GH , triangles respectively similar to COD and DOE ; and perpendiculars from their vertices to FH will bear to OA the ratios of FG to CD and GH to DE .
But these ratios are equal , because FH is parallel to CE .
Therefore the perpendiculars are the same line KN , and the vertices are one point K. If P be in the directing line , by which C , D , and E , coincide with P ; there is only one director , and the representations are * parallel .
One part , then , is proved .
Now , let F , G , H , be the intersecting points , and FK , GK , HK , the indefinite representations , brought down as before : and let KN be a perpendicular on FH , and let AO be as before .
Draw OC , OD , O , parallel respectively to KF , KG , KH , and cutting the directing line in C , D , E ; and draw , indefinitely , CF , DG , EH .
These are the original lines represented ; because C , D , E , are the directing points , and F , G , H , the intersecting points .
From similar triangles , CD is to FG as CO to FK , as AO to NK , as EO to HK , as DE to GH ; or CD is to FG as DE to GH .
Therefore , if CD and FG be unequal , consequently DE and GH , then CF , DG , EH , will ?
BKoo TAYLOR ; Cor. t to Theo .
V. 384 meet in a point P , of DG , making PD to PG as CD to FG .
And , if CD and FG be equal , the three will either meet in a point equidistant from FH and CE , or be parallel .
Q. E. D. Cor. i. If the originals neither converge to a pointnor are parallel , the representations do not converge to a point .
Cor. 2 .
It is impossible , therefore , that the major or minor axes should so converge , of ellipses representing any circles ; unless the originals of the axes should in any case so converge or be parallel : which will only be , if the intervals between their intersecting points be proportional to those between the directing points .
* Prop. VIII .
Prob. II .
Fig. 9 .
The magnitude and positions being given , of any equal circles in one plane , having their centres in the central line ; to find a law which the axes , of the representing ellipses , observe in their directions .
One axis is t parallel to the intersecting line , the other perpendicular .
Let ARE , KI , AK , be the directing , intersecting , and central lines , indefinite ; AK passing through the centres of the circles i , ii , iii , and any others such as supposed .
Conceive O ( not in the figure ) at the real place of the eye .
AO may be equal to a tangent from A to some one circle , or not .
Let the ii be so placed .
This alone will be 4 represented by a circle : those ?
between KI and ii by ellipses whose minor axes are parallel to KI , and major axes directed to the centre of the picture ; those beyond ii by ellipses whose major axes are parallel to KI , and minor axes directed to the centre of the picture .
This , then , is a law observed .
Cor. 1 .
The law holds in unequal circles , when all nearer and further than ii have , respectively , their mean points nearer and further than that of ii : because the distance of the mean point from A is equal to the tangent .
But the inequality may be such as to destroy this supposition .
Cor. 2 .
If AO be less than AK , therefore less than the parallel and equal line ( OS in Fig. 4 ) which is the distance of the vanishing line from the eye* , and if the mean point of the nearest circle be beyond the picture ; then all the major axes are parallel to KI , all the minor directed to the centre of the picture .
Cor. 3 .
When it is known which axis is parallel to KI , then , if one point of either be given , its direction is got by drawing a line to the centre of the picture , or else a line parallel to KI .
Cor. 4 .
The extremities of the axes parallel to KI , are bounded by the following limits .
Let PQ be the tangent-chord of A in the nearest circle , and GH the parallel diameter ; G and P being on one side of AK .
If lines be drawn through G and P , parallel to AK , their representations are the boundaries of the extremities on that side of AK ; and the like on the other side .
For PQ is the original of the axis : and the corresponding chord is greater , as the circle is more distant ; but always less than the diameter .
Prop. IX .
Prob. III .
Fig. lo .
To find the same , when the centres are in a line parallel to the central line .
Let one rank of equal circles so placed be i , ii , i , &amp;c. ; let another be ix , x , xi , &amp;c. : all having their centres E , E , &amp;c. From the directing line AN , find the centroids V , and the mean points M , in as many circles as may be requisite .
On the same side of AN as the circles are , take AO , in the central line , equal to the distance of A from the eye ; and make A the centre of a circle ON .
In either rank , as i , ii &amp; c , if all the mean points be without ON , find * the directing point L of the minor axis of i the nearest circle .
By the construction , the directing points of the minor axes for all the circles ii , iii , &amp; c , will be between L and A. Draw LO .
In the plane of the picture place the triangle LOA , or any similar triangle , in the same situation with regard to the indefinite intersecting line , or some parallel line , as LOA has here with regard to the directing line .
Then t will all the minor axes , for ii , iii , &amp; c , be respectively parallel to lines drawn from points in the base of such triangle to its vertex corresponding with 0 ; each of such points will be nearer to the point corresponding with A , as the circle is further from the directing line ; and the approach to A ( and to its corresponding point ) will be without limit , while circles are added .
This , then , is a law observed by the minor axes : to which the major will be perpendicular , respectively .
If the circles be unequal , the law holds good ; unless the inequality cause the mean point of a further circle to be not further than that of a nearer circle .
If the angle LOA be inconveniently large , find also the directing point F for the circle ii .
Then all the directing points , for iii , &amp; c , will be between F and A. Or , in some cases , find the directing point G for the furthest of the ranik : and then the directing points , for all between i and the furthest , will be between L and G. The use of the law found , is this .
When , in practice , it would be tedious to find * accurately , in position and length , the axes for each circle ; the artist may , by this law , know pretty nearly the directions of the axes for all the circles , of the rank for which he has constructed the triangle LOA or FOA .
Those axes , howsoever seldom they may converge t to a point , are always parallel to lines which do .
In addition , he may find , by perspective , such particular points as any case may suggest .
If ST be the diameter perpendicular to the directing line , st is readily found : which passing through v , so being a diameter of the ellipse , its middle point is one point in each axis .
Or , some centroids V may be found ; whence the elliptic centres v , by easy operations of perspective .
If the circles are equal , it may suffice , after V found in a few of the nearest circles , to take the remaining lines EV ( in the same rank ) equal , or to diminish them by the view .
And , if the circles ( in each rank ) be also at equal intervals , their centrdids may often be considered as at equal intervals ; or , after a few of the nearest .
Whence the points v , with increased facility .
If the mean point in any circle , as ix , be within ON , find the directing point R of the major axis : which may be more convenient than that of the minor , as nearer $ to A. But this case cannot happen , with the mean point lying beyond a picture perpendicular to the objective plane ; unless the perpendicular distance ( by the scale assumed for any delineation ) of that plane from the eye be greater than the distance of the picture .
If a figure , constructed as fig. 1o , happen to be inconveniently large , it may be constructed upon a reduced scale .
The triangles LOA &amp;c. remain similar , each to itself ; whence the directions of the axes are the same .
Prop. X. Prob. IV .
Fig. 11 .
To find the same , when the centres are in a line parallel to the picture .
Of the circles i , ii , &amp; c , let the centres be E , E , &amp;c. ; let AO and ST be as in Prop. IX , and D , D , the directing points of ST .
In one circle , find the centroid V and the mean point M. Through these draw lines parallel to AD : whiph will cut the other lines ST in the points V and M of all .
Let the parallel through M cut AO , or AO produced , in F. First case .
Let AO be less * than AF .
Let ii be so placed , that OD , being drawn , may equal DM or AF .
Find G the directing point of the minor axis for ii ; and draw GO .
Transfer t GOA to the picture ; ( or place therein a similar triangle .
) Then the minor axes , for all the circles on the same : side of AO as ii is , are parallel to lines from points of GA to 0 ; and , the nearer any such circle is to ii , on either side of it , the nearer will the axis be to parallelism with GO .
Nor is there any limit to the approach to parallelism with GO , or , reversely , with AO .
This , then , is a law observed .
For the circle OM * has the shortest radius when its centre is at the D of ii .
That radius is increased , whether M ( always in the parallel through F ) be taken between F and the M of ii , or beyond that M ; and the circumference cuts GA between G and A , approaching to A as the radius is increased .
And both the increase of the radius and the approach of the circumference to AO are without limit , while circles are added .
The i and iv are so placed , in the figure , as to have the same directing point for their minor axes : C being the centre of OMM .
Second case .
Let AO be AF .
Produce AG to H , making AH equal to AF .
Then , the nearer M is to F , the less is the radius of the circle OM or FM ; never less than AF .
At the same time , its centre is the nearer to A , and the directing point of the minor axis is the nearer to H : which approaches may be made without limit .
Place , as before , in the plane of the picture , a triangle ; now HFA , or one similar .
The minor axes will be parallel to lines from the base of such triangle to its vertex : each , as its circle is further , being nearer to a right angle with the intersecting line ; and without limit .
This is a law observed .
If requisite , find accurately the directing points of the minor axes for a few circles nearest to AF : or for one ; as N for iv .
In HFA , transferred to the picture , mark N. Then , for all the circles nearer than iv , the minor axes will be parallel to lines from points between H and N ; and , for all beyond iv , between N and A. In this second case , if M be at F , the representation is *a circle .
Third case .
Let AO be greater than AF .
With the centre A describe a circle LOR ; cutting AD in R on the same side of AO with the objective circles before given , and in L on the other side .
Then , * if one of those circles , as ii , have its man point in the circumference OR , the directing points of the two axes are L and R. And , for any circle between'ii and AO , the directingpoint of the major axis is between R and A , and nearer to A than that of the minor is ; which is beyond L. And , for all circles beyond ii , the directing points of the minor axes are between L and A. Draw LO , RO .
Then LOA , ROA , or triangles similar to them , transferred to the picture , as t GOA in the first case and HOA or HFA in the second , give lines to which the axes will be respectively parallel : and , of the minor axes , each , as its circle is further , is nearer to a right angle with the intersecting line ; and without limit .
This is a law observed .
Any requisite approximation to accuracy may be made ; by the mode used in the second case , when N was found .
A figure , constructed as fig. 1 , may , if required , be reduced by a scale.t Prop. XI , and last .
Prob. V. Fig. i , 13 .
To find the same , when the centres are in a right line oblique to the intersecting line of the plane .
Fig. i 2 .
If the circles had been so placed that ( insteadof the centres ) the mean points , M , M , &amp; c , were in such line having any directing point X ; a law observed would have been as follows .
Let LR be the directing line ; and let AO be as before , but less than AF , and in F let AO produced meet XM .
With the centre A describe a circle , having the diameters ON , LR ; L being on the same side of A with X : and let XM be wholly out of LOR .
In FM take FP towards X , and FQ the contrary way , each a mean proportional between FN and FO ; and draw PC and QK , perpendicular to PQ , cutting the directing line in C and K. Let the circle PG with the radius CP cut LR in G towards R , and let the circle QH with the radius KQ cut it in H towards L. Let the M nearest to X be between X and P. In the directing line find the centre W of a circle passing through O and this M , cutting FM in U also , and LR in I beyond A. Then , for circles whose mean points are U and the M nearest to X , the directing point of the minor axis is I. If a circle move , and so that its mean point shall move in XM ; then , while this moves from that M to P , and on from P to U , the directing point of the minor axis moves accordingly from I to G , and back from G to I. While the mean point moves from U to F , from F to Q , then beyond Q without limit , such directing point , accordingly , moves from I to A , then from A to H , then approaches to A without limit .
From these directing points triangles may be constructed* , and transferred to the plane of the picture ; giving lines parallel , as before , to the minor axes .
Such , then , would have been a law observed , if the mean points had been in a right line .
For , describe the circles PON , QON .
Their centres are +C and K. Therefore they are the circles PG and QH ; that is , the circles OM t with mean points at P and Q. Now , since all the circles OM have ?
their centres in the directing line , and since , if a centre were assumed between C and K , the circumference through O could not meet XM , no centre is between C 'and K ; and CP is the shortest radius , and , when M is beyond F , KQ is the shortest ; and , the further ally centre W is beyond C , the more does its circumference fall within the circle POGN at OIN , and the more without it elsewhere .
And the like beyond K. Therefore , as the mean point moves from the first M to P , the circles OM become smaller , and cut LR in points further beyond A ; which are the directing points of the minor axes ; and the reverse takes place , while the mean point moves from P to U , and so on to F. As it approaches to F , the radius of OM increases without limit .
When it is at F , the arc OM becomes a right line ; which passes through A : whence the minor axis is * perpendicular to the intersecting line .
While the mean point moves from F to Q , then beyond Q , the radius of OM decreases to KQ , then increases without limit ; and the intersection of the circumference OM with LR moves from A to H , then approaches to A without limit .
The cases of AO equal to AF and greater , bear a resemblance to the second and third cases of Prop. X ; and are not perhaps sufficiently frequent , in practice , to justify an exami , nation here .
And , whatever be the length of AO , if any mean point fall within LOR , it is to be remenbered that the directing point of the major axis is then nearer to A than is that of the minor .
Fig. 13 .
Now let the centres E , E , of the objective circles , be in a right line .
Let LR and AO be as before ; also the diameters .
ST perpendicular to the directing line ; D , D , being their directing points , B that of the line through the centres , and H that of the line through the points T , the nearer extremities of ST .
Let one of the circles have its centre in the central line ; let F be its mean point , and AO less than AF .
Let the circles i , ii , and any others , be on the same side of AO with B ; and ix &amp; c , on the other .
Take any one , as circle ii , and draw TH ; also HN , parallel to Dr , cutting BE in N ; and produce HB to Q , making BQ equal to HB .
Then DT is to DH as DE to DB , as HN or TE to HB , as ES to BQ ; whence DT is to DH as DS to DO , and the rectangle SDT or the square of DM to QDH as the square of DT to that of DH , therefore as that of HN to that of HB .
This is *a property of the hyperbola .
Therefore all the points M are in the curve of an hyperbola , whose transverse axis is QH and conjugate axis equal to twice HN , that is , to a diameter ST ; having the vertex H , and the t asymptote BE .
What follows is an attempt to make such approximation , to some law or regularity observed in the directions of the axes , as may be of use without constructing the hyperbolic curve.t As to the remoter circles , it may often be sufficiently accurate , in practice , to consider their mean points as in a right line ; either drawn through one of them , parallel to BE , or drawn from F to the mean point of the furthest .
So far as this can be admitted , the theory already laid down , respecting mean points in a right line , is to be taken also as the law or laws observed where the centres are so placed .
If , in any case , one such line be not sufficiently accurate for all the circles beyond F ( from B ) , two such lines may be assumed , at different distances from BE ; the one nearer to BE being for the remotest circles .
As to mean points between F and H , yet not within the circle LOR with the centre A ; find the minor axes , each separately , for as many , of the nearest to I , as requisite .
If any remaining circles on that side of AF , as ii &amp; c , should seem better referred to some law observed ; then , with the centre W equidistant from 0 and the M of i , describe a circle MOI cutting the directing line in I beyond A. If any mean point be within this circle , the directing point of the minor axis is beyond I. And , if any other objective circle have its mean point U in the circumference MOI , or if U in MOI can be found as the mean point of a circle purposely added or supposed ( of the given magnitude , and having its centre in BE ) , then any mean points between that M and U will have the directing points of the minor axes beyond I. If how much beyond be inquired ; the points P and G may be found , as ( fig. 12 ) when the mean points were in a right line : and G will be a limit beyond which , at least , the directing points cannot go .
And U will perhaps frequently be found with sufficient accuracy , if taken as the intersection of the right line MF with MOI .
-If the mean point come to U , the directing point returns to I ; and if the mean point move from U to F , the directing point moves from I to A Triangles constructed as * before , and transferred to the picture , will give lines which may be taken as parallel to the axes ; though with some abatement from strict accuracy .
But such is a law , or laws , which may be considered as observed , when the centres are in a right line .
As to the cases of AO being AF and greater , and that of mean points within the circle LOR with the centre A ; it seems unnecessary to add to what was said in concluding that part , of this proposition , in which the mean points were supposed to be in a right line .
Since the axes of the hyperbola are given in length and position , it could be described .
And its intersections with the diameters ST would give all the mean points .
Whether this would aid the perspective operations so much as to compensate for the labour of constructing the curve , I leave to others to examine .
RICHARD HEY .
March 84 Hertingfordbu ry , near Hertford .
396 i i &gt; 4 : ii t.CS`~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NN j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ______N ii j~ ~~~ ' -----I !
i--'i~ C ' IH i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ii t ?
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ " / c ?
~'~-z/ J~ ?
'~if 41/ .1~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~_ - ... ._ .
A~_____--~.~..~ -~ .
, ~.~~.-.1--~-1.---~ ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
-------.11 .
I_~~ '~~~"~-`--- ' '~~ ... ..1_1~~~~~ .
1~_1.~ ~ ~_~-I_-----

