254 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
Phenomena [ May f as that of " brittle " zinc , and the lines of fracture ran across the crystals revealed on the changed surface in such a way as to show that these crystals seen on the surface are not a thin superficial layer , but genuinely represent the entire structure of the metal .
I am therefore led to the conclusion that the action is simply one of recrystallisation .
The metal in the state in which it reaches us in ion or crucibles , \amp ; c. , is in a condition of severe strain , having been bent drawn , rolled , \amp ; c. , either in the cold or at temperatures far below its " annealing " temperature .
This is supported by the fact that the platinum in its " unchanged " state shows a very minute structure characteristic of severely strained metals .
The natural effect of exposure to a high temperature of metal in such a condition is to allow it to recrystallise , and this I conceive to be what occurs in the case of platinum .
The brittleness of the " annealed " metal is not at all surprising , as the same phenomenon occurs with zinc and cadmium ( see paper cited above ) .
In the case of platinum " annealed " in a gas flame there is , however , a further action * simple annealing or recrystallisation , although it will completely alter the interior structure of a piece of metal , will not of itself alter the appearance of the surface even in microscopic detail .
To develop a surface pattern corresponding to the changed internal structure the surface must be etched after the recrystallisation has taken place .
The etching action is in this case undoubtedly due to the gases of the flame , and the temporary formation of a carbide may play a part in this process .
" On some Phenomena affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves over the Surface of the Sea and Earth .
" By Captain H. B. Jackson , R.N. , E.R.S. Received May 1 , \#151 ; Read May 15 , 1902 .
In 1895 , systematic experiments were commenced by me with a view of utilising the effect of Hertzian waves on imperfect electrical contacts , for naval signalling purposes .
I soon observed that some unexpected phenomena were deterrent ; factors in obtaining the necessary accuracy at all times , and with the most modern and improved instruments that we now possess , this is equally noticeable .
The results of some of the phenomena are described in this paper , with the conclusions that I have drawn as to their cause .
Some of the experiments described were specially conducted with the object of elucidating definite results on the subject .
Other experi-\#151 ; ments carried out with a different object , and also ordinary practical signalling at various times , also gave the results described , without in f-1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
255 any way detracting from their value on account of the main object in view being at the time of a different nature .
One of the great difficulties in accurately comparing results , separated by even the shortest intervals of time in wireless telegraphy , is , un- ' doubtedly , in having to depend on an imperfect electrical contact for | the comparison , as even the best coherers , as they are now generally } termed , cannot be depended upon to give absolutely similar consecu- ; tive indications , under similar conditions of excitation ; and in the filings coherer , for instance , which I have chiefly used , the probability is infinitesimally small that the filings will rearrange themselves identically , in any two successive signals , taking into account the shaking to which they are subjected immediately following the reception of an excitation ; though the practical results obtained with those of good manufacture might almost lead one to an opposite opinion , owing to the accuracy with which signals are generally recorded .
Careful observation over an extended period has led me to the conclusion that the error arising from this cause in the experiments described does not exceed 5 per cent. , i.e. , in any one hundred consecutive signs in a series of signals , ninety-five of them will be accurately recorded at the distance where the excitation is nearing the limits at which it will affect the coherer .
At shorter distances , with moderately strong excitations , the error is much less , probably less than 1 per cent. Experiments conducted under favourable circumstances , withi the object of obtaining the percentage of accuracy , have frequently1 confirmed this .
The method used to carry this out was to select a. long signal whose details were known , and count the errors in tho number of signs composing the signal .
Though a possible error of 5 per cent , in any experiment may , in systematic comparative trials , or quantitative analysis , appear large* this error may be considered to be eliminated when the mean of a considerable number of excitations is taken , and the results judged by the general effect , which was whether or no excitations were received at a given distance for a considerable period of time .
For instance s the experiments , as a rule , consisted in one station sending signals consecutively for ( say ) 2 minutes , at the rate of 100 signs a minute .
If these signals were received correctly , or nearly so , the receiving station was considered to be within the limits at which signals could be received under those circumstances ; if only 50 to 90 per cent , of the-signs were received , it was considered at.the extreme limit of signalling-distance ; if 20 to 50 per cent , were received , it was considered to be just outside the limits ' ] if less than 20 per cent. , or , as frequently occurred , no signs were received , it was considered to be beyond the limits of signalling .
In the two latter cases , careful inquiry and examination of the records of the transmitting station were always made to prove that the signals had actually been sent at that time .
At the con-- " 256 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
Phenomena [ May 1 !
elusion of the 2 minutes , the receiving ship , by means of a short prearranged signal , acknowledged the signals , if received , and stated whether they were clear or broken , or if none had been received .
To still further reduce any chance of error , two coherers , or , rather two complete receivers , were generally used ; they were adjusted to be of equal sensitiveness , or nearly so , and they were used alternately , for about 15 seconds each , or else together , in parallel .
Local excitation of these coherers was also frequently resorted to , as by this means , if the filings have by chance rested in an insensitive position , their excitation and shaking gives the possibility that they may rearrange themselves more sensitively .
The experiments recorded have , with few exceptions , been carried -out under my own personal supervision at one of the stations , and the recording tapes of the receivers were invariably compared with j the written notes and log of the transmitting stations , at the earliest I opportunity afterwards .
The distances up to which I have carried out experiments , reach I 140 nautical miles .
In my early experiments , before wireless tele- , graphy had developed into its present stage , the distances were comparatively short , though the results were equally instructive .
In the tables of records , in addition to stating the actual distances , the results are compared to a maximum distance of 100 , which represents that obtained at sea under the same circumstances , but without the .
disturbing causes whose effects were under consideration at the time : j so the percentage of loss of distance , under varying circumstances , j may be easily compared .
The trials were all carried out under practical sea-going conditions , and though these may militate against the absolute accuracy obtainable in laboratory experiments , they may eliminate some errors which may affect the observations of Hertzian waves in a closed building , such as the reflection of the waves from the surrounding walls .
The instruments used were those constructed on what is generally known as the Marconi System , and were either supplied by his company or made to my design for the Admiralty ; these types only differ in details .
As a rule , for transmitting signals , an aerial wire or wires were .
attached to one of two spark balls fitted to an induction coil , the other ball being earthed ; when , however , my system of syntonic transmission was used , the connection of the aerial was not as above ; this system is indicated by inserting ( T ) against the results .
The induction coils employed have been those capable of giving a 10-inch spark between points in dry air .
In all the experiments herein detailed , a jigger , i.e , , a small transformer , was used in the aerial wire of the receiving instruments .
The aerial wires of all ships and stations were tuned as closely as possible to the same natural frequency of oscilla1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
257 tion , and the jiggers were constructed to receive signals at the maximum distance corresponding to the power and frequency used at the transmitting station .
The fundamental wave-length was that adopted in H.M. 's service , except when my syntonic system was used , in which case large variations in the wave-lengths were tried .
Syntonic wireless telegraphy , however , is not considered in this paper .
The results , when tabulated , demonstrate the loss in distance that may be experienced when signalling by means of wireless telegraphy under varying conditions of the atmosphere , and the environment of the ship as regards land compared with the distance obtained under favourable conditions in the open sea .
In fact , * they show some of the causes which may affect the transmission of waves of electrical induction from an aerial wire over the surface of the globe .
The causes are treated in the same order as I observed them in the practical work of wireless telegraphy , and the first case that I consider is the effect of intervening land on the distance at which signals can be recorded .
This effect , without any recorded exception , is to reduce the maximum distance of signalling from that recorded in the open sea by an amount depending upon the thickness , contour , height , and nature of the land .
The curvature of the Earth and its effect on the waves is not taken into account , as at the distances covered in these experiments no effect has been noticed , though carefully watched for when signalling with stations high above the sea-level .
The effects of intervening land are shown for a few typical and well-authenticated cases , and where no other cause or known source of error existed , in the form of diagrams and tables .
In the latter the heights of the mastheads or aerial wires are indicated , also the distance of the intervening land from the ship nearest to it , \amp ; c. The particulars of the land , the distances at which signals could just be clearly received , and the ratio of the distances at which signals were obtained over water under identical circumstances , and generally on the same day , are also inserted .
The diagrams illustrate these details graphically , and show the general contour of the land and its strata .
The vertical scale has been greatly exaggerated over the horizontal one , in order to present these data more clearly , and the ratio of the vertical to the horizontal scale is either 25 or 12\#163 ; , except in Nos. 4 and 5* where it is 32 .
VOL. LXX .
258 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
Phenomena [ May I An examination of these results shows the marked difference between the effects due to the various natures of the intervening land .
Summarising them for soft rocks , hard limestone , and limestone containing a large proportion of iron ores respectively , the percentage of maximum signalling distance through them compared to the open-sea distance is as follows Soft sandstone , shale , \amp ; c. Hard limestone .
Iron ores .
Max. distance ... ... ... 81 68 Less than 40 Min .
" ... ... .
56 25 " 23 Mean .
, ... ... ... 72 58 " 32 Consider , firstly , the soft rocks:\#151 ; The two maxima percentages of distance ( 81 and 80 ) are over rather low land of no great thickness .
the minimum , 56 per cent. , is over high land , half as thick again as in these cases .
Og-t .
Distance in nautical , miles . ?
Represents the positions of the ships at tnaocimum signal distance at sea .
Ah hu u u u / / / / " u with intervening band .
Reference as to formation of Land .
Sandstone .
Limestone .
State 4 Shale .
Limestone 4 Iron ores .
Fig. a. jpoo- Secondly , the limestone:\#151 ; The maximum percentage ( 68 ) is over the thinnest layer recorded of limestone ( 3 b ) , the minimum ( less than 25 ) is over a precipitous high mountain through which no signals could be passed at any distance , though they were obtained without difficulty over a low promontory of the same island and of the same formation , when both ships had moved to such positions as to bring the low instead of the high land between them ( figs. 3h and 1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
\lt ; D \gt ; O H o .Xjj *-4 Percentage of maximum distance over land to over sea .
I 81 73 77 !
d a 3 \amp ; S \#166 ; - I Over the land .
miles .
50 45 50 '35 * \amp ; .
fH GQ At sea .
miles .
62 62 1 65 Heiglit of aerial wire above sea .
t-g \#163 ; S \#171 ; H. r-l ** Particulars of the land .
Surface .
Pasture , wet do .
... ... .
Buildings , dry Formation , strata , \amp ; c. Shale Sandstone and slate ... .
Porous sandstone ... ... Total thick- ness .
miles .
4 7 21 Maxi- mum height .
feet .
150 250 200 Distance from the i land .
1 miles .
2 li 130 yards Height of aerial wire above sea .
feet .
158 158 125 Refer- ence number .
rH r\#151 ; i C^l 1 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
On so Phenomena [ May I , Distance in nauticaL mites .
No si\amp ; na .
Ls \gt ; obt\lt ; 3 ina.bte .
F 1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric .
261 Percentage of maximum distance over land to over sea .
80 68 60 64 68 56 60 Very small .
\#169 ; a S B3 c| ,2 Over the land .
miles .
20 17 15 16 17 14 15 No signals .
J-S S 'a Sg , .a At sea .
miles .
25 Height of aerial wire above sea .
feet .
160 125 Particulars of the land .
Surface .
Cultivated , wet ... .
do . . . . .
do .
... .
do .
... .
Bare and dry , with scrub do .
f do .
1 do .
Formation , strata , \amp ; c. Porous coral sandstone. .
Do .
over limestone .
... do . .
.\#171 ; .
do .
Gritstone and marl ... .
do . . . . .
Semi-crystalline limestone Total thick- ness .
miles .
6 6 8 7 6 9 Maxi- mum height .
feet .
250 500 700 500 1083 1400 120 5250 Distance from the land .
250 yds .
220 500 1000 3 miles 4 3* 1 to 24 Height of aerial wire above sea .
feet .
125 160 Refe- rence number .
Capt. H. B. Jackson .
On Phenomena [ May W Thirdly , the rocks containing iron ores :\#151 ; In all these cases a greater loss of proportional distance is recorded than in the others\#151 ; and it was exceptional to receive any signals at all\#151 ; and the best result recorded in several trials was but 39 per cent , of the open sea distance ( fig. 5V so 1,000= 300 ] / poo- 300- ao No * signals .
The results shown in fig. 6 are the most conclusive that I have obtained in proving the screening effect of hard rocks containing iron ores on the passage of electric waves through land .
The pinnacle of rock shown therein represents an extremely precipitous , narrow , but high promontory jutting out from the mainland and rising abruptly out of the sea , to which it is steep to , so that the ship could pass close to it in perfect safety at a distance of about 100 yards .
To ascertain the effect of this wedge-like obstruction , the ship was steered close to the land , and her position was carefully noted when signals ceased or commenced .
These signals were being sent con- , tinuously from another vessel ( distant 18 miles ) during the whole period of the trials , the letter F ( ------------- , in Morse Code ) being 1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
0 S ' SP 2 \lt ; \#187 ; W d f.ss1I 1 3 \#163 ; 4 fe g .23 g \#174 ; H , s H , o s o SQ 0 ; TP 5 ) .
.a g 3 S S -I g.2 !
cb^ \#166 ; -a 5 , -4-\#187 ; 73 o rfi fi ( i H a-8f-* CO c\#163 ; \#163 ; ^ C3 C3 CO -4-5 H " S S\#171 ; ft fl. S !
J3 * \#163 ; .5 m\#171 ; w w .S* S \#163 ; 3 rS eg 'c3 PM .B GO " S ?
rcT -2 o d n3 d os ' \#166 ; 8 \#163 ; 00 O '\#166 ; S a g \#163 ; oo H3 O Pn jD rfj o .S o O C3 i-^ 00 45 O 00 O *2 0\gt ; Hrg a ill S a ,2 go S \#171 ; a w\gt ; o o h3 CO \#171 ; T* \#166 ; si1 \#163 ; d S-j h3 , a o h3 8 8 lO 00 Q s a \#169 ; t5 J ft 9 S ' oo ?
fill i SS-l 4 i\lt ; 5 ^ .
o O O ' 10+00 CM pH CO r-i 264 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
Phenomena [ May f made by her at the rate of twenty-five per minute by my syntonic transmitter .
The results showed that the signals ceased and commenced abruptly at the moment that the aerial wire passed the tangent from the transmitting ship to the edge of the cliff ; the action was so abrupt , -that , on one transit , the latter part of the long sign in the " F " was the first indication of signals that was received ; and on another transit , in the opposite direction , the long of the " F " was the last sign received , the short being dropped ; these were unusual results , as the signals generally die away gradually , the long signs breaking up , thus : ( . . . . . .
) , and the shorts appearing as dots ( .
) , before any signs are actually lost .
Another point that may now be considered , is the case shown in fig. 45 , when signals could not be exchanged when the ship was close under the land , but could be when clear of the land and in the same direction as before ; the trial was repeated on several occasions for verification .
Possibly the case previously considered , fig. 6 , is of the same class , as it is noteworthy , that when the ship was further off the promontory and also from the transmitting ship , though the two ships were still masked by high land of much greater thickness than before , a few stray signals were received occasionally , which evidently passed over , not round , and not through the land , as the ship was then in a landlocked bay .
Referring now to figs. 3e and 3/ , where the intervening land was both higher and thicker , and yet did not stop signals at longer proportional distances , it may be concluded that the waves of electrical induction , which must pass from ship to ship in order to record signals , may in certain cases pass through the land .
Fig. 2 is a good example of this : one of the ships was lying alongside a perpendicular cliff of considerable height , and yet only experienced a loss of distance of about 12 per cent. Fig. 8a gives a typical case of waves passing through valleys , and the results were so marked and so frequently repeated with different ships and on separate occasions that eventually the track of a vessel , proceeding at a known speed , could be roughly estimated , though distant 25 miles , by noting the intervals between the times when signals were lost and when received , and comparing these intervals with the time taken by the ship to cover the distances between the valleys , which were well delineated on the chart , and through which the waves could evidently wind their way with less obstruction than by any other route .
We have thus obtained evidence that the waves of electric induction may pass ( 1 ) through land , ( 2 ) over land , ( 3 ) round land , but that a large proportion of their energy is lost in doing so .
( 4 ) That the 1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
265 \#171 ; prpening effect of the land varies with its nature , and is greater for iron ores than for limestone alone , and that for this latter , it is greater 4an for soft rocks .
No effects which could he attributed to interference of waves , due to reflection from a hilly background , have been ' recorded by me .
'^sltfas my experiences go , these effects are much noticed in temperate than in sub-tropical regions .
In the Mediterranean Basin"hey seem to be particularly prevalent , and most per- sistent in summer and autumn .
, .
Owing to their sudden advent and their equally sudden cessation , it is most difficult to carry out systematic or pre-arranged experimens _ _ \#151 ; \lt ; .
r\#187 ; ____\#151 ; fA nronAT*\#163 ; l.l OnSfirYBitlOIlS \amp ; S DO is most difficult to carry out systematic or pre-arranged exper , and I must therefore confine my remarks to general observations as to their effects in various parts of the Mediterranean Sea .
Capt. H. B. Jackson .
On s Phenomena [ May 1 1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
267 X The first case is that due to the effects of lightning discharges , which may or may not be visible at the station where its effects are noticed .
As a rule , with the instruments in normal adjustment , the effect of jevery discharge is to record a signal , the exceptions being very few .
The method adopted to observe this was to fit an electrical bell , worked by the receiving instruments , close to the observer , and at night observe the flashes and note if the bell rang .
For detailed observations , it was found more convenient to record the effects on the tape , and this was the method subsequently adopted .
On the approach of the area of disturbance towards the ship , the first visible indication generally is\#151 ; the recording of dots at intervals varying from a few minutes to a few seconds ; secondly , the recording of three dots with a space between the first two , thus : ( - \#151 ; ) or i , in the Morse Code , and this is the sign most frequently recorded by distant lightning ; thirdly , the recording of dashes ; the intervals between these then gradually decrease and merge into irregular signs , which have sometimes spelt words in the Morse Code ; the effects generally die out more suddenly than they appear .
They are much more frequent in summer and autumn than in winter and spring\#151 ; in the neighbourhood of high mountains than in the open sea\#151 ; in southerly than in northerly winds ( in the Mediterranean Sea)\#151 ; in the front of a cyclonic disturbance of the atmosphere than in the rear , and with a falling barometer than with a rising one .
In settled fine weather , if present , they reach their maxima between 8 and 10 P.M. , and frequently last during the whole night , with a minimum of disturbance between 9 A.M. and 1 P.M. The next cause which is intimately connected with the above , is the shorter distance at which signals can usually be received , when any electrical disturbances are present in the atmosphere , compared to the distance at which they can be received when none are present .
The distance varies from about 30 to 80 per cent , compared with that obtained in fine clear weather .
It does not in any way decrease with the increase of the number of lightning discharges which register their effect on the instruments , at any given time , but rather the reverse , the loss in distance generally preceding the first indications , on the instruments , of the approaching electrical disturbance .
A very marked case is given as an example : Two ships whose instruments were in perfect order , and whose sea-signalling distance was about 65 miles , opened their distance from each other on a fine , calm , bright day ; when they were 22 miles apart , the signals died away , though there was no intervening land or other apparent cause for this , but it was noticed that the barometer was falling ; the ships closed* and got into communication again .
Atmospheric disturbances were then registered on both sets of instruments , and on the ships opening out again , no signals were obtained over 20 miles .
The trials were 268 Oapt .
H. B. Jackson , On Phenomena [ May 1 .concluded shortly after , owing to intervening land .
A few hours later a , heavy winter gale came on , and its approach had evidently been fore- 5 told by the falling barometer , the loss of distance in signalling , and the electrical disturbances in the atmosphere , as shown by the signals received on the instruments .
No lightning flashes were observed .
On another occasion , during a period of strong but intermittent atmospheric effects , no signals were obtainable between two ships up to the usual maximum signal distance .
When separated 50 per cent , beyond this distance , and immediately after a particularly strong and persistent series of electrical discharges , the latter half of a signal which was being transmitted very slowly , was correctly deciphered at a -distance then considered phenomenal , with the instruments employed \amp ; t the time .
A few minutes later , the atmospheric effects vanished , and with them all signs of further signals , till the ships had closed to their usual signalling distance .
This demonstrates that the actual electrical discharges do not of themselves reduce the signalling distance or transmission of the waves at all times , but that they may , under some circumstances , assist that transmission , possibly by a cumulative effect of the waves emitted by the discharges on the waves emitted by the transmitter , these combining and increasing the -effect in the receiver .
I have recorded several similar results , which I cannot attribute to any other cause .
Another effect which reduces the usual signalling distance , is one that I attribute to the presence of material particles held in suspension by the water spherules in a moist atmosphere .
The Mediterranean Sea is , for days together , frequently exposed to the force of the scirocco wind ; this south-easterly wind is laden with damp , and often charged with salt from spray , and dust particles from the African coast .
During the continuance of these winds , the maximum signal distance is generally less than in winds ( wet or dry ) from any other quarter , the proportional distance being from about \lt ; 60 to 80 per cent. The effect of a scirocco wind can be and is allowed for in practical wireless telegraphy .
The causes that I have considered above , and which all tend to lessen the maximum signalling distance that would obtain under more favourable circumstances , may all be attributed to influences which are beyond the control of the designers or operators of the instruments used in wireless telegraphy . .
: I have now , however , to consider a phenomenon which I can only assign to the apparatus in which the waves of electrical induction are generated .
This phenomenon manifests itself by the gradual weakening and occasionally by the total cessation of signals , as the distance between the two ships increases , up to a certain point , and their reappearance as the distance is still further increased ; in the majority of cases , the weakening of signals occurs at , or about , half the signalling 1.902 ] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
260 distance in the open sea , under the same circumstances , which circum-rUances include the direct connection of the aerial wire to one ball of ^The^ttoree1following exampST^eTypioal eases .
Units of distance ^Tship^steTmrf^y'fro " a station , B , to ascertain the oaximum distance at which she could receive signals in the open sea .
1 At 48 units of distance , the signals weakened , at 5T they ceased , at 65 they appeared again , and were kept up to 100 units of distance f ( 6 ) Four ships , C , D , E , F , steered as shown m the ; diagram , the .
he considered .
) In position ( 1 ) D 's signals were \#187 ; \#187 ; ( 2 ) \gt ; j \#187 ; " , , , , ( 3 ) , , \#187 ; \gt ; \#187 ; received by E F , not by C. " " F , " EC : , * bCF , " E. C did not commence signalling before reaching ( 2 ) and her signals , were received by D and E , and maintained by them to position ( 3 ) when the trial was finished* \#166 ; , .
E 's signals , which were few in number , were ; received by O ana V m ( 3 ) , but not by D in ( 2 ) .
r . .
( c. ) In the third example , ships D and F carried out a similar trial independently .
Between 45 and 55 similar units of distance no signals could be exchanged either way , though at 60 units and above* and below 40 , the signalling was perfect .
270 Capt. H. B. Jackson .
On Phenomena [ May j ] To farther verify that it was the system of transmission that wag the cause of this cessation of signals , a syntonic method , of the same approximate frequency of transmission , though of rather less power was used alternately with the other system .
Signals were exchanged perfectly with the syntonic method , but on reverting to the other method , the signals again ceased .
This was tried repeatedly with identical results .
Many other similar .oases have been recorded , but the effects are not always so equally well marked , even under identical circumstances .
I consider this effect is due to want of synchronism in the oscillatory -discharge between the spark balls of the transmitter .
This want of synchronism has also been observed by others in the photographs of oscillatory spark discharges .
C. Tissot* especially remarks that , in his apparatus ( presumably used for a wireless telegraph transmitter ) , the images of the successive sparks are not equidistant , and that the first interval is always greater than the other intervals , which also decrease very slightly .
This implies that the first wave emitted is longer than the second , and so on .
Owing to the rapid damping of our form of transmitter , probably only the first two or three waves emitted are of any practical value in exciting the coherer in wireless telegraphy at a distance of 30 miles ; and to excite it at such distances with the power used in these transmitters , it is probably essential that the effects of the successive waves should be cumulative in their action , and for them to be so they must syntonise with the natural period of oscillation of the receiving circuit , which period , in the cases under notice , was the mean frequency of the waves emitted by the transmitter as nearly as this could be practically adjusted .
Consider the first two waves emitted , or the interval between the ; first and fifth sparks of the oscillatory discharge , when the third one is not spaced midway between them ; the resulting waves , differing but .little in length , and moving with equal velocities and in the same direction , leave a point " O " ( the spark gap ) , the second starting a mean wave-length behind the first one , and in the same phase ; at some fixed point , " P , " in their path , owing to the difference in their length , the two waves will pass that point in the opposite phase , and at a point , " Q , " approximately double the distance from " O " that " P " is from " O , " they will pass " Q , " again in the same phase , and so on , as at all points the second wave is a mean wave-length behind the first one .
To excite the coherer , under the conditions presumed to be necessary for long distances , the impulses due to these waves must syntonise with the natural period of oscillation of the receiving circuit , and therefore these successive waves must pass by that circuit ( wherever it may be ) , with the second following in the same phase as the first , or nearly so , * * Comptes Rendus , ' xol .
132 , p. 763 ( 25/ 3/ 01 ) j and vol. 133 , p. 929 ( 2/ 12/ 01 ) .
\gt ; 1902 .
] affecting the Transmission of Electric Waves .
otherwise the tendency of the second one will be to weaken or annul he effect of the first one . . . .
, At the point " P , " therefore , when the waves are in opposite phase , t may be expected that signals will be weak , and at " Q , " when they 4 in phase , they rmy he strong , but , owing to " Qs distance from Eo \#187 ; being double that of " P , " the effect of each individual impulse L " 0 " is only half its effect at " P , " and " Q " rmy he the maximum ( distance from " 0/ ' at which the cumulative effect of the successive nvaves will excite the coherer , even when they are in phase and in perfect syntony with the receiver circuit .
I have not yet been able to investigate the exact cause of the non-5synchronous emission of the waves , but X attribute these " zones of weak signals " ( as I term them ) to this non-synchronous emission of the waves , and to the rapid damping of this form of transmitter , and would observe that when using my syntonic transmitter , in which the damping is less rapid , I have never noticed these effects .
A point of interest , which has also great effect on the signalling distance , is the efficiency of the earth connection of both the trans-mitting and receiving instruments .
Fortunately for the system , on board a modern ship there is no difficulty in obtaining an almost perfect earth connection when the ship is at sea .
In dry dock , how ever , there is , in fine weather , a great difficulty in doing so , and the effects of the bad earth with the ship in dock , on the signals , are extremely marked , both for transmitting and receiving , reducing the distance as low as to 25 per cent , of the distance with the ship afloat .
A similar effect due to drought has been observed with some shore stations , where , according to my experiences , the maximum signalling distances have always been obtained during wet seasons of the year .
A typical example is given *.\#151 ; On one particular occasion , towards the end of a very dry summer ( last year ) , the maximum signal distance between a certain ship and station , 500 feet above the sea , was 38 miles , the usual distance having previously , been 68 miles .
Two days later , during which time no alterations whatever had been made to the adjustments of the instruments , but which included 24 hours of heavy rain , the maximum distance obtained was 70 miles , which has since been maintained .
Repeated experiments with and without earths on the transmitter and receiver have shown me that , in the open sea , signals may be obtained up to 50 or 60 per cent , of the full distance , without earths on the receiver , though such a large proportion is unusual , the average being 30 per cent. A condenser of suitable capacity acts nearly as well as a good earth ; without an earth on the transmitter , the percentage of distances has never exceeded 15 per cent. Using good earths , but no aerial wire whatever on the receiver , or near it , signals have never been obtained over 3 miles .
With no aerial wire On the Transmission of Electric Waves .
[ May f. j on the transmitter I have never known a signal to be received on board another ship over 2 miles distant .
My experience demonstrates most clearly , and with no marked exception , that , for signalling any distance beyond a few miles , the combination of aerial wires and good earths is essential , for both transmitting and receiving instruments .
Summary .
The results of my observations ' may be briefly summed up as follows:\#151 ; # ( !
) That intervening land of any kind reduces the practical signalling distance between two ships or stations , compared with the distance obtainable in the open sea , and that this loss in distance varies with the height , thickness , contour , and nature of the land ; and that , based on the results of these observations , it may be concluded that some of the waves of electric induction , transmitted by wireless telegraphy , may pass through , over , and possibly round the land , and are comparable to the passage of ocean waves through or over a reef , or round high land , which waves proceed along their course with diminished energy , after passing such obstructions .
( 2 ) That material particles , such as dust and salt held in suspension in a moist atmosphere , also reduce the signalling distance , probably dissipating and absorbing the waves .
( 3 ) That electrical disturbance in the atmosphere also acts most adversely to the regular transmission of these waves , in addition to affecting the receiving instruments by lightning discharges .
( 4 ) That a system of transmission in which the oscillations are rapidly damped is irregular in its action on distant receivers , owing to the irregularity of the train of waves giving rise to different types* of disturbance at different parts of their path , which may not have at certain points the necessary cumulative effect on the receiving circuit .
( 5 ) That the earth 's function in the transmission of waves is most important ; but that its importance is secondary to that of the aerial wire , or capacity insulated in the air above the surface of the surrounding sea or earth .
I have to thank many of my brother officers and men in H.M.'s* Navy for the valuable assistance they have ungrudgingly given me in carrying out my experiments .

