Xi .
" Description of a Pendului -Electrograph niow in use at the Melbourne Observatory .
" By R. L. J. ELLERY , Government Astronoiner to the Colony of Victoria .
Communicated by BALFOUIt STEWART , Esq. , F.R.S. Received May 23 , 1868 .
( Plate II .
) About eig-hteen months since , being desirous of making some improvements in our mode of observing atmospheric electricity , I tried a series of experiments with Sir William Thomson 's various methods of obtaining observations and measures of the electric state of the atmosphere ; the results of these were so very satisfactory that I had a divided-ring reflecting electrometer made , as nearly similar as possible , judging from the descriptionis available , to those used by himself .
This was attached to a waterdropping collector , and I obtained the deflections of the needle measured by meanis of a telescope and reflected scale .
Prior to this , all observations of atmospheric electricity were made with Quetelet 's modification of the Pel .
tier electrolmeter , where the needle and its little directing magnet are suspenided by a cocoon fibre instead of on a point .
The use of this , however , was very troublesome , involving its being carried to the highest part of the building at every observation , brought down , and placed on its stand within doors , the needle brouight to rest by a mag , net , and , after reading off the force of repulsion , the ascertaining of the character of the electricity by a separate operation .
After using the divided-ring electrometer for a few weeks , it became apparent that no method of observing atmospheric electricity that was not continuous could possibly afford results that would embrace the numerous and rapid changes which take place .
I found also in observing with the divided-ring electrometer that the torsion of the platinum wire was uncertain , requiring very frequent alteration of the zeropoint , especially after great disturbances .
I therefore elndeavoured to devise an electrograph that should act by gravity instead of torsion ; and for this puirpose the electrometers of Sir W. Thomson and the photographic registration method adopted in the Kew magnetographs afforded me a sufficient groundwork .
In August last I so far succeeded as to obtaini regular photographic cuirves of the electric condition of the air about 18 feet from the earth 's surface ; experielnce of the first temporarv apparatus suggested modifications ; and in November an improved instrunment was erected , of which a brief description was read before the Royal Society of Victoria in December .
Some defects in the performance of this , however , led to even a further modification ; and since December last the improved electrograph has performed most satisfactorily .
Plate II .
will explain its construLction .
It may be generally described as consisting of1 .
Reservoir of electricity .
2 .
The pendululm .
3 .
Electrodes .
p w ap 0 PLAN OF CRADLE .
ai t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 x ccf : L~~~~~~~~~~~Rq/ ~~~~~~~~~~~ )~ WJ MIk ~~~~~~~ii~k -k p Iv~~~~~~rV ILIWII il II11,111 cv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L N ~~~~~~~~~~PLAN AND ELEVATION OF PENDULUM .
SECTIONAL FRONT ELEVATION .
SECTIONAL SID Pro .
joy .Soc .
VOUZI V.atlJJ .
PLAN OF CRADLE .
)4 1p PLAN AND ELEVATION IV0 FS ll\\R\\eR\\'\'\ tPENDU LU M. J SaECTINALIDE SECTIONAL SIDE ELEVATI ON .
4 .
Charge-measurer apparatus .
5 .
Lifting-cradle .
6 .
Outer metallic cover .
7 .
Charging-apparatus .
1 .
Reservoir of Eleetricity.-On an octagonal slab of slate 1 inch thick and 15 inches from side to side , is fixed an ordinary Leydeln jar , A ; to the inside bottom of this jar , and in connexion with its inside coating , is fixed a pillar of brass tube reaching to about the level of the mouth of the jar ; to the top of this is fixed the support ( b ) for the moveable part with its mirror .
Connected with the pillar , and projecting upwards and outwards beyond the top of the jar , is a branch of metal terminating in a rino ( d ) , to facilitate charging the Leyden jar .
The support of the moveable part will be best understood by reference to the Plate , where it is marked d ; it consists of a Z-shaped piece of brass attached to the top of the pillar with a central screw and three vet serews , by means of which the surface ( e ) upon which the moveable part rests may be set quite level .
The surface ( e ) is of polished hardened steel about 1 irnch long and 4 inch broad , dovetailed into the brass Z-piece .
2 .
The Pendulum.-The moveable or sensitive part ( P ) , which may be called the pendulum , has its centre of gravity and point of suspension nearly coincident .
It conisists , first , of a mirror-frame ( f ) and kniife-edge ( g ) with counterpoise ( h ) , needle ( i ) with its counterpoise ( j ) and balance-screw ( k ) .
The mirror , a piece of silvered parallel glass about 1 inch square , is clamped on to its frame by two little clips ; the knife-edge ( g ) is of hardened steel , and is fixed as nearly as possible in a plane with the silvered , surface of the mirror ; the counterpoise brings the centre of gravity of the whole niearly to the centre of the knife-edge .
The needle is a piece of No. 16 aluminium wire fixed to the back of the mirror-frame , projecting vertically upwards for about 4 inches from the level of the knife-edge , and terminating in a piece of thin sheet aluminium ( a ) about 1-4 inch long and 4 inch wide , bent to a curve of 4 inches radius and fixed to the wire at right angles to the plalne of the mirror , and with the chord of its curvature at right angles to the wire itself .
The counterpoise to this is found atj ; a small brass wire , screwed , projects downwards from the frame and carries a small weight , which can be adjusted by screwing up and down the wire so as to obtain the required sensitiveness of the pendulum .
The balance-screw ( k ) is a piece of small brass wire screwed its whole length , terminating at each end in a little capstan head .
It is attached at right angles to the frame and perpendicular to the plane of the mirror by meanis of a small stud ( 1 ) , through which it can be screwed in order to adjust the whole penidulunm to the required verticality .
3 .
Electrodes.-Firmly fixed to the slate base are two stout pillars of brass ( m , m ) , 3-inch diameter and 20 inches high ; these are connected at the top by a bridge of stout brass ( n ) , to the centre of which a block of ebonite carrying the electrodes ( o , o ' ) is firmly screwed .
These consist of two seg .
ments of a ring of brass of 48inside and about 4-7 outside radius , and 3 of an irnch wide ; they are firmly screwed to the ebonite so as to form together a true arch , but with the end at the vertex separated by about --1of an inch , care being taken that they are perfectly insulated from one another and from all other parts .
Attached to each electrode is a stout brass wire ( p_p ' ) projecting upwards and ending in a ring* .
4 .
Charge-measurer.-On the aluminium stem of the pendulum , and about two-thirds of the distance between the centre of the mirror and the curved piece of aluminium from the former , is a disk of gilded mica ( q ) , 2 ai inch in diameter with its plane parallel to that of the mirror ; fixed to the outer metal case ( to be described ) is a sliding-tube and screw ( r- ) , through which passes a steel wire ( s ) terminating inside the case with a disk of sheet brass 1 inch diameter .
This is so arranged that the wire disk can be pushed free through the sliding-tube and fixed with the disk at any definite distance from the mica disk ; while a further and gradual approach is made with the sliding-tube and screw , both of which are divided ; the wire is graduated to inches , the tube and screw together measuring to -Iof an inch .
The large disk , when withdrawn , rests against the side of the covering case 6 inches from the needle .
The screw is a four-threaded one with six turns to the inch , and is sufficieintly lonig to allow of 2 inches ' motion of the sliding-tube .
5 .
Lifting-Cradle.-This consists of a cradle analogous to the lifting apparatus of a good chemical balance .
It lifts the pendulum at three points ; one is a V , a prolongation of the kniife-edge , the other two are formed by the arms of the balance-wire ; the cradle ( M ) is fixed to a piece of ebonite ( t ) projecting from a tube ( u ) which slides on one of the pillars , which can be moved up and down to the required extent by a screw ( v v ) passing upwards through the bridge .
This screw is worked by a key ( w ) through the top of the outer case .
The cradle is set upon the ebonite with adjusting screws , so that it can be made to lift the pendulum quite symmetrically , and lower it without setting it vibrating .
6 .
The outer metallic cover.-ar xx is a cylinder of copper 22 inches high and 12 inches diameter , covered at the top .
It has a flange ( N ) of brass at the bottom which is ground flat and fits almost air-tight oln the slate slab ; three studs find their places in three holes in the slab and keep it in position .
In front of the mirror is the window ( W ) of the cylinder , which is closed by a piece of parallel plate-glass , and covered outside by a metal plate having two tubular openings , to which are fitted the telescope and dark channel for leading the slit of light to the mirror and thence to the cylinder , as in the case of the lieu magnetographs .
At the back and opposite the window is the charging-hole ( y ) ; this is an opening lined with ebonite and having a cap to screw on outside .
Above the window , the sliding-tube and screw of the charge-measurer ( ?
S ) is fixed .
On the top of the cylinder are two tubular apertures lined with plugs of ebonite , through which the external parts of the electrodes pass .
The key for lifting the pendulum is also fitted on the top of the case .
7 .
The charging-alpparatus.-This consists of an ordinary electrophorus , and of a rod of wire covered with gutta percha or ebonite , terminating at one end in a brass knob , at the other in a projection of uncovered metal for placing in contact with the ring which projects from the Leyden jar pillar .
The air inside the cylinder is kept perfectly dry by two leaden trays , conitaining lumps of pumice-stone saturated with sulphuric acid* .
The arrangement of light , cylinder for photograph-paper and clockwork , as also of the reading-telescope and scale , are in all respects similar to those adopted for the vertical-force magnetograph of Kew , and described in the Report of the British Association for 1859 .
The water-dropping apparatus is of the same kind as described by Sir W. Thomson in Nichol 's Cyclopaedia ( 1860 , art .
" Atmospheric Electricity " ) .
The cistern contains about twenty-eight gallons , which is fotund to give the requisite stream for about thirty hours .
It is a copper vessel , 2 feet square and 1 foot high .
Keeping it shallow avoids much alteration of head of water , and consequently secures a more regular 5tream : this tank rests upon four ebonite insulators indoors .
A copper pipe ending in a fine nlozzle passes through a hole in the glass of the window , and projects to about four feet beyond the wall of the building ; the tank is connected with the electrometer in another chamber by means of a copper wire very thickly covered with gutta percha .
The mode of using the whole apparatus may be thus describod .
The Leyden jar or reservoir is first charged by a few good sparks from the electrophorus ; to do this the cover of the opening ( y ) is removed and the charging-rod inserted so that the bare end rests on the ring ( c ) .
The sparks from the electrophorus are then passed to the brass knob , which projects a few inches ouitside the case .
The rod is them withdrawn and the opening closed .
The act of charging generally sets the pendulum oscillating ; it soon comes to rest , however .
An hour after charging I have gernerally found the charge sufficiently permanent for commencing registrationl .
The two electrodes are then coniiected with the earth ; in a minute the reading of the reflected scale will give what may be styled charge-zero , which is always different from the zero-reading before charging the jar , the latter being the reading of the position of rest of the pendulum ( which , by the bye , I make so sensitive as to vibrate abouit once a second ) .
The charge has now to be measured in terms of the slide and screw .
To do this , the wire is first pushed in till the disk is at some definite distance from the pendulum-disk ; to admit of this being done precisely and quickly , a small stop ( z ) is fixed on the rim , and when the stop is homne and the screw and slide reading two inches , the disks will be exactly two inches apart .
The 'disk is then gradually approached by means of the screw until , by the attraction exerted upon the pendulum and conisequent movement of the mirror , the reading of the scale has altered any definite but small amount ( say , =10 ' ) ; the indices of the slide and screw are then noted and entered as the charge-reading .
The photographic cylinder is now adjusted to its place , and the dot of light falling on it ascertained to be of its proper brightness ; for after charging and after great atmospheric disturbances the pendulum will be found to have shifted , slightly displacing the dot laterally , and rendering it weak and undefined ; a gentle lifting and lowering of the pendulum , however , by means of the lifting-apparatu8 and screw sets this right immediately .
The air-electrode ( p ) is now disconnected from the earth , but p ' is left connected ; the needle then assumes a slightly different position , which after five minutes is read off by the telescope and entered as the earth-reading .
This position becomes also photographed , and will appear as a short but undisturbed line on the sheet .
At the end of the five minutes the wire leading to the water-dropper is attached and the whole left for twenty-four hours ; at the expiration of this period the tank is detached , and five minutes after the earth-reading taken and entered as before .
The two electrodes are then connected and the charge measured , the lig , ht and barrel readjusted for the second dav 's curve , scale-reading observed and entered again , and so on for the next twenty-four hours .
The curves show at the commencement and enid of each day a short straight line already referred to , and corresponding to the mirror 's position for the earth-reading ; a line drawn from one to the other of these gives the zero or base-line for the day ; any loss in the charge of the jar , which is assumed to be proportional to the time , is thus accounted for ; for the line will be inclined to the edge of the sheet in proportion to the loss in the twenity-four hours .
In the case of this electrometer , the charge of the jar being positive , and the fronit electrocde being the one connected with the air , a positive charge will raise the reflected beam of light , and a niegative one lower it ; so that the curve above this zero-linie indicates positive , and below it negative electricity .
It now remains to show how the indications of the apparatuis are reduced .
The standard I have adopted is one cell of Daniell 's battery .
The deflections of the penrdulum will be very nearly a joint measure of the charge of the jar and of the electric potential of the air where the water breaks into drops ; the charge of the jar , as I have shownl , is -arbitrarily measured in terms of the screw every day ; and the value of these measures , in terms of Daniell 's cells , is obtainied as follows:-A 12-cell Daniell 's battery is placed at hand : the reservoir is first charged pretty highly and left for an hour ; the electrodes are then both connected with the earth , and the reading of the reflected scale obtained as a zero .
The charge-measuring disk is now approached to the pendulum-disk ulntil a sufficient deflection is caused to alter the scale-reading ( say , 10 ' ) from the zero , and the indication of the slide-tube and screw noted as charye-readinzg .
The electrodes are now disconnected from the earth and connected with the 12-cell battery , one with one pole and one with the other , and the deflection then read off ; the poles are then reversed and a second reading obtainied .
The charge-reading is now obtained again , as well as the zero-reading .
The following actual observations will further elucidate this : Scale-reading .
Screw-reading .
Zero ... . .
96-5 Charge ... . .
940 Battery P ... ... 1016 Battery N. .
90 4 Charge ... ... ... 940 Zero.96'2 The reading for battery in first positions differs from zero by +51 divisions , and in the second by -5'8 divisions .
A deflection of 5'45 divisions is therefore equal to twelve Daniell 's cells when the charge-reading is 940 .
The charge is now reduced and the same process is gone through .
This is repeated for eight or ten degrees of charge ; and by this means we obtain a set of readings of the amount of deflection caused by a 12-cell battery for various states of the charge , as well as arbitrary measures of the charge by the screwand slide-tube .
One set of observations gave the following results : When the reading of the Twelve cells Daniell'g charge-measurer ( with the battery causes a deflecdisks ner enough to protion of pendulum of duce a deflection of 10 ' ) is 1 00. .
006 scale-divisions .
2-00. .
076 3'00 ... ... ... .,. .
1'39 4100. .
190 5'00..235 6 00..280 7'00 ... ... ... ... ... ... 3-32 8'00 ... ... ... ... ... ... 3 96 9 00.4'80 10'00. .
5'89 11 00 ... ... 730 12'00. .
909 The distances between the disks when the charge-measurer reads 1'00 and 12'00 were 1F16 inch and 3 inches respectively .
From this a Table is computed , in which the value of the scale-reading and of the ordinates to the curves in terms of the Daniell 's cells is shown for every value of the charge of the reservoir .
This apparatus has scarcely been in use for a sufficiently extended period to allow of any reliable deductions being made as to the existence of laws in the variations of the force of atmospheric electricity ; or of any relations that may exist between this and other lmeteorological phenomena .
Some facts , however , can be already gathered from the curves obtained .
These are , first , the periods of maxima and minima , which are most distinctly shown .
The former occurs at from 6h 30n to 8h 30 ' A.M. , the latter at from i P.M. to 3 P.M. A second maximum at from 9 to 10 P.M. , and a second minimumn at from midnight to 2 A.M. are also indicated .
The greatest disturbances take place during our northerly winds , especially in dry hot weather , when a very great negative tension often occturs , so strong as to be beyond the measuring-power of the instrument , in which case sparks may be generally obtained from the air-electrode .
The usual turning of the wind from N. to S.W. is always acconmpanied for a short period by an almost equally high positive tension , but during strong and hot northerly winds the high negative tension lasts as long as the wind blows strong and dry .

