]\gt ; [ 229 ] IV .
On Curvat , ur and Orthogonal Surfaces .
A. CAYLEY , .D .
, F.R.S. , Sadlerian Professor of Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received December 27 , 1872 , \mdash ; Read February 13 , 1873 .
THE principal object of the present Memoir is the establishment of the partial differential equation of the third order satisfied by the parameter of a family of surfaces belonging to a triple orthogonal system .
It was first remarked by BOUQUET that a given family of surfaces does not in general belong to an orthogonal system , but that ( in order to its doing so ) a condition must be satisfied ; it was afterwards shown by SERRET that the condition is that the parameter , considered as a function of the coordinates , must satisfy a partial differential equation of the third order : this equation was not obtained by him or the other French geometers engaged on the subject , although methods of obtaining it , essentially equivalent but differing in form , were given by DARBOUX and LEVT ; the last-named writer even found a particular form of the equation , viz. what the general equation becomes on writing therein ( X , the first derived functions , or quantities proportional to the cosine-inclinations of the normal ) .
LEVY'S method , I obtained the general equation , and communicated it to the French Academy .
My result was , however , of a very complicated form , owing , as I afterwards discovered , to its being encumbered with the extraneous factor ; I succeeded , by some difficult reductions , in getting rid of this factor , and so obtaining the equation in the given in the present memoir , viz. : but the method was an inconvenient one , and I was led to reconsider the question .
The present investigation , although the analytical transformations are very long , is in theory extremely simple : I consider a given surface , and at each point thereof take along the normal an infinitesimal length ( not a constant , but an arbitrary function of the coordinates ) , the extremities of these distances ming a new surface , say the vicinal surface ; and the points on the same normal being considered as points , say this is the conormal correspondence of vicinal surfaces .
In 0l.del that the two surfaces may belong to an orthogonal system , it is necessary and sufficient that at each point of the given surface the principal tangents ( tangents to the curves of curvature ) shall correspond to the principal tangents at the corresponding point of the vicinal surface ; and the condition for this is that 9 shall satisfy a partial differential equation of the second order , 230 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CUBVATIjRE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
where the coefficients depend on the first and second differential coefficients of , if is the equation of the given surface .
Now , considering the given surface as belonging to a family , or writing its equation in the form ( the last a functional symbol ) , the condition in order that the vicinal surface shall belong to this family , or say that it shall coincide with the surface , is , where , if are the first differential coefficients of , that is , of the parameter considered as a function of the coordinates ; we have thus the equation viz. the coefficients being functions of the first and second differential coefficients of and being a function of the first differential coefficients of , this is in fact a relation involving the first , second , and third differential coefficients of , or it is the partial differential equation to be satisfied by the parameter considered as a function of the coordinates .
After all reductions , this equation assumes the form previously mentioned .
On the Curvature of Surfaces .
ticle h to 21 .
1 .
Curvature is a metrical theory having reference to the circle at infinity ; each point in space may be regarded as the vertex of a cone passing ough this circle , say the circular cone ; a line and plane through the vertex are at right angles to each other when they are polar line and polar plane in regard to the cone ; and so two lines or two planes are at right angles when they are harmonics in regard to the cone , that is , when each line lies in the polar plane , or each plane passes through the polar line of the other .
Aplane through the vertex meets the cone in two lines , which are the " " circular lines\ldquo ; in the plane and through the point ; a line through the vertex has through it two tangent planes , which might be called the ' circular planes\ldquo ; of the point and through the line ; but the term is hardly required .
Lines in the plane and through the point , at right angles to each other , are also harmonics ( polar hnes ) in regard to the two circular lines .
2 .
Consider now a surface , and any point thercof ; we have at this point a tangent plane and a nolmal .
The tangent plane meets the surface in a curve having at the point a node , and the tangents to the two branches of the curve .
of course lines in the tangent plane ) are the " " chief tangents\ldquo ; of the surface at the point .
3 .
The chief tangents are the intersections of the tangent plane by a quadric cone , which may be called the chief cone ; but it is important to observe that this cone is not endent of the particular form under which the equation of the surface is presented .
To explain this , suppose that the.rational equation of the surface is ; taking as current coordinates measured from the point as origin , the of the chief cone is , where denote the coordinates of the point .
But it is in the sequei necessary to present the equation of the surface in a different manner ; say PBDFESSOR CAlLEY ON cvRvAuURB AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
231 have an equation between the cordinates and a parameter being therefore in general an irrational function of / ?
, ) , which , when .
, reduces itself to we have then as the equatioh of the surface ; and .
the corresponding equation of the chiefcone is ; this is not the same as the cone although of course it intersects the tangent plane in the same two lines , viz. the chief lines ; and so in general there is a distinct chief cone corresponding to each form of the uation of the surface .
But adopting a definite form of equation , we have a definite chief cone intersecting the plane in the chief tangents .
4 .
Observe that the equations , although each relating to one and the same surface , serve to represent this surface , and that in different ways , as belonging to a family of surfaces , viz. one of these is the family const .
, and the other the family const .
In order to represent a given surface as belonging to a certain family , we need the irrational form of equation ; thus denoting the irrational function of determined by the equation , we have as the equation of the ellipsoid , considered as belonging to a family of confocal quadrics .
5 .
Although at first sight presenting some difficulty , it is convenient to use the same letter to denote the parameter considered as a function of the coordinates , and the special value of the parameter ; thus in general the equation of a surface may be written ( in which form the first may be regarded as a functional symbol ) , or simply , viz. the first here denotes the given function of , and the second the particular value of the parameter .
6 .
By what precedes we have through the point and in the tangent plane two circular lines , the ntersections of the tangent plane by the circular cone having the point for its vertex .
We have also through the point and in the tangent plane two other lines , termed the principal tangents , viz. the definition of these is that they are the double ( or sibiconjugate ) lines of the invoIution formed by the circular lines and the chief tangents , or , what is the same thing , they are the bisectors ( and as such at right to each other ) of the angles formed by the chief tangents .
7 .
The principal tangents may also be considered as the intersections of the tangent plane by a quadric cone , called the principal cone ; this being a cone constructed by means of the circular cone and the chief cone , and thus depending on the particular chief cone , that is , on the form of the equation of the surface .
The definition is that the principal cone is the locus of a line ( ough the point ) , such that the line itself , the perpendicular ( or harmonic in regard to the circular cone ) of the polar plane of the line in regard to the chief cone , and the normal of the surface are in plano .
8 .
Analytically , taking , as before , for the coordinates of the point , and as current coordinates measured from the point as , then the equation of th circular cone is ; and taking for the equation of the PROFIICSSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND ORTIfOGONAL 8UBFACES .
plape , and for that of the chief cone , then , if the line be : : , we have for the equation of the polar plane , and thence for those of the perpendicular , or harmonic in regard to the circular cone ; also for the normal ; whence , if the three lines are in plano , we have X , , as equation of the principal cone .
This is in the sequel written , for shortness , as X , 9 .
Consider any point , not in general on the surface , in the neighbourhood of the point on the surface , say ; then the point has in regard to the surface a polar plane , which plane , however , is dependent on the particular form of equation\mdash ; viz. being the coordinates of , and the same function of these that is of , then the form of the equation of the surface the polar plane ; and we may through draw hereto a perpendicular ( or harmonic in regard to the circular cone ) , say this is the normal line of .
Then for points in the neighbourhood of , when these are such that their normal lines meet the normal at , the locus of ; is the before-mentioned principal cone .
The analytical investigation presents no difficulty .
10 .
Taking on the surface , the normal line of becomes the normal at a consecutive point of the surface ( being now a line independent of the particular form of equation ) , and this normal meets the normal at ; that is , we have the principal cone meeting the tangent plane in two lines , the principal tangents , such that at a consecutive point on either of these the normal meets the normal at ; viz. we have the principal tangents as the tangents of the two culves of curvature though the point P. The plane through the normal and a principal tangent is termed a principal plane ; we have thus at the point of the sulface two principal planes , forming with the tangent plane an orthogonal triad of planes .
11 .
I oceed to further develop the theory , commencing with the following lemma:\mdash ; Lemma .
Given the line , and conic PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATIJRE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
233 then , to determine the coordinates , of the points of intersection of the line and conic , we have , or , what is the same thing , we have as the equation , in line coordinates , of the two points of intersection .
The proof is obvious .
12 .
Making the equations refer to a plane and a cone , and writing throughout as current point coordinates , the theorem Given the plane , and cone ; then , to determine the lines of intersection of the plane and cone , we have as the equation of the pair of planes at light angles to the two lines respectively .
13 .
Denoting the coefficients by , ( b ) , \amp ; c. , that is , writing the values of these are We have the following identities:\mdash ; , .
, , that is , \amp ; c. , whel e 234 .
PROFESSOB CAYLEY CURVATURE RTIIOGONAL Writing also and ; also , then -XoXYY\mdash ; ZZ , 14 .
I give also the lemma:\mdash ; Lemma .
The condition in order that the plane may meet the cones in two pairs of hnes harmonically related to each other , is ( BC ' . .
, . .
Writing here that , \amp ; c. , the condition may be written ( A ) or say ; and we may , it is clear , interchange the accented and unaccented letters respectively .
15 .
I take for the equation of a surface , X , for the first derived functions of for the second derived functions .
The equation of the tangent plane at the point , taking as current coordinates measured from this point , is ; the equation of the chief cone in regard to this form of the equation of the surface is and the equaticu of the circular cone is , or , what is the same thing , a quadric conc , such that it meets the tangent plane in the sibiconjugate lines of the involution formed by the intersections of the plane by the chief cone and the circular cone respectively ; that is , in a pair of lines harmonically related to the intersections with the chief cone , and also to the intersections with the circular cone ; the conditions are and viz. if only these two conditions are satisfied the cone will intersect the tangent plane in the two principal tangents .
16 .
The principal cone , writing , for shortness , was before taken to be the cone X , Representing this equation by the expressions of the oefficients are These values give ; whence also as is , in fact , at once obvious from the determinallt-form ; and also 17 .
Writing , for shortness , , we A ; 236 PROFESSOK CAYLEY ON CURVATURE ORTHOGONAL SlIBFACES .
whence 18 .
By what precedes , we have for the equation of the two principal planes , where the coefficients ( A ) , ( B ) , \amp ; c. are functions of , \amp ; c. and of , as mentioned above .
These coefficients satisfy of course the several relations similar to those satisfied by , ( b ) , \amp ; c. , and other relations dependent on the expressions of , \amp ; c. in terms of , \amp ; c. and X , , Z. 19 .
Proceeding to consider the coefficients ( A ) , ( B ) , \amp ; c. , we have then that is Observing the relation , the equations analogous to , are , \amp ; c. if for a moment we write to denote the functions But , from the above values , , or the equation is that is .
The equation for ( F ) is where is , .
this is We have thus the system of equations oX .
We hence find ( A ) ( H ) ( G ) if , for shortness , PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND ORTHOGONAL RFACES .
237 Forming the sum , the coefficient of is found to be hence the whole is , which is , that is , 21 .
Hence , adding , we find ; viz. in this and the before-mentioned equation we have the a posteriori verification that the cone cuts the tangent plane in the double lines of the involution .
In what precedes I have given only those relations between the several sets of quantities , , ( A ) , \amp ; c. which have been required for establishing the results last obtained ; but thel.e are val.ious other relations required in the sequel , and which will be obtained as they are wanted .
The Conormal Correspondence of Vicinal Surfaces .
Alticle Nos. 22 to 35 .
We consider a surface , and at each point thereof measure along the normal an infinitesimal length , dependent on the position of the point that function .
We have thus a point , the coordinates of which where , ( 3 , are the cosine-inclinations of the nolmal , that is , if the locus of is of course a surface , say the vicinal surface , and we require to find the ection of the normal at , or , what is the same thing , the differential equation of the surface .
1Ve have X ; hence , eliminating , we have between a linear equation , the coefficients of which may be taken to be king these only as far as first power of , we have X ' PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATUBE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
or , what is the same ' with expressions for and proceed to reduce these .
The formula for X ' i$ .
I write , for shortness , , whence agreeing with the former rnificaCions of ; also , and .
It is now easy to form the values of .
these are \mdash ; ; and hence ; and we have ' , with the like values of and .
But we only concel.ned with the ratios X ' : : ; whence , dividing the .
values by the coefficient in , and taking the second terms only to the first order in 9 , we have simply ' , 24 We may investigate the condition in order that the face x may be the face r .
This will be the case of , that is , , or ) .
This value of gives and similarly ; whencc PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CUBVATURE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
which is as it should be , viz. these are what become on therein for the values 25 .
I leturn to the case where ) is arbitrary , and I investigate the values of , . . .
for the point on the vicinal surface ; say these are \amp ; c. , then we have \amp ; c. The relation between the differentials may be written \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; \mdash ; and we thence have \amp ; c. ; hence ; and similally , or , that is 26 .
Completing the reduction , we find ; say these expressions are , \amp ; c. 27 .
Taking for the coordinates , referred to as origin , of a point on the given surface near to , and for the coordinates , referred to as origin , of the corresponding point on the vicinal surface , the relation between and is the same as that between and ; viz. we have ; or , conversely , say ; hence , where second line is But X or second line ) ; and we have thel.efore We require , to the first order in , this is . .
Hcrc second line is : PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CUBVATURE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
but but but but but but X , ' X , X , whence term in is ' ' which might be written X , X , ' but it is perhaps more conyenient to retain the second term in its .
As legards the first line , we have with similar expressions for the other coefficients .
to the .
the first older , we thus obtain 212 PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND OBTHOC } ONAL SITRFACES .
say these are , \amp ; c. , where is a functional symbol ; we thus have which , for shortness , I represent by ; and I to complete the calculation of the coefficients \amp ; c. 30 .
We have coeff. in , that is , where coeff. is .
31 .
And similarly , Sum is , which hence PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND OBTHOGONAL SURFACES .
32 .
We may write in which equations , \amp ; c. are the like functions of , \amp ; c. that , \amp ; c. are of , \amp ; c. ; viz. , \amp ; c. The value of is , which is Hence the valuc of is equal to the last-mentioned expression , cthcr tlxc following which destroy certain of the foregoing ones ; .
we ve 33 .
Similarly , the value of is \mdash ; - - which is Hence is equal to the foregoing expression , together with the following terms:\mdash ; destroy certain of the oing terms ; viz. we thus have .
We thus have PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
245 35 .
It will be recollected that we have ; by what precedes it appears that for the given surface the principal tangents are determined by the equations and that the lines which ( in the tangent plane of the given surface ) correspond to the principal ents of the corresponding point of the vicinal surface detelmined by the equations Condition that the two surfaces belong to an stem .
Article Nos. 36 to 41 .
36 .
The condition in order that the two surfaces may belong to an orthogonal system is that the principal ents shall correspond , or , what is the same , the lines which ( in the tangent plane of the given surface ) correspond to the principal tangents of the vicinal surface must be the principal ents of the given surface .
When this is the case the plane and cone intersect in the principal tangents , and this is therefore the required condition .
The plane meets the cone in the principal tangents , that is in a pair of lines harmonically related to the circular lines and also to the chief ents .
Forming then the coefficients , , , , , from \amp ; c. the same way as ( A ) \amp ; c. are formed from , \amp ; c. , that is , \amp ; c. , the conditions are , or , what is the same The formel of these , as about to be shown , is satisfied identically ; we have creforc the second of them , say as the required condition .
IDCCCLXXIIr .
37 .
We have Forming next the expressions of \amp ; c. , and , for convenience , writing down separately the terms which involve the second coefficients of , we have where stands for , and where the three expressions contain also the following terms respectively:\mdash ; -YZ Multiplying by X , , and adding , the terms which contain the second diffelential coefficients disappear , and we obtain ; so that , attending to the above value of , we have the requii equation 38 .
Proceeding now to form the value of , .
that is , it will be shown that the terms involving the first differential coefficients of vanish of themselves ; as ards those containing the second differential coefficients , forming the auxiliary equations which is .
, 40 .
The reduction depends on the following auxilialy formulae:\mdash ; \ldquo ; \ldquo ; ' where , for shortness , I have written to stand for respectively , and for From these we immediately have , , .
Hence , in the coefficient of , the first line is , and the second line is ; so that the sum , or whole coefficient of , is imilarly , the coefficients of and are each 41 .
We have thus arrived at the equation as the condition to be satisfied by the normal distance 9 in order that the given surface and the vicinal surface may belong to an orthogonal system , viz. this is a partial difierential equation of the second order , its coefficients.being given functions of X , , the first and second differential coefficients of where is the equation of the given surface ) .
The equation , it is clear , may also be wlitten in the two forms and X 41 .
We have thus al.rived at the equation as the condition to be satisfied by the normal distance 9 in order that the given surface and the vicinal surface may belong to an orthogonal system , is a partial difierential equation of the second order , its coefficients.being given functions of X , , the filst and second differential coefficients of where is the equation of the given surface ) .
The equation , it is clear , may also be wlitten in the two forms and X 41 .
We have thus al.rived at the equation as the condition to be satisfied by the normal distance 9 in order that the given surface and the vicinal surface may belong to an orthogonal system , is a partial difierential equation of the second order , its coefficients.being given functions of X , , the filst and second differential coefficients of where is the equation of the given surface ) .
The equation , it is clear , may also be wlitten in the two forms and X 41 .
We have thus al.rived at the equation as the condition to be satisfied by the normal distance 9 in order that the given surface and the vicinal surface may belong to an orthogonal system , is a partial difierential equation of the second order , its coefficients.being given functions of X , , the filst and second differential coefficients of where is the equation of the given surface ) .
The equation , it is clear , may also be wlitten in the two forms and X 41 .
We have thus al.rived at the equation as the condition to be satisfied by the normal distance 9 in order that the given surface and the vicinal surface may belong to an orthogonal system , is a partial difierential equation of the second order , its coefficients.being given functions of X , , the filst and second differential coefficients of where is the equation of the given surface ) .
The equation , it is clear , may also be wlitten in the two forms and X if , for shortness , are writtell to denote respectively , it being undelstood that in each of these forms the operate on the only .
Condition family of surfaces may belong to an Orthogonal System .
Article Nos. 42 to 49 .
42 .
We pass at once to the condition in order that the family of surfaces may to an orthogonal system , viz. , when the vicinal surface belongs to the family , we have proportional to , and the condition is where is a function of , the first and second differential coefficients of which are ; and the equation is thus a partial differential equation of the third older satisfied by .
The form is by no means an inconvenient one , but it admits of furthel reduction .
43 .
We have equal to , - l.espectively , and thence or , as these may be written , .
PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
249 with the like values for \amp ; c. Substituting , the equation contains a term multiplied by , viz. this is which vanishes ; and a term multiplied by , viz. this is , which also vanishes .
iting down the remaining terms , and multiplying the whole by , the equation becomes 44 .
The last term admits of reduction ; from the equations , \amp ; c. , we find ( A ) , ( H)YFoZ W , ( G ) , and hence ; whelefore the equation becomes 45 .
It will be shown that we have identically , , , X , , X , , X , , X , The partial differential equation thus assumes the where may be expressed indifferently in the three forms , X , 46 .
Taking the first of these , the partial equation is ; PROFESSOR CAYLEY ON CURVATURE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
vritten at full length , it is ( A ) where the coefficients are given functions of X , , the first and second diffelential coefficients of ; and is written to denote 47 .
It remains to prove the above-mentioned identities .
To leduce the term , we have , is , and similarly , , whence X , 48 .
Now , from the equations \amp ; c. , we have for the value of twice the foregoing determinant ; the function , , which is PROFESSOB CAYLEY ON CURVATUBE AND ORTHOGONAL SURFACES .
) the difference is found to be which , on account of , and , l.educes itself to .
We have ; or observing that in the coefficients of and the second tel.ms each vanish , this , and similarly , .
these equations , the coefficient of X is the difference of two expressions of which vanishes ; and the like as regards the coefficients of ; that is , ; and consequently X , X , . . .
the required relation .

