172 Dr. T. L. Brunton and Mr. W. Pie on the [ June 15 , XXI .
-"Physiological Action of the Bark of Erythrophleum guinense ( Casca , Cassa , or Sassy Bark)/ ' By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Walter Pye , M.R.C.S. Received June 15 , 1876 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
It diminishes oxidation , and thus prevents fresh vegetable tissues from communicating a blue colour to tincture of guaiac .
2 .
It does not hinder the development of the yeast-fungus nor the germination of seeds .
Penicillium grows freely in a solution of it .
3 .
A watery solution of the alcoholic extract prevents the development of Bacteria , but one of the watery extract does not do so .
4 .
It does not destroy the life of Bacteria or Infusoria .
The motion of cilia is not arrested by it .
5 .
It arrests amoeboid movement in leucocytes .
6 .
It has no action on fresh muscular fibre ; but muscular tissue , when kept in a solution of the alcoholic extract for some days , undergoes extensive fatty metamorphosis , but does not become putrid .
It does not alter the sensibility of muscle to electrical stimuli , nor does it diminish its lifting power .
7 .
It has little , if any , poisonous action on the Invertebrata .
8 .
It has a comparatively slight action on fishes and frogs .
The symptoms produced by its administration are failure of muscular power , preceded by irregular muscular movement .
9 .
On birds a small dose produces violent vomiting and irregular muscular movements , with difficult respiration .
These symptoms are followed by loss of muscular power and death .
10 .
In cats and dogs the symptoms are restlessness , nausea succeeded by violent vomiting , spasmodic jerks of the limbs during locomotion , quickened respiration , staggering gait , inability to stand , and death generally during a convulsion of an emprosthotonic character , apparently connected with an attempt to vomit .
Consciousness seems to be preserved to the last .
When injected subcutaneously , although it produces violent vomiting , it never purges ; division of the vagi before its administration lessens or prevents the vomiting usually observed , as Avell as the other symptoms of distress ; and in one instance a dose which would ordinarily have been speedily fatal produced no apparent effect in an animal thus operated on .
11 .
When injected into the stomach of a cat it produces violent vomiting and purging .
Sometimes this is followed by recovery , in other cases by loss of muscular power and death .
12 .
Injection of atropia does not prevent death ; and although in one case it prolonged life for two hours , in other instances it seemed rather to accelerate a fatal issue .
13 .
It causes the heart in frogs to pulsate more slowly ; the ventricle 1876 .
] Action of the Bark ofErytlirophleum guinense .
173 becomes irregularly contracted , leaving pouches over the surface , and finally is arrested in systole ; the auricles contract for some time longer .
14 .
In cats the ventricle also becomes irregularly contracted before finally stopping .
15 .
In frogs it causes no rise of the blood-pressure in the aorta , but raises the oscillation of the mercurial column connected with the vessel to three times its previous height .
10 .
In cats and dogs moderate doses injected into the jugular vein first raise the blood-pressure without altering the rate of cardiac pulsation or the extent of oscillation at each beat ; they then slow the heart by stimulating the roots of the vagus .
The tension rises , notwithstanding the slowness of the heart 's beats .
An additional dose paralyzes the ends of the vagus in the heart , and quickens its pulsations ; the pressure rises slightly .
A further dose again slows the heart by acting on its ganglionic apparatus , and the beats sometimes fall as low as three per minute , three or four respirations occurring during each cardiac diastole .
Notwithstanding the very slow action of the heart , the pres-sui'e may remain as high as 165 millimetres of mercury , a fact which indicates that the arterioles are in a state of extreme contraction .
After the heart has ceased , the pressure falls very slowly .
Slight pulsations of the ventricle occasionally occur when the thorax is opened .
17 .
Small doses do not seem to increase the excitability of the peripheral ends of the vagi to electrical stimuli ; moderate and large doses paralyze these nerves .
18 .
After injection of casca into the veins of an animal completely narcotized by chloroform , electrical irritation of the central end of the divided vagus of one side , the other remaining intact , is followed after a short interval by marked slowing of the pulse , fall of blood-pressure , and increased oscillation .
19 .
When injected into the veins of a cat after division of the spinal cord opposite the second cervical vertebra , the blood-pressure rises to a greater height than is attained under other conditions .
20 .
When in the rabbit the sympathetic has been divided in the neck on one side , subsequent injection of casca into the jugular vein produces pallor of the recently congested ear of the side on which the division had been made .
" ^4 , " Wh'n ^0Ca^y applied to the web of a frog 's foot temporary slowing ot the circulation was observed , but no alteration in the diameter of the blood-vessels .
When injected beneath the skin of the back of a frog it produces no visible effect on the vessels of the web .
22 .
It does not appear to possess any special action on reflex excitability .
23 .
In moderate doses it increases the secretion of urine at the same time that it raises the blood-pressure .
Further doses diminish the secretion , while they raise the pressure yet more ; and at the time when the pressure reaches its maximum the secretion of urine is entirely 174 Drs. Brunton and Fairer on Pulsation [ June 15 , arrested .
When the pressure begins to fall the secretion of urine again commences .
The urine collected after the recommencement of the secretion was not albuminous .
24 .
When injected into a loop of intestine it does not increase the secretion , nor does it produce any distinct congestion .
25 .
When applied to the eye it has no action on the pupil , nor does it cause congestion of the conjunctiva or lachrymation .
26 .
When administered to a pregnant cat it did not produce abortion .
27 .
The temperature of the body is not affected by administration of the drug .
XXII .
" Note on Independent Pulsation of the Pulmonary Veins and Vena Cava .
" By T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. , and Sir J. Fairer , M.D. , K.C.S.I. Received June 15 , 1876 .
In a former communication* we incidentally mentioned that in a rabbit killed by the injection of cobra-poison into the jugular vein we had observed the pulmonary vein pulsating after all motion had ceased in the cavities of the heart .
We have since observed the same phenomenon three or four times under conditions which show that this pulsation is not due to the action of the cobra-poison with which the animal in which we first observed it had been killed .
The following example will show the changes in rhythm observed in these pulsations .
A cat was chloroformed , and the vagi exposed and irritated by an interrupted current .
Artificial respiration was kept up by air containing chloroform vapour , and the thorax was then opened , and a solution of atropia injected directly into the heart by means of a Wood 's syringe .
The vagi were again irritated , but without any effect being produced on the heart , the inhibitory apparatus in it being evidently paralyzed by the atropia .
A solution of glycerine extract of physostigma was now injected into the heart in a similar way .
The vagi were now irritated again , and the heart stood still , the effect of the atropia having been counteracted by the physostigma .
After the irritation ceased the heart again commenced to pulsate .
Artificial respiration was now discontinued , but all the cavities of the heart continued to beat for a considerable time .
The ventricles then stopped , but the auricles continued to beat .
It was then noticed that the pulmonary veins in the right lung , which was exposed to view , were pulsating .
The veins , as well as both auricles , pulsated at the rate of 119 per minute , but the contractions of the veins were not synchronous with those of the auricles .
Both auricles next ceased to beat , but the pulmonary veins in both lungs continued to pulsate .
The ventricles now began to beat again , while the auricles remained still .
The ventricles pulsated at the rate of 8 per minute , while the pulmonary veins pulsated at the rate of 46 per minute ; and no motion was perceptible in any part of the auricles .
* Proceedings of the Royal Society , 1874 , vol. xxii .
p. 125 .

