Fig. 1 .
Philos A ICK L O DE C A A 100 90 VERY WET B VERY 80 70 60 50 WET C DRY 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 MIDDLE STATE 10 Philos. Trans. Vol. LIV .
TAB. XVI.p .
259 .
A B OF N B A A 100 ERY DRY 90 80 70 60 Fig. 2 .
50 XLVI .
The Description of a New Hygrometer , invented by James Ferguson , F. R. S. IN this machine ( T A B. XVI .
Fig. 1 .
and 2 .
) AAAA is a frame of wainscot or mahogany , grooved in the innermost edges of the two longest sides , for holding a panel BBBB of white deal-board , without pinching it .
The panel is about the thickness of a crown piece , and fifteen inches in length , cross-wife to the grain of the wood .
The middle part projects outward from the upper and lower edges , at C and C , where it is fastened into the frame by two screws , to keep the middle part always in the same place , whilst the rest of the panel expands by moist air toward both ends of the frame , and contracts toward the middle when the air is dry .
F is a pin fixed into the panel near one of its ends , and a round pin is fixed near the other end of the panel , on which the large pulley H turns , and also the small pulley G which is fixed to H. One end of a small flexible cord DE is fastened to the pin F , and the other end goes round the pulley G , and is fixed into the bottom of its groove , as at h. One end of another small cord IK is fixed into the bottom of the groove of the large pulley H , as at a , from which it goes round the part ai H ; and in its way thence to M it goes round a small pulley L , in which an axis is fixed , and turns in the piece O , which lies above the pulley , and is screwed to the upper side of the frame at C. This cord goes over the pulley M ( which turns on a round pin fixed into the panel ) and has a flattish weight N hung to it .
The pullies G and L are of equal diameters in their grooves , which is only equal to a tenth part of the diameter of the large pulley H in its groove .
The pulley M may be of any convenient size .
Read Nov. 8 , 1764 .
Now it is plain , that as much as the panel expands between F and G , so much will the pulley G be removed farther from the pin F ; and just so much will the cord DE turn the pulley G backward ; and any point in the groove of the pulley H ten times as much , because it is ten times the diameter of G in the groove : and this motion will cause the cord IK to turn the pulley L ( and draw up the weight N ) ten times as much as the pulley G is turned .
So that , if the panel expands a tenth part of an inch , by moist air , the pulley L will be turned quite round : and half round if the panel expands but a 20th part of an inch : As the air grows dry , the panel contracts , and the weight M descends and turns all the pullies the contrary way .
The back of the plate AA ( Fig. 2 .
) is screwed to the other side of the frame ( Fig. 1 .
) so as the straight edge of the plate may be even with the uppermost side of the frame , and the center B ( Fig. 2 .
) may be directly over the center of the pulley L ( Fig. 1 .
) on whose axis the index BC ( Fig. 2 .
) is fixed .
And as the pulley L is turned by the cord I K , the index will be moved on the plate , and show the degrees of moisture or dryness of the air .
If the expansion and contraction of the panel be so great as to move the index beyond the limits of the degrees on the plate , this may be remedied by putting on a larger pulley at L. But if not great enough , in very wet and very dry weather , to move the index through all the degrees on the plate , the pulley L must be made less in diameter accordingly .
N. B. In three or four years at most , a new panel should be put into the frame : because , when the old one has been so long exposed to the air , it will almost cease to be affected thereby .
And therefore , a large thick piece of deal should be kept in reserve for that purpose ; and about the thickness of a card always planed off that side from which the new panel is to be taken .
At G and M , there must be small knobs of some hard wood glued on the back of the panel below the graduated plate , to make a proper thickness for holding the wires upright and fast on which the pullies G and M do turn : for otherwise , the wires would soon loosen in the panel .
2

