New analytical Researches on the Nature of certain Bodies , being an Appendix to the Bakerian Lecture for 1808 .
By Humphry Davy , Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I. [ Phil. Trans. 1809 , p. 450 .
] Mr. Davy , having in the experiments described in the late Bakerian lecture , found that a quantity of nitrogen disappeared during the action of potassium on ammonia , and that it could not be made to resume its gaseous state but by the agency of oxygen in water , has been from that time much occupied in determining , with certainty , all the circumstances of the process ; and though he cannot yet speak with precision as to the quantities , he thinks the general results decisive with respect to a decomposition of nitrogen having been effected .
When potassium is heated in ammoniacal gas , it becomes an olivecoloured fusible substance , losing all its metallic properties , a quantity of hydrogen is evolved , and ammonia disappears .
In the Bakerian lecture it was stated , that upon heating the olivecoloured substance a part of the ammonia is recovered ; but when all moisture is carefully excluded , this quantity of ammonia does not amount to one tenth part of the quantity absorbed ; : and even this quantity appears to be owing to the almost unavoidable presence of moisture or oxygen .
In the present experiments , after taking all possible care to exclude moisture , since the glass of the vessels might possibly yield oxygen when in contact with potassium , a small tray of platina , containing the potassium intended to act upon the ammonia , was introduced into a retort containing the gas , and afterwards transferred expeditiously into a clean iron or platina tube made air tight , and furnished with a stop-cock .
In one experiment it was ascertained that 12cubic inches of ammonia are decomposed by nine grains of potassium , and evolve 81 of hydrogen .
In a second experiment , instead of reserving the gas for experiment , an equal quantity of potassium was used , and immediately transferred into an iron tube .
The tube being then filled with hydrogen , and connected with a mercurial apparatus , was heated gradually .
The quantity of gas collected previously to its acquiring a red heat , amounted to 9I cubic inches , and four inches more were collected by raising the heat to whiteness .
Of the former portion , about three fourths of an inch were ammonia ; the remainder of the gas consisted of hydrogen and nitrogen , in the proportion of 8 to 3 ; so that the total quantity of hydrogen collected in this analysis , amounted to 16inches , and the nitrogen to three cubic inches .
If the same quantity of ammonia had been decomposed by electricity , it would have yielded 15 of hydrogen , and 6 or 7 of nitrogen ; so that in the present experiment there was a loss of between three and four inches of nitrogen to be sought in the residuum which had been heated in the metallic tube .
But when the tube was opened , nothing was found but potash that had been fused , and a small quantity of potassium sublimed into its upper part ; so that in the place of the nitrogen nothing was found but oxygen contained in the potash , which , together with a small excess of hydrogen , may amount to the weight of the nitrogen lost .
In other experiments five grains of the olive-coloured ammoniacal pyrophorus , formed by potassium , yielded by mere heat , or by oxygen , three fourths of an inch of nitrogen ; but by water they evolved one fifth of hydrogen , and 3of ammonia , which by estimate contain 12 of nitrogen .
If the nitrogen is to be considered as converted into oxygen and hydrogen , it must be regarded as containing much more oxygen than water ; and if we do not adopt this supposition , Mr. Davy considers the only alternative to be , that water is the ponderable matter which , under different modifications of electro-chemical existence , constitutes oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen , and the nitrous compounds ; but with respect to conclusions so important , and so little to be expected by any analytical chemist , it appears to Mr. Davy highly unphilosophical to decide in the present state of our knowledge .

