III .
An Account of the Success of an Attempt to continue several Atmospheres of Air condensed in the space of one , for a considerable time .
By Mr. Fr. Hauksbee , F. R. S. March 30 , 1708 .
I Injected with my Siringe into a very thick FlintGlass Bottle , ( which I had procured to be made on purpose for the Experiment ) between four and five Atmospheres of Air , as the included Gage demonstrated , which continued in that State till about the 7th of August following ; when looking o n't , ( as usually once in four or five Days ) I found that the Air Injected at the prementioned time , had made its Escape , the Weather for a Week before ( or thereabouts ) having been very hot ; especially one Day I observed the Spirit in the Thermometer had ascended one hundred and twenty Degrees above the Freezing Point .
And notwithstanding the Bottle was continually kept under Water , yet the Cement meant , that was made use of to fasten the Brass Cap to it , suffered such a Softness , as rendered it incapable to resist the Spring of the Injected Air .
I observed , that altho ' all the Air as was capable of spring was fled , yet the Mercury in the Gage remained about three quarters of an Inch in height , above the Surface of that in which its open end was immersed ; which was about a 6th part less space , than what the same Air possessed before the Injection , and still remains so , notwithstanding it is constantly exposed to the open Air .
Which manifestly shows , that the Springs , or constituent Parts of the Air , do not in time totally restore themselves after standing so long bent .
And had not the Accident of Heat happened , but it had continued in that State , as at first Injected , for a Year or two , ( as I hoped for ) I doubt not , but the Springs of it would have been rendered much more incapable of their Restoration .
From hence it is easy to conclude , that if nine or ten Atmospheres of Air were condensed in the space of one , and to remain in that State for a Year or two ; that when the Vessel , that contains them , shall become exposed open to the Air , that then Bodies , such as very thin Glass Bubbles , ( supposing them not to be above five or six times specifically heavier than their like Bulk of common Air ) would float on such a Medium , which would be very surprising , to see a Body supported by an Invisible Agent .
But I am not sure of this , for I cannot tell but it may be a means to render Air visible ; From whence some Discoveries may be made , which otherwise it may be impossible to know .
But let it happen how it will ( for Nature will have her own ways ) I doubt not but several useful Inferences may be made from such an Experiment .

