]\gt ; INDEX SLIP .
pointing , J. H. , and GRAY , P. L.\mdash ; An Experiment in Search of a Directive Action of one Quartz Orystal on another . .
: Phil. Trans. , , vol. 192 , 1899 , pp. GRAY , P. L. , and POINTING , J. H.\mdash ; An Experiment in Search of a Directive Action of one Quartz Crystal on another .
245256 .
Phil. Trans. , , vol. 192 , 1899 , pp. Crystals , Gravitative Action between .
, J. H. , and GBAY , P. L. Phil. Trans. , , 1899 , pp. 245-256 .
Gravitation Constant of Quartz ; an Experiment in Search of Possible fferences Phil. Trans. , , vol. , 1899 , pp. TING , J. H. , and GBAY , P. L. : ' 24 V. An Experiment in Search ) Acfion of ono on .
J. H. POINTING , Sc. D. , F. R.S. , P. L. GRAY , B.Sc Received September 27 , \mdash ; Rcad November 17 , 1898 .
so many of the physical properties of crystals differ along the different axes , our ignorance of the nature and origin of gravitation allows us to that the gravitative field of cr stals may also diffel those axes .
Dr. A. S. Phys. has described an experiment in which he failed to find any such difference .
Using form of the ndish j , he showed that the attraction ] of calc-spar cryst on lead and on crystals was independent of the orientation of the within the limits of experimental error\mdash ; about one-half per cent. of the .
He further showed that the inverse-square law holds in the ) hood of crystal , the attractions at distances centims. , , and centilns .
with law to one-fifth per cent. One of the authors of this paper had already pointed otlt ( ' The Mean Density of the Earth , ' 1894 , p. 7 ) that if the ttraction between two crystal different for a given accord i as their like axes were parallel or crossed , such difference should show itself by a directive action on one sphere in the field of the other .
This irective action is ested by the growtb of a crystal from solution , where the successive parts down in parallel which ] which we might perhaps interpret on the molecular hypobhesis as within molecular at least , there is ecbi v acbion .
The experiment now to be described is tion of one in the work above referred to , Tied out for two quart ) ] leres , at once that we have certainly not succeeded in the existence of a dircct i action of kind for .
To .
out the principle of the method , let us suppose that the of the tion between two spheres with .
like ilxes parallel , as in , GMM ' where are the lnasses , the distance between the , and for this arrangement .
Let us further suppose that the law of ctio when the axes are crossed , as in fig. ) , is , where is .
his meant , and different G. Let us start with the apart , as in fig. 1 .
The work done in renloving 17 .
1 but wit , the axes crossed .
erence between the works done on and pproach .
Tf we take the average of conple as , then difference the gravitabive field .
fig. 1 , and fig. 1 ( b ) .
Taking the couple as a slne function of amplitude , we have the other when they are opposite directions , and we have [ ACTION OF ON1 ON ] 2 .
47 But if is the amplitude of the couple and To seek ) , nse of of tions , to extent efFecb , the Sitlne time la the , to disturban ces .
thethod :\mdash ; A , about centim } diameter , in a to which l a as at ched , and led by a inside bras , s osit inined I the of scale in let t of tion ) seconds .
Outside ) was larger centi1ns .
in its centre ) level with t of the SllSl ) ended sphere , and cenlinls .
from it .
er spher could vertical clXiS ] its centre at any desired .
The of ) ) of ] ) to the line To test for couple , was period nearly ] of ) .
To test for couple , the ) here was once in 115 secon , or nearly of smaller sphcre .
Assuming a couple exists , rotation of the larger sphere would set forcerl oscillation in of the period the , and the very derable , this forced oscillation would soon rise to its full value .
, itny ) vibrations of the suspended system would ) rapidly -aped oub .
renewed by nces due convectio -cnrrents , they would be there was no reason to suspect ] particular ' of the period of the applied couple .
ibntio of successive of natural abions of the smaller sphere ovel all the forced period , the latter made sensibly different from the natural period in th ratio 23 : 24 ; and tbough the cumulative eflect of the forced tions was reduced by the largeness of this difference , we did not think it ) to peliods more nearly coincident , lest ) distribution of the disturbances , which sometimes large , should not be sufficient .
This conclusion was the of preliminary nents with more nearly equal periods .
During each complete of the ) applied , the position of naller sphere yead ten times at eqni-distant intervals of time , and the eadings were entered parallel columns , one ] line itcl ] period .
The observations were continued usually for 70 or 80 periods .
Adding up the columns and dividing by the number of periods , any forced oscillation would be indicat , ed by a periodicity in the quotients .
The periodicities found were too irregular to be taken as evidence of the existence of a couple .
Description of the The spheres were placed in a cellar at Mason College , Birmingham , below the room in which the observing telescope and rotating apparatus were fixed .
The smaller sphere , centim. diameter and weighing grams , was held in an aluminium wire cage , and was suspended by a long , fine quartz fibre in a brass case from a torsion-head at the top of the case .
A light plane mirror was fixed to the cage , and opposite this mirror was a glass window in the case ; in front of the window was a plane mirror at , by means of which the from the scale was reflected into the case and back again to the telescope , as shown in fig. 2 .
The case was surrounded by a double-sided wooden box , lined within and without with tin-foil , and with cotton-wool between its inner and outer walls .
The box was supported on indiarubber blocks to lessen tremors .
The larger sphere , centims. diameter and weighing grams , was held at the lower end of a vertical brass tube which terminated in a very carefully turned shallow brass bell , in which the sphere was held by tapes .
The tube passed upwards the top of the wooden casing without contact , a kind of air stuffing-box indicated in the figure to prevent currents through the hole .
The tube came into the room above , and there connected with a train of wheels , driven by an electromotor , the rotation of the motor being geared down from 1000 to 1 .
The observing telescope was fixed to a heavy stone slab resting on indiarubber blocks , standing on a brick-pillar , which was built on the brick arches forming the cellarroof .
A diagonal ] ( of half-millimetre graduations , divided into tenths by the diagonal ruling ) was clamped to the telescope-tube and illuminated by an incandescent lamp , aided by a concave mirror .
A tenth of a division could be read with certainty , and as the distance from scale to mirror was 358 centims. , the position of the suspended sphere could be determined within a little more than one second of steady rotation of the larger sphere was maintained by a regulator , for which we are indebted to Mr. R. H. HOUSMAN .
It consisted of two parts:\mdash ; ( l ) the governor proper , which automatically ined approximate steadiness , and ( 2 ) fine hand-adjustment , by which the motion could xccelerated or retarded when it got " " out of time One lead to the motor went through two mercury-cups , and the circuit was completed by a fork of platinum-wire dipping into the cups .
This wire fastened CTlVE ACTION OF ONE QUARTZ CRYSTAL ON ANOTHhR .
to one end of a wooden lever , the other end of which was attached to a collar on the axle of the motor .
To collar fastened the upper ends of the springs of the governor , as shown in the figure .
If the speed increased , the Diagrammatic sketch of the apparatus .
flying out pulled the collar down and so raised the wire out of the mercury-cups , and broke the circuit .
As the speed diminished , the wire again dipped into the mercury and re-established the current .
To diminish sparking the mercury was covered with alcohol and the two cups were permanently connected by high resistance shunt .
VOL. CXCII . .
2 fino hand-adjustment consisted of a small wooden plunger working in a connected with one of the mercury-cups ; by means of a screw the plunger could be ised or vered , and the level of the merc in the cup varied accordingly .
If the revolving sphere was found to be gaining or losing , it was quite easy to bring it " " up to time\ldquo ; again by the screw of the plunger .
The last of the of driving-wheels was fixed on the tube supporting the sphere ; its was divided into equal parbs by numbered marks , the use of will be explained directly .
There were 20 numbered marks , at interval ; of these only 10 alternate ones were used for the quicker rotation , while the whole 20 were used for the slower speed .
The Observations .
Two observers were required , one at the telescope to note the position of the smaller sphere , the other to regulate the speed of rotation of the larger sphere , and to notify when dings were to be taken by the observer .
The 1notion having been started , and to about the right speed , a time-table was rapidly the times , on the chronometer used , at which each of the numbered marks above mentioned should pass a fixed mark throughout the whole set of observations for one occasion .
A was given at of a mark past the fixed point , the observer at the telescope putting down the simultaneous scale-reading in a manner which will be understood from Table I. , which may as a typical record .
It does not appear to be necessary to give the full details in other cases .
If the motion did Pot keep to the time-ta'ole , it was easily corrected by the hand adjustment described .
Every reading in the same column is taken at the same phase in the rotation of the larger sphere , and therefore the mean readings of the columns should preserve any periodicity in the motion of the smaller sphere equal to that of the larger sphere , and more or less eliminate all others .
These mean readings are given at the foot of Table I. , ( and appear to indicate a slight periodic vibration , but this might be due to a want of symmetry in the larger sphere and its attachments about its axis of rotation , since the system .
the smaller sphere and mirror was necessarily not symmetrical .
The observations for each couple were on this account divided into two sets : for the semicircular couple the larger sphere was in the second set turned through ] about a vertical axis from its position in the first set ; for the quadrantal couple the rotation was For the final results the means of the results of the two sets were taken , in each case after the second set had been advanced by an amount corresponding to the change of position of the sphere .
Table II .
contains all the mean results obtained in the same way as the figures at the foot of Table I. , the greatest range being given in the last column as an indication of the magnitude of the disturbances .
In Table III .
are given the means for each azimuth of the larger sphere in its support , the and series being advanced as mentioned above .
DIRECTIVE ACTION OF ONE QUARTZ CRYSTAL ON ANOTHER .
In combining the results it appeared useless to attempt to weight them ) to the number of periods taken , since no accurate conclusion could be expected .
It will be seen that in each case thel e is an outstanding periodicity , but the } ) litude is less when the disturbances ( as indicated by the greatest range during a period ) are less , and it diminishes when the results are combined so as to lessen the effecb of want of symmetry .
In the " " quadrantal\ldquo ; observations Series , where the effect of of symmetry of the apparatus should almost be eliminated , since it is approximately semicircular , the mean range is much smaller than in Series A and B. For these reasons do not think that our observations can be taken as indicating the existence of a couple of the kind sought , but only as giving a superior limit to its value , should it exist .
We now proceed to the Calculation of Superior Limit of Couple .
Equation of Motion of the Smaller Sphere .
I be the moment of inertia of sphere and cage .
, , , , torsion couple per radian .
, , , clamping couple per unit au1gular velocity .
be the supposed couple due to the larger sphere , having period Then pt .
Putting we have pt ( 1 ) .
The solution of this is .
( 2 ) where and are constants .
The first term in the value of in ( 2 ) gives the forced , and the second term the natural vibrations , the period of the latter being , say .
The value of was always very near to 120 secs .
, and the mean of various determinations during the observations gave secs .
( 3 ) .
Value of .\mdash ; When there are only natural vibrations The value of this ratio was usually near .
The mean of a number of determinations taken at various times was .
Putting get Value of .\mdash ; Snbstituting for in the value of in ( 3 ) we get and of \mdash ; The forced period was always 115 secs .
, whence and From equation ( 1 ) it will be seen that the steady deflection due to is while from ( 2 ) the amplitude of the forced oscillations is or Using the values found for and we have or the forced oscillations give a cumulative effect , about four times the steady deflection due to the couple at its maximum value .
Value of Moment of , I.\mdash ; This was found by vibrating the ca ge hung by .
short quartz fibre , ( 1 ) when empty , ( 2 ) when the sphere , the times of vibration being respecbively secs .
and secs .
The sphere weighs grams , and its radius is centim. , so that its moment of inertia From this , and the times of vibration , we get Value of F.\mdash ; The vibrations were observed in scale divisioos , each centim. , the distance between mirror and scale being ) tims .
If is the number of scale divisions in the amplitude of vibration , i.e. , in half the range , we have from ( 2 ) DIRECTIVE ACTION ONE QUARTZ CRYSTAL ON ANOTHER .
whence FEI using the values already found for , I. Taking the limiting values of the amplitudes as hadf the mean ranges given in Table III .
, the vibration due to the quadrantal couple has amplitude not greater than that due to the semicircular couple , amplitude not greater than .
Whence ( quadrantal ) is not greater than and ( semicircular ) is not greater than Perhaps some idea of these values may be obtained by noticing that the times of vibration of the small sphere under couple per radian would be respectively 32 hours and 25 hours .
But it is probably best to interpret the value in terms of the assumptions we made as to the force in the introduction .
We found for the quadrantal couple where MM ' are the masses of the spheres , the distance between their centres , the parallel and crossed gravitation constants .
Now , the mass of the larger sphere , is , say 400 grams , , , , , smaller , , grams , is centims. , and are exceedingly no , are whence On the assumed law of force this implies the attractions between the two spheres , with distance centims. between their centres , do not differ in the parallel and crossed positions by as much as of the whole attraction .
We may compare this result with values of the refractive in lices of quartz for the mean line about .
For the semicircular couple whence On the assumed law of force , this implies spheres , with distance centims. between and respectively in like and unlike direction the whole attraction .
This limit is large , undoubtedly owing apparatus which produced a semicircular coup was large , and though we attempted to elim with the different azimuths of the larger TABLE I.\mdash ; owin in Tenth Columns .
Time of Revolution ACTION OF ] QUARTZ CRYSTAL ON TABLE I. ( continued).\mdash ; Showing Scale-Readings in Tenths of a Division at Phases at Heads of Colunlns .
Time of Revolution of Sphere 115 secs .
Mean of 80 in ) ) ) ) divisions .
4 .
Mean ision .
Greatest range in one period division

