]\gt ; II .
ofof a cmct Repr esenting the on the H. M. , Felton ) of by A. oRbYTlI , Sc. D. , eceived Junc 13 , \mdash ; Read JUIIC , lb9 Revised Octobel ( 30 , 189 existence of straight lines on a cubic surface , the number of then ] , elations to each other was first discussed in dence between nd CAYLEY .
In a paper which appeared in 1849 , in vol. 4 of the Dublin Mathematical Journal , ' " " On the Triple Planes of Surfaces of the Third Order CAYLEY gave a sketch of what was then , and gave the equations of the forty-five planes in which the twenty-seven lines on the surface lie by threes , when the equation of the face is taken in a ticular form .
In the above-mentioned paper , AYLEY 1 , " " there is great fliculty in the complete by twency-seven lines : indeed , this can hardly , I , be accomplished until a more perfecb notation is discovered SCHLAFLI has discovered a notation of great merit which afforrls a ) verful method of dealing with the twenty-seven lines ; it is based upon the selection of some twelve of the lines which form a " " double six The author of this paper endeavoured to find a notation for the twenty-seven lines , which did not depend on any special selection among them .
He hopes that the method he has dopted of representing by a plane diagram bhe intel.section or -interbection of the twentyseven lines with each other will be found of some interest . .
distinct forms of the diagl.am are given : one will be found of use for one purpose , and another for another ; lthough e contains ything t is contained in the others .
In fact , one is obtained anothel by purely icaJ aIteration .
The contents of this paper may , stated shortly as follows:\mdash ; In S1 it is shown that the tion of the genelal cubic surface be rhrowll into bhe * As originalIy communicated , this paper was enbitled , " " On hical of Twenty-seven Lines on a Cubic ufaco .
' ' of hcmabics , ME .
H. AYLOR ON A FORbI OF THE KLMN ) ) , where equated to zero represent planes .
2-9 , it is shown how to obtain the of the twenty-seven lines on the surface whose tion is and .
it is shown ) which of the twenty-seven lines tersect e othel ID 10 the method of esentation by a plane-diagram is explained , and the remaining part of the paper con sists chiefly in deducing mutual relations between the lines by means of the diagram or one of its transformations .
It ) may be explained that of the four transformations of the diagram , Figure A is arranged to show that the lines which are numbered 1 to 15 form in threes , five triangles ; the emaining 1 lines , which numbered 16 to 27 , do not form a single triangle by themselves .
Figure is to show that not olJly can nine planes be drawn to pass hrough all the twenty-seven lines , but that they can be arranged in three sets of nine each , such that each set forms three triangles in two distinct ways .
Figure is ) to exhibit what is called a " " double six\ldquo ; in the left hand top .
It is of use for observing what lines intersect or do not intersect a number of non-intersecting aight lines , such as the six numbel .
, 21 , 8 , , 3 , 4 , or the six numbered 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , 9 , 10 .
Figure is ranged to show that it is possible to form a closed polygon of all the twenty-seven lines , sLlch that no side intersects either of the sides next but one to itself .
This figure is of use for observing what lines intersect , or do not intersect , the sides of , a closed , pentagon , or hexagon , such as are formed by the lines , 17 , 1 , 19 ; 16 , 23 , 26 , 17 , 1 , , 3 , 10 , 1 ] , 9 , resl ) ectively .
this ) fact twelve lines six .
, is taled .
GENERAL QUATION OF A CUBIC S1 .
If be eight linear functions of point coordinates in three dimensions , so that any one of them equated to zero represents plane , then the equation KLMN PQRS . . . . .
( A ) represents a quartic surface , which passes through each of the 16 straight lin es given by the intersection of one plane from each of the The equation available Now if the planes be so related that the intersectionls of the of planes ; , lie on a plane , or , other , if the two represented by the two sets of planes and be in ' then , without further affecting the generality of the choice of the eight planes , we may assume ; and the equation of the SUl.face may be written KLMN ) ) \mdash ; N ) .
This is the equation of a qual.tic surface , which passes ough lb lines , and in which there are , or 20 ayailable constants .
If , we take , the term KLMN cancels , and the equation becomes divisible by , the remaining factor equated to zero . . . .
( B ) the equation of a cubic surface , which passes twelve jght lines , and which contains 19 con stants , the number of a cubic surface .
Aud since , if MR. H. AYLOR ON PhCIAL J OF then it satisfy equation ( B ) identically .
the equivalent to the equat ons Hence the line esented by these equations lies on the surface .
Similarly we see that the pairs of equations and also satisfy tiou ( identically .
Hence the stl.aight lines , whose equations are lie 011 the snrface .
We have tlms the equations of fifteen straight lines which lie on the cubic surface csented by equation . . . .
( ) .
Now , convenionce , let take instead of , i.e. , let us clloose the hedro ABCD by the four planes as the tetraof reference .
we represent .
planes by where constants .
EQUATION A CUBIC Then the equation ( A ) takes the form ( ) , and it represents , besides the plane , the cubic surface passing through the twelve straight lines , which are represented in an nexed well as three other straight lines which are not represented in the figure .
The equations of the lines may be written as follows :\mdash ; and which lneets ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) , ( 9 ) , N Il .
H. M. TAYLOR ON A FORM OF , Yyhich meets ( 2 ) , ( b ) , ( 8 ) , and ( 11 ) ; and , which meets ( 1 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , and ( 12 ) .
S3 .
It is well known that every plane section of a cubic surface is a cubic curve .
If , therefore , two straight lines be part of such a section , the remaining part of the section is a third straight line .
If three straight lines fornl the section of a cubic surface by a plane , every straight line on the surface must meet one of these lines only one .
We must , therefore , be able to construct all the remaining straight lines on the surface , by drawing all the straight lines hich intersect each of the four triangles formed by the four sets of straight lines 1 , 2 , 3 ; 4 , 5 , 6 ; 7 , 8 , 9 ; and lO , 11 , 12 .
Now , since the twelve lines make triangles when taken also in the groups 6 , 8 , 10 ; 1 , 9 , 11 ; 2 , 4 , 12 ; and 3 , 5 , 7 , it follows that every straight line on the surface must intersect one and only one from each of these groups .
Every straight line on the surface must therefore intersect one line in each row , one line in each column in the scheme ; There a.re nine can select one irom row and o1le from each column , .
:-GENERAL EQUATION OF A CUBIC SURFACb1 . .
S4 .
In these groups there are distinct types of relation .
Each of the three groups represents two pairs of intersecting lines ; for instance , the pair 3 and 10 intersect each other , and the pair 4 and 9 intersect each other , but neither 3 nor 10 intersects 4 or 9 .
It is clear that the intersection of the plane containing the lines 3 and 10 and the plane containing the lines 4 and 9 meets the surface in four points , and therefore lies entirely on the surface .
Its equations are .
In the same way it follows that the intersection of the ] anes of the lines 2 , 8 , and 5 , 11 , is a line on the surface , whose equations are 4 ) .
and that the intersection of the planes of the lines ] , 1 is line on the surface , whose equations are .
It will be observed that each of the lines 13 , 14 , and 15 lies in the plane : these three lines therefore meet each other and form a triangle .
of the remaining six groups 5 8 12 ( ii .
) 2 5 9 10 ( iii .
) 2 6 7 ( iv .
) represents a set of non-intersecting lines .
straight lines can be drawn to meet four non-intersecting straight lines ; there- lore two straight lines can be drawn to meet the lines of each group , and all straight lines so drawn will lie entirely on the surface .
We ore thus supplied with twelve more lines the surface .
From lvhat has preceded it will be clear that there is no other way of drawing a straight line on the surface .
We have now obtained the whole of the twenty-seven lines which it is well known lie on the surface .
The lines which meet the groups , ii .
, iii .
iv .
, , will be called 16 , 1 ; 18 , 19 ; 20 , 21 ; 22 , , 27 respectively .
S6 .
We will now proceed to find the equations of the lines 16 , 17 which intersect the lines , 1 , 4 , 7 and 10 .
Any line intersecting 1 and 7 is represented by equations of the form or ( 17 ) .
Since this line intersects ( 4 ) whose equations are NERAL EQUATION OF A CUBIC the equations are simultaneously true .
Hence @ Again , because this line intersects 10 , whose equations are the equations are satisfied Hence These equations of condition may be written as follows:\mdash ; It is clear that the values of and are the roots of the equations respectively .
It is also clear that the roots of these tions must ) so satisfy the equati on ON bc 7 .
Next will find the of the lines 18 al1 , which meet the lines , 8 , 1 Any line int ) yeqtions of ' ( 18 ) or ( 19 ) .
this line intersects ( 5 ) , whose equations are simultaneously frne .
Hence beci ) line in tersects ( 8 ) , whose equations ' .
equations I 1 en @ LQU ION OF A CUBIC ] 5 1 hese equations of .
condition be written S respectiyely .
Hence the vitlues of the roots of eqnations respectively .
It will be observed that the equation to find in determining the equations of 18 and 19 is identical with the equation to find i11 the tion of 16 and 17 .
It appeal .
S , thel.efore , one of the two lines 18 and lies in the plane of 1 and 16 , and the other in the plane of 1 and 17 .
Here we assume that the complanar sets are 1 , , 19 , and 1 , 17 , 18 .
In exactly sinilar manner we can prove that of one sects o .
of the lines of the second ) in the of of the sets .
; .
; .
; ii. .
iii .
; .
; ii .
, .
; iii .
, iv ; iii .
, , , .
; are three other sets of , to different llethod applied , .
; ii .
, iv .
and iii .
, .
Let us consider lines 0 the is , the lines 24 and 25 , which intersect lines 3 , 6 , Any line intersecting 3 and 9 is epresented by equations .
the .
Since this line sects ( , whose the simultaneously true . .
H. ON A CIAL OF cnce @ Again , because this line intersects 12 , whose equations are the equations true neously .
lfence S\mdash ; tions of condition be .
the values of !
must be so chosen they tisfy the equation / It will ) eobsel.ved that the equation to find determining the equations of and 25 identical with the equation to find determining the equations of and 17 .
, it is clear the tions GENERAL EQUATION OF A CUBIC URFACE .
are simultaneously true if .
It follows , therefore , that each of the .
of lines 16 , 17 cuts one or other of the pair 24 , 25 .
In an exactly similar manner we can prove that each line of one intersects or other of the lines of the second pair in the case of each of the sets of pairs ii .
, iy .
, and iii .
, vi .
S9 .
We have thus shown that any one of the original twelve lines cuts ten others ; the lin , for instance , cuts 2 , 3 , 6 , 9 , 11 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , and 19 .
Also we have shown that any one of the last twelve lines cuts nine others ; 16 , for instance , , 4 , 7 , 10 , and one from each of the pairs ii .
, iii .
, iy .
, .
It must , therefore , cut one more , and that must be one from the group 13 , 14 , 15 : since these three a triangle .
The equations of 14 are the equations of and If the lines , the tirst five equations must be simultaneously true .
Hence , eliminating and we see that the equations are simultaneously true .
Hence -1 or is identically trne , is at once seen by dividing ) respectively : and acting .
This vel.ifiesthe fact that eac of the lines the sects 1 Similarly it can be proved each of the ) .
intersects 14 , and intersects each uf the lines in the pairs ii .
, , and 15 intersects each of lines the , iii .
itnd We 1 of the lines on the cubic surface , each cuts ten } .
the others ; ore we have shown which line cuts which others .
all the twenty-seyen lines by their projections on a plane , should ]Jave to )uish between the projection of the actual intersection of .
of lines the apparent intersection of the projections of two non-inter .
lines .
We such deduce many of the relations which exist between the lines ; but vould be complicated , and the deductions would be ttended with ) of this we will l each line by one of series of rallel ight lines in ) ] , and will then assunle the figure turned round through , so two lines of the twenty-seven lines on the The iutel'section of lines in figure which represent the same line on the surface we zero .
The intel.section of two lines , which represent two intersecting lines on the surface , lnar with a star , intersection of lines , which two nonintersecting llines on the surface , is a dot .
With this the intersections of the -seven lines on the surface resented in , in hich each line is denoted by the number by which it has been known in the preceding Of course it must be possible such a figul.e to deduce all the relations which exist the lin es ; buc it will be found in ctual 1 ) tctice t tions of the figure nnore useful .
different purposes .
11 .
ill next ) oint out the properties implied by certain combinations of dots occur in the figure .
a tion / ' / , sect. the columns must } ) , ent the saule lines .
QUAT I A CUBIC Such a combination as * / , , .
implies that three lines intersect other in pairs , they forll the conloleteA section of surface by their plane , which triple tangent plane .
Here , , the rows and columns must represent the same lines .
Such a combination as * where the rows and the colunnnls necessarily epreseIlt differenlt lines , nplies that and are intersecting pairs , and that are pairs ; but the figure does not indicate whether the pairs and intersect or do not intersect .
The whole truth with ] ) to the intersections of the four lines ; not in the above figure .
When the whole truth is conveyed in the figure X. * that is , when there are no other intersections among the four lines than those sented in the figure 7 ) * we shall call t , he colTlbinalion a " " double \ldquo ; .
H. .
TAyLOR ON A FORM OF TH Such a combination as * .
( 7 the columns necessarily represenlt different lines , implies that the lines , taken in order , form a closed quadrilateral .
truth with respect to these four lines ls contained in this figure : no truth conveyed by the enlarged figure ; 7 ) ** * Such combination ** * ** ** * ' implies that each of the three lines ) , intersects each of the three lines It follows that the lines , 7 ) , non-intersecting , and also that are nonintersecting .
rfhis figure therefore the lvhole truth with respect to the six lines .
We shall call such a set of six lines a " " grille They form six of the generators of a hyperboloid of one sheet .
Such a ination as * * the rows and the necessarily represen ) different lines , indicates that the six lines , taken in order , form a closed hexagon .
EQUATION OF A CUBIC We shall call such a set of six lines , if there no other intersections , if whole truth with respect to their intersections is conveyed by the following figure , " " double three * * ** ** * * Such combine tion * * * * * * * where the rows and the columns necessarily represent lines , we call " " double four If any pair of non-intersecting lines , such as be omitted , the emaining six form a closed hexagon , of which each of the omitted lines intersects three sides .
The figure conveys the whole truth with respect to the intersections of the lines .
It may also be as epresenting a couple of closed quadrilaterals , , each side of either of which intersects ) \mdash ; and only one\mdash ; side of the other .
Such a combination 6 ) * * * * * * * bIDCCCXCIV.\mdash ; A. 1 is " " double five H. ON CIAL 1 OF THE represented ) 1 or a column intersects four of the lines represented by the or ths respectively .
The be representing a closed hexagon , say , inesb , , each of which intersects three alternate sides of the hexagon ; o ) .
it be interpreted as " " double four together with two lines , say of which cuts all the lines of one of the sets of four the double four .
a combination as * * * * ' * ** * * * ** * 4 , * * ' is called " " double Each line represented by a column insects five of the lines epresented by columns the respectively .
figure msy be intelpreted as two " " ills , \ldquo ; each line of either of which intersects of the lines of the other ; or , replesenting two closed each ] side of hich intersects three alternate sides of the other .
The hgure may be also as repl.esenting a " " double four\ldquo ; and four lines , eacb of which intersects four lines of one of the sets of the double four ; or , again , " " double iive\ldquo ; two lines , ch of which intel.sects the five lines of of sets of the double From see that the number of lines which do nut cut is 1 of these sixteen the same tion to the ] ; take any of , say .
Such a .
of lines as , 27 is called a " " duad Again , figure , we see the umber of lines which do not cut the duad 26 , 27 is 10 .
of ten ] the same relation to the duad ; any one of them , uch a ct is called a ' Again , see that the number of lines which do not cut the triad 26 , 27 , 5 is 6 .
of these six lines has the same relatiou to the triad ; take any one 0 then , set of lines as 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , is called a " " tetrad Again , from fignl.eC , we see the number of lines which do not cut the , 5 , 2 , is 3 : the lines which do not cut are 9 , 10 , and 13 .
These three lines , not the same to the tetrad .
The lines 9 and 10 have ' line of intersection with the tetrad : in fact , the line 4 cuts the lines EQUATION A CUBIC SURFAC 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , and 9 , and the line 3 cuts the lines 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , and 10 ; whereas both the lines 3 and 4 cut the lines 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , Such a set of lines as 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , 9 , is called a " " \ldquo ; Again , from , we see that there is but one line 10 , which does not cut the pentad 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , 9 .
Such a set oflines as 26 , 27 , 5 , 2 , 9 , 10 , is called a " " hexad We may summarize the last results by saying that the number of the lines of the surface which do not cut\mdash ; a line on the surface .
is ) ; either line of a duad , , 10 ; any , , , , ; tetrad , , ) ) ; , , pentad , , 1 ; , , , , hexad , , , Similarly , by inspection of th top six rows of , we conclude that\mdash ; 10lines on the surface cut a definite line on the surface , and 1 do not .
5lines cut both the lines of a duad ; 10lines cut 1 ; and 10 cut neither .
3lines cut all the lines of a triad ; lines cut 2 ; 9 lines cut 1 ; and cut Ilone .
2lines cut all the lines of a tetrad ; 4lines cut 3 ; lines cut 2 ; 8 lines cut 1 ; and 3 cut none .
1 line cuts all the lines of a pentad ; 5 lines cut 4 ; 10 cut 2 ; 5 cut 1 ; and 1 cuts none .
No lines cut all the lines of a hexad ; 6 lines cut 5 ; 15 cut 2 ; none cut 1 only ; and none cut none .
We are now enabled to find the number of different duads , triads , \amp ; c. Number of duads 216 ; triads ; , , tetrads .
1080 ; , , pentads .
) ; hexads 27 6 The results of S12 are all to be found in STURM , Synthetische Untersuchungen ichen Dritter Ordnung .
' .
It is well known that the number of triangles on a cubic surface is 45 .
We the nnmber of closed quadrilaterals , pentagons , and hexagons , restricting the denomination to polygons of the proper number of sides , no two des of which intersect each other except sides ection of one of the figures ( and for this purpose Figure is the convenienf ) it is easy to see the number of lines on the surface which intersect both lines of an open angle is 1 ( see lines 14 , 24 ) , both the end lines and no others of an open trilatel.al is 4 ( see lines 25 , 14 , 24 ) , .
, quadrilateral is .
3 ( see lines 19 , 12 , 25 , 14 ) , , , quinquilateral is 1 ( see lines 17 , 1 , 19 , 12 , 25 ) , that the number of lines on the surface which intersect only one line , and that , a specified end line of an open angle , is . . . .
8 only one line ( an end line ) of an open trilateral , is 4 quadrilateral , is .
1 , , quinquilateral , is , that ) number of lines on the surface which intersect none of the lines of an open angle , is . . .
trilateral , is 4 quadrilateral , is 3 quinquilateral , is S. ( An open sexilateral does not exist on the surface .
) By , of Figure we see , by inspection of the ] , 2 , 3 , 10 , that they form , and that some one of them is intersected by every other line except 15 .
By inspection of the lines 13 , 18 , 8 , 2 , 3 , they form a closed pentagon , and that some one of thenll is intersected by every other line except 11 and 16 , which do not intersect .
By inspection of the lines 2 , 3 , 10 , 11 , 9 , ] they form a closed hexagon , and some one of them is intersected by every other line except 15 , 18 , 19 , which do not intet.fiect .
GENERAL EQUATION OF A CUBIC SURFACE .
It appears , therefore , that there is but one line on the surface which does not intersect one line at least of a closed quadrilateral on the surface ; that there are two lines only , forming a non-intersecting duad , which do not intersect one line least of a closed pentagon on the surface ; and that there are three lines only , forming a non-intersecting triad , which do not intersect one line at least of a closed hexagon on the surface .
S 14 .
Ctosed .\mdash ; If the lines , taken in order a quadrilateral , it appears from what has gone before that when is given , there are 10 ways of choosing ; when are given , there are 8 ways of choosing ; and that when are given , there are 4 ways of choosing Hence , the number of orders of choosing 4 ] ines to form a quadrilateral is 27 .
10 .
S. 4 , and each quadrilateral will appear times .
The total number of closed quadrilaterals therefore is 27 .
10 .
8 .
4 4 .
2 Now we have shown that there is only one line which does not cut at ] of the sides of a closed quadrilateral .
There must , therefore , be closed quadrilaterals which each line does not cut .
There are 16lines which do not cut a given line ; therefore these 40 drilaterals are formed of 16 lines , and these 16 lines are capable of being divided into sets of four quadrilaterals in ten rent ways .
One such set of four quadrilaterals , none of the sides of which cut the given line 26 , is27 , 21 , 5 , 18 ; 2 , 22 , 13 , 14 ; 9 , 24 , 12 , 7 ; 10 , 16 , 1 , 6 .
S 15 .
Closed Pentagons.--If the lines , taken in order a closed pentagon , it appears that when is given , the number of ways of choosing is 10 ; when and are given , the number of ways of choosing is 8 ; when , and are given , the number of ways of choosing is 4 ; when , and are the number of ways of choosing is 3 .
Hence the number of orders of choosing fiye lines to form a closed pentagon is 27 .
10 .
8 .
4 .
3 , and each pentagon will appear or 10 times .
The total number of closed pentagons therefore is 27 .
8 .
4 .
Now we have shown that there are only two lines , forming a non-intersecting which do not cut one at least of the sides of a closed pentagon . .
H. M. AYLOR ON A SPECIAL FORM OF THE There must , , be closed pentagons for each duad .
There are ten lines do not cut either of the lines of a duad. .
Therefore theqe are formed of ten lines , and these ten lines form pairs of pentagons in six different ways .
the sides of which cut either of the lines One such pair of pentagons , none 26 , 27 , I8 , .5 , 14 , 2 , 12 and24 , 9 , 13 , , 6 .
16 .
.\mdash ; If the lines , taken in order form a closed hexagon , it appears that when is given the number of of choosing and is 10 .
8 .
4 , when are , the number of ways of choosing is 1 , and that when ) , and are given , the number of ways of choosing .
is 1 .
Hence the number of ordel.s of choosing six lines to form a closed heXagon is 27.10.8.4.1.1 , and each hexagon will appear times .
number of closed ] lexagons , therefore , is 9 .
10 .
Now we have shown that there are only three lines , forming a non-intersecting friad , which do not cut one at least of the sides of a closed hexagon .
There must , therefore be closed hexagon for each triad .
six lines which do not cut any of the lines of a triad .
Therefore , there is but one closed hexagon formed of the six lines which do not cut a triad .
The hexagon , none of whose sides cut any of the lines 26 , 27 , 5 is 1 , 2 , 12 , 10 , 13 , 9 .
If be the sides of a closed hexagon in order , every line on the surface which does not meet or , must meet the lines which meet the pairs Now the intersection of the planes and , is a line on the surface ; that the lines joining are identical with those joining respectively ; the three form a non-intersecting triad .
Three other lines , forming a non-intersecting triad , meet them , and they are the three lines each of which misses each side of the closed hexagon .
S 7 .
closed hexagon , fornled of the lines , we can form six anes , , such that the ab , intersect the planes , fa , of the twenty-seven lines .
Hence ] number of of throwing the equation of a cubic into the form LMN , may be found as follows : From each such form of the equation we can obtain six closed hexagons , and from each closed hexagon we can obtain one such form of equation .
GENERAL EQUATION OF A CUBIC SURFACE .
Hence , the number of such of equation number of closed S18 .
In the case of a double two , the planes , nd both tangent planes .
** The intersection of these planes has clearly four points on the ce ; it is , fore one of the twenty-seven lines .
Hence , for each line on the surface are pairs of triaDgles , of which gives double two .
But if we reckon the two figures l ) * * * which represent the same set of four lilles if they double twos , as distinct double we say the number of double twos From a double three we obtain hree double twos ; this is seen at once , for in a double , such as / we can leave out either of the pairs ; or once that we can from a double two form four double threes .
Hence the numbel of double threes number of double * This is b ) iu , ' olid G ) , b4 Mlt .
H. .
TAYLOR ON A ClAL 1 OF THE ' see that double four ** * * * we can form double threes * ** Figure we see that from a double we three double fours .
Hence the nulnbel of double fours numbel of double tbrees each double five fornu five double fours , and each double four can form double bveb .
Hence the number of double fiveH of double fours Similarly from each double six form six double fives , and each double hve we can form one double six .
the number of double sixes ber of double fives let choose triple plane , the ) through the lines ; elve other ) planes through one or other of these lines .
The remalning or hold a similalelation to first plane .
us ehoose , second ) , one of those thirty-two planes , say the plame through the lines With respect to the 1 1 1 ) anes which do not pass a line in *This obtaiued lirb by EQUATION OF CUBTC common , there are twenty-two triple tangent planes which have no line in common with the first two planes .
This result may be obtained by counting the ) do not contain any of the six lines 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 or 9 , or it calculated otherwisc . .
But among these -two planes , there are three distinct of tionship to the first pair of planes .
type with we are here concerned , is that in which the line of the third plane cuts the first line of the second and of the third planes ; the second line cuts the second lines , and consequently the third line cuts the third lines .
In this case , the first lines form a triple tangent plane , as do also second lines and the third lines .
In Figure it is easily seen that the nine lines give triple tangent planes when the numbers are read either or The only triangles which do not contain any of the lines 4 , , 5 , 9 , , 7 , 13 , 10 , 3 , are as follows:\mdash ; 16 ) ] .
If towards completing a set of triangles we select the triangle , we must take and , IDCCCXCIV . .
Tf .
llf FOTi l OF the , also nd if tc choose the triangle , , ; if we select the , that the three roups 7 17 1 L.3 10 18 the ined by ] .
any row or column is of respcct to the triangles obtained by reading ( : there is but one of ) the , which do not the same line , intersect in salnc Joints , these points 1 of lines on of triple ) ; there are , efore , thrce of the points of contact of the triple planes , and no mor LQUATION Each set ofthree points in a small square in Figure gives three 1 intersections of the sides of two triangles .
set , , lies on line .
S22 .
Each pair of triangles which do not have a common line , , 2 , 3 and , 8 , 10 , gives complete schemes for a ) of hedrons in perspective , yiz .
: 8 7 8 Ib 27 } 1 !
26 and each pair of tetraljedrons gives foul pairs of such Therefore the nunlber of of tetrahedrons the llulnber of pairs of such lt that line , which is the terscctio of ) planes 1 , , : } 8 , lies ] ) vibh the ectious of the irs ancs 7 nd 4 and10 1 ?
and t ) 7 .
There are , therefore , three distinct planes of ) .
each of the 720lines , and each pective plane passes through four of lines .
S 23 .
From a closed quadrilateral , sLlch as can , by oosing t ) four lines lvhich cut onHecntive s lateral , obtain the figure .
1F .
ON OF we coln plcte in distinct b u corner spaces , so that the , and the lmlls will give triple tangent planes as 1 .
and ves closed we obtain three distinct pairs , and , therefol .
G , three distinct pecve planes .
triple do not possess a line in common , say , can in nine interent } pair of ahedrons in perspective , of of such iple the ) .
of } ) pective , of such of triple tangent .
4 GENLRAL EQUATION A CUBIC SURFACL .
A set of lines snch they form when in columns , is obtaioable from one of the possible forms of the equation of the cubic surface , such as LMN There are 120 such sets ( S17 ) , and when one is chosen there is only one of completing the set of triangles by nilar sets of nine lines .
Tbel.efol .
G , there must be 40 different ways in which all the lines on the be arranged , such as such each row and each column one of the .
sets gives number may also be by such sets exist colltaining a definite line There are five triangles which contain .
There are , therefore , ten pairs of such triangles , or ten selections of in the set ; for each pair of there four lines which could take the of , and then the set is determined uniquely .
There are , theretore , such sets .
, ' Synth .
ubcl ] iichcn 1ibtcl O '

