112 Dr. A. Theiler .
Transmi [ Apr. 20 , dioxide and water ) .
The difficulty , however , is imaginary , and the result is possible , because ( a ) the position of equilibrium in the reversible change C02 + 3H20^HCH0 + 2Hi02 is displaced towards the right by the addition of light energy , and ( 6 ) the process is continuous so long as the products on the right-hand side are removed , as in a living plant they are .
H. Euler ( ' Zeits .
fur physiol .
Chemie , ' 1909 , vol. 59 , p. 122 ) supports Ewart 's criticisms , without , however , giving any particulars ( c/ .
foregoing paragraph ) .
He also mentions some experiments with solutions of chlorophyll , quinine sulphate , and fluorescein , which gave negative results .
This agrees with our own experience , so far , at least , as chlorophyll solutions are concerned .
Mameli and Pollacci ( ' Atti dell ' 1st .
Bot. dell ' Univ. di Pavia , ' Series II , vol. 13 ) have published a critical memoir in which , in the first place , they re-affirm the possibility of detecting formaldehyde in the living plant : this appears now to be fully confirmed by Schryver ( loc. cit.).These authors also failed to observe any evolution of oxygen in vitro when they repeated the experiment already referred to , but it is possible that , as they stated that they were unable to prepare a specimen of chlorophyll free from formaldehyde , this substance may have interfered with the action of the catalase in contact with the film of chlorophyll , in which case no oxygen would be produced .
Transmission of Amakebe by means of Rhipicephalus appendiculatus , the Brown Tick .
By Dr. A. Theiler , C.M.G. , Pretoria .
( Communicated by Colonel Sir D. Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S. Received April 20 , \#151 ; Read May 18 , 1911 .
) That the disease in calves of Uganda called Amakebe is identical with East Coast fever had to be concluded after the presence of the so-called blue bodies of Koch , or plasma bodies , had been demonstrated in the internal organs ; these bodies represent certain stages , agametes , agamonts , and gamonts , in the life cycle of Theileria parva .
Accordingly , it had to be expected that Amakebe could be transmitted by means of such ticks , which act as hosts for this parasite .
The most common tick of Uganda is the Brown Tick Rhipicephalus appendiculatus , which has been proved in South Africa to be the principal transmitter of East Coast fever .
When in Uganda in 1909 an arrangement was made between Mr. Hutchins , , the Government Veterinary Surgeon of Uganda , and myself , to place adult brown ticks , collected as nymphse from calves suffering from Amakebe , .
on susceptible calves in my laboratory in Onderstepoort , Pretoria , Transvaal these ticks were to be collected by Mr. Hutchins as opportunity occurred .
1911 .
] by means ofRhipicephalus appendiculatus .
On several occasions Mr. Hutchins forwarded me brown ticks , which he had placed in a glass tube ; in every instance they arrived alive and in good condition , having moulted in transit from the nymphal into the adult stage .
The first two lots of ticks failed to transmit the disease , the nymph\#174 ; probably having been collected off calves which had recovered from the disease , when the blood no longer contained the pathogenic parasite .
Experiments with the last lot wTere successful , as will be shown hereunder .
Experiment to note whether Brown Ticks collected as Nympho in Uganda from a Calf suffering from Amakebe will transmit the Disease to Susceptible Calves in the Transvaal .
( 1 ) Bull calf 1118 , born and reared in Onderstepoort , was infested on January 23 , 1911 , with 10 adult brown ticks , forwarded by Mr. Hutchins from Uganda and received here on January 4 , 1911 .
All 10 ticks were found attached to the calf the following day .
The calf showed almost immediately a rise of temperature , developing into a definite curve , during which the so-called marginal points ( marginale ) were noted to be present in great numbers ; this curve was typical of the disease anaplasmosis , and the blood lesions found were those of an oligocythemia ( anisocytosis , poikilocytosis , polychromasia and basophilia ) which followed as a sequel .
The temperature gradually dropped , and the calf was found dead on the 22nd day after tick infestation .
An examination of the lymphatic glands was made on the 17th day , and a negative result was registered .
Post-mortem Examination on Calf 1118.\#151 ; The condition was fair .
Kigor mortis was present .
Tympanitis was noted .
The lungs were partially collapsed and showed some atelectatic areas .
On section a slight oedema became noticeable ; in the trachea was some foam .
The bronchial lymphatic glands were swollen , the mediastinal glands were normal .
The pericardium contained some clear liquid .
The blood in the ventricles was well coagulated .
Both endocards were normal .
The liver was enlarged and had a mottled appearance due to small pale areas ; the parenchyma was soft .
The periportal lymphatic glands were enlarged .
The bile was yellow and viscid .
The spleen was enlarged , measured 30 cm .
by 10 cm .
, the pulp was softened , jam-like ; the trabeculae were indistinct .
All four stomachs were normal .
The mucosa of the jejunum was slightly thickened and oedematous , that of the caecum and colon was slate-coloured and contained a small number of disseminated parasitic nodules .
VOL. lxxxiv.\#151 ; B. i 114 Dr. A. Theiler .
Transmission [ Apr. 20 , The kidneys were pale , the capsule was easily detachable and the urine was clear .
The exterior lymphatic glands were swollen .
The microscopical examination of the blood proved the absence of any parasites .
In the lymphatic glands the so-called plasma bodies of Koch were found and described as rather small , viz. , agametes and young agamonts ( according to G-onder* ) ; the same observation was made in preparations of the spleen .
Diagnosis.\#151 ; East Coast fever .
( 2 ) Calf 1143.\#151 ; On February 14 , 1911 , this calf was infested with 10 adult brown ticks of the same lot obtained from Uganda .
On February 15 seven of these ticks were found attached .
After an incubation time of 13 days a typical fever curve ensued , which , however , never reached high records .
The animal died on the 24th day .
On the 15 th day after the tick infestation both blood and glands were examined and the result was negative .
The examination on the 17th day revealed rare agamonts in the prescapular glands , but no parasites in the blood ; on the 20th day both agamonts and gamonts were found in the lymphatic glands in a fair number , and parva was frequently met with in the red corpuscles .
Post-mortem Examination of Calf 1143.\#151 ; Rigor mortis was present .
The condition was rather poor .
All external lymphatic glands were very much swollen .
The lungs had not collapsed ; there were some patches of red hepatisation in right anterior lobe and a small area in the left lobe .
The lesions of hypersemia and oedema were pronounced .
There was a fibrinous coagulum in the trachea .
The bronchial and mediastinal lymphatic glands were enlarged and oedematous .
The heart contained coagulated blood .
Both the endocardium and the myocardium were normal .
The liver was enlarged , the margins were rounded , the colour was reddish brown , the parenchyma was rather soft .
The bile was green , thick , and viscid .
The spleen measured 30 cm .
by 9 cm .
; the .
pulp was soft and jam-like , and the trabeculae were indistinct .
The mucosa of the fourth stomach was slate-coloured ; there were a few small haemorrhagic ulcers .
The mucosa of the jejunum showed longitudinal slate-coloured streaks .
The mucosa of the ileum was slightly thickened , and dotted with punctiform haemorrhages .
The mucosa of the caecum was thickened , the blood-vessels were injected , and there were patches of hyperaemia .
The mucosa of the colon was slightly swollen and slate-coloured .
The mesenteric glands were much enlarged and * 'Annual Report of the Government Veterinary Bacteriologist , Transvaal , S.A. , ' 1909\#151 ; 10 .
by means of Bhipicephalus appendiculatus .
rather soft .
The kidneys were rather pale ; the boundary zone of the right kidney was slightly hyperaemic ; the capsule was easily detachable .
The bladder contained clear , yellow urine .
Microscopical Examination.\#151 ; Koch 's granules were found frequently in the lymphatic glands and spleen .
Diagnosis.\#151 ; East Coast fever .
The infestation of two calves with adult brown ticks collected as nymphae in Uganda from a calf suffering from acute Amakebe , was succeeded in both instances by a fatal disease , which could be diagnosed as East Coast fever from the appearance of the so-called Koch 's blue bodies or plasma granules , which represent , according to Gonder , the agametes , agamonts , and gamonts in the life cycle of The post-mortem examination corresponds with Amakebe of Uganda , and with what is known as East Coast fever .
The fact that the blood of the first calf did not show blood parasites is nothing unusual in Amakebe .
The agamonts were there , no gamonts had yet developed , accordingly no gametes of Theileria could be found .
This calf apparently died at the beginning of the disease , the animal being weakened by the preceding anaplasma inoculation .
The second calf represented in every respect a typical case of East Coast fever .
Conclusion .
Amakebe of Uganda is identical with East Coast fever of South Africa , and is transmitted by the tick Bhipicephalus appendiculatus .
This conclusion corroborates that obtained by the Royal Society Sleeping Sickness Commission of 1909 .

