]\gt ; Theory of .
271 Theory of Amphoteric Electrolytes .
Part II By JAMES WALKER , F.RS .
, University College , Dundee .
Received Octobel ' 19 , \mdash ; Read November 17 , 1904 .
previous it was shown that if HXOH is au amphoteric , it is possible to express the concentration of the various , in its aqueous solution in terms of the concentration of be unionised substance , the dissociation constants of the snbstance ting as ttcid and as base respectively , and the isation constant of vatel ' .
As the expressions obtained will be frequently used in the , I reproduce them here in their original form , when the electrolyte is preponderantly acid , and also in the which wonld be used when the substance is preponderantly basic .
tive msses of the various substances present at equilibrium apresented as below , the dissociation constants of acid , d eing denoted by , and respectively\mdash ; HXOHX l ) ( 1 ) .
( 2 ) .
( 3 ) . . . . .
( 4 ) .
; ( 1 ) . .
( 2 ) . .
( 3 ) .
( 4 ) .
I It further shown that the case of the -benzoic .
investigated by Ostwald and by Winkelblech an tion of the theory ccounted for the abnormalities exhibited by these acids , tIld in particular led to the of values of the molecular conductivity which were in satisfactory accordance with those observed .
ough recalculation of the results shows that the more strictly the theory is applied the better is the oorrespondence between theory and oxperiment .
Owing to a systematic error in the first calculatio ] ] , the values given for were , when the ratio was large , somewhat too high , the total having been taken in the tion by inadvertence equal to instead of equal to , The latter result is deduced as follows : total corresponding to the composition of the solution as made up in the ' Roy .
Soc. Proc vol. , p. , 1904 ; also ' rift fur ) ysikalische \ldquo ; , p. 82 .
obtained .
ning now to the calculation of for the -benzoic acids , .
cit. , p. 158 .
4 ) Theory of Amphoteric Electrol , ?
) lowing improved method of aseertaining the value of the constant , which is here not readily accessible to direct experiment , may be .
Previously this value was adjusted to correspond with the xperimental value of obtained at , the grealest dilution nvestigated , for in the cases mder consideration the constants and approximated most closely at this degree of dilution .
This dvantage , however , is more than counterbalanced by the drawback here the experimental errors due to conductivity of the water , )xidation at the electrodes , etc. , are at a maximum .
In the recalcula , therefore , the of the value was made from a onsideration of the most ated instead of the most dilute olutions in order that the effect of these experimental errors might , far as possible , be eliminated .
This readjustment has in every case :mproved the concordance between the experimental and theoretical values of the conductivity , as a comparison of the subjoined tables with those previously given ( p1 ) .
164-5 ) show .
bellzoic Acid .
-benzoic Acid .
Even in the case of the meta-acid , where the experimental error due to oxidation is greatest , the agreement is remarkably close .
Where the ionised proportion is great , i.e. , where is no longe1 approximately equal to , the evaluation of the concentrations of various components in the solution is troublesome .
In order that any case likely to occur , an idea of the magnitude of may obtained , I append table which gives values of , i.e. , of unionised proportion of the electrolyte , under a considerable number ol different conditions .
It will be noted that the preceding table only gives for the acid constant .
From the table it is not , however , diffic.ult to find for other values of .
If , for example , it is desired to find for a given value of , we may make use of the following relation , being used to denote the ratio .
Now , if we consider a11other amphoteric electrolyte with , but the same , we have , of Arnphoteric Electrolytes . .
275 since and identical in both equations , we taln by division .
I If we are dealing with an electrolyte of markedly toid ch$rt{ctel , we , in the expression for , neglect in comparison with and so btain Finally , therefore , we have .
iven then the lues of and ?
for o1le , we sily the of ( or of r ) for another if and remain altered .
One is ally fronted , however , with the converse proI ) of determining for a given value of , but the table utilised of the following considerations .
in , we my writc or , multiplying both sides by and -arranging , Substituting the valne of in terms of and the constants , we obtain ' If we now denote the product by -arrauge , ) owers of , we tain as result * Compare , p. 156 .
276 .
J. Walker .
[ Oct. Finally , if we denote the reciprocal of by , and divide throughout by , we have The coefficients of are here homogeneous functions of , and of degree zero , that is , we do not by altering , and in the same ratio effect any change in value of .
In other words , if we increase the constant ' -fold , and simultaneously diminish and ( or in the same proportion , the unionised proportion remains unaltered .
The following is all example of the employment of the preceding table in conjunction with this result .
Suppose it is desired to know th6 value of for .
The table gives the values for .
We must therefore , in oonsulting the table , increase and in the same ratio as that in which is diminished , that is , we must find the value in the table for and .
The number sought is , whence The conclusion that the unionised proportion is unaffected by a simul tnneous change of , and in the same ratio is of importance in the discussion of the ionisation of a series of amphoteric electrolytes in which the product is constant .
Ostwald* ascertained Ihat the influence substituent on the dissociation constants of simple acids is of such a character that the constant of each acid is inoreased or diminished for a given ) stitution iu a ratio , which , although not constant different acids , is usually of the same order in a series of simila1 substances .
The same rule no doubt holds good for bases , although in this case accurate data arc wanting .
At all events we know that when chlorine is substituted for hydrogen in a simple acid , the dissociation constant of the acid is greatly increased , and we also know that when the same ution is made in a simple base , the strength of the base is greatly diminished .
Suppose now that the substitution lakes place in an amphoteric electrolyte .
We might expect the primary effect to be a considerable in the value of and a corresponding dimi1ntion in the value of .
This primary effect would , however , in cases be complicated by stereo-chemical influences , and possibly by the secondary influe11oe which the change in the strength of the acid group might exert the strength of the ) asic gronp , and conversely .
Winkelblech found in opposition to this , that the substitution of methyl for hydrogen in glycine diminished the acidic and basic eonstants simultalleously , and the same is true of the effect of isomerism in the amino-benzoic .
In these examples it may be that primary effect is masked the superinlposed secondary effects , for in the analogous case of the continued methylation of the amino-benzo acids , the acid parent substances are finally converted into * fur physikal .
Chem vol. 3 , ( 1889 ) .
ThAmphoteric Electrolytes .
of pronouncedly .
The detailed investigation of these methyl del.ivatives is at present proceeding in my laboratory .
Turning now to the theoretioal discussion of the simple case in which , the product remains constant in a series of amphoteric acids , we find that the dilution at which a given ionisation occurs , ) ecomes greater as the constants approximate , or , in otherwords , that at a givell dilution the unionised proportion ?
increases as approaches in value .
From the table on p. 274 it ) seen the influence of dilution on the proportion unionised is comparatively small at ordin ary dilutions when the value of considerable .
this it follows that in the region considered a ten-fold increase in with a corresponiling dimiuution of may have no appreciable effect on the product at the same , although from equation ( 4 ) the proportion of compared with will be increased .
Here then we have with a constant unionised proportion , considerable variation in the relative proportions of the ions present , uot only in the case of a given acid at different dilutions , but at the same dilution in a series of acids with constants , if the oduct of the acid and basic constants remains invariable .
This comparative constancy of ; often greatly simplffies evaluation in a given case .
Suppose that in the series of amphoteric substances with constam we consider that one for which .
This substance will be absolutely neutral , and its ionisation , and herefore its , will be the same at all dilutions compare previous .
Here the calculation of is easy , since gives the ionised quantity , and Equation ( 4 ) then becomes and since Now at , so that for this temperature To exemplify this mode of calculalion we may take the case considered on p. 276 .
We wish to know the value of , for , and .
Here A substance with the same product but with would have Applying formula ( 5 ) we obtain , a very close approximation to the true value The method of oalculation here indicated becomes applicable only at great dilutions and in cases where the two constants are very widely apart .
In any case it affords a useful first approximation to the value of , and gives the limit to which may in maximo at increasing concentrations .
278 Prof. J. Walker .
If , in the table on p. 274 we interchange and , the values of remain unaltered .
We are now , therefore , in a position to consider the whole series of amphoterio electrolytes with a constant product , beginning with a practically simple acid ( i.e. , with a substance whose is of small dimensions compared with and ending with practically simple base ( i.e. , with a substance whose is small com. parerl with K ) .
As ishes and increases , the total ionisation falls off rapidly at first , thereafter more slowly until through a comparatively large range it is constant at the minimum value which is actually reached when .
At this point we are dealing with an absolutely ) staIlce .
As still further diminishu and correspondingly increases , the ionisation begins to increase slowly at first , and the lbstances considered become more and more basic in character .
Finally the ionisatio1l increases rapidly , and we deal at last with what is praotically a simple base .
In applying the preeeding resuIts it is essential to bear in mind that they have been obtained on the assumption that may negleoted in comparison with / iu dealing an amphoteric acid , and with in dealing with an amphoteric ) .
Should , therefore , the preponderant constant or the total conc.entration be very due allowance must be made for this neglect .
Since the ication of my previous paper , Mr. John Johnston , , has made in my boratory some experiments on the conductivity of asparagine and of cacodylic , two well-marked amphoteric electrolytes of charactel difierent from the amino-benzoic aoids already investigated .
paragine is of special , inasmuch as both acidic and basic constants have been determined Winkelblech from hydrolysis experiments on the two types of salts to which it gives rise .
The values found by him and .
Calculating from these lues and adopting and , in acc.ordance with the method previously described , we obtain as the ntolecular conductivity at the numbel ' .
The value tained directly ) Walden was deternined the luolecular conductivity , and found some 40 per cent. smallel than those of Walden , although he still considers them too great .
The of the disorepancy is the very small value of the conductivity of agine , any conducting impurity either in the substance itself the solvent water having a very great relative effect .
At my request Mr. Johnston carefully purified a specimen of by repeated recrystallisation from water until the conductivity showed no further diminution on repetilion of process .
He ascertained that with a specimen which might ' Zeitschrift fur physikal .
Chem vol. 8 , p. 483 , 1891 .
, vol. 36 , p. 563 , 1901 .
Theor'y of ElectrolytjS .
279 pure in the ordinary aIlalytical sense no less than four recrystallisations were requlred to reduce the conductivity to a value unaffected ) rther recrystallisation .
The solvent water employed the last crystallisations and in the determination of the conductivity was purified in the manner described Walker and Cormack .
The constant n1olecular conductivity of asparagine found with this water at ) was .
This experi : mental number is still omewhat too great owing to the of removing all conducting from the water , the error dne to this cause being probably of the dimensions of one-tenth of the total conductivity .
In view of the experimental error , then , the agreement between the lues calculated and foumd is :as close as be expected .
The results in the case of codylic acid have been published ) Mr. Johnston elsewhere , and are in with the theory , which has thus })eell tested by conductivity and drolytic experiments in a range of from to , and of from 32 to 1100 .
An interesting theoretical point arises in col1lection with codylic acid , the ] of which is generally written ) AsO .
OH .
This formula does not come under the gener H.X.OH , which is applicable to the amino-acids , inasmuch as the only hydrogen atom it contains is that of the hydroxyl group .
The distinc- tion between these two classes of amphoteric electrolytes has been pointed out by vald .
From the standpoint of the theory just put forward , however , it is unnecessary to consider it , for long as the unionised substance is not subject to molecular association , the theory is applicable modification to either class .
The freezing-point determinations of Zawidzki sho that this condition is fulfilled for cacodylic acid .
With regard to the fi.eezing-point depressiotl and correlated phenomena exhibited by non-associating amphoteric electrolytes , the following points be noted .
Since the oduction of and XOH-from H.X.OH in the first class , or of from Y.OH in the second class , involves no change in the total number of molecules , this type of dissociation is not co1lnected with any alteration in the freezing point of the solution .
The production of and on the other hand increases the total ) of molecules , and in consequence the freezing-point depression .
1Ve say briefly , then , that the acidic or basic ionisation of an amphoteric electrolyte increases the freezing-point depression or any derived * ' Journ. Chem. So vol. 77 , p. 8 , 1900 .
Compnre Walker and Cormack , , p. 18 .
'Berichte Deut .
chem .
Ges vol. 37 , p. 3625 , 1904 .
S 'Zeitschrift ' vol. 6 , p. 36 , 1899 .
is considerable .
As a means of determining the extent to which acidii or basic ionisation , as distinguished from saline ionisation , has taken place , measurements of electromotive force with hydrogen may , in some instances , be applied with success .
Experimsnts in this direction are at present in Electrical Conductivity and other of Sodium Hydroxide in Aqueous Solution , as elucidating the Mechanism of Conduction By WILLIAM ROBERT BOUSFIELD , M.A. , K.C. , M.P. , and THOMAS MARTIN LowRY , D.Sc .
, Lecturer in Physical Chemistry and Crystallography at the Central Technical .
Communicated by Professor H. MSTRONG , F. .
Received June 24 , \mdash ; Read November 17 , 1904 .
( Abstract .
) The iginal object of the research was to investigate the deoay , as the temperature rises , in the " " ising \ldquo ; properties of water ; which manifest , especially in the case of the LQlkalies , in the inflected character of the curves expressing the relation betwee1l temperature and conductivity in aqusous solutions.* It was found , however , that the available data for the physical properties generally of the alkalies were very few ; the inquiry was , therefore , extended so as to include the measurement of the density and conductivity of solutions of sodium hydroxide at C. , as well as of the tempsrature co-efficients of conductivity and density .
The great viscosity of the more concentrated solutions being very noticeable , measurements of viscosity wers also made , in order to correlate this property with the low conductivity of these solutions .
The principal results of the investigation are as follows:\mdash ; ( 1 ) In the most dilute solutions , in which ' ionisation " " is nearly complete , the curves expressing the relation between molecular conductivity and temperature are not inflected between and C. They resemble the curves representing the changes in viscosity with temperature in dilute aqueous solutions .
Concentrated solutions also give curves that are not inflected .
In these solutions a very rapid increase of conductivity takes place as the lempsrature is raised : the conductivity of a 50-per-cent .
soIution *Compare ' Rov .
Soc. Proc 1902 , vol. 71 , pp. 42\mdash ; 54 .

