'Jerrestrial Magnetism in the Horizontal Plane .
255 V. " Results deduced from the Measures of Terrestrial Magnetic Force in the Horizontal Plane , at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , from 1841 to 1876 .
By Sir G. B. Airy , K.C.B. , F.R.S. , late Astronomer Royal .
Received June 24 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) In offering to the Royal Society some results deduced from the systems of magnetic observation and magnetic self-registration established several years since at the Royal Observatory , Greenwich , during a portion of the time in which I presided over that institution , I think it desirable to premise a short statement on the origin of the Magnetic Department of the Royal Observatory , and on the successive steps in its constitution .
It appears to have been recognised many years ago , that magnetic determinations would form a proper part of the business of the Royal Observatory .
When I commenced residence at the Royal Observatory , at the end of 1835 , I found in the garden a small wooden building , evidently intended for the examination of compasses , perhaps of the size of those used in the Royal Navy .
But the locality was inconvenient , and the structure was totally unfit for any delicate magnetic purpose ; for instance , the balance-weights of the sliding windows were of iron .
For some preliminary experiments a small observatory was borrowed from Captain Fitzroy , but no real progress was made in magnetism .
In the beginning of 1836 , a scheme for the erection of a Magnetical Observatory was brought before the Board of Visitors .
The Board approved the plan , and recommended it favourably to the Admiralty .
The Government Department superintending the Park gave their consent to an extension of the grounds of the Observatory , and the ground was enclosed in 1837 .
The Magnetic Observatory was built , from my plans , in the spring of 1838 .
Since that time , no alteration has been made in the building , except in 1864 , when the ground below the east , west , and south arms , was excavated , in order to obtain positions for the three fundamental instruments in which the severity of the temperature-changes would be much diminished .
Small accidental interruptions of observations occurred in 1847 , January , and 1861 , July .
The interest taken in the subject of terrestrial magnetism in the first half of this century was occasioned principally by the enterprise of Gauss and other German philosophers .
Magnets were , therefore , established at the Royal Observatory , furnished with apparatus adapted to eye observations corresponding to those of Gauss , and some 256 Sir G. B. Airy .
Results from Measures of [ Nov. 26 , observations were made in concert with the Germans .
The observations to the end of 1847 with these instruments were made entirely by eye ; the instruments ( magnets 2 feet in length ) being furnished with small plane reflectors , to which telescopes were directed , and by which fixed marks were observed .
The observations were made at every two hours , day and night ; proper precautions were taken for assurance of the general accuracy of the times of observation ; and I do not doubt that the results interpreted from these observations are each as good as those derived from the succeeding system ; though the intervals of two hours were longer than I could wish .
But the labour was great , and ( as measured by the interruption of assistants ' work ) was expensive .
The idea of self-registration by photography of the movements of the intruments ( an idea , little entertained before that time ) then suggested itself ; and , at the Cambridge Meeting of the British Association in 1845 , it was proposed for consideration of the Council of that body , that the Government should be requested to promote , by offer of a pecuniary reward , the construction of a photographic self-registering instrument .
This proposal was adopted by the Council ; letters were addressed by Sir John Herschel , President of the Association , to Her Majesty 's Treasury , and by myself to the Admiralty ; and , finally , the assistance of Dr. Charles Brooke was secured , for forming an efficient apparatus , and making the necessary chemical arrangements adapted to our wants .
I do not propose here to describe the photographic recording apparatus .
Allusions to the construction will be found in the Introductions to the Greenwich Observations for successive years , and especially , and in great detail , in the introduction to the volume for 1847 .
The only alteration that was made in it for several years is the following .
Mr. Brooke had conceived that advantage would be gained by making the recording barrel to revolve in twelve hours .
But this caused a doubling of the curves traced on the photographic paper which is wrapped upon the barrel ; and the inconvenience produced by this doubling was soon found to be so great that I thought it necessary to alter the clock-work so as to produce a revolution of the barrel in twenty-four hours .
The records of the change of western declination from the north , and of the change of horizontal force , are made on the same barrel ; and by alterations , first suggested by myself about 1881 , and carried out by the present Astronomer Royal ( then Chief Assistant ) , the two curves are now so traced that the simultaneous records of the two instruments at all times are in close juxtaposition .
While the observations were made by eye , at every two hours , the means of the two-hourly readings were adopted as base for the day , and the excess of each two-hourly reading above the mean was adopted 1885 .
] Terrestrial Magnetic Force in the Horizontal Plane .
257 as " magnetic inequality " of that ordinate for that hour ; producing twelve measures of " inequality " for each day .
When the photo-gi-aphic system was introduced , the elevation of a pencil curve drawn by eye so as to smooth down the irregularities of the photographic trace above a photographic base was measured for every hour , producing twenty-four measures of " inequality .
" In the instances of excessive and rapid disturbances of the magnets during magnetic storms , no measures of ordinates were taken for the present purposes .
Thus the daily measures at each hour or two houi'S were obtained .
The next step was to collect for each month all the daily measures on corresponding hours through each month , and to take their mean .
These are the measures for the hours which are actually treated in the present memoir .
By combining ( for each month ) the inequality of magnetic horizontal force at every two hours or each hour , as abscissa , with the inequality of magnetic declination ( on the same scale of measure ) at the same two hours or hour , as ordinate , points were defined in every monthly curve representing completely the mean diurnal changes of magnetism for each month .
On the recommendation of the Board of Visitors of the Royal Observatory , reduced photographic copies of these curves were prepared by the Astronomer Royal for publication with the volume of Greenwich Observations for 1884 .
The number , and the character , of the curves produced uninterruptedly on this plan , and the circumstance that they are intended for publication in the Greenwich Observations , appear to render them unfit for dissemination in the Royal Society 's Transactions .
I have , therefore , decided on the following course .
With the permission of the Astronomer Royal , I have adopted the three years 1863 , 1864 , 1865 , for partial exhibition of results .
( Any other years would have answered equally well , for general exhibition .
) For each of these years I have attached to this paper the curves for the months January , April , July , October , which suffice for showing generally the characteristic changes of magnetism for the several months .
But some general account may be given , for which this is perhaps a suitable place .
The form of the curves , and the position of the points on them corresponding to hours of solar time , leave no doubt that the diurnal inequality is due mainly\#151 ; and , as far as I can judge , entirely\#151 ; to the radiant heat of the sun ; and , it would seem , not to the sun 's heat on the earth generally , but to its heat on parts of the earth not very distant from the magnets .
In the hot months of the year , the curve , though far from circular , surrounds the central point in a form which , as viewed from that central point , never crosses itself ; and is , roughly speaking , usually symmetrical with regard to E. and W. S 2 258 Terrestrial Magnetism in the Horizontal Plane .
[ Nov. 26 , But in the cold months , the space included in the curve is much smaller in many cases , probably not more than one-sixth of what it is in the summer months ; and the curve often crosses itself in the most bizarre fashion with irregular loops stretching out , three crossings in one curve occurring very frequently .
In the summer months there is a certain degree of symmetry ; but here is , constantly , a preponderance on the west side , which leads me to imagine that the magnetic effect of the radiant heat upon the sea is considerably greater than the effect on the land .
To obtain some numerical basis for a report , which though exceedingly imperfect may convey some ideas on this wonderful subject , I have adopted the following course .
I have confined myself to the months of June and July as probably the two hottest , and the months of December and January as probably the two coldest .
For each of the curves applying to these months , I have laid down a system of rectangular co-ordinates , corresponding to the Greenwich meridian and to the line at right angles to the meridian ( or the geographical E. and W. ) .
The extreme north ordinate and the extreme south ordinate are measured , and their sum is taken , and interpreted by a scale of measure formed in accordance with the theory of the intruments ; and this interpreted sum forms the " Range of Meridian Force " in terms of the whole Meridian Force .
In the same manner , the " Range of Transversal Force " is measured .
As the time of each of the two-hourly or hourly records is marked on the curve , there is no difficulty in fixing approximately on the solar times corresponding to the extreme IS " .
and S. values , and the extreme E. and W. values , mentioned above .
These are all the elements of the magnetic record which are described in the subjoined table .
The changes in the monthly records are very remarkable .
They leave no doubt in my mind that the diurnal magnetic changes are produced by the sun .
But I cannot account for every change that takes place in the course of a day ; nor can I undertake to say whether we can found , on these , the theory that general terrestrial magnetism is a part of solar radiation , perhaps sometimes acting through or sometimes impeded by the masses of land and sea on which that radiation acts .
Still I think that a considerable step is made by the establishment of a connexion between terrestrial magnetism ( on one hand ) , and the radiation , or , at least , the visibility of the sun ( on the other hand ) .

