Lepidoptera.\#151 ; By Arthur Gardiner , F.L.S. , Twenty-one species of Lepidoptera were obtained by Mr. George Gulliver ; of these , seven are Bkopalocera and fourteen Heterocera ; of the latter , four are new and probably endemic forms .
Twelve of the species , including the whole of the Butterflies , have been previously known from Mauritius and Bourbon , and eight of them , including six of the Butterflies , from Madagascar .
All the genera , with the exception of Laverna , and eight of the species , have been recorded from India or Ceylon .
The species here enumerated evidently form but a very small part of the Lepi-dopterous fauna of Bodriguez : in all probability many of the species which occur at Mauritius and Bourbon will be found to exist there also , of these and Atella*columbina among the Bhopalocera , and Daphnis nerii , Frotoparce convolvuli , Deiopeia pul , Flusia chalcitis , and Heliothis armigera , with several other wide-ranging species , amongst the Heterocera , may be confidently looked for .
It is interesting to find Acherontia atropos in Bodriguez ; the Mascarene Islands probably form the extreme limit of this species , which ( with Frotoparce ) seems to be common throughout Europe and Africa , but does not occur in Asia , the Indian representatives of A. atropos being all perfectly distinct .
Name of Species found in Rodriguez .
Hitherto found in Rodriguez only .
Previously obtained elsewhere .
Mauritius and Bourbon .
Madagas- car .
Other Localities .
Danais chrysippus , Linnc X X Africa , Asia , S. Europe .
Melanitis ismene var .
, Cramer X X Africa , Asia .
Junonia rhadama , Boisduval X X Diadema misippus , Linnceus X X Africa , Asia .
Lampides telicanus , Ilerbst X X Africa , S. Europe .
Hesperia forestan , Cramer X X Natal , E. Africa , Sierra Leon , .
India .
Pamphila borbonica , Boisduval X Acherontia atropos , Linnceus X Europe and Africa .
Argina cribraria , Clerk - X India , China , Malaysia .
Laphygma cycloides , S. Africa .
Prodenia littoralis , * Boisduval X X India , Ceylon .
Caradrina expolita , Butler X Cosmophila xanthindyma , Boisduval X X Asia , ?
Australia .
Diomea bryophiloides , Butler X Homoptera turbida , Butler X Achsea catilla , Guenee - Senegal , Abyssinia .
Ophiusa properans , Walker S. Africa , Natal , W. Africa .
Trigonodes acutata , Guenee X S. Africa , Natal , Senegal , Sierra Leon .
Remigia conveniens , Walker Natal , Congo , Sierra Leon .
Asopia vulgalis , Guenee Africa , Ceylon , West Indies .
Laverna plumipes , Butler X * Identical with P. testaceoides , Guenee , Rhopalocera .
Danais L. Five specimens , of both sexes , were collected .
Melanitis ismene Cramer .
Two specimens .
Junonia Boisd .
Fifteen examples of both sexes .
Diadema , L. Only one male .
One female .
One male .
One male .
Lampides telicanu , Herbst .
Hesperia forest an , Cramer .
Pamphila borbonica , Boisd .
Heterocera .
Acherontia atropos , L. Six examples of both sexes .
Argina cribraria , Clerk .
Five specimens , one of which is the variety figured by Cramer ( pi .
208 , fig. C ) , and another is the P. astrea of Drury .
Laphygma cycloides , Guenee .
Three males .
JProdenia littoralis , Boisd .
One male .
Caradrina Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 407 ( 1876 ) .
Primaries glossy brown , reniform spot indistinct , a brown streak below it ; a waved dark brown transverse line towards the base ; a transverse postmedian line , arched , with its lower extremity straight , followed by a series of black points ; an irregular dusky discal band , zigzag externally ; a marginal series of black dots ; the margin indicated by a clay-coloured line ; fringe shining brown , darker at base : secondaries shining pale brown , with deeper-coloured outer border ; marginal characters and fringe as in primaries ; body pale olive-brown , abdomen greyish ; LEPIDOPTERA.\#151 ; ARTHUR GARDINER BUTLER .
palpi black , with whity-brown tips : wings below shining brownish , a dusky spot on the discocellulars ; an oblique black costal litura in primaries , followed by a continuous discal series of black dots upon the nervures ; an ochraceous marginal line and a marginal series of black dots ; secondaries paler than primaries : body shining whitish .
Expanse of wings 1 inch .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) Allied to C. conformis .
Cosmophila xanthindyma , Boisd .
Two specimens .
Diomea bryophiloides .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 408 ( 1876 ) .
Primaries rounded at apex , smoky brown ; external area darker , crossed by a blackish tapering band bounded externally by whitish dots ; several costal spots of the same colour : secondaries pale brown ; margin , veins , and a spot on the discocellulars dusky : body smoky brown , abdomen pale ; palpi whitish above , blackish below ; primaries below paler than above , markings indistinct , a marginal series of black dots ; secondaries sordid white ; costal area irrorated with brown ; basal area ochraceous ; a black discocellular spot ; two irregular discal brown lines ; outer border grey ; a marginal series of black dots ; legs spotted with ochraceous ; coxse tufted : body below whitish varied with brown , sides of pectus ochraceous .
Expanse of wings 11 lines .
( Coll , by Gulliver .
) One example .
Homo ] } ter a turbida .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 408 ( 1876 ) .
Primaries cinereous , crossed by undulating brown lines ; a blackish line at the base , followed by a dark oblique brown band , the outer edge of which is straight , and bounded towards costa by a white streak ; reniform spot ill-defined , confounded with a brown costal patch crossed by pale lines ; the latter bounded externally by an abbreviated narrow white streak ; postmedian line slender , black , sinuated at its upper end , regularly undulated from the first median to the inner margin ; outer border broadly grey ; a submarginal black line , a marginal series of yellowish spots ; margin indicated by a reddish brown line ; fringe brown , with basal ochraceous line : secondaries pale buff , internal area ( excepting the abdominal region ) and the outer border cinereous , crossed by parallel undulated brown bands ; two parallel subanal black lines , between which is a brown line ; marginal characters as in primaries : head , palpi , and collar pale reddish brown ; tegulae and thorax greyish brown ; abdomen pale brown , three dorsal greyish tufts ; two subanal dusky bands , the inner one broad ; anal tuft tipped with brown : wings and body below pale buff , markings only indicated on the apical half of primaries and costa of secondaries , the latter covered with hair ; an apical marginal sinuated black line .
Expanse of wings 1 inch 10 lines .
( Ooll .
by Gulliver .
) Allied to , but quite distinct from , H.mnso of Guenee .
Achcea catilla , Guende .
Two specimens , rather more strongly marked than Abyssinian examples ( which in all probability would agree with the type from Senegal ) , but not sufficiently distinct to warrant their separation .
Ophiusa proper ans , Walker .
One example obtained .
Eive specimens .
Trigonodes aouta , Guenee .
Memigia conveniens , Walker .
One specimen .
One specimen .
Asopia vulgalis , Guenee .
Laverna plumipes .
Ann. \amp ; Mag. Not .
Hist. , s. 4 , vol. xvii .
, p. 409 ( 1876 ) .
Primaries shining brown , irrorated with black ; a subapical black spot ; fringe grey : secondaries sericeous pale brown , the apical area darker ; fringe pale brown : head and thorax olive-brown , abdomen pale brown : wings below shining pale brown : body and legs below shining whitish ; tibiae of second pair of legs with a long terminal pencil of hair-scales between the spines ; tibiae of hind pair densely clothed with long projecting hairs .
Expanse of wings 10 lines .
( Ooll .
by Gulliver .
)

