195 On the Nature of the Ionisation of a Molecule by an a-Particle .
By R , D. Kleeman , D.Sc , , B.A. , formerly Research Student of Emmanuel College , Cambridge , Mackinnon Student of the Royal Society .
( Communicated by Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson , F.R.S. Received November 4 , \#151 ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) No experiments have hitherto been made to determine the source of the energy which appears when ionisation takes place .
The energy involved may be accounted for in two ways ( 1 ) , it may be derived from the potential energy of the atom which is set free by a " trigger " action of the ionising agent , or ( 2 ) , it may be energy directly absorbed from the ionising agent which is transformed into the energy of the ionised molecule . ?
If the energy of the ionising agent is kinetic energy , which is the case with the a-particle , an experiment can be made to decide whether any of the energy of ionisation can be accounted for on the second hypothesis .
If an a-particle is losing energy during its motion , its loss of momentum must be equal to the gain of momentum of the electron emitted from a molecule which is being ionised .
Thus the electrons ejected from molecules by a-particles should have on the whole a motion in the same direction as the a-particles .
These considerations led the writer to undertake some experiments on the direction of motion of electrons when ionisation is produced by a-particles .
If a-particles are shot through a very thin sheet of metal , the number emerging is equal to the number falling on it .
Then the same amount of ionisation will take place at the front as at the back surface .
If the electrons ejected from the molecules by the a-particles have on the whole a momentum whose direction is that of the a-particles , then more electrons will be emitted from the back surface than from the front surface .
If all the electrons are emitted in the direction of the a-particles , the radiation from the front surface consists of electrons that have been returned or scattered by the material .
In the absence of a gas the effect is so small that it could only be measured with great difficulty ; in the presence of a gas the ionisation in the gas is great enough to mask the effect .
The experiments of Prof. Rutherford on the counting of a-particles suggested a method of magnifying the surface effect .
Prof. Rutherford showed that by putting a strong electric field across the path of an a-particle each ion created by an a-particle produced many others by collision , so that the effect of a single a-particle became quite measurable .
A similar method was devised in which the ionisation produced by secondary corpuscular * 0 2 Dr. R. D. Kleeman .
Nature of the [ Nov. 4 , To \#163 ; /ectro/ nefer radiation was magnified to such an extent that the distribution of these radiations could be investigated with some ease , notwithstanding the ionisation of the gas by the a-particles .
The arrangement used is shown diagrammatically in fig. 1 .
The chamber is a brass cylinder 17 cm .
high and 125 cm .
in diameter .
The electrode a is a disc of aluminium 9 cm .
in diameter and about 2 mm. thick .
It is connected to the electrometer by means of the rod / which is insulated by ebonite , and is protected by an earthed guard ring g from the chamber which is sometimes raised to a high potential .
Opposite to the electrode a , and at a distance of 0*5 cm .
, is a cylinder with a flange , the cylinder being 4 cm .
in diameter and 4*5 cm .
high .
A thin aluminium leaf is pasted over the top of the cylinder and a plate of copper with a film of polonium on it closes the lower end .
The cylinder is connected electrically k\gt ; the chamber .
The thickness of the aluminium leaf is such that it decreases the range of the a-rays .
to the same extent as a layer of air at atmospheric pressure , 0*7 cm .
in thickness .
The range of the a-particles from polonium in air at ordinary pressures is 3*8 cm .
If the pressure of the air is reduced to 1 cm .
the range becomes about 3 metres .
When such a pressure of air is employed in the apparatus the velocity of the a-particle is practically the same when it strikes the aluminium plate a , as when it emerges from the aluminium leaf .
We are therefore justified in comparing the number of electrons emitted from the aluminium plate and from the aluminium leaf to study the relative number of the electrons moving in the same direction as the a-particles , and those in the reverse direction .
If more electrons are emitted by the leaf than by the plate to the space intervening , then we may conclude that the electrons are emitted in the direction of propagations of the a-particles .
Consequently if the leaks are measured with successively increasing potentials , and if this is done for the potential fall in both directions , then two different curves will be obtained .
When the chamber , and consequently the aluminium leaf , is negative , more \lt ; \/ / / c N '\ / fcV/ d N'\ 1909 .
] Ionisation of a Molecule by an a-P article .
197 ionisation by collision of the electrons emerging from the leaf will occur than when the potential difference is reversed ; for in the former case the ionisation is due to the electrons emitted from the leaf and the gas , while in the latter case it is due to the electrons from the plate and the gas .
The difference should become more marked as the potentials are increased .
The effect of the corpuscular radiation from the gas molecules requires consideration .
Let us assume that an electron is emitted from a molecule in the same direction as that of the motion of the a-particle .
If the field is in this direction too , then the velocity of the electron is increased .
If the field is in the opposite direction the electron will move against the field for a certain distance and then retrace its path , so that when it has reached the place from wdiich it started , it will have the same velocity as it had to begin with .
It is , therefore , in the same condition as the electron in the first case , and its final velocity will be the same .
No dissymmetry in the ionisation with fields in opposite directions is to be expected as far as the corpuscular radiation from the gas is concerned , provided that the electrons do not collide with any molecules within the distance required to reverse their direction when the field happens to be opposed to the direction of emission .
The effect of such collisions would be that the electron which is initially ejected against the field would return to the position from which it started with a reduced velocity .
Under these circumstances , the electron which is emitted in the direction of the field starts off towards the positive electrode writh a greater velocity at the commencement of its journey than that of the electron emitted against the field .
Hence , under similar conditions of potential we should expect more ions to be formed by collision in the first case than in the second .
A bigger leak would occur when the chamber is negative with respect to a than when it is positive .
The dissymmetry , if it exists , in the ionisation by the electrons from the gas would , therefore , be of the same kind as that due to the electrons from the metal surfaces .
Table I was obtained by measuring the leaks in both directions with increasing potential differences in hydrogen at a pressure of 0*8 mm. of mercury .
The ratios of the leaks in opposite directions are plotted against the potential differences in fig. 2 .
A considerable amount of preliminary experimenting was done to find out the best conditions .
It is easily seen that when the field is such as to drive the electrons in the same direction as the a-particles are travelling , the leak is greater and the difference increases as more potential is applied .
It appears therefore that more electrons are emitted in the direction in which the ionising a-particles are travelling , or in other words , the resultant momentum of the electrons is in the same direction as that of the a-particles .
Dr. R. D. Kleeman .
Nature of the [ Nov. 4 , 3* t During the course of the experiments the surfaces of the electrodes were often examined carefully for the presence of fibres or points which would cause a dissymmetry in the leaks when the conditions were favourable to the production of a brush discharge .
A brush discharge takes place more readily from a negatively electrified point than from one positively electrified .
It might be suggested that the effect is due to a diffusion of ions through the tiny holes which are usually present in very thin aluminium leaf .
Negative ions diffuse more quickly than positive ions , and to this might be attributed the dissymmetry in the leak .
This was investigated in the following manner : A wire was introduced into the cylinder b 200 300 400 44C 480 Difference of potential in volts between plates Fig. 2 .
through the apertures e and d. Experiments were carried out as before with the wire at a potential of +200 volts , and at \#151 ; 200 volts with respect to the chamber .
In the former case all the negative ions produced inside b would be drawn into the wire ; in the latter case all the positive ions would be drawn into it .
If the effect is to be explained as suggested , then the dissymmetry in the leaks would be greatly altered in these control experiments .
However , the same curves as before were obtained showing that the dissymmetry in the leaks was not due to any diffusion of ions through the leaf .
There is a considerable field close to the surface of the rod / owing to its small radius .
The leaks obtained might be due to an unknown extent to ionisation by collision of the natural ions present near to the rod .
This possible effect was avoided in one series of experiments by surrounding / with an earthed brass tube 2 cm .
in diameter .
This modification produced no alteration in the leaks .
Thus the dissymmetry in the leaks must be located in the a-particle ionisation in the space between the aluminium leaf and the plate .
It has been pointed out above that probably only a small fraction of the dissymmetry in the leaks is due to the corpuscular radiation from the gas .
The contributions to the dissymmetry by the gas and by the metal surfaces can be estimated in the following manner .
The corpuscular radiation from the electrodes is independent of the pressure of the gas or its kind , while 1909 .
] Ionisation of a Molecule by an a-P article .
that from the gas varies with the pressure and with the density of the gas .
Now if the above assumption be true , the dissymmetry ought to decrease with increase of pressure , and also it ought to be less with a heavy gas than a light one .
Table II shows the dissymmetry in the leaks when the chamber contains air at 1 cm .
pressure .
It will be seen that when the ionisation by collision becomes very marked ( when the potential gets up to 660 volts ) the dissymmetry is quite small in comparison with that obtained in Table I. Thus the dissymmetry seems to depend principally upon the difference in the corpuscular radiations from the metal surfaces .
These experiments support the view that all or part of the momentum of the electrons emitted when ionisation by a-particles takes place is derived from that of the a-particles .
My thanks are due to Prof. Sir J. J. Thomson for his interest and advice during this research .
Table I. Difference of Leaks obtained with Leaks obtained with potential between the lower plate the lower plate the plates .
positive .
negative .
200 10 15 300 15 18 400 48 61 440 81 105 460 181 211 480 * 308 672 490 928 1592 Table II .
Difference of Leaks obtained with Leaks obtained with potential between the lower plate the lower plate the plates .
positive .
negative .
200 27 20 640 430 460 660 755 825 %

