]\gt ; Mr. J. Pcrry on the [ June 10 , expresses the temperature at time , if when the temperature is expressed by Taking , for instance , the copper globe of 4 centimetres diameter , we have ; ( 3 ) and we see that in the Glasgow experiments the difference of temperatures between surface and centre was just of the excess of above the temperature of the surrounding medium , when time enough had elapsed to allow the first term of Fourier 's series to be the predominating one .
Before that time the difference of temperatures must haYe been less than of either , if initially the temperature was uniform from to centre .
The ourier analysis of the transition from the supposed initial uniform distribution to the state represented by ( 3 ) is exceedingly interesting , but unnecessary for the settlement of the present question .
VII .
' Preliminary Results of an Investigation on the Electric Conductivity of Glass at different Temperatures By JOHN PERRY , B.E. , Thomson Experimental Scholar in The Natural Philosophy Laboratory at Glasgow .
Communicated by Professor Sir WILLIAM THOMSON , F.R.S. LL. D. Received Apri18 , 1875 .
A quadrant electrometer now in use in the labor{tory seems to retain its whole charge from day to day ; a week 's loss is just perceptible , be supplied by a few turns of the replenisher .
In a eIectrometer now in use the oharge is most wholly from week .
These qualities are due to great insulationresistance of the glass employed .
At valiooe times experiments have been made in the boratory at Glasgow to determine the ]-resistance of different kinds of glass .
Of the specimens hitherto examined , those of have insulated best ; and it is hoped that experiments on flint glass being proceeded with will define the most suitable for use in electrometers and other electrical instruments .
method of investigation is the same that hich ndopted by Sir William Thomsou some years ago .
BDA is a *Now Professor of Engineering in the Imperial College of ] , Jeddo , Japan .
Electric Conductivity of Glass .
hollow globe with a long stem .
is brass in pumice and sulphuric acid , to keep the stem free from moisture .
is supported on a stand restin ou the table .
oodeu clamp supports A at A. is covered ith tinfoil ith linen cloth .
is ater inside the globe .
Fig. 1 . .
For Mr. rltUle , 13th , a flint-glass jar , the globe of which ltiuls .
about celltim .
thick .
The inside put to arth t ) means of a wire ; the outside WilS connected with the elertronleter i then charged .
The vire then from tho insido , the stem was sealed at E. On March 20th as and connected with the electrometer ; the , and inside put to earth as before .
ns .
At the end of veek the charge was fouud to be I ) .
's loss was 218 , or 10 per cent. The { again sealed on } of .
On April 7 the charge was ) so that Ioss 111 , or 28 per cent. of the On Jan. 5th , 1875 , the thor g ve a of to On March 16th the h:ltl all dis charged to 1048 on ) ) a charge , the loss in 70 days , or per cenf .
Mr. J. Perry on the [ June 10 , Twenty flint-glass jars , of the shape shown in fig. 1 , are now being mined .
The composition of the glass of each jar is known to the manufacturer , and glass of the omposition as that of any jar is readily to be obtained .
The diameter of the bulbs is about centims. and their thickness about centim. A jar is filled with water nearly to the top of the stem .
A wet cloth covering all parts of the bulb and stem below the level of the insulator forms an outside coating .
After being sealed , the iars .
are placed in runnin water , the temperature of which is never greatel than F. , nor less than F. The following observations been made : Jar No. 4 .
Charged 994 .
Opened fter days .
No charge remainin , , No. 9 .
Charged .
Opened after 7 days 6 hours .
The charge remainin was 276 .
, , No. 19 .
Charged 1933 .
Opened fter 1 days .
The charge remaining was 868 .
The arrangement shown in fig. 2 was employed to determine the relation between ture and electric conductivity in a flint-glass jar .
The jar was filled to the height , at ordinary temperature , with sulphuric acid .
A is a cork supporting the glass insulator , with the lead trough containing pumice moistened with sulphuric acid .
piece of platintlm wire hangs into the sulphuric acid and terminates in a loop at , so that the inside coating of the jar is insulated .
A stiif wire , , soldered to the eloctrode of the guard-ring electrometer , passes through a small hole at without touching the glass insulator .
Con- tact between and this wire may be made or unmade by a small motion of the apparatus .
is surrounded by water .
is a thermometer , a stirrer .
I supplies water when neoessary .
is connected with outside of the electrometer .
To test the nness of the glass stem from A to , a charge was given to the jar by the wire KM .
After a certain time no furthe1 diminution of charge was observable during ten minutes , and the eleotrowas removed , the hole being closed .
The charge given on Friday .
On Monday it was found that less than 20 per cent. had been lost , a proof that the stem was clean , and that the insulationresistance of the sides of the bulb was very considerable .
The first results obtained by the author are given here in preference to those whioh have since been obtained .
They exhibit the joint effects of polarization and true conductivity , and are instructive when examined with the table of approximately true conductinty given below .
The jar was charged by an electrophorus ; when polarization had sensibly ceased , a lalnp was placed under the vessel .
The change of temperature between successive reftdings was pretty regular , exccpt when water was poured in .
When hot water was poured in the stirrer was kept in rapid motion .
Electric Conductivity of Glass .
rapidities of loss are obtained by dividing the Napiel.ian logttrithm the quotient of two charges or readings by the interval in minutes even the two observations .
Thus it is roughly assumed that the acity of the jar is the same at all temperatures .
Poured in hot water after reading .
Poured in hot water aft.er reading .
Lamp after tding .
Charged again .
Charged Charged ngain .
Charged Poured in cold water after reading .
On the Electric Conductivity of Glass .
[ June ) , The pohriztttion lvhich occurs after charging is very marked .
of the latcr tables of results seem to indicate increased polarizatn del to increase of temperature .
Thus , when any low temperature conductivity culated from successive intervals is nearly the temperature is rapidly raised and then kept constant , the cond tivity at the new ture dimimisbes for a short time as if the had just been rged .
such a jar the charge is approximately represented by I ' here I is the specific inductive capacity of the glass , the reading { the eleetrometer , and the thickness the glass .
But if is the cilic conductivity of the glass , the rate of conduction through it is ' and the quantity conducted through , divided by the charge , is equal Hence 1 diffel.ence of Napierian logarithms chffereuce of times Thus the rapidity of loss given above multiplied by the specific inducti capacity , and divided by , represents the specific collductivity of glass .
To determine the following Table of conductivities as measured rapidity of loss , the jar wns kept long enough each temperature ation to become insensible .
The free curve drawn to correct the observed conductivities was fouI to very closely to the rithmic curve here is the conductivity at the temperature is the given by the free curve for F. , and is .
Bright and Clark found that the conductivity of perc follo a similar law .
author hopes to obtain some definite results with regard to ] zation , and to dotermine for flint glass law of ilic resistance .

