1887 .
] Figures of Equilibrium of Rotating of Fluid .
359 lias been reached where further exhaustion does not affect the radiation observed .
In this way a condition seems to be reached asymptotically , in which the radiation is independent of anything removable by the Sprengel pump .
The value of the radiation found is , for the particular bright platinum wire used:\#151 ; At 408 ' C ... ... ... 378'8 x 10-4 gram water centigrade units per square centim. per sec. " 505 ' C ... ... ... . .
726T X 10-4 gram water centigrade units per square centim. per sec. the temperature of the envelope being about 15 ' 0 .
Comparatively little has been done up to the present as to radiation from the same body with the surface in different conditions .
The important results of Mr. Mortimer Evans , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1886 , as to the energy required to maintain a given candle power in incandescent lamps , with dull and with polished filaments , have been confirmed .
It is proposed to carry out further experiments on the influence of the surface of radiating bodies .
VI .
" On Figures of Equilibrium of Rotating Masses of Fluid .
" By G. H. Darwin , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Plumian Professor in the University ot Cambridge .
Received April 28 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The intention of this paper is , first , to investigate the forms which two masses of fluid assume when they revolve in close proximity about one another , without relative motion of their parts ; and secondly , to obtain a representation of the single form of equilibrium which must exist when the two masses approach so near to one another as just to coalesce into a single mass .
When the two masses are far apart the solution of the problem is simply that of the equilibrium theory of the tides .
Each mass may , as far as the action on the other is concerned , be treated as spherical .
When they are brought nearer to one another this approximation ceases to be sufficient , and the departure from sphericity of each mass begins to exercise a sensible deforming influence on the other .
The actual figure assumed by either mass may be regarded as a deformation due to the influence of the other considered as a sphere , on which is superposed the sum of an infinite series of deformations of each due to the deformation of the other and of itself .
But each mass is deformed , not only by the tidal action of the other , but also by its own rotation about an axis perpendicular to its 360 Prof. Gr .
H. Darwin .
On Figures of [ June 16 , orbit .
The departure from sphericity of either body due to rotation also exercises an influence on the other and on itself , and thus there arises another infinite series of deformations .
It is shown in the paper how the summations of these two kinds of reflected influences are to be made , by means of the solution of certain linear equations for finding three sets of coefficients .
The first set of coefficients are augmenting factors , by which the tide of each order of harmonics is to be raised above the value which it would have if the perturbing mass were spherical .
The second set correspond to one part of the rotational effect , and belong to terms of exactly the same form as the tidal terms , with which they ultimately fuse .
The third set correspond to the rest of the rotational effect , and appertain to a different class of deformation , which are in fact sectorial harmonics of different orders .
The term of the second order represents the ellipticity of the mass due to rotation , augmented , however , by mutual influence .
All the terms of this class , except the second , are very small ; their existence is , however , interesting .
From the consideration that the repulsion due to centrifugal force shall exactly balance the attraction between the two masses , the angular velocity of the system is found .
It is greater than would be the case if the masses were spherical .
The theory here sketched is applied in the paper numerically , and illustrated graphically in several cases .
When the masses are equal to one another they are found to be shaped like flattened eggs , and the two small ends face one another .
Two figures are given , in one of which the small ends nearly touch , and in the other where they actually cross .
In the latter case , as two portions of matter cannot occupy the same space , the reality must consist of a single mass of fluid consisting of two bulbs joined by a neck , somewhat like a dumb-bell .
In the figure conjectural lines are inserted to show how the overlapping of the masses must be replaced by the neck of fluid .
A comparison is also made between the Jacobian ellipsoid of equilibrium with three unequal axes and the dumb-bell .
It appears that with the same moment of .momentum the angular velocity is nearly the same in the two figures , but the kinetic energy is a little less in the dumb-bell .
The intrinsic energy of the dumb-bell is , however , greater than that of the ellipsoid , so that the total energy of the dumb-bell is slightly greater than that of the ellipsoid .
Sir William Thomson has remarked on the " gap between the unstable Jacobian ellipsoid ... . .
and the case of the smallest moment of momentum consistent with stability in two equal detached portions .
" " The consideration , " he says , " of how to fill up this gap with intermediate figures is a most attractive question , 1887 .
] Equilibrium of Rotating Masses of Fluid .
towards answering which we at present offer no contribution."* This paper is intended to be such a contribution , although an imperfect one .
M. Poincare has made an admirable investigation of the forms of equilibrium of a single rotating mass of fluid , and has specially considered the stability of Jacobi 's ellipsoid.f He has shown by a difficult analytical process , that when the ellipsoid is moderately elongated , instability sets in by a furrowing of the ellipsoid along a line which lies in a plane perpendicular to the longest axis .
It is , however , extremely remarkable that the furrow is not symmetrical with respect to the two ends , and there thus appears to be a tendency to form a dumb-bell with unequal bulbs .
M. Poincare 's work seemed so important that , although the figures above referred to were already drawn a year ago , this paper was kept back in order that an endeavour might be made to apply the principles enounced by him , concerning the stability of such systems .
The attempt , which proved abortive on account of the imperfection of approximation of spherical harmonic analysis , is given in the appendix to the paper , because , notwithstanding its failure , it presents features of interest .
The calculations in this paper being made by means of spherical harmonic analysis , it is necessary to consider whether this approximate method has not been pushed too far in the computation of figures of equilibrium which depart considerably from spheres .
A rough criterion of the applicability of the analysis is derived from a comparison between the two values of the ellipticity of an isolated revolutional ellipsoid of equilibrium as derived from the rigorous formula and from spherical harmonic analysis .
As judged by this criterion , which is necessarily in some respects too severe , the figures drawn appear to present a fair approximation to accuracy .
Since , as above stated , the rigorous method of discussing the stability of the system fails , certain considerations are adduced which bear on the conditions under which there is a form of equilibrium consisting of two fluid masses in close proximity , and it appears that there cannot be such a form , unless the smaller of the two masses exceeds about one-thirtieth of the larger .
It seemed therefore worth while to find to what results the analysis would lead when two masses , one of which is 27 times as great as the other , are brought close together .
As judged by this criterion the computed result must be very far from the truth , but as the criterion is too severe , it seemed worth while to give the figure .
The smaller mass is found to be * Thomson and Taifc , ' Natural Philosophy , ' ( 1883 ) , S778 ( i ) .
He also remarks elsewhere that by thinning a Jacobian ellipsoid in the middle , we shall get a figure of the same moment of momentum and less kinetic energy .
t ' Acta Math. , ' 7 , 3 and 4 , 1885 .
362 Mr. H. Tomlinson .
The Influence of [ June 16 ; deeply furrowed in a plane parallel to the axis of rotation , so as to be shaped like a dumb-bell , and although this result can only be taken to represent the truth very roughly , yet it cannot be entirely explained by the imperfection of the analytical method employed .
It appears then as if the smaller body were on the point of separating into two masses , in the same sort of way that the Jacobian ellipsoid may be traced through the dumb-bell shape until it becomes two masses .
M. Poincare has commented in his paper on the possibility of the application of his results , so as to throw light on the genesis of a satellite according to the nebular hypothesis , and this investigation was undertaken with such an expectation .
He remarks , however , that the conditions for the separation from a mass , which is strongly concentrated at its centre , are necessarily very different from those which he has treated mathematically .
However , both his investigation and the considerations adduced here seem to show that , when a portion of the central body becomes detached through increasing angular velocity , the portion should bear a far larger ratio to the remainder than is observed in our satellites , as compared with their planets ; and it is hardly probable that the heterogeneity of the central body can make so great a difference in the results as would be necessary , if we are to make an application of these ideas .
It seems then at present necessary to suppose that after the birth of a satellite , if it takes place at all in this way , a series of changes occur which are still quite unknown .
VII .
" The Influence of Stress and Strain on the Physical Properties of Matter .
Part I. Elasticity\#151 ; continued .
The Velocity of Sound in Metals , and a Comparison of their Moduli of Torsional and Longitudinal Elasticities as determined by Statical and Kinetical Methods .
" By Herbert Tomlinson , B.A. Communicated by Professor W. Grylls Adams , M.A. , F.R.S. Received April 29 , 1887 .
( Abstract .
) The principal object of the investigation was to ascertain whether the values of the moduli of torsional and longitudinal elasticities , as determined by statical methods , would be the same as when determined by kinetical methods , provided the deformations produced were very small .
The method of determining the modulus of longitudinal elasticity statically has been already described.* This method was applied with * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1883 , Part I.

