on Vegetable Assimilation and 1894 ] II .
" Experimental Researches on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration.\#151 ; No. II .
On the Paths of Gaseous Exchange between Aerial Leaves and the Atmosphere .
" By F. F. Blackman , B.Sc. , B.A. , St. John 's College , Demonstrator of Botany in the University of Cambridge .
Communicated by Francis Darwin , F.R.S. * Received November 15 , 1894 .
( Abstract .
) On the question of the path by which carbonic acid passes out of the leaf in respiration and into it in assimilation , whether this takes place by the stomatal openings or through the continuous surface of the cuticle , all possible extreme and intermediate views have been expressed in recent text-books of botany .
On aoeount of the smallness of the quantities of gas involved , practically no attempt has hitherto been made to determine this question by direct estimation .
The existing experimental evidence is all of 'an indirect nature , and tends rather to support the view that the exchange is a cuticular phenomenon .
An ingenious synthesis of Graham 's observations on the comparative readiness with which C02 osmoses through thin films of caoutchouc , with observations by Fremy and others on the similarity between cuticle and caoutchouc in chemical composition , first led Barthelemy ( 1868 ) to put forward the view that the cuticle was specially adapted for transmitting C02 from the external air to the assimilating cells beneath it .
This view he supported by experiments on the artificial osmosis of gases through leaves .
About the same time Boussingault performed experiments that seemed to definitely show that in assimilation , the C02 taken up by the leaf entered it through the upper surface , devoid of stomata , to which e assimilating cells are adjacent , rather than through the more is ant stomatal .
openings .
These experiments have hitherto been generally accepted , but I shall show later that the conclusions drawn them are entirely fallacious .
In support of the view that ma a *orin the paths of gaseous exchange , besides scattered induc-i 8 y various workers , we have the conclusion arrived at in 1888 an^n ' from diffusion experiments on isolated cuticle , that this the Sufficient to account for the whole gaseous exchange of anfif the \#187 ; FPMatus described in a previous paper , the eRf r , .
as been able successfully to attack the problem directly by Burf**1 am\#171 ; unts Gf 0Q2 given out or taken in by the two 8 ' the same leaf , under the same conditions .
For this pur166 Mr. F. F. Blackman .
Experimental Researches [ \#163 ; )Jf 1 * Vj pose , shallow capsules 10 sq .
cm .
in area , consisting of a glass p]a|e with a metal rim , through which tubes for the circulation of the air current pass , are employed .
Two of them are affixed to a leaf 0J opposite sides of the same area in air-tight union by means of soft wax .
Then , in the way described previously , two continuous currents of air can be kept up over the two surfaces , and the C02 produced or taken in , during a given time , by each of them be determined .
Numerous experiments on the respiration of a variety of leaves thick and thin , with the stomata all on the one side or with stomata variously distributed on the two sides , agree in showing that the stomata are the site of the exhalation of this gas .
When no stomata are present on the upper surface of a leaf , then practically no C02 is exhaled from that surface , at least , not more than falls within the working error of the apparatus under these conditions , while more than thirty times as much may be given off from the lower stomati .
ferous surface .
When stomata occur on both surfaces , the relative amounts of C02 exhaled closely follow the ratios of the numbers of stomata .
A few examples in illustration of this may be given .
A. B. c. 1 Amp el op sis hederaeea 0 S ' 0 003 o loo c.c. C02 per hour per 10 sq .
cm 3 100 Alisma Plantago. .
* .
135 100 0*030 0*025 \#187 ; \gt ; n - , , 10 sq .
cm 120 100 Iris qe^manica. . . .
* .
100 0*029 jj 1ft Rq .
fvm , T. 110 100 0*026 100 Ricinus communis. .
# 100 0 *015 \#187 ; " yy 10 sq .
cm 100 250 0 *037 Column A gives the proportionate numbers of stomata on the two surfaces ; B the amounts of C02 exhaled by these ; C the ratios of these amounts .
Each experiment lasted about fifteen hours .
Experiments on the absorption of COa during assimilation showed the same close relation to the distribution of stomata .
For these experiments a constant fixed amount of C02 must be introduced into the air stream supplied to the leaf , which makes them much more complicated .
As hitherto carried out , direct sunshine , continuous for several hours , has been essential for the success of these experiments .
They are , consequently , but few in number , though perfectly clear in their interpretation .
1894 .
] on Vegetable Assimilation and Respiration .
167 In an experiment on the leaf of Ampelopsis with no stomata on the upper surface , air containing 1*6 per cent. C02 was supplied to both surfaces at the rate of 22 c.c. for every fifteen minutes ; of the 0'37 c.c. of C02 thus entering the capsule on the lower surface in this time , 0'14 c.c. was absorbed , while none at all was absorbed by the upper surface .
With a leaf of Alisma , on the contrary , the whole of the C02\#151 ; 0'15 c.c.\#151 ; supplied in fifteen minutes to the upper surface was absorbed , and O 'll c.c. of that supplied to the lower .
In this leaf the stomata are in the ratio of 135 above to 100 below , to which ratio the absorption numbers closely correspond .
A very simple experiment will show that stomata are practically the sole path of entry of C02 for assimilation .
If part of the lower stomatic surface of any leaf with no stomata on its upper surface ( Sparrmannia gives very clear results ) be coated with wax so as to mechanically block the stomata , no starch can be formed in that area , while the adjacent areas become rich in starch .
I performed this experiment in 1893 , and showed it to some botanists ; recently it has been published by Stahl.* As stated previously , the theory of " cuticular exchange " has hitherto found its strongest support in the experiments of Boussin-gault , in which , under similar conditions , leaves of Neriurn Oleander assimilated less when the upper astomatiferous surface had been coated with an unguent than when the lower stomatiferous surface had been so coated .
From this he drew the obvious conclusion that the C02 of assimilation normally passes into the leaf through the cuticle of the upper surface .
Exposure of the interesting experimental fallacy here concealed , however , quite reverses the interpretation of these experiments .
Boussingault experimented with leaves in an atmosphere containing 30 per cent. C02 .
Now the optimum percentage of C02 for assimilation is very low for this leaf , and the real interpretation of the result is that the diminished decomposition of C02 in the leaf with open stomata is due to its obtaining not less C02 but more C02 .
In fact , there penetrates into it so much C02that its assimilatory activity is lessened , and falls below that of the other leaf into which , owing to the blocking of the stomata , the C02 only diffuses very slowly , and cannot exceed the optimal strength .
' This view has been conclusively proved by a series of experiments in different strengths of C02 .
In a small percentage the leaf with its stomata open decomposes more C02 than the leaf with its stomata blocked a result just the reverse of Boussingault 's .
Further evidence on the possible paths of gaseous exchange has been obtained by investigating the degree to which diffusion of C02 can be artificially produced through the living leaf .
Strong mixtures COa are led continuously across one surface of a leaf , and the * ' Botanische Zeitung , ' July , 1894 .
Presents .
[ Dec. 6 , a mount which diffuses through is estimated .
On supplying 31 per cent. C02 to the lower surface of a leaf of Nerium only 0 035 per cent , appears by diffusion in a slow current of air kept continually passing over the upper surface of the leaf .
Other experiments on the respiration of injected leaves also support the view that the stomatal openings , in spite of their minuteness , offer a very much easier path from the atmosphere to the interior of the leaf than does the cuticle .
Conclusions.\#151 ; 1 .
Under normal conditions practically the sole pathway for C02 into or out of the leaf is by the stomata .
Since oxygen diffuses more readily than C02 through fine openings , the same prob-ably holds for oxygen and the whole of the gas exchange .
2 .
Under abnormal conditions , when the stomata or intercellular spaces are blocked and the surrounding tension of C02 is great enough , passage of C02 by osmosis through the cuticle may take place .
3 .
That such closure of stomata as is held to take place in darkness does not prevent the distribution of gas exchange closely agreeing with that of the stomata .
4 .
That the exhalation of C02 in bright light by a leafy shoot in Garreau 's well-known experiment is not the expression of any physiological truth for the leaf , but only due to the imperfections of the conditions ; to the presence of immature parts , or of tissues not sufficiently green or not fully illuminated .
Mature isolated green leaves fully illuminated assimilate the whole of their respiratory C02 and allow none to escape from them .
Presents , December 6 , 1894 .
Transactions .
Boston:\#151 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XXIX .
8vo .
Poston 1894 .
The Academy .
Brisbane:\#151 ; Queensland Branch , Royal Geographical Society of Australasia .
Proceedings and Transactions .
Yol .
IX .
8vo .
Brisbane 1894 .
The Branch .
Cambridge , Mass.:\#151 ; Museum of Comparative Zoology .
Bulletin .
Yol .
XXY .
Xos .
9\#151 ; 10 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1894 .
The Museum .
Cracow:\#151 ; Academy des Sciences .
Bulletin International .
Octobre , 1894 .
8vo .
Cracovie .
The Academy .
DublinRoyal Irish Academy .
Transactions .
Yol .
XXX .
Parts 13\#151 ; 14 .
4to .
Dublin 1894 .
The Academy .
Edinburgh : Botanical Society .
Transactions and Proceedings .
Yol .
XX .
Part 1 .
8vo .
Edinburgh 1894 .
The Society .

