1885.1 Enterochlorophyll and Allied Pigments .
dd n'= jrJ t\ ( 1 +n ' sin26\gt ; ) V sin*6\gt ; ' ri(\+n ) \#151 ; \#151 ; ; '8 .
This is not exactly the form considered by Jacobi , but if we write _ 1=tntto z ( uq ) and n= \#151 ; kzsnzun his result is equivalent to IK O ( u Uq ) Q(u\#151 ; w0 ) Connected with \#163 ; ( u ) is a second function of the form ?
i(w)=2(1-/ i)nK'(^ ~~ k , m ) ' This satisfies the relations g'1(w+2iK ' ) = g'1(w ) " 1 r1(\#171 ; +2K)-f1(\#171 ; )=^/ j\gt ; ' and I find that it can be expressed in terms of O(w ) by means of the -j\#151 ; log US\gt ; \ fwhere 2 u0\lt ; P(u\#151 ; w0 ) equation \#163 ; i(w ) : is the same constant as above .
It thus appears that Q(u ) and are connected with and supplement each other in a very remarkable manner .
For example , if we write \#163 ; ( u ) and ^(t* ) in the more convenient forms \#163 ; ( w , w0 ) , ( ^(u , uq ) , it follows that besides Jacobi 's result* u0\#163 ; ( u , 'uQ)=ug(uQ , u ) , we have likewise the equivalent form ^o\#163 ; i(M\gt ; wo ) =^CiOo\gt ; M)II .
" Further Observations on Enterochlorophyll and Allied Pigments .
" By G. A. MacMunn , M.A. , MJD .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 21 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) In a paper read before the Royal Society in 1883 , I described the-results of an examination of the so-called " bile " of invertebrates , and showed that the alcohol extracts of their liver or other appendage of the intestine answering to that organ , showed a spectrum so like that of vegetable chlorophyll , as to have led me to assume that noessential difference exists between the spectrum of enterochlorophyll and plant chlorophyll .
320 Dr. McMunn .
Further Observations on [ Apr. 30 1 At that time I could not decide the points which are now con- i sidered : ( 1 ) Is enterochlorophyll due to the presence of symbiotic algse ?
( 2 ) If not , is it an immediate food product , and merely an 1 instance of the intra-cellular digestion of food chlorophyll ?
( 3 ) If it is not due to either of these sources , can it be proved that it is built up by the animal containing it ?
( 4 ) In what points does it differ from plant chlorophyll and that of I believe I can prove that the first two questions can be answered in the negative , and that it is an animal product , and does differ to a slight extent from vegetable chlorophyll , and also from that of Spongilla .
This evidence is based on the result of spectroscopic examination , especially of the bands in the blue half of the spectrum , on the results obtained by saponifying the colouring matters , and on the morphological characters of the enterochlorophyll in the organs containing it .
With regard to chlorophyll itself , I mean the mixture of colouring matters obtainable on extracting green leaves of land plants with alcohol , or with alcohol and ether , I believe that of the six bands of such a solution , five correspond to those seen in a living leaf , and that Kraus is correct in saying that such bands can be seen in a leaf .
The first four bands appear to belong to the green constituent of the chlorophyll , the other two to the yellow .
On comparing solutions .of enterochlorophyll with those of plant chlorophyll , it is seen that " the bands corresponding to V and VI* of the latter are replaced by one , -or by two , occupying a somewhat different position .
The enterochlorophyll of the following species is described : Limnceus stagnalis , Trochus ziziphinus , Trochus cinerarius , littorea , Patella vulgata , Helix pomatia , Solaster papposa , and several specimens of Uraster rubens , \amp ; c. In all these , enterochlorophyll is present , and presents very uniform spectroscopic characters , and the same as those described in the case of the Molluscs , Echinoderms , and Arthropods referred to in my former paper .
The bands of the spectra of their solutions have been measured in wave-lengths , and show a remarkable agreement .
In some cases two bands placed closely together in red replace the single dominant band of chlorophyll , and in every instance the solutions possess a red fluorescence .
In consequence of Hansen having published the result of saponifying vegetable chlorophyll , and of his having succeeded in obtaining -certain crystals , which he maintains are those of isolated " chlorophyll green " and " chlorophyll yellow , " I was anxious to try the effect of saponifying enterochlorophyll .
It was necessary , however , to repeat his experiments on plant chlorophyll before saponifying entero-* Adopting Kraus 's numbers .
1885 .
] Enterochlorophylla Allied Pigments .
321 .hlorophyll .
On doing this , I found that his statement to the effect ; hat chlorophyll is not decomposed by such treatment , is not supported m the results obtained .
' The bands of solutions after saponifying oecur in an entirely different position from those of bands of similar ?
olutions before saponifying , but I found the method useful in enabling me to compare the results when enterochlorophyll and Spongilla chlorophyll are saponified with those obtained in the case of plant chlorophyll .
| I could separate , in the case of plant chlorophyll , the constituents called by Hansen " chlorophyll green " and " chlorophyll yellow , " by adopting his methods , and found that ' the soap on repeated extraction with petroleum ether , lost all the yellow colouring matter , and that the latter could be obtained in some cases in yellow needles , * the residue giving the colour reactions of Schwalbe and Capranica .
The ( alcohol and ether extracts on the other hand contained Hansen 's j " chlorophyll green , " and none of the yellow constituent , and ( answered , except for the position of its bands , to Hansen 's description .
On applying the same method to the chlorophyll of , a complete separation of the constituents could not be brought about , ias it was only partial , and an examination of the solutions showed a total alteration of spectra .
In the case of enterochlorophyll ; saponification also alters the pigment .
In some cases I succeeded in separating the yellow from the I green constituent ; and from the enterochlorophyll of rubens , I obtained crystals of " chlorophyll green " and " chlorophyll yellow , " the former crystallising in sphere crystals , showing a black cross with polarised light , the latter in yellow radiating needles .
But in almost every case it was found impossible to separate the constituents , as the petroleum ether showed a band in red , and the alcohol and ether bands in the blue end of the spectrum .
The solid chlorophyll yellow , while agreeing with that of plants in its behaviour towards nitric and sulphuric acids , did not , however , show the same blue-green colour with iodine in iodide of potassium , as it generally became reddish or remained unchanged .
I agree with Hansen that the chlorophyll yellow of plants is a " lipochrome , " and also that of enterochlorophyll ; the lipochromes being a class of colouring matters\#151 ; so-called by Krukenberg\#151 ; which were formerly known by the name of " luteins .
" Under this name are also included allied pigments , such as carotin , zoonerythrin , Kuhne 's chromophans\#151 ; obtained by him from the retina , egg-lutein , and other pigments , which all possess bands in the blue and violet , and are soluble in such solvents as alcohol , ether , chloroform , bisulphide of carbon , benzol , petroleum ether , \amp ; c. They all are coloured It is mot yet clearly proved whether these yellow needles may not belong to a fatty acid whose crystals are stained by the yellow colouring matter .
S22 Prof. G. H. Darwin .
[ Apr. 30 blue-green to blue by nitric and sulphuric acids , and generally blue green with iodine in iodide of potassium ( in the solid state ) .
On isolation of the yellow constituent of enterochlorophyll b\ saponification and extraction with petroleum ether , I found that it generally showed only one band , or sometimes two , but these bands generally gave different measurements from those of plant chlorophyll .
To see whether symbiotic algae were present in the organs yielding enterochlorophyll , I examined fresh frozen sections , or portions of the organ teased out in salt solution , but the results were negative .
On steeping such preparations , first in alcohol , then in weak solution of caustic soda , and neutralising with acetic acid , and afterwards testing with a solution of iodine in iodide of potassium and with Schultze 's fluid , I never obtained evidence of the presence of starch or cellulose .
Hence , apart from the absence of symbiotic algae under the microscope , this result negatives their presence and also that of food chlorophyll .
] The morphology of enterochlorophyll was studied in similar prepara-l tions , and on the whole it appears to be present dissolved in oil globules and in granules , both of them enclosed in the epithelium lining the liver tubes .
It also occurs dissolved in the protoplasm of the liver cells , and these appearances vary slightly in different cases .
It would therefore appear that enterochlorophyll is built up in the organ containing it ; that it is a chlorophyll , of which there are several in animals , and that it is composed of two constituents , of which one resembles closely the corresponding constituent of plant chlorophyll , while the other is generally slightly different , but that no essential difference exists between the respective pigments is proved by the fact that the constituents of both may be obtained crystallised in the same form .
In enterochlorophyll there is probably a more intimate union between the constituents than in plant chlorophyll .
All readings are reduced to wave-lengths , and the most important spectra mapped in the accompanying charts .
The appearance of enterochlorophyll under the microscope in different cases is also shown in the accompanying drawing , as well as the crystals referred to above .
III .
" Note on a Previous Paper .
" By G. H. Darwin , F.R.S. , Fellow of Trinity College and Plumian Professor in the University of Cambridge .
Received March 19 , 1885 .
The paper entitled " On the Stresses caused in the Interior of the Earth by the Weight of Continents and Mountains " ( " Phil. Trans. , " , -

