560 Messrs. C. T. Hey cock and F. H. Neville .
the calculated values of the frequencies can only be regarded as confirmatory of the value inserted in the atomic heat formulae .
The following comparison shows the order of agreement between the values obtained by the two methods:\#151 ; VmxlO~12 .
Metal .
Al .
Ag- Pb .
Um ( specific heat ) 8*0 4 3 1 -9 \ m ( elastic constants ) 8*3 4*4 1 *5 Prof. Callendar has kindly inserted a note regarding his theory of atomic heat .
Dilute Solutions of Aluminium in Gold .
By C. T. Heycock , F.R.S. , and F. H. Neville , F.E.S. ( From the Goldsmiths ' Metallurgical Laboratory , Cambridge .
) ( Received* June 16 , \#151 ; Read June 25 , 1914 .
) ( Abstract .
) The paper deals with the solid condition of alloys containing not more than 5 per cent , by weight of aluminium .
The diagram is a concentration-temperature diagram , the atomic percentage of aluminium being measured horizontally from left to right , and the temperature , in degrees Centigrade , being measured vertically .
The alloys melt at varying temperatures , but below the upper line A abed of the diagram they are wholly solid ; we may say , approximately , that they are wholly solid below 525 ' C. Between this temperature and the level of the point L there is a range of 100 ' .
The diagram shows four compartments in this area and records the following facts:\#151 ; The first area , on the left , indicates the fact that gold can dissolve rather more than 2 per cent , by weight of aluminium to form uniform solid solutions ; these we call a. With rather more aluminium we have the complex alloys of the second area , containing , in addition to a , a second constituent j3 .
In the alloys of the third compartment , / 3 is the sole constituent , while in the fourth a new Dilute Solutions of Aluminium in Gold .
561 constituent D appears .
Like a , 0 can vary in composition , but only between'narrow limits ; D is probably the compound AU5AI2 .
The solid 0 may be regarded as a solvent for a and D , for when the representative point of an alloy passes , by cooling , out of the triangle 6Lc , then a or D crystallises from the previously uniform substance of the alloy , the form in which the D crystallises being somewhat remarkable .
L is an eutectoid point , when a slowly cooled alloy falls below 524 ' , ^the Dilute Solutions of Aluminium in Gold .
temperature of the L point , the residual 0 breaks up into a " pearlite " or eutectoid complex of a and D , the / 3-phase wholly disappearing .
* The above remarks apply only to alloys that have been cooled from the molten state to temperatures not below 400 ' C. If cooled below 400 ' , the alloys with an aluminium content between 2 and 5 per cent , by weight undergo a remarkable change , they recalesce , the temperature suddenly jumping as much as 70 ' in the case of alloys containing 3*3 per cent , by weight of aluminium , with a smaller rise in the case of alloys with a greater or less percentage .
The microscope shows that the recalescence is due to a decomposition , or recrystallisation , of the 0 , or more precisely , to a reaction between the a and the D of the L eutectoid .
The recalescence causes a permanent change in structure that is unaffected by prolonged annealing at any temperature below 520 ' , so that the new state must be regarded as the stable one at all temperatures below 520 ' .
The recalescence sometimes , but rarely , occurs spontaneously above 410 ' ; but between 2*5 and 4 per cent , of aluminium it can be provoked at much higher temperatures ; for example , if an ingot near L in composition be cooled from the molten state , and at 500 ' , or even as high as 514 ' ( where it is wholly solid ) , it be touched with a cold steel wire , the recalescence occurs with a rise of temperature to near 525 ' , but never to above this point .
A complete recrystallisation takes place , with partial fusion of the ingot .
Such a profound change caused in this way is somewhat remarkable .
We have strong reason to think that , in all cases of recalescence , the new substance formed is the definite compound Au4A1 .
The diagram we give does not apply to the alloys containing the new substance .

