550 Lymphatics and their Origin in Muscular Tissues .
[ Feb. 15 , film of conducting liquid by a discharge between the electrodes of a circuit .
The mode of effecting this was to make one electrode terminate in a platinum plate fixed in a horizontal position , and supplied with a uniform film of dilute sulphuric acid ; the other in a platinum point , the distance of which from the plate is capable of delicate adjustment by means of a screw .
Electromotive force required for this break is not less than that of 5 cells of Grove .
As soon as the current passes , the fluid between the plate and point will be decomposed and electrical continuity broken .
This done , the fluid flows back again , and continuity is restored .
By a proper adjustment of the supply of fluid and of the distance of the electrodes ( the latter varying from '05 inch to *001 inch ) , the number of disruptions may be made to attain 1000 per second .
The currents delivered by this form of break are exceedingly uniform , and the effects produced are quite equal in delicacy to those produced by the electromagnetic or by the wheel break .
The elements used in the battery to which allusion was made in the early part of this paper are zinc and carbon .
The zinc is immersed in dilute sulphuric acid in the proportions of .
1 volume of acid to 7 of water ; and the carbon in a saturated solution of bichromate of potash With 1 volume of sulphuric acid to 7 of the solution .
The carbon and bichromate solution are held in a porous cell .
The absence of nitric acid permits this battery to be used in a room ; while the fact that the zinc is attacked only when the circuit is complete , renders it unnecessary to lift the plates out of the fluid when not in use , as in the bichromate battery .
The only limit to the time during which this battery may be left untouched , appears to be the period when the bichromate salt finds its way into the outer cell , so as to attack the zinc independently of electrical action .
But this does not take place to an extent materially to affect the action for some months .
II .
" Lymphatics and their Origin in Muscular Tissues .
" By George Hoggan , M.B. , and Frances Elizabeth Hoggan , M.D. Communicated by Dr. Billing , F.R.S. Received January 18 , 1877 .
The authors announce that they have discovered the long-looked-for lymphatics of striated muscle , and describe them as radicles , valveless reservoirs , and waived efferent vessels .
While describing their structure and relations , they point out that the reservoirs are found on one plane or side of a muscle ; the valved efferents are found on the other side , as , for example , in the case of the diaphragm , transversalis abdominis , and triangularis sterni muscles .
In connexion with this , they have discovered 1877 .
] Mr. W. Shanks on 487* = 486 .
a dense plexus of valved vessels on the anterior surface of the abdominal wall , corresponding to that on the pleural surface of the diaphragm .
Upon the lymphatics of muscle they find the peculiar serous cells first described by Ludwig and Schweigger Seidel , whose views they fully confirm , in opposition to those expressed by Eanyier .
They deny the existence of stomata in the Mammalia , but admit it in the case of frogs ; and as the peritoneum of the latter is lined by crenated lymphatic endothelium , they admit its connexion with the lymphatic system ; but , on account of the absence of the latter endothelium as well as stomata from the serous cavities of mammals , they deny any connexion between these and the lymphatics .
While describing the structure of basement membrane , they discuss the facts adduced by Klein and Debove as bearing on the question of absorption , and give their own views on this question .
They hold that the lower surface of the diaphragm is an exuding one , and only an absorbent one when all the natural conditions are reversed .
They describe the minute anatomy of the lymphatics of the intestine , and show that it is the glandular structures , and not the muscles of the wall , that regulate the amount of these vessels .
They also trace complete identity between these and the lymphatics of striated muscle .
In either case they figure the connective-tissue cavities as forming t e radicles of the lymphatics , but hold that these are not the only lymphatic afferents , nor that that is their only function .
To prove this , they discuss the nature of these cavities , as they have discovered them in tendon and other gelatinous structures in different classes of animals to be of the same structure as in the cornea .
Unlike man , the small mammals have no special vascular or lymphatic vessels in the peritoneal tissue , being dependent on the muscles below for those structures .
^ ^ The authors finish by entering upon a minute description of the technique employed by them , and offer a series of about 60 camera-lucida drawings of preparations in their possession in illustration of their researches .
XXI .
" Remarks chiefly on 487* = 486 .
" By William Shanks .
Communicated by the Rev. GK Salmon , D.D. , F.R.S. Received November 29 , 1876 .
In the cases of 3,32 = 1 , also of 487 , 4872 m486 , we are unable to show why the Period itself is , in each case , divisible by the Prime .
But we can show , with little labour , that the period arising from ^ is itself divisible by 487 , and therefore that ^gya = 486 .
The number composed of 486 9s is divisible by 487 .
Now this number

