On some Phenomena of Colours , exhibited by thin Plates .
By John Knox , Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read April 6 , 1815 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1815 , p. 161 .
] It is not surprising , says the author , that neither Sir Isaac Newton , nor Dr. Herschel , nor any other writer who has followed on the same subject , have given any explanation which appears to him to be satisfactory , since they have not been in possession of the phenomena connected with this inquiry .
After stating various objections which he considers as conclusive against the alternate disposition to be reflected or transmitted inherent in the rays of light , and recurring at certain equal intervals which are expressed under the name of fits by Sir Isaac Newton , Mr. Knox proceeds to describe those new phenomena which form the principal subject of his paper , and which he has been enabled to make by the assistance of the method of observing such appearances employed by Dr. Herschel .
This method consists in using the shadows of some opake substance held over thin plates of glass , for the purpose of distinguishing from each other the several effects produced by different surfaces employed at the same time .
If a plate of unsilvered glass be laid upon a table before a window , and a piece of wire be held over it , there will be seen two shadows of the wire , one from each of the surfaces ; if a second plate be laid upon the former , there will be three shadows , one from the uppermost surface , one from the lowest , and a third between them from the contiguous surfaces which together form but one image .
If either of the surfaces in contact be slightly curved , so as to be a portion of a large sphere , then rings of colours observed by Newton are seen , and are found to arise from reflection at the surfaces of contact , as is proved by their being intercepted by the middle shadow of the wire .
At the same time may also be seen other rings , occasioned by light transmitted through the surfaces in contact and reflected back to the eye from the undermost surface ; but as these rings are not the subject of Mr. Knox 's experiments , he painted the under surface of the lower plate black , in order to prevent their interference with his observations .
Under these circumstances , a second image of the rings , formed by reflected light , is seen by means of two reflections from the parallel surfaces of the upper plate of glass ; and in a favourable light further repetitions of the same rings may be seen by several successive reflections .
Under these circumstances , in addition to these appearances , Mr. Knox observed certain fringes to proceed on each side from the points of intersection of a set of primary circles , with their reflected images appearing as parallel lines at right angles to the line joining their centres , and divided into two sets , coloured in opposite directions from a central line .
When a piece of glass is laid upon a convex surface , the secondary set is equal to the primary , and in that case the fringes are straight lines ; but when by due combination of surfaces the primary and secondary sets differ in size from each other , then these fringes assume a circular form , coloured according to the same law as the straight fringes , being divided into two classes by a middle curve , towards which the violet edges of the curves on each side are turned .
To these curves , which have not been observed before , Mr. Knox gives the name of intersectionary rings .
In the same manner as one set of rings is produced by the intersection of primary and secondary reflected circles with each other , they may also be produced by the intersection of other sets , either of transmitted or reflected rings , and may be rendered numerous by a number of surfaces of various forms ; or , on the contrary , may be exhibited in their most simple state by the intersection of primary fringes with each other .
For if two slips of plane glass be applied to each other at a small angle , the fringes of colour then appear as straight bars of prismatic colours parallel to each other .
And if a third plate of glass be placed upon the uppermost , with a slight inclination situated transversely to the former , the bands thus produced are at right angles to the preceding ; and by their intersections present a set of intersectionary fringes parallel to each other , and bisecting the angle between the primaries from which they originate .
These fringes , as in the former cases , are divided by a central band into two sets , of which the colours are oppositely placed , and on this account the author calls them binary , a term which applies to the numerous class of phenomena which he has observed by a great variety of combinations .
He reckons as many as six kinds of rectilinear bands produced in his experiments which have not been noticed by any other writer .
In order to ascertain what effect the presence of air might have on these phenomena , the author repeated some of his experiments in vacuo , and found that the removal of the air had no perceptible effect .
Even the interposition of water between the surfaces appears to him to diminish but little the brilliancy of the colours .
Nitric acid has more effect ; and in fluids of greater density , as olive oil , the whole class of phenomena disappear .
It appears somewhat strange , says Mr. Knox , that Newton should have attributed the coloured rings to a plate of air and to supposititious fits of easy reflection and refraction , when a cause more obvious was at hand ; namely , the interference of the reflecting and refracting strata diffused over the contiguous surfaces : for it may be supposed , that when a ray passing out of glass into air is interrupted and receives a new impulse by the influence of a second refracting medium , these contrary impulses may be repeated many times , and by repeated vibration may affect the rays according to their different refrangibility , so as to separate them into differently coloured spectra .
He therefore thinks it highly probable , that by this compound action and reaction between the strata and light , and between the rays of light themselves , all the various phenomena are produced , although from their extreme minuteness an accurate knowledge of the mode of operation is not to be expected .

