II .
" On the Formula investigated by Dr. BRINKLEY for the general Term in the Development of LAGRANGE'S Expression for the Summation of Series and for successive Integration .
" By Sir J. F. W. HERSCHEL , Bart. , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 26 , 1860 .
( Abstract .
) In the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1807 , Dr. Brinkley has investigated an expression of the general term of the series of Lagrange and Laplace for the filite differences and integrals of any function u in terms of its differential coefficients and common integrals of successive orders ad infinitum , which is in effect equivalent to the development of the functions ( et_ 1 )n and ( et-1 )in powers of t. The demonstration of the formulae arrived at , as there stated , is circuitous and extremely difficult to follow ; so much so as to render a simpler and easier one a desideratum in analysis , as there are probably few who have had the patience to follow it out to its conclusion .
More recenitly ( Philosophical Transactions , 1816 ) , the author of the present paper arrived at a general and extremely simple expression for the coefficient of Itn in the development of any funetion of et such ssA(et ) , in which are included , as particular cases , the two functions treated in Dr. Brinkle.y 's paper , .
In the case of ( etl ) ' , n being ositive , the development so obtained agreed in form with that arrived at by Brinkley , and before him by Professor Ivory ; but in that of ( et1 ) - ) it differs from Br1inkley 's totally in point of form ( though affording , of course , the same numerical results ) , being much simpler in .
expression and far more easily reduced to numbers. .
Neither was it at all apparent by what mode of transformation it was possible to pass from one form to the other ; and this has ever since remained a difficulty .
The essential difference between the two forms is , that in the general coefficient , as expressed by Brinikley , the progression of terms of which it consists are multiplied respectively by the successive differences of zero , A0OV+1 2ox +2 A3ox+3 , &amp; C which run out in a diverging progression to infinity ; so that the numbe'r of terms of which the coefficient consists is limited , not by this progression coming to an end per se , but -by relations of another kind ; whereas in the coefficient resulting from the other mode of treatment , the differences of zero involved form the progression AO , AaO , I. .
* .
O$ which terminates per se at its xth term .
A theorem subsequently demonstrated by the author of this paper , however , in his " Collection of Examples in the Calculus of Finite Differences , " affords the mean , s of expressing any term in the former progression by a series of terms belong , ing to the latter .
By substituting , then , the values so obtainied for each of those which occur in Brinkley 's series , the transformation in question is accomplished ; and the process , whielc has the.appearanice of considerable complexity , is siingularly simplified by the self-annihilation of all its most uinmanageable terms .

