Some Experiments and Observations on the Substances produced in different chemical Processes on Fluor Spar .
By Sir Humphry Davy , LL. D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read July 8 , 1813 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1813 , p. 263 .
] In the Bakerian lecture for 1808 , the author had supposed fluor acid to be decomposed when potassium is heated in silicated fluoric acid gas , and that oxygen was separated from it ; an inference which had also been drawn from a similar experiment by Messrs. GayLussac and Thenard .
But when he afterwards found that oxymuriatic acid could not be decomposed , and that no oxygen could be separated from the compounds of this body with phosphorus , sulphur , or the metals , he was led to conceive an analogy between the oxymuriatic and fluoric compounds , an analogy also suggested to him by M. Ampere .
The experiments described in the present paper are principally guided by this analogy , with a view to ascertain whether it is well founded .
The subjects of experiment are silicated fluoric gas , originally discovered by Scheele .
Liquid fluoric acid in its concentrated state , first obtained by Messrs. Gay-Lussac and Thenard , and the fluo-boric acid of the same chemists .
When these compounds are acted upon by potassium or sodium , the results are fluates of potash or soda , with silicum , hydrogen , or boron , according to the compound operated upon .
With regard to these results , there are three hypotheses which may be maintained .
One is , that fluoric acid consists of an inflammable base united to oxygen .
A second , that it consists of a simple base , which may be called fluorine ( analogous to chlorine ) , united with hydrogen .
A third is , according to the tenets of the phlogistians , that fluoric acid , like metallic oxides , is liable to combine with hydrogen , and form an inflammable compound .
Since all the phenomena may be explained according to any one or other of these hypotheses , the sole question is , which of these explanations is best , as being most conformable to the general series of chemical facts with which we are at present acquainted .
Sulphuric and nitric acids which , according to the first supposition , are inflammable bases combined with oxygen and water , when acted upon by ammonia yield water , but fluoric acid in combining with ammonia gives out no water .
Sulphate of ammonia , by the action of potassium , yields sulphur and ammonia ; and in the same manner nitrate of ammonia yields its base azote , with ammonia .
But when fluate of ammonia is acted upon by potassium , the only product beside ammonia is hydrogen , just as in the action of potassium upon muriate of ammonia , which yields only hydrogen and ammonia .
In the latter case chlorine combines with the potassium ; and it would appear that a similar base is contained in the fluate of ammonia .
By the voltaic battery also , hydrates of such bodies as are known to contain oxygen , as sulphuric acid , hydrophosphorous acid , and nitric acid , all yield oxygen at the positive wire , and at the negative they give out their base , or a suboxide , along with hydrogen .
The strong action of fluoric acid on almost all bodies , occasioned considerable difficulty in attempting to collect the products of its electrization .
But in a tube of horn silver , when it was electrified by a wire of platina at the positive pole , the wire was covered with a chocolate-coloured powder , but no oxygen was extricated .
When a piece of plumbago was placed as the positive conductor in fluoric acid , it was quickly destroyed , and a subfluate of iron was deposited at the negative surface , the fluid becoming turbid and black .
These and other phenomena of electrization appear to the author not favourable to the supposition of fluoric acid consisting of an inflammable base combined with oxygen ; but to be best explained by supposing it to be , like muriatic acid , composed of hydrogen , which appears at the negative pole , and a peculiar principle to be termed fluorine , which , like chlorine , is negative , and is attracted by the positive pole , and in general combines with the metal , which is there exposed to its action .
If , then , according to this supposition , we assume that fluates are combustibles united with fluorine , this principle cannot be obtained separate by means of any other combustible , as these will only form new compounds with it ; but we may hope to effect the separation by means of oxygen or chlorine ; as these in certain cases separate each other .
And since the fluates of silver , mercury , and potash , are decomposed by muriatic acid , the author exposed these compounds also to the action of chlorine , in the hope that fluorine might by that means be disengaged .
But though these fluates were each decomposed , the matter separated from them acted upon the vessels containing them with too much energy to be exhibited in a separate state .
There seems , however , says the author , great reason to suppose that a particular principle is separated from them analogous to chlorine , and that when it can be obtained separate , it will be found to be a gaseous body .
He estimates the number which should represent fluorine at less than half that of chlorine , and so little exceeding that of oxygen that those who would suppose it to contain oxygen combined with an inflammable base , must suppose the base to be less than one twentieth part of the oxygen with which it combines .

