1874 .
] Election of Fellows .
361 respirators ; but he informed me that his lungs were very strong .
He was , however , good enough to accede to my request .
Packing the respirator with greater care , I entered the den with Captain Shaw .
I c\amp ; uld hear him breathe long , slow inhalations ; and after the lapse of seven minutes I heard him cough .
In seven and a half minutes he had to quit the place , thus proving that his lungs were able to endure the irritation seven times as long as mine could bear it .
I continued in the smoke with hardly any discomfort for sixteen minutes , and certainly could have remained in it much longer .
During this time I was in a condition to render very material assistance to a person in danger of suffocation .
The smoke-cap I wore was one made by Mr. Sinclair , which has a mouthpiece similar to that used in the inhalation of nitrous oxide .
But , to show the care necessary in packing the respirator , it is only necessary to remark that , with the packing furnished to me by Mr. Sinclair , it was not possible for either myself or Mr. Cottrell to continue in a dense smoke for more than three minutes ; and even these were minutes of laborious breathing .
Flannel disks are employed in these respirators , but I cannot recommend them .
Cotton-wool carefully moistened and teased is , in my opinion , much better .
It is always possible to associate fragments of lime with the respirator , thus , if necessary , intercepting a portion of the carbonic acid .
But in most fires we have a more or less free circulation of air ; and I venture to think that not in one case in a thousand of actual fires would the combination of smoke and carbonic acid be so noisome as it was in the experiments here described .
The Society then adjourned over the Whitsuntide Becess , to Thursday , June 11 .
June 4 , 1874 .
The Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair . .
The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read , Sir James Alderson and General Boileau were , with the consent of the Society , nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining the Lists .
The votes of the Fellows present having been collected , the following candidates were declared duly elected into the Society:\#151 ; 362 Messrs. H. E. Roscoe and A. Schuster on the [ June 11 , Isaac Lowthlan Bell , F.C.S. W. T. Blanford , E.G.S. Henry Bowman Brady , I .L.S .
Thomas Lauder Brunton , M.D. , Sc. D. Prof. W. Kingdon Clifford , M.A. Augustus Wollaston Pranks , M.A. Prof. Olaus Henrici , Ph. D. Prescott Gr .
Hewett , F.R.C.S. John Eliot Howard , P.L.S. Sir Henry Sumner Maine , LL. D. Edmund James Mills , D.Sc .
Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry , P.E.A.S. Henry Wyldbore Bumsey , M.D. Alfred B. C. Selwyn , F.Gf .
S. Charles William Wilson , Major B.E. Thanks were given to the Scrutators .
June 11 , 1874 .
JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER , C.B. , President , in the Chair .
Mr. William Thomas Blanford , Dr. Thomas Lauder Brunton , Professor W. Kingdon Clifford , Mr. Prescott Gr .
Hewett , Mr. John Eliot Howard , Dr. Edmund James Mills , the Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry , and Major Charles William Wilson were admitted into the Society .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read I. " Note on the Absorption-Spectra of Potassium and Sodium at low Temperatures .
" By H. E. Roscoe , F.R.S. , and Arthur Schuster , Ph. D. Received April 30,1874 .
In order to obtain the absorption-spectrum afforded by the well-known green-coloured potassium vapour , pieces of the clean dry metal were sealed up in glass tubes filled with hydrogen , and one of these was then placed in front of the slit of a large Steinheil 's spectroscope furnished with two prisms having refracting angles of 45 ' and 60 ' .
The magnifying-power of the telescope was 40 , and was sufficient clearly to separate the D lines with one prism .
A continuous spectrum from a lime-light was used , and that portion of a tube containing the bright metallic globule of potassium was gently heated until the green vapour made its appearance .
A complicated absorption-spectrum was then seen , a set of bands ( a ) in the red coming out first ; whilst after a few moments two other groups appeared on either side of the D lines , the group / 3 ( less refrangible ) being not so dark as the group y. These bands are all shaded off towards the red , and in general appearance resemble those of the iodine-spectrum .
In order to assure ourselves that the bands are not caused by the presence of a trace of an oxide , tubes were prepared in

