On the Transmission of Environmental Effects .
discrimination , so that the two appear exactly alike , although by another kind of light a difference is plainly visible .
8 .
Colour adaptation increases the perception of relative difference for colours other than the dominant .
9 .
The conscious judgment has very little effect in colour adaptation .
10 .
Colour adaptation greatly helps in the correct discrimination of colours and masks the effects of the very great physical differences which are found in different kinds of illumination .
11 .
Spectral yellow , after colour adaptation to green , still appears yellow , and not red .
12 .
Colour adaptation appears to produce its effects by subtraction of the dominant colour sensation , and not by directly increasing the complementary .
Spectral blue does not appear brighter after colour adaptation to yellow .
The Transmission of Environmental Effects from Parent to Offspring in Simocephalus vetulus .
By W. E. Agar , Glasgow University .
( Communicated by Prof. J. Graham Kerr , F.R.S. Received October 15 , 1912 , \#151 ; Read January 23 , 1913 .
) ( Abstract .
) In a common daphnid , Simocephalus vetulus , the effects of environment ( in its widest sense ) on one generation may persist on generations removed from that environment , the phenomenon being clearly a case of " parallel induction " ( Detto ) .
Three main experiments were carried out , in addition to a number of experiments on related problems in the biology of the animal .
Experiment A.\#151 ; The character dealt with was the ratio between the total length of the new-born individual and the width between the ventral edges of the valves of the carapace .
When the animals are fed with certain protophyte cultures , the valves become rolled back in a curious way , so that in transverse section the animal is bell-shaped instead of oval , and the body appendages , instead of being nearly concealed by the carapace , are fully exposed .
The distance between the edges of the valves is enormously increased , and thus the ratio length/ intervalvular width correspondingly decreased .
Experiment B.\#151 ; The character dealt with was the length of the new-born 116 On the Transmission of Environmental Effects .
animal , influenced by temperature .
The length is least when the temperature is highest .
Experiment C.\#151 ; Dealing with the same character as Experiment B , influenced by certain food cultures .
In the case of A and B it was found that the characters in question were acquired ontogenetically .
That is to say , normal specimens were placed in the protophyte culture or high temperature soon after birth , and at maturity showed respectively reflexed valves or smaller size , compared with controls .
Animals thus rendered abnormal were removed , from the stimulating environment into normal control conditions with their eggs ripe for laying .
From these eggs , which only underwent their ovarian growth under the abnormal conditions , developed broods ( Fi ) showing their parent 's abnormality very strongly marked .
In later broods from the same parents still living in control conditions , the abnormality appeared in rapidly diminishing degree .
The next generation ( F2 ) showed a very slight persistence of the abnormality , but F3 a very pronounced reaction in the opposite direction .
In all cases the effects were estimated by comparison with contemporary controls living under similar conditions .
Over 3000 specimens were measured in Experiments A and B and all were members of the same pure line , all descended by parthenogenesis from the same original female .
In 0 fewer specimens were used , and those were not known to belong to the same pure line .
, From the general results of the experiments it is concluded that in these cases the environment produces its visible effects on the soma by altering the metabolic products included in the protoplasm .
These products influence the development of the soma , causing reflexion of the carapace , smallness of size , etc. Being also present in the germ plasm , they are passed passively by the gamete into the developing soma of the next generation , and influence it in the same way .
Gradually the protoplasm produces antibodies to these toxin-like inclusions , and the reaction seen in F3 is brought about .

