346 Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Physiology of [ June 2 IY .
" The Physiology of Sugar in relation to the Blood.\#151 ; No. 2 ' By F. W. Pavy , M.D. , F.B.S. Received June 21,1877 .
In my communication read at the last Meeting of the Society ; described a gravimetric process of analysis adapted for the quantitati determination of sugar in blood and such like organic products .
T1 process , after a little practice , is easy of application , and with prop care in manipulation admits of great accuracy being attained .
I purpot , in this communication , giving results obtained by its means , showing\#151 ; ( 1 ) The amount of sugar existing naturally in the blood ; ( 2 ) The comparative states of arterial and venous blood ; ( 3 ) The spontaneous change ensuing after the removal of blood fro the system .
From the rapid and marked manner in which the amount of sugar the blood becomes influenced by altered states of the system , it is nece sary that certain precautions should be strictly observed in order to obta a representation of the natural condition .
From what I have said upi former occasions it will be evident that if the blood is collected f examination during life , the animal must be at the time in a perfect natural or tranquil state , and , if after death , the opportunity must not given for the post mortem change occurring in the liver to exert its infl ence upon the contents of the circulatory system .
Subjoined are given three series of results illustrative of the amou : of sugar existing naturally in the blood of the dog , sheep , and bulloc In two of the series six and in the other seven observations are supplie and it is hardly necessary to remark that they represent observations tak\lt ; just as they happened to present themselves .
In every observation tv separate analyses of the sample of blood were made .
The results obtain* in each are stated , and the mean taken as representing the amount\#171 ; sugar present .
The blood from the dog ( in Observations 1 to 6 ) was obtained by pithii* the animal and instantly inserting a scalpel into the chest and free incising the heart and large vessels .
The chest was then quickly open* and the blood dipped out and treated for analysis before coagulation ha occurred .
In Observation 7 the blood was obtained by division of tl jugular vein instantaneously after the process of pithing .
So quick !
does sugar in quantity find its way from the liver into the blood afte pithing has been performed , that it is necessary the steps of the opera tion of collection should be carried out with the utmost speed .
The blood from the sheep was obtained from animals slaughtered fc consumption as food , the mode of killing being that commonly practised viz. passing a knife through the neck and dividing the vessels .
Tb results represent the condition of the first portion of the blood tho -j Sugar in relation to the Blood .
34 aped , and the time elapsing between the collection and the commence-rttt of the analysis did not exceed a quarter of an hour .
As coagula had taken place , the clot was snipped into fine pieces with a pair of cjsors , and a fair sample of the whole thus taken .
[ n the case of the bullock the blood was obtained from the Jewish vthod of slaughtering , which consists of drawing a sharp knife across l neck and cutting through all the soft structure down to the vertebral ( umn .
It is arterial blood that is thus yielded .
Owing to the distance ( the slaughter-house from my laboratory one hour elapsed between the the of collection and the commencement of the analysis .
Blood from Dog .
Sugar per 1000 parts .
Observation 1 ... ... ... ..| j *758 } " 751 ( mean ) . . .
a ... ... ... ..jt ssj \#171 ; " 3 .
{ 1 \#187 ; } . . . .
* ... ..In-ft flS}'.1* . .
\#171 ; ... ... ... ... .it . .
6 ... ... ... ... .it in } -\#171 ; '3 . .
" 7 .
{ t X } -921 Average ... ... ... .
'787 per 1000 .
Blood from Sheep .
Sugar per 1000 parts .
Observation 8 ... ... ... ... ... j j ' j '470 ( mean ) .
\#166 ; \#187 ; a- ... ... ... ... ... .
: ... .jt -S } .49 ' . . . .
W. ... ... ... ... .it S } -617 . . .
u ... ... ... ... ... it si *9. .
" 12 .
... ... ... ... ... jt 3 " } -669 , 13- ... ... ... ... -ft S } 626 V *521 per 1000 .
Average Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Physiology of [ June 2\ Blood from Bullock .
Sugar per 1000 parts .
Observation 14 ... ... ... -709 } '70S ( mean ) . . .
I\#174 ; - ... ... ... ... S\#174 ; } .\#171 ; * - - '\#171 ; .
{ \#163 ; *5 } . .
17 ... ... ... -{\#163 ; " . .
\#187 ; { t *\#187 ; } .
-4 " \#187 ; \#187 ; 19 ... ... ... ... ..{\#163 ; 18 } .* " Average ... ... ... . .
'643 per 1000 .
In the above experiments the blood was collected in such a manner a to give a reliable representation of the state existing during life ; and i is necessary to bestow attention upon this point , for unless the prope : precautions from a physiological point of view are observed , we may bt led as much into error as by the faulty method of analysis .
This is strikingly exemplified by the following analyses of the blood of bullock obtained by the ordinary process of slaughtering ; that is , by the anima being felled with a pole-axe , a cane being then passed down the spina canal to destroy the medulla oblongata and spinal marrow , and blooc being afterwards allowed to escape by an incision from the neck into the superior vena cava , or possibly the right auricle of the heart .
I gave instructions to my assistant to get the incision made as soon as possible after the animal was felled .
The first day the samples of blood of twc bullocks ( Observations Nos. 20 and 21 ) were procured for analysis , the same time elapsing between the period of collection and the commencement of the analysis as in the instances belonging to the other method of slaughtering .
On the following day samples from two more bullocks ( Observations Nos. 22 and 23 ) were procured in a similar way .
The results derived from the blood obtained the first day do not differ to a material extent ( strictly speaking , the sugar is a little higher ) from those displayed above .
The blood obtained on the second day , however , showed a notably larger impregnation with sugarand this difference , I have reason to believe , arose from a longer time having been allowed to elapse \#171 ; between felling the animal and making the incision for the blood to escape* Sugar in relation to the Blood .
I ?
* .
] Blood obtained from the Bullock slaughtered by the pole-axe .
Sugar per 1000 parts .
Observation 20 ... ... ... | | *596 ( mean ) .
.21- - ... ... ..{ ?
: 11 } -e\#174 ; 8 . .
" 22 .
... ... ... ..{6 .
1-070 } 1058 .\gt ; \#187 ; 23 ... ... ... ..{tiw}'1094 \#187 ; From the above results the conclusion may be drawn that the amount \lt ; sugar naturally existing in the blood of the sheep and bullock is , making roundly , half per 1000 , or 1 part in 2000 , and in the dog | per 00 , or 1| part in 2000 .
There is a remarkable uniformity , looking at a results as a whole , in the constitution of the different samples .
In rnard 's observations there is a striking want of uniformity , and he ices his lowest limit at 1 per 1000 , and says that in the normal state a amount of sugar varies from 1 to 3 per 1000 ( ' Comptes Eendus/ 76 , p. 1409 ) .
In my observations upon the dog I have purposely varied the time of llecting the blood in relation to the period of taking food , but have not and that any difference is noticeable whether the collection is made a w hours after food or after an interval of 24 hours .
In all the cases e animals have been kept , whilst under my notice , upon a purely animal et .
The comparative state of arterial and venous blood possesses a bearing the deepest physiological importance , and Bernard has given results nived from the application of his process which tend to show that an ctensive disappearance of sugar takes place whilst the blood is passing *om the arterial to the venous system .
In the ' Comptes Bendus ' .
lxxxiii .
no. 6 , p. 373 ) five observations are given referring to the lood of the crural artery and vein , and three to the carotid and jugular , here is great discordancy in the results of the different observations , a one instance , where the least difference is noticeable , the figures stand TOO part per 1000 for the arterial blood and 1*080 for the venous .
In he instance of greatest difference the figures are 1*510 per 1000 for the rterial and *950 for the venous , and this relates to the carotid artery and he jugular vein .
The mean difference between arterial and venous blood , Irawn from all the observations , is *300 part per 1000 ; and if this repre-ented the truth it would undoubtedly imply , as is urged by Bernard , hat a sufficient destruction of sugar occurs to harmonize with his glycolic theory .
My own observations , however , supply strikingly antagonistic evidence ; ^d , looking at Bernard 's results , I am forced to the conclusion that Dr. F. W. Pavy on the Physiology of [ June they show a want of proper precaution in collecting the blood , as weli , s the effect of a fallacious method of analysis .
It is necessary that bb the physiology and chemistry belonging to the course of procedure sho d be free from sources of error ; and if the blood be collected directly afr the vessel has been cut down upon , it may be expected , as a result of effects of the operation upon the animal , to present a deviation from ^ natural state , and more so especially after the exposure of the carotid arte , on account of its deep situation and close contiguity to the pneumogasb nerve .
As I have stated , it is between the blood of the carotid artu and jugular vein that the greatest disparity was noticed by Bernard , 1 } difference in one case amounting to *560 part per 1000 , which is actual a larger proportion of sugar than what I have found exists naturally i the blood of the sheep and bullock .
I will mention the course of procedure I have myself adopted to obts a true representation of arterial and venous blood in a natural state , a give the results of the analysis of the samples .
Experience has shov that the effect of anaesthetics is to occasion a preternatural amount sugar in the blood .
To strictly attain , therefore , the object in view it necessary that the collection of blood should not be made whilst t animal is under their influence .
In my first experiment I was under the necessity , on account of tl restrictions of the Yivisection Act , of collecting the blood instantly aft the destruction of life .
Pithing was performed , and instantaneous afterwards an incision was made across the jugular vein on the one hai and the crural artery on the other .
These vessels were selected fro their convenient situation for the expeditious performance of the oper tion in a manner to admit of the respective kinds of blood being obtain* in a pure or unmixed state .
The following are the results of the analys of the counterpart samples of each .
It will be seen that the amount \lt ; sugar in the blood corresponds with what I have before represented t naturally present , thus showing that no time was given between tl period of pithing and collection for the influence of post mortem chang in the liver to be exerted .
Sugar per 1000 parts .
Crural artery .
Jugular rein .
t -791 } -795 ( mean ) .
\#163 ; ||\#174 ; } '792 ( mean ) . .
Four days ago the legal restriction I was before labouring under wa removed , and time has just been allowed previous to the termination o the present session of the Royal Society for the performance of two ex periments , in which the blood was collected under natural condition during life .
In these two experiments ether was administered to remov fftoi sensibility during the exposure of the carotid artery and jugular vein .
Th k animals were then allowed to remain for an hour and a half to recovei Sugar in relation to the Blood .
77 .
] f m the unnatural state induced by the anaesthetic .
Without occasion-j- any disturbance of tranquillity the two vessels were now drawn for- , rd by means of loose threads which had been placed around them , and ( 3nings made to allow of the escape of blood .
The respective specimens ( blood were thus collected at the same moment ; and , before coagulation }d time to occur , the process of analysis was commenced .
The following ire the results obtained :\#151 ; Sugar per 1000 parts .
Carotid artery .
Jugular vein .
a. *8061 on / \ b. -817/ 811 ( mean ) .
b. -788 } -798 ( mean ) .
o. '8541 .qoq b. -873/ " a. -8631 b. -896/ .879 " I must allow these results to speak for themselves .
The circumstances lave alluded to have prevented my obtaining a larger number for this mmunication .
Taking the evidence as it stands , it is not clearly appa-at that any decided difference exists in the amount of sugar contained spectively in arterial and venous blood .
More observations , however , all be made , and the results communicated at a later period .
Mean-lile , it may be confidently looked upon as settled that Bernard 's repre-otation is shown to be erroneous .
I have now to refer to the spontaneous change ensuing in the blood ter removal from the system .
Bernard , in his recent writings ( Comptes endus , 19 Juin , 1876 , p. 1406 ) has drawn attention to this subject , and presents the rate of disappearance of sugar to be such as to give weight his results regarding the extent of destruction alleged to occur in the stemic capillaries during life , contending , as he does , that the ortem phenomena observed , both as regards sugar-formation and sugar-'8truction , stand as representations of the natural actions of life .
The 'Howing is the record he has given of the results derived from an ana-sis of a sample of blood at different periods on a warm summer 's day:\#151 ; Sugar per 1000 .
Analyzed immediately ... ... ... ... ... 1'070 " after 10 minutes ... ... ... ... . .
1010 " after 30 minutes ... ... ... ... .
'880 i , after 5 hours ... ... ... ... ... .
'440 " after 24 hours ... ... ... ... ... .
'000 -^he results derived from the observations conducted in my laboratory dth the gravimetric process of analysis furnish evidence of a very different mature .
Subjoined are the particulars relating to five observations made luring the present year at the dates mentioned .
2b VOL. XXVI .
352 Physiology of Sugar in relation to the Blood .
[ June 2 January 29th .
Taken immediately After 1 hour f a. -u Sugar per .7971 .776/ .
1000 parts .
.786 ( mean ) .
.739 .
April 25 th .
Taken immediately f a. ."U .7061 .694/ .700 99 After 1 hour fa .
."U .6811 .660/ .670 99 May 18^ .
Taken immediately f a. -u .7701 .762/ .766 99 After 1 hour f a. ."U .7651 .738/ .751 99 After 23 hours .2801 .291/ .285 99 May 24 th .
Taken immediately f a. .7771 .795/ .786 99 After 1 hour f a. -H .7311 .726/ .728 99 After 24 hours f a. -u .3211 .283/ .302 99 May 26 th .
Taken immediately After If hours / a. -\b .
.9321 .910/ .921 .793 .
99 The gradual destruction of sugar shown by the above observations t occur after the removal of blood from the system is nothing more tha : - a confirmation of what has been known for many years to take place .
J communication presented by me to the Eoyal Society in 1855 , and put lished in abstract in vol. vii .
of the ' Proceedings/ contains the foliowin remarks :\#151 ; " Under the changes of the decomposition of blood , norma animal glucose is very readily metamorphosed .
The rapidity of the me tamorphosis depends on the activity of the decomposition of the anima substances present , and when the destruction of the sugar is complete , th blood has assumed an acid reaction .
This acid reaction of decomposin ; blood is only observable in that which was previously pretty largely im pregnated with sugar .
It appears to be owing to the formation of lacti acid ... ... The disappearance of sugar is more rapid where the fibrin ant corpuscles are present than when the serum is exposed alone j and ii accordance with this the blood , in the one case , undergoes decompositioi much sooner than in the other .
" Thus as far back as 22 years ago I directed attention to the phenomena 1 here referred to .
The phenomenon constitutes a change , the occurrenct .
of which , from the known properties of sugar , might be looked for undei : the circumstances .
Taken by itself it implies nothing physiologically but simply stands in subordinate relation to the physiological position 1 shown by other evidence to exist .
]77 .
] Prof. J. Tyndall on Ferments and Germs .
353 The conclusion to which the evidence contained in this communication I ds is that if the gravimetric application of the copper test used in the r ustomed manner is to be accepted as affording trustworthy information wh reference to the quantitative determination of sugar , and I confi-dtly submit that it is , the results which Bernard has obtained by the ( jerimental modus operandi he has been recently employing are shown j be seriously fallacious .
The results being fallacious , his inferences ust be looked upon as correspondingly in error .
, " Note on Dr. Burdon Sanderson 's latest Views of Ferments and Germs .
" By J. Tyndall , D.C.L. , LL. D. , F.R.S. Received June 21 , 1877 .
While writing the paper which the Council of the Royal Society has cently done me the honour of accepting for the Philosophical Transacts , the abstract of a lecture delivered by Dr. Burdon Sanderson to the ssociation of Medical Officers of Health was placed in my hands .
The teem in which the author 's name is justly held will certainly give eight and currency to the views enunciated in this lecture .
Speaking : ferments Dr. Sanderson says :\#151 ; " In defining the nature of ferment ition we are in a dilemma , out of which there is no escape except by raipromise .
A. ferment is not an organism , because it has no structure .
\#166 ; \lt ; is not a chemical body , because when it acts upon other bodies it main-tins its own molecular integrity .
On the whole , it resembles an organism tuch more than it resembles a chemical body , for its characteristic beha-.our is such as , if it had a structure , would prove it to be living .
Ten ears ago the opponents of spontaneous generation were called Pansper-usts , because it was supposed that in the so-called generatio equivoca , in very case in which Bacteria appeared to spring out of nothing , the result 'as referable to the influence of unseen but actually existing germs .
The ssearches of the last few years have carried us beyond this stage ... .
the uter line of defence , represented by the aphoristic expression omne ivv/ m ex ovo , has been for some time abandoned .
The ground which the rthodox biologist holds now , as against the heterodox , is not that every bacterium must have been born of another Bacterium , but that every Bac-irium must have been born of something which emanated from another bacterium , that something not being assumed to be endowed with structure in the morphological or anatomical sense , but only in the molecular t chemical sense .
It is admitted by all , even by Professor Tyndall , that , o far as structure is concerned , the germinal or life-producing matter out \gt ; \#163 ; which Bacteria originate exhibits no characters which , can be appreciated by the microscope ; and other researches have proved that the Seminal matter is capable of resisting destructive influences , particularly those of high temperature , which are absolutely fatal to the Bacteria 2b 2

