II .
" Description of the Skull and Teeth of the Placodus laticeps , Ow .
, with indications of other new Species of Placodus , and evidence of the Saurian Nature of that Extinct Genus .
" By Prof. RICHARD OWEN , F.R.S. &amp;c. Received February 6 , 1858 .
( Abstract .
) The author premises a brief sketch of the history of the discovery of the fossils referred by Count Miinster , Professors Agassiz , Bronn , and Meyer to the Pycnodont family of Ganoid Fishes , under the generic name of Placodus ; and then enters upon the anatomical grounds on which he concludes that the Placodus is a Saurian reptile .
These are stated to be , principally , --l , distinct external bony nostrils , divided by an ascending process of the premaxillary , and bounded by that bone , the maxillaries and nasals ; 2 , orbits circumscribed below by the superior maxillary and malar bones ; 3 , temporal fossae of great size and width , bounded externally by two zygomatic arches , the upper formed by the postfrontal and mastoid , the lower formed by the malar and squamosal ; 4 , the tympanic bone formed by one bony piece , with a trochlear lower articular surface ; the limitation of the teeth to the premaxillary , maxillary , palatine , and pterygoid bones , in the upper jaw , with a demonstrated absence of a median vomerine series , such as exists in the true Pycnodonts .
With these proofs of the reptilian nature of the Placodus , Prof. Owen combines others exemplifying its affinities to the Lacertian order , and more especially with that modification of Lacertia exemplified by the extinct genus Simosaurus , from the Muschelkalk .
The author then describes the dentition of the upper jaw of the specimen of Placodus , demonstrating the foregoing characters .
It includes two premaxillary and three maxillary teeth , forming an outer or marginal series , and two teeth of larger size , forming an inner or palatal series , the last of which is described as the largest grinding tooth in proportion to the size of the head , hitherto known in the animal kingdom .
From the cranial and dental characters the author deduces the specific distinction of his specimen from previously described Placodi , and proposes for it the name of Placodus laticeps , in reference to the great breadth of the skull , which equals the entire length , each measuring about 8 inches .
All the teeth are implanted in distinct sockets , according to the thecodont type of the Lacertian order .
The relation of the large temporal fossEe and of the wide span of the zygomatic arches , to the enormous muscular force required to work the crushing machinery of the jaws , is pointed out .
The structure of the bony nostrils , the orbits , the palate , with other particulars of the cranial anatomy of the Placodus , is next described in detail , and compared with the same characters in Nothosaurus , Simosaurus , Pistosaurus , and other Muschelkalk reptiles .
The dentition of these Saurians , although , like Placodus , thecodont in respect of implantation , is of the ordinary crocodilian type in respect of form , adapted to the prehension of fishes ; and there are no palatal teeth .
But the author remarks that such teeth exist in the triassic Labyrinthodonts , with a disproportionate magnitude of certain teeth which offers a certain analogy with the dentition of Placodus .
An account of the microscopic structure of the dentine , enamel , and osseous tissue of the Placoduts is then given .
The extreme and peculiar modification of the teeth , in respect to form and size , adapting them to the crushing and pounding of hard substances , and the association of the Placodus with conchiferous mollusks in such abundance as to have suggested the terms 'Muschelkalk , ' 'Terebratuliten-kalk , ' and the like , for the strata containing them , concur in evincing the class whence the Placodi derived their chief subsistence ; and the author points out the relation of a constant disposition of the teeth , in all the known species , to the readier cracking of shelly substance .
A single row of teeth in the lower jaw is always opposed to a double row in the upper one , playing , with its strongest line of force , upon their interspace .
Thus the crushing force below presses upon a part between the two points of resistance above , on the sane principle on which a stick is broken across the knee ; only here the fulcrum is at the intermediate point , the moving powers at the two parts grasped by the hands .
It is obvious that a shell pressed between two opposite flat surfaces might resist the strongest bite ; but , subjected to alternate points of pressure , its fracture is facilitated .
Certain Australian lizards present teeth with large rounded obtuse crowns , like those of certain Placodi , and have on that account received the name of Cyclodus , for their genus .
The author next proceeds to describe certain specimens of the mandible or under jaw of the genus Placodus .
The first of these he refers to a species for which he proposes the name of Placodus pachygnathus .
The second may probably be the lower jaw of the Placodus Andriani , Ag .
; but should it prove to belong to a different species , the term bombidens would best express the specific peculiarity in the shape of the grinding surface of the teeth .
A third species is named Placodus bathygnathus , in reference to the great vertical extent of the mandibular ramus .
All the above-described fossils are from the Muschelkalk member of the triassic series , near Bayreuth , Germany , and have been recently acquired for the Palasontological Series in the British Museum .
The Memoir is accompanied by numerous drawings .

