453 Scattering of Light by Dust-free A , with Artificial Reproduction of the Blue Sky.\#151 ; Preliminary Note .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.R.S. , Professor of Physics , Imperial College , South Kensington .
( Received February 12 , 1918 .
) [ Plate 4 .
] It is now well established* that the luminosity and blue colour of the sky on very clear days and at considerable altitudes above the sea-level can almost be accounted for by the scattering of light by the molecules of air , without postulating suspended particles of foreign matter , such as were thought necessary by the earlier writers .
This conclusion depends on the measured opacity ot ' the atmosphere , deduced from observations such as those of Abbot and Fowlef of the sun 's radiation at various zenith distances .
The opacities measured at Mount Wilson for different wave-lengths are found to be nearly in agreement with what would be expected if scattering by the molecules were alone operative ; leaving little room for the action of larger particles .
I have not been able to find any reference in the later literature to the possibility of observing in the laboratory the scattering of light by pure air , filtered free from dust .
Tyndall , who devoted more attention to such questions than any other experimenter of his day , states that nothing of the kind can be observed .
He says : " I , at that time ( 1872 ) , found that London air , which is always thick with motes , and also with matter too fine to be described as motes , after it had been filtered by passing through densely packed cotton wool ... .
showed , when examined by a concentrated luminous beam , no trace of mechanically suspended matter .
The particular portion of space occupied by such a beam was not to be distinguished from adjacent space .
" " The purely gaseous portion of our atmosphere was thus shown to be incompetent to scatter light , and as far as I have been able to learn it has generally been supposed , perhaps in view of Tyndall 's statement just quoted , that very great thicknesses of air would have to be illuminated before the scattered light would be appreciable .
Certainly such was my own notion .
* See Lord Rayleigh , ' Phil. Mag. , ' vol. 47 , p. 375 ( 1899 ) ; Schuster , ' Nature , ' vol. 81 , p. 97 ( 1909 ) , or Schuster 's ' Optics , ' 2nd ed. , p. 328 ( 1909 ) .
+ ' Annals of the Astropliysical Observatory of the Smithsonian Institution , ' vol. 2 , 1908 .
X ' Phil. Trans. , ' vol. 166 , p. 27 ( 1876 ) .
454 Hon. K. J. Strutt .
Scattering of Light by Dust-free I was first led to question this by noticing that the searchlights used for anti-aircraft purposes , both in town and country , always exhibit a distinct scattering along their track , even on the clearest nights , and high above the ground level .
When the air is very clear , the track of the beam is comparatively faint , and of a bluish colour .
But it is always perfectly easy to see .
This , though suggestive , does not , of course , definitely prove that the observed scattering is independent of dust .
The following simple considerations show , however , that the scattering of light by pure air should be within the range of laboratory experiment .
The brightness of the clear sky in sunlight may be estimated at 550,000 times its value in full moonlight , since that is the comparative photometric value of the sun and the moon .
If , instead of 5 miles " of homogeneous atmosphere " illuminated by the sun , we substitute a layer l/ 550000th part of this , or 058 inch thick , the intensity should be equal to that of the moonlit sky .
It is easy to arrange conditions at least as good as this in the laboratory , whether sunlight or arc-light is used ; and , therefore , the scattered light , like the light of the moonlit sky , should be quite bright enough for observation .
In arranging an experiment for this purpose , the chief essential was to avoid as far as possible stray light diffused from the wall of the vessel used , and to observe the beam transversely against the blackest possible background .
The source of light was a hand-regulated carbon arc , taking about 12 amperes .
A quartz condenser ( used on account of its transparency to blue and violet light ) was adjusted to give a convergent beam .
This , passed through a quartz water-cell to take out heat rays , then into the experimental vessel .
The latter was in the form of a cross , constituted of brass tubing If inch diameter , as shown in the figure ( drawn to half size ) .
The interior was dead black .
The light entered by the quartz window A and passed on through the rectangular diaphragm B to the far end , where it was stopped by the closed end of the tube .
The beam was observed through the glass window D. The side piece E constituted a black cave , and the mouth of it afforded the necessary background against which a feeble transverse luminosity of the beam would stand out well.* In spite of all precautions , enough light was diffused by the walls of the tube to enclose this black background in a luminous ring , which , however , was not bright enough to cause * The vessel used by Tyndall\#151 ; a cylindrical glass tube of 3 inches diameter with the beam passing axially along it\#151 ; would not , I feel sure , give a black enough background to make it possible to detect the scattering of dust-free air .
In saying this it is not intended to depreciate his work , which at the time marked an important advance .
i Air , mth Artificial Reproduction of the Blue 455 inconvenience .
The beam passed diametrically across this luminous ting ) which is seen in all the photographs .
For photography , the lens F , of 6 cm .
focal length , was arranged to form an image on a sensitive plate held in an ordinary camera , h 01 \ isual observation , the plate holder was removed , and the image viewed with an eyepiece of 3 cm .
focal length .
This moderate magnification was found to be of considerable advantage , though , of course , it does not increase the intiinsic brightness of the scattered light .
LENS WATER CELL PLATE With ordinary untreated air in the apparatus , a very bright track due to scattering by the dust particles was observed .
Passing a current of air dried by phosphorus pentoxide , and filtered by cotton wool , the dust particles became fewer .
It took a little time to get rid of them , because the shape of the vessel was unfavourable for a wash through of air .
After a few minutes , however , the dust particles became so scarce that they could only be seen occasionally crossing the track , and they soon vanished entirely .
At this stage there was a blue track along the beam , which , though much fainter than the original dusty track , was visible without difficulty when the vol. xciv.\#151 ; A. 2 n 456 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Scattering of Light by Dust-free eyes had been rested in the dark .
It was much bluer than the original dust track , which latter was about the same colour as the arc , and also much bluer than the ring of light scattered by the walls of the vessel , which has been mentioned above .
This faint blue track could be well photographed in 1 minute on a rapid plate with aperture about / / Photograph No. 1 ( Plate 4 ) was taken on an ordinary plate , using a filter transparent only to the ultra-violet ( nitrosodimethylaniline with cobalt glass ) .
No. 2 was taken with an isochromatic plate and yellow screen .
It will be observed how much stronger the image is relative to the walls of the vessel in the former case .
This pair of photographs shows objectively what was seen visually in the blue colour of the beam contrasting with the yellow colour of the surrounding ring of light due to the vessel .
At this point it is important to concentrate attention on the question of whether dust had really been got rid of , and whether the effects described were not really due \#163 ; o very fine dust .
Special attention was paid to this question .
In the first place , no loss of brightness in the scattered light could be observed when the air was more elaborately filtered .
A tube 2 inches wide and 4 feet long , tightly packed with cotton-wool , was used .
But this gave exactly the same result as a much smaller and shorter filtering tube .
It made no difference whether the air current was slow or fast ; nor did passage of the current of filtered air for several hours induce any further change .
The air current was driven by pressure , not by suction .
If there was any slight leak in the apparatus , filtered air may have passed out , but dusty air could not pass in .
It did not matter whether the air was dried or not .
As an additional precaution to remove dust , Aitken 's method was resorted to .
The experimental vessel above described containing filtered air , with some water on the bottom , was connected with a gasholder , also containing filtered air under a pressure of 15 inches of water .
The connection was closed , and the experimental vessel opened for a moment to the atmosphere .
At first , a somewhat sparse cloud was observed when this was done , showing that some dust particles had escaped the filter , or had lurked in one of the blind alleys of the apparatus .
After repeated expansion the water drops visible in the beam were reduced to a very small number , five or ten , and , finally , they were got rid of altogether .
But this additional purification was not observed to reduce the scattered light .
When the vessel was exhausted , the blue track disappeared , nothing * * The aberrations of a single lens working at that aperture are great , but the images were good enough for the present purpose .
i Air , with Artificial Reproduction of the Blue Sky .
457 f remaining except the .
above-mentioned ring of light diffused by the vessel .
Re-admitting filtered air , the blue track re-appeared exactly as before .
These various tests and precautions seem to prove beyond doubt that the observed scattering was not due to dust surviving imperfect filtration , or to any false light , but that it is a property of pure air .
Its intensity is of the order of magnitude to be expected.* The bare possibility remained , however , that what had been observed was a fluorescence of the air rather than the anticipated scattering .
The most direct test of this would be a spectroscopic examination of the scattered light , and a two hours ' exposure brought out faintly the great cyanogen band at A , 388 , which is photographically the most conspicuous feature of the carbon arc spectrum .
It was not convenient to give longer exposures with the carbon arc , which requires constant attention , and a special arrangement was set up , using a powerful quartz-mercury lamp made by the Westinghouse-Cooper-Hewitt Company .
The beam from the lamp broadside on was concentrated to a quartz condenser , which latter was set air-tight in the entrance to a special chamber made of cardboard , and in essential design similar to the much smaller brass apparatus of the figure .
The cardboard vessel was made as dust-proof as possible , and Tyndall 's device of covering the bottom with glycerine served in the course of a day or two to catch and remove the dust .
The spectrograph was connected air-tight to the vessel , without any intervening window , and it was pointed to the focus with its collimator tube parallel to the length of the lamp , and therefore looking through the greatest depth of luminous air .
In three days ' exposure the photograph No. 3 , Plate 4 , was obtained .
The spectrum below , No. 4 , is that of the lamp itself , with the exposure adjusted to give about the same intensity in the middle of the spectrum .
It will be noticed that the upper spectrum shows no signs of any constituent except the known mercury lines .
Thus the lateral emission is scattered light , not fluorescent light .
\#166 ; Secondly , it will be seen how far the intensity of the spectrum is shifted to the ultra-violet .
The visual lines of the lamp do not appear in the upper photograph at all , and the far ultraviolet lines are absent from the lower one.f This effect is of the same type as the blue colour of the sky , and is fully accounted for by the accepted theory .
Returning to the experiments with the carbon arc , the scattered beam in oxygen was indistinguishable in colour and intensity from that in air .
This * * I have further evidence that dust has nothing to do with the observed effects , but this will best be given with the quantitative measurement to be published later .
t They would of course come out with longer exposure .
458 Hon. R. J. Strutt .
Scattering of Light by Dust-free circumstance alone is almost enough to show that the light is not fluorescent .
The same colour was obtained from carbon dioxide , but the intensity was greater , perhaps double .
In hydrogen the scattered light was much fainter and difficult to see distinctly , unless the eye was very well rested in the dark beforehand .
Photographically , it came out plainly with five minutes ' exposure , and the intensity was not apparently inconsistent with a value \#163 ; that for air .
Finally , the test of polarisation has been applied , both visually and photographically .
Visual examination with a Nicol showed that the beam was invisible when the prism was held with its short diagonal horizontal .
Thus the vibrations were transverse to the direction of propagation , as in all cases of scattering by particles small compared with the wave-length .
For photography , a double image prism was mounted over the photographic lens .
The result is shown in photograph No. 5 , Plate 4 .
The approximately complete extinction of the beam in the lower image will be noticed .
This is the image in which the vibrations ( if any ) would be parallel to the length of the beam .
The intensity of the beam should not be compared with that of the ring of light scattered by the walls of the vessel , which is itself partly polarised and suffers something of the same changes as the beam when the prism is rotated .
The proper comparison is between the two images of the beam , or rather between the image and the absence of an image .
No. 6 , Plate 4 , corresponds to No. 5 just described , but was taken with the ordinary ( dusty ) air of the room , and the exposure was shorter .
In this case the scattered beam is much more intense , and is far indeed from being perfectly polarised .
Whether the polarisation in pure air and other gases is absolutely complete is an important question , which will be examined in a future paper .
All the results here described are in qualitative agreement with the received theory of scattering .
Quantitative measurements are in progress .
Summary .
( 1 ) By proper arrangement of the experimental conditions it is possible to observe the scattering of light by pure air , free of dust , in a small-scale laboratory experiment .
( 2 ) Similar results can be obtained with other gases .
Hydrogen gives much less scattering than air , oxygen about the same , carbon dioxide decidedly more .
( 3 ) The scattered light in air and in all the other gases is blue\#151 ; the blue \ I Air , with Artificial Reproduction of the Blue Sky .
459 of the sky , illustrating very directly the theory that attributes the blue of the sky to scattering by the molecules of air.* ( 4 ) The scattered light is almost completely polarised .
[ Note added April 19 , 1918.\#151 ; In examining the literature , I regret that I overlooked the importance of a paper by Cabannes ( ' Comptes Eendus , ' vol. 160 , p. 62 , January 11 , 1915 ) , though I had consulted a somewhat meagre abstract of it .
He detected the scattering by pure air , and made approximate measurements of its amount .
This paper has , however , been allowed to stand unaltered , as the method of treatment is independent , and several important points , such as the polarisation of the scattered light and the effect of different gases , are not mentioned by Cabannes .
DESCRIPTION OF PLATE , 1 .
Beam in dust-free air viewed transversely .
Ultra-violet filter .
The oval outline is light diffused by walls of vessel .
The beam is seen passing across this oval .
2 .
Similar conditions , except that a yellow filter is substituted .
Beam very much fainter relative to light diffused by walls of vessel .
3 .
Spectrum of light from mercury lamp scattered by dust-free air and showing ultraviolet lines 2536 and 2654 , but not the yellow and green lines .
4 .
Spectrum of mercury lamp direct , showing yellow line 5890 and green line 5460 , but not the far ultra-violet lines .
5 .
Beam in pure air through a double image prism .
Vibrations in upper image vertical , in lower horizontal .
The beam is invisible in the lower image , showing that polarisation of the scattered light is nearly complete .
6 .
Similar photograph with dusty air .
The beams are very strong , and comparable in intensity .
* Tyndall obtained the blue by means of fine-grained fogs , precipitated from organic vapours .
This was a valuable contribution , but his fogs were of course both chemically and physically very different from dust-free air .
The Formation of Nitrites from Nitrates in Aqueous Solution by the Action of Sunlight , and the Assimilation of the Nitrites by Green Leaves in Sunlight .
By Benjamin Mooee , D.Sc .
, F.E.S. Action of Light Rays on Organic and the Photosynthesis of Organic from Inorganic Compounds in Presence of Inorganic Colloids .
By Benjamin Mooee , D.Sc .
, F.E.S. , and T. A. Websteb .
[ These papers are published in Series B , No. 627 ; June 1 , 1918 .
] 2 o vol. xciv.\#151 ; A.

