1889 .
] Revision of the Atomic Weight of Gold .
71 Villari 's strained disk and Liidtge 's strained prism .
The disk was free from strain in the middle , the prism free from strain at the ends .
I have repeated Yillari 's experiment at the Cavendish Laboratory , using , at Mr. Glazebrook 's suggestion , an elliptic analyser to determine the magnetic rotation .
With the disk spinning about 200 times a second , the magnetic rotation was reduced from 10 ' to 6 ' .
This is not so great a diminution as Yillari observed , but his glass may have been softer and more easily strained .
Yillari thought that the effect he observed was due to the time required to magnetise the glass .
That this supposition was erroneous has been clearly established by the experiments of Bichat and Blondlot , recently repeated by Dr. Lodge .
In these experiments the oscillating discharge of a Leyden jar was found to rotate the plane of polarisation in time with the oscillations .
Before hearing of these results I had myself attacked the problem in a somewhat similar manner .
A coil of wire was wound round a piece of heavy glass , and a current alternated 250 times a second by a tuning-fork was sent through the coil .
The current was measured by a dynamometer and a tangent galvanometer .
The first gave the measure of the current independently of its sign , the second showed that the integral current was zero .
When the current was passing it was found impossible to extinguish the light , owing to the rapid alternations of the plane of polarisation .
In conclusion , I have to express my thanks to Professor Thomson and Mr. Glazebrook for many kind suggestions and encouragement , and especially to Professor Thomson for the privilege of using the Cavendish Laboratory .
II .
" Revision of the Atomic Weight of Gold .
" By J. W. Mallet , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the University of Virginia .
Received April 15 , 1889 .
( Abstract .
) After noticing and giving the results of the earlier determinations of the atomic weight of gold , and the recent researches of Kriiss and of Thorpe and Laurie , the author reports upon experiments of his own in the same direction , which have occupied much of his time and labour for the last three or four years .
The difficulties connected with the accurate determination of the atomic weight of this metal are remarked upon , and the general principles are reviewed which ought to be observed in all investigations of this kind .
The means and methods of weighing used are stated , and the preProf .
J. W. Mallet .
[ May 9 , cautions are described in detail which were resorted to in purifying the metallic gold to be employed in the research , with the history of some samples of " proof " and " trial plate " gold , obtained from the Mint establishments of the United States and England .
The general precautions observed in the course of the work are described , particularly the use of an arrangement for evaporating some of the gold solutions with exclusion of the organic matter of atmospheric dust .
A detailed account is given of the methods adopted in seven series of experiments , looking to more or less independent determinations of the atomic weight sought , viz.:\#151 ; First Series.\#151 ; Division of a uniform neutral solution in water of auric chloride into two accurately weighed and nearly equal portions ; precipitation from the one portion by sulphur dioxide of metallic gold , which was collected and weighed ; determination , with special pi'ecautions , of the quantity of metallic silver required , as nitrate , to precipitate the chlorine in the other portion .
Second Series.\#151 ; Similar treatment of a neutral solution of auric bromide , giving the quantity of g6ld in one portion , and the quantity of silver required to precipitate bromine in the other portion .
Third Series.\#151 ; Similar treatment of a solution of repeatedly crystallised potassium auri-bromide , again giving the quantity of gold in one portion , and the silver equivalent to the whole of the bromine in the other portion .
Fourth Series.\#151 ; Determination of the loss by ignition of a weighed quantity of trimethyl-ammonium auri-chloride .
Fifth Series.\#151 ; Comparison of the weights of gold and silver simultaneously deposited by the same electric current from aqueous solutions of auro-cyanide and argento-cyanide of potassium respectively .
Sixth Series.\#151 ; Comparison of the weight of gold deposited from a solution of potassium auro-cvanide on electrolysis with the volume of hydrogen liberated by the same current from dilute sulphuric acid , the hydrogen evolved in a voltameter of special construction , and measured of course under well-defined conditions of temperature and pressure .
Seventh Series.\#151 ; Determination of the volume of hydrogen , under known conditions of temperature and pressure , obtainable by solution in dilute sulphuric acid of a given quantity of specially purified metallic zinc ; use of a definite quantity of the same zinc , taken in small excess , to precipitate gold from a neutral solution of auric chloride , and determination of the quantity of metallic gold thrown down ; determination of the volume of hydrogen obtainable on solution in dilute sulphuric acid of the excess of zinc thus used .
Resulting comparison of the quantity of gold in solution as auric chloride with the quantity of hydrogen equivalent to the metal .
The results obtained are then stated as follows :\#151 ; 1889 .
] Revision of the Atomic Weight of Gold .
Atomic weight of gold .
First series ( 5 experiments ) Second " ( 6 " ) Third " ( 4 " ) Fourth " ( 5 " ) Fifth } , 15 " ) Sixth " ( 3 " ) Seventh " ( 6 " ) Average value from aggregate weights .
196 *823 197 137 196-897 Lowest value from a single experiment .
196-688 196- 731 196 -685 197- 131 196 -709 196-994 196 -848 Highest value from a single experiment .
196- 770 196 -843 196 -817 197 -289 196 -945 197- 283 196 -956 If the general mean be taken of the results of all these series of experiments , using the average value derived from each , and giving* all an equal weight , the number 196"910 is obtained for the atomic weight of gold .
But reasons are given for feeling much less confidence in the results of the fifth and sixth series of experiments ( made by electrolysis ) than in the rest ; if these two series be excluded the general mean becomes 196"882 .
A certain degree of suspicion as to possible constant error having been shown to perhaps alfect the results of the fourth series , if this also be left out , and only the first three and the seventh series be considered , the general mean will be 196"796 .
And finally , if , for the sake of comparison with the results of the recent researches of other chemists , only the first three series be included , in which auric chloride and bromide were examined , the general mean will be 196 " 762\#151 ; a result rather higher than that of Kriiss and lower than that of Thorpe and Laurie , but nearer to the latter than the former .
In conclusion , reference is made to the bearing of the results reached on Mendelejeff 's periodic classification of the elements , and on the hypothesis of Prout , and attention is drawn to the desirability of a general re-examination of atomic weights , not by a single method only in each case , or by methods more or less nearly similar or dependent on each other , resting satisfied with a close agreement of results under these conditions , but by as many distinct and independent methods as may be possible for each element examined .

