272 On the Accumulation oj Helium in Geological Time .
By the Hon. R. J. Strutt , F.RS .
( Received July 28 , 1908 .
) ( From Imperial College of Science , South Kensington .
) In a former paper* I gave an account of experiments on the presence of helium in a variety of the common minerals of the earth 's crust .
The conclusion arrived at was that the quantity of helium is , in general , determined by the traces of radio-active elements present .
The minerals investigated were mostly of palieozoic age , and little attention was paid to the effect of geological age on helium content .
If , however , the accepted theory of the progressive accumulation of helium in minerals by radio-active change is correct , it is evident that geological age must be all-important .
In the present paper , the subject is considered from that point of view .
There is some difficulty in finding suitable material for comparing the helium content of minerals with their geological age .
To make such a comparison advantageously , it is necessary to obtain minerals from a very great range of geological horizons , so that the oldest minerals considered shall be many times older than the youngest .
Thus it becomes imperative to get material from the secondary and tertiary strata .
Most of the constituents of these strata are unsuitable .
For instance , derivative materials like clay and sand must be rejected , because they have presumably been accumulating helium long before they were laid down in their present stratigraphical position .
The chemical precipitates like rocksalt and gypsum are so free from radio-active constituents that accurate measurements of the helium in them are very difficult ; while limestones are , in a lesser degree , open to the same objection .
In view of these difficulties , I have been fortunate in discovering that phosphatic nodules ( the so-called coprolites ) and phosphatised bones are extremely rich in radio-active constituents , sometimes containing 50 times as much radium as the generality of rocks .
These nodules and bones are found in a great variety of strata , from the pliocene downwards .
The nodules frequently contain , or consist of , fossils characteristic of the stratum to which they belong , or of one very little earlier ; thus their age is well defined .
The same remark applies still more to the mineralised bones .
There is no reason to doubt that the radio-active material was introduced into the bones by infiltration at the time that they became phosphatised ; and from that epoch the accumulation of helium must be dated .
* ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 80 , 1908 , p. 572 .
On the Accumulation of Helium in Geological Time .
273 In these experiments I have extracted the helium by solution of the powdered substance in hydrochloric acid .
The action takes place quite readily .
The apparatus used is shown in the figure .
To Pump s. for\ iloric The powdered mineral ( usually from .100 to 500 grammes ) is placed in the flask A , which is then sealed on to the rest of the apparatus .
The system of tubes is evacuated through stopcock F , and washed out with a little oxygen to secure more perfect removal of air .
Hydrochloric acid ( which has been well boiled , and closed up so as to cool in absence of air ) is then admitted through T. A violent effervescence of carbon dioxide follows .
The gas is allowed to flow into the pump through F , by means of which the flow is regulated .
On its way it traverses a bottle filled with soda lime , and in some cases a tube of hot copper oxide , followed by caustic potash .
By these reagents the bulk of the carbon dioxide is absorbed , as are also small quantities of combustible gases which accompany it .
A small residue , consisting chiefly of nitrogen , is collected through the pump .
When the flask A is three-quarters full of acid , and the effervescence is nearly over , the stopcocks Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ July 28 , F and T are closed , and A heated to boiling .
The gases expelled pass up into the top of B , while the lower portion is filled with steam , which condenses and runs back .
When boiling has gone on long enough to ensilre complete expulsion of the dissolved gas , the heat is increased , so that the outflow of steam exceeds what B can condense .
The gas then passes out at the lower end of C , where it is collected over mercury in D as shown .
It is followed by steam , which condenses and forms pistons in C. By removing D at the right moment it is easy to make an exact separation of the gas from the condensed water which follows it .
The gas collected in this way is added to that collected through the pump , and the inert constituents isolated by sparking with oxygen in the usual way .
The gas was examined and measured substantially as described in the former paper .
I have found that in practice it is much morfe difficult to avoid contamination with air when the material is dissolved in acid than when it is merely heated .
Thus argon was usually conspicuous in the spectrum of the inert residue ; and on cooling the charcoal neon was sometimes visible , when it was not masked by a large excess of helium .
Elaborate arrangements for boiling the acid in vacuo and admitting it without contact with the atmosphere would probably overcome this difficulty ; but it was not judged worth while to adopt them , as helium is readily isolated for measurement by the charcoal method .
The great advantage of dissolving the material rather than merely heating it is in the certainty of extracting all the helium .
In measuring quantities of helium less than a cubic millimetre , the method of sparking in a tube with sodium-potassium electrodes , followed by absorption with charcoal cooled in solid carbon dioxide , is inadequate .
It is found that even with no helium present in the original gas the residue after this treatment is a fraction ( say 1 / 3 ) of a cubic mm. It would seem that hydrogen , which is almost always present in discharge tubes , is not perfectly absorbed by the sodium-potassium electrodes , but exerts a kind of vapour pressure .
This hydrogen is not absorbed by charcoal at \#151 ; 80 ' C. By cooling the charcoal in liquid air , the residue ( in a blank experiment ) can be reduced below 1/ 100 cubic mm. It must he admitted that hydrogen was scarcely if at all visible in the spectrum of the discharge , when the tube had been run for some time .
However , in spite of this , I think the above explanation of the residue is the most probable that can be suggested .
When very small quantities of helium were to be measured , liquid air cooling was generally made use of .
In cases where no liquid air was at hand , and when the experiment did not appear to be worth pursuing further , the quantity of helium was recorded as a maximum only .
Badium was determined by the methods described in earlier papers .
The 1908 .
] Accumulation of Helium in Geological Time .
solution obtained in extracting helium was usually employed for the radium determination .
The uranium oxide percentage was calculated from the radium observations , by standardisation with a uranium mineral .
It will be observed that this method does not involve a knowledge of the ratio of uranium to radium in minerals , but only assumes its constancy .
The results may be tabulated as follows :\#151 ; Material .
Locality .
Geological horizon .
Helium , c.mm .
per 100 grammes .
U308 , grammes per 100 grammes .
Helium , c.c. per gramme of u3o8 .
hosphatised shark 's Florida Pliocene 0174 2 -48 x10 " ' 0 -0070 teeth hosphatised Cetacean Felixstowe Pliocene Red Crag 0-158 1 -55 x 1(P2 0 -0102 bones hosphatic nodules n 0-098 4 -78 x 10-3 0 -0205 a ) ) Cambridge Upper Greensand 3-03 1 -08 x10-2 0-281 J ) 3 ) Potton , Bedfordshire Lower Greensand 2T0 5-83xl0-3 0-360 hosphatised Saurian Ely Kimmeridge Clay \lt ; 0-365 3 -28 x 10-3 \lt ; 0 111 bones \lt ; 6-094 hosphatic nodules Knap well , Cambs .
Base of Kimmeridge Clay Oxford Clay \lt ; 0-675 7 20 x10-3 hosphatised Saurian hAr\#187 ; pc Whittlesea \lt ; 0-51 9 -15 x 10-4 \lt ; 0-558 UvJJLLUo hosphatic bone frag- Lyme Regis Rhsetic bone bed \lt ; 0-22 2 -15 x 10-3 \lt ; 0 '102 ments taematite Frizington , by Carnforth , Cumberland Above carboniferous limestone 16 -5 1 -28 x 10-3 12-9 hosphatic nodules Kear Bala Bala beds 15 -3 3 -23 x lCT3 4-74 hosphatic limestone ... Chirbury , Shropshire Llandeilo limestone 5 -6 7 -90 x 10- " 7-10 hosphatic nodules Cailleach Head , Loch Broom Torrid on Sandstone 0-83 9 -9 x 10^ 0-84 It will be at once noticed that the order of stratigraphical position is not accurately followed .
For example , the phosphatic nodules and bones from the Kimmeridge Clay do not show so high a helium ratio as those from the Lower or Upper Greensand , though they are geologically older than either .
At the same time it will be noticed that helium ratios approaching 12 , such as are common in the mineral veins of carboniferous age in Cornwall , are not met with in the younger strata.* The facts are most easily explained by supposing that the retention of helium has been often if not always imperfect .
One point remains to be referred to .
If thorium were present in any of these materials we might expect it to have a disturbing influence , as an * Examples will be found in ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' A , vol. 80 , p. 573 .
I have not reprinted the values here , as they were only obtained by the crude method of heating the minerals .
This , however , suffices to give the order of magnitude .
Hon. R. J. Strutt .
[ July 28 , independent source of helium .
The most searching experiments I have been able to make have only suggested a faint suspicion of its presence in the phosphatic nodules and bones .
It can contribute nothing appreciable to their activity .
The same applies to Cumberland haematite ; in this case the results were still more distinctly negative .
I have included this mineral in the investigation as it is one of the few readily dissolved in hydrochloric acid .
There is , of course , a very large field of research open in accurately determining the helium ratio for other minerals such as the metallic sulphides , but I have not yet had leisure to give any attention to them .
Great interest will attach to determining the highest ratio to be found among minerals of Archaean age ; but here the presence of thorium enters as a complication .
The chief interest of the present results is in their application to the measurement of geological time .
For this application we require to know the rate at which helium is produced from 1 gramme of uranium with the equilibrium quantity of all the other products of the series .
No direct measurements of this have yet been made ; 1 believe , however , that such measurements are quite feasible , and hope eventually to supply them .
In the meantime it is interesting to calculate , as nearly as possible from indirect data , the time required for the accumulation of such quantities of helium as are found .
Professor Rutherford has kindly communicated to me his latest estimate .
It is that 316 cubic mm. of helium are produced per gramme of radium per annum .
This is deduced on the following assumptions :\#151 ; ( 1 ) The number of helium atoms produced is equal to the number of a-particles emitted .
( 2 ) For every four a-particles emitted by radium with its immediate products , two are emitted by uranium , one by ionium , and one by polonium .
I shall not enter on any discussion of the validity of these suppositions , beyond remarking that there are no definite grounds at present for deciding whether or not helium is liberated in the rayless changes .
Taking the ratio of radium to uranium in minerals as 3*4 x 10~7 , we get for the annual helium production per gramme of uranium oxide , ( U3O8 ) , in \amp ; mineral , 943 x 10-8 c.c. Adopting this rate of growth provisionally , the following ages are obtained as a minimum for some of the materials examined:\#151 ; Years .
Phosphatic nodules of the Crag ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 225,000 Phosphatic nodules of the Upper Greensand ... ... . .
3,080,000 Phosphatic nodules of the Lower Greensand ... ... . .
3,950,000 Haematite overlying carboniferous limestone ... .
141,000,000 1908 .
] Accumulation of Helium in Geological Time .
277 It must be emphatically repeated that these absolute values are provisional only .
I hope that geologists and others will not regard the method as discredited if it should be necessary to alter them considerably , when the rate of growth of helium has been directly determined .
The conclusions of this paper may be summarised as follows:\#151 ; 1 .
Phosphatic nodules and phosphatised bones of all geological ages possess marked radio-activity , many times higher than that of rocks .
This activity is due to products of the uranium series . .
2 .
Helium has been detected in these materials , even when they are not of more than pliocene age .
3 .
The ratio of helium to uranium oxide has been measured .
This ratio does not strictly follow the order of superposition of the strata ; but high ratios are not met with in the younger deposits , whereas they are common in the older ones .
It is conjectured that helium has been imperfectly retained , at all events in some cases .
4 .
Provisional values are given for the time required to accumulate the quantity of helium now found in the nodules and other materials .
In conclusion , I must record my best thanks to Professor Hughes and to Mr. J. J. H. Teall , who have most kindly supplied me with some of the materials used .

