L Fig:7 .
~~ orient occid V XZF 10 LB 2X ~~~ orioccid ent A X Fig:3 .
Fig:8 .
X orient 69 ~ occid X5 PAC ~XP EAB C ~ of Feet RZ FQOD Fig:10 Fig:11 .
BA BA E C ~D BA BA Scale of Inches MBurg .
sculp .
An abstract of Journal of the Philosophical Society of Oxford , being an account of some Experiments relating to Digestion read before that Society , and of a large bed of Glands observed in the Stomach of a Jack .
Aug. 19th 1684 .
THe Society being met , the following Experiments were tried , by Mr. Musgrave .
Part of a mucous substance , taken out of the Stomach of a Jack , near the Pylorus , and mixed with solution of sublimate , became much whiter than it was before .
Another part of it , mixed with Syrup of Violets , turned Green .
The same person has observed like effects , by mixing a Liquor , found in the stomach of a Hedghog , with Syrup of Violets , and with solution of sublimate .
These experiments are urged as an argument against the existence of an Acid Ferment in the stomach : It seems probab e , that the great work of ~ proceeds from a Volatile Alcali .
He also took notice of a large Bed of Glands , making about ~ths of the inside of the stomach , and seated near the Pylorus of a Jack : the whole Bed appears of a brownish red colour , and is divided into several Ridges , which run parallel to one another and the same way with the stomach : for the better contraction of that part , especially when empt ; ( at which time these Gland~ , being fixed to the inmost coat , are , together with it , drawn up into wrinlkes : ) that edge of this Bed of Glands , which is nearest the head of the fish , is dented ; the Ridges breaking ing off on a sudden ; but at the other end , a little on this side the Pylorus , they diminish almost insensibly .
By these Glands , he supposes , at least a considerable share of the Menstruum ( the great efficacy of which , makes this Fish , a fit subject to illustrate the nature of Digestion ) is separated from the Blood ; for Blood-vessels may be seen , in great numbers , on the other side of the Glands , and inner Tunic , by separating it , and them , from the middle , and musculose Tunic : and , as a farther argument of this use of these Glands , he has observed that that part of the stomach , where they are , is generally moister , then the other part , near the mouth ; and that , in dissecting Jacks whose stomachs have been fild with some large fish of the pinnaceous kind ( which must enter with the head foremost ) the head , and foremost parts of the devoured fish , have , as far as the Glands reach , been , either actually dissolved , or fairly turning , into a mucilage ; whereas , at the same time , the other , and less bony part , of the included fish , being not yet come within the power of the Menstruum , has still retained its form and Consistence .
Fig. 10 : represents the inside of the stomach of a Jack , which was one foot , and 8 inches long ; the stomach it self about 8 inches , and a half .
AAAA Shows the Bed of Glands .
BBBB That part of the inner Tunic , which reaches from the Bed of Glands to the mouth of the fish : it appears much whiter then the Glands ; the Fibres run the same way with the stomach .
C The entrance into the passage which leads to the Bladder of Air .
D The Pylorus .
E The hollow of the stomach continued beyond the Pylorus .
Fig. II .
Represents the other side of the Bed of Glands , separated , together with the inner , from the middle , Tunic ; and great numbers of Capillary Vessels , belonging to the Glands , but broken off in separation .

