408 Sir W. Crookes .
On Position of , atmosphere , have probably been misled by the close proximity ofhe brilliant yellow line of krypton to the helium line .
On the assumptionof the truth of Or .
Johnstone Stoney 's hios thesis that gases of a higher density than ammonia will be founia our atmosphere , it is by no means improbable that a gas lighter tin nitrogen will also be found in air .
We have already spent seval months in preparation for a search for it , and will be able to sit !
ere long whether the supposition is well founded .
" On the Position of Helium , Argon , and Krypton in ic Scheme of Elements .
" By Sir William Crookes , F.B. Received and Read June 9 , 1898 .
It has been found difficult to give the elements argon and helm ( and I think the same difficulty will exist in respect to the a if krypton ) their proper place in the scheme of arrangement of lie elements which we owe to the ingenuity and scientific acurn of Newlands , Mendeleef and others .
Some years ago , carrying a little further Professor Emerson Reynold 's idea of representing jflf scheme of elements by a zigzag line , I thought of projecting a schae in three dimensional space , and exhibited at one of the meeting ] !
the Chemical Society* a model illustrating my views .
Since tit time , I have re-arranged the positions then assigned to some of \#171 ; # less known elements in accordance with later atomic weight deir-minations , and thereby made the curve more symmetrical .
Many of the elemental facts can be well explained by supposing tai space projection of the scheme of elements to be a spiral .
This cu e is , however , inadmissible , inasmuch as the curve has to pass thrown a point neutral as to electricity and chemical energy twice in eik cycle .
We must therefore adopt some other figure .
A figure-of-eh t will foreshorten into a zigzag as well as a spiral , and it fulfils evy* condition of the problem .
Such a figure will result from three vj simple simultaneous motions .
First , an oscillation to and ( suppose east and west ) ; secondly , an oscillation at right angles\lt ; \gt ; | the former ( suppose north and south ) , and thirdly , a motion at ripn angles to these two ( suppose downwards ) , which , in it simplest foi*\gt ; i !
would be with unvarying velocity .
I take any arbitrary and convenient figure-of-eight , without rer* ence to its exact nature ; I divide each of the loops into eight egi^ parts , and then drop from these points ordinates corresponding to atomic weights of the first cycle of elements .
I have here a mu representing this figure projected in space ; in it the elements * Presidential Address to the Chemical Society , March 28,1888 .
Argon , and Krypton in the Scheme of Elements .
409 pposed to follow on\#169 ; another at equal distances ftlong tlx\#169 ; figurB ' \#166 ; eight spiral , a gap of one division being left at the point of ossing .
The vertical height is divided into 240 equal pai'ts on hioh the atomic weights are plotted , from H = 1 to Ur = 239 59 .
ach black disc represents an element , and is accurately on a level ith its atomic weight on the vertical scale .
The accompanying figure , photographed from the solid model , nstrates the proposed arrangement .
The elements falling one ader the other along each of the vertical ordinates , are H He Li G1 B C N O F Na Mg A1 Si P S 01 Are KCa Sc Ti V Or MirIVNi'Co Cu Zn Ga Ge As Se Br Kr Bb Sr Yt Zr Nb Mo Rh'EirPd Ag Cd In Bn Sb Te l \#151 ; Cs Ba La Ce ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )()()()()( ) , ) _ ( )()()( ) Ta W Ir-PfOs Au Hg Tl Pb Bi \#151 ; The bracketed spaces between cerium and tantalum are probably ccupied by elements of the didymium and erbium groups .
Their hemical properties are not known with sufficient accuracy to enable aeir positions to be well defined .
They all give coloured absorption pectra and have atomic weights between these limits .
Positions larked by a dash ( \#151 ; ) are waiting for future discoverers to fill up .
1 Let me suppose that at the birth of the elements , as we now know them , the action of the ms generatrix might be diagrammatically represented by a journey to and fro in cycles along a figure-of-eight 410 Position of Helium , Argon , and Krypton in the Elements .
path , while simultaneously time is flowing on , and some circumsta^ by which the element-forming cause is conditioned ( e.g. , temperatu ) is declining ; ( variations which I have endeavoured to represent the downward slope .
) The result of the first cycle may be represent !
in the diagram by supposing that the unknown formative cause h scattered along its journey the groupings now called hydrogen , lithiu glucinum , boron , carbon , nitrogen , oxygen , fluorine , sodium , nesium , aluminium , silicon , phorphorus , sulphur , and chlorine .
B the swing of the pendulum is not arrested at the end of the first roan It still proceeds on its journey , and had the conditions remain constant , the next elementary grouping generated would again .
lithium , and the original cycle would eternally reappear , product-again and again the same fourteen elements .
But the conditions a not quite the same .
Those represented by the two mutually recta gular horizontal components of the motion ( say chemical and electric energy ) are not materially modified ; that to which the vertical ooi ponent corresponds has lessened , and so , instead of lithium beii repeated by lithium , the groupings Vfhich form the commencement \ the second cycle , are not lithium , but its lineal descendant , potassim It is seen that each coil of the lemniscate track crosses the neutr line at lower and lower points .
This line is neutral as to electricit and neutral as to chemical action .
Electro-positive elements a generated on the northerly or retreating half of the swing , ai electro-negative elements on the southerly or approaching hal Chemical atomicity is governed by distance from the central point t neutrality ; monatomic elements being one remove from it , diatom ) elements two removes , and so on .
Paramagnetic elements congregai to the left of the neutral line , and diamagnetic elements to the righ With few exceptions , all the most metallic elements lie on the nortl Till recently chemists knew no element which had not more or les marked chemical properties , but now by the researches of Lor Rayleigh and Professor Ramsay , we are brought face to face with group of bodies with apparently no chemical properties , formin an exception to the other chemical elements .
I venture to sugges that these elements , helium , argon , and krypton in this schem naturally fall into their places as they stand on the neutral line Helium , with an atomic weight of 4 , fits into the neutral positioi between hydrogen and lithium .
Argon , with an atomic weight o about 40 , as naturally falls into the neutral position between chlorim and potassium .
While krypton with an atomic weight of about 80 will find a place between bromine and rubidium .
See how well the analogous elements follow one another in order .
C , Ti , and Zr ; NandY ; Gl , Ca , Sr , and Baj Li , K , Rb , and Cs ; d Br and I ; S , Se , and Te ; Mg , Zn , Cd , and Hg ; P , As , Sb , and Bi , Al , Ga , In , and Tl .
The symmetry of these series shows that we are Position of Helium , Argon , and Krypton the Elements .
411 , the right track .
It also shows how many missing elements are uting for discovery , and it would not now he impossible to emulate brilliant feat of Mendeleef in the celebrated cases of Eka-silicon 1 Eka-aluminium .
Along the neutral line alone are places for many \#166 ; re bodies , which will probably increase in density and atomic weight til we come to inert bodies in the solid form .
Pour groups are seen u nder one another , each consisting of closely ied elements wdiich Professor Mendeleef has relegated to his 8th nily .
They congregate round the atomic weight 57 , manganese , , n , nickel and cobalt ; round the atomic weight 103 , ruthenium , odium , and palladium ; while lower down round atomic weight 195 \#166 ; e congregated osmium , iridium and platinum .
These groups are , er per iodic because their atomic weights exclude them from the :all periods into which the other elements fall ; and because their emical relations with some members of the neighbouring groups 'Ow that they are interperiodic in the sense of being formed in insition stages .
[ Note , June 22nd , 1898 .
Since the above wras written , Professor Ramsay and Mr. Travers ve discovered two other inert gases accompanying argon in the mosphere .
These are called Neon and Metargon .
Erom data sup-ied me by Professor Ramsay , it is probable that neon has an atomic sight of about 22 , which would bring it into the neutral position tween fluorine and sodium .
Metargon is said to have an atomic eight of about 40 ; if so , it shares the third neutral position with gon .
I have marked the positions of these new elements on the agram .
] 2 i VOL. LXIII .

