III .
" On the Synthesis of Leucic Acid .
" By Dr. EDWARD FRANKLAND , F.R.S. Received December 26 , 1862 .
When oxalic ether is mixed with more than its own weight of zincethyl , the temperature of the mixture slowly rises , and soon considerable quantities of gas begin to be evolved , unless the heat be moderated by plunging the vessel , in which the reaction takes place , into cold water .
The gas consists of equal volumes of ethylene and hydride of ethyl ; and as it is the product of a secondary decomposition , its evolution should be avoided as much as possible in the manner just indicated .
The final application of a gentle heat completes the reaction .
The mixture generally continues fluid , but it becomes of a light strawcolour , and of an oily consistency .
On being heated to 130 ?
C. in a retort , no distillate passes over .
If , after cooling , its own volume of water be very gradually added to it , torrents of hydride of ethyl , derived from excess of zincethyl , are evolved .
By subsequent distillation in a water-bath , weak alcohol containing an ethereal oil in solution passes over ; and a further quantity of the oil may be obtained by adding water to the residue in the retort , and continuing the distillation upon a sand-bath .
The ethereal oil was precipitated from the alcoholic distillate by the addition of water , and was added to that which floated upon the surface of the aqueous distillate .
It was then dried over chloride of calcium , and rectified .
A very large proportion of the liquid distilled between 174 ?
and 176 ?
C. , and was collected apart .
Numerous analyses of this liquid agree closely with the formula* C H6 03 .
The liquid is in fact the ethylic ether of an acid possessing the same composition as the leucic acid obtained by Strecker* in acting on leucin by nitrous acid .
Upon the oxalic acid type its formula may be thus expressed : ( C2 H5 I C2 HR C0,0 1 HO C2 H5 0 .
Leucic ether cannot be directly derived from the action of zincethyl upon oxalic ether , but it is produced when water is added to the result of that reaction .
There can scarcely be a doubt that the body first formed is zincoleucic ether , rC , H , 02 115 C2 H , C2( 0 !
ZnO .
C , H O. I have not succeeded in isolating this body ; but , on the assumption of its production , the action of zincethyl upon oxalic ether may be thus formulated : Co 1 C2H , Z CHO+Zn O ZnO C2HO 1C 5 2ZnO r2C2 Zn 110 CH .
5 Zincethyl .
H6 Ethylate of Oxalic ether .
----zinc .
Zincoleucic ether .
In contact with water zincoleucic ether is decomposed with the formation of leuci c ether and hydratend oide of zinc : c2 0 +H } O=C+Z } O. , ZnO ... ... ..| .
H , Zincoleucic ether .
Leucic ether .
Leucic ether is a colourless , transparent , and somewhat oily liquid , possessing a peculiar and penetrating ethereal odour and a sharp taste .
It is insoluble in water , but readily soluble in alcohol or ether .
Its specific gravity is '9613 at 18 ?
'7 C. ; it boils at 175 ?
C. , and distils unchanged .
A determination of the density of its vapour gave the number 5 241 : the above formula , corresponding to 2 vols .
of vapour* , requires the number 5'528 .
When leucic ether is treated with solution of hydrate of baryta , it gradually dissolves even in the cold ; on heating the solution in a water-bath , a liquid having the properties of alcohol distils off ; and on separating the excess of baryta by carbonic acid and filtration , the solution yields , on evaporation , a crystallizable baryta-salt which , after drying at 100 ?
C. , gives on analysis numbers closely corresponding with the formula of leucate of baryta : C2H C2 0 HO KBaO .
Leucate of potash is similarly produced when leucic ether is treated with an aqueous solution of caustic potash .
It separates as a semisolid soap upon the surface of the potash solution , if the latter be concentrated .
All the salts of this acid appear to be soluble in water .
Leucic acid in solution is obtained when dilute sulphuric acid is added to leucate of baryta ; the acid has a sour taste , reddens litmus strongly , and is readily soluble both in water and alcohol .
It can be boiled with water without decomposition , and traces only of the acid distil off with the water .
So far as I have studied its properties , leucic acid thus obtained appears to be identical with that derived from leucin ; but it will be necessary to establish this identity by a more rigorous comparison of the two acids .
The production of leucic acid from oxalic acid , as just described , obviously affords an insight into the molecular constitution of the class of organic acids of which lactic acid is the representative ; I refrain , however , from offering any opinion upon a point which has already given rise to so many hypotheses , until I have completed the study of this reaction , and extended it to other homologous bodies .

