262 Prof. J. Thomson on [ Feb. 3 , III .
" On an Integrating Machine having a New Kinematic Principle .
" By Professor James Thomson , LL. D. , P.R.S.E. Communicated by Prof. Sir William Thomson , F.Tt .
S. Received January 31 , 1876 .
The kinematic principle for integrating ydx , which is used in the instruments well known as Morin 's Dynamometer* and Sang 's Plani-meter f , admirable as it is in many respects , involves one element of imperfection which cannot but prevent our contemplating it with full satisfaction .
This imperfection consists in the sliding action which the edge wheel or roller is required to take in conjunction with its rolling action , which alone is desirable for exact communication of motion from the disk or cone to the edge roller .
The very ingenious , simple , and practically useful instrument well known as Amsler 's Polar Planimeter , although different in its main features of principle and mode of action from the instruments just referred to , ranks along with them in involving the like imperfection of requiring to have a sidewise sliding action of its edge rolling wheel , besides the desirable rolling action on the surface which imparts to it its revolving motion\#151 ; a surface which in this case is not a disk or cone , but is the surface of the paper , or any other plane face , on which the map or other plane diagram to be evaluated in area is drawn .
Professor J. Clerk Maxwell , having seen Sang 's Planimeter in the Great Exhibition of 1851 , and having become convinced that the combination of slipping and rolling was a drawback on the perfection of the instrument , began to search for some arrangement by which the motion should be that of perfect rolling in every action of the instrument , corresponding to that of combined slipping and rolling in previous instruments .
He succeeded in devising a new form of planimeter or integrating machine with a quite new and very beautiful principle of kinematic action depending on the mutual rolling of two equal spheres , each on the other .
He described this in a paper submitted to the Royal Scottish Society of Arts in January 1855 , which is published in vol. iv .
of the Transactions of that Society .
In that paper he also offered a * Instruments of this kind , and any others for measuring mechanical work , may better in future he called Ergometers than Dynamometers .
The name " dynamometer has been and continues to be in common use for signifying a spring instrument for measuring force ; but an instrument for measuring work , being distinct in its nature and object , ought to have a different and more suitable designation .
The name " dynamometer , " besides , appears to be badly formed from the Greek , and for designating an instrument for measurement of force .
I would suggest that the name may with advantage be changed to dynamimeter .
In respect to the mode of forming words in such cases , reference may be made to Curtius 's Grammar , Dr. Smith 's English edition , S 354 , p. 220.\#151 ; J. T. , 26th February , 1876 .
t Sang 's Planimeter is very clearly described and figured in a paper by its inventor , in the Transactions of the Eoyal Scottish Society of Arts , vol. iv .
January 12 , 1852 .
f j76 .
] an Integrating Machine .
te sggestion , which appears to be both interesting and important , proving the attainment of the desired conditions of action by the mutual 33 tiling of a cone and cylinder with their axes at right angles .
The idea of using pure rolling instead of combined rolling and slipping is communicated to me by Prof. Maxwell , when I had the pleasure of irning from himself some particulars as to the nature of his contri-nce .
Afterwards ( some time between the years 1861 and 1864 ) , while devouring to contrive means for the attainment in meteorological servatories of certain integrations in respect to the motions of the ind , and also in endeavouring to devise a planimeter more satisfactory ' i principle than either Sang 's or Amsler 's planimeter ( even though , on rounds of practical simplicity and convenience , unlikely , to turn out referable to Amsler 's in ordinary cases of taking areas from maps or ]her diagrams , but something that I hoped might possibly be attain-3le which , while having the merit of working by pure rolling contact , light be simpler than the instrument of Prof. Maxwell and preferable ) it in mechanism ) , I succeeded in devising for the desired object a new inematic method , which has ever since appeared to me likely sometime o prove valuable when occasion for its employment might be found , low , within the last few days , this principle , on being suggested to my rother as perhaps capable of being usefully employed towards the deve-opment of tide-calculating machines which he had been devising , has \gt ; even found by him to be capable of being introduced and combined in several ways to produce important results .
On his advice , therefore , I low offer to the Eoyal Society a brief description of the new principle is devised by me .
The new principle consists primarily in the transmission of motion :rom a disk or cone to a cylinder by the intervention of a loose ball , yhich presses by its gravity on the disk and cylinder , or on the cone and cylinder , as the case may be , the pressure being sufficient to give the accessory frictional coherence at each point of rolling contact ; and the axis of the disk or cone and that of the cylinder being both held fixed in position by bearings in stationary framework , and the arrangement of these axes being such .
that when the disk or the cone and the cylinder are kept steady , or , in other words , without rotation on their axes , the ball can roll along them in contact with both , so that the point of rolling contact between the ball and the cylinder shall traverse a straight line on the eylindric surface parallel necessarily to the axis of the cylinder\#151 ; and so that , in the case of a disk being used , the point of rolling contact of the ball with the disk shall traverse a straight line passing through the centre of the disk\#151 ; or that , in case of a cone being used , the line of rolling contact of the ball on the cone shall traverse a straight line on the conical surface , directed necessarily towards the vertex of the cone .
It will thus readily be seen that , whether the cylinder and the disk or cone be at rest or revolving on their axes , the two lines of rolling contact of the ball , one 2G4 Prof. J. Thomson on [ Feb. on the cylindric surface and the other on the disk or cone , when bo considered as lines traced out in space fixed relatively to the framing the whole instrument , will be two parallel straight lines , and that t line of motion of the ball 's centre will be straight and parallel to thei For facilitating explanations , the motion of the centre of the ball aloi its path parallel to the axis of the cylinder may be called the ball 's lonr tudinal motion .
Now for the integration of yclx : the distance of the point of conta of the ball with the disk or cone from the centre of the disk or vert of the cone in the ball 's longitudinal motion is to represent whi the angular space turned by the disk or cone from any initial positic represents x ; and then the angular space turned by the cylinder wi when multiplied by a suitable constant numerical coefficient , express tl integral in terms of any required unit for its evaluation .
The longitudinal motion may be imparted to the ball by having tl framing of the whole instrument so placed that the lines of longitudin ; motion of the two points of contact and of the ball 's centre , which ai three straight lines mutually parallel , shall be inclined to the horizont ; sufficiently to make the ball tend decidedly to descend along the line \lt ; its longitudinal motion , and then regulating its motion by an abuttin controller , which may have at its point of contact , where it presses on tt ball , a plane face perpendicular to the line of the ball 's motion .
Other wise the longitudinal motion may , for some cases , preferably be imparte to the ball by having the direction of that motion horizontal , and havin two controlling fiat faces acting in close contact without tightness a opposite extremities of the ball 's diameter , which at any moment is i the line of the ball 's motion or is parallel to the axis of the cylinder .
It is worthy of notice that , in the case of the disk , ball , and cylinde integrator , no theoretical nor important practical fault in the action c the instrument would be involved in any deficiency of perfect exactitud in the practical accomplishment of the desired condition that the line o motion of the ball 's point of contact with the disk should pass throug the centre of the disk .
The reason of this will be obvious enough on little consideration .
The plane of the disk may suitably be placed inclined to the horizonta at some such angle as 45 ' ; and the accompanying sketch , together with the model , which will be submitted to the Society by my brother , wil aid towards the clear understanding of the explanations which have beei given .
My brother has pointed out to me that an additional operation , important for some purposes , may be effected by arranging that the machim shall give a continuous record of the growth of the integral by introducing additional mechanisms suitable for continually describing a curve such that for each point of it the abscissa shall represent the value oi , v , and the ordinate shall represent the integral attained from an Integrating Machine .
1876 .
] forward to that value of x. This , he has poiuted out , may be effected n practice by having a cylinder axised on the axis of the disk , a roll of paper covering this cylinder 's surface , and a straight bar situated parallel 50 this cylinder 's axis and resting with enough of pressure on the surface )f the primary registering or the indicating cylinder ( the one , namely , PLAN .
which is actuated by its contact with the ball ) to make it have sufficient frictional coherence with that surface , and by having this bar made to carry a pencil or other tracing point which will mark the desired curve on the secondary registering or the recording cylinder .
As , from the nature of the apparatus , the axis of the disk and of the secondary registering or the recording cylinder ought to be steeply inclined to the horizontal , and as , therefore , this bar , carrying the pencil , would have the line of its length and of its motion alike steeply inclined with that axis , it seems that , to carry out this idea , it may be advisable to have a thread attached to the bar and extending off in the line of the bar to a pulley , passing over the pulley , and having suspended at its other end a weight which will be just sufficient to counteract the tendency of the rod , in virtue of gravity , to glide down along the line of its own slope , so as to leave it perfectly free to be moved up or down by the frictional coherence between itself and the moving surface of the indicating cylinder worked directly by the ball .
VOL. XXIV .
X

