A paper was read , entitled , " Some Observations on the Structure of Shells , and on the Economy of Molluscous Animals .
" By John Edward Gray , Esq. F.R.S. The author distinguishes two kinds of structure in shells ; the one in which the calcareous matter is crystallized , composing what Mr. Hatchett has called the porcellaneous structure ; and the other , in which it is deposited in grains intermixed with a large proportion of animal matter , constituting the nacreous or granular structure .
The former class of shells , which includes most of the turbinated univalves , may be divided into those in which the crystals are rhombic , and those in which they are prismatic .
The first are composed of three distinct layers , the lamina ?
of which are disposed differently in the intermediate layer from what they are in the outer and inner layers .
The direction of the fibres of each being nearly at right angles to that of the contiguous layer , the strength of the shell is rendered considerably greater than if the arrangement of the fibres had been uniform in each plate .
The comparative thickness of the three plates varies in different shells ; but the central plate is generally the thickest .
The outer plate is the thinnest ; and , in some shells , is easily detached , in consequence of the deposition underneath it of a white film of less coherent matter .
It often happens , that when the animal arrives at its full size , it deposits layers of shell either on the lips or the columella : and in some , as the Cyprcea ?
, an additional coat , which is harder , more compact , and differently co ?
loured from the rest of the shell , is formed by an extension of the mantle , and laid on the outside of the shell ; the part , where the two reflected portions of the mantle meet on the back being marked by what is termed the dorsal line .
Besides these component parts of turbinated shells , there is often deposited on the sides and interior part of their cavities , especially of the upper whorls , a transparent calcareous concretion .
In shells of which the spires are elongated and acute , as in the Turritellae , this deposition entirely fills up the cavity of the upper whorls ; thus ren ?
dering solid the tips , which , from their small size and original thinness , would otherwise have been very liable to be broken .
In other cases the animal , instead of filling up this upper cavity , suddenly withdraws its body from the upper whorls , and then forms a concave septum , by which the vital communication between the body and the apex of the shell being cut off , this part decays as a dead shell , and gradually falls to pieces .
Shells having a prismatic crystalline structure are formed of short fibres , every where perpendicular to the surface .
The prisms are mostly hexagonal .
Shells of a granular structure present a more uniform texture ; the plates of animal matter they contain being very thin , and closely compacted together .
They have generally a pearly or iridescent lustre , arising from this peculiar conformation .
The particles of disintegrated Placunce are employed by the Chinese as silver in their water-colour drawings .
In many shells belonging to this class , as in the Oyster , the animal matter , being more abundant , produces a distinctly laminated texture .
It has been generally believed , and sometimes strenuously main ?
tained , that molluscous animals have not the power of absorbing the matter of their shells when it has once been deposited .
The author brings forward a large mass of evidence in proof of their frequently exercising this power .
In the Cone and the Olive , all the septa between the whorls enclosed in the body are very thin and transparent , and , when compared with the corresponding portions of the outside , adjacent to the apex , are found to have lost the outer and the middle layers , the innermost alone remaining .
In the Auriculce , this inner layer also is removed , leaving a simple cavity in the upper half of the shell .
The absorption of the substance of these internal portions of shell gives more space for the body , at the same time that it renders the shell much lighter , without any diminution of its strength ; the body being sufficiently protected by the outer whorl .
In the Murices , and other shells having ridges or spines on the front of the whorls , which , in the progress of the growth of the shell , the succeeding whorls would necessarily overlap , these appendages are generally ab ?
sorbed , to make way for the succeeding whorls ; their absorption being effected by the edge of the mantle as it comes in contact with them .
Thus do many species of Mollusca absorb , at regular epochs of their growth , certain parts of their shells , which had , at a preceding period , been deposited about the lip in the form of ribs or teeth .
Mollusca have also the power of forming excavations in the shells of other animals of this class , and sometimes of other individuals of the same species : many instances of these facts are adduced by the author ; among which one of the most curious is the history of the Spiraglyphus , which , in the progress of its enlargement , absorbs a tubu ?
lar portion of shell which it had formed at an early period of its growth .
They also excavate portions of solid rock in providing for their habitation .
Molluscous animals , however , do not appear to be capable of removing extraneous obstacles which oppose their progress in the formation of their shell ; in proof of which , various examples are ad ?
duced of foreign bodies being enclosed in the layers of shells .
The author produces evidence of the secretion of the materials of the shell by other parts than the mantle , and in particular by the upper part of the foot .
The operculum is in this way formed , in a manner exactly similar to shell , by the back of the foot : and its various modifications of form , the author remarks , afford important characters for the systematic classification of this department of Natural History .

