362 Prof. Hughes on the Action of Sonorous Vibrations [ May 9 , May 9 , 1878 .
Sir JOSEPH HOOKER , K.C.S.I. , President , in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read:\#151 ; I. " On the Action of Sonorous Vibrations in varying the Force of an Electric Current .
" By Professor D. E. Hughes .
Communicated by Professor Huxley , Sec. R.S. Received May 8 , 1878 .
The introduction of the telephone has tended to develop our knowledge of acoustics with great rapidity .
It offers to us an instrument of great delicacy for further research into the mysteries of acoustic phenomena .
It detects the presence of currents of electricity that have hitherto only been suspected , and it shows variations in the strengths of currents which no other instrument has ever indicated .
It has led me to investigate the effect of sonorous vibrations upon the electrical behaviour of matter .
Willoughby Smith has shown that the resistance of selenium is affected by light , and Bornstein has led us to believe that many other bodies are similarly affected .
We know also that the resistance of all bodies is materially influenced by heat .
Sir William Thomson and others have shown that the resistance to the passage of currents offered by wires is affected by their being placed under strains , and , inasmuch as the conveyance of sonorous vibrations induces rapid variations in the strains at different points of a wire , I believed that the wire would vary in its resistance when it was used to convey sound .
To investigate this I made a rough-and-ready telephone , with a small bar magnet four inches long , half the coil of an ordinary electro-magnet , and a square piece of ferro-type iron , three inches square , clamped rigidly in front of one pole of the magnet between two pieces of board .
When using the pendulum beats of a small French clock , or the voice , as a source of sound , I found this arrangement supplied me with an extremely delicate phonoscope or sound detector .
All the experiments detailed in this paper were made with the simplest possible means , and no apparatus of any kind constructed by a scientific instrument maker was employed .
The battery was a simple Daniell 's cell , of Minotto 's form , made by using three common tumblers , a spiral piece of copper wire being placed at the bottom of each glass and covered with sulphate of copper , and the glass being 36a 1878.1 in varying the Force of an Electric Current , then filled with well-moistened clay and water .
A piece of zinc as the positive element was placed upon the clay .
Insulated wires were attached to each plate , and three of these cells were joined in series .
All experiments were made on a closed circuit , the telephone being used as a phonoscope to detect variations in the current and the consequent reproduction of sound .
The apparatus , or materials experimented upon , were used in the same way as the transmitter of the speaking telephone of Bell .
The attached sketch will make this clears B is the battery , S the source of sound or material examined , T the telephone or phonoscope .
I introduced into the circuit at S a strained conductor\#151 ; a stretched wire\#151 ; listening attentively with the telephone to detect any change that might occur when the wire was spoken to or set into transverse vibrations by being plucked aside .
Gradually , till the wire broke , the strain was varied , but no effect whatever was remarked except at the moment when the wire broke .
The effect was but momentary , but invariably at the moment of breaking a peculiar " rush " or sound* was heard .
I then sought to imitate the condition of the wire at the moment of rupture by replacing the broken ends and pressing them together with a constant and varying force by the application of weights .
It was found that if the broken ends rested upon one another with a slight pressure of not more than one ounce to the square inch on the joints , sounds were distinctly reproduced although the effects were very imperfect .
It was soon found that it was not at all necessary to join two wires endwise together to reproduce sound , but that any portion of an electric conductor would do so even when fastened to a board or to a table , and no matter how complicated the structure upon this board , or the materials used as a conductor , provided one or more portions of the electrical conductor were separated and only brought into contact by a slight but constant pressure .
Thus , if the ends of the wire terminate in two common French nails laid side by side , and are separated VOL. xxvii .
2 B 364 Prof. Hughes on the Action of Sonorous Vibrations [ May 9 , from each other by a slight space , were electrically connected by laying a similar nail between them , sound could be reproduced .
The effect was improved by building up the nails log-hut fashion , into a square configuration , using ten or twenty nails .
A piece of steel watch chain acted well .
Up to this point the sound or grosser vibrations were alone produced , the finer inflections were missing , or , in other words , the timbre of the voice was wanting , but in the following experiments the timbre became more and more perfect until it reached a perfection leaving nothing to be desired .
I found that a metallic powder such as the white powder\#151 ; a mixture of zinc and tin\#151 ; sold in commerce as " white bronze , " and fine metallic filings , introduced at the points of " contact , greatly added to the perfection of the result .
At this point articulate speech became clearly and distinctly reproduced , together with its timbre , and I found that all that now remained was to discover the best material and form to give to this arrangement its maximum effect .
Although I tried all forms of pressure and modes of contact , a lever , a spring ; pressure in a glass tube sealed up while under the influence of strain , so as to maintain the pressure constant , all gave similar and invariable results , but the results varied with the materials used .
All metals , however , could be made to produce identical results , provided the division of the metal was small enough , and that the material used does not oxidize by contact with the air filtering through the mass .
Thus platinum and mercury are very excellent and unvarying in their results , whilst lead soon becomes of such high resistance , through oxidation upon the surface , as to be of little or no use .
A mass of bright round shot is peculiarly sensitive to sound whilst clean , but as the shot soon become coated with oxide this sensitiveness ceases .
Carbon again , from its surface being entirely free from oxidation , is excellent , but the best results I have been able to obtain at present have been from mercury in a finely divided state .
I took a comparatively'porous non-conductor , such as the willow charcoal used by artists for sketching , heating it gradually to a white heat and then suddenly plunging it in mercury .
The vacua in the pores , caused by the sudden cooling , become filled with innumerable minute globules of mercury , thus , as it were , holding the mercury in a fine state of division .
I have also tried carbon treated in a similar manner with and without platinum deposited upon it from the chloride of platinum .
I have also found similar effects from the willow charcoal heated in an iron vessel to a white heat , and containing a free portion of tin , zinc , or other easily vaporized metal .
Under such conditions the willow carbon will be found to be metallized , having the metal distributed throughout its pores in a fine state of division .
Iron also seems to enter the pores if heated to a white heat without being chemically combined with the carbon as in graphite , and , indeed , some of the best results have been 1878 .
] in varying the Force of an Electric Current .
365 obtained from willow charcoal containing iron in a fine state of division .
Pine charcoal treated in this manner ( although a non-conductor as a simple charcoal ) has high conductive powers , due to the iron ; and from the minute division of the iron in the pores , is a most excellent material for the purpose .
Any one of these preparations confined in a glass tube or a box , and provided with wires for insertion in a circuit , I call a " transmitter .
" Reis , in 1860 , showed how , by the movement of a diaphragm , intermittent voltaic currents could be transmitted , agreeing in exact number with the sonorous waves impinging on the diaphragm , and thus reproducing music at a distance by causing an electro-magnet to vibrate in unison with the diaphragm ; and , with an iron diaphragm , Graham Bell showed how the vibrations of that diaphragm in front of a polarised electro-magnet could similarly induce magneto-currents , corresponding in number , amplitude , and forms , with the sonorous vibration , and thus reproduce all the delicacies ' of the human voice .
Edison and others have produced variations in the strengths of a constant current by causing the diaphragm to press directly upon some elastic conductor , such as carbon , spongy platinum^ \lt ; Sbc .
, the varying pressure upon these materials varying the resistance of the circuit , and consequently the strength of current flowing .
Graham Bell and others have produced the same effect , by causing the- vibrations of the diaphragm to vary the electromotive force in the circuit .
It will be seen , however , that in the experiments made by myself , the diaphragm has been altogether discarded , resting as it does upon the changes produced by molecular action , and that the variations in the strengths of the currents flowing are produced simply and solely by the direct effect of the sonorous vibrations .
I have found that any sound , however feeble , produces vibrations which can be taken up by the matter interposed in the electrical circuit .
Sounds absolutely inaudible to the human ear affect the resistance of the conductors described above .
In practice , the effect is so sensitive , that a slight touch on the board , by the finger nail , on which the transmitter is placed , or a mere touch with the soft part of a feather , would be distinctly heard at the receiving station .
The movement of the softest camel hair brush on any part of the board is distinctly audible .
If held in the hand , several feet from a piano , the whole chords\#151 ; the highest as well as the lowest\#151 ; can be distinctly heard at a distance .
If one person sings a song , the distant station , provided with a similar transmitter , can sing and speak at the same time , and the sounds will be received loud enough for the person singing to follow the second speech or song sent from the distant end .
Acting on these facts , I have also devised an instrument suitable for magnifying weak sounds , which I call a microphone .
The microphone , 2 b 2 366 Prof. Hughes on the Action of Sonorous Vibrations [ May 9 , in its present form , consists simply of a lozenge-shaped piece of gas carbon , one inch long , quarter inch wide at its centre , and one-eighth of an inch in thickness .
The lower pointed end rests as a pivot upon a small block of similar carbon ; the upper end , being made round , plays free in a hole in a small carbon-block , similar to that at the lower end .
The lozenge stands vertically upon its lower support .
The whole of the gas carbon is tempered in mercury , in the way previously described , though this is not absolutely necessary .
The form of the lozenge-shaped carbon is not of importance , provided the weight of this upright contact piece is only just sufficient to make a feeble contact by its own weight .
Carbon is used in preference to any other material , as its surface does not oxidise .
A platinum surface in a finely-divided state is equal , if not superior , to the mercurised carbon , but more difficult and costly to construct .
I have also made very sensitive ones entirely of iron .
The best form and materials for this instrument , however , have not yet been fully experimented on .
Still , in its present shape , it is capable of detecting very faint sounds made in its presence .
If a pin , for instance , be laid upon or taken off a table , a distinct sound is emitted , or , if a fly be confined under a table-glass , we can hear the fly walking , with a peculiar tramp of its own .
The beating of a pulse , the tick of a watch , the tramp of a fly , can thus be heard at least a hundred miles distant from the source of sound .
In fact , when further developed by study , we may fairly look for it to do for us , with regard to faint sounds , what the microscope does with matter too small for human vision .
It is quite evident that these effects are due to a difference of pressure at the different points of contact , and that they are dependent for the perfection of action upon the number of these points of contact .
Moreover , they are not dependent upon any apparent difference in the bodies in contact , but the same body in a state of minute subdivision is equally effective .
Electrical resistance is a function of the mass of the conductor , but sonorous conduction is a function of the molecules of matter .
How is it therefore that a sonorous wave can so affect the mass of a conductor as to influence its electrical resistance P If we assume a line of molecules , we know that a sonorous wave is accompanied by alternate compressions and rarefactions .
If we isolate the part under compression from the part under dilatation we vary the dimensions of the mass , and we alter its electrical resistance .
In any homogeneous conductor of finite dimensions the effect of the one win exactly compensate for the effect of the other , and we get no variation of current , but if we break up this homogeneous conductor into a series of minute subdivisions without actually breaking their electrical continuity we destroy this neutralizing influence , and we render evident the effect of sonorous vibrations in varying the dimensions of 1878.1 in varying the Force of an Electric Current .
the mass of the conductor , and therefore in varying its electrical resistance , for we reduce the length of a portion of the conductor to a fraction of the length of a sonorous wave .
Molecular action alone explains to me all the effects produced .
Size or shape does not affect them .
A piece of willow charcoal , the size of a pin 's head , is quite sufficient to reproduce articulate speech .
I regard the action as follows:\#151 ; If we have two separate conductors joined simply by contact this contact offers a certain resistance .
Now we can vary or lessen the resistance by increasing the .
pressure , thus bringing more points in contact or closer proximity .
Now , as I employ a constant pressure on the contact , which is exactly under the same influence of the vibrations as the points of contact , more points or closer proximity can only be obtained through the molecular swelling or movement of the contact points .
If we assume a line of molecules at the point of contact of the minute masses of condncting matter in their neutral condition to be arranged thus : \#151 ; they will appear thus under compression :\#151 ; and thus under dilatation:\#151 ; In the former case the electrical resistance would be less , and in the latter case more than in the normal condition .
Hence we should get variation in their electrical resistance , and thus sonorous waves could vary the strength of an electric current , and the variations of the electric current can be made to reproduce sonorous vibrations .
These , however , wonld only produce the result in a certain line , say horizontal ; but those perpendicular , while producing the same result , would be a half vibration behind , and thus if two contacts , the one horizontal and the other perpendicular , were on the same piece of charcoal and the conducting line joined to both , we should have interference .
The contrary takes place as the more contacts we have , and the more varied their direction \#166 ; on the same , the louder and purer the sound becomes .
Hence there is no interference , and consequently the whole mass must swell and diminish equally in all directions at the same instant of time .
The tube transmitter , which I exhibit this evening , consists of an exterior glass tube two inches long and one quarter of an inch in 368 Prof. Hughes on the Action of Sonorous Vibrations .
[ May 9 , diameter .
In it are four separate pieces of willow charcoal , each one quarter of an inch long , and two terminals of the same material .
The terminals are fastened in the tube , and connect exteriorly with the line and interiorly with the four loose pieces , thus:\#151 ; Here A is made to press on B , C , D , E , P , and Gr , until the resistance offered to the electrical current is about one-third that of the line upon which it is to be employed .
It may be attached to a resonant board by the ends A or Gr .
If the result was simply due to vibrations , we should have A and B making greater contact at a different time from P and Gr , and consequent interference .
If it was a simple shaking or moving of B , C , D , E , and F , it could produce no change , as if B pressed more strongly on C , it would be less on A , and also if the tube was attached by the centre we should have no effect ; but if the effect is due to a swelling or enlargement of B , C , D , E , P , it would make no difference where it is attached to the resonant board , as is actually the case .
Again reduce the pressure of A upon B , \amp ; c. , until they are not in contact , and no trace of current can be perceived by shaking the tube .
The instant the sonorous vibrations pass in the tube there is electric contact to a remarkable degree , which could only have taken place by the molecules enlarging their sphere under the influence of the sonorous vibrations .
It is impossible to say what can be the applications or the effects of the discovery which I have had the honour of bringing before the Royal Society , for the whole question has been studied with crude materials , and scarcely sufficient time has elapsed to enable me to consider its ultimate uses .
I do not desire to assert that there is anything in what I have brought forward that is superior to or equal to other transmitters used for telephony .
It is as loud and far more sensitive than any I have yet heard , and it may be increased by multiplication of transmitting contacts in quantity or intensity ; the loudness is at present limited by the capability of the receiver .
The materials at my disposal , and the arrangement of them , have not yet been sufficiently studied .
I only wished to show that it is possible to transmit clear and intelligent articulate speech , and to render audible J878 .
] Dr. H. Watneyon Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
369 sounds which have hitherto been inaudible by the mere operation of sonorous vibrations upon the conducting power of matter .
My warmest thanks are due to Mr. W. H. Preece , electrician to the Post Office , for his appreciation of the importance of the facts I have stated , and for his kind counsel and aid in the preparation of this paper .
I do not intend to take out a patent , as the facts I have mentioned belong more to the domain of discovery than invention .
No doubt inventors will ere long improve on the form and materials employed .
I have already my reward in being allowed to submit my researches to the Royal Society .
II .
" Note on the Minute Anatomy of the Thymus .
" By Herbert Watney , M.A. , M.D. Cantab .
Communicated by Dr. Klein , F.R.S. Received April 8 , 1878 .
The thymus is composed of lobes , lobules , and follicles .
Each follicle consists of a cortical and a medullary portion ; the medullary parts of two neighbouring follicles are often united , and at one point , therefore , the medullary portion may extend through the cortex of the follicle ; in some follicles the medullary portion may be found in the form of two or more islands situated in the interior of the follicle .
The follicle is composed ( a ) of a reticulum of nucleated cells , and ( b ) of cells ; the reticulum forms an adventitia to the blood-vessels .
The cells forming the reticulum in the cortical part of the follicle consist of a disk-shaped nucleus , a cell body very little larger than the nucleus , and of very long , fine , branching processes .
The reticulum of the medullary portion is composed of cells with coarse , short processes ; the body of the cell is more than twice , or even three times , as large as the nucleus , and contains one , or at times , two nuclei ; in places , large protoplasmic masses are met with , forming part of the reticulum composed of two or three cells united together .
There are also found in the medullary portions , in certain states of the thymus , connective tissue trabeculae .
The cells are of four kinds:\#151 ; ( 1 .
) Small cells , resembling the lymph cells .
of a follicle of a lvmphatic gland .
Staining fluids act differently on these cells in the cortical and in the medullary parts of the follicle .
\#187 ; ( 2 .
) Large granular cells of various sizes ; many of them have long processes by which , in some cases , they are attached to the trabeculae and to the blood-vessels : these cells contain one or two nuclei , and help to form ( partly by a process of vacuolation ) the concentric corpuscles of the thymus .

