]\gt ; 1912 .
] Studies of Processes in Solutions .
erroneous to a considerable extent ; it is also pointed out that it is possible to deduce an end point which gives the appearance of constancy to the values of , when in reality they should show a steady rise or fall .
The argument may also be applied when the values of are deduced by the equation in the case of a calculated initial value , as it is possible to so adjust the initial value as to make the values of approximate to constancy , in reality they should rise or fall .
Studies of the ocesses Operative in Solutions .
XXII.\mdash ; The Hydrolysis of Sugar by : Acid ; on By F. P. Communicated by Prof. H. E. Armstrong , F.R.S. Received July 29 , \mdash ; December 5 , 1912 .
) In view of the fact that the acids used in the inquiries discussed Tart XII and the succeeding parts of these studies were all monobasic , it was desirable to rrate the hydrolytic activity of a dibasic acid , more especially with a view to following the progressive alteration in moleculal hydrolytic activity and apparent degree of hydration changes of concentration .
A series of experiments , sulphuric acid as the catalyst , has been carried out therefore on the lines of those described in Part Some of the complexities of the hydrolytic process and of the } ) olarimetric .
method of following its course were dealt with in that communication ; moreover , several disturbing factors were referred to , such as the change in the osmotic conditions as the action proceeds and changes in the optical activity of the various substances due to dilution , to their mutual interference , and to the influence of acids or salts ; the possible influence of\ldquo ; trotation however , was not mentioned , as there appeared to be no reason to believe that it in any way affected the results .
The study of the rates at which hydrolysis is effected by sulphuric acid of different degrees of concentration has shown that exactly the same complexities are met with in this case as were experienced in the case of Mr. F. P. Worley .
chlorhydric and nitric acids .
Thus , in the more concentrated solutions , there is a gradual change in the final angle of rotation after hydrolysis is complete such as was observed in the inquiry described in Part XII ; this was allowed for as before when necessary , though in most of the experiments the concentration was not great enough for its effect to be noticed .
In the solutions , the value of the velocity coefficient calculated from the equation is found to increase as hydrolysis proceeds ; that is to say , the ratio of the rate of hydrolysis to the concentration of the oane sugar increases as the sugar is hydrolysed .
This increase was shown in Part XII to be due , in all , mainly to the using up of water as hydrolysis , whereby a decrease is brought about in the ratio of water to acid .
As a decrease in this ratio involves a considerable increase in the molecular hydrolytic activity of the acid , it is to be expected that in cases in which the proportion of water used up in the hydrolysis is appreciable , the ratio of the rate of drolysis to the concentration of the cane sugar would increase appreciably as the action proceeds .
In addition , ation of the change in rotatory power attending hydrolysis at different dilutions has thrown light on the variation in the amount of optical inversion at different deglees of .
this .
point will be more fully discussed at a later Possible Effect of " " Mutarotation.\ldquo ; \mdash ; In view of the great accelerating influence of acids on the rate at which the one modification of glucose passes over into the isodynamic form , there is little doubt that in the presence of the relatively large quantities of acid used the equilibrium would be rapidly ived at that the phenomenon known as mutarotation , involving a gradual change in the specific rotatory power , would not be perceptible to any appreciable extent and , therefore , would not have any measurable influence on the results .
The futility of attempting to attribute any , change in the value of the elocity coefficient as hydrolysis proceeds to ' mutarotation\ldquo ; scarcely need be pointed out .
The wonder is that in the presence of so many possible disturbing influences the from constancy is not greater than it is .
In the case of the more concentrated solutions the alteration in the specific molecular hydrolytic activity of the acid as the ratio of water to acid diminishes is sufficient to account for a considerable rise in the value of the constant as hydrolysis proceeds .
There is , further , the probability that , the products of change exert an appreciable influence ; such an influence is !
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
likely to be of a very complex nature and the fact that the " " constant\ldquo ; is so little affected is an indication that the various effects of the glucose and fructose formed must to a great extent counteract one another .
Apart from an actual in the constant as hydrolysis proceeds , there is the possibility of an apparent caused , on the one hand by an incorrect value being taken as the end point through of the fact that the value of the final rotation may not remain constant , on the other by the adoption of an incorrect initial value such as Hudson*pointed out was the cause of the fall in the value of the constant found by Julius and attributed by him to " " mutarotation to Hudson , " " otation \ldquo ; should cause ) in the constant .
He has argued that the higher rotatory power of the first formed would make it appear that at any moment less cane had been inverted than was the case and that as this effect is greatest in the earlier of the action the constant would appear to rise .
This vument , however , is misleading , as it involves the assumption that the amount of change is measured from the very start or in any case before there is a maximum excess of in solution .
In the event of -glucose being first fo1med and equilibrium being soon attained , the excess of the more dextro-rotatory -glucose would rapidly attain to a probably long before an initial could be taken .
The excess would then decrease as the hydrolysis proceeded and the rate of inversion , instead of appearing less , would appear to be greater than the rate in the absence of " " mutarotation As the higher rotatory power of the -glucose would cause the concentration of the unhydrolysed sugar to be over-estimated , the ratio of the observed rate of inversion .
to the concentration of the cane the velocity coefficient , would probably be little , if at all , affected eithel in value or in constancy .
It will shown later that , except at the very of hydrolysis , mutarotation has no effect on the constant .
Experimental acid used Yyas purified by crystallisations of the monohydrate , .
The strength of the solution used was ascertained from its density : two determinations at gave the values and resl ) ectively ; hence 1 .
of the tion contained .
of the acid .
The cane sugar used was purified coffee sugar specially supplied by Messrs. Tate .
The molecular proportions of the various substances used in the experiments were 1 of sulphuric acid and from 30 to of water , ' Amer .
Chem. Soc. JourIl vol. 30 , p. 1160 ; vol. 32 , p. 885 .
'Zeit .
physik .
Chem 1908 , vol. 62 , p. 69 .
Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , molecular proportions of being used in the experiment with 30 and 40 of water and in those in which the proportion of water was from 40 to 200 ; in the case of the experiments with 40 of water , the same value was obtained with of sugar as with .
The experiments at the different concentrations were not duplicated , as the subsequent of the results and still more the treatment to which they were subjected in obtaining the apparent hydration values of the acid would reveal any irregularity in the values of obtained .
As there appeared to be no flaw or irregularity in any of the experiments and as the subsequent treatment of the results showed that they were perfectly uniform , there appeared to be no necessity of duplicating the indiyidual experiments .
The solutions were nlixed and the experiments carried out in the manner described in Part XII .
By means of the heated chamber used to bring the solutions to the required temperature before mixing ( see p. 580 ) , it was possil ) to obtain readings of the optical rotation very near the inning of each experiment .
The values of for the clifferent experiments deduced by of the equation ' are given in Table I. In the case of the ments with the more concentrated solutions , in which the value of the velocity coefficient obviously increased as the hydrolysis proceeded , the value corresponding to the of the interaction was found by extrapolation as described in Part XII .
Table I. Molecular proportions Molecular proportions of cane sugar .
of From the numbers given in Table I the value of the apparent molecular hydration of the acid at different concentrations was deduced by the raphic method used in Part XII in the case of the hydrolysis of cane sugar by 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
chlorhydric and nitric acids and in Part XXIII in the case of the hydrolysis of methylic acetate by chlorhydric acid .
Diagram 1 shows the results obtained by this method of analysis .
The apparent molecular hydration of the acid is equal to the number attached to any curve when the total number of molecular proportions of water present represented by the abscissae corresponds to the highest point of the curve when it is momentarily horizontal .
The values of the products iven by the Mols .
total water .
ordinates at these points are the corresponding lnolectllar hydrolyti activities .
The dark curve through the apices thus ives the values of the molecular hydrolytic activities of the acid at concentrations .
The results are set forth in Table II , the molecular olytic activity.of the acid determined in the manner described multiplied by one Lhousand .
* In Part VII of these Studies , Armstrong and Wheeler , in all investigation of the relative efficiencies of acids as deduced from their conductivities and hydrolytic activities , have described experiments carried out to determine the rate of hydrolysis of cane sugar by sulphuric acid at four concentrations , and .
Their results , however , are not suitable for the method of analysis under discussion , as an insufficient Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Table II .
Sulphuric acid being a dibasic acid , the results now brought forward are particularly interesting in comparison with those obtained previously with the monobasic chlorhydric and nitric acids .
As in the case of these latter , the degree of apparent molecular hydration of sulphuric acid increases to Mols .
total water .
number of experiments was made at the higher concentrations .
As the experiments were carried out before most of the improvements had been made in the apparatus and the method of carrying out the experiments , the accuracy attained to was probably insufficient for the purpose now in view .
Moreover , in calculating the molecular hydrolytic activities the concentration was reckoned as the proportion of acid to the total water present , not to the free water , as in the above improyed method .
Their general conclusion , however , is correct , namely : that the molecular conductivity and molecular ytic conductivity are altered in opposite directions by change of concentration .
1912 .
] lStudies of the Processes in Solutions .
a maximum as dilution proceeds , whilst the molecular hydrolytic activity of the acid decreases to a minimum .
To aid the comparison , the results are expressed graphically for the three acids and for the monobasic benzenemonosulphonic acids which I have examined recently ( Diagrams 2 and 3 ) .
It will be seen that the apparent molecular hydration values of chlorhydric and nitric acids do not reach a maximum nearly so soon as do those of acid but increase up to a dilution of 200 molecules of water per molecule of acid ; in the case of the sulphonic acids , however , this is not the case , the resemblance to sulphuric acid being very close .
It is Mols .
total water .
possible bhat the difference in the case of chlorhydric and nitric acids may be due to slightly low values been obtained for the velocity constant at the higher dilution , as these acids were the first examined ; it will , therefore , be desirable to check the results .
The curves representing the hydrolytic activities of the monobasic acids lie close together , there very little difference in the strengths of the acids ; that for the stronger sulphuric acid is higher , though of the same shape .
The similarity of the hydrolytic action of sulphuric and chlorhydric acids is further out in Diagram 4 , in which the curves represent the change in the value of the velocity coefficient with change of concentration .
In Curves and the concentration is expressed as the molecular proportions of acid to a given nber ( here 150 ) of molecular proportions of water , whilst in Curyes A and the dilution is expressed as the number of molecular proportions vater to one of acid . .
F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Curves A and reveal a point noted by Armstrong and Wheeler in Part which is not evident in Curves and .
The activity of sulphuric acid relatively to chlorhydric becomes somewhat greater as the dilution is increased .
This may be due to the radual coming into play of a second point of attack in the sulphuric acid .
Sulphuric acid in concentrated solution acts mainly , it must be supposed , as a monobasic acid .
Mols .
to 1 of acid .
( urves A and B. ) Mols .
acid to 150 of .
( Curves and It should be pointed out , however , that even though sulphuric acid in dilute solution act as a dibasic acid and be capable of hydrolysing two molecules of hydrolyte at the same time , the rate of hydrolysis will still be proportional to the concentration of the hydrolyte and not to its square , as each active point of attack of the sulphuric acid may act independently of the other .
The only observable effect will be in the degree of activity of the acid .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
Change in the Degree of Optical Inversion sis at Dilutions .
On comparing the final negative rotation at the completion of hydrolysis with the initial positive rotation of the sugar , it was found that this ratio decreased very considerably as dilution was increased .
As the solutions were brought to exactly in the heated chamber ' and transferred immediately to the polarimeter tube , which was already on the water circuit at the right temperature , the initial readings could ) taken very near the inning of the hydrolysis , the time after mixing being noted ; consequently , it was possible to find by extrapolation the approximate rotation at the time of mixing .
the experiments were carried out , the idea of comparing the initial and final rotations had not occurred and the zero taken was that found in the absence of the polarimeter tube ; consequently , the snlall error due to the optic activity of the glass discs at the ends of the tube has not been avoided .
From the results , however , it is clear that the error of extrapolation and that due to the glass discs is negligibly small in comparison with the large amount of change in the above ratio attending change of concentration .
The variation in the ratio was from for the most concentrated solution to for the most dilute .
As the ratio of sugar to acid the same in most of the experiments , it is not possible to say definitely how much of the variation is due to the variation in the concentration of the sugar and how much to that of the acid .
From the experiments with 40 molecular proportions of water to 1 of acid and respectively of sugar , it appears that the change in the ratio is not due mainly to the sugar , as practically the same yalue , viz. , and was obtained in the two experiments , whilst in the experiment with 80 of water and of sugar the value was .
The only difference this experiment and the one with 40 of water and of sugar is that the concentration of the acid is twice as great in one as in the other .
It appears , then , that the in the ratio is due , in all probability , mainly to the change in the concentration of the acid .
Table III gives the values of the ratio of the final negative rotation to the initial positive rotation at the different dilutions .
One molecular proportion of sulphuric was used throughout .
In Diagram 5 the values of the ratio of the final ative to the initial positive rotation are plotted in Curve A as ordinates ainst the total original water as abscissae .
The values are seen to be perfectly regular and to lie evenly on a curve .
If the values of the ratio are plotted against the relative concentrations of the acid ( Curve B ) a line is obtained .
VOL. LXXXVII.\mdash ; A. 2 Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Table I II .
Mols .
to 100 .
( Curve B. ) Mols .
to 1 of .
( Curve A. ) This alteration in the degree of optical inversion attending in concentration is , with little doubt , to be attributed mainly to alteration of the rotatory power of one or more of the sugars present but further investigation is necessary before the exact manner in which it is brought about can be ascertained .
It is well known that though the specific rotatory power of cane sugar and of glucose is very little affected by increase of concentration , that of fructose is made considerably more negative .
Change of rotatory power due to of concentration , bowever , is far too small to account for the efl'ect observed above ; moreover , the effect appears not to be due mainly to the concentrations of the sugar .
It is , therefore , to be supposed that the acid is responsible for the alteration .
It has long been known that the specific rotatory power of invert sugar is greatly increased by the presence of sulphuric and chlorhydric acids .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
Gubbe*has shown that if different amounts of acid are used with the same quantities of sugar and water , the increase in the rotatory power of the invert is proportional to the amount of acid present .
Preliminary experiments I have made confirm the conclusions of earlier investigators that it is the fructose and not the glucose that is mainly influenced by the presence of the acid .
In the experiments described in the present communication , the proportions of acid and sugar were kept constant throughout , that of water alone being varied .
If the observed be due to the influence of the acid on the rotatory power of the invert , this influence must vary greatly with amount of water present .
From the fact that the specific rotatory power of fructose is influenced in the same direction by the presence of acids as by increase of concentration and from the fact that the change in the amount of optical inversion described above is apparently dependent on the aqueon concentration of the acid rather than on the ratio of acid to , it appears probable that the influence of acids on the rotatory power of fructose is greatly due to their concentratin , effect .
Support is given to this idea by the fact that oxalic acid , which has little concentrating effect , was found by Gubbe to have practically no influence on the rotatory power of invel.t sugar ; also by the fact that alcohol has an opposite eHect , reducing the laevo-rotatory power of invert The evidence at present available goes to show that the effect observed is due to changes in the rotatory power of the sugars , chiefly in that of the , caused by the action of the acid on the water .
large effect produced may be attributed to chan ges in the of molecular regation rather than to changes in the degree of hydration ; it seems probable , in fact , that the polymerisation of fructose\mdash ; attended by increase of rotatory power\mdash ; would be more likely to occur in concentrated solutions and in presence of acids , whilst simplification would be brought about by rise of telnperattlre or the presence of neutral sOlvents such as the alcohols .
It is proposed to study the effect of neutral solvents on the rotatory power of fructose from this point of view .
The Validity of the netric Mof following Course of a Chemical Changj .
In Part XII of these studies and in the present communication many of the complexities of the polarimetric method of following the COUl.se of the hydrolysis of cane sugar by solutions of acids have been dealt with at 'Ber 1885 , vol. 18 , p. 2207 .
Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , some and it is now necessary to consider the degree of confidence that can be placed in deductions from results obtained by this method .
In Part XII it was shown that , in cases in which the proportion of water to sugar and acid comparatively small , difficulties are met with owing to the gradual change in the rotatory power of the solution after hydrolysis is complete and to the fact that the velocity coefficient increases in value as hydrolysis proceeds .
In less concentrated solutions , however , there is little change in the final optical value and within the narrow limits of experimental error the velocity coefficient remains constant hydrolysis proceeds .
That is to say , the rate of hydrolysis is strictly proportional to the concentration of the cane sugar when the latter , at any given time , is taken as proportional to the difference between the rotation at that time and the final rotation .
It is obvious that such possible infiuences as that of " " mutarotation\ldquo ; and of change of specific rotatory power , due either to changes of concentration or to the influence of the acid on the rotatory power of the various present , either have no effect on the constancy of the velocity coefficient or the sum of the various effects is zero .
It is none the less important to investigate the separate disturbing effects that and to ascertain whether the magnitude of the velocity coefficient be in any way affected by them .
1 .
The of an Increase in the Rotatory Power of , caused by the Presence of the Acid Catalyst.\mdash ; In the polarimetric investigation of the rate of the hydrolysis of cane sugar , the difference between the rotation at any moment and the final rotation , i.e. is taken as proportional to the amount of cane sugar remaining unhydrolysed at that moment .
[ November 28 , 1912.\mdash ; This is true even when the rotatory power of the invert is altered by the presence of the acid , provided that the rotations produced by the various sugars present are proportional to their concen trations an experiment .
For if , at ti1ne be the concentration the cane sugar and that of the invert sugar , their specific rotatory powers being and , the rotation produced by the mixture will be After complete hydrolysis , the rotation is a .
Hence .
That is to say , isproportional to the concentration of the unhydrolysed cane sugar and independent of the particular values of and ] The velocity coefficient is consequently affected neither in constancy nor in nitude by an alteration in the rotatory power of the invert sugar .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
This , however , is not the case if there be a gradual change , as hydrolysis proceeds , in the specific rotatory power of any of the sugars present changes in their concentration .
The fact that the rotatory power of fructose is made considerably more negative by increase of concentration , whilst that of cane sugar and lucose is but little affected , as Hudson*has pointed out , should cause a gradual in the value of the " " constant From iments made by Rosanoff , Clark and Sibley , however , it is not unlikely that in a sugar solution in process of hydrolysis the specific rotatory power of the invert sugar is constant .
This point is , however , in need of further investigation .
2 .
Effect of lutarotation.\mdash ; It is necessary to consider only the mutarotation of the glucose , the ument being exactly the same in the case of fructose .
On hydrolysis , each molecule of cane gives rise presumably to one of -glucose , the olucose so formed rapidly into the -form of lower rotatory power ntil equilibrium between the two forms is attained .
If the initial molecular concentration of the cane be and , at time molecules have been hydrolysed ; and if , of the molecules of -glucose that have been formed , have into the -form : then is the concentra- tion of the relnaining cane sugar , that of the -glucose and that of the -glucose .
The rate of hydrolysis of the cane is ooiven by , whence ( 1 ) and .
( 2 ) rate of of ucose into - , lucose is given by ' ( 3 ) whence .
( 4 ) The amount of glucose in equilibrium at time with of -glucose is from equation ( 3 ) equal to since when equilibrium is obtained .
Hence the amount of -glucose in excess of the equilibrium mixture is From ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and from ( 5 ) and ( 1 ) 'Amer .
Chem. Soc. Journ 1910 , vol. 32 , p. 888 .
Ibid. , 1911 , vol. 33 , Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , Now the velocity coefficient of ' ' mutarotation\ldquo ; is very much greater than that of the hydrolysis of cane sugar in acid solution .
Except , therefore , for very low values of is an extremely small quantity and may be .
The aOove ratio is thus equal to , i.e. to a constant quantity , except when is very small .
In other words , except very near the beginning of the hydrolysis , the excess of -glucose over the equilibrium mixture is proportional to the concentration of the unhydrolysed cane sugar .
In Diagram 6 , if the curve represent the change of rotation in the absence of any mutarotation effect , then when mutarotation occurs , a curve such as would be obtained , the intercepts and Time .
being proportional to the unhydrolysed cane sugar and present at times and .
As and are respectively proportional to the same quantities , it follows that .
That is to say , the difference between the rotation at any moment and the final rotation , viz. , , is still proportional to the concentration of the unhydrolysed cane sugar and the velocity coefficient except at the very beginning of hydrolysis is thus unaffected either in constancy or in magnitude by the effect of mutarotation .
It appears then that in spite of the many complexities of the polarimetric method of following the course of the hydrolysis of cane sugar , the results arrived at by the method may be accepted with a considerable degree of 1912 .
] Studies of the Processes in Solutions .
confidence .
In execution the method has nlany advantages over a chemical method ; nevertheless it is at a great disadvantage , as it is impossible , by its aid , to arrive at the true concentration of any of the changing substances and it is necessary to investigate all disturbing factors before the results arrived at can be accepted with anything like confidence .
is true of physical methods in and it must be admitted that after all , when it is possible to uleasure accurately by chemical means the amount of a substance present at a iven time , the chemical far superior to the physical .
Note on the Apparatus used in Determining the Rate of Chemical Change by Polarimetric Observations .
As the apparatus used has been altered in almost every detail and much improved , a brief account may be iven of the refinenlents that have been introduced and of the precautions that have been found in order to reduce to a the effect of the various possible sources of error .
DIAGRAM 7 .
* Originally put forward as No. XVII of these studies but withdrawn when electrical heating was introduced .
Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , In Diagram 7 is given a eneral sketch of the apparatus , showing the thermostat in association with a polarimeter and water circuit on each side .
The apparatus erected in a dark room kept at constant temperature so as to minimise the variations in the fall of temperature in the circuits .
The thermostat is kept at , so that the temperature of the polarimeter tube may be , the fall in the circuit being about C. The arrows show the course of the water from the tank through the circuits into the tubes and on through the pump back to the tank ; the tubes are provided so that the temperature of the water urning to the tank may be taken by means cf a thermometer with the bulb immersed in mercury in an inner test-tube .
It is essential to have as resistance as possible in the circuits , so that the flow of water may be rapid .
The speed of the motor is regulated by a lamI ) resistance , the rate of flow of water through each circuit being nlaintained at about 5liCres a minute .
The lettered parts are as follows:\mdash ; , copper lined wooden tank of about , 60litres capacity ; , polarimeters ; , motor , horse power , 200 yolt ; Albany rotatory bronze pump ; lamp ; -regulator ; , stirrer ; , Beckmann thermometers ; -volt Osram lamps ; , Jena glass tubes , ' A description of the polarimeter used was iven by Caldwell and In place of the adjustable slit at the far end a slit has been inserted immediately in front of the triple field nicols and the light from the me1cury arc lamp reduced to an approxin ) ately parallel beam by means of a lens between the lamp and the polarising nicol .
By this means much Jreater illumination is obtained and the beam of light is more nearly parallel in the polarimeter tube .
The vernier is ated by a candle-power 2-volt Osram lamp partially covered with tin foil , in series with a similar lamp to illuminate the note book Diagram .
By this means , when adjustment has been obtained , the vernier can be illuminated and the result recorded hout the eye being dazzled and its sensitiveness impaired .
Clock.\mdash ; The error introduced by not taking the at the moment has been greatly reduced by the use of an extremely accurate and trustworthy eight-day clock of the marine clock pattern , specially made by Messrs. Benson .
The clock has a large centre second hand and an 8-inch dial which may be faintly illuminated by a beam from the vernier lamp .
As a " " Brush Quartzlite\ldquo ; mercury arc lamp burner supplied the necessary resistance for a 200-volt circuit Brush EIectrical Part IX , ' .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , pp. 112\mdash ; 117 .
1912 .
] Studies of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
Engineering Company , Limited , is used , all measurements made with the green line .
This lamp has proved very satisfactory .
The brilliance of the light allows of the use of a very small half-shadow angle , which greatly increases the accuracy of the readings .
To prevent the light from the room , the lamp is enveloped in a thick black velvet cover .
Te , nperature Regulation.\mdash ; The thermostat is heated electl.ically by means of a 16 candle-power carbon filament lamp , Diagram 7 and Diagram 8 ) , the temperature controlled by means of a small toluene regulator made a thin-walled test-tube , Dingram 7 and , Diagram 8 ) .
This is so rapid in its action that a delicate thermo- meter fails to record any change of temperature .
From the rate at which the temperature found to fall when the lamp is kept shut off and the length of time the lamp remains extinguished when in use , it is found that the maximum temperature variation is C. The , difficulty of electrical ulation is the fouling of the mercury surface in the thermoyulator and the contact of the relay due to sparking .
This has been DIAGRAM 8 .
: 580 Mr. F. P. Worley .
[ July 29 , overcome in an ingenious way , devised by Dr. Haworth of this College , which will be easily understood by reference to Diagram 8 .
The current that is made and broken in the thermo-regulator is very small , being less than 1 milliampere ; it is derived from a Leclanche cell circuit , in series with a resistance R. current actuates a Siemens Post Office relay , which makes and breaks a larger current .
The circuit carries a current from the mains ( volts ) through a 16 candlepower carbon filament lamp as resistance .
It is divided into three parts , one of which , , is made and broken in the relay ; the second , , is a resistance of about 30 ohms ; the third , , passes round an electromagnet taken from an electric bell .
The lesistance of is adjusted so that when contact is made in circuit in the relay , the current in is not sufficient to allow the electromagnet to hold down the armature but is powerful enough to do so when the circuit is broken .
The circuit is direct from the main and includes the heating lnmp H. When contact is made at in the circuit , the circuit is completed in the relay .
In consequence the armature of the up and the circuit is broken at the platinum contact , thus shutting off the heating lamp .
The current that is made and broken in the relay is only a portion of the current in the circuit B. In addition , the presence of the circuit without such as exists in prevents sparking at the contacts in the relay .
The current in the circuit passes on to a second system regulating the temperature of an air chamber kept at C. Constant Air \mdash ; In order that solutions may be brought as nearly as possible to the temperature before mixing and immediately transferred on mixing to the polarimetric tube , also to keep the tions at constant temperature several days , if necessary , in order to examine the end points , a constant temperature chamber is established near the polarimeter .
This is heated electrically and regulated in the same way as the tank .
A small electric fan is included in the chamber .
The heating circuit is made and broken every few seconds by the thermoregulator , showing that no measurable variation of temperature occurs .
Thjrmometers .
Beckmann thermometers are kept in the tank , the return water in ( Diagram 7 ) and in the heated chamber .
They are frequently compared with a standard of excellent quality made specially by Messrs. Casella and standardised at the National Physical Laboratory .
Some Precautions that must be taken against Possible Sources of Error.\mdash ; Too much care cannot be taken to ensure accuracy and constancy of temperature .
In the apparatus described the temperature may be kept constant without attention over long intervals .
It is always advisable to 1912 .
] of the Processes Operative in Solutions .
put the solutions into the polarimeter tubes at as nearly the required temperature as possible , as it is very easy to under-estimate the time required for equilibrium of temperature to be attained .
If the jacketed tubes supplied by Schmidt and Haensch are used , care must be taken that there is no liquid in the cup , as this is not heated by the water jacket and remains cooler and denser than that in the tube ; it radually or suddenly circulates with the warmer liquid , the temperature and rendering the field indistinct , errors which are hard to locate .
In experiments in which the rate of change of rotation is great , the error in the time of taking the readings is important , as it is impossible to observe the field and the clock at the same time .
This can be boreatly reduced by shutting off the light illuminating the clock five or ten seconds before the time at which an observation is to be made and counting the remaining seconds mentally or with the aid of a ticking apparatus while observing the field .
The zero of the instrument should be ascertained before and after an experiment and especially whenever the mercury lamp is touched , as a change of several hundredths of a degree may be made by the position of the lamp .
When optical rotatory power it is to be remembered that the glass discs at the end of the tube are generally slightly optically acCive .
The zero must then be determined with the tube in position empty or filled with the solvent without touching the screw caps .
In velocity experiments several readings must be made at long intervals at the end of the change to make sure that a constant end point is obtained .
In the case of the hydrolysis of cane sugar the final negative rotation gradually becomes less negative .
For the method of dealing with this difficulty , see Part XII of this series .

