I 1882 .
] Organisation of Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
31 D'apres cela il est toujours possible de determiner le nombre et l'espece des points multiples de la courbe inverse et aussi l'ordre de la courbe ( a2 ) ou la class de la courbe ( A2 ) .
Supposons que la courbe inverse ( af ) d'une courbe L par rapport a un autre courbe _D comme directrice soit construite ; la courbe inverse ( x2 ) de la courbe ( a2 ) par rapport a se decompose en la courbe D et , un autre courbe , dont l'ordre est determine , ou reciproquement la courbe ( a2 ) a pour courbe inverse par rapport a la courbe D directrice un courbe qui se decompose en la courbe L et en un autre courbe , dont l'ordre est connu .
4 .
Le point a de la courbe proposee L a un tangente A ' a cette courbe ; cette tangente coupe la conique fondamentale C en deux points t , u. La polaire A du point a coupe la courbe directrice D en points .
La tangente B ' en un de ces points b rencontre C en deux points y , et la droite polaire B du point b coupe la droite A en un point a2 qui est un point de la courbe inverse ( a2 ) .
Considerons le point de contact comme deux points infiniment voisins ; la meme chose a lieu au point b. A ces points infiniment voisins correspondent aussi tels points dans la courbe inverse .
Ainsi la courbe inverse de l'une des droites A ' , B ' par rapport a l'autre , qui est un conique E , a avec la courbe ( a2 ) deux points infiniment voisins communs .
Ces deux courbes ont par consequent un tangente commune en ce point a2 .
La conique est plus que deter-minee par les points t , u , x , y et par a2 .
Quand les points t , ou sont imaginaires , ils sont remplaces par la tangente et son point de contact , ou respectivement par deux tangentes et leurs points de contact et par le point a2 .
Le point a2 sir la courbe inverse ( \#171 ; 2 ) etant donne nous construisons sa droite polaire par rapport a la conique fondamentale C et cherchons le point a sir Let bsur D qui correspondent au point a2 .
La conique E est alors determinee et par consequent aussi la tangente en a2 .
II .
" On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
Part XII .
" By Professor W. C. Williamson , F.R.S. Received May 4 , 1882 .
( Abstract .
) At the recent meeting of the British Association at York , Messrs. Cash and Hick read a memoir , since published in Part IV of vol. vii of the " Proceedings of the Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society , " in which they described a stem from the Halifax Carboniferous deposits characterised by a form of bark hitherto unobserved in those rocks .
To this plant they gave the name of Myriophylloides WilliamProf .
W. C. Williamson .
[ May 11 , sonis .
It was characterised by baying a large cellular medulla , surrounded by a tbin vascular zone composed of short radiating lamellae .
This , in turn , was invested by a cylinder of cortical parenchyma from which radiated a number of thin cellular laminae , like the spokes of a wheel , separating large lacunae . .
Each lamina generally consisted of a single series of cells .
At their peripheral end , these laminae merged in a thick , large-celled , cortical parenchyma .
The generic name , Myriophylloides , was given to the plant because of the resemblance between sections of its cortical tissues and those of the recent Myriophyllum .
Two reasons induced the author to object to this name ( " Nature , " December 8 , 1881 , p. 124 ) , and to propose the substitution of that of Helophyton .
Such substitution , however , was rendered unnecessary by the discovery , by Mr. Spencer , of Halifax , of some additional specimens which indicate that the supposed new plant was merely the corticated state of the Astromyelon , described by the author in his Memoir , Part IX.* These specimens showed that the plant was more complex than had been supposed , different ramifications of it having individual peculiarities .
In some of the new specimens the vasculo-medullary axes present no differences from those of the Astromyelon already described .
The radiating lines of cells separating the lacunae prove to be transverse sections of elongated vertical laminae composed of cells with a mural arrangement , and which separate large vertical lacunae of varying lengths ; a type of cortical tissue clearly indicating a plant of aquatic habits .
So far as this bark is concerned , all the ramifications of the plant display similar features , but several of the specimens exhibit important variations in the structure of the vasculo-medullary axis .
In them the central cellular medulla is replaced by an axial vascular bundle , which has little , or in some examples apparently no , cellular element intermingled with the vascular portions .
In some examples this axial bundle is invested by the thick exogenous zone seen in Astromyelon .
In others that zone is wholly wanting .
Yet there appears to be ' no reason for doubting that these are but varied states of the same plant which branched freely , the differentiated branches having , doubtless , some morphological significances , as yet incapable of being explained .
That the plant was a Phanerogam allied to Myriophyllum is most improbable .
It has several features of resemblance to the Cryptogamic Marsilese , from which it does not differ more widely than the fossil Lepidodendra do from the living Lycopodiacese .
The author describes a new specimen of Psaronius Renaultii , found by Mr. Wild , of Ashton-under-Lyne .
Those previously described consisted almost entirely of fragments of the bark and its serial rootlets .
The present specimen contains a perfect C-shaped fibro-vascular bundle and a portion of a second one , resembling some of .
those * " Phil. Trans. , " 1878 .
1882 .
] Organisation of Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
33 described by Corda , and which leave no room for doubting that our British Coal-measures contain at least one arborescent fern , equal in magnitude to those obtained from the deposits at Autun .
In his Memoir , Parts IX and X , the author described under the provisional generic name of Zygosporites , some small spherical bodies with furcate peripheral projections .
Similar bodies had been met with in France^ and were regarded by some of the French palaeontologists as true Carboniferous .
representatives of the Desmidiaceae .
The author was unable to accept this conclusion , deeming it much more probable that they would prove to be spores of a different kind .
Mr. Spencer exhibited the specimen now described at the York meeting .
It is a true sporangium , containing a cluster of these Zygosporites .
Though they undoubtedly bear a close superficial resemblance to the zygospores of the Desmidiae , their enclosure within a common sporangium demonstrates them to be something very different .
There is now no doubt but that they are the spores of the strobilus described by the author in his Memoir , Part V , under the name of Volkmannia Dawsoni .
Hence the genus Zygosporites may be cancelled .
Another interesting specimen found by Mr. Wild is a young Calamite , with a more curiously differentiated bark than any that has hitherto been discovered .
The structure of the vascular cylinder and of the innermost layer of the bark differs in no essential respect from those previously described ; but the outermost portion displays an entirely new feature .
It consists of a narrow zone of small longitudinal prosenchymatous bundles , each one having a triangular section , the apex of each section being directed inwards , whilst their contiguous bases are in contact with what appears to be a thin epidermal layer .
As in every previously discovered Calamite in which the cortex is preserved , the peripheral surface of this specimen is perfectly smooth or entire .
It displays no trace of the longitudinal ridges and furrows seen in nearly all the traditional representations of Calamites figured in our text-books .
It has long been seen that the medullary cells of the Lepidodendra , as well as the vessels of their non-exogenous medullary sheaths , steadily increased in number as these two organs increased in size correlatively with the corresponding general growth of the plants .
But the way in which that increase was brought about has continued to be a mystery .
The author now describes a Lepidodendron of the type of L. Harcourtii in which nearly every medullary cell is subdivided into two or more younger cells , showing that , when originally entombed , the pith was an extremely active form of meristem , though the branch itself had attained to a diameter of at least two inches .
The numerous small young cells are of irregular form .
Their development by further giowth into a regular parenchyma would inevitably necessitate a corresponding increase in the diameter of the branch as a whole ; VOL. xxxiv .
* " 34 Organisation of Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures .
[ May 11 , .
and it must have been from these newly-formed cells that the medullary cylinder obtained the elements out of which to construct the additional vessels , the increase of which has been shown to be the-invariable accompaniment of the growth of the branch .
As might be expected , the growth of the vascular cylinder or medullary sheath could only have been a centripetal one .
A new form of Halonia from Arran is described .
, Instead of its .
central portion consisting , as in previously described examples , of the-usual Lepidodendroid : medulla , surrounded by a vascular cylinder , it consists of a solid axis of vessels , resembling in this respect all the very young Lepidodendroid twigs previously described from the same-locality .
Many recently obtained specimens of Lepidodendroid branches sustain the author 's previous observations that all examples from Arran having less than a certain diameter have the solid axial bundle ; whilst all above that diameter have a cylindrical vascular-bundle enclosing a cellular medulla .
The first type commences with the smallest twigs , and is found increasing gradually up to the diameter referred to .
The second type begins where the other ends , and increases in diameter until attaining the dimensions of the largest stems , in none of which does the solid bundle reappear .
Halonial branches have not hitherto been described attached to the branches of ' any true Lepidodendron , though , in 1871 ( Memoir , Part II ) , thp author gave reasons , based upon organisation , for insisting that Halonia was a fruit-bearing branch of a Lepidodendroid tree .
This conclusion was sustained by Mr. Carruthers in 1873 in his description of a branch belonging to a Lepidophloios .
The author now figures a magnificent example , from the museum of the Leeds Philosophical Society , of a dichotomous branch of a true Lepidodendron of the type of L. elegans and L. Selaginoides .
In this specimen every one of the several terminal branches bears the characteristic Halonial tubercles .
The leaf-scars of these latter branches have the rhomboid form once deemed characteristic of the genus Bergeria , whilst those of the lower part of the specimen are elongated as in L. elegans , \amp ; c. These differences are not due to their appearance in separate cortical layers of the branch , but to the more rapid growth in length of its-lower part compared with its transverse growth .
The author throws some additional light upon the structure of Sporocarpum omatum described in Memoir , Part X , as also Upon the nature of the development of the double leaf-bundles seen in transverse sections of the British Dadoxylons , described in Memoir IX .
After a prolonged but vain search for a similar structure amongst the twigs of the recent Conifers , the author has at length found them in the young twigs of the Salisburia Adiantifolia .
Sections of these twigs made immediately below their terminal buds exhibit this geminal arrangement in the most exact manner .
Pairs of foliar bundles are On certain Geometrical Theorems .
1882 .
] given off from the thin , exogenous , Xylem zone which encloses the medulla , whilst at the same points the continuity of the Xylem ring is interrupted , as was also the case with the Dadoxylons , by an extension of the medullary cells into the primitive cortex .
Sections of the petiolar bases of the leaf-scales of the bud show that these bundles enter each petiole in parallel pairs , subsequently subdividing and ramifying in the Adiantiform leaf .
This curious resemblance between Salisburia and Dadoxylon , accompanied as it is by other resemblances in the structure of the wood , bark , and medulla , suggest the probability that our British Dadoxylon was a Carboniferous plant of Salisburian type , of which Trigonocarpum may well have been the fruit .
If so , the further possibility suggests itself that this plant may have been the ancestral form whence sprang the Baieras of the Oolites , and , through them , the true Salisburias of Cretaceous and of recent times .
The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday , May 25 .
May 25 , 1882 .
THE PRESIDENT in the Chair .
The Presents received , were laid on the table and thanks ordered for them .
Mr. Bindon Blood Stony was admitted into the Society .
The following Papers were read :\#151 ; I. " On certain Geometrical Theorems .
No. 2 .
" By W. II .
L. Russell , F.R.S. Received May 10 , 1882 .
( 4 .
) The following is a short method of determining the conic of 5 pointic-contact with a given curve .
Write the conic ay + l3xy=y'2 + fix'z + vx + p ... ... ... . .
( 1 ) , then differentiating four times and writing D for \#151 ; , we have , redx/ membering that the four first differential coefficients of the two curves coincide , \#151 ; t* Die + ftD(xy)=T)y ' + 2jux-\-r.(2 ) , aD2y -f/ 3D2(a ?
y ) = D2i/ 2 -j- 2/ t ... ... ... ..(3 ) , aD$y+(3~D3(xy)=Dsy2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
( 4 ) ?
\#171 ; D4y+/ 3Dh\gt ; y)=Dh/ 2 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..(5 ) ;

