]\gt ; $ The Photographic Action of the -Particles emitted from Radioactive Substances .
* By S. KINOSHITA .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received November 25 , \mdash ; Read December 9 , 1909 .
) It has been shown by that the photographic action of -particles stops suddenly when the thickness of an interposed aluminium screen is increased beyond a certain value .
It is noticeable that the thickness of the screen required to completely stop photographic action is identical with that required to stop ionisation in gases and scintillationsS of a phosphorescent screen caused by -particles .
The firsb object of the present experiments was to investigate the manner in which the photographic action of -particles varies along their path , and to see if there is any connection between this and the well-known variation of the ionisation produced in gases .
This having been accomplished , relation was found between the photometric density of the film produced on development and the number of -particles incident upon it .
Experiments were then made to see whether a single -particle produced a detectable photographic effect .
We define the raphic action of the -particles on a sensitive film as the relative amount of the silver halide altered under the influence of the particles and thus rendered capable of development .
A measure of the action is therefore the photometric density of the film on complete development , this quantity being proportional to the amount of silver contained in the film .
Hurter and have shown that if is the density after development for time , then , A brief account of this paper was communicated to the meeting of the British Association at ) Phil. July , ) , Jan. and April , 1906 .
Brag and Kleeman , ' Phil. Mag Dec. , 1904 , and Sept. , 1905 .
Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag vol. 12 , p. 145 .
As is usual , is delined as , where is the intensity of the incident and I that of the transmitted light .
V Hurter and Driffield , " " Photog .
Journ 1898 ; Eder , ' Beitrage sir Photochemie Spektral-Analyse , ' 1904 ; uther , ' Zeit . .
Phys. Chem 1900 ; Sheppard and Mees , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc p. 452 , 1905 .
' .
Soc. Chem. Ind May , 1890 .
Photographic Action of the a-Particles , etc. being the density which would be reached by infinitely development and a constant .
Therefore if exactly similar films are developed under identical conditions , the density will in each case be proportional to the density , which ives the magnitude of the change in the film .
* After repeated failures to obtain concordant results with ordinary commercial plates and developers , it was essential to use special plates and to use great precautions in developing .
In the experiments , Wratten 's " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; and " " Ordinary\ldquo ; emulsions thinly coated on patent were employed , the central portion only of the plate being used .
Except where otherwise mentioned , the plates were developed in a solution of ferrous sulphate in 2 potassiunl oxalate for 20 minutes , which time was found to be sufficient for even development throughout the thin film used .
Each series was done simultaneously , so that the temperatures of development were the same .
The temperature , being that of the room , varied only between C. and C. on different occasions .
Density measurements were made with a Konig 's spectro-photometer , green being always used .
Thus , for films from the same plate the density was proportional to the amount of silver halide altered .
Now the -particles emitted by ordinary radio-active substances are heterogeneous , and are consequently not suited for quantitative experiments of this nature .
Those emitted by a thin layer of radium , however , are ogeneous and have an initial velocity of cm .
per second .
The number of the particles falling on a known area of the film an exposure can be calculated from the known decay curye of radium C. provided that the -ray activity of the radium is once determined in terms of a radium standard .
Suppose that a narrow beam of the homogeneous and evenly distributed -rays from radium falls on a film of thickness ] to its surface with their initial velocity .
Provided that the film is uniformly made and developeo1 , the density would be in a thin of the film between two planes at distances and ) cctively f the surface will be a function of and the number of which have passed } ] unit area of this and the velocil ) of the particles in * It must ) relnembeled that is only true for a very fiIln , hich we CR11 develop the surface bottom to an equal extent , thick which it is imp ssible to develop evenly , even in the course of or three houls .
herford , 'Phil .
Mag , 1907 . .
S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the Since the velocity of the particles would be uniform in the layer , we can take as an independent variable in place of .
Thus , and the density of the film , which we can measure by means of a ectrophotometer , is its integral value , as Since in the case of ordinary light the intensity of the light decreases through the film according to an exponential law with the distance traversed , the relation between the exposure and the density produced can be determined without taking much account of the thickness of the film , so long as it is the same in each case .
In the present experiments , however , if the thickness of the film is less than the range of the -particles in the substance , ths particles can pass it and still have photographic action .
If the rays are screened by a layer of matter of uniform thickness before they reach the surface of the film , the photographic action may stop in the film at a certain distance from the surface , this distance depending on the velocity of the incident rays .
Consequently we have to take the actual thickness of the film into consideration , and to deal with or , which is proportional to the actual photographic action of -particles with the velocity corresponding to the distance , previously traversed by the particles .
For convenience we shall call the difftjr(jntial density\ldquo ; at distance has a meaning also in non-sensitive substances like aluminium or air , if we take it to mean the photographic action which would be produced on a sensitive film after the -particles had traversed a thickness of these substances .
Variation of Photographic Action with the Thickness of Aluminiurn Screens .
The apparatus employed for this purpose is shown in section in fig. 1 .
; 1909 .
] -Particles emitted SUbstances .
435 and B2 are solid concentric brass cylinders through both of which 10 holes of mm. diameter are radially bored .
The holes can be covered with any desired number of alumininm sheets of uniform at the outer ends , over which the raphic plates cm .
, are placed , distance of the plates from the axis of the cylinders being cm .
These two cylinders fit in a metal box over the circular projection which forms a part of the box .
When the box is sealed , a circular steel rod , of diameter mm. , which is coated with the active deposit from the radium emanation , goes through a central hole in and can be kept along the axis of the cylinders by means of an conical joint .
In order to prevent the -rays from the rod on the raphic plate before all is ready , the external cylinder is turned so that the holes in are closed .
One end of fits into a disc ( outside the box ) by which it may be kept in rotation .
The whole apparatus is brought into a netic field to deflect the -rays to the walls of the holes .
After the box to a pressure of 2 or 3 mm. of mercury with a Fleuss pump , the holes are opened without changing the internal pressure , by turning with the rod , which projects a hole in the box , being kept fixed by a plug .
The and -rays are then in a position to act on the photographic plate .
When the necessary exposure has been given , is turned to the closed position .
It was found that when was not rotated during the exposure the densities of the raphs taken without any screen were not the same , the non-uniform distribution of the active deposit on , the maximum difference being sometimes 25 per cent. This was reduced to about 2 per cent. when was constantly rotated during au exposure .
The holes were then covered with , 1 , 2 , . .
9 sheets of aluminium foil , each hing 0 gramme per square centimetre .
When the experiments were fimshed with these numbers they were altered to , 1 , 8 , 9 , . .
16 , and a similar sPlies of experiments was performed .
In each case the exposure commenced at least half an hour aftel ' the removal of from the emanation vessel , so that the number of } ) articles emitted from radium A was compared with that from radium C. Table I gives the experimental results , being average of sevoral experiments .
They are graphically in I and II in .
, the representing the IlulnI of the aluminium sheets and the ordinates the corresponding densities .
It can be seen that first remains constant as , the number of aluminium Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the sheets , increases , but begins to decrease at for the " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; plates and at for the " " Ordinary\ldquo ; plates , in both cases vanishing at Table I. BE SHEETS 1909 .
-Particles envitted from -active The general character of these curves remained the same ior any value of , and therefore the expression for assumes the form* , ( 1 ) where is a function of only and , that of only , being proportional to the " " differential density We have , therefore , to deduce the latter from the experimental curves , which are different for different plates , taking the thickness of the film and the relative powers of the aluminium and the film into consideration .
If the rays are screened by sheets of aluminium foil , the velocity of the -rays incident on the film is decreased to the value corresponding to that at being the thickness of each aluminium sheet and the ratio of the retarding power of the aluminium to that of the film .
Therefore , the density of the film corresponding to is Differentiating this with respect to , we get From the experimental results obtained , is constant for value of between and for the " " Instantaneou , s\ldquo ; plate .
Therefore is constant for a range of values of between and , where , or the number of aluminium sheets equivalent to the film , was determined in the way:\mdash ; From other experiments with separable films , made of the same emulsion , it was found that the weight of the film of that thickness at which photographic action stops is gramme per square centimetre .
The weight of the film on the " " Instantaneous \ldquo ; plate was , ramme per square centimetre , so that this film was equivalent to sheets of sheets .
Consequently , is seen to remain constant as increases from to , and then rapidly and vanish at .
This is show1 ) in fig. 2 , curve The equivalent number of aluminium sheets of the film on the " " Ordinary\ldquo ; * Since the of is small and the density is measured in the central portion of each photograph ( the dianleter being the same as that of the hole ) , can be regarded as independent Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the [ Nov. 25 , plate was similarly found to be , and the same deduction brings out a similar curve for , as would be expected .
Thus curves depend on the thickness of the film where the " " differential density\ldquo ; is the same .
If the film is thick enough to stop the -particles , the curve would be like Curve III in fig. 2 .
Thickly coated plates were specially prepared to test this point .
Contrary to expectation , however , it was that the curve could not be obtained , .
the reason being that we cannot develop the surface and bottom of such thick films to the same extent , even in the course of two or three hours ' development .
The thinner the film , the nearer will vary as itself .
A very thin collodion film was prepared , but in this case the difficulty of obtaining a perfectly even film made a quantitative measurement of impossible .
The density did not vary much with the number of aluminium sheets from to 12 , but fell off abruptly between 12 and 14 sheets , which still supports the above reasoning .
The photographic action of the -rays in these observations was found to be ible , and was practically eliminated ss of the Action in the Film itself .
Since we cannot develop a thick film uniformly , we have either to cut such a film into very thin layers before development , or to use strata of separable films , and develop each simultaneously .
The first method being impracticable , the second method was adopted .
For this purpose , a thin film was coated on a celluloid sheet from which the filtn could be detached .
Several sheets of these loose films were placed at the end of the uncovered hole in the apparatus described in fig. 1 .
They were then exposed to the -rays in a manner similar to that employed in the case of plates and then placed on a wel gelatine plate .
When dry , they were developed as usual .
The results were rather qualitative in nature , owing to the difficulty of and to the unevenness of the loose films\mdash ; an which cannot be avoided .
In most cases , the densities of the first four layers of the films were nearly the same , while the fifth layer had sometimes a very small or zero density , varying with different sheets of the film from which the loose films were taken .
By the film and measuring its area , it was found that the weight of the film which can cut off the photograpbic action was per square centimetre .
It is , therefore , reasonable to suppose that the variation of the ' differential density\ldquo ; is the same as that which we obtained for aluminium , the only differen ce the unequal retarding powers of the substances .
1909 .
] -Particles emitted from -active Substances .
with of Photographic , using Air at Atr Pressure .
The apparatus employed for this ation was similar to that shown ' ; in , except that the distance of plate from the central axis of the rod varied as given in Column II , Table II .
In this case , , the number of -particles incident upon unit area of the plate at distance during exposure will be inversely proportional , thus is the value at unit distance , the measurement of which will be described later .
A series of otographs was taken in and the other in air at atmospheric pressure .
The densities of the plates observed are iven in Columns and being per square centimetre in the former case and per square centimetre in the latter .
Table II .
We have , therefore , to deduce corresponding densities for the same number of articles from the observed values .
From another series of experiments , discussed later , it was found that the density of film " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; employed , varied with the number of -particles as .
Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the [ Nov. 25 , If is the corresponding value of for per sq .
cm .
, then hese are given in Columns and VIII .
Thus the densities of the photographs taken in vacuo , when deduced for the same number of -particles , are the same for each case , within the limits of error of observation .
This might have been expected , as there is no absorption .
The relative values of the deduced densities given in Column VIII are represented graphically in fig. 2 ( the points marked o ) .
For this case , one sheet of aluminium corresponds to cm .
of air .
It will be seen from that figure that the curve connecting these points* coincides with Cnve I , showing that the " " differential density\ldquo ; , and therefore the variation of the photographic action along the path of -particles in air is similar to that in aluminium , the only difference being the unequal retarding powers of the substances .
The aluminium sheet of sufficient thickness to } ) the raphic action has a weight ) square centimetre of gramme .
In the case of the film the corresponding weight is and for air , all the three quantities being of the same order .
Determination of or the Variation of the Density with the Ntumber of -Particles falling on the Film .
If identical films are exposed to the -particles emitted by a thin layer of radium at equal distances from the layer , is constant in each case , hence is proportional to , as is seen from equation ( 1 ) .
To investigate the connection between the density of a film and the number of -particles incident upon it , the appalatus of fig. 3 was used .
A photographic plate , 40 cm .
cm .
, was arranged to slide over the end of a cylindrical hole of 5 mm. diameter made in a metal cylinder , along the axis of which -rays are expelled from radium deposited on the cylindrical part of a steel rod mm. in diameter .
This was placed at a distance of cm .
from the plate .
The whole apparatus , protected from and placed between the poles of an electro-magnet , only and -rays could reach the film , while -rays were deflected to the walls of the hole .
By means of a shutter , the -rays could be cut off when desired .
was * The values for distances less than cm .
were found to be constant .
This was done by partially evacuating the box in which the apparatus was placed .
Similar experiments were made with ' Ordinary\ldquo ; plates , but the detail is omitted , the results being the same .
@ $ 1909 .
] rtides emitted from Radio-active Substances .
previously exposed to the radium emanation until ctive equilibrium had been established .
If the time at which is removed from the emanation vessel is known , the number of -particles emitted by the radium during the exposure can be calculated from its known decay curve .
The total number of -particles expelled from the radium was determined by measuring its -ray activity with a standardised electroscope , and taking as the number of the -particles expelled per second by 1 gramme of pure radium in equilibrium with its products .
* By sliding the photographic plate across the opening a series of photographs ( 10 to 15 ) could be taken on one plate , the time and the interval of each exposure being FIG. 3 .
noted .
We have shown that the photographic action of the -rays is constant over a range of cm .
in air .
In this case , the film of the plate " " Ordinary\ldquo ; was equivalent to cm .
of air , and that of the plate " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; cm .
These plates being placed at a distance of cm .
from the radium the " " differential density\ldquo ; is therefore constant throughout the film in both cases .
The radium used as the source of -particles is not constant in amount , but decreases according to the law of successive changes in radio-active substances , and it is not priori certain whether the photographic action can be expressed in terms of the total number of the -particles , which have fallen on the film during the exposure , or if it is , function of some function such as It may be recalled that in the case of light the density is not a function of , but of , I being the intensity of the light and a constant ( about ) .
To decide this question , a series of photographs was taken in which the time of exposure varied in such a way that the total number of -particles * Rutherford and Geiger , ' Boy .
Soc. Proc , vol. 81 , p. 156 , 1908 .
Schwarzschild , ' Phot .
Korr 1896 , p. 171 ; Sir W. de W. Abney , 'Phot .
Journ Oct. , 1893 ; Eder , ' Jahrbuch , ' 1899 , p. 457 .
Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Action of the [ Nov. was the same in each case , while the intensity was decreasing from its initial value to about 3 per cent. in the course of three hours .
The results are given in Table III , the total number being per square centimetre of the film .
Table III .
Plate , " " Ordinary \ldquo ; ; pressure , 761 mm. ; temperature , C. ; No. Plate , " " Ordinary \ldquo ; ; pressure , 761 mm. ; temperature , C. ; No. Plate , " " Ordinary \ldquo ; ; pressure , 761 mm. ; temperature , C. ; No. Plate , " " Ordinary \ldquo ; ; pressure , 761 mm. ; temperature , C. ; No. Plate , " " Ordinary \ldquo ; ; pressure , 761 mm. ; temperature , C. ; No. Plate , " " Ordinary \ldquo ; ; pressure , 761 mm. ; temperature , C. ; No. Thus is constant when is constant , and is independent of the intensity of the rays so long as is the same .
Consequently the density can be expressed in terms of for any intensity of the -rays .
This having been established , experiments were next undertaken to deter- mine the relation between the number of -particles and the photometric density of the film produced .
Experiments were performed in a similar manner to those just described , the details of which may be seen in Tables and In fig. 4 the densities are plotted against the numbers of -particles which have fallen on unit area of the film .
The points marked ( o ) represent the results of one series of experiments and those marked and another .
Care was taken to use parts of the same plate when a comparison was required between two series ; this was necessary owing to a variation in the thickness of the films on different plates .
The curves actually drawn are theoretical curves to which reference will be made later .
The actual photo-process undergone by the silver halides in the emulsion film is not yet known .
We shall , however , disregarding the molecular con- stitution of the product , attempt to find a law according to which the density of the film produced varies with the number of -particles incident upon it .
1909 .
] -Particles nitted from Radio-active bstances .
443 Table Plate , : Instantaneous ; " " pressure , mm. ; telnpel .
A ture , C. ; temperature of develo } ) meant , ) C. ; ?
) * The zero point of the trulllent was 50 , the fog density , is about automatically eliminated .
No. 1 No. ere l1lcdsured by No. 4 .
it density .
Table Plate , " " Ordinary pressure , 762 mm. ; temperatule , C. ; Temperature of developnlent , C. ; Let be the amount of silver in its initial state , in unit area of the film when -particles have fallen on it .
The silver } ) is VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 11 FIG. 4 .
imbedded in gelatine in the colloidal state , and we assume that each of these halide grains , when struck by a certain number of -particles , changes to which is different from , either physically or chemically , and which is more susceptible to development than .
If the halide grains are initially uniformly distributed in the film , the rate of change from to , i.e. the decrease of , will be proportional to the amount of which remains unchanged .
Thus , so that where is a constant and is the initial value of might , on further bombardment by -particles , change to , differing from , either chemically or physically , and having a different reducibility .
The number of -particles required to effect the from to would not necessarily be the same as that required to effect the change from to On the above assumptions , these changes may be represented analytically in an exactly similar way to the successive changes in radio-active substances .
If represents the amount of silver in the state when -particles have fallen on the film , then where is a constant of just as is a constant of probably being * Radio-activity , ' 2nd edition , p. 331 .
1909 .
] -Particles emitted from Substances .
small compared with .
If the films are simultaneously developed , then .
first increases with and then , after attaining a maximum value at , it decreases .
If , i.e. does not undergo any further change by the -particles , the expression for becomes .
This curve is represented graphically in fig. 4 , the following values for the constants:\mdash ; for " " Instantalleous\ldquo ; plate , and for " " Ordinary\ldquo ; plate .
It will be seen from that the values of the observed densities well on the theoretical curves deduced from the above assumptions .
In one experi1nent the steel rod was exposed to the radium emanation ( the activity of which was equivalent to about 100 milligrammes of radium ) and the first photograph was taken exposing the film for three hours to -particles emitted .
For the next one double the exposure was given and for the third three times the exposu re .
However , no phenomena of reversal was observed .
In the case of light , if is the exposure necessary to produce unit density in a film , the exposure required to effect a reversal of density is of the order of , although this depends on the quality and thickness of the film and also on the development .
The number of -particles required to produce unit density in the film " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; employed was about per square centimetre , and in the above experiment , although such active ema1lation was used and the process repeated , the number of -particles falling on the film was only sq .
cm .
, .
about 37 times the value .
Consequently this is not a proof that a reversal of density may not be produced by making sufficiently great .
However , it is evident that is small compared with , if indeed it has any existence , and the experimental results agree with the expression deduced above , .
The maximum density depends on the quality of the film and is proportional to the thickness of the film so long as the -particles can penetrate it .
To produce unit density in the film ' Instantaneous\ldquo ; employed , for the former and for the latter .
The of the PhotocJraph Action of -Partides .
We shall now determine the number of -particles required to change one silver halide grain .
Difl'erentiating the equation and omitting the suffixes , we have ndependent oumber ofMicroscopic examination oparticles , old bncreased upfllm showed tilver grains to a certain limit ( which depends on the quality of the emulsion ) on prolonging the time of development .
Therefore we may assume for a first approximation that the mass of each grain on complete development is constant and that the number of the grains is proportional to .
Thus and : where is the number of the rains which would be present in unit area of a film of the maximum density .
Substituting these values in the above equation , we have If we take the corresponding values of and in a film of very small density , is igibly small compared with , and therefore In order to determine the number of -particles required to change one : halide grain , the value of in the above equation must be obtained .
It has already been shown that the values of from Curves I and II , fig. 4 , are @ for the plate " " Instantaneous for the plate " " Ordinary The direct counting of individual grains over a small area sq .
cm .
of plates was done by means of a microscope of diameters .
It was found impossible to determine directly , as the grains were too densely packed in the film for counting , but by taking a plate upon which a small number of -particles had been allowed to fall , the } presented no great difficulty .
By making use of the relation was at once determined .
*Actually may be regarded as the average mass of the graius .
1909 .
] bicles emitted from Radio-actire Substances .
The photograph produced by the -particles was a dark circular area , outside which was a portion of very density due to -rays and probably to fog .
These two factors must also have affected the darker area , and allowance has been made for them , may be seen in the examples .
'1 Plate " " Instantaneous No. 7 , iven in Table ] The number of grains in .
cm .
of dark area 210 outside dark area 52 , Difference due to the particles ) , 158 per sq .
cm .
Plate " " Ordinary No. 7 ; given in Table The number of grains in .
cm .
of area outside dark ) , , \ldquo ; Diffel.ence ( due to the -particles ) ) erefore for the plate " " Instantancons and for the plate " " Orctinary Thus is a quantity of the order unity for both films , the increase in ' the number of grains is nearly equal to that in th 1lumber of the -particles .
This at once points to the conclusion that a halide rain ulay be when struck by a single -particle .
To ascertain the actual number of -particles which struck each vrain , we must know the distribution of the halidc rains in the emulsion film and also their dimensions , since:\mdash ; ( 1 ) Some -particles might pass through the film without of the halide rains ; ( 2 ) Some -particles might strike more than one halide grain ; ( 3 ) Or some halide grains be struck by more than one -particlo .
The following considerations , Ilowever , throw some light on these ( 1 ) The " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; film of very high density is entirely covered with silver grains .
Therefore , it was not likely that the -particles passed the film without striking any halide grains .
The " " Ordinary\ldquo ; film of maximum density was almost covered with silver Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the [ Nov. 25 , grains , about 10 per cent. of the area being estimated as allowing -particles to pass through without contact with the grains .
( 2 ) In the " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; film of small density about one-third of the crrains wers overlapping others .
Therefore , on the average about 30 to 35 per cent. of the -particles each struck two halide grains in passing through the film .
In the " " Ordinary\ldquo ; film the overlapping was negligible , so that one -particle did not strike more than one halide grain .
( 3 ) Iu these films of very small density in question the grains are very diffusely distributed and it is improbable that one halide grain would be struck by more than one -particle .
From the above facts , it can be seen that in the " " Instantaneous " " film an -particle always struck at least one halide grain , and one-third of the -particles on the average struck two halide grains .
The " " Ordinary\ldquo ; film nearly fulfilled the condition that one -particle should always strike one and only one halide grain .
The deviation of from unity being thus explained by the above consideration , it is clear that a halide grain becomes developable when struck by one -particle .
numbers of silver grains square centimetre ( or , in cases of over- lapping , groups of grains ) counted by means of the microscope are given below for comparison with the number of -particles incident upon the same area .
An " " Ordinary\ldquo ; plate ( a part of the above-mentioned plate ) exposed to light and similarly developed was examined under the microscope .
The number of grains per unit area in this film was found to be greater than that in the film of the same density which had been exposed to -rays , and the variation in size of the ' was much greater .
This shows that the above results are not accidental .
Table \mdash ; Plates " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; given in Table 1909 .
-Particles ernitted from Radio-active Substances .
Table \mdash ; Plates " " Ordinary\ldquo ; given in Table ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; We are now in a position to elncidate the actual mechanism of the photographic process effected by -particles .
If -particles travel through a gas , they ionise the gas , .
break up the gas molecules into ions .
The ions thus formed recombine amongst themselves or , if an electric force be applied , produce a current .
From the experiments of Brag and Kleeman , recently of Geiger , it is known that the ionisation in gases per unit path increases at first , reaches maximum ( about times the initial value ) near the end of the ( about 93 per cent. of the , and then rapidly diminishes to zero .
Since the absorption in a is due to ionisation , it is reasonable to suppose that the absorption in a solid , which is of the same character as in , is due to ionisation of a similar type .
The reason that the ionisation of the silver halide , under this circumstance , is not followed by recombination is probably due to the fact that the medium , e.g. the gelatine , absorbs the liberated ions .
We shall now show that the ionisation of the abovementioned type in the emulsion film can produce the photographic action , which , as we have observed , remains )nstant as the distance traversed by the jles increases over a certain range ( about 96 cent. of the total ) and then rapidly diminishes to zero .
It has been shown that the number of grains depends only on the exposure , .
on the number of -particles falling on the film .
Moreover , the size of the grains increases to a certain limit on development , which depends on the quality of the film but on the number of the * Brag and KleeInan , .
cit. Geiger , ' Roy .
Soc. Proc May , 1909 .
Abney , 'Photo .
News , ' Aug. , 1882 ; H. B. Baker , 'Chem .
Soc. Journ p. , 1892 ; Hitchcock , ' Amer .
Chem. Journ vol. 11 , p. 474 ; vol. 13 , p. 273 .
Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the [ Nov. 25 , -particles .
These experimental facts show that , if some of the halide molecules within rain are initially ionised by an -particle , the whole grain becomes capable of development , but the reduction cannot extend to yrains which have not been initially ionised .
Suppose an -particle penetrates halide grains centrally , one after the other , then the magnitude of ionisation in each grain is not the same , but increases one after the other and is a 1naximum in the grain occupying a position nearly at the end of the path of the -particle .
When , however , the film is completely developed , all the grains are reduced to a constant limit , which is of the primary ionisation , and depends on the size of halide grains in the emulsion film , and thus we obtain silver grains as a secondary consequence of the ionisation , so that the photographic action is constant throughout the of the -particle in the substance .
This explains why the photographic action fails to exhibit the characteristic features of the ionisation curve to which reference has just been made .
The reason why the photographic action is notConstant up to the end of the total range can be explained from the fact , of which I was informed by Dr. , that a fraction of the -particles is already stopped a few millimetres before the actual end of the range .
Let us now interpret the constant , which enters into the expression and characterises the photographic films .
We have deduced the equation from the and proved that each halide grain is rendered capable of development when struck by an -particle .
Consequenlly is the probability of one halide being struck by an -particle , and therefore will be the ratio of the area of the projection of each ] grain to a plane perpendicular to the direction of the motion of the -particle to 1 sq .
cm .
If be the average radius of the halide grains , supposing these to be spherical , then Consequently cm .
for the plate Instantaneous , \ldquo ; and cm .
for the plate\ldquo ; Ordinary To test this assumption we may deduce the mass of silver per square Strictly speaking , the sphere of action must be taken , but the grains being exceedingly large compared with molecular dimensions , the error due to this cause will not affect the calculation to estimate the approximate order of magnitude .
' 1909 .
] emitted from -active Substances .
451 centimetre of a film a known number of grains and compare it with that calculated from its photometric density ( amount of silver per square centimetre in gramme* ) .
Table ' InstantaneousPlate N\ldquo ; given in Table \ldquo ; given in Table ' InstantaneousPlate N\ldquo ; given in Table Plate No. 7 , , , Plate No. 7 " " ntaneous , " " Ordinary , given in given in Table able I , radius of halide grains . . .
V , volume occupied by halide ' number of grains per sq .
cm Mass of silver bromide per .
cm .
in gramn1e 108 .
Mass of silver per sq .
cm .
\mdash ; 111 gramme Mass of silver calculated from density ' Bearing in mind the fact that the conversion of silver halide to metallic silver is not carried to completion , the agreement between the values obtained by the two methods is seen to be quite satisfactory .
raphic Act ion of In the experiments described , we have and -rays accompanying the -rays , and some experiments were performed to determine the photographic effect of the former .
When the rays ( for apparatus see figs. 1 and 3 ) were screened by a sIleet of aluminium , the thickness of which was just sufficient to cut off the -rays , no appreciable density was observed in the film for exposures which , in the case of -rays , would produce densities of 2 or .
On a very active deposit of radium , and a sufficiently long exposure , the exposed part of the plate became darkened , but there was no sharp line of demarcation , showing the great penetrating power of the -rays .
Thus , the action of -rays on the film employed is seen to be ibly small compared with that of the -rays .
It must be remembered that we are not speaking of the total power of -rays in the film .
On account of their great penetrating power , the range of the photographic action of the -rays is several thousand times greater than that oi the -rays .
The raphic action of -rays in the film employed was about one-third or one-quarter of that of -rays .
* Sheppard and Mees , .
cit. VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A. 2 I Mr. S. Kinoshita .
Photographic Action of the [ Nov. 25 , Since -rays are more penetrating than -rays , the total power of affecting a photographic film may be ) yreater than that of the -rays .
It is difficult to compare quantitatively the photographic action of and -rays , the initial velocities and laws of absorption being different .
The Variation of Film jnsity with\mdash ; ( 1 ) The number of incident -particles .
( 2 ) The intensity of the incident light .
While the density produced in a film on development can be expressed in terms of the total number of -particles incident upon the ] , independent of the intensity and the velocity of the rays , the density in the case of light is a function of , as already described .
Moreover , the density in the latter case depends on the wave-length of the light .
Hurter and Driffield* obtained a relation between the density and the exposure on the assumption that the rate of the change of silver halide in a film , while being exposed to light of intensity I , is proportional to the amount of light absorbed by the halide not yet affected , as follows : where is the development factor , .
a constant , the total amount of the halide per unit area initially present , and the coefficient of the absorption of the halide , being determined by its amount and having the same value for the changed and the unchanged substance .
Disregarding the reversal of the density , this equation is in good agreement with the experiments for a considerable range of exposure , extending to so-called under- and overexposures ( exposures of from about 1 to 10,000 C.M.S. ) .
An approximate form of this equation is , rom which we speak of the " " Inertia\ldquo ; of a plate .
The expression of the density being thus fundamentally different , these terms cannot characterise a photographic plate for -particles .
Suppose we have two emulsion films I and of equal weight and similar composition , the only rence between them being that the size of halide grains in I is greater than that in O. Then the inertia of film I would be less than that of , and consequently the former is more sensitive to light than the latter .
Suppose these two films are equally exposed to -particles and developed under identical conditions .
The numbers of halide grains per unit area in two films are as to ' Journ. Soc. Chem. Ind May , 1890 .
.\fnof ; gR.*. .
1909 .
] -Particles emitted from Radio-active Substances .
where and are the average of the grains in fihns I and respec- tively , assuming they are spherical .
If the grains are miformly distributed in the films , then the probabilities of any one halide being struck by an -particle per unit area , being proportional to the sum of the areas of the diametrical sections of the halide , per unit area perpendicular to the direction of the motion of the -particle , are as to , or as to Therefore , on the average , the number of grains struck by a certain number of -particles is greater in than in I. But , since the mass of each grain is proportional to , the total mass of the grains changed are as to Thus , if we speak of the density , I is more sensitive than , but if we speak of the number of grains , is , on the contrary , more sensitive than I. It will be Iloticed f Tables and that the number of grains due to -rays , and also probably due to the fog in the film " " Ordinary is much less than that in the film " " Instantaneous\ldquo ; for the same number of -particles .
It is therefore hoped , by preparing an emulsion film*of very fine halide grains , and by using a microscope of nification , that the photographio method can be applied for counting -particles with considerable accuracy .
In conclusion , I wish to express my sincere thanks to Prof. Rutherford for the inve , stigation , and for his continual interest its progress at the University of Manchester .
I must also thank Mr. C. W. Gamble , M.Sc .
Tech .
, of the Municipal School of , for his great. .
kindness in allowing me to use the Konig 's spectrophotometer , and for much valuable advice in carrying out the photographic operations .
film must be so thick that no -particles are allowed to pass through the without contact with the grains .
VOL. LXXXIII.\mdash ; A.

