481 Cathode Rays and some analogous Rays .
the difference between the value of the mechanical equivalent found by Rowland , and that found by Griffiths and by Schuster and Gannon , using electrical methods , may not be due to an error in the experiment itself , bat to some error in the electrical standards of resistance or of electromotive force .
" A happy result of this agreement ( arrived at by such devious paths ) concerning the changes in the capacity for heat of water , is that we can now utilise the results recently published by Professor Reynolds regarding the capacity for heat of water over the range 0 ' to 100 ' C. A hurried calculation indicates that if we accept Rowland 's corrected values , the mean thermal unit over the range 0 ' to 100 ' is in close equality with the " thermal unit at 19 ' .
" " Cathode Rays and some Analogous Rays .
" By SiLVANUS P. Thompson , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. Received May 10 , \#151 ; Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
The size of the cathodic shadow of an object depends upon its own electric state , as already found by Crookes* If it is negatively electrified the shadow expands .
If it is positively electrified the shadow contracts .
The position , as well as the size of a cathodic shadow , may be affected electrostatically ; the rays which cast the shadow being repelled from a neighbouring body if the latter is negatively electrified .
In some cases the contraction of the shadow of a narrow object that is made positively electrical ( anodic ) may go so far that the luminous margins approach and even overlap , giving the appearance of a bright or negative shadow in place of a dark one .
The enlargement of a shadow when the object is made cathodic , and the diminution of the shadow when the object is made anodic , both depend upon the degree of exhaustion of the tube ; and both are augmented up to a certain point by raising the degree of exhaustion .
They are also unequal , the enlargement when the object is made cathodic vastly surpassing the diminution when the object is made anodic , other things remaining equal .
The conclusion is reached that cathode rays are capable of being deflected electrostatically , being apparently strongly repelled from a neighbouring cathodic surface ; and less strongly attracted towards a neighbouring anode .
Incidentally it was observed that two cathode beams from two small disk cathodes can cross through or penetrate one another without interfering with one another .
2 .
The electrostatic deflection of cathode rays by an electiitied object is found to be dependent upon the surface of that object as * ' Phil. Trans. , ' 1879 , Part IT , p. 648 .
Cathode Rays and some analogous Rays .
to whether it is a conductor or not .
Objects protected by a nonconducting layer of glass do not at moderately low exhaustions , when made cathodic , repel or deflect cathode rays , and their shadow does not enlarge .
But at a certain minimum exhaustion they suddenly exert an electrostatic deflection .
Naked objects made cathodic deflect the cathode rays at all exhaustions .
3 .
The " splash " phenomenon often observed on the tube-wall of a Crookes ' tube , where it is struck by the cathode beam , at the stage of exhaustion a little below that which suffices to evoke Rontgen 's rays is due to electrostatic deflections of the cathode rays by the charges on the glass .
4 .
A hot wire used as an object casts a cathodic shadow precisely like that of the same wire cold .
Under some circumstances , if the wire is heated by an electric current , the difference between the electrostatic state of its different parts may slightly affect the size of the shadow it casts .
5 .
Cathode rays cannot be concentrated by reflection either from a non-conducting or a conducting surface , nor by passage through a metal tube which is itself negatively electrified .
6 .
When cathode rays strike upon an internal metal target or anti-cathode there are emitted from the latter ( both at exhaustions lower than suffice to produce Rontgen rays , and at exhaustions at which those rays are also produced ) some internal rays resembling ordinary cathode rays in the following respects:\#151 ; They produce a similar luminescence of the glass : they cast shadows of objects ; they are susceptible of deflection both magnetically and electrostatically .
But they produce no Rontgen rays where they fall upon the glass surface .
They do not follow either the law of specular reflection , nor that of diffuse reflection , but are emitted from the anti-cathode surface apparently according to a similarly anomalous distribution to Rontgen 's rays , i.e. , with nearly equal intensity , at all angles up to 90 ' with the normal .
It is proposed to call these rays para-cathodic rays in contradistinction to the ordinary or ortho-cathodic rays .
From the similarity of their distribution with that of the Rontgen rays it is inferred that the physical processes concerned in them production are identical .
These para-cathodic rays are emitted from the anti-cathode both when the latter is made an anode , and when it is neutral or even made cathodic .
From an anti-cathode there may proceed at one and the same time , and in one and the same direction , para-cathodic rays and Rontgen ray 's , which , meeting an interposed object , may cast simultaneously two shadows a para-cathodic shadow on the glass , and a Rontgen shadow on an external screen of barium platinocyanide .
The former shadow can be deflected by a magnet , the latter cannot .
The former shadow expands if the object is made cathodic ; the latter does not .
Electrification of Air , Vapour of Water , and other Gases .
483 7 .
It* thin metal screens are used to sift the cathode rays the luminescent phenomena change .
The rays o\#163 ; least penetrating power appear to be most susceptible to magnetic and electrostatic forces .
The various constituents of a heterogeneous cathode beam are emitted in various proportions at different degrees of exhaustion .
In the cathode rays emitted at higher degrees of exhaustion there is a greater proportion of the less-deflectable rays .
The least-deflectable rays are those which most readily penetrate through a perforated screen when that screen is itself made cathodic .
When ordinary cathode rays fall upon a perforated screen which is itself made cathodic , or are attempted to be passed through a tubular cathode , there emerge beyond the screen or tube some rays , here termed dia-cathodic rays , which differ from the ortho-cathodic , and also from the para-cathodic rays .
These dia-cathodic rays are not themselves directly deflected by a magnet .
They show themselves as a pale blue cone or streak .
Where they fall on the glass they do not excite the ordinary fluorescence of the glass .
The dia-cathodic rays excite , however , a different or second kind of fluorescence ; the tint in the case of soda-glass being a dark orange .
Intervening objects in the beam or cone of dia-cathodic rays cast shadows .
The orange fluorescence evoked on soda-glass by the dia-cathodic rays shows in the spectroscope the D lines of sodium only .
The shadows cast by dia-cathodic rays are not deflected by the magnet , nor do they change their size when the object is electrified .
" Electrification of Air , of Vapour of Water , and of other Gases .
" By Lord Kelvin , G.C.V.O. , F.R.S. , Magnus Maclean , D.Sc .
, F.R.S.E. , and Alexander Galt , B.Sc. , F.R.S.E. Received and Read June 17 , 1897 .
( Abstract .
) S 1 .
In this paper the authors describe a long series of experiments on the electrification of air and other gases with which they have been occupied from May , 1894 , up to the present time ( June , 1897 ) .
Some results of earlier experiments , and of preliminary efforts to find convenient methods of investigation , have from time to time been communicated to the Royal Society , the British Association .
and the Glasgow Philosophical Society.* * " On the Electrification of Air , " by Lord Kelvin and Magnus Maclean , * Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' May 31 , 1894 , and ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1894 ; " Preliminary Experiments to find if Subtraction of Water from Air electrifies it , " by Lord Kelvin , Magnus Maclean , and Alexander Galt , * Brit. Assoc. Report , ' 1894 , p. 554 ; " Electrification of Air and other Gases by bubbling through Water and other Liquids , " by Lord Kelvin , Magnus Maclean , and Alexander Galt , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' February , 1895 ;

