XIII .
A Representation of the Parhelia seen in Kent , Dec. 19 .
1741 .
communicated in a Letter from the Revd Mr. H. Miles , to John Eames , F. R. S. and an Account of the same , as seen by Mrs. Tennison at Canterbury .
SIR , I Had Yesterday the Favour of yours of the 23d Instant , for which I return you my very hearty Thanks ; particularly for the Honour you put on my brief Acount of the Height of the Liquors in my Thermometers , * in communicating it to the ROYALSOCIET Y. Read Feb. 25 .
1741-2 .
As no one wishes the Prosperity of that illustrious Body more truly than I do , I should think myself happy , were I able to do any thing to promote the Design of it , or to gratify any of its worthy Members .
I have enclosed a Draught of the Parhelia seen in Kent the 19th of December last , as I took it from a private Letter sent from thence to a Gentleman in this Town : The Writer of the Letter is not so particular in his Account of it as could be wished : His Words were to this Purpose : ` ` As to the Appearance of the Mock-Suns on the 19th of December , I have enclosed a Scheme , such as I could draw , in which you may observe S is the Sun , Z the Zenith ~~ an inverted Rainbow of the most lively Colours ; the Mock-Suns dd were sometimes almost too bright to look upon , and then they seemed round , * Sec above , p. 20 .
but often were fringed ( as drawn ) with the prismatic Colours ; the Arch bb was but faint , and a whitish Light in the inner Part described at c. The Appearance ended about Noon , or rather a little before Twelve ; how early the Whole was to be seen , I do not know .
' ' The two largest Semicircles , I find no Notice taken of .
Z ~ ~ C b b dd S On Tuesday the 19th Instant , at 10 at Night , being the Time I generally register the Account of the Barometer and Thermometer , I found the Mercurial Thermometer abroad , at 20 Degrees above 0 , or freezing Point : This I thought Extraordinary , and for that Reason I consulted my Register of last Year , and found 16 Mornings and 13 Evenings in May colder Air .
And in April there were two Mornings and three Evenings only , a warmer Air .
I am Your most obliged and most humble Servant , Wind was West all Day 19th , and H. Miles .
began to rise when I made the Observation , at going to Bed .
` Dr. Stukeley likewise gave in a Scheme of the same ` Appearance , as it was seen at Canterbury 10 h. 12 m. ` Dec. 19 .
1741 .
in which the Light at c. was not ` taken Notice of .
He copied it from a Drawing ` made by Mrs. Tennison , who sent it in a Letter to his ` Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury .
' C. M.

