]\gt ; IN THE EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM SECULAR COOLING .
Earth 's surface , and that this layer , instead of that of greatest cooling , must be taken to represent FAVRE'S elastic membrane .
It appears that the mathematical discussion of the problem in his paper is unnecessarily laborious and he has not made various important deductions as to the integral results of distortion and as to the magnitude of the effects to be expected .
I , therefore , offer the following note with the intention of rendering more complete an important chapter in the mechanics of geology .
When a spherical shell expands with rise of temperature , it may be said to stretch , in one sense of the word .
If the shell were on of the layers of the Earth , such a stretching would have no geological effect , for it would merely involve a change of density .
The term " " stretching\ldquo ; then requires an explanation in connection with Mr. DAVISON'S paper .
The stretching which we have to consider is , in fact , simply the excess of the actual above that due to rise of temperature .
The negative of such stretching is a contraction , and it would actually be shown by a crumpling of strata .
if be the density of a body , and its modulus of linear expansion for temperature , then it is obvious that when the temperature is raised degrees the density becomes .
Now suppose that a spherical shell of radius expands so that .
its radius becomes , and suppose that at the same time its temperature ralsed degrees .
Then , if be the modulus of etching , so that unit length is stretched by a length , we have , in consequence of the above explanation of stretching , . . . . . . . . . . .
( 1 ) Now let us consider the geometry of changes in a sphere such that a shell of internal radius , thickness Sr , and density , expands until its internal radius becomes and its density becomes .
The external radius clearly then becomes Thus the mass of the Sr becomes S Then , since the mass remains unchanged , we must have This " " equation of continuity\ldquo ; may clearly be written foot-note , p. 234 .
IN THE EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROM SECULAR COOLING .
Integrating , with regard to time , from the time to zero , we shall get the total amount of stretchin in the layer from the epoch of consolidation down to time Thus . . . . . . .
( 5 ) Now with THOMSON'S notation Since Hence ( 5 ) becomes ( 6 ) This expression gives us the total amount of contraction since consolidation in terms of the temperature and the temperature gradient .
I shall return to this expression later .
Differentiating ( 6 ) with respect to the time , we have But , and Hence or .
( 7 ) When exceeds more than a small fraction of the Earth 's radius is very small ; hence we may regard as small , and write the equation had not been treated as small , we should have got and it is easy to see that this leads to the same result as the above for all practical purposes .
Taking , with THOMSON , the foot and year as unibs , appears to be about 400 ; if , therefore , is million years , .
Now , being feet , approximately , and feet , feet .
If be 100 , miles .
Thus , if the time since consolidation be 100 million years , the present depth of the stratum of no strain is 2 miles , and the depth is proportional to the time since consolidation .
With a greater value of the depth is greater .
With regard to the value of at greater depths , we observe that at a few miles below the stratum of zero strain becomes negligible compared with Hence is approximately proportional to .
Now , if we take the figure drawn in THOMSON and TAIT'S 'Natural ) ' Appendix , and augment or diminish each ordinate NP ' proportionately to bhe corresponding abscissa , it is clear that we shall getjust such a curve as that drawn by Mr. DAVISON .
His curve might thus have been drawn without any computations at all .
The function is portional to , and thus his dotted curve is of just the same kind as the other , excepting close to the surface .
Now let us return to the expression for the integral stretching , .
:\mdash ; ( 9 ) We have Hence , if be small and large ( both of which conditions ] to the present time near the Earth 's surface ) , .
Hence . . . . . . . . .
( 10 ) Now , as we have seen above , with such values as those with which we have to de is a small fraction , notwithstanding that it increases with the time .
IN THE EARTH'S CRUST RESULTING FROII SEC[JLAR COOLING .
Hence , for the upper years , we have approximately . . . . . .
( 11 ) Thus it appears that the integral effect is always a stretching , and that it is the same in amount at whatever speed the globe cools .
The fact , if the globe suddenly , the integral effect must be has been pointed out by Mr. DAVISON .
If we rentiate ( , we have But and , near the surface , Hence and thus we find equation ( 8 ) again , as ought to be the case .
This may also be written\mdash ; .
We must now see whether the amount of crumpling of the surface strata can be such as to explain the contortions of geological strata .
It must be borne in mind that , from a geological point of view , contraction is not the negative of stretching .
When a stratum is stretched it may perhaps be ruptured , and rock may be squeezed up into the crack , at least for the strata which are very near the surface , and therefore not under reat pressure ; but when compressed the stratum is no doubt crumpled .
Hence it is insufficient to know that the integral effect from the time of consolidation is a ching ; for that stretching may be merely excess of a stretching over a crumpling .
Now we have found above that the depth of the stratum of no strain is given by Hence , at the time , given by , the surface of no strain was at depth ; and at all later times than the surPace of no strain lies deeper .
Therefore , to find IN THE EARTH'S CRUST SULTING FROM SECULAR COOLING .
This , we have shown aboye , will be at a depth of 2 or 3 miles .
The amount crumpling at the is given by putting , and Now we have seen that , if be the number of millions of years since consolidation , feet , and Fahr. per foot .
Hence The total amount by which a great circle is contracted is 25,000 miles ; and , judging by the coefficient of expansion of ] may be about Thus , with these rough data , the amount of crumpling of a circle of radius is miles .
Thus , in 10,000,000 years , miles of rock would be crumpled up .
The area of rock crumpled is , and with these numerica ] data .
Now miles , and therefore square miles .
Thus , in 10,000,000 years , 228,000 square miles of rock will be crulnpled up piled on the top of the subjacent rocks .
numerical data with which we have to deal are all of subject to wide limits of uncertainty , but the result just found , although rather small amount , is such as to appear of the same order of magnitude as the } erved geologically .
The stretching and probable fracture of the strata at some miles below the surface will have allowed the injection of the lower rocks amongst the upper ones , the phenomena which we should expect to find to Mr. DAVISON'S theory are eminently in accordance with observation .
It therefore appears to me that his view has a strong claim to acceptance .
IDCCCLXXXVII .
A. 2

