]\gt ; .
G. H. Darwin .
[ June Thalen and that given by Boisbaudran for the bright line to which we assume it to pond , it was determined in the way above described , must not be taken to have more importance .
By our method of working , the very .
dispersive power required for the specific identification of any substance by the determination of an individual wave-length is avoided ; as we depend on the greatly diminished likelihood of error when several groups of lines of the same substance are seen to be continually present at the time of one or more reversals .
It was the necessity of being able to rapidly sweep the entire spectrnm for the above purpose that caused us limit the persion .
A large maiority of the wave-lengths given by Thalen were obtained by means of the moderate dispersion of one bisulphide of carbon prism , a less dispersion than we have used ; and it would be incorrect suppose that no enduring work in this field of spectroscopy can be effected except with the enormous dispersive power which Mr. Lockyer recommends .
VIII .
" " The Determination of the ecular Effects of Tidal Friction by a Graphical Method By .
H. DARWIN , M.A. , formerly Fellow of Trinity College , Cambridge .
Communicated by J. L. , F.R.S. Received May 31 , 1879 .
Suppose an attractive particle or satellite of mass to be moving in a circular orbit , with an .
velocity , round a planet of mass , and suppose the planet to be rotating about an axis perpendiculal to the plane of the orbit , with an angular velocity ; suppose , also , the mass of the pIanet to be partially or wholly imperfectly elastic or viscous , or that there are oceans on the surface of the planet ; then the attraction of the satellite must produce a relative motion in the parts of the plallet , and that 1notion must be subject to friction , or , in other words , there must be fricbional tides of some sort or The systenu must accordingly be losing energy by friction , and its uration must chano e ' in such a way that its whole diminishes .
Such a system does not differ much from those of actual planets satellitcs , , therefore , ) resuIts in this hypothetical case ) pretty closeIy with the course of evolution , ided t time been and will be given for such Let be the moment of inertia of planet about its axis of rotation ; , distance of the satellite from the ccntre of the ; the moment of momentum of the whole f ; ystem ; the whole energy , both kinctic potcntial of the system .
1879 .
] On the Secular Effects ' Tidal iction .
It will be supposed that the figure of the planet and the distribution its internal density are such that the nttraction of the satellite causes no couple about any axis perpendicular to that of rotation .
Then the two bodies revolve in circles about their common centre of inertia with an velocity , and , therefore , the .
of .
of rbital motion is Let be attraction between unit masses at unit distance .
Then , by the law of periodic times , in a circular orbib , whence And the .
of .
of orbital motion The .
of .
of the planet 's rotation is and therefore ( 1 ) .
Again , the kinetic energy of orbital is The kinetic of the planet 's rotation is potential energy of the system is Adding the three together ( 2 ) .
Now , suppose by a proper choice of the unit of time , is unity , and that by a proper choice of units of or of mass is unity , Let * Lct ] be the meall he ) of the planet , itnd if its mcan dius , and if planet be Jfa- , and Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ June It may be well to notice that is proportional to the square root of the satellite 's distance from the planet .
Then the equations ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) become . . . . . . . .
( 3 ) , ( 4 ) .
( 3 ) is the equation of conservation of moment of momentum , or shortly , the equation of momentum ; ( 4 ) is the equation of ene Now , consider a system started with givell positive ( or say clockmoment of momentum ; we all sorts of ways in which it may be started .
If the two rotations be of opposite kinds , it is clear that we may start the system with any amount of energy however reat , but the true maxima and minima of energy compatible with the iven moment of momentum are given by or or . . . . . .
We presently see that this biquadratic has either { wo reaI roots and two imaginary .
or all imaginary roots .
This biquadratic may be derived from quite a different consideration , , by finding the condition under which the satellite may ve round the planet , so that the pIanet shall vttys show the same face to the satellite , in fact , so that they move as parts of one body .
The condition is simply that the satellitc 's bital aular velocity , Sllppose in the case of hc earth , considcred as etcrogcneous , the would be replaced by It is clear that is a time ; in case of the ) and moon with , , if the earth bc cneous , and mins .
if the ) be For units of length and nlass we only to choose them so tJlat Ma or unity .
With these units it will be ound that for ] ) th of ( homog .
) or 7026 cterog ) , and that ( ]lomog .
) , or terog .
For the value Thomsoll and fait 's " " Not .
Pllil .
, \ldquo ; S } tidal Iion is considcred .
1879 .
] On the \amp ; cula7 .
ffects of iction .
the planet 's velocity round its axis ; or since and , therefore By this value of in the equation of momentum ( 3 ) , we get as before . . . . . . .
( 5 ) .
my paper on the " " Precession of Viscous Sphel.oid , \ldquo ; I ined the tion from this last point of only , and considered ftllalytically and its on the history of the earth .
Sir William homson , having read the ) , told me that he that much light be throwtl on the of the equation , by a comparison of the cquation of conservation of moment of momentum with the energy of the system for various rations , and hc ested the appropriateness of geometrical illustration for the purpose of this comparison .
The method which is WOl'ked out below is the esult of tho gcstions given me by him in conversation .
The simplicity with which complicated interactions may be thus out geometrically to their results appeal'S truly remarkable .
At present we only one result , , : if given moment of ntum it is possible to set the satellite ttlld planet moving as a body , then it is possib ] to do so in } ways , and one of these wa requircs a maximum amount of and the other a imum ; from lvhich it is clear that one must be a rapid rotation satellite planet , and the other a slow one the satellite remotc from tho , consider the thrcc tions , . . . . .
( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , . . . . . . . .
( 8 ) .
( 6 ) is the equation of momellUnl ( 7 ) , that of ; and ( 8 ) we may call the equation of idity , it indicntes the bodies as though parts of one id body .
Now , if we wish to illustrat theso geomctrically , we as abscissa , which is the .
of .
of orbit motion ; so tho axis of ) may be called the of orbital momcntum .
ASso , equations ( 6 ) and ( 8 ) we may inntc which is the .
of .
of the planet 's ; so the of bc called { of rotational momentum . .
we ordinate Of an lroc Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ June 1 which is twice the energy of the system ; so that the axis of may be called the axis of energy .
Then , as it will be convenient to exhibit all three curves in the same a parallel axis of , we must have the axis of energy identical with that of rotational momentum .
will not be necessary to consider the case where the restlltant is negative , because this would only be equivalent to reversing all the rotations ; thus is to be aken as essentially positive .
Then the line of momentum , whose equation is ( 6 ) , is a straight line at to either axis , having positive intercepts on both axes .
The curve of rigidity , whose equation is , is clearly of the same nature as a rectangular hyperbola , but having a much more rapid rate of approach to the axis of orbital momentum than to bhat of rotational momentuln .
tcrscctious if ) of the curve of rigidity with the line of abscissae are the two roots of the biquadratic .
The biquadratic has , thercfol.e , two real roots or all imaginar ) roots .
, since , it varies as and , therefore , the intersoction which is remote from the origin , indicates a conhguration the satellite is remote the planet ; Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ June 19 gives ration where the satellite is closer to the planet .
We have already learnt that these two correspond respectively to minimum and maximum energy .
When is very large , the equation to the curve of energy is , which is the equation to a parabola , with a vertical axis parallel to and distant from the origin , so that the axis of the parabola passes through the intersection of the line of momentum with the axis of orbital momentum .
When is very small the equation becomes Hence , the axis of asymptotic on both sides to the curve of energy .
Then , if the line of momentum intersects the curve of rigidity , the of energy has a maximum vertically underneath the point of intersection nearer the origin , and a minimum underneath the point .more remote .
But if there are no intersections , it has no maximum or It is not easy to exhibit these curves well if they are drawn to scale , without making a figure larger than it would be convenient to print , and accordingly fig. 1 gives tbem as drawn with the free hand .
As the zero of energy is quite arbitrary , the origin for the energy curve is displaced downwards , and this prevents the two curves from crossone another in a confusing manner .
The same remark applieR also to figs. 2 and S. Fig. 1 is el'roneous principally in that the curve of rigidity ought to approach its horizontal asymptote more rapidly , so that it would be difficult in a drawing to scale to distinguish the points of intersection and D. Fi , .
2 exhibits the same curves , but drawn to scale , and designed to be applicable to the case of the earth and moon , that is to say , when nearly .
Fig. 3 shows the curves when , and when line of momentum does not intersect the curve of rigidity ; and here is no maximuIn or minimum in tlJe curve of energy .
These figures exhibit all tlJe possible methods in which the bodies may move with given ) of momentum , and they differ in the fact that figs. 1 and 2 the biquadratic ( 5 ) ] ] real roots , but in the case of fig. this is not so .
Every point of the line of momentum gives by its abcissa ordinate the square root of the satellite 's distance and the tion of the planet , and the ordinate of the energy curve gives the energy corresponding to each distance of the satellite .
Parts of these figures have no physical meaning , for it is impossible for the satellite to ve round the planet at a distance which is less thnll the sum of the radii of the planet and satellite .
Accordingly in Since the moou 's diameter is about 2 , milcs , the earth 's about 8,000 , therefore moon 's distance c2111not be less than 5,100 , which is to apply to the rtll and mooll to , the bnsc of the strip is on sLaded , so not rendcr the confused .
strip has been nccidentnlly a littlc too broad .
The dicates turntion of the arfh { moon .
cve of idity x is sttmc for alues of line of momentum parnllel to from the , we may represent possible moments of of tho systcm .
mount of .
of it is possible to sct hystem a , is when liuc of touches the of idity .
condition for this is clc hc equation , hold 1 roots .
lf it has root ) cforc or valuc of 7 , for the moon and cartl ] is about , and hcllcc Mr. G. H. Darwin .
[ June 19 , the equilibrium breaks down by the satellite receding , the recession will go o11 until the system has reached the state corresponding to B. The point , in fig. 2 , shows approximately the present state of the earth and moon , , when It is clear , if the point , which indicates that the satellitc is just touching the planet , be identical with the point , then the two bodies are in effect part of a body in an unstable configuration .
If , therefore , the moon was originally part of the earth , we hould expect to find A and identical .
The figure 2 , which is drawn to represent the earth and moon , shows that there is so close an approach between the edge of the shaded and the intersection of the line of momentum and curve of rigidity , that it would be scarcely possible to distinguish them on the figure .
Hence , there seems a considerable probability that the two bodies once formed parts of a single one , which up in consequence of some kind of instability .
This view is confirmed by the more detailed consideration of the case in the paper on the " " Precession of a Viscous Spheroid of which only an abstract has as yet been printed .
Hitherto the satellite has been treated as an attractive particle , but the method may be extended to the case where both the satellite and pJanet are spheroids rotating about axes perpendicular to the plane of the orbit .
Suppose , then , that is the ratio of the moment of inertia of the satellite to that of the planet , and that is equal to the angular velocity of the satellite round its axis , then is the moment of momentum of the satellite 's rotation , and we have for equation to the plane of momentum , for the equation of energy , and for the equation to the line of rigidity .
The most convenient form in which to put the equation to the suriace of is where are the ordinates .
The best way of derstanding the surface is to draw the lines of parallel to the plane of , as shown in fig. 4 .
The case I have considered may be called a double-star system , where the planet and satellite are equal and .
Any other case may be easily conccived by a stretching or contraction of the surfacc parallel to It will be found that , if the whole lnoment of momentum has loss than a critical by the consideration thttt 1879 .
] On the Secnlar ffects of Tidal Friction .
roots ) , then the surface may be conceived as narrow and deep avine , out at one part of its course into valleys on each side of the .
In this case the colltours wonld resemble those of .
the round closed curves to ) bsent .
The course of the ravine is at to the axes of and the origin is situated in one of the valley is less steep than the valley facing it on the opposite side of the .
The of a section perpendiculal to the ravine is such as the curve of in fig. :3 , so that erywhere there is o ) slopc vards the ravine .
On the Secular Effects of Tidal Friction .
that point must always ] down hill .
It does not , however , necesfollow that it will always slide down steepest path .
The fall of the guiding point into the ravine indicates the falling together of the two stars .
Thus , if the two bodies be started vrith less than a certain moment of momeIltum , they must ultimately fall together .
Next , suppose the whole .
of .
of the system to be greater than the critical value .
Now , the less steep of the two valleys of the former case ( viz. , the one in which the origin lies ) has become more like a semicircular amphitheatre of hills , with a nearly circular lake at the bottom ; and the valley facing the amphitheatre has become merely a falling back of the cliffs which bound the ravine .
The energy curve in fig. 2 would show a section perpendicular to the ravine through the middle of the lake .
The origin is nearly in the centre of the lake , but slightly more remote from the ravine than the centre .
In this figure was taken as 4 , and as unity , so that it represents a system of equal double stars .
The numbers written on each contour give the value of corresponding to that contour .
Now , the guiding point of the system , if on the same side of the ravine as the origin , may either slide down into the lake or into the ravine .
If it falls into the ravine , the two stars fall together , and if to the bottom of the lake , the whole system moves rouIJd slowly , like a rigid body .
If the point be on the lip of the lake , with the ravine on one side and the on the other , this responds to the motion of the two bodies rapidly round one another , moving as a rigid body ; and this state is clearly dynamically unstable .
If the point be the other side of the ravine , it must fall into it , and the two stars fall together .
Tt been remarked that the guiding point does not necessarily slide down the steepest gradient , and of such a mode of descent illustrations will be given hereaftcr .
Hence it is possible that , if the guiding point be started the amphitheatre of hills , it may slide down until it comes to the lip of the lake .
As far as one can see , however , such a descent would require a peculiar relationship of the viscosities of the two stars , probably varying from time to time .
It is therefore possible , though improbable , that the unstable condition where the two bodies move rapidly round one another , always showing the same faces to one altother , may be a degradation of a previous condition .
If this corresponds with { distance between the stars less than the sum of the radii of their masses , it cleal .
lie cannot be the result of such a degradation .
, therefore , can trace back a planet and satellito to this stat 1879 .
] Researches in quivalence .
have probably found the state where the satellite first existence .
The conditions of bility of a ting mass of fluid very obsctlre , but it seems probable } , if the stability brokc down the gradually separated into two parts , then the condition imafter scpnration be .
likc the unstable described ve .
In conclusion , I will { few to show that the .
point on surface need not neccssnrily move down the steepcst path , but may cvcn depart bottom of a furrow or move along a .
Of this cases will gi The will now be supposed to bc mereIy all cve ticle .
First , ivcn moment of momentum , the cnergy is rentcr w the axis of the planet is oblique to the orbit .
Hencc , if we an surface which one of the -ordinate axes corresponds to obliquity , then there must be a in the surface corresponding to zero obliquity .
To conclude the obliquity of the eclipbic must diminish in consequence of friction would be erroueous .
ln fact , it will appear , in my paper on the " " Precession of a Viscons Spheroid , ' ' that for a of viscosity the position of zero obliqnity is dynamically unstable , if the period of the satellitc is reater than vicc that of the planct 's otation .
Thus tho , though on the encrgy surface , will depart from the bottom of the furrow .
Secondly .
For givcn moment of momcntum ] ) less if the orbit be ccccntric , and an GllGl.gy surfnce may bc constlucted which zero icity corresponds to a .
Now , I belve that hhall bc able to show , i11 a future upcr , for viscosity of the planet the circular orbit is stable if tccn p be less than cleven periods of the p 's rot tion .
will afford a case of the point down a when , howover , criticnl point is , the point will depart from the and orbit becomc eccentric .
IX .
" " in \ldquo ; J. MtLLS , D.Sc. .
J. J. .
of is vicw , more of ; cse metals .
proportions , fact .
or Part II , see \ldquo ; vol. , p. 270 .

