]\gt ; natical Contributions to the Theory Erolntion .
173 Theory of Error .
Let a community be divided into a number of claf ; ses , ) proporin fferent csses being .
, so at . . . . .
Suppose a random selection of individoals to be made , the drawn from the different sses being , , .
lt is proved geometrically , with the aid of the , that values of the errors , and that the distl.ibutions are 1lormally correlated .
It ) lows that the values ot any cxpression of the form .
are nor1nally distributed .
The mean of to be , and the mean product of .
and to be .
The applications are of ) kinds : \mdash ; ( 1 ) The of the ) able errors in rmination of qu ntitios are obt ined , and , ticnl , the probable the mean , mean square of tion , meau product of deviations : and ( 2 ) are ) } for } hypotheses ; whether distributio1ls cndent ; a bnfiou is ormal ; and whether two normal distributions are to the Theory of of nstallts and on the of ctit ) and tiou.\ldquo ; By KARL L. College , London .
Received Nber 25 , 18.97 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
This mcmoir ) a theorem , by which the nladc in the of any froquenc .
be .
It is that probable the of , wh ' bc the llfitul'e of fbe disther it be skew or .
The tance of is of is then ) to .
It is belection , of tion , elntion , will tion 1 ) only of the size , but tiou of the whole complex of selection , Iection is on for other uuoir , comploted .
Prof. K. Pearson and Mr. L. N. G. Filon .
2 .
Normal colrelation is first dealt with .
It is shown that if and be the number of : Probable error of a coefficient of correlation Probable error of , for ations with definite Correlation of errors in two standard deviations elation of errors in a standard deviation and a correlation coefficicnt Probable error of a regression coefficicnt for two and are the two standard deviations .
Probable error of a regression for three between the errors in two cox.relation coefficiens , i.e. , Correlation between the in two correlation coefficients , i.e. , .
and 3 .
variation is next dealt with .
First th probable errors elations of the errors the constants of the curve *This value for the " " \ldquo ; erroneously given as ] ) for the nbsolute alue of in il .
rans .
, vol. 189 , p. but the tement as in ' .
Proo vol. 61 , p. ibutions to the of olution .
17 are .
The fol.mulae ined have becll cited and used by and ] Alicc , " " the ion and Col.relation ) of the Hei at llote the folio ) : \mdash ; ' of mcan of stundard deviation ' -\amp ; c. , and ) ) ' of skewness of errors in mean and andal d deviation of skewness tion o and standa deviation dltit ) .
in its msan value .
size decreased ) hole.iability alte].s also botb lChS of .
oi ludal frequency , approximately , is to be less than the probable errol the of errors the moments and .
probablo np to the nrth are worked out .
4 .
; a niting case the probable errors of the skcwness , up to the fo/ lrth , and of the distance }vecn n bout to be in ' Mr. Swale Vincent .
Furth er upon in the case of a random selection from a norma ] distribubion are W0l.ked results are next obtained for the skew frequency : I } , shown that in these cases the mean size , variation , modal quency , and skewness in general all such that their errors are .
Hence any selection of modilies both the variation kewness of the tion .
is is of considerable nportance theory of evolutio ] in most ses of zoological frequency distribution of the second , or curve , type .
Hence selection of size tends to modify not ) variation but skewne distribution .
The ret , nlts arc too long to be cited , and their tion to involves what 1 , but not arithmetic , which in practical cases have found much by the use of " " \ldquo ; calculator .
Observations upon the Comparative Physiology of the psules By SWALE VINCENT , .
( Loud .
) , 3ritish Medical Association Research Communiated by E. A. SCHAFER , F.R.S. Beceived Noveluber 2 November 25 , 1897 .
Physiological Laboratory , Iniversity College , London .
revious c I have given experimental evidence in .
of tlJe view tIIat the ) aired s bodies ) the gland of Elasmobranch fishes correspond respectively to the dulltl cortex of the capsules of the higher Verte .
I have bher slated , as the resuIt of numerous medullary portion of the arenal a to be eosts , the sllprarellal bodies this order of fishes buloly of cortex .
the above series of experiments 1ny abtention devoted to the effects of extracts x- expenses involved in research have been by a grant from nlcnt Giftee of al Society . .
Proc , 1897 ; 'Roy .
SOU .
' vol. Cl , , 189 .
l3 ,

