]\gt ; 1876 .
] On Clairautian Functions and Equations .
northern slalionk , yet , to attain the maximum at , the rose w-ithiu velve honrs during the of Mfarch .
I need poi1nt out the ejghty which these facts must hnve ou cference to the great rometric oscilonr lnlil ndes ns ell as to of lesser the tropies .
The the mcall hcight of the rometel at ntio nt the hollrs of given , ether n the menn for the If be the minimum was less the stations .
with the exception , than the meaIl for VI .
On Clairautian Functions and Equations By Capt. CuNNINGHAlI , , Hon. Fellow of 's Coll. Lond. Tndia .
Communicated by Prof. .
Received April 18 , otatio 7.\mdash ; In this stands .
; stand for differential coefficients of ( and therefore is to itself ) ; X , \amp ; c. stand for known functions of . . . . .
, \amp ; c. stand for the differential coefficients of X , , \amp ; c. ; stands for a rtioular integral of a linear differential tion ; stands for the complete arbitrary portion of solution of a linear differential equation .
1 .
irautian s.\mdash ; lt is proposed to apply the term T1AN CT1ON to the ing expressions possess properties .
to thnt which the sol { ltion of ' ' tiol)\ldquo ; is { ouoded ) , . . .
( 1 ) denote them , ' so A. unningham on [ May 11 , , ( l ) , ( 1 ' .
( 1a ) be distinguished as of nth order , rank , and kth class ; and are supposed ffiways positive integers , and not ; and be any quantity whatever .
It is ious that there are Clairftutians of order ; terms in a irautian of rank in general ; ( 2 ) terms in a Clairautian of rauk , when is or a negative integer numerically Thus a Clairautian is a differential expression , the order rank of which determine the orders of its highest and lowest coefficients ; it is also obvious that the difference of the exponent ( p ) of ordel of differential coefficient is the same in every term .
2 .
uations.\mdash ; It is proposed to term a differential equation involving Clairautiall functions a CLAIRAUTIAN EQUATION .
the important properties proved in arts .
4 , 5 , the solution of many such differential equations may be founded and ith elegan ce .
These will be developed in what follows .
In consequence of the limitation of as illtegers ( art .
1 ) .
the differelltia ] presented will ffi be of the ordinary type , that is , involving the differential symbol omly in a rational integral " " difterentiation\ldquo ; will be freely used when necessary to the generality of a solution ( so that the ltity k may have any value ) .
Any difficulfy that may be felt in the interpretation of the transcendent ( when is not an integer ) will generally disappear in the final snlts , such transcendents , in fact , cancelling .
3 .
Algebraic relations .
is easy to see that the of 1 ank are simple differential , . . . . . .
; . . . .
1876 .
] Clairautian Functions and Equations .
also that those of zero class are . . . . .
( 4 ) It is easy also to establish by expansion and comparison of coefficients that ; , . . . . .
( 5 ) ; . . .
( 6 ) 4 .
Differential properties.\mdash ; It is easily established by actual differentiation that ; ; . . . . . . . . .
Hence also , by the theo1y of ' ' general differentiation , .
whatever be the value of ( omitting all arbitrary terms ) .
These results may be thus expressed vords : .
Simple differentiation depresses the class , and raises the of a Clairautian , without affecting its rank .
fore integrals of bove quantities messed aairautians order ( after kadirbffietrreanrtyi teromns , ommon factor y .
Symbolic forms.\mdash ; It is obvious from results ( 7 ) , 8 ) , that ( omittin rbitrary terms ) .
( 9 ) Hence , by the known theorem\mdash ; , or in general , Sir John Conroy on the [ May that \ldquo ; ' , . . . . . .
\ldquo ; . . . . .
Observe that , since are supposed positive integers , these symbolic tios f ays consist of a finite number of factors , and are therefore interpretable , whatever be of May 18 , 1876 .
Dr. J. DALTON in the The were on the table , and dered for apers ere read : 1 .
-Spectra of Iodine By Sir JOHN icated by A. G. Reader in in the University of Oxford .
Received April 12 , 187 vell k in very thin 1 years , appenrs red by ( llld )hell iu solution the colour of the depends not only on of iodine coLltainel in it , bnt on the nature it is di , solved .
ointed out ( Pogg .
Ann. 1 ol . .
p. :334 ) that th i11 iodine is solnble be ided into \mdash ;

