]\gt ; Mr. T. Grubb on the [ Apr. 30 , III .
On the Improvement of the Spectroscope By THOMAS F.R.S. Received 1874 .
The importance , as an instrument of research , which the spectroscope has reached ithin a few , renders any improvement therein a of general scientific interest .
Hitherto it has been under a disadvantage , which , though slight in amount in those cases in which the dispersive power of the instrument is moderate , becomes a rather serious annoyance to the observer when a number prisms are used in serial combination , and the curvature of the spectral lines is proportionally increased , and only to be re.strained in appearance by using a breadth of the spectrum .
I have lately thought of a very simple and practical remedy ( which may indeed have occurred to others , but which I have not seen mentiomed ) , whereby those lines are relldered ppably straight in a very large field ; but prsvious to describing , it is desirable to refer to a statement appearing in the ' Astronomical Notices ' for last month ( March ) , that the spectral lines can be rendered perfectly ight simply by retulning them ( aftel their first ssage through a series of prisms rranged for minimum deviation ) by a direct reflection from a plane mirror ; and , further , that this has been accomplished in spectroscope in construction for the Boyal Observatory .
Such a statement has , as might be expected , produced several inquiries ; in ome case the list is much interested , .
by having a very large spectroscope in hand which , from its constluction , involyes the question of straight or curved lines resulting .
It therefore seems desirable to remove illusion which may be entertained , by a short consideration of the economy of the spectroscope , so far as the question of ture is concerned .
The of the lines may be considered a function of the dispersion of a prism ; it ( the curvature ) not only always accompanies the dispersion , but , further , its character is lways the same with respect to the dispelsion\mdash ; that is to say , the centre of curvature will be found invariably to lie in the same direction with respect to the direction of the dispersion , the lines being concave towards that end of the spectrum having the more ngible rays* .
This ( which dmits of the clearest proof ) is adequate to show the impossibility that , by any * Professor Stokes has indeed ated a form of compound prism in which the resulting lines are straight , and on the same principle we may combine prisms ( using of course media of different optical powers ) in which , with a balance of dispersion remaining , the curvnture might be found ; but this does not aifect the general law .
The curvature in that compound prism ( which the result of various trials , and first used in the spectroscope of the Great Melbourne Telescope , and now , Iapprehend .
in pretty general estimation and use ) probably has a lese proportional curvature of the lines than the simple prism .
1874 .
] Improvement of the Spectroscope .
kind of inversion , whether by reflections or otherwise , we can neutralize the curvature while doubling the dispersion .
If Xitmine the spectrum , as produced by a series of prisms in the position of mimimum deviation , we necessnrily find thnt the lines of higher refrangibility , also .
centres of , lie ards the centre of the polygon hich the isms t affect ; if 11 itrrest the rays at aIly part of the circuit , and reflect them ectly b by plane mirror , this reflection erses ( right for left ) not only the direction of the centre of curvature of the liIles , but cdso tloe of the spectrum itself , both which cousequentl.v doul ) moullt { fter the rays the second , or throngh the prisms ; or if , first ss the isms , reflect the rays so as to pass through a set as to the curl a of the first set , find the resulting dispersion reduced to zero .
The riter of the article ing alluded to a difference between the reflection as eu by all prism of ( donble ) totnl reflection , it mlty be that , so far as the dispersiou collcerned , the cases ctically identical , the rence b the double reflection , there is a ertical i of the rtul , which , , produces no discernible effect in the pectrum or of the lines ; and as the constructed with the double reflecting prism is to produce , 11 ith double dispelsion , double -ature , here have an proof , if such ere required , that the single reflecting mirror does the The remedy , or means of producing lines , hich I have alluded to , is silnplthR of constructin the ' slit ith ed instead of rectilinear edges .
There is little difficulty incurred in construction , and no ) rent objection to its use .
It be obiected that for of er use there should be a special slit .
It is , ever , only in spectroscopes dispersion that the culvatme becomes ; in such there is seldom a change required , and a single slit medium er would probably remove all practical difficulty , or objectionable ture of the lines .
I found by trial that , when two compound prisms were in use , giving a dispersion from A to of nearly , the spectJ a lines were straight in a field one degree , when the of ture of the slit was made iIlch .
above If a ray of light be cted i any manner auy number of prisms arranged as in spectroscope , oing , if be , number of intermediate reflections at stlrfaces ] to the common ection of the edges of the prisms\mdash ; or , more if ray be thus refracted VOL. XXTI .
2 } List of Candidates .
[ May 7 , or reflected at the surfaces of any number of media bounded by cylindrical surfaces in the most general sense ( including , of course , plane as a particular case ) , the generating lines of which are parallel , and for brevity 's sake will be sllpposed vertical , and if be the altitude of the ray in air , . . . .
, its altitudes in the media of which the refractive indioes are . . . .
, then ( 1 ) The successive altitudes will be determined by the equations . . . .
, iust as if the ray passed through a set of parallel plates .
( 2 ) The course of the horizontal projection of the ray will be the same would be that of an actual ray passing through a set of media of refractivs indices , . . . .
instead of , . . . .
As , the fictitious index is greater than the actual , and therefore the deviation of the projection is increased by obliquity .
These two propositions , belonging to common optics , place the justice of Mr. Grubb 's conclusions in a clear light.\mdash ; Apri130 , G. G. STOKES .
] May 7 , 1874 .
WILLIAM Treasurer and Vicein the Chair .
In pursuance of the tutes , the names of the Candidates recommended for election into the Society were read from the Chair as follows :\mdash ; Isaac Lowthian Bell , F.C.S. W. T. Blanford , F.G , S. Henry Bowman Brady , F.L.S. Thomas Lauder Brunton , M.D. , Sc. D. Prof. W. Kingdon Clifford , M.A. Augustus Wollaston Franks , M.A. Prof. Olaus Henrici , Ph. D. Prescott G. Hewett , F.B.C.S. John Eliot Howard , F.L.S. Sir Henry Sumner Maine , .D .
Edmund James Mills , D.Sc . .
Stephen Joseph Perry , F.B.A.8 .
Henry Wyldbore Bumsey , M.D. Alfred R. C. Selwyn , F.G.S. Charles William Wilson , Major R.E. The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The following Papers were read :

