]\gt ; .
H. H. Turner .
On the " " On the Corona of January 22 , 1898 .
Preliminary Note H. H. TURNEB , D.Sc .
, , Savilia Professor .
Received January 18 , \mdash ; Read Febrnary 7 , 1901 . .
Ill a former not I gave some account of measures of brightness on tphs of the corona of 1893 by Abney 's method .
The method ) nsed on the coronal photographs taken in 1898 in 1900 ( in one were obtained owing to , and a large rnml ) of measures been made , though the is not yet complete .
Pending the completion and public tion of this work , it secms isable to the present note , one or two results my be useful to thers in the forthcoming eclipse . .
As the method of measnrement , sufficient has been said ( for the prese1lt ) in the paper dready quoted .
It need only dded that in of the revolving sectors a graduated wedge of time w userl to dinlinish the ison beam , according to Sir 's more recent methods .
The wedge or sectors are mere interthe onal image and the standard squares , and no onsiderations 1evond those of convenience are involved .
The wedge is more , and the work can be done it twice tpidly .
no method has adopted of the though i change in some respects , has had the importallt cence of suggesting a moro tory ] the of htness with from the sum .
The only simple ) hich h hitherto been formulated .
that proposed 1 ofessor Harkness in 1878 , .
: \mdash ; distance from Thorpe and ) in 1886 and 1893 could la ; though I in the ( that if the ) measnred from a point the , the pproximately satisfied the photophic m I now led new , viz. :\mdash ; Bright from hich , still on , is lpported b fair monnt of the stlggestion in the 4 .
The briohtness in the previous paper ) .
This of hyperbolic Proc , p. 103 , the close to the two of cference , and tlitficult to the scrvations with , for reasons which are .
The is still hyperbolic if htness ) ) plotted st ) if the ) rightness vries as any power of the disttlCC , plot rhlness ) , we get ight 1 , which .
to observations with .
The nmst know where to measure our from ; for if to the , it will hjxn ge the tight line into lmfortunttely the point hich thtC to snred seemed just one of the be .
But fter some experiments I found that not to find the igin from which ro the ) by the very co1ldition that the curve to be csented h the line in fig. 1 , the ] ] the of when is will l the ) efol .
) is tbed , cfore diminished , get ] ve , such trials ( perh donc sllfficcs ) the of ighten the curve .
6 .
vidtles toly } ) ointed to the cntl .
erin for surement ; hctl the plotted on this sBnmption , the lrvo the slope of this line tctl t ) rho la lreatly s. : .
But one furthcl point is to .
The vc ] ) ight f. some tlCC f linl , but .
H. H. Turner .
On the like the GH fig. 2 .
Now ring this with C in , it suggests that just as CD could be explained by the addition of constant to the hich made a ariable ation in the , so may ) ined 1 the addition of a to FIG. the a Yarinl)teration in the rightness .
And there is possible for this constant addition , , the sky tion or n-hich is added to the coronal brightness .
A of ) of the average brightness of the full moon for this seems to satisfy requiremente the 1898 hotographs .
8 .
I proceed to a ) rief s of the on the photophs of 1898 so as they Foul have been selected ) cment , thrce of then t by exposures of 1 sec. , ) sech .
oltC taken .
Hills -ith exposurc 8 scch. .
On sures have ) dong six radii , E. , , the the lirection of the enmclS .
The exposures given to the all the satle .
These transmit of the light nging from to 4 on of powers of 2 , hich n be extended ) suros on the tIlge of to 7 at lcast .
But the ness of the raIlgc is up ) in the measuremcltt of different Thtf , the longer of 20 soc .
in the the faintet of the the shortcl ' of 1 colltrol the ) ighter pnrts ) the 10 .
ring the resnlts from the diftelent .
it is fotltt esses s one diffcr from .
in .
ince the rightness ) ) il ( ' similar Iltlml)cts the Sir , I have used the ) for the ithms of ) to } hich l a cfhtness of of 1898 .
39 1 of taken to of .
( The og base 10 in the ordinary way .
) These differenccs between the plates dne to combination of the following mscs : Aceidental error in expostlre to .
The exposures were vithont any mechanism , and the short ones especially ) in error .
Thus the difference the 1 sec. and 20 secs .
-posnre If the whole of this be error ill the 1 , it Otld meau that the sec. of for scc .
, hich is error in exposure to .
This should be lnnch .
Differonce in sensitiveness of the film the edge of the the squares are impressed , the here the nprcsssed .
There is independe1lt idence of sensiblo of this and the point is under tion .
Differenoes in the beha of the ndlc hich inlpressed the on the various plates .
Climatic differences between Sahdol tltd Pulgaon .
11 .
It ecomes 1lecessary to decide ) plate to take the .
Cause ought not to affect the 8 secs .
and 20 secs .
, but cause may .
They differ , nnd may the .
The correctionls to ) the then I II III xposm e 1 sec. ) set .
see .
20 sec. Place Sahdol Sahdol Correctiou selection is preferred , it is silv ( coltto the mbers .
12 .
Tho corrcction for constant of the due to skymoon , tho mooll to of caItdle at 1 foot .
If tlty polnt the corona has brightness 1 epresented by ) , then the )ightness msnred o the plate -ill appear as )where A in terl of of the following pol { iotl:\mdash ; I H. urner .
On to 13 .
The the plates verc then corrected\mdash ; the ] in ; For the sky-glare , in S11 : { comparerl }with the of the for of the six it(u btired .
As bove e cve aight line , obtained plolting brightlless } and distance its scissa .
The onstants for the were as ltdopting as thit of rightness that of the ) foot , of that of the , so the consttntb cpresent the , of the the cxprcssed in .
-y . .
1 Mc:lll .
, the is ] full moon on the 14 .
, the stres ( I the ) , with the ving 1CSlllts .
1 the " " ] ivcn f , the ] different fro1ll this thronghout } are oj th , ' of I.\mdash ; Comparison of ) scrved Brightness phic ) of with the LjtW .
l5 .
Considering the of oroual blIlt ) perhaps expect better grecnlcnt intl ) of than shown by these rebi the Sllmed hcthel it ] Dr. H. H. Turner .
jtlty sical significance or not , is , at any rate , a convenient method of pressmg the facts .
We may now turn to the measures previousl lven of the .
1893 corona , see they accord this formla .
trial , it that a fair accordance can be secured if the concorrectio1l for sky-glare be taken as instead of , and the for the four radii measured ) N. E. Mean .
16 .
With regard to the smaller 1 for sky-glal'c , if de pencls on the genertd brightness of the itself , may remark that the 1893 corona was generally fainter , ding to the measures , than the corona , the mean constant for the former being , and for the latter .
The difference is , so that ths 1898 about twicc bright , hence sky illumination not sonable .
nble \mdash ; Comparisoll of Observed 1893 Corona ( distancs from ( The distances are given in units of I nesses are expressed ) powers o htness .
ncct tWjtJ ) ' ' Roy .
Soc. Pro of th , 1898 .
43 17 .
not some of them may ) to the tiou -hich ltecesst4i for the .
brighter ptrts of the , the squares not ving been glven a long-ellough 1 in the fornlel ) to compa1e with the long .
to the coronn .
Me sures on shorter posure t the will of more accurate resnlts tho SU1I linll ) .
tely uo plate is with shorter ) on this plate , so far they have goue , indi e ith the theoretical } rthel .
measllres 18 .
Wirh the sumed 1 ohtnesb where ) ts from the 's limb in solar radii , the total of the the total htness of the full moon Thus of the htnebS of the is A. In 1898 of tely 2 , and thns the hole cbont e to the moon .
In 1893 the of ; holc c thus about of the fnll moon .
19 .
But omitted the ] of the sky .
If include a of extendiIlg to from the the of for " " glare in , then to tities It is not , , easy value to R. 20 .
The ) of nleas/ ed in ) the Forbos , jun .
, to bc full moon .
find full llool .
If the } 44 .
J. Dewar .
The Boiling Point of , if suppose that .
Forbes mc sured the light within it CIllar c in diameter , which seems a fair snpposition , the measnres of total brightness agree .
On the same supposition , the value of in 1898 would ) full moon , and the total brightness of the corona appear as full moon .
The } ) rightness of the of 1898 at a point distant from the expressed in my ] ' represented by the formula brightness here A are constants .
The first term may be corona propel , while may be as representing the constant illumin ttion of the or glare .
In 1898 the of was ) ) moon , taking brightness of the moon as candle at 1 foot .
The constant A aries the radius along .
In 1898 it varied from ) ) moon moon , mcan moon or moon .
The same will firly represent the 189.3 corona , the value of A being ) , and the value of The total brightness of the ( cpends on of sky .
If circular in diameter ) included , the total brightness of the 1893 may ) as full moon , agreeing with the measures , and of , on the supposition , be lbout 2 full moon .
of mined I itlld Helium as Thermometel .
S.\ldquo ; ] ) of loyal lnstituCion , cksonian Professor , Univel.sity of } cived Janualy 1901 .
it shown metel for the ) oiling point , or ( ions of the box al.e not in ) ) pn.per to 1 , are efer ) ; p. 369 01 the nsactions , , 1889 , is a dia. ) the box , it } old a as not grea than , judging by ) ' On 3oiling Point of Liquid ogcn u ' Roy .
Soc. ' 1898 .

