556 Dr. R. Norris on the passage of [ June 15 , within their embouchures , as I first ascertained when carrying out my current tests in that river ; brackish water was consequently found in the lower depths , percolation of sea-water through the sandy substrata no doubt then partly accounting for its brackish condition .
But eddy surface-currents along the sides of the river , under the influence of the prevailing N.W. winds blowing directly into the mouths , no doubt also assist the intermixture as far as it goes\#151 ; just as the return-current down the European coast is diluted and intermixed in its general and superficial density from the rains and rivers of the north , and thus tends to restore the lost freshness of the equatorial or trade-wind and Gulf-stream currents , as the tropical rivers and rains tend to restore the loss in the low latitudes : thus condensation from evaporation and redilution by surface-currents are throughout mainly maintaining the equilibrium .
Dr. Forch-hammer shows that this lighter density or dilution of the encircling superficial waters from the equator commences from the American rivers from the parallel a little north of the Bermudas , and that it exists all along the European coast and again on the African coast from the African rivers ; and he has shown that the effect of the La Plata is found 900 miles from its mouth .
The fact I have given of the condition at the Nile 's mouths at certain seasons is an extreme case , quite in accordance with the great undercurrent theorists ' views , and I mention it as a fact of interest to them .
But nevertheless I believe , from my own experience , and from the facts to be gathered from Dr. Forchhammer 's elaborate researches into the temperatures and saline densities , that as it is not an appreciable and measurable movement as an undercurrent at the Nile or Dardanelles , and only chemically testable by the tongue or hydrometer , so are there no great mechanical and appreciable movements as undercurrents in the ocean as a necessary result of the very slight difference in the densities of one part of the ocean and another .
Nevertheless a complete investigation into the phenomena of ocean-currents is a most desirable operation , and can be so easily accomplished on the plan I have found so practicable and easy , and recommended several years ago for adoption by all scientific captains when crossing the great oceans , especially when calms detain them and favour the experiment , without fear of the results being confused or mistaken ; for then only should it be carried out where there are great depths and where strong surface-currents exist .
XII .
" On the Physical Principles concerned in the passage of Blood-corpuscles through the Walls of the Vessels .
" By Richard Norris , M.D. , Professor of Physiology , Queen 's College , Birmingham .
Communicated by Dr. Sharpey , Sec. R.S. Received June 12 , 1871 .
In the year 1846 my much-lamented teacher , Dr. Augustus Waller , published in the Philosophical Magazine two able papers relating to the 1871 .
] Blood-corpuscles through the Walls of the Vessels .
557 perforation of the capillaries by the morphological elements of the blood , viz. the red and white corpuscles .
These observations attracted little attention till the year 1867\gt ; when the facts made known by Dr. Waller were rediscovered by Professor Cohnheim , of Berlin .
Since the publication of Cohnheim 's researches very considerable interest has been taken in the subject , and the experiments have been repeated and the facts corroborated by eminent physiologists and pathologists in all parts of the world .
On a careful consideration of the hypotheses which have been propounded by Waller , Cohnheim , Strieker , Bastian , and Caton , to account for the curious phenomena in question , it will be found that all these hypotheses fall short in one important particular , inasmuch as they afford no explanation whatever of by far the most singular part of the process , viz. the fact that the apertures through which the corpuscles pass again close up and become invisible .
The question , indeed , is not so much how the corpuscles get out , as how they get out without leaving any permanent trace of the apertures through which they have so recently passed , and which were so palpable during the period of transit .
Before proceeding to elaborate my own views , it may be well to restate succinctly the various points upon which observers are agreed .
1st .
Both white and red corpuscles pass out of the vessels through apertures which can neither be seen before their ingress into or egress from the vessel wall , but only during the period of transit .
2nd .
An essential and primary step in the process is , that the corpuscles shall adhere or , more properly , cohere to the wall of the vessel .
3rd .
These cohering corpuscles shall subsequently be subjected to pressure from within .
With these conditions fully before our minds , we will proceed to inquire if in physics we can find the analogue of these seemingly mysterious phenomena .
In the first place , this phenomenon of the passage of bodies through films or membranes is by no means confined to the capillary walls , the same thing has been observed in nucleated blood-corpuscles , such , for example , as those of the frog .
In these cases no rupture or aperture of exit has been discovered .
It is obvious that the escape of the nucleus from its capsule without rupture , and the passage of the entire blood-corpuscle through the capillary wall without rupture , are phenomena of the same class ; and the explanation which will suffice to clear up the one , will also apply with equal force to the other .
As a matter of fact , it will be admitted that we can form no h prion conception of one form-retaining body passing through another without either rupturing it or distending certain holes or pores which it may already possess .
This , however , is just one of those cases in which con558 Dr. B. Norris on passage of [ June 15 , ceivability is no test whatever of possibility .
To comprehend these phenomena it is necessary to bear in mind the ultimate constitution of the animal membranes , which form alike the capsules of the corpuscles and the parietes of the capillaries* .
All the membranes which enter into the animal body may , from a physical point of view , be divided into two orders , \#151 ; the very fine structureless homogeneous films which must be regarded as simple cohesion-membranes , in contradistinction to the second order of coarser membranes , to which certain mechanical arrangements are super-added , which have the effect of increasing the strength , such , for example , as structure , the result of interlacing fibres ; in films of collodion , gelatine , albumen , india-rubber , and soap we have examples of the first class of membrane .
It is with this class that we are now concerned , and these are susceptible of two states , the fixed or rigid condition , and the contractile or elastic state , dependent upon the presence of the principle of " flow , " which principle may be operative in every shade and degree , from perfect liquidity to absolute rigidity .
It will be sufficient to state here that the more colloid and plastic those membranes are , or , in other words , the more they approximate in their constitution to liquids , so do they proportionately cease to obey exclusively the laws of rigid bodies , and begin to exhibit intermediate properties or qualities , some of which belong to solids and others to liquids , We may take the soap-film as the best illustration we can find on a large scale of the class of homogeneous cohesion-films , possessing in the greatest perfection this principle of " flow , " and as exhibiting to the fullest extent phenomena which I have generalized under the term progressive cohesive attraction f. By the study of the soap-film we may acquire a knowledge of many # The parietes of the capillaries are held by modem histologists to consist of protoplasm , a substance which is universally considered to be of a viscid semiliquid nature , and in which it is easy to demonstrate the presence of the property of flowing within certain limits .
- .
.J- The term progressive cohesion is here used in contrast with that operation of cohesion which simply maintains contact between the particles of two like or unlike substances or bodies , and which , when it occurs between the particles of unlike bodies , is called adhesion .
The attraction of cohesion evidently operates for some distance beyond the atom or particle , so that actual contact is not essential to its display .
When two small globes of mercury , or of any other liquid , are made to touch at one point , they merge , as is well known , with great rapidity into each other , and the materials which compose them become arranged around a common centre , that is to say , one larger sphere results .
The mode of union of these two spheres is clearly a progressive one , the particles nearest to those in actual contact being the next to come into contact , and so on , until the globes become intimately united .
In the presence of gravitation there can be no mass-attraction between the two globules .
Again , when a solid is partially immersed in a liquid having a cohesive affinity or it , e. g. a sheet of glass , the liquid , as is well known , rises considerably above the water-level .
This shows that with unlike bodies the action extends beyond contact , and is progressive in its operation from one line or row of particles to the next above .
T is .
term therefore includes all effects of cohesion which arise from and display its opera 1871 .
] Blood-corpuscles through the Walls of the Vessels .
559 of the laws which are operative in connexion with delicate colloidal films in general .
The steps , for example , in the production of an ordinary soap-sphere are very remarkable , as exemplifying the power which these films possess , under the influence of progressive cohesion , to perfect any absence of continuity w'hich may exist in their structure .
The first essential in the process of forming a soap-spliere is the production upon the mouth of the pipe-bowl of a film stretching evenly across from every point of the circumference .
The production of this film is a far more complex operation than is generally supposed .
If for the pipe-bowl we substitute a ring having a diameter of from 12 to 18 inches , we are enabled to watch , as the process proceeds , the manner in which the film is formed .
Having submerged the ring in a solution of soap , we observe , as we gradually raise it out , that its circumference brings up from the liquid a band-like film of a cylindrical or tubular form which is attached to the ring above and the liquid below ; raising up the ring still higher , we find that this annular film contracts in diameter at every part except at its attachment to the circumference of the ring , which is of course fixed .
This quality of the film to contract between opposing points of extension causes it to take on the shape of an inverted cone with curved sides , the convexities of which are directed inwards .
The tendency to assume the inverted-cone shape is further assisted by the fact that the film , in contracting , travels inwards upon the surface of the solution towards a central point , so that from the ring downwards to the surface of the solution the diameter of the tubular film is continually decreasing .
The shortest diameter is not , however , immediately upon the surface of the liquid , but at a little distance from it ; and consequently , as the contraction proceeds , it will be at this spot that the union of the sides of the film and the separation will take place .
This arises from the fact that this is the weakest point of tension between the ring and the liquid , and therefore the one in which circumferential contraction can take place with the greatest ease and effect .
Thus we see that the tubular film which we have raised really becomes constricted into two portions , \#151 ; an upper portion , which immediately contracts into a plane surface upon the ring , and a smaller and lower portion , which , in consequence of including air , becomes a hemisphere and remains attached to the surface of the solution .
If , having formed such a film upon a ring or pipe-bowl , we proceed to blow down upon it , we distend it into a sphere ; but it is obvious that until the sphere is detached tion beyond the line or boundary of actual contact .
All capillary phenomena may be regarded as due to this progressive action of cohesion operating at one and the same time in diverse directions .
560 Dr- It .
Norris on the passage of [ June 15 , there exists a free opening into it at its upper part , which becomes suddenly sealed up by cohesion of the sides of the film at the moment preceding detachment ; and this detachment is seen to be a repetition of what takes place in the formation of the primary film .
The next point to which I would draw attention is the power possessed by these films to repair breaches of continuity that may be made in them subsequently to their formation .
If any rigid body be wetted , it is quite possible to thrust it through one of these films , move it about , and again withdraw it without interfering with the integrity of the structure , as may he proved by passing a smooth bulbous rod of glass through the film .
It is not , however , essential that the body should be either smooth or regular , for the same thing may be done with the naked fist and arm .
I have demonstrated elsewhere that the blood-corpuscles undergo a mode of aggregation in obedience to progressive mutual attraction in precisely the same fashion as soap-spheres , \#151 ; that is to say , if they touch at any one point they gradually , by the operation of double cohesion ( capillary attraction ) , convert each other into polyhedral-shaped bodies* .
If we wet any smooth rigid surface and allow one point in the circumference of a bubble to impinge against it , we find that it becomes so drawn down to the plate in every direction , from this point as a centre , as to take on a hemispherical form .
But if for the rigid surface we substitute a delicate flowing film , such as the soap-film , and allow the bubble to come in contact with it at one point , taking care that there is a free supply of liquid upon its exterior at this point , we observe that the result is different .
In this case the soap-sphere takes on the form of two watch-glasses in apposition at their edges , one of the curves being present on each side of the film .
The soap-sphere has , in fact , penetrated the film , and arranged itself so that half is on one side and half on the other .
Now this is precisely analogous to what takes place with the capillary when the corpuscle has entered into cohesion with its wall ; " a protuberance is seen on the outer surface .
" If we can subject this soap-sphere to pressure on one side only , we shall cause it to protrude through the film still further ; this we can do by forming one sphere within another .
This inner sphere protrudes more than in the case of the simple film .
That there is pressure within a bubble may be known by the fact that , if left with an aperture in it , it will gradually force out the contained air and become again a simple film by its strong cohesive tendency .
Further , it will be seen that we can with the greatest ease separate these cohering spheres , bringing them bodily through the film without injury to one or the other ; and this may be taken as a parallel case to the passage of the nucleus through the capsule of the corpuscle , and of the corpuscle itself through the capillary wall .
I have previously shown that the corpuscles are amenable to the same * Proceedings of Royal Society , vol. xvii .
p. 429 .
1871 .
] Blood-corpuscles through the Walls of the Vessels* 561 laws as the soap-spheres , and we have only to infer that they bear the same relation to the capillary walls as these spheres and films bear to each other .
The margin of speculation is therefore small .
In the case of the corpuscles this relation is of course only seen under abnormal conditions , simply because it is a physical law which in the normal working of the animal economy required to be antagonized .
It must also be observed that it is only under certain conditions that the soap-spheres attract each other , or are attracted by rigid surfaces or plastic films .
This occurs only when free liquid is cohering to their surfaces .
If before bringing them into contact we allow the soap-film and sphere to become moderately dry , they will not attract each other , but the former will support the latter as a perfect sphere instead of drawing it down by progressive cohesion and arranging it halfway through itself .
Just so with the corpuscles ; they do not unite either with each other or with the capillary wall , unless their normal osmotic relations are disturbed , the exosmotic current setting in excessively when their external surfaces become coated with content-matter , and they become instantly attractive of each other , of the capillary wall or glass slide , as the case may be .
In the paper before referred to , " On the Laws concerned in the Aggregation of the Blood-corpuscles , " I have given numerous examples of the operation of progressive cohesive attraction ; but in this place I wish to call attention to the demonstration there given of its relation to plane surfaces .
Taking this experiment as a starting-point , we will extend the consideration to surfaces of a different character .
In the first place , we find that this law continues to operate with great facility in connexion with surfaces curved in one direction only , whether the surface used be convex or concave ; in both cases the film of paper or collodion applies itself evenly to the surface in the gradual progressive manner before explained .
If , however , for surfaces curved in one direction only , we substitute such as are curved in all directions ( for example , the outer or convex , or the inner or concave surfaces of a hollow sphere ) , we find ourselves confronted with a new set of difficulties , out of which we may evolve the statement that , for any film to apply itself evenly and regularly to either the convex or concave surface of a sphere under the influence of progressive attraction , it is necessary that the film should be , in several particulars of its constitution , very different from the class of films by means of which we have been able to illustrate the three preceding experiments .
If , by way of illustration , we apply a film of wetted collodion or fine cambric paper to the sphere , so that one point of the convexity of the latter may come in contact with the centre of the film , the attraction will only succeed in pulling it down to the surface of the sphere at certain points ; the intermediate puckered parts are not in contact , and can by no possibility become applied .
From this we see that for the film to be laid down evenly , it would be necessary that it should contract in certain parts , tol .
xix .
2 x 562 Dr* R* Norris on the passage of [ June 15 , that , in fact , the puckered or surplus material should he taken up .
We may say , then , that any film which can adapt itself to the surface of a spherical body must possess the twofold quality of facile contraction and expansion , these qualities being controlled in their operation by progressive cohesive attraction .
Such a film must be a simple colloidal cohesion-membrane in possession of the property of " flow .
" Further , if we apply to a sphere a film known to possess facile properties of expansion and contraction under the influence of slight forces , such as progressive cohesive attraction , the first thing seen to occur is cohesion of the film to the sphere at the point of contact ; and from this point as a centre of operation the film proceeds to apply itself gradually in all directions , so that the sphere becomes coated or covered evenly by it : this process goes on till such time as the attraction becomes balanced or fully antagonized by the elasticity of the film , that is to say , the attraction is only powerful enough to stretch the film to a certain extent ; so that if the rigid object be fixed , as is the case with the glass bulb when held immovably , we get a flattened form of the film .
A sufficient degree of attachment of the film to the bulb has taken place to stretch the former backwards out of its normal plane .
If , now , we push the bulb further forwards , the film still continues to apply itself to its surface , and having reached the equatorial line of the sphere , descends on the opposite hemisphere till the bulb is completely coated .
But it will be said the bulb does not then really produce an infraction of the film , but merely attracts it down to its surface , and in so doing stretches it , so that it is in reality a new conformation of the film and not a breach of its continuity .
That this is true to a certain extent there is no doubt , but it is not all the truth ; for we may wipe the bulb dry after it has passed through the film without interfering with the continuity of the latter .
All that appears to be necessary for these effects to display themselves is , that there should be mutual cohesion between the film and the body passing through it ; for if we press against one of these delicate films with a substance which has no cohesion for it , e. g. a current of air or a dry soap-sphere , it simply distends the film , neither bursting it nor giving rise to an aperture in it ; while in the case of a body to which the film can cohere , it would appear to be easier for the latter to allow the passage of the cohering body than to suffer distension by it , and this because it has under these conditions as great an attraction for the particles of the body as for its own particles .
When the cohering body has become perfectly applied to the film , the latter , by the cohesiveness of its own particles , contracts to the greatest degree possible consistent with still maintaining its attachment to the cohering body ; and this in spherical-shaped bodies leads to a condition of things in which half the body is within and half without the film or wall* ; therefore the rest of the process must be * An excellent , illustration of this principle is afforded when a light india-rubber ball or balloon is suspended from a fixed point , its surface having previously been wetted with a solution of soap .
When a soap-film formed upon the ring , as in the previous 1871 .
] Blood-corpuscles through the Walls of the Vessels .
accomplished by pressure from within .
It is easy to see that the manner or degree to which the corpuscle or body coheres to the film will determine very materially the method of its transmission .
All , then , that is essential fora rigid or plastic body to pass through a colloid film is 1st , an intimate power of cohesion* either mediately or immediately , between the film and the body ; 2nd , a certain amount of pressure from within ; 3rd , power in the substance of the film to cohere to the surface of the body ( or to some intermediate matter which already coheres to the surface ) during its passage ; 4 th , cohesive plasticity of the particles of the material of which the film itself is composed , so that the breach in it may again become reunited as it descends upon the opposite surface of the body which is being extruded . .
It is quite remarkable to how great an extent these conditions appear to be complied with in the passage of the white corpuscle through the capillary wall , as affirmed by independent observers .
In the factitious examples ; by which I have sought to illustrate these effects , the film moves over the body , or the body through the film , by virtue of the intermediate agency of the solution which has cohesive attraction for both ; and the film does not rupture , because , while the body is travelling through , it can continue to cohere till such time as it is brought again into contact with its own particles at the opposite pole of the extruded body .
Theoretically , as it leaves the sphere or protruding body , the aperture should gradually narrow to absolute union at a focal point , or , according to the laying-down view , having resealed itself from the bulb ; practically , however , I find that the film rarely leaves the bulb or sphere without forming on it a small hemispherical bubble , which is large in the ratio of the rapidity with which the detachment is effected .
If detached with very great care , the bubble is exceedingly small ; but I could not succeed with a spherical bulb in getting rid of it altogether ; with a more conical bulb , however , this was readily effected .
In the ease of the sphere , the film is in reality drawn out into a little neck , as in the other examples in which continuity is effected ; and this neck is pulled into two , and both parts cohering at the point of severance , we get on the one side the perfected film , and on the other a small enclosure of air which takes on the hemispherical form .
This is owing to the annular contraction of the tubular part .
If the body were small or less spherical , or the film a trifle more rigid , this would not occur .
I find , in fact , by experiment ' that smaller bodies , more conical in their termination , do not do this , but draw out a kind of streak of solution as they leave the film\#151 ; a fact I have often observed with the white corpuscles .
In experiments , is brought into contact with one point of its convexity , the ball is at once drawn into the film as far as its equator , and is compelled to retain this position in opposition to the force of gravity .
This is the exact converse of the case of the fixed bulb , in which the attraction is satisfied at the expense of the expansibility of the film , 2x2 Presents .
[ May 25 , this case the film is brought to a focus upon the body , and not at a slight distance from it ; so that either or both these modes might obtain with the corpuscle .
In some cases the streak of solution is absent .
The method of sealing , which leaves behind a portion of the film , is probably a necessity of every case of repair of continuity , with the exception of that of trans-mission of a foreign body through a film .
In the case of the blood-corpuscle it would not appear that the capillary wall became applied over the surface of the corpuscle to any great extent , but that , having effected cohesion , it becomes easier for the capillary wall to give way and glide over the corpuscle than to be distended by it ; and this is effected much slower than in the case of the factitious examples which I have placed before you .
For capillarity to come into play , the presence on the exterior of the corpuscle of another and cohesively dissimilar liquid to the liquor sanguinis is required ; and this we obtain by the outward passage , under the influence of osmosis , of the content-matter ( haemoglobin ) of the corpuscle ; a magnified view of the relations present may be thus represented Capillary wall .
We may conclude in the appropriate words of Herbert Spencer:\#151 ; i ** We have in these colloids , of which organisms are mainly composed , just the required compromise between fluidity and solidity ; they cannot be reduced to the unduly mobile conditions of liquid and gas , and yet they do not assume the unduly fixed condition usually characterizing solids ; the absence of power to unite together in polar arrangement leaves their atoms with a certain freedom of relative movement , which makes them sensitive to small forces , and produces plasticity in the aggregates composed of them."\#151 ; Principles of Biology , p. 23 .
The Society adjourned over the Long Vacation to Thursday , November 16th .
Presents received May 1871 .
Transactions .
Bremen:\#151 ; Naturwissenschaffcliche Vereine .
Abhandlungen .
Band II .
Heft 3 .
8vo .
Bremen 1871 .
The Society .
- Frankfurt a. M.:\#151 ; Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft .
Abhandlungen .
BandVII .
Heft3,4 .
4to .
70 .
Bericht 1869-70 .
8vo .
Frankfurt 1870 .
The Society .
Jena ; \#151 ; Med^cinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft .
JenaischeZeit-

