378 Major W. H. Horrocks .
Goats as a [ July , June 18 about 5 c.c. of blood was taken from Goat No. 6 and distributed in six broth-tubes .
On June 25 passages from the broth-tubes were made on to agar slopes , and the M. melitensisrecovered in pure culture .
This microorganism was also recovered from the blood of Goat No. 5 .
Blood was also taken from Goats Nos. 1 , 2 , and 3 , but so far the M. melitensis has not been recovered .
Material from Abattoir.\#151 ; Dr. Caruana Scicluna having suggested that possibly infected goats might be met with in the abattoir , I have examined 46 spleens , and have recovered the M. melitensis from one .
The blood of seven of these goats gave a positive reaction to the agglutination test .
Preliminary Note on Goats as a Means of Propagation of Mediterranean Fever .
By Major W. H. Horrocks , R.A.M.C. , Member of the Mediterranean Fever Commission .
( Commuidcated by Colonel Bruce , C.B. , F.R.S.\#151 ; Received July , 1905 .
) With the object of ascertaining , by experimental inoculation , whether goats could be infected by the M. melitensis , six goats were bought on June 12 , 1905 , from two different herds , and placed in the lazaretto .
On June 14 Dr. Zammit , as a preliminary step to our experimental work , took blood from each of these goats , and proceeded to test the action of the serum on the M. melitensis .
He found , to his great surprise , that the serum of five of the goats , when considerably diluted , caused agglutination of this microbe .
On June 15 similar results being again obtained , Dr. Zammit brought specimens of the bloods to the Public Health Laboratory , and asked me to confirm his observations .
I obtained the following results :\#151 ; Goat No. 1.\#151 ; Blood serum diluted 1 to 10 and 1 to 40 caused immediate agglutination of the M. melitensis , visible to the naked eye .
When diluted 1 to 100 , however , the serum gave no reaction .
Goat No. 2.\#151 ; Bluod serum diluted 1 to 10 and 1 to 40 caused immediate agglutination of the M. melitensis .
A dilution of 1 t0 100 produced a complete reaction after 15 minutes .
1905 .
] Means of Propagation of Mediterranean Fever .
379 Goat No. 3.\#151 ; Blood serum diluted 1 to 10 , 1 to 40 , and 1 to 100 , caused immediate agglutination of the but , in the case of the dilution 1 to 100 , the clumps were not visible to the naked eye until after 15 minutes .
Goat No. 4.\#151 ; The blood serum produced no reaction with the melitensis .
Goat No. 5.\#151 ; The blood serum diluted 1 to 10 caused immediate agglutination , but dilutions of 1 to 40 and 1 to 100 did not produce a complete reaction until after 15 minutes .
Goat No. 6.\#151 ; Blood serum diluted 1 to 300 caused complete agglutination of the M. melitensis , visible at once with the naked eye .
The reactions thus obtained , and especially that of Goat No. 6 , suggested that possibly live of the goats were suffering from Mediterranean Fever acquired under natural conditions .
The goats were stated to be healthy , but were sold cheaply , as they had given very little milk for some time .
They were bought.from pens in the neighbourhood of Birehircara and St. Julians , and taken straight to the lazaretto , where they were placed in clean stalls , which had never been used for any experimental work with the M. melitensis .
I)r .
Zammit and I then arranged to make a complete study of these animals ; Dr. Zammit undertook the investigation of the blood , and I made myself responsible for the bacteriological examination of the milk and urine .
Bacteriological Examination of Milk and Urine obtained from Naturally Infected Goats .
Goat No. 6.\#151 ; I commenced work with this goat , as its blood serum , when diluted 1 to 300 , caused immediate agglutination of the M. melitensis .
The animal dfd not appear well , and had a very poor coat .
The udders were flaccid , but the milk exuded appeared normal in character .
The temperature was taken morning and evening , and compared with that of a healthy goat .
The evening temperature never rose above 103 ' , and , as this temperature is often recorded in the case of perfectly normal goats , a febrile temperature could not be said to be present .
On June *18 milk was withdrawn , and 1 c.c. centrifugalised ; the deposit was then carefully spread over 10 litmus-nutrose-agar plates .
After four days ' incubation at 37 ' C. , colonies of the M. melitensis appeared in every plate .
The colonies were at once tested with a dilute ( 1 to 100 ) specific serum obtained from an inoculated rabbit .
The micrococci were found to agglutinate at once , the clumps being visible to the naked eye.- Some of the colonies were then planted out on agar slopes , and the resulting growths , when subjected to the usual confirmatory tests , showed that the M. melitensis was undoubtedly being excreted in the milk of this goat .
380 Major W. H. Horrocks .
Goats as a [ July , On June 22 the milk was again examined and the M. recovered once more .
On June 23 examination of the urine was commenced .
The vagina was washed out with an antiseptic solution and a catheter , previously sterilised in boiling water , passed into the bladder .
The urine so obtained was plated on litmus-nutrose-agar , but after four days ' incubation at 37 ' C. , in spite of the precautions taken , the plates were found densely crowded with saprophytic organisms , and the M. melitensis could not be detected .
On June 24 and 26 the urine was again plated , the same precautions being used , but the plates were densely crowded with foreign organisms , and the M. melitensis could not be seen .
On June 27 , 28 , 29 , and 30 , and on July 1 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and 10 , the urine was also examined , but up to the present the melitensis has not been recovered .
The milk was plated again in June and July , and the melitensis was found on each occasion .
' Result.\#151 ; The M. melitensis appears to be steadily excreted in the apparently normal milk of this goat , but up to the present it has not been found in the urine .
Goat No. 1.\#151 ; This animal appeared healthy , but the udders were flaccid , and the milk exuded had a thin serous appearance .
The temperature was taken regularly , but no indications of fever were observed .
On June 22 , 1 c.c. of the milk was centrifugalised and the deposit plated .
After four days ' incubation at 37 ' C. , the plates were found so densely crowded with colonies of the M. melitensis that an accurate count could not be made .
On June 24 and 26 the milk was again examined and similar results were obtained .
On June 26 , 29 , and 30 the urine was examined , but no signs of the M. melitensis could be discovered .
On July 1 , 10 c.c. of the urine were centrifugalised and the deposit plated ; four days later every plate was found studded with colonies of the specific microbe .
The colonies were fished , planted on agar slopes , and the resulting growths tested in the usual manner .
Result.\#151 ; The M.melitensis is excreted in very large numbers in the serous looking milk of this goat .
It is also excreted in the urine .
Goat No. 2.\#151 ; This goat appeared quite well , and the milk exuded from the udders had a normal appearance .
There were no indications of fever .
On June 22 , 1 c.c. was centrifugalised and the deposit plated .
After foui days incubation about 30 colonies appeared in every plate .
On June 24 1905 .
] Means of Propagation of Mediterranean Fever .
381 and 26 the milk was again examined , and colonies of the M. were recovered on both occasions .
The urine was examined on June 23 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 29 , and 30 , and on July 1,3 , and 6 , but the M. melitensis could not be detected .
^ Result.\#151 ; The M. melitensis appears to be excreted in small quantity in the ii normal-looking milk of this goat .
It has not yet been detected in the urine .
Goat No. 3.\#151 ; This goat looked healthy and had no fever , but its milk was thin and serous .
On June 22 the milk was examined , one loopful of the serous milk being spread over each plate .
After four days ' incubation all the plates were found so densely crowded with colonies of the melitensis that an accurate count could not be made .
1,4 On June 24 and 26 the milk was again examined and similar results were : again obtained .
The urine was examined on June 23 , 26 , 28 , and 30 , and on July 1 , 3 , 6 , 8 , si !
9 , 10 , 11 , but no signs of the M. melitensis could be discovered .
Result.\#151 ; The M. melitensis appears to be present in enormous quantities in the thin serous-looking milk of this goat , but it has not yet been found in si the urine .
Goat No. 5.\#151 ; This goat was in poor condition , the udders were flaccid , and \lt ; the milk exuded had a thick jelly-like appearance .
On June 22 the milk was examined , one loopful of the jelly-like material being spread over each plate .
After four days ' incubation all the plates were 3:4 covered with minute colonies of the M. melitensis .
On June 24 and 26 the uejf milk was again examined , and densely crowded plates were obtained as lit before .
On June 25 and 30 the urine was examined , but no colonies of the M. melitensis were detected .
On July 1 the urine was again plated , and four days later every plate was y found to contain numerous transparent colonies strongly resembling those of the M. melitensis .
Some of the colonies were fished and planted out on agar slopes .
The resulting growths were then subjected to the usual confirmatory tests , and the M. melitensis proved to be undoubtedly present .
The five goats just examined being considered by their owners to be " out of milk , " would not be likely to be employed for milking purposes , though in the case of Goats Nos. 2 and 6 , the milk might easily have been used without any fear of suspicion arising as to its being abnormal .
Consequently it appeared very desirable to examine the herds which were actually supplying milk to Valetta , Sliema , and the various hospitals .
I therefore asked Captain Kennedy , R.A.M.C. , to visit the various herds , and , with the owner 's consent , take blood from the ears , and test the action ol Major W. H. Horrocks .
Goats as a [ July , the sera on the M. melitensis .
The results he obtained are given in Part VlH ; it will be seen that , out of 161 goats examined , 84 gave a reaction , corresponding to a percentage of 52 probably infected with Mediterranean Fever , I then obtained samples of milk from some of the apparently infected animals , and proceeded to plate them on litmus-nutrose-agar .
The following results have been obtained up to the present time:\#151 ; Examination of the Goats supplying Milk to Forrest Hospital .
I visited this herd , which assembles outside the hospital gate every morning , and selected Goats Nos. 38 , 48 , 37 , and 43 from Captain Kennedy 's list .
Goat No. 38.\#151 ; The milk from this animal was centrifugalised , and the deposit plated on July 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , and 10 , but , up to the present , the M. melitensis has not been isolated .
Goat No. 48.\#151 ; The milk was examined on the same dates as Goat No. 38 , but , so far , the M. melitensis has not been isolated .
Goat No. 37.\#151 ; The milk of this animal was taken on July 4 , and 2 c.c. centrifugalised ; the deposit was then plated .
After four days ' incubation every plate was found densely crowded with small colonies of the M. melitensis ; the colonies were so numerous that it was impossible to make an accurate count- The colonies were fished and planted on agar , the growths resulting responded to all the tests characteristic of the M. melitensis .
On July 5 and 6 the milk was again plated , and similar results were obtained .
As this goat was in full milk , there cannot be any doubt that the M. melitensis was being excreted in large numbers .
A pint of the milk was then collected , and Dr. Zaminit very kindly made a chemical examination of the sample .
The result given below shows that the milk was of good quality .
Analysis of Milk from Goat No. 37 .
Density at 15 ' C. ... ... ... ... ... .
1030 Kat ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 4-3 per cent. Total solids ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 13T8 " Solids , non-fat ... ... ... ... ... . .
8*8 " Ash ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 051 " Goat No. 43.\#151 ; The milk of this goat was examined on July 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 3 , 9 , and 10 , but , up to the present , the M. melitensis has not been isolated .
A reference to Captain Kennedy 's list shows that , while Goat No. 37 reacted in a dilution of 1 to 60 , Goats Nos. 38 , 48 , and 43 only reacted in a dilution of 1 to 20 , and were probably in an early stage of the disease .
1905 .
] Means of Propagation of Mediterranean .
383 Examination of a Small Herd supplying Milk to Valetta Station Hospital .
Goats Nos. 27 , 30 , and 32 were selected from this herd .
The goats were kept at Casal Curmi , and brought every morning to the Station Hospital .
Goat No. 30.\#151 ; On June 29 and 30 milk was centrifugalised and plated in the usual manner , but the M. melitensis was not detected .
On July 1 plates were again made , and a few typical colonies appeared .
On July 3 10 c.c. of the milk were centrifugalised , and the deposit plated ; four days later every plate was found densely crowded with colonies of the M. melitensis .
On July 6 similar results were obtained .
A sample of the milk was then analysed by Dr. Zammit , and found to have an average chemical composition .
Goats Nos. 27 and 32.\#151 ; The milk from these goats was examined on June 29 and 30 , and on July 1 , 3 , 7 , 8 , and 10 , but , up to the present , the M. melitensis has not been isolated .
Examination of a Small Herd Supplying Milk to Valetta .
This herd assembled in St. John 's ditch , and 17 out of 25 animals showed a blood reaction with the M. melitensis , and six of them reacted when the serum was diluted 1 to 100 .
Goats Nos. 50 and 52 were selected from Captain Kennedy 's list .
Goat No. 50.\#151 ; On July 6 , 1 c.c. of the milk was centrifugalised and the deposit spread over the usual plates .
Four days later all the plates were iound densely crowded with small colonies of M. melitensis .
The confirmatory tests were applied in the usual manner .
This animal was considered one of the best milkers in the herd , and its owner valued it at \#163 ; 5 , whereas the ordinary price for a goat in milk varies from \#163 ; 3 to \#163 ; 4 .
Goat No. 52.\#151 ; This animal appeared in good health and its udders were full of milk .
It was purchased and placed in the lazaretto .
On July 5 milk was withdrawn and 1 c.c. centrifugalised ; the deposit was then spread over nutrose-agar plates in the usual manner .
After four days ' incubation at 37 ' C. , all the plates were found so crowded with colonies of M. melitensis that a reliable count could not be made .
On July 6 and 8 the milk was again examined and similar results were obtained .
A sample of the milk was submitted to Dr. Zammit for chemical analysis ; he obtained the following results :\#151 ; Specific gravity at 15 ' C ... ... ... 1031 Total solids , 14'0 per cent. ; fat , 3'6 per cent. ; ash , 0 73 per cent. 384 Goats as a Means of Propagation of Mediterranean T Examination of a Herd Supplying Milk to Sliema .
Two goats were bought from this herd and placed in the lazaretto .
The pens were in the neighbourhood of Misida .
Goat No. 15.\#151 ; On July 5 the blood was examined and the serum , diluted 1 to 50 , was found to .
cause complete agglutination of the M. visible to the naked eye .
The goat appeared to be in good health , and the udders were full of milk .
Some milk was withdrawn and 2 c.c. centrifugalised ; the \#166 ; !
deposit was then plated in the usual manner .
On July 9 the plates were found covered with small colonies of the M. melitensis .
On July 6 the milk was again examined , and the deposit from 1 c.c. produced as before an immense number of colonies of M. melitensis .
The urine was withdrawn by a catheter and plated on J uly 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and 10 , but up to the present the M. melitensis has not been isolated .
A chemical analysis of the milk was made by Dr. Micalef , with the following results:\#151 ; Total solids , 13-5 per cent. ; fat , 4T per cent. ; ash , 0*75 per cent. Goat No. 16.\#151 ; This goat was taken from the same herd as No. 15 .
On July 4 the blood was examined , and the serum diluted 1 to 60 , was found to cause immediate clumping of the M. melitensis .
The milk and urine have been examined daily since July 4 , but up to the present the M. melitensis has not been isolated from either source .
Conclusions.\#151 ; The results obtained show that some of the goats in every herd examined are suffering from Mediterranean Fever .
The M. melitensis is exuded in the milk in enormous numbers when the disease has been present sufficiently long to cause a change in the physical characters of the fluid .
It is also excreted in considerable numbers even when the animals are in " full milk , " and no changes have occurred in either the physical or chemical characters of the milk .
The M. melitensis is also excreted in the urine of goats suffering from Mediterranean Fever , but up to the present it has only been found when the disease has existed for some time and physical changes have occurred in the milk .

