X. On the Chinese rear .
By J. F. DAVIs , Esq. F. R. S. Read December 19 , 182z .
ALL investigation into the Chinese knowledge of astronomy tends only to prove , that before the introduction of that science into the empire , first by the Arabians , and afterwards by the'European missionaries , they were wholly ignorant of its principles .
It is true that CoNFUCius has recorded thirtysix eclipses of the sun , the greater number of which have been verified by the calculations of European astronomers : but , as has been very truly observed , the recording an eclipse may prove the authenticity of historical annals , while , at the same time , it proves nothing as to the existence of astronomical science .
As far as related to the mere observation of the sky , the Chinese have , from the earliest periods , been very particular and assiduous .
The remark of Du HALDE , that " all these observations are not a little serviceable in ascertaining their chronology , " is very true , but they by no means prove ( what he sometimes appears desirous to establish ) , that the Chinese were astronomers .
On this one subject , that singular nation has deviated from its established prejudices and maxims against introducing what is foreign ; and that a people so self-sufficient and vain , should at once , in open violation of their general practice , have adopted the science of foreigners , and raised its professors to high dignities , is the strongest possible proof that they had no science of their own .
It even appears * The most sensible estimate of the extent of Chinese knowledge has been made by RENAUDOT , in his observations on the accounts of the Arabian travellers .
that they have in former times adopted the very errors of European astronomy .
The writer of this discovered , in an old Chinese book , the most exact delineation of the Ptolemaic system , with its crystalline orbs , primum mobile , &amp;c. &amp;c. and the earth occupying a conspicuous place in the centre of all .
Indeed it is impossible not to smile at the idea of attributing any science to a people whose learned books are filled with such trumpery as the diagrams of Fo-hi , and a hundred other puerilities of the same kind .
There cannot be a doubt that the instruments mentioned by Du HALDE , as having been found by the missionaries on their first entrance into the country , were constructed by the Arabians .
His observation , that " the uses of these instruments were written in Chinese characters , with the names of the constellations , which are 28 in number , " proves nothing to the contrary .
The guns which were cast for the Chinese by Europeans , were always inscribed with Chinese characters ; and the ungrateful vanity of that people has invariably led them , when they have borrowed any thing from foreigners , to conceal the debt as much as possible .
In proof of this , the writer is able to state the following fact : when Mr. PEARSON made them his invaluable present of the vaccine inoculation , it was accompanied by a small pamphlet in Chinese , containing a few necessary directions as to the use of the virus , and stating the discovery to have been English .
An eapurgata edition of this little book was very soon after published , in which not one word was retained as to its origin , nor any trace by which it could be known that the discovery of vaccination was otherwise than Chinese .
In the accompanying view [ P1 .
XIII .
J of the Chinese year , are marked down , in the outer circle of all , the signs of our I/ i- . ?
2 .
M)DCCCX-L tI .
-ZeiZVp.j J3t '7 tZ7 &gt; , rM nrSttr 7)7 &gt; ; ' VS I ) ec fhl/ &gt; 66 ' .
J - , A,.1 IlI L--I II I. i 92 I European zodiac , for the sake of comparison ; and in the second circle is described their zodiac , or the twenty-eight constellations , with the same number of degrees affixed to each , as are given to them in the Chinese books , making 360 in all .
It will be observed that they are extremely unequal , the largest , i tsing , consisting of 30 degrees , and the least , X tsuy , of not more than about half a degree .
Of these 28 constellations , Kio , denoted by Spica Virginis , is considered as the first in order.* In the circle next to the constellations are noted the Chinese moons , or months , of which.j ching is the ist , urh is the 2nd , &amp;c. : and in the innermost circle are described the 24 Tsie-ky , or divisions of half moons , each consisting of about 15 days .
Their names have a reference to some prevailing circumstance in each season , as pj 9k Tu-shuy , " rain and water , " tsing-ming , " clear and bright , " ta &amp; o ta-siu , " much snow , " &amp;c. The Chinese , as far as the writer of this knows , have no solar year , unless their celebration of a grand festival at the , ( Zl tung-chy , or winter solstice , may be considered as an observance of its annual limits .
Du HALDE says , that " their ( solar ) year is composed of 365 days and somewhat less than 6 hours , and from an epoch regulated by the winter solstice , which was the fixed point of their observations , as the ist degree of Aries is of ours , reckoning from a hundred to a hundred degrees , they calculated the motions of the planets , and adjusted all things by equation tables : some supposed that they received them from the Arabians , who entered with the Tartars into China .
" He afterwards acknowledges , that " though the Chinese have distinguished the course of the sun into 365 days and 15 minutes , of which we compose one year , they regard more the lunations , than the course of the sun .
" The Chinese year , properly considered as such , is in fact a lunar year , consisting of twelve months of twentynine and thirty days alternately , with the triennial intercalation of a thirteenth month , to make it correspond more nearly with the sun 's course.* It has not been discovered ( with any degree of certainty ) , why they fix upon the isth degree of Aquarius as a rule for regulating the commencement of their lunar year : but they have an annual festival about the recurrence of this period , which bears a considerable resemblance to the deification of the bull Apis ; and this resemblance is increased by the connection of both ceremonies with the labours of agriculture , and with the hopes of an abundant season.t This coincidence may serve to fortify the opinions of those who are fond of tracing the Chinese to the Egyptians ; although the possibility of such a derivation has been ably disproved by M. DE PAUW .
An astronomical work , in which the writer of this found the Chinese planisphere , comprised in 12 charts of the heavens , mentions the N. Pole as being 36 ?
above the horizon , and hence he concludes , that what it contains is independent of the astronomy which was afterwards introduced by the European Missionaries , because , as the elevation of the pole at any particular place is the latitude of that place , it is probable the contents of this book were compiled when the Chinese Court and observatory were in Honan , a part of which province is as high as 36 ?
N. : It appears from Du HALDE , that the astronomical instruments , mentioned above as having been constructed by the Arabians for the Chinese , were calculated for 36 ?
latitude .
Mr. REEVES , of Canton , has with much labour compared the modern Chinese planisphere with the European constellations , and his catalogue of stars is printed at the end of Dr. MORRISONNS Dictionary .
J. F. DAvis .
95

