III .
" On a Cause of Error in Electroscopic Experiments .
" By Sir CHARLES WHEATSTONE , F.R.S. Received April 26 , 1870 .
To arrive at accurate conclusions from the indications of an electroscope or electrometer , it is necessary to be aware of all the sources of error which may occasion these indications to be misinterpreted .
In the course of some experiments on electrical conduction and induction which I have recently resumed , I was frequently delayed by what at first appeared to be very puzzling results .
Occasionally I found that I could not discharge the electrometer with my finger , or only to a certain degree , and that it was necessary , before commencing another experiment , to place myself in communication with a gas-pipe which entered the room .
How I became charged I could not at that time explain ; the following chain of observations and experiments , however , soon led me to the true solution .
I was sitting at a table not far from the fireplace with the electrometer ( one of Peltielr 's construction ) before me , andwas engaged in experimenting with disks of various substances .
To ensure that the one I had in hand , which was of tortoiseshell , should be'perfectly dry , I rose and held it for a minute before the fire ; returning and placing it on the plate of the electrometer , I was surprised to find that it had apparently acquired a strong charge , deflecting the index of the electrometer beyond 90 ? .
I found that the same thing took place with every disk I thus presented to the fire , whether of metal or any other substance .
My first impression was that the disk had been rendered electrical by heat , though it would have been extraordinary that , if so , such a result had not been observed before ; but 330 [ Apr. 28 , on placing it in contact with a vessel of boiling water , or heating it by a gas-lamp , no such effect was produced .
I next conjectured that the phenomenon might arise from a difference in the electrical state of the air in the room and that at the top of the chimney ; and to put this to the proof , I adjourned to the adjacent room where there was no fire , and bringing my disk to the fireplace I obtained precisely the same result .
That this conjecture , however , was not tenable was soon evident , because I was able to produce the same deviation of the needle of the electrometer bybringing my disk near anypart of the wall of the room .
This seemed to indicate that different parts of the room were in different electrical states ; but this again was disproved by finding that when the position of the electrometer and the place where the disk was supposed to be charged were interchanged , the charge of the electrometer was still always negative .
The last resource was to assume that my body had become charged by walking across the carpeted room , though the effect was produced even by the most careful treading .
This ultimately proved to be the case ; for resuming my seat at the table and scraping my foot on the rug , I was able at will to move the index to its greatest extent .
Before I proceed further I may state that a gold-leaf electrometer shows the phenomena as readily .
When I first observed these effects the weather was frosty ; but they present themselves , as I have subsequently found , almost equally well in all states of the weather , provided the room be perfectly dry .
I will now proceed to state the conditions which are necessary for the complete success of the experiments , and the absence of which has prevented them from being hitherto observed in the striking manner in which they have appeared to me .
The most essential condition appears to be that the boot or shoe of the experimenter must have a thin sole and be perfectly dry ; a surface polished by wear seems to augment the effect .
By rubbing the sole of the boot against the carpet or rug , the electricities are separated , the carpet as .
sumes the positive state and the sole the negative state ; the former being a tolerable insulator , prevents the positive electricity from running away to the earth , while the sole of the foot , being a much better conductor , readily allows the charge of negative electricity to pass into the body .
So effective is the excitation , that if three persons hold each other by the hands , and the first rubs the carpet with his foot while the third touches the plate of the electrometer with his finger , a strong charge is communicated to the instrument .
Even approaching the electrometer by the hand or body , it becomes charged by induction at some distance .
A stronger effect is produced on the index of the instrument if , after rubbing the foot against the carpet , it be immediately raised from it .
When the two are in contact , the electricities are in some degree coerced or dissimulated ; but when they are separated , the whole of the negative electricity becomes free and expands itself in the body .
A single stamp on the carpet followed by an immediate removal of the foot causes the index of the electrometer to advance several degrees , and by a reiteration of such stamps the index advances 30 ?
or 40 ? .
The opposite electrical states of the carpet and the sole of the boot were thus shown : after rubbing , I removed the boot from the carpet , and placed on the latter a proof-plate ( i. e. a small disk of metal with an insulating handle ) , and then transferred it to the plate of the electrometer ; strong positive electricity was manifested .
Performing the same operation with the sole of the boot a very small charge was carried , by reason of its ready escape into the body .
The negative charge assumed by sole-leather when rubbed with animal hair was thus rendered evident .
I placed on the plate of the electrometer a disk of sole-leather and brushed it lightly with a thick camel's-hair pencil ; a negative charge was communicated to the electrometer , which charge was principally one of conduction , on account of the very imperfect insulating power of the leather .
Various materials , as India-rubber , gutta percha , &amp;c. , were substituted for the sole of the boot ; metal plates were also tried ; all communicated negative electricity to the body .
Woollen stockings are a great impediment to the transmission of electricity from the boot ; when these experiments were made I wore cotton ones .
When I substituted for the electrometer a long wire galvanometer , such as is usually employed in physiological experiments , the needle was made to advance several degrees .
At the Meeting of the British Association at Dublin in 1857 , Professor Loomis , of New York , attracted great attention by his account of some remarkable electrical phenomena observed in certain houses in that city .
It appears that in unusually cold and dry winters , in rooms provided with thick carpets and heated by stoves or hot-air apparatus to 70 ?
, electrical phenomena of great intensity are sometimes produced .
A lady walking along a carpeted floor drew a spark one quarter of an inch in length between two metal balls , one attached to a gas-pipe , the other touched by her hand ; she also fired ether , ignited a gaslight , charged a Leyden jar , and repelled and attracted pith-balls similarly or dissimilarly electrified .
Some of these statements were received with great incredulity at the time both here and abroad , but they have since been abundantly confirmed by the Professor himself and by others .
( See Silliman 's American Journal of Science , July 1858 .
) My experiments show that these phenomena are exceptional only in degree .
The striking effects observed by Professor Loomis were feeble unless the thermometer was below the freezing-point , and most energetic when near zero , the thermometer in the room standing at 70 ? .
Those observed by myself succeed in almost any weather , when all the necessary conditions are fulfilled ; Some of these conditions must frequently be 33 present , and experimentalists cannot be too much on their guard against the occurrence of these abnormal effects .
I think I have done a service to them , especially to those engaged in the delicate investigations of animal electricity , by drawing their attention to the subject .

