132 [ Feb. 28 , Profs .
Liveing and Dewar More generally we may obtain sqo \ f " x2r+1 + a C ' J ( 84 .
) r de loge ( 1 + afoos r0 ) .
Jo and many others .
( 83 .
) [ ' co3.lg.-- ' ?
9 .
Jo 1 + arcos / q w n. f71 , d6 loge ( 1 + a ?
cos r6 ) Ja l + 2mcos0+mr II .
" On tbue Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
" By G. D. Liveing , M.A. , Professor of Chemistry , and J. Dewar , : M.A. , F.R.S. , Jacksonian Professor , University of Cambridge .
No. I. Since the celebrated paper by Kirch ho ff , " On the relation between the radiating and absorbing powers of different bodies for light and heat/ 1 in which he detailed the remarkable experiments of reversing the lines of lithium and sodium by sunlight and by the vapours of those : metals in the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , and mentioned the reversal of the brighter lines of potassium , calcium , strontium and barium when the deflagration of the chlorates with milk-sugar was used instead of the flame of a Bunsen 's burner , further researches in the same direction have been made by Cornu , Lockyer , and Roberts . !
The method adopted by Cornu , which had been previously used by Foucault , is one of great ingenuity , dependent upon so arranging the electric arc that the continuous spectrum of the intensely heated poles is examined through an atmosphere of the metallic vapours volatilized around them .
By this means Cornu succeeded in reversing several lines in the spectra of the following metals in addition to those above-mentioned , viz. , thallium , lead , silver , aluminum , magnesium , cadmium , zinc , and copper .
He observed that in general j the reversal began with the least refrangible of a group of lines , and j gradually extended to the more refrangible lines of the group ; and he | drew the conclusion that a very thin layer of vapour was sufficient fori the reversal .
It may be noted that in almost every case the lines seen | by him to be reversed were the more highly refrangible of the lines 1 characteristic of each metal , confirming generally the opinion expressed !
by Stokes in a letter to Lockyer in the Proceedings of the Royal I Society for 1876 , in which he introduces for the first time the idea of I the persistency of different rays with reference to temperature .
The method adopted by Lockyer in the first instance was to view | the electric arc through the vapours of the metals volatilized in a stream of hydrogen in a horizontal iron tube .
1878 .
] on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
133 The iron tube had its ends covered with glass plates , and was heated in a furnace supplied with charcoal .
By this means he did not succeed in observing any new reversal of bright lines , but he noticed an unknown absorption line which sometimes appeared when zinc was experimented on .
He confirmed , however , the channelled-space absorption spectra observed by Roscoe and Schuster , in the cases of potassium and sodium , and recooded channelled-space spectra in the case of antimony , phosphorus ( ?
) , sulphur ( previously observed by Salet ) and arsenic ( probably ) .
" As the temperature employed for the volatilization of the metals did not exceed bright redness , or that at which cast-iron readily melts , the range of metals examined was necessarily limited ; and in order to extend these observations to the less fusible metals , as well as to ascertain whether the spectra of those volatilized at the lower temperature would be modified by the application of a greater degree of heat , " a new series of experiments were undertaken by Lockyer and Roberts , in which the combined action of a charcoal furnace and the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe was employed .
By this means they obtained no new reversal of a metallic line , but they observed channelled-space spectra in the cases of silver , manganese , chromium , and bismuth .
They observed , however , that the metal thallium gave the characteristic bright green line , the light of the arc not being reversed .
In the above-mentioned experiments the coolness of the ends of the tube , which acted as condensers of the metallic vapours , and the inequality of density and temperatures necessarily produced by the maintenance of a current of hydrogen in the tube , appear to us to account for the complication and uncertainty of the results of the observations .
In order to examine the reversal of the spectra of metallic vapours , we find it more satisfactory to observe the absorptive effect produced on the continuous spectrum emitted by the sides and end of the tube in which the volatilization takes place .
For this purpose we find it convenient to use iron tubes about half-an-inch in internal diameter , and about 27 inches long , closed at one end , thoroughly cleaned inside , and coated on the outside with borax , or with a mixture of plumbago and fireclay .
These tubes are inserted in a nearly vertical position in a furnace fed with W elsh coal , which will heat about 10 inches of the tube to about a welding heat , and we observe through the upper open end of the tube , either with or without , a cover of glass or mica .
To exclude oxygen , and avoid as much as possible variations of temperature , we introduce hydrogen in a gentle stream by a narrow tube into the upper part only of the iron tube , so that the hydrogen floats on the surface of the metallic vapour without producing convection currents in it .
By varying the length of the small tube conveying the hydrogen , we are able to determine the height in the tube to which the 134 Profs .
Living and Dewar [ Feb. 28 , metallic vapour reaches , and to prevent further displacement of the vapour , and thus to maintain different lengths of the iron tube full of metallic vapour at a comparatively constant temperature for considerable periods of time .
By this means the following observations have been made up to the present time .
The first metal experimented on was thallium , one of the most volatile of metals .
On inserting some pieces into the hot tube , we had at first great difficulty in avoiding oxidation at the upper surface , and we observed no reversal .
However , after arranging the current of hydrogen so as to keep the tube free from air , but without any rapid movement of the gas , we succeeded in seeing the characteristic line reversed , and maintained it so for a considerable time .
The metal indium , closely allied in its behaviour and volatility to thallium , was next examined , and although the amount of this metal at our disposal was not large , we observed the bright blue line reversed .
This was most plainly visible when that portion of the vapour which was nearest to the sides of the tube was looked through .
We had great difficulty in preventing the oxidation of magnesium in the tube , and in using tubes wider than half-an-inch did not succeed in getting any reversal , but with half-inch tubes the b lines were clearly and sharply reversed , also some dark lines , not measured , were seen in the blue .
The sharpness of these lines depended on the regulation of the hydrogen current , by which we could cool the upper stratum of vapour at will .
A piece of metallic lithium was introduced , and gave no results .
Sodium was next added in the same tube , and this did not bring out the reversal of the lithium lines .
Similarly , chloride of lithium and metallic sodium , introduced together , gave no better results .
To a tube containing potassium vapour , some lithium chloride was added , but no lithium line appeared .
On adding metallic sodium to this atmosphere , and more lithium chloride , the bright-red lithium line appeared sharply reversed , and remained well defined for a long time .
It is worthy of observation that the lithium line was only reversed in a mixture of the vapours of potassium and sodium , and it seems highly probable that a very slightly volatile vapour may be diffused in an atmosphere of a more volatile metal , so as to secure a sufficient depth of vapour to produce a sensible absorption .
This would be analogous to well-known actions which take place in the attempt to separate organic bodies of very different boiling points by distillation , where a substance of high boiling point is always carried over , in considerable quantity , with the vapour of a body boiling at a much lower temperature .
It is a matter for future investigation how far chemical interactions taking place in a mixture of metallic vapours affect the volatility of a third body , and what relation , if any , this may have to 878 .
] on the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
135 ich phenomena as the increased fusibility of mixtures of salts of otassinm and sodium , and the well-known fluidity of the alloy of hose metals .
' , , As we have had occasion to use sodium and potassium m our tubes , re have had opportunities of observing the absorption spectra of these letals , and we find that there is a great deal yet to be observed in agard to these spectra .
Up to the present time , we have not observed ny of the appearances noted by Lockyer , " On a new class of absorp-ion phenomena , " in the Proceedings of the Royal Society , vol. xxii , ut we have repeatedly noted the phannelled-space spectrum of sodium [ escribed by Roscoe and Schuster in the same volume of the Proceed-ags .
We observed in our tubes no channelled-space absorption by otassium , but continuous absorption in the red , and one narrow bsorption band , with a wave-length of about 5,730 , not correspond-ng with any bright line of that metal .
With reference to the absorption spectrum of sodium.vapour , we nay remark that it is by no means so simple as has been generally .epresented .
The fact that the vapour of sodium in 'a flame shows \gt ; my the reversal of the D lines , while the vapour , volatilized in tubes , shows a channelled-space absorption corresponding to no known emission spectrum , appears to be part of a gradational variation of the ibsorption spectrum , which may be induced with perfect regularity .
Experiments with sodium , carried out in the way we have described , exhibit the following succession of appearances , as the amount of vapour is gradually diminished , commencing from the appearance when the tube is full of the vapour of sodium , part of it condensing in the cooler portion of the tube , and some being carried out by the slow current of hydrogen .
During this stage , although the lower part of the tube is at a white heat , we have always noticed , as long as the cool current of hydrogen displaced metallic vapour , that , on looking down the tube , it appeared perfectly dark .
The first appearance of luminosity is of a purple tint , and , with the spectroscope , appears as a faint blue band , commencing with a wave-length of about 4,500 , and fading away into the violet .
Next appears a narrow band in the : green , with a maximum of light , with a wave-length of about 5,420 , diminishing in brightness so rapidly on either side as to appear like a bright line .
This green band gradually widens , and is then seen to be divided by a dark band , with a wave-length of about 5,510 .
Red light next appears , and between the red and green light is an enormous ' extension of the D absorption line , while a still broader dark space intervenes between the green and the blue light .
The dark line in the green ( wave-length about 5,510 ) now becomes more sharply | defined .
This line appears to have been observed by Roscoe and f Schuster , and regarded by them as coinciding with the double sodium i line next in strength to the D lines , but it is considerably more refran- 136 On the Reversal of the Lines of Metallic Vapours .
[ Feb. 28 , gible than that double line .
In .the next stage , the channelled-space spectrum comes out in the dark space between the green and blue , and finally , in the red .
Gradually the light extends , the channels disappear , the D line absorption narrows , but still the dark line in the green is plainly discernible .
Lastly , there is only D lines absorption .
So far as we can judge , the blue and the streak of green light at first observed are due to luminosity of the vapour itself , where " it is somewhat cooled , the later stages being mixed phenomena of absorption and emission .
As the absorption line , with wave-length about 5,510 , which we may call for shortness the second absorption line of sodium , has not been distinctly recorded by other observers , we have endeavoured to trace it under somewhat different conditions from that of the vapour volatilized in white hot iron tubes .
This absorption-line is easily seen when a gas flame is observed through a horizontal glass tube , about three inches long , containing sodium volatilized in the middle of the , tube by the heat of a Bunsen 's burner , and equally well whether the tube contains hydrogen or nitrogen besides sodium .
We have also observed the same absorption line when a piece of commercial mag-/ nesium ribbon ( which always contains sodium ) is ignited in a hori-i zontal position , so that the metal melts and produces an elongated !
flame .
It is of some interest to note that absorption lines of about this !
wave-length , in the solar spectrum , are given by Kirchoff and Angstrom !
not corresponding with emission lines of known elementary bodies .
When potassium vapour is observed , whether in the iron tube or in a glass tube , an absorption line is seen , with a wave-length of aboutj 5,730 , which is more refrangible than the yellow double emission line of potassium , and does not correspond to any known bright line of | that metal .
We reserve , for a future communication , the discussion of the identity !
or non-identity of these absorption lines with lines in the solar spectrum and the inferences which may be drawn from such determination .
The method of observation we have described may be used to observe emission spectra as well as absorption spectra , for if the closed end of the tube be placed against the bars of the furnace so as to be relatively cooler than the middle of the tube , the light emitted by the vapours in the hottest part is more intense than that emitted by the bottom of the tube .
This succeeds admirably with sodium , but we have not specially observed it with other vapours .

