February 17 , 1853 .
J. P. GASSIOT , Esq. , V.P. , in the Chair .
A paper was read , entitled " On the Muscles which open the Eustachian Tube .
" By Joseph Toynbee , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 2 , 1853 .
The author commences by alluding to the opinion generally held by anatomists , viz. that the guttural orifice of the Eustachian tube is alwa*s open , and that the air in the tympanum is constantly'con .
tinuous with that in the cavity of the fauces .
An examination of the guttural orifice of the tube in man and other animals has led the author to conclude , that , except during muscular action , this orifice is always closed , and that the tympanum forms a cavity distinct and isolated from the outer air .
The muscles which open the Eustachian tube in man are the tensor and levator palati , and it is by their action during the process of deglutition that the tubes are ordinarily opened .
That the act of swallowing is the means whereby the Eustachian tubes are opened , is shown by some experiments of which the following may be cited .
If the mouth and nose be closed during the act of swallowing the saliva , a sensation of fulness or distension is produced in the ears ; this sensation arises from the air , which is slightly compressed in the fauces , passing into and distending the tympanic cavities : upon removing the hand from the nose , it will be observed that this feeling of pressure in the ears does not disappear , but it remains until the act of deglutition is again performed while the nose is not closed .
In this experiment the Eustachian tubes were opened during each act of deglutition ; during the first act , while they were open , air was forced into the cavity of the tympanum by the contraction of the muscles of the fauces and pharynx , and the guttural orifices of the tubes remained closed until the second act of swallowing , which opened the tubes and allowed the air to escape .
That the act of deglutition opens the Eustachian tubes , was inferred also from the custom usually adopted of swallowing while the descent in a diving-bell is performed ; by this act the condensed air is allowed to enter the tympanum , and the sensation of pain and pressure in the ears is removed or entirely avoided .
The author gives an account of the Eustachian tube and its muscles in Mammalia , Birds and Reptiles .
In some mamnlalia the muscles opening the tubes appertain , as in man , to the palate , in others this function is performed by the superior constrictor muscles of the pharynx .
In Birds it is shown that there is a single mem .
branous tube into which the two osseous tubes open ; this membranous tube is situated between and is intimately adherent to the inner surface of each pterygoid muscle , and by these muscles the tube is opened .
The conclusion to which the author arrives respecting the influence of the closed Eustachian tubes is , that the function of hearing is best carried on while the tympanum is a closed cavity , and that the analogy usually cited as existing between the ordinary musical instrument , the drum and the tympanum , to the effect , that in each it is requisite for the air within to communicate freely with the outer air , is not correct .
On the contrary , the author shows that no displacement of the air is requisite for the propagation of sonorous undulations , and that were the Eustachian tubes constantly open , these undulations would extend into the cavity of the fauces , there to be .
absorbed by the thick and soft mucous membrane , instead of being confined to the tympanic cavity , the walls of which are so peculiarly well adapted to the production of resonance , in order that they shall be concentrated upon the labyrinth .
In corroboration of the above views the author states , that in cases of deafness dependent simply upon an aperture in the membrana tympani , whereby the sonorous undulations are permitted to escape into the external meatus , the power of hearing has been greatly improved by the use of an artificial membrana tympani made of vulcanized india-rubber or gutta-percha , which is so applied as again to render the tympanum a closed cavity .

