420 Mr. A. Sanders , Anatomy of the Central [ Mar. 8 , III .
" Contributions to the Anatomy of the Central Nervous System in Yertebrated Animals .
Part I.\#151 ; Ichthyopsida .
Section I.\#151 ; Pisces .
Subsection III.\#151 ; Dipnoi .
On the Brain of the Ceratodus ForsteriC By Alfred Sanders , M.R.C.S. , F.L.S. Communicated by Dr. Gunther , F.R.S. Received February 23 , 1888 .
( Abstract .
) The brain of Ceratodus has the following general arrangement:\#151 ; The membrane which represents the pia mater is of great thickness and toughness ; there are two regions where a tela choroidea is developed : one where it covers in the fourth ventricle , and the other where it penetrates through the third ventricle and separates the lateral ventricles from each other .
The ventricles are all of large size , and the walls of the lateral ventricles are not completed by nervous tissue .
The thalamence-phalon and the mesencephalon are narrow , and the medulla oblongata is wide .
All the cranial nerves are present except the abducens and the hypoglossal .
There is a large communicating branch between the trifacial and the vagus .
The glossopharyngeal has no separate root , but is a branch of the vagus .
The ganglion of the vagus is not the termination of the main trunk , but is an offshoot from the ramus lateralis ; the ganglion gives off the branchial nerves and the ramus intestinalis ; the ramus lateralis passing on without entering it .
In the minute structure of the dorsal part of the cerebrum there are four layers to be seen , externally a layer of finely granular neuroglia , with slight indications of radial striation ; next a layer of Inrger sized cells ; then another layer of neuroglia with fibrillae having a tendency to a longitudinal direction ; finally , a layer of rounded cells closely crowded together on the internal surface .
The ventral part of the cerebrum has only two layers\#151 ; the external of neuroglia and the internal of rounded cells .
The olfactory lobes resemble the cerebrum in structure ; there is an internal layer of cells continuous with those of the cerebrum , and an external layer of glomeruli olfactorii , which seem as if they were the external layer of the cerebrum condensed ; between the two there is a layer of longitudinal fibres on which fusiform cells are developed .
The optic lobes also consist of four layers ; externally there is a layer of longitudinal fibrils derived from the optic tract ; then a layer of smoothly granular neuroglia ; then a layer of transverse fibrillas which collect into a commissure in the central line at the dorsal surface ; there are also fusiform and rounded cells sparingly scattered 1888 .
] Nei'vous System inV Animals .
421 through it ; the internal layer contains cells mostly rounded .
At the central line on the dorsal surface there is a ganglion of large cells resembling those of the optic lobe of the Plagiostomata .
The cerebellum is a mere bridge over the fourth ventricle , and its structure presents the usual number of layers ; internally there is the fibrous layer which ultimately goes to form the crura cerebelli ad medullam ; then the granular layer , the cells of which are of large size compared to those of the same layer in Teleostei and Plagiostomata ; then comes a layer of Purkinje cells , the form and number of processes of which are not uniform ; the external layer is the molecular , which consists of a coarsely granular network derived from the processes of the Purkinje cells , also a network of finer fibrils and many rounded cells .
In the spinal cord there are three columns of longitudinal fibres on each side in the white substance , viz. , the ventral columns between the two ventral roots of the spinal nerves , the lateral columns between the dorsal and ventral roots , and the dorsal columns between the two dorsal roots ; fibres of large size are scattered throughout the two former columns , but are collected principally in the ventral ; the dorsal columns consist entirely of fibres of minute size .
The principal feature in the white substance is a fibre of gigantic dimensions which is situated on the summit of the ventral columns \#151 ; one on each side ; it consists of a common medullary sheath enclosing , where the fibre is largest , about forty to fifty axis-cylinders ; these have the characteristics of the axis-cylinders of the ordinary fibres of the white substance , but have no separate medullary sheaths ; this fibre is traceable throughout the spinal cord ; commencing opposite the posterior end of the abdomen , it extends forward to a short distance behind the exit of the facial nerve ; it varies in size and becomes of the greatest diameter near the posterior end of the medulla oblongata ; its axes escape through the medullary sheath and join the longitudinal fibres of the ventral columns ; near its anterior termination all the axes have escaped except one ; at this point it bears a great resemblance to Mauthner 's fibre in the Teleostei .
This remaining fibre decussates with that of the other side a short distance behind the exit of the facial nerve and joins the root of that nerve .
In the grey substance of the spinal cord there are two series of ganglia\#151 ; one in the ventral horn , which consists of multipolar cells often of-very large size ; they send processes into the ventral and lateral columns which often become the smaller-sized longitudinal fibres .
The cells of the other series are of smaller size and are situated in the substantia gelatinosa centralis ; they are smooth in outhne and give off one or two processes ; they probably have to do with the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves .
Cells also of this kind VOL. xliii , 0 422 Central Nervous System inVertebrated .
[ Mar. 8 , occur at other places as in the fibrse rectas , and in the field of the ventral columns .
The transverse commissures are\#151 ; one in the spinal cord which passes through the substantia gelatinosa centralis over the central canal ; another occurs on the ventral side of the anterior part of the medulla oblongata and corresponds to the commissura ansulata of Teleostei ; it is connected with the commissure in the dorsal part of the optic lobes .
Two other commissures are present corresponding respectively to the anterior and posterior commissures of the third ventriole of Mammalia .
There is no chiasma of the optic nerve visible externally ; what there is of it is situated in the substance of the thalamencephalon .
The anterior root of the fifth nerve arises from a ganglion occupying a broad swelling in the lateral part of the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle .
The posterior root arises from the summit of the restiform bodies .
The facial passes backwards in a small tubercle at the junction of the floor of the fourth ventricle with the restiform bodies .
The acustieus arises from a bundle of fibres which are situated on the summits of the ventral columns , and appears to be a continuation forward of that part of the multiaxial fibre which has not decussated .
The vagus has five roots ; they pass backward and enter in succession the same tubercle as , and to the outside of , the facial nerve ; the three posterior roots are double , so that the vagus is equivalent to eight nerves , and consists entirely of dorsal roots .
Two nerves are given off from the ventral side of the medulla oblongata , each of which has two roots ; they do not join the vagus but pass back some distance in the vertebral canal and emerge on a level with the exit of the dorsal roots of the spinal nerves .
The second and third spinal nerves supply the pectoral fin and pursue the course usually followed by the hypoglossal when that nerve is present in Teleostei .
The fibres of the ventral roots of the spinal nerves enter in a direction upward and forward toward the inner edge of the multiaxial fibre , between it and the central canal , and then passing over the dorsal edge of the same , are either lost in the grey substance of the ventral horn , join a process of one of the multipolar cells , or become one of the longitudinal fibres of the ventral column .
The brain of Ceratodus presents an embryonic condition in three respects , viz. , first in the extreme size of the ventricles and in the tenuity of the substance of their walls ; second , in the alternating origins of the dorsal and ventral roots ; third , in the fact that the origins of the dorsal roots are close to the central line .
Compared to Protopterus it differs in the shape and the imperfection of the cerebral lobes , and in the fact of its having a well-devePresents .
1888 .
] loped rhinenceplialon , but it agrees in the narrowness of the thala-mencephalon and mesencephalon and in the breadth of the medulla oblongata , as also in the rudimentary character of the cerebellum .
Ceratodmagrees also with the Ganoids in the comparative narrowness of the mesencephalon and in the proportions of the cerebellum .
With the Plagiostomata it agrees in the structure of the optic lobes , both orders presenting a ganglion of large cells in the dorsal part .
With the Teleostei it agrees in the multiaxial fibres which , a short distance anterior to its termination , resemble the Mauthner 's fibres , also in the position and the fact of their decussation .
With Petromyzon it agrees in the structure of the tela choroidea which covers the fourth ventricle .
Presents , March 8 , 1888 .
Transactions .
Calcutta:\#151 ; Indian Museum .
A Catalogue of the Moths of India by B. C. Cotes and Col " .
C. Swinhoe .
Part 2 .
8vo .
Calcutta 1887 .
The Trustees .
Cambridge:\#151 ; Philosophical Society .
Proceedings .
Yol .
II .
Part3 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1888 .
The Society .
Cambridge , Mass .
:\#151 ; Harvard University .
Bulletin .
Ho. 39 .
8vo .
1888 ; Annual Report , Harvard College .
1886-87 .
8vo .
Cambridge 1888 .
The University .
Charleston:\#151 ; Elliott Society of-Science and Art .
Proceedings .
August 26 , 1886 , to July 28 , 1887 .
8vo .
[ Charleston .
] The Society Essex Naturalists ' Field Club:\#151 ; The Essex Naturalist .
1888 .
No !
1 and 2 .
8vo .
Buckhurst Hill 1888 .
The Club .
London:\#151 ; Entomological Society .
Transactions .
1887 .
Part 5 , 8vo .
London 1888 .
The Society .
Royal Institute of British Architects .
Journal of Proceedings .
Vol. IY .
No. 9 .
4to .
London1888 .
The Institute .
Marlborough:\#151 ; Marlborough College Natural History Society .
Report .
No. 36 .
8vo .
Marlborough 1888 .
The College .
Paris:\#151 ; Ecole Normale Superieure .
Annals .
Tome Y. Nos. 1-2 .
4to .
Paris 1888 .
The School .
Societe de Geography .
Bulletin .
Tome YIII .
Trim .
4 .
8vo . .
Paris1887 .
The Society .
Rome:\#151 ; Real Accademia dei Lincei .
Annuario .
1888 .
12mo .
0 -Roma .
The Academy , bt .
Petersburg:\#151 ; ComiteGeologique .
Bulletin .
( Russian .
) Tome VI .
No. 1 .
8vo .
St. Petersburg 1887 .
The Comite .
Vienna:\#151 ; K.Akademie derWissenschaften .
Anzeiger .
Jahrg .
1888 .
Nr .
1-3 .
8vo .
Wien .
The Academy .
2 h 2

