]\gt ; Some on the Properties of electrics .
distorting the frequency curve of the original distribution , the distortion consisting in raising each ordinate to the power It seems probable that the values and B2\mdash ; which are given by ( 45 ) and ( 46 ) for an infinite population admit of a similar interpretation .
In fact ( 52 ) , ( 53 ) , and ( 54 ) show that this is the case for even , when the original distribution is normal , but the general case appears at present to be intractable .
Some Experiments on the Properties of Dielectr.ics .
By SPENCER W. RICHARDSON , ( Camb .
) , D.Sc .
( Lond. ) , formerly Principal of , and Professor of Physics at , the University , Southampton .
( Communicated by Sir Joseph J. Thomson , O.M. , F.R.S. Received July 19 , 1915 .
Introdnction.\mdash ; The phenomenon of the residual discharge has attracted the attention of many eminent physicists , and a large number of papers on this subject have been published .
In 1854 Kohlrausch* showed that the instantaneous discharge apparently independent of the residual discharge and that , for a given jar left to self for a given time after charging , the residual discharge was proportional to the initial potential ; and in 1873 Maxwell put forward the view that the existence of the residual discharge could be explained by the assumption that it was due to the heterogeneity of the medium exhibiting it .
In 1881 and asserted that Iceland Spar did not exhibit the phenonlenon of the residual discharge , and claimed that its absence was a confirmation of Maxwell 's view .
I , however , having performed a considerable number of experiments on Iceland Spar , have found evidence of the phenomenon in this case .
The specimen I have studied was a carefully polished slice\mdash ; cut parallel to a cleavage \mdash ; in which no flaw of any kind could be detected by eye .
This specimen was silvered on both surfaces and round the edge\mdash ; a gap being left between the silvered part of each surface and the edge for insulation see .
The charge , as it appeared on one of the surfaces , was conducted away to a subsidiary condenser of much greater capacity than the specimen , and the 'Poggendorff 's Annalen , ' 1854 .
'Treatise , ' vol. 1 , 1873 .
'Phil .
Mag 1881 .
Dr. S. W. Richardson .
Some Experiments difference of potential between this surface and the permanent earth in no case exceeded of a volt .
The whole apparatus , including the specimen and the keys , etc. , was placed in a metal-lined , earth-connected case , containing calcium chloride , and was maintained at a constant temperature night and day .
It was anticipated that in the above conditions any error due to surface conductivity would be small .
That the charge which escaped from the specimen ( after it had been charged and instantaneously discharged ) , in any given case , may be considered to be directly proportional to the area of the conducting surface and inversely proportional to the thickness of the specimen can be seen from the following Table :\mdash ; The results given in the Table were obtained as follows .
One surface of the specimen was connected to the earth .
The other surface was maintained at a voltage for 2 minutes .
It was then connected to the earth , and the quantity that subsequently escaped from the specimen during the first and second succeeding minutes was measured .
The values of given in Column A were obtained on November 14 , 1913 .
The gap ( by which is meant the space required for insulation ) between the permanent earth and the silvered surface through which the charge escaped was cm .
, the area of the surface sq .
cm .
, and the thickness of the specimen cm .
The values given in Column were obtained on March 9 , 1914 .
The specimen had been cleaned and re-silvered .
The gap measured cm .
, but the area and thickness were the same as in the previous case .
The values given in Column were obtained on December 24 , 1914 .
The on the Properties of Dielectrics .
specimen had been re-cut , re-polished , and re-silvered .
The gap now measured 0.3 cm .
, the area sq .
cm .
and the thickness cm .
The values given in Column were obtained by multiplying the values in Column by .
An extensive series of experiments on the apparent conductivity of quartz and other crystals has been performed ) Curi has shown , inter that a specimen of quartz cut perpendicular to the optical axis behaves vety differently from one cut parallel to i6 .
He has also suggested that an electromotive force of polarisation may be set up in the specimen when the external field is applied .
I propose , in a subsequent paper , to give an account of some measurements of this electromotive force of polarisation made by me .
NOTE : has shown that the apparent specific inductive capacity of crystallised sulphur has different values in diffel'ent directions in the crystals .
I have performed a great many experiments on a specimen of quartz , cut perpendicular to the optical axis , and silvered in the same way as the specimen of Iceland spar .
The results of some of these experiments are given below .
I have also performed some experiments on a specimen of rock salt , cut parallel to a cleavage plane .
This specimen , being soluble in water , could not be silvered , but it was found that if tin foil , moistened with distilled water , wa , pressed firmly on the surfaces and edge it adhered to the specimen when dry .
The specimen was set up in an air-tight metal box , containing phosphorus pentoxide , which was kept closed for about six weeks before , and during , the experiments .
Boltzmann ( loc. cit , and other observers , have that the apparent specific inductive capacity of a dielectric depends upon the time of charging , or , in the case of the alternating current method , .upon the frequency , e.g. , J. J. ThomsonS has found for glass\mdash ; Frequency , , 100 per , 9 to 11 , per sec. , where is the apparent specific inductive capacity .
The experiments performed by me ( commenced in Southampton in 1906 'Annales de Chimie , ' 1889 .
'Vienna K. Akad .
Sitzungsber 1872 , 1873 , 1874 .
'Phil .
Trans 1876 , ; 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1876 , 1897 .
S 'Roy .
Soc. Proc 1889 .
I desire to place on record my indebtedness to Prof. E. L. Watkin , of University College , Southampton , who co-operated with me in the earher experiments performed at Southampton .
44 Dr. S. W. Richardson .
Some Experiments have been continued in the Davy Faraday Laboratory from October , 1912 , up to the present time .
The conclusions arrived at by me include the ollowing : 1 .
When a dielectric is subjected to an electromotive difference of potential it becomes polarised .
If the difference of potential is suddenly removed the polarieation dies rapidly at first , but more slowly afterwards .
It is the decay of this polarisation that gives rise to the so-called and of a condenser .
2 .
Let one surface of a dielectric ( in the form of a plate or cylinder , etc. , and originally unpolarised ) be permanently connected to the earth and the other surface be maintained at a potential for a time T. If this second surface is now connected to the earth , after a very short time , , both surfaces are at zero potential and the charge of electricity that has been set free may be represented by where is a constant depending on the size and arrangement of the surfaces , and is , in general , sensibly independent of both and T. 3 .
There is a charge remaining in the dielectric , which slowly dies away , and this charge can at any time , , from the commencement of the discharge , be represented by In this paper is called the Specific Inductive Capacity , and the Specific Inductive Residual of the dielectric , and the total initial charge in the dielectric is represented by 4 .
If the dielectric is charged for any given time diminishes according to the law , ( since is small compared with t ) and In these equations are constants .
This , however , is only true for a given time of charging .
A careful examination of the of a specimen of , cut perpendicular to the optical axis , and a specimen of Iceland spar , cut ] to a cleavage plane , has shown that in the case of.each of these specimens , vary continuously with the time of charging , but that A is proportional to and , therefore , on the Properties of Dielectrics .
where is a constant independent of the time of charging .
In general , within the limits of experimental error , it is possible to write After the discha1ge has taken place for some time this equation reduces to all the above conclusions it is assumed that the temperature of the speoimen is maintained constant .
Jfethod.\mdash ; The experimental results were obtained in the following way : Both surfaces of the specimen to be examined were connected to the earth ( see fig. 2 ) and the specimen was intained at a constant temperature for some days .
One surface was then connected to the main battery by operating the key and the specimen was charged for a given time .
This surface was them reconnected to the earth .
At a subsequent time , , the other surface ( and the subsidiary condenser and one pair of quadrants of the electrometer to which it is attached ) was qconnected from the earth by operating the key .
At a later time , the specimen was separated from the subsidiary condenser and the electrometer by operating the key , and one minute afterwards the deflection of the line of light on the electrometer was observed and a correction for " " leak\ldquo ; was made .
After a sufficient time had elapsed to allow all trace of the previous charging of the dielectric to disappear , the main battery was reversed and the Dr. S. W. Richardson .
Some Experiments experiment was repeated .
The mean of the two deflections is represented below by .
The electrometer was then standardised .
During the time the charge that escaped from the specimen accumulated mainly in the subsidiary condenser , whose capacity is large compared with the other capacities concerned , and if represents the capacity of the subsidiary condenser , , , , , standardising potential , the deflection of the line of light when one pair of quadrants is raised to the standardising potential , the other pair being to earth , the charge that has escaped from the specimen can be calculated from the relation We also have , if represents the electromotive force of the main battery , , , , , area of the conducting surface of the specimen connected to the electrometer for the time , , , , , thickness of the specimen , Finally we get In the above equations it is assumed that the capacity of the subsidiary condenser is sufficiently great to allow the difference of potential set up by the accumulated charge to be neglected in comparison with the electromotive force of polarisation of the dielectric , and that may be taken to represent approximately the charge that would have escaped from the specimen in the time if both surfaces had been permanently connected to the earth .
The capacities of the subsidiary condensers used were carefully determined in conditions approximating to those that obtained in the actual experiments one minute after charging .
Their values were : Microfarad .
Microfarad .
No. I No. No. II 00274 No. 0:00182 No. No. VII No. \mdash ; The specimen Sp , Dolezalek electrometer , subsidiary condensers , etc. , were all contained in a wooden case ( see fig. 3 ) , lined Dr. S. W. Richardson .
Some xperiments with felt and earth-connected 1netal , and maintained night and day at a constant temperature by means of the following automatic arrangement ( see fig. 4 ) .
A battery was connected in series with an adjustable resistance ( outside the case ) , and two heating resistances , ( inside the case ) , through a mercury contact When the temperature of the case reached a certain value , the mercury in a long vertical tube ( inside the case ) made contact with a platinum po nt thus completing a subsidiary circuit and a small electromagnet As soon as this took place the mercury contact was broken and the heating current was reduced owing to the inclusion of the adjustable esistance in the hearing circuit .
The temperature of the case then fell until the mercury in the tube sepal.ated from the platinum point .
This caused the exclusion of the resistance , and the ture of the case rose .
It was thus found possible to maintain the temperature of the case constant to within 0 .
C. Three keys , , of the type shown in 5 ; were contained in a metal-lined , earth-connected box , attached to the case A. Leads passed from these keys through holes into the case A. The key shown in the consisted of an ebonitc strip , to the extremities of which two metal points ( joined by a wire ) were attached .
The strip could be turned round a horizontal axis by exciting a small electromagnet .
One of the keys was used for connecting one surface of the specimen to the battery or to the earth , one for connecting the other surface to the electrometer ( and attached subsidiary condenser ) or to the earth , and one for and disconnecting the electrometer ( and attached subsidiary condenser ) and the earth .
on the Properties of Dielectrics .
During an experiment the box was kept closed .
The bserver excited the electromagnets , and thus produced the necessary nges in the positions of the ebonite strips , by oompleting the exciting circuits .
This was effected by means of the sliders see , which could be moved separately or moved clamped together .
Efperime tal fiesults.\mdash ; The data given below relate to expel.iments performed at the following temperatures:\mdash ; Tenlperature .
I. Quartz : specimen cut perpendicular to the optical C. II .
Iceland Spar : specimen cut parallel to a cleavage plane C. .
Rock Salt : specimen cut to a ] plane C. The following values have been obtained for In the-equation the values have been calculated for I. Quartz II .
eland Spar III .
Bock Salt A series of ements of , under varying conditions as to , etc. , have been made , and from these the following data have been compiled .
In the first column of the Tables are shown times measured from the instant at which both surfaces of specimen were brought into contact with the earth , and in the columns the corresponding values of for different times of chargiIJg are given , the last value in each column being computed and not derived from an experiment .
From these data the curves plotted as figs. 6-9 ( Quartz ) , figs. 12-14 ( Iceland Spar ) and fig. 17 ( Rock Salt ) were obtained .
Above the curves the logarithms , to the base 10 , of the various values of VOL. XCIL\mdash ; A. Dr. S. W. Richardson .
Some III .
Rock Salt .
Curves connecting the values of and the times of are shown I. Quartz II .
Iceland Spar 16 .
III .
Rock Salt , , 19 .
If the curves shown as figs. 6-9 ( Quartz ) , and 12-14 ( Iceland Spar ) are examined analytically it will be found that can be represented imately by , and that vary continuously with the time of charging .
A curve connecting and the time of , or and the time of charging , is of the same general type as th connecting and the time of .
As , however , the relation is only approxintely true , definite values have not been to Addendum.\mdash ; The following results were obtained from experiments on a large oolass test-tube , a sheet of paraffin and an ebonite tube : On Waves .
In each case the time of was two minutes .
The results are given in terms of the total charge in electromagnetic units contained in the specimen when the original difference of potential between the surfaces was unity .
In the first column times measured from the instant at which both surfaces are connected to the earth are given .
These results are plotted as figs. 20-22 .
For these spec imens the values of are ( after two minutes charging ) Glass ( test-tube ) .
Paraffin .
Ebonite .
The author 's thanks are due to the Managers of the Royal Institution for placing the resources of the Davy Faraday Laboratory at his disposal , and to the Director , Prof. Sir James Dewar , for much helpful kindness and consideration .
On Water Waves by a Local on or beneath the By K. TERAZAWA , Ri-Gakushi in the Imperial University of Tokyo .
( Communicated by Sir Joseph Larmor , F.R.S. Received June 28 , 1915 .
) The classical problem of waves produced in deep-sea water by a local disturbance of the free surface has been investigated by Prof. H. Lamb* in a very able manner .
He completed the theory of wave propagation in one dimension and in two horizontal dimensions when the initial disturbance is concentrated in the immediate neighbourhood of a line or a point , assuming that Fourier 's double integral theorem can be applied in ) a case .
In this paper I venture to discuss the same problem , especially the oscillations at the centre of the disturbance , following Prof. Lamb 's method , in cases where the initial disturbance is spread over a certain ext , ent of the free surface ; and , as an application of the general solution , I propose to treat the case in which the initial disturbing source is situated at a finite depth from the free surface , where the surface wave is produced by an explosion like that of a mine under water .
S1 .
Supposing the water to extend to infinity , horizontally and downwards , and taking the axes of and on the undisturbed free surface and that of ' Lond. Math. Soc. Proc vol. 2 ( 2 ) , p. 371 ( 1904 ) , or ' Hydrodynamics , ' third edition , SS236-239 , 251-262 .
VOL. XCIL\mdash ; A.

