Effect of Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
329 10 .
During tetanisation of moderate strength and of whatever direction the normal current becomes positive ( or less negative ) .
This positive change gradually subsides .
11 .
Strong single induction shocks of whatever direction arouse prolonged positive after-effects , that gradually subside .
12 .
Single condenser discharges ( 2 to 10 M.F. , 1 to 7 volts ) , of whatever direction , arouse prolonged positive after-effects .
13 .
In consequence of gentle massage of the eyeball , the normal current becomes strongly positive ( or less negative ) .
This positive change gradually subsides .
14 .
In consequence of gentle massage of the eyeball , the positive response of the 1st stage gives place to a negative response ( vide supra , , 5 ) .
15 .
Fatigue\#151 ; i.e. , diminution of response by reason of previous activity\#151 ; is less pronounced in the case of the retina than in that of muscle .
It is manifested in nearly the same degree to stimulation by light , and to stimulation by tetanising currents .
16 .
The positive response to light ( 2 ) , the positive effect of tetanisation ( 10 ) , and the positive after-effect of condenser discharges ( 13 ) are suppressed by anaesthetics ( ether and chloroform ) and by rise of temperature ( to 40\#151 ; 45 ' ) .
The suppression may be permanent or temporary .
An anaesthetised like a dead eyeball tested by currents , as in 11 and 12 , manifests only polarisation currents negative in direction to the exciting currents .
Tetanisation , as in 10 , gives only polarisation effect in the direction of the break shocks negative to the direction of the make shocks .
IV .
Conclusions .
" Observations on the Effect of Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
" By J. Bretland Farmer , M.A. , Eoyal College of Science , London .
' Communicated by Dr. H. T. Brown , F.E.S. Deceived March 21 , \#151 ; Read April 5 , 1900 .
It has been known for some time that it is possible , under certain circumstances , to expose seeds to the influence of high temperatures without thereby necessarily destroying their power to germinate .
Some experiments in this direction were conducted at the Royal Gardens , Kew , some years ago by Dr. Morris , but the results , although of much interest , do not appear to have been published .
However , the seeds were exposed to the action of boiling water , and even to a higher temperature in an oven , without losing their ability to germinate when the ordeal was over .
It has been noticed , in heating seeds in water , that if the seed-coat 330 Mr. J. Bretland Farmer .
On Effect of through any cause becomes ruptured , or if it softens and swells , the seeds which are thus affected are incapable of manifesting any further evidence of vitality .
It appears to me that a fair inference to be drawn from these facts is that the admission of water to the living cells is a potent factor in bringing about their death .
Jodin* has recently communicated some facts which point to the same conclusion .
He exposed seeds of pea and cress to a temperature of 98 ' 0 .
, and found that unless great care had been previously exercised to ensure the dryness of the seeds , they were all killed .
When they had been previously dried he succeeded in subsequently germinating 30 per cent , of the peas and 60 per cent , of the cress seeds .
Perhaps the disproportion in favour of the latter may , at least in part , be ascribed to their small size , and consequently to the less difficulty in sufficiently drying the seeds .
It would seem to follow from what has been said that the instability of the complex molecular structure of which living organisms are made up , may be lessened by appropriate desiccation , but the substances concerned are too complex to render themselves readily'accessible to inquiry .
It appeared , however , that it might be worth while to study the effects of desiccation on albumin from this point of view .
Albumin is not only a highly complex proteid , and perhaps in some respects akin to protoplasm itself , but it is one which gives tolerably definite heat reactions .
It is in connection with the last-mentioned point that the new facts in this paper are specially concerned .
It is of course known that albumin in a watery solution is readily coagulated on heating to a certain temperature .
This temperature , however , is not necessarily constant for even one type of albumin , doubtless owing to the readiness with which it undergoes change .
Thus albumin obtained from different hens ' eggs will often be found to coagulate at different temperatures , and the differences appear , in part at any rate , to be connected with the age of the egg .
I have found in the case of freshly-laid eggs , that the characteristic opalescence which marks the early stages of coagulation may set in as low as 60 ' C. , the clotted coagulum being fully formed at 64 ' C. The heat was applied by means of a large water-bath , so as to ensure its being as uniform as possible .
Another sample of albumin from a different egg tried simultaneously and under the same conditions , only exhibited opalescence at 65'6 ' C. , and coagulated completely at 68 ' C. The albumin on which most of my experiments were made , was obtained from Merck , of Darmstadt , and was sent as dried egg-albumin .
It readily dissolved in water , with the exception of a little flaky insoluble portion , which was filtered off .
The solution had a low coagulation-point , the opalescence appearing at 60 ' C. , and the clot at 62 ' C. # ' Comptes Rendus , ' 1899 .
Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
331 -to 63 ' C.* Filtering off the clot and testing the filtrate at higher temperatures yielded no further coagulation .
If a sample of this ( dry ) albumin be placed in a flask , the mouth of which is furnished with a cork and attached to a set of drying tubes , and the temperature of the flask raised to 80 ' C. , a short exposure , of at any rate two to three hours , is enough to completely alter the albumin .
The object of the drying tubes is to .prevent any more moisture than is already present in its substance reaching the albumin from the steam or from any other source .
Thus heated , the albumin is found to have become insoluble in water , and in fact to have undergone a change corresponding to coagulation .
If , however , the albumin be carefully dried before being subjected to these conditions , the results are quite different .
For the present purpose it was found to be sufficient to expose a thin layer of albumin in a glass dish to a temperature of 52\#151 ; 55 ' C. in an incubator .
This ensures a very thorough desiccation .
The process may be hastened by introducing a vessel of sulphuric acid , though this precaution was not found to be necessary .
Thus dried , the albumin loses its shellac or glue-like appearance , and easily crumbles to very small particles .
On comparing the solubility and coagulability of this specially dried material with the ordinary sample , no difference could be detected in any respect .
Numerous experiments were made with this dried material , of which the following may be taken as typical .
It may be added that the results throughout were almost surprisingly uniform in the different experiments made .
A sample of the specially dried albumin was introduced in a flask so as to form a thin layer over the bottom .
The flask was connected with drying tubes filled with calcium chloride , and with phosphorus pentoxide .
The flask was warmed and cooled rapidly several times , in order to cause the contained air to circulate through the drying tubes .
The temperature of the flask was then raised in a brine bath to 102 ' C. , and kept at this temperature during the whole of one day ( six hours ) .
Next day , and without opening or disturbing the apparatus , the temperature was again raised to 107 ' C. , and finally to 110 ' C. It was maintained between these limits for seven hours ; thus the contents of the flask had been for thirteen hours exposed to a temperature of considerably over 100 ' C. On testing the albumin it was found to be soluble in water , and in no way , as far as could be observed , did it differ from the unheated material .
On gradually warming the solution side by side with a # It is of course known that several factors affect the coagulation point .
The figures given represent those obtained in my experiments , which were all kept as uniform as possible so as to eliminate the factor of variability .
332 Mr. J. Bretland Farmer .
On Effect of similar solution of the unheated albumin , both became opalescent at a temperature of 60 ' C. , and both were completely coagulated at 62 ' C It thus appears that , if precautions are taken to ensure appropriate desiccation , it is possible to heat albumin for , at any rate , thirteen hours to a temperature varying between 102\#151 ; 110 ' C. without producing any obvious change in its ultimate molecular ( or micellar V ) structure .
It made no difference to the result whether the heat was gradually or rapidly applied .
Thus , in one experiment , the temperature was raised from 50 ' C. to 103 ' C. in fifteen minutes , and in other examples the flask was withdrawn from the hot bath , cooled , and suddenly reimmersed .
How much higher the temperature could be raised without producing an obvious effect , I am not prepared to say ; nor did I investigate the action ( if any ) which might possibly be produced by a much longer exposure to heat within the limits already mentioned .
This formed no part of my object , which was primarily to try to get a point of comparison between the complex seed and the simpler but still very complex proteid .
Other experiments were made in order to test the sensitiveness of the albumin to small quantities of moisture .
For this purpose , two flasks attached to drying tubes were used , one of them serving as a control experiment , and remaining unopened until the end .
The other was opened three times , and a small sample taken out each time .
By this means the ordinary air of the room obtained complete access to the albumin .
The duration of the experiment was ten hours .
The first sample was withdrawn after the flasks had been heated to 102 ' C. for three hours ; it dissolved and coagulated normally .
A second sample was withdrawn after three hours more , and it was found that whilst it dissolved and became opalescent on heating to 60 ' C. , the coagulation change did not at once set in , but the opalescent solution became more milky and of a deeper fog-yellow by transmitted light , finally coagulating at about 68 ' C. A third sample taken out at the close of the experiment ( i.e. , four hours after the last opening of the flask ) also dissolved , became slightly opalescent at about 64 ' C. , but did not coagulate even at 90 ' C. , although the opalescent milkiness became very pronounced .
Viewed by transmitted light , the solution was translueently yellow .
Even boiling failed to produce anything which could be fairly termed a coagulum .
It appeared probable that the admission of watery vapour had permitted the inception of the changes which normally , at high temperatures , result in coagulation ; but in this case they were arrested , some precursor of alkali-albumin being probably produced , as is often the case on slowly coagulating albumin solutions .
Under these circumstances , however , the entire mass of the albumin had undergone this change .
This supposition turned out to be correct , for the addition of a trace of acetic acid at once caused the solution to Desiccation of Albumin upon its Coagulability .
333 be susceptible to coagulation at about 60\#151 ; 62 ' C.* Hence it is fair to infer that although the slight amount of moisture introduced during the opening of the tube did not suffice to enable complete coagulation to occur , it did permit the early changes to begin , and to slowly , and in a modified way , to affect the entire mass .
This experiment was repeated several times , and always with the same result .
It seems difficult , in the light of the foregoing observations , to resist the inference that in the complete absence of moisture albumin may be reduced to a state of relative molecular ( or micellar ) immobility ; the rearrangements which , in the presence of water and at a sufficiently high temperature , normally take place in its ultimate structure being held in abeyance during the suspension of the essential condition of the presence of sufficient moisure .
The substance is brought , so to\gt ; speak , into a static condition ; chemical or physico-chemical change is inhibited , just as is an interaction between phosphorus and oxygen when conditions of complete dryness obtain .
It is tempting to-extend these considerations to the case of seeds and spores , .
, of certain bacteria , and to ask whether similar conclusions may not be fairly assumed to obtain there , for it may well be a fact that the protoplasm , like the albumin , which is at any rate akin to it , when sufficiently desiccated withstands conditions which otherwise would certainly promote chemical disintegration .
They , too , appear to be reduced to a ** static " condition by drying , and the researches of Romanesf indicated no measurable chemical change as proceeding in them under these circumstances ; and , again , the investigations of Brown and Escombe , J and of Sir W. Thiselton-Dyer , S have alsn rendered it difficult to believe , when subjected to the other end of the scale of temperature , that any metabolism can really be proceeding .
In these cases the molecular machinery of life is all present and intact , but the manifestation of vitality , as measured by chemical movement and by the change in the condition of energy , is absent .
But such a state differs widely from death , seeing that when the conditions favourable to the continuous progress of those reactions which are associated with vitality are restored , the organism proceeds to work in the normal manner once more .
Similarly the albumin heated in the desiccated form retains , instead of changing , that particular molecular condition which enables it , on restoring the essential conditions of moisture , tO ' coagulate in a normal fashion when heated to a suitable degree of temperature .
* A solution of albumen treated with a very small quantity of a dilute solution of potash undergoes a similar change .
The substance formed is not true alkali* albumen , since no precipitate is produced on neutralising , and a coagulum on .
heating this neutralised solution .
t * Proc. Boy .
Soc. , ' vol. 57 .
X Ibid. , vol. 62 .
S Ibid. , vol. 65 .

