230 The Number of fi-Particles Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
By H. G. J. Moseley , B.A. , Assistant Lecturer and Demonstrator , University of Manchester .
( Communicated by Prof. E. Rutherford , F.R.S. Received May 8 , \#151 ; Read June 13 , 1912 .
) CONTENTS .
PAGE 1 .
Introduction ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
230 2 .
Methods of Measurement ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
232 3 .
Comparison of the Two Methods ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
235 4 .
Absorption of the / 3-Radiation from Active Deposit of Radium ... ... ... 235 5 .
Comparison of the Radiation from Radium B and Radium C ... ... ... ... 239 6 .
Number of j3-Particles Emitted by Radium B and by Radium C ... ... . .
241 7 .
Number of / 3-Particles from Radium E ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
243 8 .
Ionising Power of a / 3-Particle ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .
245 9 .
Secondary / 3-Radiation from y-Rays ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
249 10 .
Secondary and d-Rays ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
250 11 .
Summary of Results ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
254 1 .
Introduction .
The recent researches of Baeyer , Hahn , and Meitner* have shown that the / 3-radiation from a substance can usually be resolved by a magnetic field into a number of distinct groups of approximately homogeneous rays .
It has been shown by Danyszf that more than 23 such groups are present in the radiation from radium B and radium C. From our knowledge of the approximate value of the charge carried by the / 3-partides from radium it is clear that each atom in disintegrating cannot emit one / 3-particle of each kind , and it is therefore safe to conclude either that different atoms of the same substance give rise to different radiations , the process of disintegrating being different in each case , or J that the radiation which results from the disintegration is originally uniform but becomes modified by its passage through the atom .
It is in this connection of importance to know the average number of particles emitted by an atom .
If this proves to be an integer , the process of disintegration is probably simpler than it appears at first sight .
At the suggestion of Prof. Rutherford , a careful investigation was * Baeyer , Hahn , and Meitner , 'Phys .
Zeit./ 1911 , vol. 12 , pp. 273 and 1099 .
t Danysz , 'Le Radium , ' 1912 , vol. 9 , p. 1 .
% Rutherford , 'Proc .
Manchester Lit. Phil. Soc./ Feb. 6 , 1912 ; 'Nature/ vol. 88 , p. 605 Feb. 29 , 1912 .
ft-Particles Emitted in Transformation of Radium .
231 undertaken to determine the number of / 3-particles emitted by radium C. This work has included a study of the best methods of measuring accurately the number of / 3-particles from an atom , with the intention of subsequently applying these methods to as many cases as possible .
It has been found that , on an average , an atom of radium B or radium C emits slightly more than one / 3-particle , while radium E appears to emit on an average little more than one-half a / 3-particle .
The only substance for which this number had hitherto been determined is radium C. The first determination , by Wien* * * S gave only approximate results ; the second , by Rutherford , f needed correction by a somewhat uncertain factor , owing to the reflection of some of the rays from the metal cylinder on which the active material was deposited ; the third , by Makower , J eliminated the error due to reflection , and gave one , or possibly two , as the number of / 3-particles emitted .
The chief sources of uncertainty in this case were , firstly , the correction made for the radiation from radium B ; and , secondly , the correction for the absorption of the rays by the tube in which the active material was contained .
In the present work a direct comparison of the radiations from radium B and radium C avoided the first source of uncertainty .
The second was minimised by using as an active source radium emanation contained in a glass tube sufficiently thin to allow the passage of the a-particles , and then covering with just enough material to stop these particles ; for the a-particles in their passage through matter produce 8-particles in numbers sufficient to render measurements of the charge carried by the / 3-rays impossible .
A careful study has been made of the absorption of the / 3-radiation , and it is believed that in the case of radium C no serious error is introduced by the inevitable extrapolation .
These measurements were complicated by the fact that a secondary radiation is emitted by surfaces traversed by / 3-rays .
This radiation , which has not been observed by previous investigators , was studied in some detail , and a comparison of its properties with those of the 8-rays is given at the end of this paper .
From the results of Geiger and KovarikS on the ionisation produced by the / 3-radiation from various atoms , it would be possible to determine the number of particles emitted by each atom but for our lack of precise knowledge of the ionising power of a / 3-particle .
For this reason , a determination has been made of the number of ions produced per centimetre of air by / 3-particles of different penetrating powers .
With the help of these * Wien , 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' 1903 , vol. 4 , p. 624 .
t Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1905 , vol. 10 , p. 193 .
J Makower , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1909 , vol. 17 , p. 171 .
S Geiger and Kovarik , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 604 .
R 2 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of fi-Particles [ May 8 , data an estimate has been formed of the number of / 3-particles emitted by each atom of the substances examined by these authors .
A quantitative examination of the secondary / 3-radiation emerging from a sheet of material traversed by 7-rays has led to an estimate of the energy contained in the 7-radiation from radium C. 2 .
Methods of Measurement .
The number of / 3-particles emitted by radium B and radium C was determined by two methods .
In the first method the particles were collected in a brass box thick enough to stop them all , and their number was deduced from the negative charge gained by the box .
In the second method measurement was made of the positive charge gained by the active material as the result of the loss of / 3-partieles .
If I is the charge gained per second by the collecting box or active material , when radium active deposit corresponding to M grm. of radium is used as the source of radiation , n , the number of / 3-particles emitted at the disintegration of one atom of radium B and one atom of radium C , is given by U N0M ; ( 1 ) where N is the number of atoms disintegrating per second in 1 grm. of radium , and e the charge carried by a / 3-particle .
In all calculations of n , the value of has been taken to be 15*8 E.S. units per gramme of radium per second .
The reason for assuming this value is discussed in Section 6 .
The form of apparatus finally adopted for use by the first method , apparatus A , is shown in fig. 1 .
The apparatus is contained in a glass tube fitted at one end with a large ground joint , and at the other end closed by a plug of ebonite , into which fits a brass tube G , acting as guard ring , and a ho electrometer \\\V Apparatus A. 1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
233 smaller plug , through which passes a brass rod , connected to the electrometer .
Joints are sealed airtight with white wax .
The brass tube T , of length 12 feet , which surrounds the wire leading to the electrometer , is sealed with soft wax to G , and can be exhausted .
The brass cylindrical collecting box B , of internal length 5'3 cm .
, diameter 2'2 cm .
, and thickness 2-7 mm. , a thickness probably sufficient to stop all / 3-rays , is supported by the brass rod .
The box can be unscrewed from the rod , and withdrawn from the apparatus , and one end can then be removed for the purpose of altering the lining of the box .
The glass is lined with a brass tube L , fitted at one end with a collar , into which slides the brass handle H , from which projects a short thin brass tube .
On to this tube fits the thin brass collar of the paper tube P , of which the other end is closed .
The aluminium leaf , with which the surface of P is covered , is in metallic connection through the collar , the thin tube and the handle with the lining L. L is connected to a battery of storage cells , G and T being earthed .
The active material is placed inside P. The form of apparatus used in the second method , apparatus B , is shown in fig. 2 , and consists of a round litre glass flask , of which the inner surface Apparatus A To pumpehc .
electro- meter to earth V potentiometer v---------ihl'l------^ Diagram of Connections .
Apparatus B. is silvered .
The mouth of the flask is connected by a large ground joint to a glass tube , of which the end is closed by an ebonite plug , fitted with a guard ring .
Through the plug passes a long brass rod , connected with the electrometer , and carrying the paper tube P , which contains the active material .
In order to avoid disturbance by ionisation , the apparatus was evacuated either by a Gaede pump or by the charcoal method .
Accurate results were not obtained when the pressure registered by a McLeod gauge was much greater than 0*001 mm. of mercury .
In every series of measurements the 234 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number oj ft-Particles [ May 8 , current through the apparatus in the absence of the active material was tested , but was usually found to be negligible .
The measurements of current were made by a balance method , the charge communicated in one minute , for example , to the insulated system being taken up by a condenser , of which the potential of the other surface was gradually raised during the course of a measurement by means of a potentiometer .
The electrical connections are shown diagrammatically in fig. 3 .
A Dolezalek quadrant electrometer of which the sensitiveness was varied from 250 to 2500 mm. per volt was used to test the accuracy of the compensation .
The fact that when using this induction balance* the insulated system is always approximately at the potential of the earth , minimises disturbance by ionisation by 7-rays which escape from the testing vessel .
To avoid such ionisation in the electrometer itself , it was placed at a distance of 12 feet from the active material , and a large mass of lead was interposed .
As a further precaution the earthed brass tube , which enclosed the connecting wire , was usually kept exhausted . .
It has been mentioned that the / 3-particles in their passage through metals produced slow-speed electrons , the number of which is , however , very small compared with that given by the same number of a-particles .
A special investigation , of which an account will be given in a later section , was made with the purpose of finding out the most suitable method of correcting for this secondary radiation .
In order to do so it is necessary to observe , firstly , the maximum current Ii , got by increasing the negative potential of the central electrode of apparatus A until the current becomes independent of the potential , and , secondly , the minimum current I2 , got in the same way by the use of a positive potential .
It has been found that the true current I is given by the equation , j* I = Ia + KIi-Ia ) = fli +(2 ) An account will also be found in a later section of a simpler method of measuring I. This method , which depends on the use of a magnetic field , was worked out after most of the measurements had been made .
Difficulty was for some time experienced in getting concordant estimates of the current carried by the / 3-particles , owing to the large differences often found between the currents Ii and I2 .
It was eventually found that uniformly small values of the secondary radiation , which was the cause of this disturbance , were obtained by the use of dry aluminium surfaces to the central electrode and collecting box .
* Townsend , 4 Phil. Mag. , J 1903 , vol. 6 , p. 603 .
t Cf .
p. 254 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
235 3 .
Comparison of the Two Methods .
Good agreement was obtained between the results given by the two methods .
This was tested by a special set of measurements made by both methods with the same active material and absorbing screens .
After the currents obtained by the first method had been corrected for the radiation which escaped from the collecting box , the corresponding values of I were found to differ by only 1 per cent , in each case .
I had in the second method been deduced from Ii and I2 by means of equation ( 2 ) , which has only been proved in the case of the first method .
There is , however , little doubt that this relation will still approximately hold good , and the agreement between the results of the two methods can be taken as justifying the assumption that the further corrections to be applied in - the first method are small .
The first method used apparatus which could rapidly be exhausted ; while the ease with which the collecting box could be removed afforded convenient means of studying the influence of the nature of the surface on the secondary radiation .
This radiation was , moreover , somewhat smaller and more constant from the collecting box than from the silvered surface used in apparatus B. Also the field required to obtain the minimum current I2 was 50-100 volts in apparatus A , but quite 600 volts in apparatus B. For these reasons the second method was not much used , although the considerable space which it provides for active material and absorbing screens is required for many measurements .
4 4 .
Absorption of the / 3-Radiation from Active Deposit of Radium .
The chief object in measuring the relative numbers of / 3-particles which penetrate various thicknesses of material was to provide data for an estimate of the total number of / 3-particles emitted .
This number cannot be directly measured , and it is therefore necessary to make a series of measurements , starting with only just sufficient material to stop the a-particles .
The source of activity was radium emanation in equilibrium with its disintegration products .
Since of these only radium B and radium C are known to emit / 3-particles , this source will usually , for the future , be called active deposit of radium .
The radium emanation , after purification by the condensation method , was placed in a small glass tube , of which the walls were thin , being equivalent in their power of stopping a-particles to about 2 cm .
of air .
The tube , surrounded by a small cylinder of absorbing material , was placed inside the paper cylinder which acted as central electrode in the measuring apparatus .
This plan of always keeping the same central electrode did much to ensure the constancy of the secondary radiation , and had other obvious advantages .
The material of which the Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number [ May 8 , absorbing cylinders are made must be of low atomic weight , since it is desired to stop the a- but not the / 3-particles .
It must also , when in thin sheets , be uniform in thickness , and must be tough and flexible to allow of its being rolled accurately into cylinders composed of an exact number of layers .
Oxford India paper , for the gift of which I am indebted to the Oxford University Press , satisfied these requirements .
It is , however , hygroscopic , and when intended for use in a vacuum , must be previously kept in a desiccator .
It was found to weigh 2'93 mgrm .
per square centimetre , and to be equivalent in power of stopping / 3-radiation to exactly 0 01 mm. aluminium .
The thickness of wall of each glass tube was found by a radioactive method .
The range in air of a-particles , either from the radium emanation contained in the tube , or from the polonium , which after some months took its place , was determined by the method of scintillations , and the thickness of the tube calculated from its stopping power , using the values given by Rutherford* for the range of a-particles in glass .
The result of a set of measurements of absorption by paper is given in Table I , the currents n\ and \#171 ; 2 being calculated by means of equation ( 1 ) in terms of the number of electrons carrying the current per atom of radium C disintegrating ; n is calculated from ri\ and \#187 ; 2 by means of equation ( 2 ) .
In the first column is given the thickness of aluminium equivalent to the absorbing material ( paper , glass , aluminium leaf and gum ) .
Table I.\#151 ; Absorption by India Paper of / 3-Radiation from Active Deposit of Radium .
Total absorption equivalent of paper , glass , etc. nv Sum of currents carried by / 3 and emergent secondary radiations .
w2 .
Difference between currents carried by / 8 and incident secondary radiations .
n. Number of / 8-particles from active deposit per atom of radium C disintegrating .
0 -037 mm. aluminium ... 1 *865 1*555 1 *74 0-047 " " ... 1*735 1*495 1 *64 0*057 " , , ... 1 *625 1 *39 1 *53 0-067 " " ... 1 *57 1*315 1 *47 0-077 " " ... 1 *46 1 *24 1*37 0-097 " " ... 1 *355 1*145 1*27 0-117 " " ... 1 *24 1 *04 1 *16 Each sheet of paper was found to be equivalent in stopping power to 0'010 mm. aluminium , the thickness being calculated from the weight on the assumption that the density of aluminium is 2'7 .
The values of n obtained through different thicknesses of paper are plotted * Rutherford , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 192 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
237 in fig. 4 .
The curve shown in this figure is theoretical , and its meaning will be discussed later.* From an inspection of the experimental points it is evident that slightly more than two / 3-particles are emitted by radium B and radium C together , when one atom of each disintegrates .
Fig. 4 .
Hundredths of a millimetre of aluminium .
Absorption by Paper of / 3-radiation from Active Deposit of Radium .
These measurements were made in apparatus A , and since there was no room for bulky absorbing cylinders , other absorbing materials were used in many cases .
The results obtained with lead , which was unfortunately later found to contain 8 per cent , of tin , are given in Table II .
The currents observed through the greatest thickness of lead , which have , of course , been corrected for the natural leak through the apparatus , are not due to the primary / 3-radiation , which has presumably been entirely absorbed , but to the secondary / 3-rays excited by the 7-rays .
Since the stream of 3-rays produced by them in the lead will be nearly balanced by the stream of rays leaving the collecting box , the observed currents are a measure of the secondary 3-radiation produced in the brass lining of the glass tube which contains the apparatus .
The radiation from the brass lining which reaches * Cf .
p. 241 .
238 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number [ May 8 , Table II .
Absorbing material equivalent to lead weighing Observed values .
After correction for secondary / 3-radiation .
n2 .
nx .
n2 .
n. 0 *074 grm. per sq .
cm .
0-515 0*441 0*506 0 *438 0-479 0 *108 " 0-319 0-265 0*310 0*262 0*291 0 *148 " 0-221 0-185 0*212 0-182 0-200 0 *183 " 0-160 0-134 0 -151 0*131 0*143 0 *219 " 0 -1225 0-102 0-113 0-099 0-108 0 *262 " 0 -0929 0 -0758 0 -0838 0 -0725 0 *0793 0 -313 " 0-0671 0 *0558 0 -0580 0 -0525 0 *0558 0 *415 " 0 -0376 0 -0282 0 *0285 0 -0249 0 -0271 0 *501 " 0 -0250 0 *0156 0 -0159 0 -0123 0 -0145 0 *739 " 0 -0L60 0 *0084 0 *0069 0 *0051 0 *0062 .1 *25 " } } 0 -0091 0*0031 the collecting box is opposed in direction to the 7-rays and is therefore* smaller in amount than the secondary / 3-radiation from the lead , measurements of which are given in a later section .
The relatively large differences between ni and n2 which are noticeable in all measurements through the greater thicknesses of lead are due to the secondary slow-speed radiation excited by the secondary / 3-rays , and are of the magnitude expected , when all the radiating surfaces are taken into account .
The values of % and n2 given in Fig. 5 .
Grammes per sq .
cm .
lead .
Absorption by Lead of / 3-radiation from Active Deposit of Radium .
* Bragg and Madsen , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1908 , vol. 16 , p. 918 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
239 columns 4 and 5 were obtained by subtracting in each case the values obtained through lead weighing T25 grm. per square centimetre .
That this correction has been successful in eliminating the secondary / 3-radiation is indicated by the fact that the relative differences between and n2 have now been reduced to their usual value .
The logarithms of the corresponding values of n are in fig. 5 plotted against the thicknesses of the lead absorbing cylinders .
The absorption is over the greater part of the range exponential , the absorption coefficient of the radiation being 7'1 ( gramme per square centimetre)-1 .
5 .
Comparison of the Number of / 3-Pa Emitted by Radium B and Radium C. Experiments will now be described which determine how many of the / 3-particles emitted by active deposit of radium in equilibrium with emanation come from radium B , and how many come from radium C. Radium B was deposited by recoil from radium A on the inside of a paper tube , and measurements were made of the change with time of the number of / 3-particles emitted through the walls of the tube .
It has been shown by Makower and the author* that by this method radium B can be obtained \#166 ; entirely free from radium C. It is , therefore , possible to calculate from these measurements the relative number of particles ejected through the paper tube by each atom of radium B and radium C wThich disintegrates .
The paper tube , after three minutes spent in collecting radium B , was fitted to the handle H in apparatus A. The apparatus was exhausted to a low pressure and readings were taken for an hour of the charge gained by the collecting box .
The currents observed being small , each measurement extended over three minutes .
The ratio of the secondary radiation to the / 3-radiation was found to be approximately constant , provided measurements were not taken until the apparatus had been exhausted to a pressure of a thousandth of a millimetre for some few minutes .
To avoid the error which would have been introduced by any variation in this ratio , a field of alternately + 80 volts was maintained between P and the collecting box , and the mean of each two consecutive readings was taken as a measure of the number of / 3-particles emitted .
The observed variation with .time in the number of particles emitted is shown in fig. 6 , the experimental points on the curve being obtained when the stopping power of P was equivalent to that of 0049 mm. of aluminium .
The curve drawn is a theoretical curve 'Calculated on the assumption that , if the number of / 3-particles transmitted by the paper at the disintegration of an atom of radium C is arbitrarily taken as 1 , the number transmitted per atom of radium B is 0715 , this * Moseley and Makower , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1912 , vol. 23 , p. 302 .
240 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of [ May 8 , ratio being so chosen as to make the curve agree with experiment .
The time is reckoned from the end of the three minutes during which the radium B was being deposited , allowance being made for the small quantity Fig. 6 .
\#187 ; 60 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time in minutes .
of radium G which grew on the paper during that time .
The half-value periods of radium B and radium C have been taken as 26'7 minutes and 19'5 minutes .
Similar experiments were made using paper of two other thicknesses .
Taking , therefore , the values given by fig. 4 , for the total number of ,0-particles ejected through the paper by the active deposit in equilibrium with emanation , we obtain the following table:\#151 ; Table III.\#151 ; Comparison of / 3-Itadiation from Radium B and Radium C. Total thickness of absorbing material equivalent to Number of ( 3-particles from active deposit per atom of radium C disintegrating .
Relative number of / 8-particles from radium B and radium C penetrating the absorbing material .
Number of / 8-particles penetrating the absorbing material from each atom of Radium B. Radium C. 0 *049 mm. aluminium 1-62 71-5 : 100 0-675 0*945 0*065 " " 1*48 64 -0 : 100 0-577 0-903 0*092 " * " 1 -29 50 -0 : 100 0-43 0*86 The ratios B : C found in the table may , owing to the insensitiveness of the method employed and the smallness of the observed currents , be in error by perhaps 2 per cent. The logarithms of the numbers of / 3-particles from radium B and radium C are , in fig. 7 , plotted against the thickness of absorbing material through which they have passed .
The absorption is 1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
241 assumed in the case of radium B to follow an exponential law .
In the case of radium C it is known that the absorption is not exponential .
The absorption curve given in fig. 7 was obtained by assuming that radium C Hundredths of a millimetre of aluminium .
Absorption by Paper of / 3-radiation from Radium B and Radium C. gives equal quantities of soft radiation of absorption coefficient 50 cm."1 aluminium and hard radiation of about 13 cm"1 .
This assumption is taken from the result obtained by Geiger and Kovarik.* Their data , which are based on measurements of ionisation , have been corrected for the variation of ionisation with the hardness of the radiation .
Extrapolation then gives as the total number of / 3-particles emitted by each atom , 1T0 for radium B and the same number for radium C. The curve given in fig. 4 has been obtained by adding together the numbers of ^-particles from radium B and radium C taken from the curves in fig. 7 .
It satisfactorily fits the observations through the smaller thicknesses of paper , but afterwards gives values which are somewhat too low ; probably the absorption coefficient of radium B there becomes smaller .
6 .
The Number of / 3-Particles Emitted by an Atom of Radium B or Radium C. The determination of the number of / 3-particles emitted by an atom of radium B or radium 0 depends on four factors , on the three quantities M , He , and I given in equation ( 1 ) , p. 232 , and on the absorption of the yS-particles by the paper used to stop the a-radiation .
We have seen that both radium B and radium C appear to emit slightly more than one / 3-particle for each atom disintegrating , and since this conclusion is of some theoretical importance , it will be supported by a short discussion of the errors involved in the determination .
* Geiger and Kovarik , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 604 .
242 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of / 3-Particles [ May 8 , The quantities of radium B and radium C used in the present work have been measured , by comparison of the 7-radiation , with that of the radium standard of this laboratory .
The results obtained will therefore not be affected by error in the standard , provided the value assumed for has been referred to the same standard .
Two such values for Ne have been obtained , the one by Rutherford and Geiger , * by measuring the charge carried by the a-particles emitted by a measured quantity of radium C , the other by Boltwood and Rutherford , f by measuring the volume of helium produced from radium in a definite time .
Reckoned in E.S. units per gramme of radium per second , these values are 15*8 and 15*6 .
It seems therefore probable that the value ISte = 15*8 assumed in the present work is sensibly correct .
The measurements of current made by the author depend on the capacity of the condenser employed , and on the potential to which it is charged .
The latter was compared with that of a standard cell .
The condenser used in most of the measurements had been carefully standardised by an electromagnetic method some years ago .
Later measurements of current were made , using a condenser standardised to within 1 per cent , by direct comparison , both with a half micro-farad standard and with a concentric cylinder condenser , fitted with guard rings , of which the capacity was calculated from the dimensions .
The different sets of measurements were made with radium emanation contained in glass tubes of varying thicknesses , so that direct comparison of the results is impossible .
Each measurement has therefore been compared with the value taken for the appropriate thickness of absorbing material from the curve given on fig. 4 , and the mean percentage difference between the results of each set of measurements and the curve has been tabulated in Table IV .
Table IV.\#151 ; Summary of Results .
Series of experiments .
Method of measurement .
Mean result compared with smoothed curve , fig. 4 .
I to IV First method Secondary radiation large , results therefore doubtful .
2| per cent. low .
Used to obtain the curve , therefore 1 per cent , high after correcting .
1 per cent. low .
0 per cent. low .
2\ per cent. low .
1 per cent. low .
v First method YX First method VI ( about a week later ) ... VII J First method \ Second method . .
Second method ... YXII First method * Rutherford and Geiger , 4 Roy .
Soc. Proc. , J 1908 , A , vol. 81 , p. 162 .
t Boltwood and Rutherford , 4 Phil. Mag. , ' 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 586 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
243 The values obtained by the first method have all been increased by 1 per cent , to allow for those ^-particles which escape through the hole in the collecting box .
The agreement between the later sets of values is seen to be close , and the error involved in taking the curve to be correct is probably not more than about 2 per cent. The error introduced by the reflection of the / 9-particles will now be considered .
Although some / 9-particles reflected from the walls of the collecting box will return to the central electrode , they will , when the electrode consists only of a small thickness of paper , pass through it for the most part unabsorbed .
The slower particles which might be stopped by the paper are not so often reflected as the faster , but , as a precaution , the walls of the collecting box were lined with paper or aluminium foil so as further to diminish the reflection .
Reflection then introduces no appreciable error .
When the central electrode contained cylinders of lead the reflected rays which hit it were for the most part again reflected , and it can be calculated from data given by Kovarik* that the lead cylinders absorbed little more than 1 per cent , of the radiation which originally escaped from them .
It is obvious from an inspection of fig. 4 that somewhat more than two / 9-particles are emitted during the transformation of radium active deposit\#151 ; that is during the disintegration of one atom of radium B and one atom of radium C\#151 ; provided , of course , that the value assumed for Ke is correct .
It is by no means so obvious from an inspection of fig. 7 , either that an atom of radium B or that an atom of radium C emits more than one / 9-particle .
In the case of radium B , indeed , the extrapolation is so large that it is impossible to give a definite opinion on this point .
The case of radium C is clearer , for here the extrapolation is small and fairly definite , but it will perhaps be best to accept provisionally the value 1T0 / 9-particles given by fig. 7 both for an atom of radium B and of radium C , deferring , however , any explanation of the departure from a whole number until more is known about the initial absorption of heterogeneous / 9-radiation .
This estimate does not include / 3-radiations with velocities only 036 and 041 of that light , stated by Hahnf to be emitted by radium B , as these would be entirely absorbed by the material used to stop the a-rays .
7 .
The Number of ft-Particl from Radium E. A preliminary investigation of the number of / 9-particles emitted by radium E will now be described .
Three sources of radium D and radium E in radioactive equilibrium were employed , the first two being thin-walled * Kovarik , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1910 , vol. 20 , p. 849 .
+ Baeyer , Hahn , and Meitner , 'Phys .
Zeit .
, ' 1911 , vol. 12 , p. 1099 .
Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of ( 3-Particles [ May 8 , glass tubes , which had some months previously been filled with a measured quantity of radium emanation for use in the work on radium B and radium C. The third source was some aluminium leaf which was exposed for a definite time to radium emanation .
From subsequent measurements of the 7-ray activity of the leaf , the activity at the moment of removal was calculated , and hence also the total quantity of active material deposited during the exposure .
The quantity of radium D and radium E present in one of the sources can easily be deduced , assuming 16*5 years* to be the half value period of radium D , but such calculations are subject to several possibilities of error .
The activities of the three sources were therefore compared by ionisation methods , and were proved to be proportional to the quantities of radium emanation from which they arose .
The third source , originating from the decay of about 13 millicuries of radium emanation , was surrounded by four sheets of India paper and used for measurement of the current carried by the / 3-particles .
The observed current was small , the system when insulated charging at the rate of about 0*005 volt per minute .
The chief difficulties experienced in getting reliable readings were traced to three causes , namely , leakage of charge from the surfaces of insulators , changes in the potential of the field used for controlling the secondary radiation , and leakage from the needle to the quadrants of the electrometer .
The first difficulty was overcome by screening the insulating surfaces , the second by the use of batteries of small cadmium cells , the third by balancing the leak from the electrometer needle against the leak through a condenser , which was included in the insulated system , and was used for standardising the observed current .
The current through the exhausted apparatus in the absence of active material was also observed .
Successful measurements of the current carried by the ,8-particles were finally made in apparatus B , the result found being that the number of / 3-particles penetrating four sheets of India paper , equivalent in all to 0*04 mm. aluminium , is 0*525 particle per atom of radium E disintegrating .
No great accuracy is claimed for this measurement , but it is not likely to be more than 10 per cent , in error , provided the value assumed for the period of radium D is correct .
Accurate values and a knowledge of the manner in which the radiation is absorbed are no doubt attainable by the use of more active material , but if the explanation which will be offered for this curious result is correct , little would thereby be gained .
The absorption curve of the radiation from radium ]D and radium E at first falls more quickly with increasing thickness of absorbing material than subsequently , when the absorption obeys an exponential law .
The part of * Antonoff , 'Phil .
Mag.,5 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 825 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
245 ' the radiation included when the exponential curve is extrapolated back to the origin will be termed " hard " radiation , and the rest " soft " radiation .
From the observations of Geiger and Kovarik , * which do not depend on a knowledge of the period of radium D , it may be deduced , by the method given later in Section 8 of this paper , that of the " hard " ' radiation O'ol / 3-particle and of the soft radiation about 0035 / 8-particle will penetrate 0'04 mm. aluminium for every atom of radium E which disintegrates .
The total value 0'545 is in reasonable agreement with the 0-525 / 3-particle per atom disintegrating given above .
A preliminary observation on the growth of radium E from pure radium D has convinced the present writer that , contrary to the opinion expressed by Kovarik , f a part at least of the " soft " radiation is emitted by radium E itself .
In view of the resulting uncertainty in the amount of / 3-radiation absorbed by 0'04 mm. of aluminium , it is not possible to state definitely that each atom of radium E does not emit a / 3- particle , although we have no reason to suspect such a large proportion of easily absorbed radiation .
In such a case it is obviously unsatisfactory to measure the radiation after passage through absorbing screens , and an attempt is being made to eliminate the effect of 8-rays , and so obtain direct measurements of the charge carried by a mixture of a- and / 3-particles .
8 .
The Ionising Power of a The number of ions produced in air by a / 3-particle per centimetre of path has been determined by Durack , J but owing to the reflection of the / 3-particles within his apparatus he did not obtain an accurate result .
In the measurements which will now be described the error due to reflection has been eliminated .
Separate measurements have been made ( 1 ) of the current carried in vacuo by / 3-particles and ( 2 ) of the saturation ionisation current which / 3-particles produce in air at atmospheric pressure .
The source of radiation was in either case a definite amount of active deposit of radium , the quantity used in the second measurement being smaller than in the first .
If the currents ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are for active deposit per curie of emanation Oi and C2 , N , the number of pairs of ions produced per / 3-particle-per centimetre of path , is given by where L is the average path of a / 3-particle in the ionisation vessel .
By measuring Ci and C2 after the radiation has passed through various* Log. cit. t Kovarik , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1910 , vol. 20 , p. 849 .
x Durack , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1903 , vol. 5 , p. 550 .
VOL. LXXXVII.\#151 ; A. S Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of fi-Particles [ May 8 , thicknesses t of absorbing material , the variation of N " with X , the absorption coefficient of the radiation , has been found .
X has been calculated from the slope of curves drawn to show the variation of C with t. The method of measuring C has already been described , and the greater part of the data used here in calculating C and X has been given in Section 4 of this paper .
*C2 was measured in an ionisation chamber , of which the walls were so thin as to reflect back no appreciable amount of / 3-radiation .
Across a large outer framework of steel knitting needles were stretched fine brass wires .
\#187 ; Where the wires crossed they formed two small squares , which when connected together formed the skeleton of a cube .
The sides of the cube were made of aluminium foil of thickness ( \gt ; 00024 cm .
The source of j3-radiation , a thin glass tube containing radium emanation , was placed inside an absorbing tube of paper or lead .
This in its turn was inside a thin aluminium-coated paper cylinder , which acted as a central electrode to the cube , the mean path of a / 3-particle between the electrode and the cube being 1b50 cm .
The saturated ionisation current was measured with an electrometer .
To allow for absorption of the radiation by the air the equivalent of | L = 1*75 cm .
of air was included in the thickness of the absorbing material .
A few of the values of N obtained from these data are given in the following table :\#151 ; Table Y. Absorbing material equivalent to X in cm.-1 aluminium .
0 , . .
Current carried by / 3-particles from active deposit per curie of emanation .
c2 .
Current carried by ions from active deposit per curie of emanation .
N. Number of ions per / 8-particle per cm .
of path in air at 760 mm. and 15 ' C. 0 *0053 cm .
aluminium 53 25*0 3080 123 0 -0173 " 36 14 *7 1560 106 0 *149 grm. per sq .
cm .
lead 15 3*16 259 82 The values both of Ci and C2 have been corrected for the effect of 7-radiation .
Before discussing these results an account will be given of experiments from which the value of N was determined for the radiation from pure radium B. The variation of ionisation with time was measured in the ionisation chamber described above , starting with pure radium B. From this the relative ionisations produced by the radiations from radium B and radium C were deduced in the same way as were the relative numbers of , / 3-particles in the experiments described in Section 5 .
With care the 1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
inevitable contamination of the apparatus with radium emanation was reduced , until it became negligible compared with the radium B obtained by a recoil lasting three minutes .
The results obtained are given below , the relative number of / 3-particles given in column 3 being taken from curve 7:\#151 ; Table YI .
t. Thickness of absorbing material equivalent to Eatio of activities , after passing through t , of / 3-rays from radium B and radium C in equilibrium .
Eatio of ionisations B : C. Eatio of numbers of / 8-particles .
0 '057 mm. aluminium 0-100 " " : : 1 -15 : 1 0 -75 : 1 : : 0 *664 : 1 0*49 : 1 When t = 0'057 mm. aluminium we see that radium B contributes 1T5/ 2T5 or 53'5 per cent , to the ionisation produced by active deposit of radium , 0"664/ T664 or 39'8 per cent , to the number of / 3-particles emitted .
Hence N for radium B:N for active deposit : : 53"5 : 39'8 .
From this the following values of N for radium B are deduced:\#151 ; Table VII .
t. A for active deposit in cm.-1 aluminium .
N for active deposit .
N for radium B. A for radium B. 0 '057 mm. aluminium ... 52 122 164 About 100 0-100 " " ... 46 117 152 About 90 The method by which these values are calculated does not lead to very exact results .
The variation of N with X given in Tables V and VII is plotted in curve 8 .
These results , which are of practical rather than theoretical interest , are in general agreement with the conclusion of W. Wilson , * that for homogeneous / 3-radiation , N varies inversely as the square of the velocity .
Similar results would not have been found if an ionisation chamber with thick walls had been employed .
Makower , f using a small ionisation chamber , found that over a considerable range N was independent of This result , the approximate truth of which was confirmed when using apparatus A as ionisation chamber , is due to the * W. Wilson , 'Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1911 , A , vol. 85 , p. 240 .
t Makower , ' Phil. Mag. , ' 1909 , vol. 17 , p. 171 .
S 2 248 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of [ May 8 , increase of reflection with velocity* of a / 3-particle up to a certain speed , and does not hold good when larger ionisation chambers are used .
Fig. 8 .
Absorption coefficient in em.~l aluminium .
Ionising Power of a / 3-particle .
The main object of this study of ionisation was to throw light on the results obtained by Geiger and Kovarik .f These authors have measured W:\gt ; , the ionisation produced per centimetre by the / 3-radiation which accompanies the disintegration of an atom , b being the number of / 3-particles ejected by each atom .
Since they had no accurate knowledge of the value of N , and knew nothing of its variation with X , no reliance could be placed on the values they suggested for b. It is now , however , possible , with the help of the values of N given by the curve in fig. 8 , to estimate b with some accuracy .
These values of b , and the data from which they have been calculated , are collected in Table VIII .
Table VIII .
Source of radiation .
X in cm .
1 aluminium .
m. 1ST .
b. Radium B About 100 133 164 0*81 Radium C About 31 108 100 1 *08 Radium E 43 *3 60 ' 113 0 *61 Actinium D 28*5 136 98 1 *39 Thorium 0 + 13 16 *3 68 83 0 *82 Uranium X 14 *4 78 81 0 *965 * Kovarik , loc. cit. t Log. cit. 1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
249 The values of X are for radium B and radium C the initial values assumed earlier in this paper , the other values are taken from their paper .
The result is for radium C and radium E in satisfactory agreement with the values found by a direct method.* The value found in this way for radium B is much lower than that found directly , the explanation probably being that , in assuming 75 cm."1 as the absorption coefficient of the radiation , they have allowed too little for the initial absorption .
Fajans and Makowerf have recently found the absorption coefficient to be 91 cm."1 .
The value of N6 given by Geiger and Kovarik for thorium D has been halved , since it was calculated by them on the assumption that thorium Ci and C2 were successive products , each atom emitting one a-particle , whereas it is now knownJ that this is not so .
From the three new values of b which have in this way been found , we gather that an atom of uranium X emits one / 3-particle , provided the soft / 3-radiation which appears also to come from this substance is disregarded .
The transformation of thorium C and thorium D is complicated , and a discussion of the meaning of the value of b found for these substances would be premature .
The result obtained in the case of actinium D calls for further enquiry . .
9 .
Secondary ( 3-Radiation from y-Rays .
An account will now be given of an experiment made to test the number of secondary / 3-particles emitted by material traversed by 7-radiation .
A glass tube , of thickness 1 mm. , surrounded by a lead cylinder , of thickness 2*5 mm. , was fixed to the central electrode of apparatus B , which was then exhausted .
The tube contained a few millicuries of radium emanation and its disintegration products .
Since the 7-rays are known to be uncharged and it is improbable that any / 3-rays could penetrate 2*5 mm. of lead , the small positive charge gained by the lead cylinder was attributed to the loss of secondary / 3-rays .
The charge gained by the cylinder was measured with alternately positive and negative fields between the cylinder and the enclosing vessel , the mean current from the cylinder being found to correspond to the emission of 1*89 xlO6 / 3-particles per second , while the 7-radiation which emerged from the cylinder was found to correspond to the total 7-radiation from 6*5 mgrm .
of radium , by measurement with an electroscope , of which the lead walls were of thickness 3 mm. It follows that 7-radiation equivalent to that from 1 grm. of radium causes the emission from the cylinder of 2*9 x 108 / 3-particles per second .
This number was approximately unaltered when the lead was covered with 0*9 mm. of paper .
* Cf .
pp. 241 and 245 .
+ Fajans and Makower , ' Phil. Mag./ 1912 vol. 23 , p. 292 .
X Marsden and Barrett , ' Proc. Phys. Soc. Lond. , ' 1911 , vol. 24 , p. 50 .
250 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number [ May 8 , If Bragg 's theory of the conversion of a 7-ray into a / 3-particle is accepted , it follows that 7-rays N in number passing through a thick sheet of lead cause the emission from the sheet of / 3-particles of which the number B is given by I* CO B = J N/ , ie~udt = N ^ , ( 4 ) where X and ji6 are the absorption coefficients for lead of the secondary / 3- and the 7-radiations .
It appears from measurements of made by Bragg , * and of X made by Soddy.f that / jl/ X is approximately 1/ 170 for the 7-rays which penetrate 1*5 cm .
of lead .
This value of fi/ X can without great error also be taken for the 7-rays which penetrate 2*5 mm. of lead , since X is known to increase with / / , , and the difference between the values of / u , found for these two types of 7-radiation is not very large .
Let Ni be the number of 7-rays emerging per second from the cylinder when this radiation is equivalent , as measured in the electroscope , to that from 1 grm. of radium .
Owing to the difference in penetrating power between the radiation from the cylinder and that from the radium , N2 , the whole number of rays emitted by 1 grm. of radium per second , is considerably greater than Ni .
It must on the other hand be remembered that part of N2 is due to the disintegration of radium B. Now Ni = 170 x 2*9 x 108 = 5 x 1010 , so that , correcting for these two factors , and taking the number of atoms disintegrating per second in 1 grm. of radium to be 3*4 x 1010 we conclude that the number of 7-rays emitted by an atom of radium C is to the nearest whole number two .
Quite apart from Bragg 's theory , we should have to conclude that the 7-radiation from radium C contained more energy than the / 3-radiation , were it not for our knowledge^ of the existence of an undetermined number of / 3-particles with velocities approaching that of light , each of which must contain a very large quantity of energy .
It may be recalled that EveS as the result of measurements of ionisation expresses the opinion that the 7-radiation from radium C contains twice as much energy as the / 3-radiation .
10 .
Secondary and S-Rays .
It has already been stated that surfaces penetrated by / 3-rays emit a secondary radiation consisting of slow-speed electrons .
Previous investigators have noticed that the current carried by the / 8-rays depends on the potential difference maintained between the source of radiation and the collecting box , * Bragg and Madsen , 'Phil .
Mag./ 1908 , vol. 16 , p. 918 .
t F. and W. M. Soddy and Russell , 'Phil .
Mag./ 1910 , vol. 19 , p. 725 .
X Danysz , ' Le Radium/ 1912 , vol. 9 , p. 1 .
S Eve , 'Phil .
Mag./ 1911 , vol. 22 , p. 551 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
251 and have assumed this effect to be caused by the ionisation of residual gas left in the apparatus after evacuation .
This effect was found to persist even when the pressure registered by a McLeod gauge was less than O'OOOo mm. of mercury .
This is , however , no proof that the effect is not due to ionisation , since a comparatively large quantity of vapour from tap grease would , if present , have escaped detection .
A number of determinations under different conditions have been made of the variation with the strength and direction of the electric field of the current carried by the / 3-rays .
The results all had one feature in common ; as the field was increased in either direction , the current approached a limiting value , the maximum value being obtained by the application of a few volts , the minimum requiring 50-100 volts in apparatus A , and about 500 volts in apparatus B. It is evident that a very small field would have sufficed to saturate ionisation of the usual kind , while if ionisation by collision were taking place , the current would have reached no limiting value .
It appeared , therefore , certain that the observed effect was not due to ionisation .
Since the fields employed were far too small to turn back any / 3-rays , it was concluded that the effect was due to the emission of charged particles from the surfaces struck by these rays .
The fact that a much larger electric field was needed to obtain the minimum than the maximum value of the current proved that these particles carried a negative charge .
The fact that the potential required to obtain the minimum current increased with the size of the collecting vessel admits of two alternative explanations .
Either the emission of the particles depends on the electric intensity at the surface from which they are emitted , or particles leave the surface of the collecting vessel with considerable velocity , and so require a powerful field to make them reach the small central electrode .
The variation of current with field in apparatus A is shown in fig. 9 , the source of radiation being radium B and radium C in equilibrium .
The central electrode was made of paper coated with aluminium leaf , the collecting box being lined with aluminium foil .
The potentials are those of the central electrode , the potential of the collecting box being always approximately zero : the currents are expressed in percentages of the maximum .
The points marked with crosses represent currents obtained when a magnetic field was applied in the direction of the axis of symmetry of the apparatus. .
The magnetic field was obtained by sending a current through a solenoid wound on the apparatus , and its strength was of the order of 250 gauss .
The marked effect on the current of a magnetic field shows that the secondary radiation consists of slow-speed electrons .
The fact that in the absence of an electric field the magnetic field has absolutely no effect on the current shows that 252 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of [ May 8 , the secondary radiation exists only in the presence of an electric field , the electrons released from the atoms in the surface being of themselves unable to escape .
In this case , therefore , we see that the second of the two Potential of Central Electrode , in volts .
alternatives offered is the true explanation of the variation with the size of the apparatus of the potential required to obtain the minimum current .
Here there would appear at first sight to be a striking difference between the secondary and the 8-rays .
The latter are electrons emitted from a .surface penetrated by a-particles , and several authors have attributed to them a very considerable velocity .
Eecently , however , Campbell , * as the result of a complete discussion of this point , has concluded that all determinations of the velocity made by previous investigators are quite untrustworthy , and gives some evidence that the velocity is much smaller than is commonly supposed .
Now this same method by which the velocity of emission of the secondary rays has been investigated is equally applicable to the 8-rays .
The difference between the method adopted in this experiment and that employed by others consists in the absence of symmetry , whereby , if there is no electric field , the rays emitted by the central electrode will all reach the collecting box , while of those emitted by the collecting box only a negligible fraction will reach the central electrode .
If , in the absence of an electric field , the current is unaffected by a magnetic field , we are justified in assuming that there is then no radiation from the central electrode .
The experiment described above was therefore repeated , using as central electrode a fine glass tube coated with aluminium leaf .
* Campbell , 'Phil .
Mag. , ' 1912 , vol. 23 , p. 46 .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
Through the walls of the tube passed a-rays from radium emanation and active deposit , which it contained .
The observed variation with the electric field of the current between the electrodes is shown in fig. 10 .
The points marked with crosses refer to the currents obtained under the influence of a magnetic field of about 500 gauss .
It will be seen by inspection of this curve that nearly half of the S-rays are only emitted from the central electrode under the action of an electric field , while the rest are emitted \#171 ; with a velocity such that a potential difference of about 2 volts is required to stop them .
No significance can be attached to this difference between the velocities of the secondary and S-rays .
Radiations such as these are greatly influenced by the condition of the surface , and this may well have differed in the two cases .
The maximum amounts of radiation ejected by one particle from the central electrode and from the collecting box when helped by an electric field will , for the future , be termed the emergence and the incidence radiation .
Taking 0*6 on the scale on which this curve is drawn to be the current carried by the charges on the a- and / 3-particles , we obtain 10*6 for the emergence radiation and 7*45 for the incidence radiation .
It will be seen by reference to fig. 9 that for the secondary rays the incidence radiation is the greater , the incidence radiation being 0*096 , while the emergence radiation is 0'064 .
This may be attributed to the effect of the reflection of the / 3-particles at the walls of the collecting box , each reflection adding two to the number of times the / 3-particle penetrates the surface .
If the S and secondary rays are really of the same character , and are due 254 Mr. H. G. J. Moseley .
Number of / 3-Particles [ May 8 , to a process analogous to ionisation in the surface , the relative amount of their emergence radiation should be approximately the same as the relative ionising power in air of the a- and / 3-rays .
The emergence radiation from aluminium due to a / 3-particle was , in the experiment described above , 0*064 , that from an a-particle approximately 14 ; the corresponding ionisations per centimetre in air being 110 and about 25,000 .
The close agreement between the ratio 0*064/ 14 and 110/ 25,000 is partly accidental , the amount neither of the secondary nor of the S-radiation being known with any accuracy , but even a rough agreement is a striking illustration of the similarity of the two radiations .
Both the secondary and the S-radiations proved to be somewhat variable in amount , and values similar to those given above can only be consistently obtained if certain precautions are observed .
The smallest values of the secondary radiation were obtained by using very dry aluminium surfaces , the secondary radiation from surfaces of brass and tin being always slightly larger and more erratic than that from aluminium .
In more than one case in the earlier measurements the amount of secondary radiation was more than doubled , consistently high values being obtained without any assignable reason through a whole series of experiments .
When the apparatus was freshly exhausted the secondary radiation was at first somewhat large , and continued slightly to diminish for some hours .
The original object of this investigation of the secondary rays was to find a method by which their effect on the current carried by the / 3-rays could be eliminated .
It has been seen that their effect can be eliminated by experiment merely by keeping the two surfaces at the same potential , and it can be eliminated by calculation by taking as the true current carried by the / 3-rays the minimum current plus three-fifths the difference between the maximum and the minimum , thus allowing for the fact that the incidence is 50 per cent , greater than the emergence radiation .
This calculation only applies strictly to measurements made in apparatus A. For accurate work it is unsafe to trust the experimental method without a magnetic field by which the absence of secondary radiation can be confirmed .
It is equally unsafe to employ the method of calculation if the secondary radiation is much greater than normal in amount .
The error made by taking the mean current as the current carried by the / 3-particles is usually small .
11 .
Summary of Results .
1 .
Each atom of radium B and of radium C emits on disintegrating probably one / 3-particle , although measurement gives in either case as the average number 1*10 / 3-particles .
Each atom of radium E appears to emit less than one / 3-particle .
1912 .
] Emitted in the Transformation of Radium .
255 2 .
The absorption of the / 9-radiation from radium active deposit has been studied , measurements being made both of the number of / 9-particles penetrating the absorbing material and of the ionisation they produce .
From these data the ionising power of a / 3-particle in air and its variation with the absorption coefficient of the radiation have been calculated , the number of ions produced per centimetre of path being found to vary from 82 when \ = 15 cm.-1 aluminium to about 160 when \ = 100 cm.-1 .
3 .
With the help of data obtained by Geiger and Kovarik the numbers of / 8-particles emitted on disintegration by atoms of uranium X , thorium D , and actinium D have been estimated to be 1 , 0'8 , and 1'4 respectively .
4 .
The number of secondary / 3-particles emitted by material traversed by y-rays has been measured .
It has been deduced on certain assumptions that each atom of radium C emits on disintegrating two y-rays .
5 .
Surfaces penetrated by / 3-rays emit a secondary radiation .
This radiation is very similar to the 3-rays .
It appears that the secondary radiation cannot leave the surface unless assisted by an electric field , and that of the 3-rays some are emitted with a small velocity corresponding to a difference of potential of the order of 2 volts .
In conclusion I wish to express my sincere gratitude to Prof. Rutherford , who has both suggested this research and taken a kind interest in its progress .

