]\gt ; 166 Dr. J. S. Lombard on [ Mar. 7 , Two resistances were inserted in the cirruit for two ferent sets of readings , the first case ohm of total resistance , in the other Table refers to these experiments , the curve marked A in the Diagram being that due to the first , being that due to the second .
It will be noticed that the curve becomes a straight line , or , in other words , tlJe electromotive force increases directly as the number of revolutions of the armature , a result which might have been expected theoretically .
It will also be seen that the current for any given number of revolutions varies inversely as the resistance in clrcuit , or , in other words , that the electromotive force for a given number of revolutions is constant .
In amy results , therefore , which are given descriptive of the light produced by any machine , the followlng should be noted:\mdash ; Number of revolutions of armature ; Resistance in circuit ; Horse-power expended ; Colour of light measured ; Electromotive forces .
together with the size of the carbons employed , and other obvious details .
II .
" " Experimental Researches on the Temperature of the Head By J. S. LoLIBARD , , formerly Assistant-Professor of Physiology in Harvard University , U.S. Communicated by H. BASTLtN , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Pathological Anatomy University College , London .
( Abstract .
) The present communication forms an abstract of the first portion of a series of investigabions having the following primary objects in Vlew : \mdash ; 1st .
To find out , as far as possible , the normal relative temperatures of different portions of the surface of the head , when the brain is comparatively inactive .
2nd .
To study the effect of different mental states upon the different portions of the surface of the head previously examined in the condition of comparative cerebral inactivity .
The ultimate objects were two-fold ; namely:\mdash ; 1st .
To furnish , if possible , some reliable data as a starting point , 1878 .
] the Temperature of the Head .
for examining the temperature of the surface of the head , with a vie to assisting in the diagnosis and localization of cerebral disease .
2nd .
To see if , from an examination of the relative ol different portions of the surface of the head during increased mental activity , any information could be obtalned as to the importance of the parts played by different portions of the braln 111 the evolution of thought and the different emotions .
To commence the first of these ultimate objects of the investigations , it is easy to see that everything depends upon an knowledge of the normal relative temperatures of the different portions of the surface of the head , and the variations of such temperatures within healthy limits .
Without this knowledge it is impossible to come to any satisfactory conclusion as to the existence of localized cerebral disorder by examining the temperature of the surface of the head .
So far as the riter is aware , Dr. Wm. A. Hammond , * of New York , was the first to indicate that a difference of temperature exists between the two sides of the head in health .
In 1875 , Dr , Hammond , making use of a thermo-electric appal'atus , devised by the writer the year previous , came to the conclusion , from observations made on a large number of individnals , that the left side of the head has a temperature than the right side .
Unfortunately the notes furnished by Dr. Hammond , in { he writer 's possession , do not state the exact locality examined , a matter of great importance as will be seen further on .
During the past year M. has brought forward experiments the same subject .
M. Broca , using thermometers , has also come to the conclusion that the left side of the head has the temperature .
The sources of error in M. Broca 's method will be presently noticed .
Turning now to the second of the ultimate objects of the present investigations , namely , the connexion between the reIative share of mental work done in a given part of the brain , and the relative temperature of the surface over such part , it is evident that here also a thorough acquaintance with the relative temperatures of the different portions of the surface of the head iu the quiescent mental condition is requisite .
As regards what has been already done on the subject of the relation between heat and mental work , it may be summed up in a few words .
In 1866 the writer commenced a series of experiments with thermoeIectric apparatus on the effect of increased mental activity on the temperature of the head .
These experiments showed that the exercise * Dr. Hammond 's paper was read before the York Neurological October 4 , 1875 .
" " Revue Scientifique September 15 , Dr. J. S. Lombard on [ Mar. 7 .
of the higher intellectual faculties , as well as different emotions , caused a perceptible rise of tempel.ature in the head .
Merely arousing the attention could produce the same result .
These results were published June of Toward the close of the latter year , Professor Moritz Schiff , who had been working independently of any knowledge of what the writer had been doing , communicated to the Museum of Natural History of Florence results of a similar nature .
In Professor Schiff published an account of a series of investigations made directly upon the brain of animals , which decisively proved that mental work is accompanied by elevation of in the brain .
Lastly , M. Broca has likewise arrived at the same conclusion by experiments made , like the writer 's , on the human subject , M. Broca , however , using tbermometers instead of thermo-electric apparatus .
The present investigations wers commenced in January , 1877 , and have been continued almost without interruption to the present time .
The first step to be taken having been decided upon , namely , a thorough examination of the normal relative temperatures of the diflerent portions of the surface of head , the next point to be decided was the manner in which the examination could be best carried on .
Preliminary observations had satisfied the writer that experiments made upon the heads of individuals taken at random could only lead to confusing and contradictory results .
Accordingly , the investigations were limited to a few selected heads , which could be measured and compared , and the different circumstances , both internal and external , affecting which ] , could be pretty well known .
Six subjects , three males and three females , were selected .
The next question was the measurement of the head , and its division into regions , and the subdivision of these regions .
The following method was decided on : the head was divided into three regions , designated respectively , anterior , middle , and posterior .
Anterior The anterior region is bounded laterally by a line drawn upward , on each side of the said , from the angle formed by the frontal and zygomatic processes of the malar bone in a direction parallel to the plano of the forehead , taken over the frontal eminences and superciliary ridges .
The superior boundary is formed by the continuation in the same plane , and junction on the top of the head , of the lateral boundaries .
The inferior boundary is formed by aline passing horizontally across the front of the head on a level with the summits of the supra-orbital arches between the external angular , of the two sides , and * ' ' Ncw Medical Journal June , 1867 , and ' ' Archives de Physiologie September\mdash ; October , 1868 .
' Archives de .
iu , p. 6 , 1870 .
1878 .
] the Temperature of the Head .
1 thence continued by the outer borders of the malar bones to the of origin of the lateral boundaries .
The part of the head embraced by the anterior gion is , that which would be cut off anteriorly by a and vertical section , made parallel to the plane specified , betwee1l the angles formed by the frontal and zygomatic processes of the malar bones of the two sides .
ISIiddle Begion .
The middle region is bounded anteriorly by the lateral and superior boundaries of the anterior region .
The posterior boundary is formed by a lin passing over the top of the head parallel to the anterior boundary , uniting the extremities of the mastoid processes of the two sides .
The inferior boundaries commencing at the terminations of the inferior boundary of the anteriol region , follow the upper borders of the zygomatic processes of the temporal bones , pass behind the ears , and follow the anterior borders of the mastoid processes to their extremities .
Region .
The posterior region has for its superior and lateral boundaries the posterior boundary of the middle region .
The inferior boundary is formed by posterior borders of the mastoid processes and by the superior curved line of the occipital bone .
The longitudinal median line of the head divides each of the three , regions into right and left symmetrical halves .
In the present communication we have only to do with the anteriol region .
The anterior region is thus subdivided:\mdash ; Commencing at the inferior boundary , each lateral half is divided into six parts by five equidistant horizontal lines drawn from the median line to the lateral limit .
The tracts thus marked off are designated tiers , and are numbered from 1 to 6 , commencing at the inferior boundary .
Further in each lateral half four equidistant vertical lines are drawn upward parallel to the median line , from the lower limit to the superior boundary , thus each tier into smaller spaces .
In the first four tiers these spaces are five in number ; but in the fifth and sixth tiers , the convergencc , over the top of the head , of the lateral limits diminishes the length of the tier , and reduces the number of spaces to four in the fifth tier and to in the sixth tier .
These spaces are , and are numbered from 1 to 5 outward from tlJe median line .
The tiers are marked ofl by means of a string coated with coloured chalk .
As the method of measuring off the tiers and districts by cquidistant Dr. J. .
Lombard on [ Mar. 7 , lines does not in every head bring a given space into exactly the anatomIcal position , each case is referred to one head as a standard .
The llowing are the measurements and anatomical positions of the tiers the standard head .
The height of the region measured on the median liue is 125 mm. ( inches ) , therefore , each of the six tiers measures mm. ( inch ) vertically .
The upper boundary of the first tier touches the summits of the superciliary ridges .
The upper boundary of second tier passes through the centre of the frontal eminences .
The upper boundary of the third tier touches the upper border of the frontal eminences .
The upper boundaries of the fourth and fifth tiers have no anatomical landmarks , and their positions be designated only by their respective distances from the superior limit of the region ; this latter touches the coronal suture on the median line , hence the upper boundaries of the fourth and fifth tiers are , respectively , ( inch ) , and ( inch ) distant from the coronal suture on the line .
The following are the measurements of breadth:\mdash ; Total breadth measured on the horizontal portion of the inferior boundary of the region 186 mm. Total breadth measured over middle of frontal eminences 186 mm. inches ) .
Total breadth measured just above frontal eminences 176 mm. inches ) .
Total breadth measured at a distance of mm. ( inch ) from the coronal suture on the median line 120 mm. ( inches ) .
The breadth of each lateral half measured on the inferior boundary line being93 mm. ( inches ) , each of the five districts will measure on this l.ine mm ( inches ) .
We have then 27 spaces a side to examlne , the maximum size of the space being 21 mm. ( inch ) by 19 mm. ( inch ) .
With reference to the instruments employed , both thermometers and thermo-electric apparatns have been used , The writer does not , however , think thermometers reliable in investigations of this kind ; for the reason that they cannot be pushed down firmly eIlou gh upon the surface to empty the superficial vessels .
The piles used by the writer are sel in paraffine in an ebonite casing so as to be at some distance from the edges of the casing , and the whole bottom , \mdash ; faces of piles , paraffine , and ebonite edges , \mdash ; rendered perfectly flush .
Pressure with a pile so constructed empties the superficial vessels , leaving the part pale and bloodless on the removal of the pile .
It is easy with such piles to empty the temporal artery and to test the temperature of parts lying beneath it without the least risk of the temperature of the blood in the artery itself interfering .
The danger of error in experiments such as those of M. Broca , is that the tempera878 .
] th ( Temp rature of ur of the blood of the superficial vessels comes to affect the neter , as wcll as the temperature of the deepcr seated parts .
Sir W. 's galvanometer , and one devised by the limself , ] ready described several years ago , were employed .
* heostat and keys also been described in 1868 .
We will now proceed to examine the different spaces of the anterio ] .
egion .
si .
calily situated spaces of the of the obscrvotio on each of syaces .
The first fact of importance demonstrated by this examination is , chat in no one of th ' spaces which the anterior regio is subdivided the uniformly her on one side than the other : on the jontrar it ?
be on side or the side in turn .
have , therefore , to consider only on which side of the head in the najority of the higher temperature is found in a given pair of paces .
The following is the general distribution of temperature:\mdash ; In favour of Left si le .
1st er .
Districts\mdash ; lst , 2nd , 3rd .
2nd , , 1st , 2nd , 3rd .
.3rd , , 1st , 2nd , 3rd .
ls , 5th .
, .5th .
, 4th , 4th , , 1st , 2nd , , 4th , 5th .
5th , , 1st , , 3rd , 4th .
6th Tier .
, , 1st , 2nd , Thus in the 27 spaces a side compared , the relative tempe ] is higher on the right side than on the left in 18 spaces , or twohirds of the number .
Next , taking total number of observations , , and ' ' iJish ledical Journal " " de \ldquo ; , 1868 .
VOL. XXVII .
172 Dr. J. S. Lombard on [ Mar. 7 , cases of equality of temperature , to be presently considered , the following is the apportionment of the remaining 2480 results:\mdash ; In favour of right side . .
- . . . . . . .
1343 left , , . . . . . . . . .
1137 Hence the percentages of times of occurrence of relative superiority of temperature for the right and left sides respecti vely are and .
But in the nine spaces in which the left side has the majority of cases of higher temperatare , this majority is greater than the ma .
jority found in the eighteen spaces in which the right side has the higher average : thus , in the nine spaces specified , the left side shows a mean percentage of cases of superiority of temperature ; while in the eighteen spaces in which the right side predominates the mean percentage of cases of superiority of temperature is ; that is to say , those spaces which , on an average , are higher in temperature on the left side are more exclusively so than those which , on an erage , are higher in temperature on the right side .
Next , as regards equality of temperature of the two sides , the following are the spaces in which equality of temperature is most frequently found : \mdash ; 1st Tier .
Districts\mdash ; lst , 2nd , Srd .
2 Tier .
, , 3rd , 4th .
3rd Tier .
, , 1st , 2nd , 3rd , 4th .
Tier .
, , 1st , 2nd , 3rd , 4th .
5th Tier .
1st , 2nd , 3rd , 4th .
Thus equality of temperature of the two sides is found in 16 spaces , or in per cent. of the whole number of spaces .
Of the total umber of observations , 2 , 700 , , or per cent. show ality of tcmperature .
Taking the total number of observations we have the following of times of occurrence of superiority of tempel'ature on the side , on the left sidc , and of equality of peratu : Right side . . . . . .
per cent. Left , , - . . . . .
Equality . . . . . .
878 .
] the of th Ilead .
The five hest percent in favour of sidc ibuted as follows : 5th District of 2nd Tier , , , , 3rd , , , , , , , , , 6th per , -71 \ldquo ; The five highest percentages in favour of the left side arc : 1st of 1st Tier 2nd , , , , 1st 1st , , .
, , , , , , , , , 3rd per cent. . .
: The five hesb p of equality of ributed as follows : 4th District of 2nd Tier 1st , , , , 3rd 2nd , , .
, .3rd , , 4th 3rd , , , , per ccnt .
-22 -24 -30 , Thefollowing shows the distribution of temp t in two commoll rence , the one with increase in extCllt of the of uperior temperature on the side , and other with case 1 xtent of the tract of superior tempcl.ature on tho lcft sidc .
Thesct from the general order of oftcli persist for * Increase of t ) act of Tright of ) tnrc .
In favour of Lcft side .
siclc .
1st Ticr\mdash ; lst , ) ] ) , , 4th , 5th .
, 2nd , and part of of ) 4th 1st , , 4th , , 4th , Dr. J. S. Lombard on [ Mar. 7 lncreose of traci of Left Superiority of Jn favour of Left side .
side . .
Districts .
Ticr\mdash ; lst , , 3rd , 4th , 5th .
nd Ticr\mdash ; lst , 2nd , 3rd , 4th , 3 .
rd Tier\mdash ; lst , 2nd , Srd , 4th , 5th .
Tier\mdash ; ] , 2nd , 3rd .
4th , 5th .
5th Tier\mdash ; parts of 1st , , parts of 1st , 2nd , 3rd ; 4th , 5th .
Tier\mdash ; 1st , 2nd , ) , 4th , 5th .
Before leaving this part of the subject it may be well to state thal the situ tion of M. 's " " frontal\ldquo ; thermometer seems to been in the neighbourhood of 5th district , 1st tier , so far as the write1 can from the ) of M. Broca 's paper , which has come under his ( the writer 's ) notice .
Now , for this space , the writer 's results are , 68 in favour of the side , and 32 in favour of the left side ; but immediately adjoining is the 1st district 1st tier of the writer 's micTdle , and , in the space specified , the figures aro 30 , 60 left , and 10 neutra ] .
M. Broca 's thermometer may have been in this space .
The examination of the ddle does not cnter into this communication , and ahove remarks are made rincipally to show within what narrow limits the balance of superiority of tempCrature may shift from o1le side to another .
titative comparisons of two sides .
The following is a sum ) of the mean resuIts ofl00 examinations of each pair of symmetrically situated spaces .
The mean differeIlce of Dmperabure is pretty the same for both sides of head ; thus , the mean difference of temperature for eighteen spaccs which are , on an average , of higher temperature the side than on the left , is C. ; while the rence of for nine spaces which are of on the left side than on the right , is C. The reatest difference noted is in the 3rd district , 3rd , left hicle , nnmely , C. ; the smallest differences noted are in 1st district , 4th and 5th , and in the 2nd district , tier , all ' side , differences being C. The extreme rnnge of difference of temperature is therefore C. The mean differemce of temperature of all the observations taken together , of sides , is C. of on one and the same side of Head .
Comparison of spaces bituated in the same district of { cljoining tiers\mdash ; 50 observations on each pair of spaces .
S76 .
] the perature of the The ving is a summary of the principal results , 1st .
The whole of the 2nd tier is , in the majority of cases , of )mperature than the 1st tier , om both sides of the head ; with the reeption , that on both sides , the 1st district is generally of Jmperarure in the 1st tier than in the 2nd tier .
2nd .
The ] of the 2nd tier is , in the majority of cases , of amperature than the 3rd tier , on both sides of the head ; but ajority is much less than that possessed by the tier over 1st er .
.3rd .
whole of the third tier , iu the majolity of cases , of igher temperature than the 4th tier , on both sides the head .
4th .
The whole of the 4th tier is , in the ority of lses , of emperature thau the 5th tier , on both sides of the head .
5th .
The whole of the 6th tier is , in the majority of CtLses , of than the 5th tier , on both sides of the head .
The mean quantitative resuIts are as follows : sb district , 1st tier , supelior in ture to 1st district , 2nd tier , by C. . .
C. .
lemainder of 2nd tier , superior to 1st tier , by C. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C. tier , superior to 3rd tier , C. , ) C. tier , superior t tier , .
C. tier , superior to 5th tier , C. C. tier , superior to 5th tier , by C. C. It will be seen from the above ures , that the difference between paces of .
tiers on one and the same side of the head is great as the difference between symmetrically sit ted spaces he two sides .
The order in the tiers come , as ) , is as follows : 2nd tier\mdash ; 3rd tier\mdash ; lst tier\mdash ; 4th ticr ; this o ) lolding good for both sides of the head .
Comparison of spaces uated in two districts of tier , 50 observations on each pair of spaces .
The following is a summary of the principal results:\mdash ; 1st .
The 1st district is of temperature ) tho ) district , the ) jority of cases , in the 1st and tiers , on ) sidc ' the lead . .
The district is of tempeluture tLan the 1st , in najority of cases , in the , 3rd , 4th , and 6th , on ) sides of hcad .
3rd .
The 3rd district is of higher temperatnrc than the the majority of cases , in every tier , ou both of the 176 On the Temperature of the Head .
[ Mar. 7 , .
The 4th district is of higher temperature than the 3rd district in the majority of cases , in every tier , on both sides of the head .
5th .
The 4th district is of higher temperature than the 5th in majority of cases , in the 1st tier , left side ; in the 2nd and 3rd tiers , side ; and in the 4th iier , on both sides of the head .
6th .
The 5th district is of temperature than the 4th district , in the majority of cases , in the 1st tier , side ; and in the and , '3rd tiers , left side .
The mean quantitative results are as follows:\mdash ; Lcft side .
1st district superior in temperature to 2nd by C. F. C. district superior to 2nd district by . .
C. district supel'ior to 3rd by .ll4oC .
C. 4th district crior to 5th district by .
C. the above it can be seen that the mean difference veen districts is much less than thab existing vecn tiers .
The order in which the districts come , as their mpcratures , is as follows:\mdash ; district , district , Srd distriot , 1st district , 2nd district ; this order ' good for both sides of the head .
Lastly , if we take the three groups of examinations , namely , those on the comparfttive temperature of two sides of the head : those on the ative temperature of .
tiers on one and the same side ; and those on the comparative ture of adjoining districts on one and the same side , we have the following values:\mdash ; of sides of the .
of times of difference of occurrence of of temperature temperature of either side of the head over the other . . . . . .
\mdash ; C. of tiers of ) slde .
of times of difference of OCCUl'rence of superiority of ture tompernture of one tier over another on both sides taken { ogether . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; C. 1878 .
] On the Transformation of Elliptic Functions .
of of and the same side .
percentage of times of difference of occurrencc of superiority of temperature teml)erature of one district over another on both sides taken . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; C. .
to above figures , superiority of temperature of it given side of the hcad over the other , is a little less frequent of occurrence than superiority of temperature of a glven tier or district of one and the same side over another tier or district .
The sides of head are rarely equal in temperature , but the balance of superiority shifts so frequently one side to the other , that the of superiority for either side , in a given number of ations , is comparatively small .
III .
Addition to .
on the Transformation of ctions.\ldquo ; By A. , F.R.S. , Profcssor ) Pure hematics i the Ulliversity of , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) I ve recently succeeded in .
a theory considered ltly ' ' Memoir on the Transformation of iptic lions , " " Phil. ( 1874 ) , pp. , that of the septic transformation , have here a solution of ' here ; and the ratios , and cquation are detcrmined by the cquations , ; is the same first ion m ) replaced by ) ' and then , , o incro , the three

