1895 .
] The Measurement of High Potential Although the probable error of this result barely reaches the milligrams , it will be most correct to assume that the true value lies between the limits from 999"85 to 999"82 grams , because the method of hydrostatical weighings hitherto used does not guarantee complete absence of air bubbles , but the coincidence between the results of Kupffei and Chaney gives assurance that the probable weight is not larger than 999 85 grams , but possibly a little smaller , about 999-84 Accepting the above-mentioned value , 999'847 , we have : \#151 ; Temperature on the hydrogen thermometer scale .
" Weight of water in vacuo* Of a cubic decimetre , in grams .
Of a cubic inch in English grains .
Of a cubic inch in Russian dolias .
c. F. 0 ' 32 -0 ' 999 -716 252-821 368 -686 4 39 -2 999 -847 252 -854 368 -734 15 59-0 998 -979 252 635 368 -411 16f 62 -0 998-715 252-568 368316 20 68-0 998 -082 252 -407 368 x83 Until newer and more accurate investigations upon the expansion of water and its weight in a given volume shall have been carried out , the results discussed must be considered as more accurate than those hitherto published .
IV .
" The Measurement of High Potential Difference .
" By H. C. Leake , R. Leventhorpe , M.A. , and C. S. Whitehead , M.A. Communicated by Professor W. E. Ayrton .
Received October 29 , 1895 .
( Abstract .
) In Part I the question of the measurement of high potential difference in terms of the absolute electromagnetic unit is considered , more especially with reference to the calibration of electrostatic voltmeters .
* In this no account is taken of the compressibility of water , that is to say , it is supposed that the water is under a pressure of 1 atmosphere ; but as from this at t ' C. ( from 0 ' to 30 ' ) the volume decreases approximately by 50 \#151 ; 0 '22t millionths parts , we have in real vacuo , at 0 ' , the weight of a cubic decimetre equal to 999 666 grams , at 20 ' about 998 036 .
Therefore , the weight of a cubic decimetre of water reaches 1000 grams under a pressure of 4 atmospheres , but in vacuo at all temperatures the weight of water is less than a kilogram .
M 2 156 Messrs. Leake , Leventliorpe , and Whitehead .
[ Dee .
5 , After describing Lord Kelvin 's method of multiplying a comparatively small known potential difference by means of a series of condensers , a full account is given of the method adopted by Professor Ayrton and Mr. T. Mather for the calibration of their electrostatic voltmeters .
The apparatus is arranged for the determination of alternating potential differences up to several thousand volts , either by measurement of the current passing through a non-inductive manganin resistance of about 20,000 ohms , or by comparison with the steady potential difference of the Clark standard cell , in a way that does not involve any measurements of resistance .
A full description is given of the apparatus employed , and the methods of using it .
It is probable that the measurements made in this way of potential differences of about 2000 volts are correct to about Tx^ per cent , in absolute units .
In Part II the authors discuss the measurement of high potential difference in terms of the absolute electrostatic unit by means of the Kelvin absolute electrometer .
With the object of determining the degree of accuracy in the indications of this instrument , a sensitive Ayrton-Mather electrostatic voltmeter was calibrated both in electrostatic and in electromagnetic units , in the former unit by the absolute electrometer , and in the latter unit by the method described in Part I. A comparison of these two calibration curves yielded values for the ratio of the electrostatic unit to the electroma gnetic unit of potential difference ; and , by comparing these values with the mean of recent independent researches on the ratio of the units ( 2'998 x 1010 cm .
per second ) , an approximate idea could be formed as to the accuracy of the measurements made by the absolute electrometer .
By experiments such as this it was found that the results given by the absolute electrometer were always too large by an average error of 1^ per cent. An experiment made on the coach-springs , with all electrical effects eliminated , showed that the cause of this error lay in a gradual alteration in the strength of the springs during the electrometer measurements .
The main part of this alteration in strength was due to the gradual yield on loading the springs , and , in a long series of experiments made subsequently , this difficulty was overcome by keeping the springs constantly loaded ( except during actual use ) with the weights required for the measurements .
, The remaining part of the alteration in strength was due to change in the temperature of the coach-springs , and the error thus caused is of importance if maximum accuracy is essential .
Three methods are enumerated by which this temperature error can be overcome , the first of which was not , at that time , tried because it would have involved considerable structural alteration to the instrument .
The second method , which consists in enclosing the whole instrument in a non-conducting case to minimise the rate of change of temperature , was tried , but was not found to be sufficiently 1895 .
] The Measurement of High Potential Difference .
157 effective .
Finally a method was devised by which a proper temperature correction could be easily calculated without necessitating any additional readings , and which has the great advantage that the coach-springs themselves are virtually used as a metallic theynometer to indicate their own temperature , and this method of correction was found to be quite satisfactory .
The greatest value of this temperature correction in a large number of subsequent measurements of potential difference was found to be ^ per cent. A description is next given of a lengthy series of experiments to determine values for " v " ( the ratio of the units ) in order to test the accuracy of the electrometer when employed according to the authors ' method .
The results show that the valties of " v " in each experiment form a very consistent set among themselves , but that the sets taken on different days do not always agree with one another , on some days the mean value obtained for " w " being about 2'999 x 1010 , while on other days it was about 2'985 x 1010 .
The explanation of this is that the electrometer was on some days measuring quite correctly in absolute units , in so far as we were able to judge , while on other days its measurements were almost uniformly too high by about \ per cent. This result tends to show that in the instrument used by the authors there is some defect , probably of a mechanical nature , which causes an intermittent error of such a nature that , when it occurs , it is almost always approximately the same in magnitude .
The authors spent some time trying to detect the cause of this error , which appeared to be inherent , at any rate in this specimen , of the absolute electrometer , but they failed to arrive at a satisfactory explanation .
By employing the various precautions adopted by the authors , the mean of a number of measurements of a potential difference made with this absolute electrometer , in the way described in the paper , may be relied on as being correct , certainly to within ^ per cent , in absolute electrostatic units , if 2'998 X 1010 is the true value of " v. " On the days that the special error , already referred to , did not exist , the measurements were correct to about ^ per cent. Part II concludes with a description of some alterations , suggested by the authors ' experiments , which will be carried out in the instrument with which these experiments were made .
In Appendix I are theoretically investigated the most suitable values of the mass to be used for the initial adjustment of the springs , and of the potential difference to which the electrometer jar is to be charged , for the measurement of a given potential difference in the heterostatic method .
The results show that , in order that the probable error shall be as small as possible , the potential difference of the electrometer jar should be proportional to the potential difference to be measured , and the mass should be proportional to the -S--power ot 15$ Presents .
[ Dec. 5 , the potential difference to be measured .
The general working of the intrnment is also considered , and numerical results and curves are given for the electrometer used by the authors .
In Appendix II is considered the question of the redaction of the readings to absolute measure , or , in other words , the calculation of the effective area of the attracted disk .
Starting from an expression given by Professor J. J. Thomson , a formula is deduced for the effective area of the disk when in the plane of the guard-ring , which is probably more accurate than that given by Maxwell .
It is then shown that , in addition to the well-known advantages of the heterostatic over the idiostatic method of measurement , there is the additional advantage that the error in the ordinary assumption as to the value of the effective area is of far less importance in the former than in the latter method .
Finally an investigation is given in which Schwarz 's method is applied to determine the error in the ordinary assumption as to the value of the effective area for the case w'hen the disk and guard-rihg are not quite in the same plane .
V. " Variations in the Electromotive Force of Clark Cells with Temperature .
" By W. E. Ayrton , F.R.S. , and W. R. Cooper , M.A. , B.Sc. Received October 29 , 1895 .
[ Publication deferred .
] Presents , December 5 , 1895 .
Transactions .
Baltimore:\#151 ; Johns Hopkins University .
Circulars .
Yol .
XY .
Ho. 121 .
4to .
Baltimore 1895 .
The University .
Batavia:\#151 ; Koninkl .
Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch-Indie .
Natuurkundig Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch-Indie .
Deel LIY .
8vo .
Batavia1895 .
The Society .
Boston :\#151 ; American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
Proceedings .
Yol .
XXX .
8vo .
Boston 1895 .
The Academy .
Kew:\#151 ; Royal Cardens .
Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information .
1895 .
Appendices 2 , 3 .
8vo .
London .
The Director .
London:\#151 ; British Astronomical Association .
Journal .
Yol .
VI .
No. 1 .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Association .
Clinical Society .
Transactions .
Yol .
XXVIII .
8vo .
London 1895 .
The Society .
Geologists ' Association .
Proceedings .
Part XIY .
Part 5 .
8vo-London 1895 .
The Association .

