A paper was read , entitled " Description of a Mountain Baro ?
meter , the column of which is divisible into two portions for safer and more convenient transport .
" By Mr. Thomas Charles Robinson .
Communicated by Captain Henry Kater , F.R.S. The object of the contrivance described in this paper is to reduce the length of the barometer , when not in use , to one-half the usual length ; and to render the position in which itmay be carried indifferent .
It consists of a glass tube eighteen inches long , cemented into a steel cistern two inches long , and one inch internal diameter , which is furnished with an internal screw , for receiving a hardened steel screw and hemisphere cemented to the end of a syphon tube .
The long leg of this tube has an internal diameter of only the six or eight hundredths of an inch , and it is further con ?
tracted at the end to the twenty-fifth of an inch , so that no air can pass when the mercury is descending through it .
The shorter leg of the syphon has the same bore as the tube .
When the two parts are screwed together , and the whole invert ?
ed , the mercury descends from the cistern , fills the long leg of the syphon , and ascends to a certain height in the shorter leg .
Any air that may have existed in that part of the cistern which was not occupied by the mercury , is collected in an intermediate space , ex ?
ternal to the column of mercury , and therefore can have no influence on the total height of that column , which is determined solely by the pressure of the external atmosphere .
On gently reversing the position of the barometer , the mercury will repass from the syphon into the cistern , where it is confined by a stopper , as in a bottle : and may then be carried about in any position in perfect security .
The reading of a paper , entitled " An Account of further Expe ?
riments tried at Chatham , for the purpose of obtaining an artificial Water Cement , " by Brevet-Colonel C. W , Pasley , of the Corps of Royal Engineers , F.R.S. and Honorary Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers , was commenced .

