A paper was also read , entitled , " Experimental Researches in Electricity . ?
Fourth Series .
" By Michael Faraday , Esq. , D.C.L. , F.R.S. , Fuilerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution of Great Britain .
The author , w'hile prosecuting his researches on electro-chemical decomposition , observed some phenomena which appeared to be refer ?
able to a general law of electric conduction not hitherto recognised .
He found that an electric current from a voltaic battery , which is readily conducted by water , did not pass through ice : even the thinnest film of ice , interposed in the circuit , was sufficient to intercept all electric influence of such low intensities as that produced by the voltaic apparatus , although it allows of the transmission of electricity of such high intensity as that excited by the common electrical machine .
The author ascertained that a great number of other substances , which are solid at ordinary temperatures , do not conduct the electric current from the voltaic battery until they are liquefied .
Among these are potassa , protoxide of lead , glass of antimony , and oxide of bismuth ; various chlorides , iodides , and sulphurets ; and also many of the ordinary neutral salts with alkaline bases .
In almost every instance the bodies subjected to this law are decomposable by electricity ; and their decomposition can be effected only when they are in a fluid state , and while they are conductors of electricity .
The author inquires how far these two properties are connected together , or dependent the one upon the other ; but finds that several exceptions occur to any general proposition that he attempted to establish on this subject .
The general conclusions to which he is led from the experiments detailed in this paper are the following : ?
First , that all bodies conduct electricity in the same manner , but in very different degrees ; ?
Secondly , that in some the conducting power is powerfully increased by heat , in others diminished , and this without any difference that has yet been discovered , either in the general nature of the substance , or of the influence of electricity upon it ; ?Thirdly , that there is a numerous class of bodies which , when solid , insulate electricity , and , when fluid , conduct it freely , and are decomposed by it ; yet that there are many fluid bodies which do not sensibly conduct electricity of low intensity ; and some that conduct it , and are not decomposed ; ?and , Lastly , that fluidity is not essential to decomposition .
Sul ?
phuret of silver is the only body yet known to be capable of insulating a voltaic current when solid , and of conducting it , without decomposition , when fluid .
No distinction can as yet be drawn between the conducting powers of bodies supposed to be elementary and those known to be compounds .

