XXI .
BAKERIAN LECTURE.- " On the Continuity of the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter .
" By THOMAS ANDREWS , M.D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. Received June 14 , 1869 .
( Abstract .
) In 1863 the author announced , in a communication which Dr. Miller had the kindness to publish in the third edition of his ' Chemical Physics , ' that on partially liquefying carbonic acid by pressure , and gradually raising at the same time the temperature to about 88 ?
Fahr. , the surface of de[Jurne 17 , 4 marcation between the liquid and gas became fainter , lost its curvature , and at last disappeared , the tube being then filled with a fluid which , from its optical and other properties , appeared to be perfectly homogeneous .
The present paper contains the results of an investigation of this subject , which has occupied the author for several years .
The temperature at which carbonic acid ceases to liquefy by pressure he designates the critical point , and he finds it to be 30 ?
'92 C. Although liquefaction does not occur at temperatures a little above this point , a very great change of density is produced by slight alterations of pressure , and the flickering movements , also described in 1863 , come conspicuously into view .
In this communication , the combined effects of heat and pressure upon carbonic acid at temperatures varying from 13 ?
C. to 48 ?
C. , and at pressures ranging from 48 to 109 atmospheres , are fully examined .
Atl3 ?
'l C. , and under a pressure , as indicated approximately by the air manometer , of 48'89 atmospheres , carbonic acid , now just on the point of liquefying , is reduced to -4.of the volume it occupied under one atmosphere .
A slight increase of pressure , amounting to 9of an atmosphere , which has to be applied to condense the first half of the liquid , is shown to arise from the presence of a trace of air ( -Titi part ) in the carbonic acid .
After liquefaction , the volume of the carbonic acid , already reduced to about Tiof its original volume , continues to diminish as the pressure augments , and at a much greater rate than in the case of ordinary liquids .
Similar results were obtained at the temperature of 21 ?
'5 .
A third series of experiments was made at 31 ?
-1 , or 0 ?
'2 above the critical point .
In this case the volume of the carbonic acid diminished steadily with the pressure , till about 74 atmospheres were attained .
After this , a rapid but not ( as in the case of liquefaction ) abrupt fall occurred , and the volume was diminished to one-half by an additional pressure of less than two atmospheres .
Under a pressure of 75'4 atmospheres , the carbonic acid was reduced to ---T of its original volume under one atmosphere .
Beyond this point it yielded very slowly to pressure .
During the stage of rapid contraction there was no evidence at any time of liquefaction having occurred , or of two conditions of matter being present in the tube .
Two other series of experiments were made , one at 32 ?
'5 , the other at 350 ?
5 , with the same general results , except that the rapid fall became less marked as the temperature was higher .
The experiments at 35 ?
.5 were carried as far as 107 atmospheres , at which pressure the volume of carbonic acid was almost the same as that which it should have occupied if it had been derived directly from liquid carbonic acid , according to the law of the expansion of that body for heat .
The last series of experiments was made at 48 ' 1 , and extended from 62*6 to 109'4 atmospheres of pressure .
The results are very interesting , inasmuch as the rapid fall exhibited at lower temperatures has almost , if not altogether , disappeared , and the curve representing the changes of volume approximates closely to that of a gas following the law of Mariotte .
The diminution of volume is at the same time much greater than if that law held good .
The results just described are represented in a graphical form in the figure given below .
Equal volumes of air and carbonic acid , measured at 0 ?
C. and 760 millimetres , when compressed at the temperatures marked on each curve , undergo the changes of volume indicated by the form of the curve .
The figures at the top and bottom indicate the approximate pres[June 17 , 44 sures in atmospheres ; the volumes of the gas and air are measured upwards from the dotted horizontal line .
The author has exposed carbonic acid , without making precise measurements , to higher pressures than any of those mentioned , and has made it pass , without breach of continuity , from what is universally regarded as the gaseous to what is , in like manner , universally regarded as the liquid state .
As a direct result of his experiments , he concludes that the gaseous and liquid states are only widely separated forms of the same condition of matter , and may be made to pass into one another by a series of gradations so gentle that the passage shall nowhere present any interruption or breach of continuity .
From carbonic acid as a perfect gas , to carbonic acid as a perfect liquid , the transition may be accomplished by a continuous process , and the gas and liquid are only distant stages of a long series of continuous physical changes .
Under certain conditions of temperature and pressure , carbonic acid finds itself , it is true , in a state of instability , and suddenly passes , without change of pressure or temperature , but with the evolution of heat , to the condition which , by the continuous process , can only be reached by a long and circuitous route .
The author discusses the question , as to what is the condition or state of carbonic acid , when it passes at temperatures above 31 ?
from the ordinary gaseous state down to the volume of the liquid , without giving any evidence during the process of the occurrence of liquefaction , and arrives at the conclusion that the answer to this question is to be found in the intimate relations which subsist between the gaseous and liquid states of matter .
In the abrupt change which occurs when the gases are compressed to a certain volume at temperatures below the critical point , molecular forces are brought into play , which produce a sudden change of volume , and during this process it is easy to distinguish , by optical characters , the carbonic acid which has collapsed from that which has not changed its volume .
But when the same change is effected by the continuous process , the carbonic acid passes through conditions which lie between the ordinary gaseous and ordinary liquid states , and which we have no valid grounds for referring to the one state rather than to the other .
Nitrous oxide , hydrochloric acid , ammonia , sulphuric ether , sulphuret of carbon , all exhibited critical points when exposed under pressure to the required temperatures .
The author proposes for the present arbitrary distinction between vapours and gases , to confine the term vapour to gaseous bodies at temperatures below their critical points , and which therefore can be liquefied by pressure , so that gas and liquid may exist in the same vessel in presence of one another .
The possible continuity of the liquid and solid states is referred to as a problem of far greater difficulty than that which forms the subject of this communication , and as one which cannot be resolved without careful investigation .
1869 .
] 45

