1893 .
] On the Cortex Cerebri in the Monkey % III .
" A Further Minute Analysis by Electric Stimulation of the so-called Motor Region ( Facial Area ) of the Cortex Cerebri in the Monkey ( Macacus sinicu ) .
" By Charles E. Beevor , M.D. , F.R.C.P. , and Victor Horsley , M.B. , F.R.C.S. , F.R.S. Received March 22 , 1893.* ( From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution , and from the Pathological Department of University College , London .
) ( Abstract .
) In the paper of which this is an abstract the authors have completed the minute analysis of the movements elicited by excitation of the excitable ( so-called motor ) region of the cortex cerebri in the Bonnet Monkey ( Macacus sinicus ) .
The portions hitherto examined having been those in which the movements of the limbs were represented , the facial area was chosen for the present research .
After an historical introduction and a description of the anatomy of the region investigated , the method of notation and record of results is discussed .
Considering that in this part of the cortex cerebri there is well-defined representation of movements of both sides of the body , the question of bilaterality of representation is raised , and attention directed to its importance .
The analysis of the results obtained showed that there existed precise localisation for the movements of the individual portions of the face , even to that of half the lower lip .
The specialisation of the movements of the tongue was rendered easy of examination by employing the operative device of dividing the tongue in the middle line .
This shed .
unexpected light on the representation of the .
movements of this organ .
Movements of the pharynx were made the subject of observation , and some degree of unilaterality was discovered in the movements of the soft palate .
Finally , attention is drawn to the fact that the marches of movements in succession are in this region very inconstant and difficult to arrange .
* The expenses of this research were defrayed principally by a grant from the Government Grant Fund of the Royal Society , and in part by a grant from the Scientific Grants Committee of the British Medical Association .

