456 Mr. W. P. Sladen on Astrophiura permira .
[ June 20 , early differentiated into the two groups of Apneumatocoela and Pneu-matocoela , the former being the root-stock of the modem Elasmo-branchii , while the latter , by acquiring rudimentary and more or less functional lungs , became the primitive double-breathers from which have been dei'ived the Ganoidei and the Amphibia .
Prom the primi-tive Ganoidei were derived the Teleosteoid Ganoids and eventually the Teleostei also , their originally complex swim-bladders becoming gradually devoted to other functions , while the Selachoidei may be regarded as the but little modified descendants of the original progenitors of the order .
The close correspondence that exists between and the Selachii is not incompatible with these views , but may be the result of the persistence in both of structures originally possessed by their primitive ancestor .
Two facts in the cranial anatomy of Polyodon are not easy to explain , viz. , the formation of the upper jaw and the existence of the " orbitar process .
" The union of the pterygoid processes in a median symphysis may have been the primitive condition of the jaws in the ancestral form ( ) , but that while persistent in Polyodon and in the Selachii , it was superseded by a different arrangement , viz. , the union of the pterygoid processes with retral palatine outgrowths in most Ganoidei , and in all Teleostei and Amphibia .
Neither is it easy to account for the retention of the " orbitar process .
" It may have been an adaptive modification correlated with a suctorial mouth in the larval or adult forms of those Ganoids that were first differentiated from the Amphibian stem , and independently developed ; or it may have been possessed by , and similarly functioned in , the primitive Pneumatocoela , but has become obsolete in all their descendants , except Polyodon and the Anura .
Thus it would appear that the Polyodontidae constitute a remarkably central group .
They retain not a few of the characters which we may assume to have belonged to the primitive stock out of which were evolved the three most important groups of Ichthyopsida , combined , however , with a certain amount of specialization ; nor are they altogether without indications of retrogression .
V. " On Astrophiura permira , an Echinoderm-form intermediate between Ophiuroidea and Asteroidea .
" By W. Percy Sladen , F.L.S. , F.G.S. Communicated by Professor Duncan , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The following peculiarities of structure presented by the anatomy of the echinoderm above described are noteworthy:\#151 ; 1 .
The combination of ophiuroid disk- and arm-structure within a pentagonal asteroid form of body .
1878 .
] On the Temperature of the Head .
457 2 .
The asteroid character of the ambulacral system : the divisional plates not only being homologous with , but resembling in the manner of their disposition the ambulacral plates of Asteroidea ; at the same time furnishing a highly suggestive representation of their phylogenetic development .
3 .
The rudimentary structure of the mouth-armature , more asteroid than ophiuroid in general facies .
Absence of teeth , jaw-plates , and jaws .
4 .
Extension of the peritoneal cavity to the extremity of the functional portion of the rays , that is to say , to the margin of the pentagonal body .
5 .
The extremely rudimentary condition and aborted character of that portion of the brachial series which is prolonged beyond the body-disk .
6 .
The continuity of the tentacular pore-system limited to the disk only .
The above characters are clearly sufficient to stamp the peculiarity of this extraordinary echinoderm , and , whilst excluding it from any known group of genera by their remarkable nature and by the aberrant departure they present from all previous types , are such as would seem to necessitate the relegation of the form to a family apart by itself .
To speak definitely as to the exact position of intermediacy which the organism holds between the Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea would obviously be premature , without a more detailed examination of the internal anatomy than the present specimen in its dry condition will permit , as well as some knowledge of the life-history of the form .
It may however be safely affirmed without overstepping the bounds of due caution , that Astrophiura bridges further over , from the ophiuroid side , the differences which have separated the two orders , than any previously described starfish or brittle-star .
VI .
" Experimental Researches on the Temperature of the Head .
" Part II , III , IV .
By J. S. Lombard , M.D. , formerly Assistant Professor of Physiology in Harvard University , U.S. Communicated by H. Charlton Bastian , M.D. , F.R.S. , Professor of Pathological Anatomy in University College , London .
Received June 18 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) Part II.\#151 ; Examination of the Middle Region of the Head .
This region is divided on each side into 7 tiers by 6 equidistant lines drawn parallel to the longitudinal median line .
The tiers are VOL. XXVII .
2 H

