An Account of some Books .
I. A Discourse touching the ORIGINAL OF HUMAN LITERATURE , both PHILOLOGY and PHILOSOPHY ; in two Parts : By Theoph .
Gale M. A. Oxford , 1669 .
and 1671 .
in 4~ .
The Business of this Book is , to derive Human Arts and Sciences from the Jewish Church ; for the doing of which the Author professes he hath been encouraged by considerable hints and assistances of the Scaligers , and of Grotius , Vossius , Bochartus , Selden , Usher , Preston , and others , besides the concurrent restimonies of many of the Ancients .
In the First part he endeavours to prove , that all Languages have their origin and rise from the Hebrew ; instancing particularly in the Oriental Tongues , as the Phenician , Copthic , Chaldaic , Syriac , Arabic , Persian , Samaritan and Ethiopic ; and then in the European , especially the Greek , Latin , the old Gallic and Brittannic .
To which he adds a deduction , importing , that the Pagan Theology , Physic , Politicks , Poesy , History , Rhetoric , are traduced from Sacred Names , Persons , Rites and Records ; and showing withal , How the Jewish Traditions came to be corrupted and mistaken by Pagans .
In the Second part he makes it his business to evince , that Philosophy also hath its Original from the Jewish Church ; beginning to show this of the Barbaric Philosophy , under which he comprehends the Egyptian , Phenician , Chaldean , Persian , Indian , Ethiopic , Scythian , and Britannic ; and thence proceeding to the Grecian , and chiefly to the Ionic , and Italic or Pythagorean ; where he shows great reading and learning , whil'st he deduceth this doctrine of Judaic Origin from the Testimonies of Heathen , Jewish , and Christian , both Ancient and Modern , Authors ; passing through all the particular Sects of Philosophers with great solicitude and industry ; and promising at the end of this Work , that he is willing to undertake another Treatise , to show both the Mischief of Vain , and the Usefulness of Sound Philosophy to Christian Religion , if this Historical Account , delivered in these two Parts , ( and mainly designed in Order thereunto ) find any such reception , as may give encouragement to such Labours .
II .
Joh. Joachimi Becheri Spirensis Med. Doct. EXPERIMENTUM CHYMICUM NOVUM , quo Artificialis &amp; Instantanea Metallorum Generatio &amp; Transmutatio ad oculum demonstratur .
Francofurti , A. 1671 .
in 8~ .
This Tract was written by the Author as a Supplement to his Physica Subterranea , likewise printed at Frankford , about two years since , though yet but in part , there being hitherto extant only the first Book of the two , of which it is to consist : which First part ( to give some account of it on this occasion ) undertaketh to explain both the abstruse Generation of Subterraneous things , and the admirable Fabric of the Super-terraneous and Subterraneous complex Globe of Earth , Air and Water : Promising to deliver hereafter in the Second Book , the particular Nature of under-ground Bodies , and withal to teach the Resolution of them into parts and the proprieties of those parts ; together with an Appendix that shall contain a great number of Chemical Mixtures , never seen before , and grounded upon numerous Experiments .
We cannot forbear giving the Reader , of that great variety of matter and Trials , contained in the said First Book , one very considerable Experiment , said to have been actually made by the Author himself , and which seems worth repeating for further observation and improvement .
It is in short this , as it may be found p. 170 , 171 .
Physicae Subterraneae .
Having a mind , for a certain end , to melt a Jasper , he saith , he put it into a crucible , and actually melted it by an intense fire , and some other requisites necessary to the operation .
But to the end that no coals might fall into the past , he covered and luted the crucible , which was about half filled with Jasper-stone : which being now melted , he opened the crucible when cool , and , to his great wonder , found at the bottom the Jasper melted together into one Mass , as hard as before , but Milk-white and half opaque , resembling a natural White Agate ; but the cover , and the upper parts of the crucible , that were un-fill 'd , and could not be touched by the Jasper in the melting , were tinged with the natural colour of the Jasper ; insomuch that if there had been the hardness of a Jasper and the colour not superficial only , the fragments of the crucible might have been sold for the best and most polished Jasper , having here and there greenish streaks and specks , the rest being red and yellowish ; all so beautiful , that a good Painter would scarce have been able to imitate those various colours .
Of this , the Author saith , he keeps still the pieces in his Laboratory at Munchen in Bavaria , as a very extraordinary treasure ; esteeming that those upper parts were tinged by the anima of the Jasper , driven up by the force of the fire from its inferior part , and adhering to the body of the crucible .
Having thus related this uncommon experiment , we shall proceed to say something of the Contents of this Supp ement , which occasioned that relation .
It seems then , that the learned Dr. Rolfink , Professor of Physic in the University of Jena in Upper Saxony , in his Book , entitled , Chymia in Artis formam redacta , affirms , that the current Mercury of Bodies is a Non-Ens : which our Author looking upon as an ungrounded and precarious Assertion , labours in this Tract to consute it , from Authority , Reason and Experiment , as may be seen page .
81 , &amp;c. That which we shall take here particular notice of , is that Chemical Experiment , which gives the Title to the Book , and is called New , alleged to prove the real and sudden Generation and Transmutation of Metals .
You may take it thus , if you please ; He took common Brick-earth , dried it in the Air that it might be sifted ; then poured so much Linseed-oyl upon it as that he might role it into little balls , of the size of the Retort 's neck , which they were to be put into , to the end , that the distillation being made , he needed not to break his retort for the taking out of the Caput mortuum , but might reserve it for other use .
That the fire might the more forcible penetrate those globuls , than if the matter were in one Mass , he filled the Retort with them , and by degrees distilled them with an open fire , during an hour or two .
This distillation being finished , he found in the Recipient an Oil almost like that , which he saith is improperly called Oleum Philosophorum ; then the Retort being cooled , he took the little balls out of it , which not being found red , by so strong a fire , but very black , he suspected that blackness proceeded from the Oil , some terrestrial parts of which , being fixed and severed by virtue of the Brick-earth , might there have assumed a Body ; which of what kind it was , was now further to be examined by trial .
Having therefore beaten small these black globuls , and sifted them , he put them into a dish , and having powered some common water upon it , he stirred it ; then being grown turbid , he gently powred it off , and powred on fresh clear water , still stirring the matter : which he so often repeated and continued , till the water came clear away , and there remained at the bottom of the dish a ponderous black sediment , which from its weight and sudden subsidence , as also from its dark colour he suspected to be of a Metallic , and indeed of an Iron nature ; which being dried upon paper , upon the application of a Load-stone , was thereby attracted in several grains , which by all proofs he found to be very good Iron .
Esteeming hence , that sulphureous Spirits may be fixed by a certain Earth as their Matrix ; he saith , that he employed the same method with all Minerals , Sulphurs , and Mercury it self , and accordingly melted various Minerals with various Earths and Clays ; whereby he discovered many Truths &amp; Transmutations .
And to convince his Readers of the reality of this Experiment , he spends a whole Chapter to prove the truth of the matter of fact , and of the genuiness of the Iron produced ; examining withal , whether that Iron thus produced had not been latent either in the Earth , or in the Oil , and so might have imposed upon him ; and having found , it had not , he inquires , what may be the Metallic cause in general in this Experiment ; and in particular , what the Ferrifick ( if we may be allow 'd to frame such a word ) or the Iron-making Principle , &amp;c. III .
De ABSYNTHIO Analecta , per Joh. Michael Fehr , M. D. Lipsiae 1668 in 80 .
Several Learned men in Germany , having associated themselves , some years since , into a Company under the Name of Academia Naturae Curioserum , resolved to undertake , each of them , the Description of some particular substance in Nature , considering with themselves how long the world had been fruitlessly amused with Generals : Of those particulars we only named some in Numb.68.p.2078 .
but shall now endeavour to give an account in the remainder of this Tract , of some performances of these undertakings ; Beginning here with the Treatise concerning ~ , which but very lately came to our hands .
In it the Author describes first its Nature , enumerateth its differences , observes its virtues , teaches divers preparations , and.delivers its manifold Uses , especially in strengthening and recovering covering the stomach and all the parts of the lower Belly ; in curing the Colic , Scurvy , Jaundies , Dropsy , &amp;c. in opening the Obstructions of the Liver and Spleen ; in expelling Worms , and driving away Moths , and other like vermin , &amp;c. After this , he endeavours to solve divers Questions proposed upon this subject , as , 1 .
Whether the bitterness may be taken away from Wormwood without destroying its virtues ?
which is resolved in the Negative .
2 .
Whether the Salts , called Essential , have the same virtue with their Simples ?
Answ .
in the Affirmative .
3 .
Whether the Resuscitation of Plants be naturally possible ?
Affirmed , as to their rerepresentation , &amp;c. Lastly , he concludes with an Enumeration of Bitter things ; which are found among Roots , Herbs , Stalks , Leaves , Flowers , Seeds , Berries , Fruits , Barks , Wood , Gums , Juyces , Oils , Extracts , Powders ; observing withal , that generally all Bitter things have the power to comminute , to be astersive , opening , and purgative , more or less .
CROCOLOGIA .
Auth. Joh. Ferdinando Hertodt M. D. Jena 1671 .
in 80 .
This Author gives us the Anatomy of Saffron , and having described it , and assigned its differences from its different nature , time of production , colour , flower , leaves ; and withal found the severalCountry 's of its growth , and showed the way of its Culture and Propagation : He proceeds to relate its Virtues and Uses ; in the doing of which he recommends it , and the several preparations thereof ( of which he sets down not a few , ) against the Head-ache , Palsy , Vertiginous distempers , Epilepsie , Lethargy , Intercepted Respiration ( called the Incubus , ) Frenzy , Inflammations and Suffusions of the Eyes , Tingling of the Ears , Squinancy , Cough , Pleurisie , Palpitation of the Heart , Nauseous ness , Haemorrhoids , Dysenteries , Diarrhaea 's , Colicks , Inflammation of the Liver , Dropsy , Jaundies , Obstructions of the Liver and Spleen , Hypochondrical distempers , the Stone , the difficulty of Excretion by Siege or Urine , the Green sickness , Infecundity , Suppression of the Menstrua , Hysteric passions , Hard Travel , Inflammation of the Breasts , Burnings , Gangrens , the Kings Evil , &amp;c. This Enumeration being made , and a great number of Receipts , of which Saffron is the chief Ingredient , interspersed , there are subjoyned several Quaeries , viz. 1 .
Whether Saffron be an Antidote to the poison of Napellus ?
It being affirmed so to be , the Author adds a Relation of a considerable Physician concerning the Polanders frequent and harmless eating of Napellus in their Salats ; the reason whereof is ascribed to the common use of Saffron by that people .
2 .
Whether Saffron removes or causes a surfeit ?
This is treated as disputable .
3 .
Whether it induces sleep or wakefulness ?
And this question is here debated , pro and con , yet so as that the Author endeavours to reconcile the disputing parties .
4 .
Whether Saffron tingeth the Faetus in the womb ?
Here are alleged several Experiments for the affirmative , of which the Author saith to have made one upon a Bitch with puppy , which brought her young ones forth yellowy-colour 'd , after he had given her , for a good part of her bearing time , all her meat and drink tinged with Saffron , and for three days , immediately before her whelping , put some drachms of Saffron in her broth .
There are also inserted some Mechanical uses of this Vegetable for tinging of Hair yellow ; for making a liquor to write golden-colour 'd Letters with ; and gilding of Leather , &amp;c. IV .
De LAUDANO OPIATO , Auth. Matth. Tillingio M D. Francofurti , 1671 .
in 8~ .
This Treatise hath four Parts .
The first contains the Origin of the Opiat Laudanum , and the Praises of its Usefulness in general ; together with a disquisition of its Temperament , and whether Opium be poisonous in its self , and may be used uncorrected , &amp; c ?
The latter part of which question is here resolved in the Negative .
The Second treats of the genuine correction of Opium ; delivers several descriptions of the Opiat Laudanum , much esteemed both by Galenic and Chemical Physicians ; prescribes the Dose and way of using it ; and withal anatomiseth and strictly examins his own preparation of this Medicin ; adding some cautions to be observed in the Use thereof .
The Third contains various Compositions of Opiat Medicines , or such as have Opium or the Opiat Laudanum for their chief Ingredient ; together with an enumeration of their particular Virtues .
The Fourth specifieth those Maladies and distempers , in which this Laudauum is singularly beneficial , made out both by Reason and the observation of the Author as well as of many other famous and worthy Physicians .
Here are reckoned up Head-aches , Sleeplesness , Phrensies , Giddiness , the Falling sickness , Haemorragies , Pleurisies , Bloud-spitting , Coughs , Consumptions , Paintings tings and Soundings , Fevers , Colicks , Fluxes , virulent Gonorrhaea 's , Hysterical distempers , &amp;c. As to the ill success which at times hath attended the taking of Laudanum , our Author ascribeth that either to the unskilful preparation , or the unseasonable and indiscreet exhibition of it .
In the preparation he observes , that the malignity that is in Opium , is best corrected by Alcaly 's , as having the force of taming that Narcotic sulphur , contained in it ; agreeing herein with Helmont 's Maxim , Omne Narcoticum perit in Alcaly .
Advertisements .
Since the printing of the foregoing particulars , there came to hand the New Observations above mentioned , of the Spots of the Sun , in Print , made at the Royal Academy in Paris , the 11th , 12th , and 13th of August , 1671 .
( st. n. ) by Signor Cassini ; who intimates at the end or his French Narrative concerning the same(which is intended to be English 'd for the next Tract , ) that from about Sept.4th , until Sept.18 .
( st. n. ) it will be worth while to observe , whether the same Spots after they have passed over the upper Hemisphere of the Sun , which is hidden to us , will not return again and appear in its apparent Disque .
The same Spots have been observed , as by a Letter from Dr. Fogelius at Hamburg we were also very lately informed , ) at Sea near the Tessel , by M Picard , one of the Royal Parifian Philosophers , namely Aug.3 .
( n.st .
) and some of the following days ; as also at Hamburg the 7th , 8th , 9th of August , ( n.st .
) Of which more also by the next opportunity .
What we have to add now ( which must not be deferred ) is the Prediction , made by the same Signor cassini , of the Eclipses of the Satillits of Jupiter , calculated for Uianiburg , and annexed here , to the end that our Astronomers , having reduced them to our Latitude and Longitude , may also observe the same .
The Immersions of the Satellits of 4 into its shadow , visible at Uraniburg , A. 1671 .
Sept.25 .
Immersio 1m .
mane h. 4 .
16~ Decemb. 3 .
imm .
1 .
h. 5.8~ .
Oct. 11 .
immers .
2di h. 4.26 .
8 .
imm .
4~ .
h 0.10 .
18 .
imm .
1mi h.4.43 .
Emersio h 5.10 .
25 .
imm .
1 .
h.6.41 .
12 .
imm .
1.-h.1 .
29 .
Nov. 7 .
imm .
3 .
h. 2 .
37 14 .
imm .
2 .
h.4.6 .
10 .
imm .
1 .
h.4.51 .
19 .
imm .
1h 3.19 .
12 .
imm .
2 .
h.4.18 20 .
imm 3 .
h 1 .
52 .
14 .
im. 3 .
h. 6 .
37 .
21 .
imm.2 .
h.6.49 .
17 .
imm .
1 .
h. 6.49 .
26 .
imm .
1.-h .
5 .
9 .
19 .
imm .
1 .
h. 1.20 .
27 imm.3 .
h.5 52 .
&amp; 2~ h. 7 .
1 .
26 .
imm .
1 .
h. 3 .
10 .

