425 1871 .
] Dr. Divers on Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
At Greenwich the egress only will be visible .
h m 8 Last internal contact , June 5 , at 16 44 23 1 Mean times at \gt ; \#187 ; external " , , 17 2 15 J Greenwich .
The sun will rise at I5h 46m .
II .
" On the Existence and Formation of Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
" By Edward Divers , M.D. Communicated by Professor W. Odling , M.B. , F.R.S. Received March 2 , 1871 .
1 .
Metallic sodium thrown on a solution of an alkali nitrate was found by Schonbein * to reduce it to nitrite .
He contented himself , however , with merely detecting the nitrite by the iodide and starch test .
By using the sodium in the form of amalgam the complete reduction of the nitrate to nitrite can be readily effected , and silver nitrite freely precipitated from the solution by first neutralizing it with an acid and then adding silver nitrate .
2 .
But so soon as nitrite is thus formed by the sodium , it itself begins to suffer reduction , as well as the remaining nitrate , by the action of more sodium .
This reduction of the nitrite is rendered evident by the effervescence which attends it , the gas given off consisting of pure nitrous oxide .
If excess of sodium amalgam be gradually added to the nitrate solution , and its action moderated by keeping the vessel containing the mixture in a stream of cold water , the effervescence only becomes very lively when the sodium added has nearly reached the proportion of two atoms to one of the nitrate used .
When four atoms of sodium have been oxidized by the solution , the further addition of it is without effect ; no more effervescence takes place , and the sodium remains unchanged in the mercury .
3 .
The very alkaline liquid which is left by the reaction contains a new salt , though in relatively small quantity\#151 ; the salt of nitrous oxide .
The action of sodium on sodium nitrate may therefore be thus formulated:\#151 ; 1st stage : j 0 + Naa=*J ' j 0+Na20 .
2nd stage j 0 + Naa=*Ja j 0+Naa0 .
As regards the escape of nitrous oxide during the reduction , this is explained by the reaction on each other of two molecules of the new salt , under the influence of the heat produced by the oxidation of the sodium , thus:\#151 ; * Erdmann 's Joum .
fur pratt .
Chemie , vol. lxxxiv .
( 1861 ) p. 202 .
|f *t ^ken ammonium nitrate is employed instead of sodium or potassium nitrate , the action of the sodium is the same ; and it is here interesting to point out that ammo-mum nitrate is an exception to the conclusion at which Gay-Lussac and Th\lt ; 5nard arrived I ' ourn ' Physique , vol. lxix .
1809 , p. 463 ) , after they had tried the carbonate , chlo Dr. Divers on Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
[ Apr. 20 , 4 .
After neutralizing the alkaline liquid by acetic acid , it gives a yellow , pulverulent precipitate with silver nitrate .
This precipitate , when thoroughly washed from its saline mother liquor , is almost as insoluble in water as silver chloride ; for hydrochloric acid gives no immediate opalescence with water filtered through it .
It is quite stable below 100 ' C. , or a little lower than this , and it may be washed with hot water without change .
It is also unaffected by light , or by exposure to a pure atmosphere , even when in contact with paper .
It is but very sparingly soluble in acetic acid ; so that this acid may be added in excess to the original alkaline liquid without removing its property of being precipitated by silver salts .
It is soluble in ammonia and ammonium carbonate , from solution in either of which it can be again thrown down by acetic acid , or by cautious neutralization of the ammonia by dilute nitric or sulphuric acid , or by the volatilization of the ammonia .
It is soluble in either dilute nitric or sulphuric acid , and without immediate decomposition ; and it can be reprecipitated from its solution in either of these acids by the cautious addition of ammonia or ammonium carbonate , or by the free addition of sodium carbonate or sodium hydrate , in either of which it is insoluble .
It is immediately oxidized by concentrated nitric acid , copious red fumes being produced .
Moderately diluted nitric , sulphuric , or hydrochloric acid decomposes it , with the evolution of nitrogen , and the production of apparently both nitrous and nitric acids in the solution .
It is also decomposed by soluble chlorides and by hydrosulphuric acid .
" When precipitated from the original liquid , it sometimes becomes dark-coloured ; but this change is due to the formation of a black matter derived from the sodium or naphtha and the silver acetate .
After washing it , dissolving it in very dilute nitric acid , and filtering the solution , it may be reobtained by the cautious addition of ammonia , or by the addition of ammonia to alkaline reaction and then a little acetic acid , in a condition in which it is no longer liable to discoloration .
It is decomposed by a moderate heat into nitric oxide , metallic silver , and a little silver nitrate in this respect resembling silver nitrite .
My experiments on silver nitrite , about being published , show that nitric oxide may serve as a carrier of atmospheric oxygen to silver nitrite ; and it is therefore most probable that in this case also some of the nitric oxide liberated serves to carry a little oxygen to the still undecomposed new silver-salt .
During its decomposition by heat it does not fuse or exhibit any other change except that from a bright yellow to a silver-white colour .
After a red heat nothing remains but pure silver .
5 .
The following determinations of the amount of silver in the salt have been made:\#151 ; _ , I. *3317 grm. , dried at a gentle heat , was suspended in water and digested ride , phosphate , and sulphate , that any ammonium salt would give ammonium gam with sodium amalgam .
Ammonium nitrate yields no ammonium amalgam sodium amalgam ; more than this , the presence of a nitrate prevents the forma i M this body by other salts of ammonium .
1871 .
] Dr. Divers on Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
with hydrochloric acid .
The silver chloride weighed *3386 grm. = *2549 grm. silver .
II .
*5703 grm. of some of the salt which had been dissolved in ammonia , filtered , and precipitated by acetic acid , was dissolved in dilute nitric acid and treated with hydrochloric acid .
It yielded *5858 grm. silver chloride='4410 grm. silver .
III .
*9462 grm. of some of the salt which had been dissolved in nitric acid , filtered , and reprecipitated by ammonia , was dissolved in very dilute nitric acid and precipitated by hydrochloric acid .
It gave *9722 grm. chloride =*7318 grm. silver .
IY .
*6111 grm. of the same preparation as the last was heated at first moderately and then to redness .
It left *4737 grm. silver .
V. *3685 grm. kept for sixty hours at a temperature varying from 100 ' to 17o ' , left a residue weighing *2921 grm. , of which '2775 grm. was metallic silver and the rest silver nitrate=*0093 grm. silver .
VI .
'5937 grm. heated moderately till red fumes ceased to appear yielded *4274 grm. silver and *0557 grm. silver nitrate=*0354 grm. silver .
The percentage numbers for the silver found and that required by the formula NOAg are : Calc .
I. II .
III .
IV .
Y. VI .
78*26 76*85 77*33 77*34 77*48 77*83 77*95 so that there can he no doubt as to the composition of the salt , although the silver comes out about one per cent , too low .
But in several of the samples traces of brownish or black matters were detected on solution ; and in the last preparation analyzed , the presence of a little moisture was detected , an attempt to expel which in some of the unused salt by a stronger heat caused partial decomposition .
6 .
If the product of 4the ultimate action of sodium on the nitrate be treated with acetic acid , as directed , until it is neutral to test-paper , it gives no precipitate with any metallic solution except that of silver , so far at least as trial has yet been made .
But the precipitation of the silver-salt leaves the solution of an acid reaction to litmus ; and even if the solution before precipitation be rendered a little alkaline to litmus , it will , after precipitation , generally react slightly acid .
The reason of this is clearly that the sodium salt has a markedly alkaline reaction ; and this is further shown to be the case by adding some of the washed silver-salt to a solution of potassium or sodium chloride , which it at once renders alkaline in reaction to litmus .
To obtain a solution of the salt free from acid or caustic alkali , the original alkaline liquid is to be treated with acetic acid in successive quantities until it just ceases to yield a brown precipitate with silver nitrate .
Such a solution will yield the yellow silver-salt with silver nitrate as before , and also precipitates with the salts of most of the common metals .
Instead of acetic acid dilute nitric acid may be used in this method for thus neutralizing the caustic soda , with the same result as to Dr. Divers on Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
[ Apr. 20 the alkalinity of the solution to test-paper , and its capability of being precipitated by many metallic salts .
7 .
The following reactions having as yet been only observed with a solution thus obtained , it is possible that some of them may not be due simply to the new acid:\#151 ; Barium chloride gives no precipitate .
Lead acetate gives a cream-white flocculent precipitate , which generally , on standing , changes to a very dense , full yellow precipitate .
This precipitate is unchanged by boiling in water or in its mother liquor , is soluble in acetic and other acids , slowly , if at all , affected by ammonia or sodium carbonate , and instantly decomposed by caustic soda .
Mercuric chloride gives a cream-white flocculent precipitate .
Mercurous nitrate gives a blackish-grey precipitate , not improbably a mixture of mercury and the mercuric salt .
Cupric sulphate , a yellowish olive-green flocculent precipitate , soluble in acids and ammonia , insoluble in caustic soda , and unaffected by boiling in water or its mother liquor .
The colour of this precipitate closely resembles the colour of a copper-salt mixed with a nitrite .
Zinc chloride gives a white precipitate .
Manganese chloride gives a whitish precipitate .
Nickel chloride gives a greenish , almost white precipitate .
Cobalt nitrate gives no precipitate ( ?
) .
Alum gives a white precipitate .
Ferric chloride gives a slight reddish-brown precipitate .
Ferrous sulphate gives a whitish precipitate , instantly darkening to dirty blackish green and eventually reddish brown .
On addition of ferric chloride effervescence slowly commences ; and with ferrous sulphate the same thing happens , but still more slowly .
It is very probable that the iron and aluminium precipitates are simply hydrates ; and if so , the action of this salt in these cases closely resembles that of a carbonate .
Silver nitrate behaves as already described .
Sodium chloride gives an alkaline solution with the silver-salt , which is .
changed to chloride .
Ammonium chloride gives the same result as sodium chloride , but the solution at once evolves ammonia .
The existence , therefore , of the ammonium salt of the new acid is problematical .
Potassium permanganate gives the beautiful changes of colour from its own violet , through purple , blue , and chrome-green , to manganate green , and then a brown precipitate .
The exhibition of this series of colours is more certain in the presence of a little caustic alkali .
In this reaction the new salt resembles a nitrite , but it is much more sensitive than this .
Potassium iodide gives no reaction ; it does with nitrite .
Iodine solution is decolorized immediately ; so that if a nitrite , not in excess , is added to a solution of the new salt , the addition of starch and potassium iodide produces no coloration .
1871 .
] Dr. Divers on Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
The solution acidified with acetic or hydrochloric acid still gives no reaction with potassium iodide , decolorizes iodine solutions , and prevents the action of a nitrite on an iodide .
The acidified solution gives no coloration sulphate .
In contact with strong sulphuric acid , the mixture gives the coloration like a nitrate .
As is well known , a nitrite , even without addition of acid , gives an immediate colour with ferrous sulphate .
The acidified solution immediately decolorizes potassium permanganate .
The acidified solution does not reduce potassium dichromate .
The solution which has been neutralized with nitric acid instead of acetic acid will not do for the iron and iodine tests , as this behaves , so far as it has been tried , as though it contained a nitrite .
The acidified acetic-acid solution , when heated , evolves nitrous oxide .
Here again , therefore , the new salt is analogous to a carbonate , \#151 ; 2N0H=N30+0H2 .
8 .
When silver nitrite is heated until a greenish-yellow , semifused mass remains , and this is washed out with water , the residue consists of metallic silver and a little bright yellow matter , unaffected by light , soluble in ammonia , and decomposed by boiling in water , as will be found described in my paper on the action of heat on silver nitrite already referred to .
From the properties of this yellow substance , and from the manner in which it is formed , it is probable that it is the silver-salt of the new acid ; but in consequence of the small quantity of it obtainable , and of the admixture of this with metallic silver , a fuller examination of it has not been attempted .
If it be this salt , its formation is analogous to that of silver nitrite by heating silver nitrate .
9 .
There is also reason for believing that Hess * came across this salt by first treating a solution of barium nitrate which had been deoxidized by heat with a solution of silver sulphate and evaporating the mixture , and then decomposing the cry stals thus obtained by the action of water .
10 .
In his * Researches on Nitrous Oxide'Sir Humphry Davy described some experiments by which he obtained what appeared to him to be a combination of nitrous oxide with potash .
He prepared it by exposing a mixture of solid potassium hydrate and potassium sulphite to the prolonged action of nitric oxide , dissolving the resulting product in water , crystallizing out the potassium sulphate formed , and then evaporating to dryness .
The mass thus obtained evolved when heated pure nitrous oxide , amounting to about a fourth of its weight .
Since then , however , Pelouze X has obtained , by a modification of Davy 's method , the alkali nitrosulphates ; and it seems to be now universally * Pogg .
Ann. vol. xii .
( 1828 ) p. 257 .
t Researches , Chemical and Philosophical , chiefly concerning Nitrous Oxide ( 1800 ) .
Res. ii .
Div .
i. sect. 6 , pp. 254-277 .
% " Sir quelques combinaisons d'un nouvel Acide form6 d'Azote , de Soufre et d'Oxy-gene , " Ann. de Chim .
et de Phys. vol. lx .
( 1835 ) p. 151 .
430 Dr. Divers on Salts of Nitrous Oxide .
[ Apr. 20 , believed that Davy must have in reality obtained a nitrosulphate and not a simple salt of nitrous oxide .
I have not yet had time to repeat Davy 's experiments myself , but I wish to point out one well-marked and essential difference between the body obtained by Davy and Pelouze 's nitrosulphate , which is that , whereas the former body evolved pure nitrous oxide when heated , the latter gives off nitric oxide ; and also that , according to Davy 's experiments , Pelouze 's modification of the former 's process would be fatal to its success in forming the salts of nitrous oxide .
11 .
There is some difficulty in selecting an appropriate name for the new acid .
That of hyponitrous acid naturally suggests itself , as being framed according to the usual method of naming a rising series of oxygen acids , and as associating the new acid with the similarly constituted acid of chlorine ; but I feel that in naming the nitrous-oxide acid regard ought to be had to the possible existence of salts of nitric oxide , in which several chemists have believed , indeed , and on better evidence , I think , after a perusal of some of their papers , than is generally supposed .
Now , if the nitric-oxide acid should be discovered , and if the term " hyponitric " is to be retained for the acid intermediate to the nitrous and nitric acids , the term " hyponitrous " would belong by analogy to the nitric-oxide acid rather than to the new acid .
This difficulty , however , will vanish if the term hyponitric be allowed to fall out of use and that of nitroso-nitric , already adopted by several chemists , be generally substituted for it as the name of the nitrogen-peroxide acid ; for then , the term " hyponitrous " being given to the new acid , there remains the compound term " hyponitroso-nitrous " for the nitric-oxide acid , should this acid ever be obtained .
There will thus be the following series of names:\#151 ; Hyponitrous acid ... ... ... ... ... . .
UNO Hyponitroso-nitrous acid ... ... ... H2 N2 03 Nitrous acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... HN02 Nitroso-nitric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... H , N205 Nitric acid ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
HNOs If , however , the terms " hyponitrous " and " hyponitric " are to be retained for the second and fourth members of the above series , the term " hydro-nitrosylic " may serve for the new acid , according to its constitution :\#151 ; Hydrogen .
Nitrosyl .
H NO I am at present engaged in the further study of this interesting acid and its salts , and hope , before very long , to have the honour to make known the obtained results to the Society .
Addendum , April 26 , 1871 .
When the above paper was presented to the Royal Society I was not 1871 .
] On a New Group of Colloid Bodies .
aware that the action of sodium amalgam upon alkali nitrites had been recently investigated by M. Fremy* and M. Maumenef , neither of whom , however , have anticipated me in the discovery of the new class of salts here described .
The latter chemist finds that in one set of circumstances this action gives rise to a body allied in composition and properties to oxyam-monia , and in another only to ammonia .
M. Fremy finds that it produces oxyammonia , nitrogen which escapes , and nitrous oxide which remains in solution .
So far as I have since been able to experiment , I have found that , by proceeding in different ways , a very small and variable amount of oxyammonia , or a substance resembling it , is often obtained along with the sodium hyponitrite , which is always formed in material quantity ; and , further , that , under the circumstances which favour the formation of oxyammonia , there are also obtained , together with nitrous oxide , the products of the decomposition of oxyammonia by alkalies\#151 ; nitrogen and ammonia ( Lossen ) .
The presence of oxyammonia in the product of the action of sodium on sodium nitrate affords a more satisfactory explanation than that I have given of the darkening of the silver-salt after precipitation which I have sometimes observed to occur .
M. Fremy states that alkali nitrites do not decompose potassium permanganate ; and I now find that my assumption to the contrary is an error , based on an observation of considerable interest , which is that some good commercial nitrite in my possession slowly reduces the permanganate .
I have since ascertained that other samples of sodium nitrite have no action on the permanganate , and that the one which does react with it behaves also with copper- and lead-salts in such a way as to render very probable the presence in it of a minute quantity of my new salt .
This formation of hyponitrite , by heating sodium nitrate , if it does really take place , is in accordance with Hess 's observations of the action of heat on barium nitrate , and with mine on silver nitrite.\#151 ; E. D. III .
" Research on a New Group of Colloid Bodies containing Mercury , and certain Members of the series of Fatty Ketones By J. Emerson Reynolds , Member of the Royal College of Physicians , Edinburgh , Keeper of the Mineral Department , and Analyst to the Royal Dublin Society .
Communicated by Robert H. Scott , F.R.S. Received January 19 , 1871 .
Introduction.\#151 ; About ten years ago , when engaged in the examination of some of the constituents of the rectified wood-naphtha of commerce , I observed that moist and freshly precipitated mercuric oxide was dissolved by the naphtha in the presence of potassium hydrate , and that the resulting alkaline solution possessed highly characteristic properties .
It was ascer* Comptes Rendus ( 1870 ) , vol. lxx .
pp. 66 \amp ; 1208 .
+ Ibid. p. 149 .

