OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED .
Robert Hunt was born at Devonport , on the 6th of September , 1807 , six months after the death of his father , an ofncer of the Royal Navy , who , together with all the crew of his vessel , was drowned in the Grecian Archipelago .
His early education , received partly in his native town , and partly at Penzance , was brief and inadequate , for when only twelve and a half years of age , be was sent to London and placed with a surgeon in practice there .
His medical career appears to have been by no means a happy one .
He soon contrived , however , to acquire enough of Latin to qualify him for dispensing prescriptions ; he gained some knowledge of anatomy by attending Brooke 's lectures ; and amid the exacting labours of a Fleet Street dispensary he found occasional leisure hours , that enabled him to profit by the use of a good library to -which be had been allowed access .
For somewhere about eleven years be continued as a druggist 's assistant , until at last an illness made it needful for him to return for a season to Cornwall .
About this time bis grandfather 's death put him in possession of a small property on the banks of the River Fowey .
With characteristic energy and enthusiasm , he was no sooner master of this source of income than he sold some of the fine old elm-trees on his ground , and with the proceeds kept himself for some months , during which he tramped all over Cornwall , looking at the scenery and the rocks , but more especially mingling with the peasantry , and gathering from their lips the legends and superstitions that still lingered in that remote western county .
Long afterwai*ds this early journey bore fruit in his volume on the " Romances and Drolls of Devon and Cornwall , " which went through three editions .
Hunt 's mind showed from his boyhood a markedly poetic vein .
While still a young man he published by subscription at Penzance his first literary venture , which was a descriptive poem , entitled " The Mount 's Bay , " followed in later life by his volume " The Poetry of Science , " and " Panthea , the Spirit of Nature .
" He interested himself in the formation of a mechanics ' institute at Penzance , and himself gave the first of its lectures .
Hunt 's first distinct entry into the domain of scientific research was suggested to him by Daguerre 's experiments in the infant art of photography .
He had already gained some practical acquaintance with chemistry and chemical methods of enquiry , so that he was in some measure prepared to begin an independent investigation in photochemistry .
His first paper ( on " Tritiodide of Mercury " ) appeared b in the 4 Philosophical Magazine ' for 1838 .
From that date onward for some years he continued his enquiries , and published in the Reports of the British Association or elsewhere his results , some of which were of such practical value as materially to conduce to the advance of photography , and to entitle him to a place among the pioneers in this important practical application of science .
He still farther increased his reputation by publishing his well known manual on photography , which passed through six editions , and by his 44 Researches on Light , " the first edition of which appeared in 1844 .
In 1840 Hunt 's devotion to science and his indefatigable industry were recognised by his appointment as Secretary of the Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society , at Falmouth .
Five years later , after he had given still further proofs of his abilities , and had attracted the notice of De la Beche , the Director-General of the Geological Survey , he was made Keeper of Mining Records , a new office then created in connexion with the Office of the Survey , at Craig 's Court .
In 1851 , wdien the School of Mines was started , in Jermyn Street , he became Lecturer on Mechanical Science , retaining at the same time his other appointment in the Mining Record Office .
But after a few years he was relieved of the duties of his lecturership , that he might devote himself more uninterruptedly to the laborious duties of the collection and tabulation of the statistics of mines all over the United Kingdom .
It was in these duties that he was chiefly engaged during the rest of his long and active life , until , at the age of seventy-six years , he retired on a well-merited pension .
While assiduously devoted to the official work of his office , which involved him in continual correspondence with mining authorities and frequent journeys into the various mining districts , Hunt yet found time , mostly in his evenings , to undertake much independent literary work .
Chief among these labours was his series of successive editions of Ure 's 44 Dictionary of Arts , Manufactures , and Mines .
" But he was also a constant contributor to literary and scientific journals .
Most of his original scientific work , -which was mainly in the department of photographic chemistry , was done between the years 1838 and 1853 .
In 1854 he was elected into this Society .
He died after a brief illness on 17th October , 1887 .
His remarkably gentle and sympathetic nature led to his making a large circle of friends , and gave him probably a wider influence in the mining community of this country than was possessed by any other man .
A. G. Robert Cornelis , Lord Napier of Magdala , was born in Ceylon on the 6th December , 1810 , and died in London on the 14th January , 1890 .
His father was Captain C. F. Napier , R.A. He was educated iii at the East India Company 's Military College at Addiscoinbe , and , after passing out with great credit , on the 15th December , 182G , was appointed to the Bengal Engineers .
After a practical course of engineering at Chatham , he proceeded , in 1828 , to India , and was soon sent to assist Captain ( afterwards Colonel Sir Proby ) Cautley in superintending the restored Eastern Jumna Canal , which had fallen into disuse during the decline of the Mogul Empire .
In 1840 , after a visit to England , he was appointed Executive Engineer at Darjiling , and , in the following year , he was transferred in the same capacity to the Karnal Division of the Public Works .
Three years later he was employed in building a new station at Ambala to replace the cantonment of Karnal .
Captain Napier first saw active service in the Sutlej campaign of 1845-46 .
At Mudki and Ferozshah , where he was severely wounded , he was on the Staff of Sir Hugh Gough ; at Sobraon he was Brigade-Major of Engineers , and at the siege of the hill fort of Kangra he was Chief Engineer .
For his services in the campaign he was thanked by Government , and received the brevet of major .
In 1848-49 he served in the Panjab campaign , and was present at the siege of Multan , where he was severely wounded ; the battle of Gujrat ; and with Sir Walter Gilbert during the memorable pursuit of the defeated Sikh troops .
In 1849 Colonel Napier was appointed " Civil Engineer for the Panjab , " and whilst holding that post displayed great boldness and capacity as an engineer .
Roads , such as the trunk-road from Lahore to Peshawar , were made ; great rivers were bridged ; old irrigation canals were reopened , and new ones , such as the Bari Doab Canal , were projected ; civil buildings were erected ; and trees were planted along the canals , or in large plantations , for fuel .
In 1852-53 Colonel Napier was employed in the Black Mountain campaign against the Hassanzai tribe , and in the expedition against the Bori Afridi tribes ; and in 1857 , after a visit to England , he was appointed Officiating Chief Engineer of Bengal .
His services were , however , soon required on another field ; throughout the operations conducted by General Havelock for the relief of Lucknow he served as Chief of the Staff to General Outram , and during the second defence of the Residency he directed the engineering operations .
Though wounded at the relief of Lucknow , he was able to take part in the siege and capture of that town ; and afterwards , during the campaign in Central India , he commanded a brigade , and fought the action of Jaura-Alipore .
For his services during the Indian Mutiny he received the thanks of Parliament , and was made a C.B. and K.C.B. During the China war of 1860 , Sir Robert Napier commanded a division under Sir Hope Grant ; and at its close he received the thanks of Parliament , and was made a Major-General " for distinc iv guished military services .
" On his return to India he was appointed to the command of a division in Bengal , and nominated a member of the Council of the Governor-General .
In 1865 he was appointed Commander-in-Chief in Bombay ; and two years later he was selected to command the expedition to Abyssinia .
The Abyssinian was one of the most skilfully conducted of military expeditions , and it achieved its object almost without loss .
On its termination Sir Robert Napier received the thanks of Parliament ; was raised to the Peerage with the title of Lord Napier of Magdala ; was made a G.C.B. ; and was presented by the Corporation of London with the Freedom of the City , and a sword of the value of \#163 ; 200 .
Lord Napier was afterwards Commander-in-Chief in India ( 1870-76 ) ; Governor of Gibraltar ( 1876-82 ) ; and Constable of the Tower ( 1887-90 ) .
He was made a Field Marshal in 1882 , and was a G.C.S.I. ; he was also an Honorary D.C.L. of Oxford , and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1869 .
Lord Napier never wrote anything except his official reports and despatches , and never spoke in public except upon subjects of which he was master .
His speeches were always to the point , and they were listened to with attention .
He was a man of perfect courage , exquisite modesty , and great simplicity of character , who was animated by a lofty conception of duty , and never , in word or deed , departed from the high ideal at which he aimed .
A distinguished soldier , a sage counsellor , and a loyal servant of the Queen , he won the complete devotion and implicit confidence of the European and native soldiers who served under his orders , and throughout his long life he employed his great talents in promoting the best interests of the Empire he loved so well .
c. w. w. Dr. Cobbold was educated at Charterhouse , and matriculated at the University of Edinburgh in 1847 as a student of medicine , having previously served a three years ' apprenticeship with Mr. Cross , of Norwich , one of the most eminent surgeons of his time .
Being already possessed of great skill and dexterity in dissection and in the making of museum preparations , he became , in his second year of medical study , prosector to Professor Goodsir , and was thus led to abandon practical medicine for anatomy .
He graduated in 1852 , and was soon after appointed Curator of the Anatomical Museum , and began to lecture on comparative osteology in the museum .
In 1856 Dr. Cobbold removed to London , and thereafter devoted himself chiefly to the study of animal parasites .
In 1864 his well-known systematic work ( ' Entozoa : an introduction to the study of Helminthology , ' London , 1864 ) appeared , to which he added in 1869 a supplement containing his later researches .
Dr. Cobbold 's most important original contributions to Helminthology were his experimental researches on Tcenia and other Cestodes , published in the work just referred to , his observations on Distomahcematobium ( hcematobia , ' Brit. Med. Journ. , ' 1872 ) , and those relating to the so-called sanguinis hominis ( F. Bancrofts)published in the Journal of the Linnean Society in 1878 .
Dr. Cobbold became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1864 .
He lectured on Zoology at the Middlesex Hospital from 1860 to 1873 , was Swiney Professor of Geology from 1868 to 1872 , and subsequently Pi*ofessor of Helminthology at the Royal Veterinary College .
His last communication to the Linnean Society was read on March 4 , 1886 , not many weeks before his lamented and unexpected death .
J. B. S. John Ball , Honoi'ary Fellow of Christ 's College , Cambridge , was born in Dublin , August 20 , 1818 , being the son of the Right Honourable Nicholas Ball , M.P. , formerly Attorney-General for Ireland , and latterly Judge of the Irish County Common Plea3 .
At a very early age he developed a love of both physical and biological science , which was encouraged by his father , and greatly stimulated when he was yet a child by visits to the Continent , and especially to the Alps , during which he collected assiduously , and in his first decade taught himself to measure heights barometrically .
At thirteen , his family being Roman Catholic , he was sent for three years to the College of St. Mary 's , Oscote , now Stonyhurst , where he received a classical and mathematical education .
This was at a time when ( not as now ) scientific proclivities amongst the students were repressed rather than developed , and where his principal amusement , chemistry , was ( as he has himself recorded ) pursued under every discouragement .
It was at the meeting of the British Association at Dublin in 1835 that Ball 's scientific tastes first met recognition .
After a week 's thorough enjoyment of nearly all the sections , he was placed by his father in charge of the present Professor of Botany at Cambridge ( Mr. Babington ) , and R. M. Lingwood , in order that he might accompany these gentlemen on a scientific tour which they were about to undertake in the West of Ireland .
An account of this tour appeared in the 'Magazine of Natural History , ' vol. 9 , 1836 , p. 119 , wherein the geological observations were supplied by young Ball .
In 1836 Mr. Ball was sent to Christ 's College , Cambridge , where he devoted himself chiefly to mathematics , and in 1838 contributed a paper to the Mathematical Section of the British Association which was favourably noticed by Sir William Hamilton .
At Cambridge he renewed his friendship with Mr. Babington , and made that vi of the Rev. J. S. Henslow , then Professor of Botany to the University , whom he accompanied on his botanical excursions with his pupils ; and to the influence of these two botanists is to be attributed the devotion of the chief part of Ball 's scientific life to botany .
In 1839 he came out twenty-seventh Wrangler in the Mathematical Tripos , but his religion debarred his receiving a degree , as it had already frustrated all hopes of a scholarship or fellowship .
In 1845 , after being called to the Irish Bar , wherein he never practised , he revisited the Alps , and undertook a series of observations on the Glaciers near Zermatt ; these he never published , regarding them as only confirmatory of those previously obtained by Professor James Forbes .
Mr. Ball 's next occupation was official .
In 1846 he was appointed an Assistant Poor Law Commissioner for Ireland , in view of the distress caused by the ravages of the potato disease .
The strain of this work on his mind and body was so great that after a year of arduous labour he was obliged to resign and seek abroad a restoration of health .
After two years he returned to the office with the appointment of Second Commissioner , which he held till he entered Parliament as Member for Carlow .
In 1855 he became Under Secretary for the Colonies , a post which he held for two years , proving himself a most efficient and energetic official , and one having the interests of science always at heart .
Amongst other services to science may be especially mentioned the organising the Palliser Expedition , to ascertain the positions of practicable routes across the Rocky Mountains of British North America .
To this expedition he had appointed as geologist and naturalist ( with a staff of collectors ) , Dr. now Sir James Hector , F.R.S. , the present Director of Geological and Meteorological Surveys in New Zealand .
The principal results were the survey of four passes , including that of the " Kicking Horse , " now crossed by the Canadian Pacific Railway , and the first knowledge ever obtained of the geology of the vast regions of West Canada and the Rocky Mountains .
Mr. Ball also took an active part in urging upon the Colonial Governments the importance of issuing inexpensive floras of the British Colonies , which had been initiated by the late Sir W. Hooker .
In 1858 Mr. Ball 's Parliamentary career ended with the expiration of the Ministry , but happily there did not depart with it bis influence with future Governments ; for he had meanwhile formed political friendships that lasted during his lifetime , and of which he freely availed himself on many occasions in the interests of science .
In 1858 he stood for Limerick , but was defeated .
In the words of an obituary notice in the ' Times , ' " A cloud was then rising in the horizon , which gravely disturbed the Catholic constituencies , though the rest of the world knew little of it as yet .
This was the Italian vii question .
The Irish priests foresaw the coming struggle , and demanded that their candidates should take the side of the Papacy and the Duchies against Piedmont and the Revolution .
This John Ball , though a good Catholic , refused to do , and he was therefore opposed by the Irish priests , and , after a hard struggle , he was defeated .
" During the remainder of his life Mr. Ball devoted himself to science as an accomplished and enthusiastic amateur , untrammelled by professional duties , and with a sufficient private income to gratify his love of travel , and of both physics and botany .
He was further an excellent linguist , gifted with an uncommonly retentive and accurate memory , an experienced mountaineer , and he had , through his connections and his early visits to the Continent , scientific friends in most of the great capitals .
Though by far the greater part of his time and energies was devoted to the Alps , he made extensive journeys in Hungary , Italy , Sicily , Spain and Portugal , Morocco , Algeria , Tunis , the Canary Islands , and the United States , and a cursory visit to the West Coast of South America and Brazil , everywhere collecting and observing , and forming friendships with scientific men that were kept up by an indefatigable correspondence .
Of Mr. Ball 's scientific works , the most extensive were the Alpine Guides .
It has been well said of them by a most competent authority that " In the history of guide books the ' Alpine Guide ' stands where 'Dr .
Johnson 's Dictionary ' stands amongst dictionaries .
" The basis of this work is of course topographical , but the geological and botanical features of every subdivided area of the great chain of the Alps are dwelt upon with such intelligence and accuracy that no scientific man would regard his outfit for an Alpine tour as complete without Ball 's guides .
He also wrote the greater part of the ' Journal of a Tour in Marocco and the Great Atlas , ' being the records of an expedition made to that country in 1871 , in company with Sir J. Hooker and Mr. G. Maw .
The ' Spicilegium Florae Maroccanae ' is the work by which Mr. Ball will be best known to botanists .
It is a virgin flora , the first ever attempted of the country , which , and especially its mountain regions , was in fact botanically as well as geographically previously unvisited ; and the materials were almost exclusively those formed by the members of the expedition .
These Mr. Ball worked up with scrupulous care , and by the light of his exact knowledge of the kindred floras of Spain and the Southern Alps , with results that are beyond criticism .
In a botanico-geographical point of view the unexpected conclusion was arrived at , that the Marocco flora is European , not sharing ( as it was expected to do ) in the peculiarities of the Canarian and Madeiran , thus confirming the great antiquity of .
the latter .
viii His other principal botanical papers are " On the Origin of the Flora of the European Alps , " read before the Royal Geographical Society , and a discussion on the origin of the South American flora , published in his ' Notes of a Naturalist .
' Mr. Ball 's ' Notes of a Naturalist in South America , ' is a work unique of its kind .
It embraces the observations and reflections on various scientific subjects that he made , or that suggested themselves to him , during a five months ' voyage extending over 18,400 miles of ocean and embracing 100 ' of latitude , during which he passed only seventy days on land .
The route was from England via the West Indies to Panama , thence down the West Coast of South America to Chili , through the Straits of Magellan to the Plate river , and to Brazil , and so home .
At whatever point he landed , or even touched , he was quick to secure a trip to the mountains or forests , bringing back collections and notes of value and interest ; and the result is a work of which it has justly been pronounced to be worthy of a corner on the same shelf as those of Darwin , Walker , and Bates .
In fact , no other narrative gives consecutively a view in accurate outline of the geographical , meteorological , and botanical features , absolute and comparative , of the different countries along the West Coast of South America from Panama to Fuegia .
An appendix contains a description " of the fall of temperature in ascending heights above the sea level , " and " Remarks on Mr. Croll 's Theory of Secular Changes of the Earth 's Climate .
" The botanical results are embodied in a paper read since his death before the Linnean Society of London .
In meteorology , besides the appendix to the 'Notes of a Naturalist , ' mentioned above , he contributed papers " On Thermometric Observations in the Alps , " and " On the Determination of Heights by means of the Barometer , " to the ' Reports of the British Association ; ' and he was the first to suggest the utilisation of the electric telegraph for meteorological purposes connected with storm warnings , in a paper " On Rendering the Electric Telegraph Subsei'vient to Meteorological Research , " read before the British Association in 1848 .
This suggestion was not carried into effect till 1861 .
On the subject of glaciers , he published in the Geological Society 's Journal a notice of " The former existence of small Glaciers in the County of Kerry , " and in the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' papers on the Structure of Glaciers , on the cause of their Descent , and " On the Formation of Alpine Valleys and Alpine Lakes .
" Personally Mr. Ball was one of the most agreeable of men , of an affectionate nature , of warm sympathies , simple minded , and generous in thought and action .
His company was much sought , from the fond of information he possessed , and the charm of his manner in 'communicating it .
His services to science were perfectly disinterested , and his aid never withheld .
His position in society was a rare one , ix counting as lie did amongst his warmest friends so many of the of the literary , artistic , scientific , political , and even musical world in England and on the Continent .
He was as fond of society as society was of him , and he confided to a friend his belief that to this must be laid the blame of his not having done more scientific work .
He was twice married : in 1856 to an Italian lady , Eliza Parolini , daughter of a distinguished naturalist and Oriental traveller , Count Alberto Parolini , by whom he had two children ( sons ) , who survive him , and through whom he came into estates at Bassano , in Venetia .
His second wife was Miss Julia O'Beirne , daughter of F. O'Beirne , Esq. , of Co. Leitrim , who survives him .
He was a Fellow of the Royal Irish Academy , of the Linnean , Antiquarian , and Royal Geographical Societies , and was elected a Fellow of this Society in 1868 .
Shortly before his death he received the Honorary Fellowship of his Cambridge College ( Christ 's ) , a distinction the more appreciated as he had been debarred by his religion from University honours , which he assuredly would have otherwise won half a century earlier .
For the last few years of his life Mr. Ball suffered much from an affection of the throat , which obliged him to pass the winters abroad ; and whilst in the Engadine an internal tumour was developed , for which , on his return to England in the summer of 1889 , he underwent a severe operation .
Under the effects of this he succumbed on October 21 , 1889 , at his house in South Kensington .
His extensive herbarium and botanical library were left by bequest to Sir J. D. Hooker , the Director of the Royal Gardens , Kew , and the President of this Society , to be dealt with as they should think fit , with the sole object of promoting the knowledge of natural science .
J. D. H. The Rev. Miles Joseph Berkeley , M.A. , F. L.S. , born at Biggin Hall near Oundle , April 1 , 1803 , was the second son of Charles Berkeley , Esq. and his wife , the latter a sister of P. G. Munn , the well-known water-colour artist .
His family belonged to the Spetchley branch of the Berkeleys , and had for several generations been resident in Northamptonshire .
From the Grammar School at Oundle , he was sent to Rugby , and in 1821 was entered at Christ 's College , Cambridge , where he graduated as fifth Senior Optime in 1825 .
He has left it on record that he became attached to natural history at a very early period , and that his scientific tendencies , both zoological and botanical , which had been fostered at Rugby , were further stimulated at Cambridge by-an intimate acquaintance with the late Professor Henslow .
His first clerical duty was the curacy of Thornhaugh , in Northamptonshire , where he was ordained in 1827 ; and in 1830 he became curate of St. John 's , Margate , from which time for upwards X of sixty years Ms labours and writings as a botanist , and especially as .
a mycologist , were continuous .
The Mollusca were , however , the first objects of Berkeley 's study .
As a boy he had made a large conchological collection , and had turned his attention to the structure and habits of the animals of British species .
His earliest scientific paper was " On new species of Modiola and Serpula , " published in the ' Zoological Journal , ' for 1828 .
It was followed by " On the internal structure of Lamarchii " On Dentaliumsubulatum " On the Animals of Valuta and Assiminiaall in the same journal ( 1832-1834 ) ; and " On British Serpulae , " and " Dreissena polymorpha , " in the ' Magazine of Natural History ' ( 1834-6 ) .
At Margate Berkeley 's attention was naturally directed to the study of marine Algae , and in 1833 he brought out his ' Gleanings of British Algae , ' a work devoted to the more obscure and little known species .
In 1836 , at the request of the late Sir W. Hooker , Mr. Berkeley undertook the formidable task of systematizing the British Fungi for that author 's 'British Flora .
' This was a work of great research and labour , which had never before been attempted with any approach to completion .
The " Systema Fungorum " of the illustrious Swedish mycologist , Professor Fries , was adopted in it , and carried out with many additions and improvements .
In 1857 appeared his ' Introduction to Cryptogamic Botany , ' which remained the only standard work of the kind in the English language till the publication last year of Bennett and Murray 's ' Handbook .
' It was followed in 1860 by his ' Outlines of British Fungology , ' and in 1863 by the ' Handbook of British Mosses .
' In 1846 Mr. Berkeley commenced his study of the potato murrain , then ravaging our crops .
The result was the first complete account of its cause , the Peronospora infestans , of which he traced the life history , with the result of demonstrating that the ravages of the disease may be greatly mitigated by early planting and harvesting .
In 1847 he undertook a similar investigation of the grape mildew , which he named Oidiurn Tuckeri .
These were followed by researches on the fungoid diseases of the wheat , cabbage , coffee , hop , pear , and onion , terminating with one on the tomato disease , which appeared in 1884 .
It is not too much to say that this country and our colonies are largely indebted to Mr. Berkeley 's researches and recommendations for the successful cultivation of their crops .
The kindred subject of vegetable pathology next engaged Berkeley 's attention .
It was virgin soil , and a series of admirable papers on the subject which appeared in the ' Gardener 's Chronicle ' between 1854 and 1857 are the foundations of our knowledge of this most difficult and important subject .
They were followed by xi the article ' On the Diseases of Plants ' which he contributed to the ' Cyclopaedia of Agriculture .
' Then a multitude of articles on kindred subjects , on botany and horticulture , appeared from time to time in the ' Gardener 's Chronicle ' between 1840 and 1880 .
Unfortunately they are not recorded in our ' Catalogue of Scientific Papers where , however , Berkeley is credited with upwards of a hundred articles in other periodicals , up to the year 1873 , since which time twenty-one more are on record .
Of Berkeley 's contributions to mycology it is impossible here even to enumerate the more important .
By himself , and in some instances in conjunction with his friend C. E. Broom , Esq. , F.L.S. , of Batheaston , and of M. A. Curtis , for North American Fungi , he published some 6,000 species , including many new genera , from all parts of the world , arctic , antarctic , temperate , and tropical .
Of these there are preserved in his own herbarium 4,886 species , that is , nearly half of the whole number that the herbarium contained .
In 1879 be unconditionally gave his mycological herbarium to Kew , and whether for its extent , its extraordinary richness in types of genera and species , the number of analyses made by himself with which it is enriched , or the extent to which it illustrates the life history of so many of the great pests of agriculture and horticulture , it is unquestionably unique of its kind .
But unprecedented as even his contributions to systematic mycology are in importance , they are far surpassed by the fact , that he was the originator of the study in this country of the life history of fungi , and thus contributed largely to the development of our knowledge of the biological problems now known to depend for their solution on a profound study of the lowest Orders of plants .
Mr. Berkeley was a man of great refinement , an excellent classical scholar , an accomplished man of letters , and an exemplary pastor .
In person he was tall and portly , with a noble head , and he was singularly genial in manner .
There is an excellent portrait of him in the rooms of the Linnean Society .
As may well be supposed , he was one of the most hard working of men .
For many years of his life he eked out his most scanty clerical income by keeping a school of some twenty or thirty boys , who , being boarders , left him only the very early morning for his botanical work , which was regularly commenced at 4 a.m. His life history would not be complete without a further allusion to his spiritual duties .
From Margate he was in 1838 bene-ficed to the perpetual curacy of Apethorpe and Woodnewton , Northamptonshire , the emoluments of which never exceeded \#163 ; 180 per annum .
Meanwhile , however , his merits had attracted the notice of the late Dr. Jeune , Bishop of Peterborough , who had said , that if ever he rose to the bench the first suitable living in his gift should be bestowed on Mr. Berkeley .
This did not occur till 1868 , when Xll the Bishop , true to his promise , presented him to the Vicarage of Sibbertoft , in Northamptonshire , then worth about \#163 ; 400 , but which rapidly dwindled as agricultural distress supervened .
Of private property he had none , and he himself educated his fifteen children , thirteen of whom lived to be over twenty-one years of age .
His works , it need hardly be said , yielded the merest trifle , but he was fortunate in holding examinerships in the University of London , Cambridge , and the Society of Apothecaries ; he was also for several years botanical referee to the Royal Horticultural Society .
In 1863 he received one of the Royal Medals of the Royal Society for his researches on the reproductive organs , in Thallogens , \amp ; c. ; and in 1879 a Civil Service Pension of \#163 ; 100 per annum was awarded him for his investigations on the diseases of agricultural crops , \amp ; c. He was elected a Fellow of the Linnean Society in 1836 , and of this Society in 1879 .
Shortly before his death , which took place at Sibbertoft , on July 30th , 1889 , he was made an Honorary Fellow of his Cambridge College ( Christ 's ) .
He married in 1833 Miss Cecilia Emma Campbell , by whom he had , as stated above , fifteen children , ten of whom survive him .
J. D. H. Sir Robert John Kane , LL. D. , F.R.S. , who died in Dublin on the 16th of February , 1890 , in his eighty-first year , belonged to the distinguished group of chemists whose chief scientific work was accomplished during the first half of the present century .
Sir R. Kane 's contributions to chemical science almost ceased after 1850 , when his official relations with the Irish Government drew off his attention to the economic and educational problems of the time .
His scientific knowledge , scholarly attainments , and experience were then freely utilised by the State in the efforts made to establish the system of education which was , until very recently , represented by the Queen 's University and its Colleges at Cork , Belfast , and Galway .
Born in 1809 at Dublin , where his father had established a chemical factory , young Kane was educated in his native city , and ultimately ( in 1835 ) graduated in Arts at the University , whose LL. D. degree was subsequently conferred upon him condonatis ) .
The family connexion with industrial chemistry seems to have early attracted him to scientific pursuits , and the first results of his chemical work appeared in 1829 , in the form of two short papers on Native Compounds of Manganese , including the description of an arsenide of manganese , since known as " Kaneite .
" But before the publication of these papers Kane had commenced the study of medicine , apparently with a view to adopt it as a profession , for he became clinical clerk to Graves and Stokes at the then celebrated Mead Hospital , in Dublin , and went to Paris in 1830 to continue his medixiii cal work .
Here , however , he attended Chevreul 's lectures , and became acquainted with the brilliant Dumas , whose enthusiasm seems to have revived the young Irishman 's love for chemistry , and decided his choice of a scientific rather than a medical career .
Shortly after returning to Dublin , in 1831 , Kane obtained the Lecturership in Chemistry at the medical school then maintained by the Apothecaries ' Company of Ireland , and this office he held until 1843 .
Most of his time was now devoted to scientific teaching and investigation , while a portion was occupied in completing his studies in Medicine and Arts .
Although he never practised as a physician , he obtained the licence of the Dublin College of Physicians in 1835 , and was elected to the Fellowship of that body in 1843 .
When fairly established in professorial work Kane commenced the examination of some compounds of the metal platinum , and published accounts of the stannous chloroplatinite , of a substance which he regarded as platinoso-platinic iodide , Pt3I\lt ; \gt ; , and of other bodies , in the ' Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science .
' But his work ou the salts of some of the complex platinum bases derived from ammonia only appeared at the end of a paper in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1842 , entitled " Contributions to the Chemical History of Palladium and Platinum .
" This paper was chiefly concerned with the compounds of palladium , of which he described a suboxide and a corresponding chloride , Pd3C13 ; while the action of alkalies on palladious chloride , PdCl3 , afforded several basic substances which he regarded as definite compounds .
In the course of the same investigation Kane produced a number of interesting bodies by the action of ammonia on the salts of palladium , which doubtless included derivatives of the bases palladamine and palladiamine , subsequently recognised by Dr. Hugo Muller in his fine investigation of similar interactions .
During the " thirties " much progress was made in evolving order out of the apparently chaotic masses of organic compounds .
Early in the decade Dumas had propounded his ephemeral " etherine " theory of ordinary alcohol and its derivatives ; Liebig and Wohler had been led to recognise the existence of compound radicals ; and , later on , the laws of substitution were made out by Dumas , and the theory of types was proposed .
Kane 's acquaintance with Dumas and association with Liebig\#151 ; in whose laboratory he sometimes worked during the summer months\#151 ; led him to take an active part in the discussions of the time , and to propose the theory of the nature of common ether and alcohol which now prevails\#151 ; namely , that they include the radical ethyl , C3H5 .
It is true that Berzelius arrived at the same conclusion about the same time , and worked out the subject with his usual thoroughness ; but Kane claimed to be the independent discoverer of what was then termed the " Ethyl Theory .
" xiv The inquiries being pursued , at the period of which we write , with regard to compounds of the alcoholic class , led Kane to re-examine pyroxylic , or wood , spirit , which had already been investigated by Dumas and by Liebig , though these chemists had obtained somewhat discordant results .
Liebig 's products were shown by Kane to be impure , as the alcohol used seemed to contain some methylal , ethylene dimethylate , and other bodies .
Kane then succeeded in arranging the process for separating nearly pure methyl alcohol from wood spirit with which his name is now generally connected .
The success of his method depends on a fact which he had observed , namely , that methyl alcohol forms a definite and crystallisable compound with calcium chloride which is not decomposed at 100 ' C. in absence of water ; hence dehydrated wood spirit , when saturated with anhydrous calcium chloride , can have nearly all its volatile impurities distilled off , leaving the calcium chloride compound with methyl alcohol ; the latter , if then mixed with water , , is decomposed , so that a second distillation affords nearly pure methyl alcohol which only needs dehydration .
From the alcohol so obtained Kane prepared and described several salts of methyl-sulphuric acid .
Among the volatile compounds mentioned above as bye-products from the purification of methyl alcohol was the liquid now termed acetone , but then , generally , " pyroacetic spirit .
" At the time ( 1836-7 ) acetone was known to consist of C3H60 , * but the nature of the compound was undetermined ; and this problem Kane sought to solve .
The results of his investigation led him to conclude that acetone is a hydrate analogous to ethyl alcohol , but containing a radical which he named " mesityl " = C3H5 .
A number of derivatives were prepared by Kane from the impure " pyroacetic spirit " he worked with , which seemed to support his view of the nature of acetone .
Thus he obtained an oxide which he named " mesityl oxide , " f because it was apparently related in composition to acetone as ethyl oxide is to ethyl alcohol ; again , by dehydrating acetone a hydrocarbide resulted whose empirical formula proved to be C3H4 this he named " mesitylene , " as in composition and mode of generation it seemed to arise from mesityl alcohol ( acetone ) as ethylene , C3H4 , does from ethyl alcohol .
Later on , as new facts were discovered about acetone , it became evident that the alcoholic hypothesis was not consistent with them , for the compound was found to possess aldehydic rather than alcoholic characters .
According to the newer view acetone was acetyl * C6H502 according to the atomic weights for carbon and oxygen then used .
t Later on Kane discovered a liquid product of the action of heat on acetone , which he named " Dumasine .
" This has since been proved by Fittig to be isomeric with mesityl oxide .
X Hofmann has shown that this important body , which Kane discovered , has the molecular formula C8H12 ( =3C3H4 ) , and is symmetrical trimethylbenzene .
methide , ordinary aldehyde being acetyl hydride ; this received powerful support from Williamson 's study of the genesis of acetone and its homologues by heating barium salts of the fatty acids ; while Freund 's synthesis of acetone by means of zinc ethide and acetyl chloride , together with the work of Boutlerow , Fried el , and Crafts , involved a further modification , so that acetone and its homologues are now simply regarded as compounds of carbonyl with two alcohol radicals .
Thus the difficult problem undertaken by Kane more than half a century ago , when very vague notions prevailed as to the constitution of some of our most common carbon compounds , required the more powerful methods of modern chemistry for its complete solution .
The derivatives of ammonia early attracted Professor Kane 's attention , as his friend Dumas had shown in 1830 that oxamide , C202(NH2)2 , included the ammonia residue NH2 , which he termed amide ; and that many substances existed which might be supposed to contain the same group .
Kane , starting with this general idea , commenced the examination of a number of inorganic compounds which might contain the group NH2 .
The most interesting of these is the " white precipitate of mercury , " which had long been known , and about whose composition conflicting statements were made .
Kane studied the formation of that body with great care , and showed that a definite compound free from oxygen could be obtained under proper conditions , whose composition is represented by the formula HgNH2Cl .
He was led by his work on this substance , and on similar compounds of other metals , to conclude that the three atoms of hydrogen in ammonia , KH3 , are not removed with equal readiness in chemical exchange , and that ammonia is , in fact , the hydride of a persistent group , NH2 , which he termed amidogene .
Kane 's amidogene theory , and its consequences as affecting the view taken of the constitution of ammoniacal salts , attracted great interest at the time .
That Berzelius attached much importance to Kane 's work is evident from the remark attributed to him in Wohler 's ' Jahresbericht ' for 1838 , " Diese Untersuchungen von Kane gehoren meiner Ansicht nach zu den wichtigeren des verflossenen Jahres .
" Although subsequent investigations of Wurtz , Hofmann , and many others have shown that the three atoms of hydrogen in ammonia can be successively replaced by methyl or ethyl without affording the metameric mono- or di-substituted derivatives which might be expected to exist on the amidogene theory , it is interesting to note that Curtius , working nearly fifty years after Kane 's papers were published , has succeeded in obtaining the hydrate of diamidogene , NH2\#151 ; NHo , or as it is now termed hydrazine .
Kane was awarded the Cunningham Medal of the Royal Irish Academy in 1843 for his researches on the above subject .
XVI In 1841 Kane received the Royal Medal of this Society for his work published in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' for 1840 on the chemical history of the well-known substances archil and litmus , which are colouring matters obtained from various lichens of the Bocella , Variolaria , and other genera .
When the lichens are allowed to ferment in presence of ammoniacal salts , they soon afford the magnificent purple-red colouring matter termed But if carbonates of the alkalies are present during the process of fermentation , blue litmus results .
The two colouring matters were previously examined by Robiquet , Heeren , and Dumas , yet Kane carried the investigation much further , and not only improved the methods of separating some of the substances present in the impure pigments , but endeavoured to trace them to proximate constituents of certain of the lichens .
In the course of this laborious investigation he obtained a number of new substances which he regarded as definite compounds .
The general result of the inquiry was that the red " orceine " of archil , and the blue substance of litmus , named by Kane " azolitmin , " differ only by one atom of oxygen , the blue coloured body containing most oxygen ; and that both colouring matters are products of the action of ammonia and atmospheric air , in presence of a ferment , on orcin already free in the lichens or resulting from the hydrolysis of some of their constituents .
In 1842 Kane published an account of his examination of the colouring matter of the berries of , one of the buckthorns , which were imported in considerable quantities from the Levant for dyeing , under the name of " Persian berries .
" From these when in the unripe state he isolated a golden-yellow colouring matter , which he named chrysorhamnine , and from the ripe berries , olive-yellow xanthorhamnine , and showed that the latter results from the action of oxygen and the elements of water on chrysorhamnine .
Plant products always seemed to have a great attraction for Kane , and amongst others the volatile oils , with which he worked much from time to time , though he published little about them , as he found greater difficulty than he anticipated in arriving at a " law connecting the composition of the secretions of plants of the same genus or natural family .
" But he made some useful contributions to our knowledge of these oils , as well as to that of other minor subjects , which the limits of this notice do not permit us to specify in detail .
In 1843 Kane was appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy to the Royal Dublin Society , and during the following year published his 'Elements of Chemistry , ' a work which well represented the general theories and the practice of the science at the time .
But his connexion with the Royal Dublin Society\#151 ; a body which has always been foremost in seeking to develop agriculture and industry in xvii Ireland\#151 ; gave a new direction to liis energies .
He commenced a protracted investigation of the " relations of the country to the prime materials of the chemical and metallic manufactures , " and was led much beyond the original limits of his inquiry " to discuss several important statistical and moral problems affecting the industrial progress of Ireland .
" The first part of the investigation involved a large amount of analytical work on native ores and raw materials , and the results were embodied in a course of lectures delivered before the Royal Dublin Society .
In these lectures it was also pointed out that foreign Governments fostered native industries with anxious care , and that Continental nations were in consequence making giant strides in manufacturing activity , while our own Government did little or nothing to develop the resources of the country .
These lectures wrere published in 1844 , and excited such interest that ' The Industrial Resources of Ireland ' quickly reached a second edition , and the Government of the day shortly after made one step forward in the direction indicated by^ Kane in establishing a " Museum of Irish Industry , " at St. Stephen 's Green , of which he was made the first Director .
In this office he devoted much time to the development of the museum under his control , and especially to the establishment of evening lectures , and practical instruction for artisans and others who could not attend day classes .
This excellent technical scientific school proved a most important adjunct to the museum , and supplied a definite want ; it continued its valuable , if humble , work until converted into the " Royal College of Science for Ireland .
" The honour of knighthood was conferred on the subject of this memoir in 1846 , and in 1849 Sir Robert Kane was elected to the Fellowship of the Royal Society .
In the latter year Sir Robert 's official connexion with the Museum of Irish Industry almost ceased , as he went to Cork in the capacity of President of the Queen 's College , then recently established in that city .
The duties of that important office he zealously performed until 1873 , when he resigned , and returned to Dublin , where he afterwards lived in comparative retirement .
Although Sir Robert Kane 's official engagements prevented the pursuit of his old work , he continued his connexion with the ' Philosophical Magazine , ' one of whose Editors he was from 1840 .
After his return to Dublin , in 1873 , Sir Robert became a Commissioner of Rational Education ; he also took much interest in the work of the various societies of the Irish metropolis .
He was for some years President of the Royal Geological Society of Ireland , and from 1877 to 1882 of the Royal Irish Academy ; he occupied a seat on the Academic Council of Dublin University , and on the Senate of the Royal University .
In the various public positions which Sir Robert Kane filled during a long and distinguished career , his natural xviii courtesy and diplomatic skill enabled him to disarm much opposition to reforms which his mature judgment and statesmanlike grasp of affairs led him to suggest .
Notwithstanding advanced years , Sir Robert Kane 's health was generally good , but the end came after a very short illness , and one morning last February many gathered at his funeral to honour the memory of one whose scientific reputation belonged to a past generation , and whose later life was largely devoted to the advancement of his country 's material interests .
J. E. R.

