424 Prof. M. Simpson the Formation of [ May 23 , It is then shown that the effects of inertia , which had been neglected in finding the laws of the tidal movements , cannot be snch as to mate-rially affect the accuracy of the results .
In the first part of this paper I followed Sir W. Thomson in using the equilibrium theory for the determination of the amount of reduction of ocean tides .
But that theory is acknowledged on all hands to be very faulty in its explanation of tides of short period ; hence a dynamical investigation of the effects of a bodily yielding of the earth on a tide of short period in a shallow equatorial canal appeared likely to be interesting .
This investigation is carried out in the second part of the paper .
The problem is simplified by supposing the circular canal developed into a straight canal , whose bottom is constrained to execute a simple harmonic wave motion .
The result shows that the height of the ocean tide relatively to the nucleus bears the same relation to the height of tide on a rigid nucleus as in the equilibrium theory , and that the alteration of phase is the same .
This seems to increase the force of Sir W. Thomson 's argument as to the rigidity of the earth .
The chief practical result of this paper may be summed up by saying , that it is strongly confirmatory of the view that the earth has a very great effective rigidity ; but its chief value is , that it forms a necessary first chapter to the investigation of the precession of viscous and imperfectly elastic spheroids\#151 ; an investigation which I hope to complete very shortly .
VI .
" On the Formation of Chlor-iodide and Brom-iodide of Ethylidene .
" By Dr. Maxwell Simpson , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry , Queen 's College , Cork .
Received May 7 , 1878 .
( Preliminary Notice .
) CH3 Chlor-iodide of ethylidene | .
This body I have succeeded in CHC1I preparing by two processes .
First Process.\#151 ; A quantity of iodide of ethylidene , which had been prepared by Gustavson 's method , and heated to 160 ' C. but not distilled , was vigorously agitated for some time with a weak solution of chloride of iodine without the application of heat .
The excess of chloride was then poured off , and the product well washed with dilute potash and distilled .
Almost the entire quantity passed over between 110 and 150 ' C. This yielded , on fractioning , a large quantity of fluid boiling between 116 and 120 ' C. , most between 117 and 119 .
' This was the body in question .
The chloride of iodine used in this process was 1878.1 Chlor-iodide and Brom-iodide of Ethylidene .
425 prepared by passing washed chlorine into 4 oz. of water , holding 400 grains of iodine in suspension , till almost all the iodine was dissolved .
The vessel containing the iodine must be surrounded with cold water , ind repeatedly shaken during the passage of the gas .
This method is quite analogous to that by which I obtained its isomer , the chlorio-dide of ethylene.* Second Process.\#151 ; One molecule of iodide of aluminium ( A12I6 ) was dissolved in three times its weight of dry carbon disulphide , and added drop by drop without exposure to air to six molecules of chloride of ethylidene ( C2H4C12 ) diluted with an equal volume of the disulphide .
The chloride of ethylidene must be surrounded with ice , and kept in a state of continual agitation during the addition of the aluminium iodide solution .
By mixing the reacting bodies in this way , the chloride is always in excess , and only one atom of chlorine in each molecule is supplanted by one of iodine .
After the addition of the aluminium iodide , the product was filtered through asbestos , washed with water , and heated in a water-bath to drive off the carbon disulphide.f The residue , which had been previously washed with dilute potash , on being heated above 100 ' , commenced to distil at 110 ' , and between that temperature and 155 ' C. about two-thirds of it passed over .
( The liquid distilling above 155 ' was iodide of ethylidene ) .
This yielded , on fractioning , a large quantity of an oil boiling at the same temperature , and having the same properties as that prepared by the first process .
On submitting this body to analysis I obtained the following numbers : Theory C2H4C1I .
Experiment .
Carbon ... ... ... ... ... . .
12*60 ... ... ... 12*92 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... . .
2 *10 ... ... . .
2 *23 Chlor-iodide of ethylidene has a sweet taste , and is almost colourless when freshly prepared .
Its specific gravity at 19 ' C. is = 2*054 .
It distils without decomposition between 117 and 119 C. It will be observed that its boiling point is 20 degrees lower than that of its isomer , the chlor-iodide of ethylene ( 137 ' C. ) , and is intermediate between those of the iodide ( 177 ' C. ) and chloride of ethylidene ( 58 ' C. ) .
Of these processes , the second is easier of execution and yields a larger product .
CH3 Brom-iodide of ethylidene I .
This body I obtained also from CHBrI the iodide of ethylidene , and by a process almost identical with the * 3 ?
roc .
Roy .
Soc. , xi , 590 .
+ It is advisable to use Wiirtz 's tube with two bulbs in distilling the carbon dir .
sulphide , as a large quantity of the chlor-iodide passes over with the disulphide when the distillation is conducted in the usual way .
VOL. XXVII .
^ F Prof. H. E. Roscoe on the Specific Gravity of [ May 23 , first used for the preparation of chlor-iodide of ethylidene .
The iodide was agitated in the cold for some time with a weak solution of bromide of iodine , * the excess of bromide was separated , and the product was washed with dilute potash .
On subjecting this to distillation almost the entire quantity passed over between 130 and 165 ' C. On fractioning I obtained a large quantity of fluid distilling between 140 and 148 ' , most between 142 and 144 ' .
The following equation explains the formation of this compound : CH3 ch3 | + BrI= | +11 .
CHI2 CHBrI On analysing this body I obtained the following results : Theory CgH^Brl .
Experiment .
Carbon ... ... ... ... ... .
10 '21 ... ... . .
10 '24 Hydrogen ... ... ... ... . .
1 1-82 Brom-iodide of ethylidene is nearly colourless when freshly prepared .
It has a sweet taste , and distils without decomposition between 142 and 144 ' C. This is about 20 degrees lower than the boiling point of its isomer , the brom-iodide of ethylene ( 163 ' C. ) .
It refuses to become solid even when surrounded with a mixture of ice and salt , differing in this respect also from its isomer .
Heated with alcoholic potash it yielded a volatile vapour containing bromine , probably bromide of vinyl , and iodide of potassium .
This body is probably identical with those obtained by Pfaundlerf and by ReboulJ by exposing bromide of vinyl to the action of hydri-odic acid .
The boiling points of their compounds agree pretty well with each other and also with mine .
I am at present engaged in studyiug the behaviour of these compounds towards several reagents .
I have to thank my young pupil , Mr. Harrington , for his valuable assistance during the progress of this research .
VII .
" Note on the Specific Gravity of the Vapours of the Chlorides of Thallium and Lead .
" By Henry E. Roscoe , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in Owens College , Manchester .
Received May 8 , 1878 .
Experimental difficulties of so serious a nature surround the attempt * For the preparation of the bromide of iodine , see Proc. Roy .
Soc. , No. 149 , 1874 .
It was made a little weaker for this process , f " Jahresbericht , " 1865 , p. 483 .
% Ibid. , 1870 , p. 439 .

