]\gt ; 1891 .
] The Registration of Colour .
227 paper , and called a focometer .
It has ) constructed to the author 's designs by Messrs. Nalder Brothers , to whom sundry of the mechanlcal details due .
The paper also describes the results obtained with the upon various lenses , some of them eing microscope , others camera lenses .
The author finds several of these lenses that ] principal planes are .
the distance } ) etween the symmetric oints being less than four times the focal lengtl ] .
In some other lenses ) are achr matic in respect of bringing all rftys to a common principal focus , the ions of the principal planes are different for rays of different colours .
In one lens , a microscope objective by Reicbert , the principal planes not only ossed but are actually at a greater distance apart than the two incipal foci .
The paper is accompanied by a sheet of full-size drawings showing he tion of the instrument and its details .
IV .
The Nunlcrical of Note By ptain W. DE , D.C.L. , Received February The Committec of tbc ) Society on Vision having put my hands the mination of the colou of certain signal glasses , memorandulll was up on the method of numerical registration of colours and io cm .
Th considered that it hold ) submitted to the Roy So iety , and slightly modified it , it is presented as a prelilninary noto of a part of a papel which will be bsequently s by Festing and myself Part II [ of " " Colour Photometry It must be premised at a colour is determined when its hue , its purity , and ils OSit y are known , ] nstant being its comparison with the wlIitc ] rrht b its a transparent coloured body , or with light reflected from a white surface if it be an opaque coloured body such as a pigment .
There has hitherto been a certain amount of difficulty on part of normal-eyed persons ating the exact hue of compound colours in terms of any tlJdard ; in fact , I bolievo , except ) hc method given in the Second Part of ' Colour Pllotometry\ldquo ; ( ' Phil. Trans 1888 ) , thers has been no exact means dicated of reproducing a colour from ements m ) method which ill be describe can take place of } previous fur purposes , more particularly when it is the impl.ession on the eye which has to be idered .
Any colour can be reproduced from the registration with the exactness .
To persons who are totally colonl.-blind to oIlC sensation , , the Normal .
Oreen colour-blind .
Red colour.blind .
Red . . . . . . . . . . . .
Red . . . . . . . . . . .
Green . . . . . . . . . .
\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . .
Green .
Violet . . . . . . . . . .
Violet .
Mixtures of red and green Mixtures of red Mixtures of red and violet . . . . . .
and violet .
Mixtures of green \mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . .
Mixtures of green and violet Mixtures of red , \mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . .
violet gleen , and violet 1891 .
] The Numerical Registration of C'olour .
229 and mixing them , we can give the same impression to the eye that any compound colour gives , and that of any intermediate simple colour buf very slightly diluted with white light .
With these same three colours , but in different proportions , we can also give the impressio1l of white light to the eye .
The intermediate spectrum coIours between the green and the violeb rays selected , when slightly diluted , are imitated by mixing these together in different ions , and similarly those lying between the red and the green by mixing together these rays in different proportions\mdash ; and there is some ray present in the spectrum which , when very slightly diluted with white light , has the same ific effect on the as the mixtures of the pairs and G and in any proportions whatever .
Let the luminosities of the rays , and which ] give the impression of white light , be , and units respectively , and , and those which give that cf the colonr which has to be registered and reproduced .
We then get the following where W white , its luminosity , the colour , and its nosi by\mdash ; .
( i ) ; . . . . .
( ii ) .
Then evidently\mdash ; Then we may write ( ii ) as\mdash ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
( iii ) .
Now , either , or must be smaller than the other two .
As an example , if be the smallest , we multiply ( i ) by , when we get\mdash ; .
( iv ) .
Subtracting ( iv ) from ( iii ) , we get\mdash ; Now , it has eady been stated that between there it some ray which gives the same senf , ation of colour , mixed with a very smalI quantity of white light , as the above mixture of and G\mdash ; Jet us call it and its osity x being evidently to , and the luminosity of the small quantity of white added .
We then get but and eacb equal ; ; Now , between and in the spectrum there is some single colorr which gives the sensation of the mixture of and .
Let it be with luminosity ogether with white , whose luminosity is , whibh equals .
; 1891 .
] Registration of Colou 2.31 the colour of this last patch is approximately the same hue as that the glass .
In the patb of the reflected beam , but between the prism and the silvered mirrol , is inserted a piece of ] glass , which be made to reIlect part of the white ] omatic patch of light , a squsxe patch of this white ] ight being formed by of a third lens .
We thus have monocl1romatic light mixed with white light .
The requisite ensity of the added white can bo adjusl , ed by means of rotating open and close at will ( llring rotation , and the luminosity of the mixed beam can be altered by this , together with the adjustabl } sJit in ] slide , The slit may probably have to be move in the spectrnm to the hue of these mixed lights the same as of the glass , } ) by trial the position of the ray , whose colour , when diluted with white light , makes the match , is readily found .
The position of ttJe s in the is , as also the aperture of sectors .
The relative luminosities of the beam reflected from the plain glass mir 0 and of the coloured ray are next ) sured by plaring a rod in the path of the two beams , and equalising by the sectors the luminosity of the shadows which are illuminated , the one by the spectral ray , the other by the white light .
When the sector apel.ture is noted istration is ccmplefe , as far as hue is concerned , but the luminosi tie of the ray transmitted through the glass old be compared with that of the unabsorbed reflected bealn , and the total luminosity is doubly recorded .
Should the colour of a pigment be in question , the ray reflected from the silvered mirror is made to fall on the pigmented surface , and the same procedure adopted .
Should a purple glass ( say ) have to be registered , we proceed in a ightly different manner , the patch of colour light the purple glass is superposed over the spectrum patch , and the slit in slide is moved till a ray is fonnd which will make white when superposed on the colour of the glass .
The luminosities of this white light , of reflected beam , and of the spectral colour , are compared se , and there then suffioie1Jt data on which to make ogistration .
In the paper which will be submittsd the Royal Society , and of part of which this is a preliminary note , the details of registration will be entered into more fully .
The signal glasses having to be used at night with oil or gas , their hue must be registered in these ghts .
As the speclrnm colours are always the same , it is convenient to use the electric spectrum , and the only teration in the apparatus to use gas lights to ill nats two square apertures , in front of one , of which the lass , colour has to be measured , is placed .
The nages of these apertures are thrown on the screen , the coloured touening the xLIL determ ined .
The following are the deternnn : glasses submitted to the Committee The following are determinations of some coloured pigments in the light:\mdash ; 1891 .
] Presents .
The determination of the colours in ] 's disks by this plan enables them to be used much more effectively than if they are simply indeterminate .
For since the sum of the luminosibies of any colours is equal to the luminosity of the same colours integrated , it follows tha when using the disks the colours of the dominant wave-lengtl1s are really mixed and the white light inherent in each case can be deducted .
Presents , , 1891 .
Transactions .
Cambridge , Mass .
Harvard College .
of Zoolog7 .
Bulletin .
Vol. .
No. 7 .
Cambrilqe 1890 .
The Museum .
Catania :Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali .
Bullettino Mensile .
Fasc .
15 .
1890 .
Tb Academy .
Dresden:\mdash ; K. Leop.-Carol .
Deutsche Akademie scber .
Verhandlungcn .
Bd .
LIV . .
Halle 1890 ; poldina .
Heft 25 . .
Bal\amp ; 1889 .
The Academy .
Giessen:\mdash ; Universitac .
Akademische Schriften .
1887-1889 .
and .
Giessen .
The University .
Heidelberg:\mdash ; Universitat .
kademische Schriften .
1888\mdash ; 1890 . .
Heidelberg .
The University .
Iiel : .
Igral-Dissertationen .
and .
Kiel , .
The University .
London :Phal maceutical Society of Britain .
Calendar 1891 . .
London .
The Society .
Roysl Agricultural Society of ] .
Journal .
Ser. 3 .
Vol. I. Part 4 .
1890 .
The Society .
Royal United Service Institution .
Journal .
Vol. XXXV .
No. 156 . .
London 1891 .
The Institution .
Louvain:\mdash ; Universite .
Publications Academiqucs des The iversity .
nster Universit , -Dissertationen .
1887-1890 .
and .
Munster , .
The iversity .
OdeSha:\mdash ; Societe des istes de la Bussie .
M6nloires .
] Tomes .
( Party 2 .
) ( Party 1-2 .
) .
Odessa 1889-1890 .
nathique .
Table par The Articles contenus dans les ries des Bulletins 18:$6 a 1888 . .
Paris 1890 .
The Society .
Rostock:\mdash ; Uiversitat .
A miscb e Schriften aus 1l Jahren and \mdash ; Universitat .
8 vo and 4 [ Various dates , The University .

