VIII .
A preternatural Perforation found in the upper Part of the Stomach , with the Symptoms it produced , by Mr. Christopher Rawlinson , Surgeon .
JAmes Skidmore had complained for Three or Four Years last past , of a violent Pain in his Stomach and Bowels , never being able to rest in his Bed at Night , 'till he had vomited up the greatest Part of what he had eat or drank the Day before .
He would often compare his Pain to some great Weight laying upon the Region of the Stomach , which he in some Measure alleviated , by pressing hard with his Hand upon that Part .
When he turned himself in Bed from one Side to the other , he told me , he could plainly perceive that some Fluid or other fell down with Noise to the depending Side ; which Fluid he believed to be the Occasion of all his Misery : For which Reason he often said , he would willingly consent , nay , often earnestly pressed that the Surgeons would cut him open ( as he expressed it ) and let it out .
He had no apparent Tumour upon the Part , nor was his Belly more extended than usual .
He had had the Advice of several able Physicians before he came into the Hospital , but all without the least Amendment to his Disease .
When he died we were desired to open him , and try if we could find out the Cause of his Complaints .
As soon as we had penetrated the Peritonaeum , there flowed out a whitish Liquor , not much unlike to Whey , only a little more thick and faeculent ; nor did it emit so noisome a Smell as might be expected from its long Residence in that Place .
We computed there were above Four Quarts of this Liquor contained in the Cavity of the Abdomen .
When we came at the Stomach we found it perforated in its upper Part , about the middle Space betwixt the Two Orifices , wide enough to contain the End of one 's Finger .
We cut it open Length-ways , and found it pretty full of a thick glutinous Matter , inclining to be yellow ; and to its inner Coat , on the lower Side , there firmly adhered the Stone of a Prune , or some other Fruit resembling it .
On its Inside , near the preternatural Perforation , it was gangreen 'd for two or three Inches ; and on the other Side of the Perforation there was an Ulcer near the same Bigness .
The whole Stomach was a great deal thicker than usual ; but that Part next the Pylorus was above Four Times thicker than in a natural State .
It adhered closely to all the Parts about it ; and to the Pancreas it was so firmly tied down , that it could not be separated without tearing .
The Spleen did not exceed a Quarter of an Ounce in Weight .
The Pancreas was schirrous , tho ' pretty near its natural Size .
In the Liver and Kidneys there was no apparent Defect ; nor had the Parts in the Thorax received any visible Alteration , except that the Lungs adhered more firmly to the Pleura than usual .
The Intestines and all the Viscera contained in the Abdomen were of a whiter Colour than usual , by being so long sodden in the Liquor they floated in .

