]\gt ; IlIay 2 , 1901 .
Sir WILLIAM HUGGINS , K.C.B. , D.C.L. , President , in the Chair .
A List of the Presents received laid on the table , and thanks dered for them .
In pursuance of the Statutes , the names of the Candidates recommcnded for election into the Society were read , as follows:\mdash ; The following Papers were Alcock , Professor Alfred Yilliam , Dyson , Frank lVatson , vans , John , Gregory , Professor John Walter , D. Sc. Jackson , Henry Bradwardinc , Captain , R.N. Macdonald , Hector Manselgh , James , M.Inst .
C.E. Alcock , Professor Alfred Yilliam , Dyson , Frank lVatson , vans , John , Gregory , Professor John Walter , D. Sc. Jackson , Henry Bradwardinc , Captain , R.N. Macdonald , Hector Manselgh , James , M.Inst .
C.E. lIartin , Prof. ) James , onald , Major , retired ) .
Schlich , Professor Villiam , C.I.E. Smithells , Professor Arthur , Thom , Jichael R. Oldfield , F. / .
S. atson , yilliam , B.Sc. ]yhctlJam , C. mpicr , , Arthur Smith , F.G.S. I. " " On the Variation in adntion of a Developed Photographic Image when impressed ) Ionochromatic L of -lengths.\ldquo ; By Sir W. , K.C.B. , F.R. II .
" " llipsoidal Harmonic By G. H. } III .
" " On the SmalI Vertical cmcn ts of a Stone on the Surface of the By .
Communicated b.y , .
.Lllipsoidal rmonic ] ) .
H. 1 ) , ] of in the of 1901 .
fnllctions h in in which they ) ) to cndcr ]lumcric:l tion so to ) objcct of this per is to hc ) in ) giving to the functions such forms as shall render numerical results accessible .
Throughout the vork I have enjoyed the immense advantage of frequent discussions with Mr. E. W. Hobson , and I have to thank him not only for many valnable suggestions also for assistance in obtaining various specific results .
1Iy object in cking this problem the hope of being thercby enabled obtain exact numerical results as to M. Poincare 's shaped figure of equilibrium of rotating liquid .
But it soon bec ms cIear that partial investigation with one icular object in view was impracticable , and I was led on to ' the whole field , leaviIlg the consideralion of the particular problem to some future occasion .
The usual symmetrical forms of the three fnnctions whose product is a solid ellipsoidal such as to render pnrely analytical investigations both elegant and conveIlient .
Bnt it seemed facility for coml ) ntation might ) ined by the surrendcr of symmetry , and this idea is followed out in the paper .
The success attained in the of analysis suggested that it should be taken as the point of departure for the treatment of ellipsoids with three mequal axes .
spheroidal hal.nonics nc start with a fundamental prolate ellipsoid of revolution , with axes k. The position of a point is then defined by three co-ordinates ; the first of these , , is such that its reciprocal is the eccentricity of a meridional section of ellipsoid confocal with he fundamental ellipsoid and passing through the point .
Since eccentricity diminishes we recede from the origin , plays the part of a reciprocal to the radius vcctor .
The second is the cohine of the xiliary a ) in the meridio1lal ellipse mc from the ttxis of symmetry .
It thel.efore plays the of sine of latitude .
The third is simply the .
The three co-ordinates may then ) edescl.ibed as the titudinaI , and ] dinates .
The tmeter l the absolute scale on hich the figure is It is equally to stal't with mdamontal oblate cllipsoid with real semi axcs O. ) should then take the first , as such that .
All that follows wonld then ) in order not to the statement by refcrencc to forms , the first form is taken as a In the paper a closely is adopted for the ] of thrcc llncqutl axcs .
The of the semi-axcs of the mental cllipsoid are to ) ' , thtl the -ordinates are still 1\ldquo ; -ls ) might cqn ) hosc of '- , , and replaoc by ) .
All ) Prof. G. H. Darwin .
ellipsoids are comprised in either of these types by making vary from zero to infinity .
But it is shown that , by a proper choice of type , possible ellipsoids comprised in a range of from zero to onethird .
When is zero we have the spheroids for which harmonic analysis already exists , and when is equal to one-third the ellipsoid is such that the mean axis is the square root of mean square of the extreme axes .
We may then regard as not greater than one-third , and may conveniently make developmsnts in powers of In spheroidal analysis , for space internal to an ellipsoid , two of the three functions are the same -functions that occurs in spherical one function of , the other of .
The third fumction is a cosine or sine of a multiple of the longitude .
For external space the metion of is replaced by a metion , being a solution of the differential equation of the second kind .
The like is true in ellipsoidal analysis , and we have P- and Q-functions of for internal external space , a -function of , and a cosine- or sine-function of .
For the moment we will only consider the -functions , and consider the ctions later .
There eight cases which are determined the evenness or of the degree and of the order of the harmonic , and by the alternative of whether they correspond a cosine- or sinefimction of ( .
These eight types are indicated ) the initials , or ; for example , EOS means the type in hich i is is odd , and that there is association lvith a sine-function .
It appears that the new -functions two forms .
The first form , vritten , is to bs expressible in a finite serics in terms of when the 's are ordinary functions of spherical analysis .
torms in this series are in powers of , so that the coefficient of as part of its coefficient .
The second form ] , written , is snch that or is cxprcssible by a scries of the same form as that for .
Amongst the eight types .
involve -fimctions and fonr -functions ; and if given -fimction is associated a cosiIle-fnnction , the ssociated with a sine-fullction , and Lastly , -function of is always ssociated 1 a -fnnction of altd the like is true of the Agaiu , the sine-functions two forms .
In the first form .
are either ) odd or both even , and the nlction ritten or is cxpressed a series of terms of a coefficient mnltiplied or ) .
In the second form , and diffcr as to oddness , and function itton C or is ' series nlnltiplied by } .
The of the two forms of ction the four forms of cosinc and sine-function gives the cight types of harmonic .
Ellipsoidal Harmonic sis .
Corresponding to the two forms of metion there are two forms of -function , such that and arc expressil ) ] a series of ordinary -functions ; whereas the selies for are terminable , because vanishes where ] is than , this is not the case with the -functions .
In spherical and oidal the differcntial eqnntion satisfied ] ) involves the integer wherel ) the order is spccified .
So here also the differentiial equations , satisfied by or ) , or , involve a ; but it is no longer an ' It seemed convenient to assnme as the form for this constant , lvherc is the known integer specifying the order of harmonic , and remains to be from the differential tions .
When the assumed forms for the -fimction and for the sine-functions are substitnted in the differential tions , it is fonnd that , in order to tisfy the equations , be eqnal to the difference between continued fractions , each of hich involves have an equation for , and the required root is that which vanishes when vanishes .
For the harmonics of degrees , 1 , 2 , 3 and for orders may ) found rigorously in form , but for higher degrees the can only be solved approximately , unless have a nnmerical value .
yhen has been determined either rigorously or appl'oximatcly , the successive coeffioients of the series are determinable in such a that the ratio of each coefficient to the preceding one is expressed ) a lled fraction , which is in fact portion of one of the two fr tions olved in the equation Throughout the rest of the the greater part of the is carried out with approximate forms , and , it would be easy to to greater accnrttcy , it seemed snfficicnt in the first instance to limit he development to .
lyith this limitation the coefficients of the scries assume simple forms , we thus have definite , if approxi , expressions for all the metions which call in ] ysis .
In rigorous expressions are differcnt from one other , in npproximate forms , when is certain intcger dependent on the degrce of pproximation , the } are the same thing difle1ent , except to facto The ctor whereby is colltcrtible i11to or into therefore detcrmirlc to of yith the degrce of tpproxinlation aloptc there is no ctor for ) tho 's when , 2 , 1 .
, down to , the factor for convcrtirtg ' into 1 , one fornt is necded ) into other VOL. Ellipsoidal rmonic A ' changing into S. It may be wcll to note that there is no sincfunction when is zero .
The use of these factors does much to facilitate the laborious reductions involved in the whole investigation .
It is well known that the -functions are expressible in terms of the -functions by means of a definite integral .
Hence and must have a second form , which can only differ from the other by a constant ctor .
The factor in question is determined in the paper .
It is easy to form a function continuous at the which be a solid rmonic 1 ) for external and for internal space .
Poisson 's equation then gives the surface density of which this colttinuous function is the potential , and it is to be a surface harmonic of multiplied by the perpendicular on to the tangent plane .
This resuIt may obviousl .
) employed in determining the potential of harmo1lic deformation of a solid ellipsoid .
The otential of the solid ellipsoid itself ) found by the consideration it is equad to that of a focaloid shell of the same mass .
It appears that in order to express the equivalent snrface in harmonics it is only necessary to express the reciprocal of the squarc of the on to the tangent plane in that form .
This resuIt ttained by exprcssing , in surface rmonics .
When this is donc an of the preceding theorem enables us to write down the exterllal p of the solid ellipsoid at once .
ince x , been in surface harmonics , we can also write down a rotation potential about any one of the three axes in the The internal potential of a solid ellipsoid does not itself to cJliptic co-ordinates , but explcssionsfoJ it are If it desired to express )itrary fmction of in surface harmonics , it is to the iutegrals , over the of the ellipsoid , of the of the severnl surfacc rmonics , ltiplied the pcndicular on to the ngent plane .
The of the devoted to the tion of these rals .
No ttcmpt is to carry the developments ) eyoud although the would it to do so .
necessary ysis is difficuIt , but results degrccs fin ined .

