1885 .
] Morphology of Phylloglossum Drummondii .
445 In connexion with the Mollusca certain points seem worthy of special notice .
In the first place , it is held by many comparative anatomists that the | lacunar system of Molluscs has a partly enterocoelous origin , or at least has enterocoelous elements in its nature .
If this be so , it is interesting to note that some cells of the lacunar walls may be glycogenous , for glandular surfaces seem to be specially characteristic of the ectoderm and endoderm .
Moreover , these cells are also to be found on the mesenteries of Holothurians , which are undoubtedly enterocoelous .
In the second place , one of the greatest objections which can be urged against the feasibility of water inception by Molluscs is removed , if ( 1 ) the specific gravity and ( 2 ) the nutritive quality of the blood can be maintained in spite of the process .
It is supposed that this would be accomplished by the discharge of the contents of the glycogenous vesicles .
Finally it is interesting to note , that one of the functions of the vertebrate liver seems in Molluscs with ease to be performed outside its domain , and this , moreover , in animals whose liver is essentially a digestive gland .
In conclusion I have to thank Professor Lankester and Professor Foster , to whom , as also to Mr. Langley , Mr. Lea , and Mr. Gardiner , I am very greatly indebted .
X. " On the Development and Morphology of Drummondii .
Part I. Vegetative Organs .
" By F.O. BOWER , M.A. , F.L.S. , Regius Professor of Botany in the University of Glasgow .
Communicated by W. T. Thiselton Dyer , M.A. , C.M.G. , F.R.S. Received June 18 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The morphological history of Phylloglossum has up to the present time rested on a very slender basis .
The following brief summary given by Sachs ( " Textbook , " 2nd English Edition , p. 463 ) practically comprises the whole of it:\#151 ; " A small Australian plant , only a few centimetres high .
It consists of a stem arising from a small tuber , and bearing at its lower part a rosette of a few long leaves , and one or more lateral roots ; it is prolonged above this as a thin scape , and terminates in a spike of small leaves bearing the sporangia .
The plant is propagated by means of adventitious shoots , consisting of a tuber with a rudimentary leafless bud ; in this respect it resembles our native Ophrydece .
" The study of so reduced a form of a group , usually so remarkable 446 Morphology of Phylloglossum Drummondii .
[ June 18 for luxuriant vegetative development , seemed to promise a good deal of interest .
Baron Ferdinand von Mueller , K.C.M.G. , F.R.S. , Government Botanist , Melbourne , with , the unfailing energy which prompts him to assist every kind of botanical work , after one or two attempts succeeded in transmitting to the Royal Gardens , Kew , a parcel of tubers in a living condition .
These were successfully grown for the first time in Europe .
Their examination in the Jodrell Laboratory has yielded the results now communicated to the Society .
The mode of development depends to a certain extent upon the size of the tuber : where the tuber is small only vegetative organs are formed , where it is relatively large , the plant may form sporangia .
Taking first the simpler case , it is found that outgrowths appear on the broad apex of the tuber , which is before germination a simple , smooth and rounded cone ; these outgrowths are leaves ; their number may vary from one to six or seven .
They are arranged in an irregular whorl , of which the members on one side take precedence of the rest in time of appearance ; they constitute in fact a " successive whorl .
" From the first they are rounded at the apex , and have no single apical cell .
The apex of the axis , which has a central position at first , becomes gradually depressed , and is overarched by the surrounding tissue ; it develops directly into the apex of the new tuber , which is accordingly of exogenous origin , and represents in this simpler case the actual apex of the parent plant .
By a peculiar localisation of growth this apex becomes inverted , and by a process of development very similar to that of the axillary shoot in certain orchids ( e.y. , Her minium monorchis ) , it projects laterally from the parent plant .
Meanwhile an outgrowth appears on the opposite side of the axis from that on which the tuber projects , and below the insertion of the oldest leaf : this is the first root .
It has been clearly proved , by both external observation and by study of sections , that the root in Phylloglossum is of exogenous origin .
Among other known examples of this anomalous mode of root-development it is interesting to note the root of the embryo of Isoetes .
In those cases where the tuber is relatively large , sporangia are formed : these are , as is already known , borne upon an elongated axis , which is the direct product of the apex of the tuber .
A different origin is necessary in this case for the tuber , and it has been found that the tuber originates in such plants in an adventitious manner , as a depression at the base of the sporangium-bearing axis or peduncle : the details of its development are otherwise similar in this case to that above described .
A comparison of both external form , and as far as possible of internal structure , between Phylloglossum and the young plants of Lycopodium cernuum described recently by Treub , shows many points of striking similarity : this is so marked that the author draws the 1885 .
] Researches on the Theory of Vortex Rings .
447 following conclusion : that , provided the oophore generation of Phylloglossum ( which has never yet been observed ) corresponds in its more important points to that of , we may regard Phylloglossum as a form which retains and repeats in its sporophore generation , the more prominent characteristics of the embryo as seen in Lycopodium cernuum : it is a permanently embryonic form of a lycopodiaceous plant .
XI .
" Researches on the Theory of Vortex Rings .
II .
" By W. M. Hicks , M.A. , F.R.S. , Principal and Professor in Mathematics in Firth College , Sheffield .
Received June 13 , 1885 .
( Abstract .
) The communication forms a continuation of some researches the first part of which was published in Part I of the Transactions for 1884 .
In that paper was considered the case of a circular hollow with cyclic motion through it .
In the present the more general case is investigated where the core is of different density from the surrounding fluid , has a hollow inside it , and circulations additional to that due to the filaments of rotational fluid actually present .
It does not seem to have been generally noticed that even in the case of the ring ordinarily considered , where the density of the core is the same as that of the surrounding fluid , and there are no additional circulations , the full theory ought to take account of the existence of a hollow , for when the energy of the motion ( as was pointed out by the author* ) is increased beyond a certain point , depending on the circulation and the pressure of the fluid where it is at rest , a hollow will necessarily begin to form .
As it seems impossible to account for the very great differences in the masses of the various elements on the vortex theory of matter unless the cores are of different densities , the investigation includes the case where the density is arbitrary .
As soon as the existence of a core is postulated the ring at once becomes more complex , depending on the density ( or even the distribution of density ) of its core , on its vorticity , and on the presence or absence of additional circulations .
The vorticity has been taken uniform ; this not only greatly simplifies the mathematical methods , but is also the case we should naturally choose first to investigate .
In the general investigation the density is taken to be different from that of the surrounding fluid , the ring is supposed hollow , with an additional circulation round it , and another round the outer boundary of the core .
It is evident that the presence of the former necessitates the * " On the Problem of Two Pulsating Spheres , " " Camb .
PhiL Proc. , " iii .

