XXI .
Observations and Experiments onw a Wax-like Substance , resembling the Pe-la of the Chinese , collectedf at Madras by Dr. Anderson , and called by him White Lac .
By George Pearson , , M. D. F. R. S. Read May 29 , zy94 .
tX Some Observations relative to the natural History of the Insect which secretes a Sort of AVaxn called white Lac .
rrs 1 HE matter which is the subject of the folloving observations and experiments , was first noticed by Dr. ANDERSON of Madras , about the year 1786 , in a letter to the governor and council of that place , when he says , nests of insects resembling small cowry sllells were brought to him from the woods by the natives , who eat them with avidity .
These supposed nests he shortly afterwards discovered to be the coverings of the females of an undescribed species of COCCU$5 and having noticed , ill the Abbd GROSIER'S Account of China , that the Chinese collect a kind of wax , much esteemed by themS under the name of Pe-la , from a coccus deposited for the purpose of .
breeding on certain shrubs , and managed exactly in the same manner as the Mexicans manage the cochineal insect , he followed the same process with his rlew insects , and shortly found means to propagate them with great facility on several of the trees and shrubs growing in his neighbourhoodO On examining the substance , he observed in it a very considerable resemblance to bees wax ; and noticed7 moreover , that the animal which secretes it provides itself , by some means or other , with a small quantity of honey , resembling that produced by our bees ; and he complains in one of his letters , that the children whom Ile elnployed to gather it were tempted by its sweetness to eat so much of what they collected , as to diminish materially the produce of his crop It is also believed that the white lac possesses medicillal qualities .
A small quantity of this matter was sent to the President in t789 , but as there was not enough for the various experiments which suggested themselves to chemists who were consulted on the occasion , he wrote to Dr. ANDERSON for an additional quantity , who in 1792 furnished him with some pounds of it , both in its natural state , and melted into cakes , as also of the insects adhering to the branches on which they had been cultivated .
The curious analogy betureen the manner in hich this insect produces its wax , and the mode in which it is producect by our bees , according to the late Mr. HUNTER'S observation , and the singularity of the animal 's producing honey as wiell as wax , were sufficient reasons , in point of abstract curiosity , to make an analysis Yery desirable ; and moreover the probabil jty of its becoming an object of commerce seemed apparent : for it certainly can be provided at Madras at a mlvlcla less prce than is given for wax , even in the cheapest markets .
I the-refore , at the request of the President , very willingly uladertook the task of examining its chemical qualities which are the subject of the folloxing paper .
It must l)e remembered , that all the authors who describe the true cochineal insect tell us , that the females when nearly perfect are covered thickly with a white down , or meal , which protects them from the sun and rain , and the attacks of certain insects who are their enemies .
It is probable that this substance is of the sam-e nature as the p6-la , and that the secretion of wax in more or less quantity is common to the genus of coccus .
It is observable , moreover , that the insect which produces lac , a substance resemblin$ wax , provides itself also with a sweet fluid resemJ3ling honey .
Hence a striking analogy between these three animals is observable ; and it is far frorll improbable that fufure naturalists may discover them to be species of the same genus ; and find the means of making the beautiful red colour prodllced by the lac insect as useful in dying as that of the true cochineal , II .
Sensible , and some other Propertzes of white Lac .
A piece of white lac , which weighs from about three to fif-teen grains , is plobably produced by each insect .
These pieces are of a grey colour , opaque , rough , and roundish ; of about the size of a pea , but with a flat side , by which they adheroe to the ba-rk .
In this flat side there is a fissure which contaills a little blac.l &gt; r ; z7*tte tlnn exuvi of the insect .
Which iav , in its dley stae , has a saltish and bitterish taste , and in the nsour-ll is soft and tough .
It appears however from Mr. ANDERSON'S lette-e , that the taste of this substance recently prod- &gt; ictet &lt; - ) is sc ( }.sJlibious9)2 SO that it is difflcult to pre* vent the cl-t !
re ) rJAiu other persons employed to gather it from eatinC it .
on p*ec ^ * &lt; g a piece of this substance between the fingers a xDccxclv .
3 D watery liquid oozes out , wlnicll has a slight salt taste X and ur are tolel that the recently gathered lac is replete with juice .
Althollgh the roulldish pieces of tiliS substance yield to pressure betwteell the fingersy they may be brokell , and thetz appear to be perfectly white ntithin and of an uniform stnooti texture .
NVIlite lac has no sll}eil unless it be pressed or rub bed till it is soft , and tl-en it enlits a peculiar odour .
Tlle lac which 11af1 looez strained through muslin was of a brown coleur thoughout its B^hvle substance ; uras brittle hard anel ilad a bitterisla taste , without alay saltiless , for its watertr liquid had been separated by lneti5-g .
The pieces of lac gat ; llered from the tree are as light , or -lighter than bees swas ; but after beizg lmelted and purified by straining , it sinlSs in watern and ti-err^ &lt; ore is specifically heavier than lees wax generally is .
White laC naeits ill water of the temperature of 14$Q of FAHRENMEIT)S thermometer .
In boiling water it readsly melted , and the black exuszz were thus separated from the lac .
Two thousand grains of white lac were exposed in such a degree of caloricX as was just sufficient to melt them ; as they grew soft and fluide a pretty large quantity of reddish wafery fluid , namely sSo grains , which emitted the smell of nesvly baked bread , oozed outb Those liquid was poured oX for examination , and the lac was strained thrclgh fizle cloth repeatedlys till it left no exusz or other es-traneous matter on the filter .
The quantity of purified lac thus obtairled was 1220 grainsw * The names of the new system of chemistry are employed in this paper , for which it is presumed a particular explanation is alIlnecessAry , as ; ts nomenclature is now vesy generally used .
It was yellow like bees wax X hard and bri/ the as rnsin .
It had no bitterish or scarcely any other tastef It tnel4ted in alcohol , and also ira water , c3f the temperature of between +S ' and 146'e Purified white lac adheles very firmly to wood , tin , paper &gt; &amp;c. so that it is an excellent cement on tnally occasions .
lII .
Experiments to disover some of the nittes and Combi-osations of white Lac. .
Yellow purified lac above mentioned was spread thin upon a plate cf glassn and exposed to the rays of the sun during the rllole of the tnoiltll of July , 179g , but it was 1lot by this means rendered ( It all less yellow .
e. A bit of white lac , on boiling in vater with powdered charcoal , was absorbed , and disappeared .
g. Purified lac was digested in various proportions of ley of ptlre pot-ash , in different temperatures , but an urliform or soap-likemass could not be formed .
1-he mixture emitted the smell of palm t3il .
The lac turned to a brown colotlr , and had the appearance of a coaCulated mass , ill the liquid as well as dry state .
-The liquid filtered from these solutions had a sweetish and bitterish taste .
Upon the addition of vinegarf it became very turbicl and rose-coloured ; and by standing it let fall a copious sediment , wIlich being dried was found to bewhite lac only rendered more brittle .
+ .
24 , +moniac or caustic volatile alkali seemed to combine with the white lac .
the compotlnd was a tolerably uniform brown soapy substance .
It tasted sweet , and had still a weak smell of cllumoniac .
It rendered water lnilky , and this solu tion became curdy on adding to it acetous acidO S Candles , of different thicknesses , were made of puri fied white lac above mentioned , with cotton wicks of different thick1lesses ; and candles vere also made of white lac which 11ae1 been dissolved in su]plauric aethera and in voiatile oil of turpelltine .
Tl-ley all burned more rapidly , but I think emitted a less quantity of light , than sax candles of the same size .
The candles made of white lac also ssluoked and produced a rosinolls stnell .
Wllite lac burned in oxygen gaz without afficrdlng ay snloke , and with a beautifully bright flame *A small piece of purified white lac , i:z a platina s ; poon , r^s exposed to the apex of the violet blue colsured flatlle of a candle , by means of the blow-pipe ; a small qualltit : &gt; r or ba .
k suatter remained in the spoon , xvllich could not be carr ; ed oF by a long continued application of the flatne ; but after keeping the spoon red-hot itl the fire for ten millutes , nothing but a very snzall qualltity of grey ash uas le^t .
6* From purified white lac nothing could be extracted by water , nor from the lac in its impure state , except a bittelisl snucilage .
# 7 .
White lac turned to a black coloured substance by boi:ling it in concerltrated sulphuric acid .
The mixture NZas then diluted with water , and by means of the filter a carbonaceousmatter was separated , which on being made recl hot buAnt in the air without flaming .
The filtered liquid , upc)n evapora.ion todryness , afforded no alkaline or other residue .
8 .
Glass covered with a thin coat of white lac wabs kept immersed in oxygenated muriatic acid gaz , and also ill Water saturated with this gaz , for several months , withlout producing any apparent change on the colour of the lac , or in its other properties .
g. On about ooo grains of white lac were poured asa5O grains of cooucentrated nitrous acid .
In a fe ; W milaul:es time the acd became of a deep orange colour , and , on making it hot nkltrous gaz was discharged , with an ebullition of the liquid .
A fresll discharge of nitrous gaz took place on adding more lli trous acid .
On applying calolic , to make the acid boil and to melt the lac , this substance was totally dissolved v but on standing to cool , it seetned to be wholly separated from the acid , and vas rendered white ; On diluting with water the acid from which the lac had separated itself ; a very slight curdy precipitation took place ; and the same appearance took place on adding ley of pot-ash .
On evaporatilag this acid to dryness , a very small residue of lac was obtgiruedX I dissolved a little of this substance by boiling it in coracentrated nitrous acid , and poured the solution , while hot ?
into water ; UpOll which a very copious precipitation instantly took placen of the lac rendered quite white .
so .
One hundred grairls of the substance under exarnination were totally dissolved , and very readilyf in 5oo grains of volat ; e oil of turpexltine .
While this solution was llot it was clear , hut on cooling it grew opaque and white .
0t1 evaporation the whole of the lac was recovered .
1X .
Fifty grains of white lac readily dissolved in Soo grains measure of sulphtaric there , in the temperature .
of 80 ' .
this mution was not unctuous , or resinousv the lower part of it was like an emulsion , and the tIpper part was transparent and lim ?
id , but both parts contained the sub , stance dissolved .
Upon evaporation the lac was recc)vered in the fornl of a light white powder , which on melting became a brittle yellow solid , as heavy as before solutionf 12 .
One hundred grains of hite lac being digested in zooo grains measure of acohol , the specific gravity of which s.tas as 835 to Iovo , about half of the substance soon dissolved , and the solution where } colcI was opaque , hite , and thickv as saturated solution of soap in hoX spirit of wine appears on cooling .
By repeated affusions of aIcohol oll the residue of these loo grains , all but about tie gra.ins was dissolved ; and thiS residue did laot appear to be different from lac which had not been digested in this menstruum.^ This .
solution affiorded , on evaporation , a light white opaque powder , v11icll on being tnelted was a brittle , yellow , heavy solid , as the substance was before solution .
Saturated solution of white lac itl alcohol spread tIpon paper , cloth , WOOd ?
&amp; G. on evaporation left a thin coat of resinous matter , which was llot laowever brigIat and smooth ; and therefore thi:s solu-tion did not afford a good varnishF r. Ezperzments to decompound NDite Lac by Fire .
I shall only relate particularly one of these exl}eriments , because among several which I made there was no material diSerence in the result .
Eight hundred grains4of purified white lac were put into a glass retort , to which was affixed an adopter with a large btlll to receive condensed vapotlrs ) and the hydro-pneutnatic apparatus to collect elastic fltoids , or gazes .
There distilled over go4 grains of yellow strongly empyreumatic oil of the consistence of butter , 400 graills of thin oil which had the smell of tar , near 20 grains of watery liquid cotltaining a little acid , perhaps the pyrotartareous or the sebacic acid ; besides 3oz cubic inches of gaz .
Ill the retort there remailled 37 grains of:391 carbonaceous matter , which was a pretty lzard cinder , the Ul1der surface of which in contact with the glass had seelaillgly unclergone a partial fusio2l , and the glass itself to which it ad hered appeared to have been a little corroded .
The above distilled gaz contailleel no -oxygen to the tesl ; of zitrous gaz ; but 32 cubic inches of it were absorbed by milk of lime , and near 86 cubic ilaches of it were absorbed by yellow exyd of 8 lead , or massicot , placed in the focus of a lens ; ddring which absorption lead was reduced , and water com posed .
lnlae remainder of the gaz extinguislled flame and ras concluded to be nitrogen or azotic gaz .
The baz which was obtained by distillation was therefore a mixture of carbonic acid , hydrogen , and nitrogen gaz .
This mixture burnt lile what has been called heavy inflammable alr .
rrhe above gy grains of carbonaceous matter afforded two grains of muriate of soda9 one grain of carbonate of soda , four grains of phosphate of soda .
The lixiviated carbonaceous matter being mixed with goo grains of red oxyd of'lead , and exposed to a due degree of fire , yielcied about 60 cubic inches of carbonic acid gaz , and a little regulus of lead ; but there was a residue of carbonaceous matter which could not be -burnt away in the fiercest fire in open vessels .
This residue sras probably carbon , phosphoric acid and soda , intiluately mixed by fusion .
From this analysisn it appears that loo parts of white lat pu rified yield Butyraceous oil Thin oil Water containing acid Carbonaceous matter7 containing ] acid , muriatic acid , and soda Carbonic acid , by estimation Hydrogen , by estimation Nitrogen or asote by estimation 251 so _ gI .
lorlc phospE 4T 4I_ 1_ _ 10 98 Deficiency by waste and error , by estimation zoo parts .
Wllen this experiment was made with unpur.ified white lac , the proportion of water and carbonaceous matter was much greater than in the preceding experiment .
On acccunt also of the water , it was extremely difficult to pxevent the substance boiling over and bursting the vessels .
Charcoal of wood being mixed with white lac , the oil seetned to distil over more readily , with less waier , and was paler coloured oil than in the preceding experiment .
White lac was also distilled from pot-ash , s-itXiout any ma terial difference in the result , excepting that the oiis which distilled over were thicker .
v. Experiments upon the Liquid cont\#163 ; lined in white Lac ( a ) On pressing , between the fingers , the pieces of white lac , in the state in which they are taken from the tree or shrub ( although they are apparently quite dry and brittle and have been kept several years ) , a watery liquid oozes out v by which paper stalned with turnsole is instantly turned to a red colour .
( b3 The S ' grains of reddish watery liquid above mentioned to have been separated from 2000 grains of white lac were filtrated through paper in order to separate rnucilage .
( aa ) rrkis filtrated liquid has a slightly saltish taste , with bitterness , but is not at all sour .
( bb ) When made hot , it smells precisely like llewly baked hot bread .
( cc ) On standing it grows somewhat turbid , and deposits a small quantity of sediment .
( dd ) Its specific gravity in the temperature of 60* was to distilled srater as o02$ to loQo .
( ee ) A little of this liquicl having been evaporated till it gresv xTery turbid , oll standing afforded small needle-like cries tals in lnucilagil1ous matter .
( c ) About 250 grains of the liquid ( b ) urere poured into a retort which held one ounce measure , to which was joined a receiver containing two shreds of paper , one stained witha turrlJ sole , and the other had been dipped in solllt on of sa1l31late of iron .
As the liquor grew warln , mucilage-like cXouds appearedf but when it gre^r llot they disappeared ; anel about the telnperature of 200 ' it dlstilled over very fast .
Oll dist:illation to early dryness , a small quantity of extractive onataer remained &gt; The distilled liquid while llot smelt like newly baked bread , and was perfectly transparent and yelIowish .
The paper stained with turnsole was not reddened ; nor was that which had been immersed in solution of sulphate of iron turned to a blue colour , vlpon moistening it with ley of potash .
( d ) The flaIne of a candle being applied hy means of a blow-pipe to the extractive matter ( c ) the wltole of it was burnt-aray except what prodllced a blacl mark upon the ; spoon ; in which no trace of alkali was detected by peaper stained with turmeric .
( e ) About loo grains of the yellowish transparent liqltid ( c ) being evaporated till it grew turbid , after being set by for a night , afforded acicular crystals , which urlder a lens appeared in a gltoup , not unlike the umbel of parsley .
The whole of these crystals could notg probablyn have weighed a quarter of a grain .
They tasted only bitterish .
( f ) One hutldred grains of the yellow ish transparent liquid ( c ) being evaporated , ina very low temperature , to drynessS a blackish matter was left behindf which did llot entirely dis appear oll heating the spoc)n containing it very hot in the naked fire ; but on heating oxalic acid to a much less degree it evaporated , arad left not a trace behind .
( g ) Carbozzate of iime ( chalk ) readily dissolved ?
with effer vescence , in the liquid ( c ) .
The solution tasted bitterish , clid not turn paper stained with turnsole to a red cc]our , and a copious precipitation elzsued on adding to it carboilate of pot ash ( mild vegetable allialt ) .
A little of this soltltion of limej and also of alkali being evaporated to dryness , al-Xclt:he residue being made red-hot nothing remained but carbonate of lim alsd carbol1ate of pot-ashO ( h ) Tlle above distilled Iiquid ( c ) did not render nitrate of Iime turbid ; but ( i ) It produced turbidness in nitrate and rnuriate of baryt .
( k ) To $oo grains of the reddish coloured liquid obtaixled by lnelting white lac , I added ley of carbonate of soda , till the eServescence ceased , and the mixture neither reddened paper stained with turnsole , nor turned paper stained with turmeric to a bro^rn colour .
The quantis-y of dry carbonate of soda used in the ley was three grains A quantity of mucilaginous matter with a little carbonate of lime , wJas precipitated ( luring this combination .
The saturated solution being filtrated and evaporated to a due degree , it affordeds on standing , deliquescent crystals .
( I ) A little of the crystallized salt ( k ) by expostlre to fire left onlJr a residue of carbonate of soda .
( m ) The reddish liquid obtained by melting the white lat being filtrated , the following precipitants were added , namelys &lt; .
Lime-water , which produced a light purple , turbid appearance , and on standing , there were just perceivable clouds .
2 .
Sulphgret of lime ( calcareous liver of sulphur ) occasioned a white precipitation ; but I could not perceive the smell of sulphurized hydrogen gaz , ( hepatic air). .
Alcohol of gall nut ( tincture of gall nut ) induced a grey precipitation .
4 .
Sulphate of iron ( green vitriol ) produced a purplish coIour ?
but lao precipitation ; nor did arly precipitation take place on adding to this mixture first a little vinegar , and then a little pot-ash. .
Hcetite of lead ( sugar of lead ) occasioned a reddish precipitation , which re-dissolved on adding a little nitrolls acid .
6 .
NStrate of mercary ( sollltion of mercury in nitrous acid ) produced a *vllitish turbid liquid .
*7 .
Owalis acid produced immediately a precipitation of white acicular crystals .
8 .
Tarlrite of pot-asb ( soluble tartar ) lveing addedS a preci pitation took place which much resenlb'ed that which takes place on adding tartareous acid to tartrite of pot-ash ; but the plzecipitated matter by the liquid from the white lac did not re-dissolve on adding pot-ash .
With respect to the nature of the liquid contained in white lac^ it perhaps lJelongs to the genus of acids , because it changes turnsole to a red coloured substance , and lleutralizes fixed alkali and lirne ( g ) ( k ) .
This acid liquid is most probably secreted at the same time ^rith the white lac ; and therefore the white lac coccus , like the ant , anxl some other insects , has organs for secreting an acid .
As this acid is destructible by fire ( f ) ( g ) ( 1 ) and as it affords carbon ( X ) , it mtlst l)e referled to the anitnal or vege table acids .
From the precipitation of tartrite of pot-clsh ( m , 8 ) reseln bling tartar , this acifl might be supposed to be the tart-areous ; but as this precipitate is not again dissolved OIl adding potash , as it has no sour taste ( c ) , as it evflporates in 200 ' of caloric ( b ) , as the combination with lime is readily sotuble in water , and decomposed by pot-ash ( g ) ( m , t ) , a-ltl as the cOmbningtiOAl\V tt 1 seda is a deli que.cell t salt ( k)S this acid callnot be consiclereal to be the ttrtareous .
Nor does this liquid appear , from the abcve experiments , to be any one of the other knowIa vegetable or allirnal acids .
the other proper ties , shown by the experiments , except the precipitation of tartrite of pot-ash , and the peculiar smell above melationed , are either those common to every species of acid , or are possessed by several of them .
For although this acid possesses several propert ; ies common to all acids , and some properties which belong to a few species only , there is not arly one of the already known acids that has the smell , wlaen heated , above mentioned that plecipitates tartrite of pot-ash , but does not serve to compose acidulous tartrite of pot-ash S that , besides hasing these properties , is vapour in the t:emperature of 2O0 ' without decomposibion , has not a sour but a bitterish taste , and forms a soluble compound with lime , which is decomposable by pot-ash .
The precipitation by oxalic acid , it is probable , was occasiorzed by a small quantity of lime which the undisl ; illed liquid of white lac contaills Tlae other phenomenon in the experiments I do not re-fer to , because they are produced by acids in general .
Whether the above liquicl from white lac be a new acid , or one of the acids already krzown , but disguised by mixture or 1lnion with o4sher bodies , I leave to the decision of future experiments , and to the judgment of learned chetnists .
v. Renlarks and Conclusions ffCom the preceding Observations and Experimezlts .
1 .
White lac being unctuous lvhel ] in a fluid state , having little or no smell and taste , unless heatedS being insoluble in water l)eing inflamlnable in oxygen gazS and ctecompoulided bJr ; Ilre alonen in close vessels , before evaporationg it seetns tobelong to the genus of fat , or fixed oils:-but it differs from them , and resembles the volatile oils and resins , in being brittle and semitransparent , in being soluble in alcohol ; in composing an imperfect seap with fixed alkalies s in dissolv ing readily in su]phuric aether .
2 .
As bees was allel white lac seemed to be alike in many properties , I extended the comparison by some experiments on jbees wax .
Bees wax when first secreted is , I beRieve , always whitew and it is often v-hite when made into the comb .
It remains white after being luelted .
White lac becomes yellow , on purification by melting and straining .
Bees wax has a peculiar smell when cold .
White lac has a smell only when made laot , and it is a different one from that of bees wax .
Bees wax is less brittle and hard than white lac .
The former is , generallya specifically lighter than the latter , for bees wax often floated upon cold water , but purified lac fell to the bottom .
Bees wax melts at about 942t , and therefore in a few degrees less caloric than white lac .
Bees wax does not adIlere so firmly to different bodies as white lac .
Yellow bees wax can be rendered white by exposure to the solar light , or by oxygenated tnuriatic acid , but this Iac could not be bleached .
Bees wax formed a soap-like mass by union with pot-ash which was soluble like common soap in water , but this lac afforded an imperEect soap .
It is well known that bees wax burns without affording almost any smoke or smell , and produces a stea( lie light .
I did not iind that white lac , united with oil of olive , formed a wax little inferior to bees wax , which is said to be the case with the p6-la of the Chinese .
By this union I made white lac whiter and as soft as bees wax ; but it still afforded smokeX a resinous smell , and an unsteady light , as before .
Water extracted nothing from pure bees wax .
Nttrous acid , in the cold , only rendered it white ; but , on boiling , the lac wholly dissolved , and like the white lac , on cooling , it separated , and was rendered white .
Oil of turpentine , and A ; ulphuric asther formed compounds with bees wax similar to those with white lac .
The solution of bees wax in slllphuric aether , on evaporation left a white powdery substance , which on melting was found to be common yellow &gt; tax .
Alcohal , the specific gravity of which to water was as 8SS to lOCO , dissolved bees wax with much more difficuXty , and in much smaller proportion , than 7vbite lac .
By digestion ill this menstruum , of the ternperature of zgo ' to 140 ' , it appeared that bees wax was totally soluble , but the same wax by repeated digestions became more and more difficultly soltlble , and yet it did not appear that the last portion of wax was different in its other properties from wax which had not been digested .
C)X1 evaporation of this solution to dryness , a white substance in a povs ?
dery form remained , which being melted was yellow wax .
Bees wax , on decomposition lJy fire , in close vessels , with the hyclropneumatic apparatus affixed , yielded resembling or nearly $imilar substances to those obtained o11 the analysis of white lac by fire ; for1800 grains of bees vax garre 1200 grains of white butyraceous oil , with a little thin brovvIl oil , and a verysmall quantity of water and acid ; and a very large quantity of hydrogen and carbonic acid gaz with which was probably l:nixed nitrogen gaz ; but an accident prevented me determining the presence of this last gaz .
In the retort there remaitled only about ten grains of carbonaceous matter .
The smell of the empyrellmatic oils was very different from those of white lac .
3 .
White lac appears to hanre the sanne kinds of affinity as bees wax ; but many of their combinations are so very difFerent in the TWQ cases , as to tdetermine wlaite lac and bees wax to be diSerent specles of substances , although they agree with one another in more properties than they do with any other known bodies .
As to the p6-la of the Chinese , we CallIlOt judge of it unless a more particular accoullt had been given of its qualities .
4 .
White lac and bees wrax appear tc ) be homogeneous substances , and tO consist of the same kind of constituent parts , but the proportion of these parts ls very different ill the two substarlces ; and hence the differerlce in the properties of bees wax and white lac .
I consider the phosphate of lime , the soda , and mariate of soda , as extraneous to the composition of lac .
The differelat composition of the two substances may enable us to explain in a probable mantler the different action of other bodies upon thena .
For inst ?
tuce , as it appears vllat a much greater proportion of carbon elaters into the COlNpOSitiOIl of white lac than bees wax , the quantity of oxygen gaz in atmospheric air , applied under the usual circtnstances of combustion , is not suflicient to combine with the whole of the carbon arz-other com(.le lts of a gisren part of white lac , whereFore a portiol-l vf cLsrboll remaitls uncombilled , in the form of soot , or a sub ; mafe ; but u7hen ox)Jgell gaz is applied , the nvhole of t}we carboll is combilled with it , and of cotlrse no srnoke appears .
The smaller proportion of carboll in bees wax than white lac , affiords a probable reason why tnere is less smoke during the coynbustion of bees wax than xvhite lac .
It appeclrs reasonable to conclude , that white lac might be made to serve for illumination and combllstion as well as bees wax , either by diminislling the proportion of carbon , or by increasing the proportion of the c ) there components , but my knoN71edge of chetnistry does not etaable 1lle to effiect either of these changes .
3F

