300 Prof. F. Gotch and Mr. G. J. Burch .
Electrical dimensions of the atoms are concerned in the matter , for the in .
space in the centre of a primitive cube of potassium is large ena^ to house an atom of a gross volume exceeding 17 .
In the case of iron the central space is notably smaller thaiin that of palladium ; supposing no expansion to occur on absorpt\#174 ; , the largest atom it could contain would have a diameter of l'$\gt ; corresponding to a volume of 2*697 .
It is probable , however , that a change in crystalline systems associated with the absorption of gases by iron and nickel . ?
Tis is suggested by the curious effect produced on the nature of the metals by repeated absorption of hydrogen , at least in the caseif nickel , which loses its cohesion and after repeated treatment becois converted into a friable powder .
The galleries formed by ranges of central spaces present c : .
strictions at intervals corresponding to the places where the f\lt ; r spheres forming the face of a cubelet are most closely apprc-mate ; the ratio of the diameter of a sphere that could just travel one of these constrictions is to that of a sphere which would jit occupy a central space as 2 : v/ 3 .
Hence the passage of an atu into the central chamber involves either a displacement of the atois surrounding the entrance or a contraction in the volume of 1* entering guest .
Is it possible that the " singing " of palladia which accompanies the process of occlusion , is connected with vibi tory movements of its atoms as they open and close the entrances the central chambers ?
In conclusion it may be pointed out that all the metals which a known to occlude hydrogen , viz. , potassium , sodium , magnesiu iron , nickel , platinum , and palladium , are paramagnetic , sodium ai magnesium being the only cases of an uncertain nature , while lei and gold , which offer roomy central spaces for the occupation hydrogen , but do not absorb it , are diamagnetic .
u The Electrical Response of Nerve to a Single Stimulu investigated with the Capillary Electrometer .
Pr\lt ; liminary Communication .
" By F. Gotch , M.A. , F.R.S Professor of Physiology , University of Oxford , and G. \lt ; -Burch , M.A. ( Oxon ) .
Received April 1 , \#151 ; Read May U 1898 .
The electrical changes which are evoked in nerve by a singl* stimulus have up to the present been but little investigated .
examination of the phenomena has been almost entirely limit \#174 ; PfJ observations upon the galvanometric deflections caused by the sumffl effects of a rapid succession of excitations , and rheotome methfjpj Response of Nerve investigated ivith Electrometer .
301 rried out along these lines by Bernstein , Hermann and others , have elded results of great value .
It is , however , only on the assumption at the aggregate value of the successive electromotive states gives any moment a faithful representation of each component member of e series , that deductions can be drawn from such rheotome observa-\gt ; ns as to the characters of the single electrical response .
Attempts iv been made to obtain indications of the response to a single imulus by other methods , but without very satisfactory results , s far as we know , the only permanent record of such a response is at obtained by Crotch and Horsley in 1888 with the assistance of arch ; the record was that of the photographed excursion of a nsitive capillary electrometer.* \#171 ; For some time the authors have been engaged in endeavouring obtain with the capillary electrometer records of the single sponse of nerve which should be large enough not merely to idicate its occurrence but to afford data for determining its chief laracteristics .
This object has been so far attained that they are now able to seasure the electromotive changes of nerve in response to a single imulus , by the application to the photographic records of the rocess of analysis introduced by one of them.f ( G. J. B. ) The electrometer employed , made especially for the purpose by airch , is more sensitive and , at the same time , more rapid in its 3tion than any they have hitherto used .
The latter quality , while ssential to success , entails great liability to disturbance by mechanical ibrations , and considerable difficulty was met with on this account , 'he following form of support was ultimately adopted .
A brick illar was built up to the level of the ground upon a concrete founda-ion at the bottom of a pit 7 feet deep .
On the pillar was laced a stout box containing some 5 cvsrt .
of clay and upon the box hree cast-iron plates , each weighing 1 cwt .
Each plate was sepa-ated from the one below by three bags of sawdust , the bags forming i.pports , so arranged in opposite triangles as to come alternately nder the nodes and loops of the plates .
The electrometer , with its ccompanying microscope , was fixed to the topmost plate , and was hus efficiently isolated from the rest of the apparatus and from the loor of the working room .
The excursions of the meniscus were recorded by a pendulum notor , j ; the image being projected by a Leitz 3 mm. objective upon he sensitized plate .
This was carried by the motor across the optic ixis in a circular arc at a distance of 125 cm .
from the lens , giving * ' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' vol. 45 .
t'Phil .
Trans. , ' A , vol. 183 ( 1892 ) , pp. 81\#151 ; 105 .
J See " The Capillary Electrometer in Theory and Practice , Or .
J. iiurcli ; also Burdon Sanderson , * Journ. Pliys .
, ' vol. 18 , pp. 126 134 .
VOL. LXliT .
302 Prof. F. Gotch and Mr. G. J. Burch .
Electrical a magnification of 416 diameters .
The velocity of the transit of i , plates in the experiments now described varied between 14 aj 70 cm .
per second ; it was determined in every instance by recoi ing npon the plate the vibrations of a tuning fork having a period !
500 per second .
The sciatic nerves of large specimens of It .
temporaria were us in all the experiments , and the present results were obtained duri ' the winter months , i.e. , from October to March .
The prepared nerve was placed in a moist chamber kept at fro 4 ' to 6 ' C. ; the chamber contained non-polarisable electrodes for ti electrometer and polarising connections , and a pair of excitij electrodes .
In every case the nerve was excited by a single stimul applied to the sciatic plexus 20 to 30 mm. from the nearest of tl electrometer contacts .
The form of stimulus usually employed was a relatively feeb induced current caused by the opening of the primary circuit of standardised induction coil , which included one Daniell cell ; ti opening was effected by the pendulum motor and the primary co contained no core .
Each single stimulus of this type produces movement of the meniscus when the electrometer contacts a ?
suitably arranged upon the nerve .
The movement is in some east perceptible to the eye when the highly magnified image is projecte upon a screen , but in many instances is only visible after the develoj meant of the photographic record .
That the movement was not du to an escape from the exciting circuit is shown as follows :.\#151 ; Th direction and character of the movement is unchanged whatever th direction of the exciting current ; the escape , if present at all , i clearly indicated in the record as a rapid displacement of the meniscus preceding by a distinct interval the larger movement which is her referred to ; such antecedent escape excursions remain unmodified ii character under conditions which materially affect both the large movement and the physiological condition of the nerve ( polarisation C02 , \amp ; c. ) ; the escape , if present , is increased by augmenting th( intensity of the exciting induced current , whilst the larger change reaches a maximum with a certain intensity of stimulus ; finally , the larger movement is obtained by mechanical excitation such as the single tap of a light hammer arranged after the method of v. Uexkiill.* In order to facilitate the description of the excursions obtained , selected photographs have been projected upon a screen and the outlines of the variation in the level of the meniscus carefully traced ; a number of different curves are thus brought into juxta-position .
A. reduced copy of this is given in fig. 1 .
Some of the actual records will , it is hoped , be produced in a more extended communication , but the curves given in the figure are not merely faithful reproduc-* v- tJexkull , * Zeits .
f. Biol./ vols .
31 , 32,1895 .
Eesponse of Nerve investigated Electrometer .
303 ms of the originals , but correspond as regards dimensions with the cords upon the photographic plates .
The curves are to be read mileft to right ; the short line under each indicates 1/ 100 of a second , several instances , such as curves ( i ) , ( iv ) , ( v ) , ( vi ) , ( vii ) , and ( ix ) , 3 escape of the exciting current , arranged to be in the same section as the change due to the response , is seen preceding this , hen present it indicates the moment of excitation .
In the actual cords this moment was marked on each plate by photographing e movement of the opening key wdiich caused the exciting break duction shock .
I ) Fig- .
1 .
IF ) VJ \ YD m VIII ) X ) 304 Prof. F. Gotch and Mr. G. J. Burch .
Electrical Freshly Prepared Nerve ; both Electrometer Contacts upon the Uninjured Surface .
The nerve in these preparations was dissected out from the spia ) column to the knee , and the muscles below the knee were left attach to the preparation .
With the electrometer contacts arranged^ distances of 5 and 15 mm. respectively from the knee end , no restg difference of potential was perceptible .
A single electrical r mechanical excitation of the sciatic plexus 45 mm. from the be end of the nerve causes no visible displacement in the level of e mercurial meniscus , but the photographic record shows a raul excursion indicating that the contact nearest the seat of excitatn ( proximal ) is first negative and then positive to that more reme ( distal ) .
The character of the rapid up and down movements indicated in curve ( i ) fig. 1 .
If the contacts are placed furth apart ( 25 to 30 mm. ) the spike present in the record is more p. nounced , the ascending and descending limbs being further apart Freshly Prepared Nerve ; the Proximal Electrometer Contact upon Uninjured Surface , the Distal upon a recently made Cross Sech at the Knee End .
The contacts were arranged 10 mm. apart , and the well-knot resting difference of potential existed between them .
This demar\lt ; tion difference caused a downward movement of the level the meniscus amounting in some cases to 10 cm .
upon the scree It was not compensated by the use of any external E.M.F. , bat t pressure was altered so as to bring the meniscus up again to proper position .
During the presence of this permanent demarcate effect each single excitation of the plexus , whether electrical mechanical , is followed by a visible displacement in the level of tt image .
The photographic record , see fig. 1 ( ii ) , shows a rap upward movement , followed by a prolonged tail in place of t downward movement obtained with uninjured nerve , thus indicatii a more persistent change of the same sign as the initial one ; th disappears comparatively slowly , and is of much lower E.MJ than that which produces the initial rise .
Excised Nerve kept in the Cold from 24 to 90 hours in 0*6 per oen NaCl made with Tap-water containing Traces of Calcium Scdfy\gt ; ' That nerves kept in this way retain their excitability is shown h the fact that if the muscles are not detached they respond to excit tion of the nerve trunks .
On connecting such an excised nerve with the electrometer , n Response of Nerve investigated with Electrometer .
305 irked difference of potential is found to exist between the cross-\lt ; 3tion and any point on the surface .
A single excitation of the plexus rarely pi'oduces a displacement the image of the meniscus which is visible to the eye , but in the otographic record such displacement is indicated by a definite cursion of the character shown in fig. 1 ( iii ) .
The form is a spike , e limbs of which are more widely separated than those of the [ injured fresh nerve fig. 1 ( i ) .
It indicates that the proximal ectrometer contact becomes first negative and then positive to the stal one , but as the period at which the change of sign occurs is ter than in the fresh nerve the rate of transmission of the excitatory ocess , of which the electrical change is an index , must be slower in e kept than in the fresh nerve .
If a new cross-section is made at the knee end and the distal ntact placed upon it , the resting demarcation change is at once educed causing a marked downward displacement of the meniscus , ich single excitation of the plexus now causes a change plainly sible to the eye and the record shows as in fig. 1 ( iv ) that there is i excursion of considerable size , the initial rise being followed by e prolonged tail , which is seen in the freshly injured nerve .
[ 'he Alterations produced by the passage of a Polarising Current .
It is well known that the passage of a galvanic current through portion of nerve profoundly modifies its electromotive conditions , uring the passage the regions outside the part traversed by the ilarising current are the seat of changes such that currents of milar direetion to the polarising one are present in the extrapolar :gions .
It has been shown by Bernstein , Ilennann and others that the ccitatory effects are modified under these conditions , and a consider-ole part of the present investigation has been devoted to the deter-ination of the character of the change evoked by a single stimulus ader these circumstances .
The experiments were arranged along the lines shown in fig. 2 .
he excitation was restricted as before to the sciatic plexus , but an iditional pair of non-polarisable contacts was connected with a ircuit comprising a rheochord and two Daniell cells .
These olarising contacts were placed either between the exciting and the lectrometer ones as in arrangements A and B of fig. 2 , or on the istal side of the electrometer ones as in arrangements C and I ) .
In ach case the polarising current may be reversed in direction and Jur different modifications can be thus studied .
It will be observed bat there is a fundamental difference as regards the position of the lectrometer contacts , and this is accompanied by corresponding 306 Prof. F. Gotch and Mr. G. J. Burch .
Electrical Fia .
2 .
A X c \lt ; \#151 ; ** a M A r a '*\#151 ; *\#166 ; c f , J Ay E \#151 ; J\#163 ; If C x JP *:\#151 ; HC TP jE c a M A T ) A 'M- - ?
\#187 ; JP a **\#151 ; c f M / Tv A I " lir LJ JP X indicates the seat of excitation on the sciatic plexus j M the muscles below t-knee ; P indicates the circuit traversed by the polarising current ; E is electrometer circuit .
The unbroken arrow indicates the direction of t persistent polarising current in the nerve , the dotted one that of the persist : extrapolar effect thus produced .
The anode and cathode of the polaris current are indicated by the letters a and c respectively .
The signs ( -1- ) * !
( - ) refer to the persistent difference of the electrometer contacts dur polarisation .
differences in their electrical state .
The proximal electromei contact is that nearest the seat of excitation , and is represented the figure by the broad dark line .
In arrangement A it lies in i anodic extrapolar region , and owing to polarisation effects , rendered positive to the distal one during the polarising flow ; in it is in the cathodic extrapolar region , and is negative to the dist one during such flow ; in C it is in the cathodic region , but , as in i is positive to the distal one , whilst in D it is in the anodic regie !
but is negative to the distal one as in the case of B. The results as regards the character of the excitatory chan| differ in accordance with the particular arrangement employed , b it will be seen that with arrangements A and O , the records of tl response to a single stimulus resemble one another inasmuch as ti prolonged tail , previously referred to as characteristic of the nen with a fresh cross-section , now becomes strikingly evident .
On tl other hand with B and D the records resemble that of the uninjure nerve , the spike alone being present .
It will be convenient to describe the results under two heading in accordance with this general subdivision ; and , as experiment have been made on the preparations of all the types previous !
; referred to , the results under each heading comprise those observe1 in fresh nerves uninjured and with cross-section , and in kept nerve ?
Response of Nerve investigated with Electrometer .
307 rve during passage of a Polarising Current of such direction hat the Proximal Electrometer Contact is positive to the Distal One .
( a ) Fresh nerve prepared with electrometer contacts on surface i cross-section .
The proximal contact is in this case positive to i i distal owing to the resting difference ; this is increased by the xlic extrapolar effect of a polarising current as in arrangement A ( r.2 ) .
Each single stimulus of the plexus causes a very marked placement of the meniscus plainly visible to the eye .
The photo-iphic record is of the character shown in fig. 1 ( v ) .
The initial e is succeeded by a pronounced and prolonged effect of similar n : it indicates that the prolonged change present in the un-i arised nerve and figured in fig. 1 ( ii ) is increased .
( h ) Fresh nerve uninjured with both electrometer contacts on the surface .
There is no difference of potential between the itacts , but during polarisation the anodic extrapolar effect in .angement A and the cathodic extrapolar effect in arrangement are such that the proximal electrometer contact is positive to the ifcal .
This is particularly the case with arrangement A owing to la nearer proximity of the contact to the polarised region .
The persistent extrapolar state is indicated by a downward move-\#166 ; nt of the meniscus which reaches a certain level and is raised by [ table alteration of pressure to the middle of the optical field , ch single stimulus applied to the plexus , although in the unpolarised rve not followed by any displacement visible to the eye , produces w a visible change .
The records show that the initial rise is 11 present , but that it is succeeded by a prolonged effect of similar aracter to that obtained in fresh nerve with the distal contact upon e cross-section .
The curve given in fig. 1 ( vii ) shows its form .
( c ) Nerve kept in 0'6 per cent. NaCl .
It has been already ited that after twenty-four hours , the excised nerve gives no fference of potential when the electrometer contacts are placed \gt ; on cross-section and surface .
Polarisation may be produced of such character that the proximal Bctrometer contact ( i.e. , that nearest the seat of excitation ) is posi- ?
e to the distal one , by arrangement A or C , as in the case of unin-red nerve .
The effect caused by the single stimulus of the plexus modified in the same way as in the previous class of observations , istead of the spike which characterises the unpolarised nerve , the cords show that the initial rise is followed by a prolonged effect of ie form shown in fig. 1 ( ix ) .
As in the case of the uninjured nem e , us is more pronounced when the arrangement is that given in A ian that of C ( fig. 2 ) for the reason previously referred to .
If the kept nerve is subjected to a fresh cross-section , then the Bsults of polarisation of this character resemble those described nder ( a ) as occurring in the fresh nerve with a cross-section .
808 Prof. F. Gotoh and Mr. G. J. Burch .
Electrical Nerve during passage of a Polarising Current of such direction the Proximal Electrometer Contact is negative to the Pistal On ( a ) Fresh nerve with electrometer contacts upon surface m !
cross-section .
The arrangement made use of is that given in fi .
' 13 , and the resting demarcation difference is now largely dimini .
or entirely overpowered by the polarisation extrapolar effect inhc cathodic region .
The single excitation of the plexus rarely prod , any visible movement of the meniscus , and the record upon the ptc is found to be of the character indicated in fig. 1 ( vi ) .
It is evi that this differs from both the unpolarised nerve , fig. 1 ( ii ) , and !
nerve in the state of opposite polarisation , fig. 1 ( v ) , by the circ stance that the early part of the effect now takes the form of a s:\#187 ; i !
spike , and that the terminal prolonged portion forming the tai reduced to very small proportions .
The curve thus indicates1 the proximal contact becomes first negative and then positive rapid succession , whilst the prolonged effect no longer masks second positive change as in the other instances just referred to .
( b ) Fresh nerve uninjured , with contacts both upon the surf Polarisation effects resulting in relative negativity of the con proximal to the seat of excitation may be attained by either n arrangement like that given in fig. 2 B , or one like that of D. i the first case the electrometer contacts are in the cathodic extrapi region ; in the second case they lie in the anodic extrapolar regioi With either arrangement a single stimulus applied to the pie produces no alteration in the level of the meniscus visible to the but each plate when developed shows a record of the type indica in fig. 1 ( viii ) ; the form of the photographed excursion is that c very small spike the two limbs of which follow each other in ra succession .
The spike is sometimes , especially with arrangement followed by a curved prolongation dipping for a short distai below the resting level , but in no case has an effect in this direct ' been obtained at all comparable with that already referred to producing the negative tail daring the oppositely directed polarisatic ( c ) Nerve kept in 0*6 per cent. NaCl .
Polarisation produci relative negativity of the electrometer contact proximal to the s\lt ; of excitation can be attained by either of the two arrangements , B D ( fig. 2 ) .
When present , a single excitation causes no visible d placement of the meniscus , but the photographic records show tl there is an abrupt up-and-down excursion of the type indicated fig. 1 ( x ) .
When compared with that produced in the unpolarist nerve , fig. 1 ( iii ) , the form of the spike is seen to be one in whi\gt ; the ascending and descending limbs are more closely approximate and a slight dip below the resting level follows the completion the excursion .
Response of Nerve investigated .809 rom the foregoing description it will be evident that when the , ; imal electrometer contact is relatively positive to the distal one , ther owing to the extrapolar changes due to the passage of a , rising current , or to the presence , in the case of a recent cross- , ion , of the resting demarcation difference , the electrical response xed by a single stimulus has certain definite characteristics ; the !
t conspicuous of these are the increased magnitude of the initial -cement forming the ascending limb of the spike and the presence more prolonged change of similar sign to this .
On the other d when the contact proximal to the seat of the stimulus is rela- , ]y negative to the distal one and this latter therefore relatively five , other characteristics of the response are accentuated ; the ial movement forming the ascending limb of the spike is quickly .eked and succeeded by one of opposite character , whilst the 'longed change disappears .
t would be beyond the scope of the present communication to 3i- upon any discussion as to the physiological meaning of the luges here referred to .
It may , however , be pointed out that the llts fully support the conclusions arrived at by Hermann from otome observations , viz. , that those portions of the extrapolar ion nearer the anode are during polarisation capable of a moie nounced excitatory electrical change than those more remote , 'ilst those portions of the cathodic region nearer the cathode are ceptible of a less pronounced change than those more remote* \#166 ; , v features are , however , brought to light by the present research i ndicated in the preceding paragraphs .
The Electromotive Force of the Changes .
Che records allow of the calculation of the E.M.F. of the potential erence between the contacts .
The table appended to this com-nication gives five examples of the results of the method of Uysis introduced by one of us f ( Gr .
J.B. ) The five examples tijcted are the analyses of excursions such as are figured in curves , ( ii ) , ( iii ) , ( vii ) , and ( viii ) of fig. 1 .
In addition to the intrinsic erest which attaches to the estimation of the E.M.F. of the electrical ponse to a single stimulus , the analyses present certain features ich may be briefly alluded to .
The maximum E.M.F. it will be observed may reach as much as '32 volt ( Table IV ) , a suggestive fact in relation to the view held ' us as to the nervous origin of the E.M.F. of the response in the metrical organ of fishes .
XThis maximum is attained very rapidly * See Hermann , ' Handbuch der Phvsiologie , ' vol. 2 ( i ) , p. 1(\gt ; 7 .
t Burch , ' Phil. Trans. , ' A , vol. 183 ( 1892 ) , pp. 81\#151 ; 105 .
I Gfotch and Burcli , ' Phil. Trans. , ' B , vol. 187 ( 1896 ) , p. 382 .
310 Electrical Response of Nerve investigated with Analysis of Five Records of Single Response .
The difference of potential between the proximal and distal contacts is ; fL .
terms of relative negativity ( - ) or positivity ( + ) of proximal as cod',1 with distal contact .
( Distance between contacts = 10 mm. ) The differ !
of potential are given in decimals of a volt .
Time after excitation of nerve 30 mm. from proximal contact .
I. Uninjured nerve .
Electrometer contacts 10 mm. apart and both on uninjured surfaces .
II .
Eresh nerve with cross-section .
Proximal contact on uninjured surface + to distal on cross-section .
III .
Nerve excised and kept 24 hours in 0 6 per cent. NaCl .
Proximal contact on surface , distal on end .
1 IV .
Fresh uninjured nerve .
\gt ; Polarisation such that proximal contact is persistently + to distal one .
V , Fresh injured no Polarisah such th proxinii contact persister .
\#151 ; to disil one .
sec. 0-0020 start start nil nil nil 0 0025 0-0030 -0*0218 -0*0218 -0 0262 -0-0176 99 99 start \#151 ; 0 *005 0-0035 | -0*0218 -0-0144 \#187 ; start \#151 ; 0*008 0 0040 -6*0002 -0-0127 99 -0*0083 -0*011 0 -0045 + 0 *0145 -0-0103 start -0*0135 -0*016 0 -0050 + 0 *0128 -0-0081 -0 0093 -0*0182 \#151 ; 0*022 \lt ; 0 -0055 + 0*0113 \#151 ; 0-0054 -0-0145 -0*0250 -0*011 0-0060 + 0-0101 -0-0029 -0 -0178 -0 *0329 -0*000 0 -0065 + 0 *0099 - 0 -0004 -0-0093 -0*0328 + 0*005 0-007 + 0 *0054 + 0-0015 -0 -0002 -0*0328 + 0*009 0-008 + 0 *0007 + 0-0016 + 0 -0041 -0*0003 + 0*008 0-009 + 0 *0004 + 0 -0020 + 0 -0050 + 0*0002 + 0*007( 0-010 + 0*0000 + 0-0023 + 0-0113 0 *0000 + 0 *00\amp ; 0 -Oil . .
+ 0-0023 + 0-0116 0*0000 +0*003 ' : 0 -012 . .
+ 0-0023 + 0 0024 -0*0001 + 0*001+ 0 -013 . .
+ 0 -0026 + 0-0011 -0*0002 0*000( 0 -014 . .
i + 0-0029 + 0-0010 -0*0005 0 -016 1 -0-0002 + 0 0007 -0*0011 0-018 . .
-0-0019 + 0-0003 -0*0016 0-020 -0-0023 0-0000 -0*0022 0 -030 . .
-0-0019 i y -0*0016 | 0 -040 -0-0013 -0*0010 0 -050 . .
-0 -0006 0 *0000 0 060 0 0000 1 especially in the fresh nerve ; the first indications of its presence1 fresh nerve at 6 ' 0 .
occur 0*002 second after the stimulation of t plexus when the seat of this stimulation is 30 mm. from the pro ' mal electrometer contact .
The response is thus propagated fro the seat of stimulation at a rate of from 10 to 15 metres per secoi under these* conditions .
This is confirmed by the time relations the culmination and commencing decline in the change , for in fro nerve this begins in about 0*001 second with a distance of 10 n11 between the proximal and distal contacts .
In the example of f IS On the Magnetic Susceptibility Oxygen .
311 ur given in the third column , both the commencement and the raination of the initial change are retarded , the propagation rate iiis nerve at a temperature of G ' C. being slowed to 6 metres per nd .
A comparison of the fourth and fifth columns shows the rdation in the anodic as compared with the acceleration in the odic extrapolar region .
Finally the time relations and the dive E.M.F. of the prolonged effect present in the instances given lie second and fourth columns may be compared with those of I initial change present in all the examples .
It will be seen that change producing the prolonged tail of the photographic record no which differs from that producing the initial spike in the u owing important particulars : it develops slowly , taking from 6 to 0 01 second to culminate , its maximum E.M.F. is only one-\lt ; h of that of the initial change , and it subsides slowly .
It is not , ent in the instances given in columns I , III , and V. i a more extended communication the authors hope to bring / ard other features of the response of nerve , particularly the .acters exhibited by the records of the changes produced by a os of stimuli and of those produced during reflex discharge of the * ral nervous system .
i the Magnetic Susceptibility of Liquid Oxygeu .
" By J. A. Fleming , M.A. , D.Sc .
, F.R.S. , Professor of Electrical Engineering in University College , London , and James Dewar , M.A. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution , London , \amp ; c. Received May 9 , \#151 ; Read May 12 , 1898 .
i a previous communication * we have described the initial stigations made by us to determine directly the numerical value *ie magnetic permeability of liquid oxygen , and we there indi-d that we hoped before long to present to the Royal Society the its of other experiments made by a different physical method ch we anticipated would enable us to state whether liquid oxygen a constant magnetic susceptibility , or whether , like a ferro-qnetic substance , its magnetic susceptibility alters when subjected ifferent magnetic forces .
Te have recently obtained results which , though limited to a ' ain range of force , we think afford fairly trustworthy values ot magnetic susceptibility of liquid oxygen under magnetising forces ying from 500 to 2500 C.G.S. units , and place them therefore on Lrd .
' Roy .
Soc. Proc. , ' 1896 , vol. 60 , p. 283 , " On the Magnetic Permeability of nd Oxygen and Liquid Air .
" 0L .
LXIli .
^ A

