1878.1 Capt. Abney on the Acceleration of Oxidation , fyc .
451 II .
" On the Acceleration of Oxidation by the Least Refrangible End of the Spectrum .
" Note II .
By Captain Abney , R.E. , F.R.S. Received June 8 , 1878 .
In my first note on this subject it was stated that further experiments would be undertaken , in which sensitive films would be exposed to the action of the spectrum in atmospheres free from oxygen .
These have been carried out by means , of apparatus specially designed for the purpose , hydrogen and nitrogen being the atmospheres employed , and in some cases hydrogen vacua .
In every case the experiments were confirmatory of what was previously surmised , the image showing no signs of oxidation , and there is evidence to show that the limit of sensibility of the compounds used is lowered towards the least refrangible end of the spectrum .
Exposure of films in solutions which readily combine with oxygen , and at the same time with the halogens , have given most remarkable results .
For instance , silver bromide which by its colour should have proved sensitive to the red end , yet when exposed in the usual manner was insensitive below B in the spectrum , proved sensitive when exposed , in sodium sulphite ( Na2S03 ) , and arrived at M the lowest limit ( about W.L. 12,000 ) which I have as yet photographed .
In the same solution , to quote another experiment , silver iodide proved sensitive to a point between a and A. The experiments were carried out in duplicate .
In one the plate was immersed in the solution , and in another the salt was dissolved when possible in glycerine and applied to the film .
Both methods answered equally well , but for some purposes the latter is more convenient .
My experiments also prove , that what is technically known as solari-zation is due to the oxidation of the image , accelerated by light generally , be it the more or less refrangible end of the spectrum .
This oxidation causes the formation of a compound which is undevelopable , as already has been pointed out .
It has thus been found impossible to produce solarization in solutions which have oxygen absorbents .
We may therefore conclude that the whole spectrum exercises a reducing action on the sensitive salt , and that this reduced compound is again capable of being oxidized by it .
The relative power of the two actions seems to vary according to the part of the spectrum .
This subject is still under consideration .
In my first note I also mentioned that photography in natural colours probably depended on the same action .
My surmise is confirmed to a great extent .
If silver sub-chloride or silver sub-bromide be produced chemically , we have a dark compound formed which , if exposed to the action of the spectrum whilst in an oxidizing solution ( such as hydrogen peroxide ) , rapidly takes the colour of the rays acting upon it , Prof. A. Cayley on Quaniics .
[ June 20v the yellow being the least marked .
The red , green , and bine are however particularly well rendered by reflected light , and the plate shows the colours as seen when a dull light is thrown on the slit of the spectroscope , a simile which was suggested to me by Mr. Norman Lockyer .
From the evidence obtained by these experiments it appears that two or three molecular groupings are sufficient to give the necessary colours , a subject which I only allude to , since the more general question of molecular groupings is being considered by others .
III .
" A Tenth Memoir on Quantics .
" By A. Cayley , Sadlerian Professor of Pure Mathematics in the University of Cambridge .
Received June 12 , 1878 .
( Abstract .
) The present memoir , which relates to the binary quintic ( *)(\#187 ; , y):\ has been in hand for a considerable time ; the chief subject-matter was intended to be the theory of a canonical form discovered by myself , and which is briefly noticed in " Salmon 's Higher Algebra , " 3rd Ed ( 1876 ) , pp. 217 , 218 ; writing a , b c , . . .
u , v , w , to denote the 23 covariants of the quintic , then a , b , c , d , f are connected by the relation / 3 = \#151 ; a ?
d -f- a2bc \#151 ; 4c3 ; and the form contains these covariants thus connected together , and also ; it in fact is . . .
( 1 , 0 , c , f , a2b \#151 ; 3c2 , a2e \#151 ; 2cf)(x , y)s .
But the whole plan of the memoir was changed by Sylvester 's discovery of what I term the Numerical Generating Function ( N.G.F. ) of the covariants of the quintic , and my own subsequent establishment of the Real Generating Function ( R.G.F. ) of the same covariants .
The effect of this was to enable me to establish for any given degree in the coefficients and order in the variables , or , as it is convenient to express it , for any given deg-order whatever , a selected system of powers and products of the covariants , say a system of " segregates these are asyzygetic , that is , not connected together by any linear equation with numerical coefficients ; and they are also such that every other combination of covariants of the same deg-order , say , every .'congregate " of the same deg-order , can be expressed ( and that , obviously , in one way only ) as a linear function , with numerical coefficients , of the segregates of that deg-order .
The number of congregates of a given deg-order is precisely equal to the number of the independent syzygies of the same deg-order , so that these syzygies give in effect the congregates in terms of the segregates : and the proper form in which to exhibit the syzygies is then to make each of them give a single congregate in terms of the segregates , viz. , the left hand side can always be taken to be a monomial congregate aabp . . .
, or , to avoid fractions , a numerical multiple of such form , and the right hand

