]\gt ; of Light Shells , rxnd by omplete Spheres of Periodic , when the Refractivity is Small .
By , O.NI .
, F.R.S. ( Received January 28 , 1918 .
) The of a small sphel.e of uniform optical quality has been treated in In general , the calculations can be carried an conclusion only when the circumference of ) sphere does not exceed a .
But when the ] ative ) efractivity is small nough , iction cam be dispensed with , and a eneral result mulated .
In the ) esent } ) some forulel results are quoted , but the vestigaGion is now improved method .
It commences with the case of an infinitely thin spherical which the sult for the complete uniform sphere is derived integration .
Afterwards application is made to a complete sphere , of hich the structure is syInnletrical but periodically variable along the , a roblcnl of interest iu connection with the colours , with the ) , often met with in the organic world .
The specific ilJductive capacity of the eneral medium being unity , that of sphere of radius is supposed to be , where K-l is very small .
Electric placemeJlts denoted by , the wave is taken to bc , ( 1 ) that the direction of is along atively ) , and that of tion parallel The electric displacements in the scattered wave , so as they ] ) ) ' of , have at a great distance the values , ( 2 ) .
( 3 In these c denotes the distance between the point where is to be estimated , and the element of volume of he .
The of the here R will be taken as the origin of Iinates .
It is virlent that , so ils the seoondary ray is concerned , il .
; vol. 12 , p. ; vol. 47 , p. 37 ( 1881 ) ) .
Proc , vol. 84 , p. 25(1910 ) ; vol. 90 , p. 219(1914 ) ; 'Scientific , 104 , 618 ; vol. 4 , p. 397 ; vol. 5 , p. 547 ; vol. 6 , p. 220 ( not yet .
the of depends only on the angle this makeh with the primary We will pose that in the direction backwards the primary ray , and that the ) imary ray continued .
in ( 3 ) may then be found in the denoting the distance of the poiltt ( observation bhe sphere .
In the paper of 1914 I that nteo r. in ( 4 ) be simply expressed by cular fions in virt ue ( theorem } by Hobson , so that .
( 5 ) where .
( 6 ) In ( 5 ) the optical quality of ) sphere , ) by used to be uniform throughout .
In view of an ap plication presently to sidered , it was desired to obtain the expression for a spherical of thickness , from which could be derived the value ) for complete symmetrical sphere whose optical quality varies along the radius .
The required result is obtainetl at once from ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) by differentiation .
We find the value of for a spherical shell of volume simplicity of ( 7 ) suggested that the reasoning by which it had been ttl.rived at is needlessly , and that a better ) votlld I ) one , in which ( 7 ) was established first , and the result sphere derived from it by integration .
And his atio was easily rnled .
Commencing then with a shell centre and radius OA equal to , let be the direction of the prinna1y and that of the secondary ray ( fig. 1 ) .
Draw in the plane of the le betweell these lines and let be co-ordinate measured from in the direction thnt the plane AOA , ) repl esented is , as in onr { ormer notation .
ve } to con cider the represented by Bhe in P. For point the neIllia 1 factor is in theory of reflection , the same is true for every in plane AOA and therefore for the element of stlrfa(ae at AA whose volume is .
For points in ) lane in the ) .
XCIV.\mdash ; A. Lord Rayleigh .
arallel { AA at ( Iistance the linear retardation is , as in the of hin plates ; and ] ) onential factor is .
Thg ele the } BB is till t ( 3 ) in ( 8 ) given by ecover.(7 ) of for a shell olume 4 spherical shell been now obtained indepass at once by to the corresponding tlniform optical quality , thus by a nrelhod at all .
And a comparison of the eSheh ( ffords a demonstration of Hobson 's theorem formerly a stepping stone .
lVhen 1 ' is , the secondary vibration is givell by in which we as it depends , the angular distribution , of ical round Ox , the direction of primary it depends on the other factors , etc. , it is the ( infini tely small sphere ; in ) articular no ray is emitted in the , that in the direction of primary vibration .
no the value of if ( K\mdash ; 1 ) be small ( jnough ; but the dtiol 1illlportaut , since it is necessary that at point of the .
the 1 darion of the waves due to the obstacle be negligible .
is aled with usually varies rapidly with an given complete miform sphere ( 5 ) .
An curs is nearly equal to ?
, that is when the ray On the Scattering of Light by Shells .
is nearly in the direction of the primary ray continued .
In case is very small .
an endell { of is proportional to .
} is .
( 9 ) The haze source of a lnediunl is of ] reat i. And cause is hinl that the roJn the various ] } ) a small phase .
But in general also is periodically with ] then be conccrned } with the mean value of of the llea]/ alne i or ately , \ldquo ; When oduce talue of fro1n ( 6 ) , Mean 10 ) occurrence of hal this is in ) small in coll il ) with ( 9 ) .
If , instead of a hphere of miful quality , have to deal ilh K-1 ) is variable , we ulust ) .
The case of glentest interest is ( K-1 ) , besides ( ( 1 ) includeb a periodic ) constant part the rtiou ] ) ils befolt : , ( for he periodic ) whele ( K-1 ) ries a a nlal , it ] ) lto tlifficully .
may tlfice to consider ) sc i.s } to , ab by ( 6 ) ; this supposition evidently to a large aug1nentalion ) , analogous to occurs in crystals of of which a .
structure is 'Phil .
Mag vol. 26 , 1 ) ; 'Scientific vo1 .
.3 , 300 On Li.qht by Spherical Shells .
that the of the structure vow supposed varies with , as we with , if K-l , ( 11 ) when the tion is for a complete sphere radius R. If is , that , if be a multiple of , the first ternl the light of ( 1 ] ) prepon aCPs , use approximately .
( 12 ) , if ( K-1 ) has no cnn } ) relation betweell the -length of the structure and that of the expressed by .
( 14 ) It eems probable ) a of this sort is the cause of the remarkable coloul .
S , variable with the angle of observation , which are so frequent in beetles , butterllies , and feathers .

