XXI .
A description of he teeth of the Delphinus Gangetius .
By Sir Everard Home , Bart. P. R. S. Read June 4 , 1818 .
THE Delphinus Gangeticus is described by the late Dr. RoxBURGH , in the seventh volume of the Asiatick Researches , published in 1781 ; but no farther account is given of its teeth , than that the number is 1o , 30 in each jaw , nor have I met with any description of them in other publications .
Dr. SHAW published his second volume of General Zoology , in which the whale tribe is mentioned , in 180o .
He says , a narrow snouted dolphin is supposed to inhabit the Indian seas ; but it is only known to us from specimens of the head and jaws .
The jaws are extremely narrow , the teeth small , not numerous , distant , and shaped somewhat like the molares of quadrupeds .
This description corresponds so ill with the teeth of the Delphinus Gangeticus , that it would almost induce us to believe that it is meant for those of another animal .
A specimen of the upper and lower jaw of the Delphinus Gangeticus was given to me , 17 years ago , by Sir JosEPH BANKs , and has been deposited ever since in the HUNTERIAN Collection ; but it was only the other day that an accidental reference to the Asiatick Researches led us to discover the animal to which they belong .
The singularity of the teeth made it always a remarkable object , and now the animal is known , a description of them may not be undeserving the attention of this Society .
The jaws and teeth form the most remarkable characters of this species of delphinus , and a description of them will not only interest the naturalist and comparative anatomist , but will enable the geologist , when fossil teeth are found of this shape , readily to determine the species of animal to which they had belonged .
These teeth , as is common in those of the whale tribe , have the first rudiments formed in the gum , from which the tooth grows in both directions , upwards through the gum in the form of the point of a flattened cone which is coated with enamel , and downwards towards the jaw , increasing considerably in breadth but not in thickness , till it is at last embedded in the substance of the jaw itself ; the lower portion has no enamel .
The appearance the teeth put on , as well as the mode of growth , will be seen in the annexed drawing ; [ PI .
xx .
] the change that takes place in the form of the tooth as it wears away from long use , is more remarkable than in most other teeth ; for the perfect tooth has a tolerably sharp enamelled point , while the half worn one has a curved blunted cutting edge .
The teeth in front of the jaw are more like the incisores in other animals .
The whole number in both jaws is 120 , which exactly corresponds with that given by Dr. BOXBURGH , and identifies these jaws as belonging to the animal which he has described .
/ YiiYoy .
is~/ Y. IVI 1 )C : C CXVL % .
/ ~j ?
a1 .
pj .
i ; ?e Iii I"i:i it ; .
h - " I : ?
ir 11B i. .
/ :-i 'i ' 3lt ; U &amp; :\-iii iukkZ i : , l:E i ; , ii 2id Jbi ?
'i ?
i : u'\ ?
I i\ ?
' ?
c ' w ii ; i i i ?
I ii 1 ; 1 : : : ?
1 .
; i , ?
.§ 1ii !
iii:i:1.1. . ?
stn , §§ ; I:ii I ?
-:*2 L:::IL .
EJICI ?
, d : ?
IS:i ?
i : ?
51--\ r"r ?
\d iS:j:c -II ?
I:9 : " _ -J:i r ; i i ; 4e Jj EXPLANATION OF PLATE XX , Fig. i. A side view of the upper jaw , to show the form of the teeth .
Fig. 2 .
The same view of the under jaw .
Both these figures are on a scale of 4 inches to a foot .
Fig. 3 .
One of the most perfect of the teeth , of its natural size ; it is taken from the lower jaw .
Fig. 4 .
A tooth in its growing state , represented of the natural size , from the lower jaw .

