On the Anomaly in the Variation of the Magnetic Needle as observed on Ship-board .
By William Scoresby , jun .
Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks , Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read February 4 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 96 .
] The anomalies in magnetic observations on ship-board were usually attributed to imperfectiols of the azimuth compass , till Capt. Flinders suggested the influence of the iron used in the construction of the ship as their probable source , -a suggestion since confirmed and illustrated by Mr. Bain .
In this paper , Mr. Scoresby has given a table of the selected results of his observations relating to this subject , conducted on the coast of Spitzbergen , in the years 1815 and 1817 .
To these he has added some general inferences , deduced at the time of observation , and observes , that the anomaly of attraction is probably the greatest in men-of-war , and ships containing large quantities of iron , though it also exists to a considerable extent in merchantmen where iron forms no part of the cargo , especially in high latitudes where the dip of the needle is great .
On the Genus Ocythoie ; being an Extract of a Letter from Thomas Say , Esq. of Philadelphia , to William Elford Leach , M.D. F.R.S. Read February 4 , 1819 .
[ Phil. Trans. 1819 , p. 107 .
] After describing a genus of Ocythoe , which the author regards as new , he observes that the Ocythoe offers a deviation from the ordinary laws which apply to the testaceous Mollusca , inasmuch as it resides only in the last volution of the shell ; and as the shell does not fit the body , it appears probable that it was not made for it , more especially as there is no attachment between the shell and any part of the body .
The shells that approach nearest to Argonauta are of that order : this supposition , however , is not corroborated by the habits of the animal ; for all hitherto discovered of that order swim to the surface ; and having no other organs of locomotion than fins , cannot glide upon the bottom .
We must , therefore , suppose this to have been the habit of the animal ; and yet it is hardly admissible that in that case it should have eluded the observation of voyagers , when the shell has often been found occupied by the parasite .

