I. " On the Combustion of Hydrogen and Carbonic Oxide in Oxygen under great pressure .
" By E. FRANKLAND , F.R.S. , Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution and in the Royal School of Mines .
Received June 11 , 1868 .
In a former communication to the Royal Society* I described some researches on the effect of a diminution of pressure on some of the phenomena of combustion , and deduced therefrom the law that the diminution in illuminating-power is directly proportional to the diminution in atmospheric pressure .
Further experiments , made more than a year ago , on the nature of the luminous agent in a coal-gas flame % , led me to doubt the correctness of the commonly received theory first propounded by Sir Ilumphry Davy$ , that the light of a gas-flame and of luminous flames in general is due to the presence of solid particles .
In reference to gasand candle-flames , it is now well known that the fuliginous matter produced when a piece of wiregauze is depressed upon such flames , and the sooty deposit which coats a piece of white porcelain placed in a similar position , are not pure carbon , but contain hydrogen , which is only completely got rid of by prolonged exposure to a white heat in an atmosphere of chlorine .
On pursuing the subject further , I found that there are many flames possessing a high degree of luminosity which cannot possibly contain solid particles .
Thus the flame of metallic arsenic burning in oxygen emits a remarkably intense white light ; and as metallic arsenic volatilizes at 180 ?
C. , and its product of combustion ( arsenious anhydride ) at 218 ?
C. , whilst the temperature of incandescence of solids is at least 500 ?
C. , it is obviously impossible here to assume the presence of ignited solid particles in the flame .
Again , if carbonic disulphide vapour be made to burn in oxygen , or oxygen in carbonic disulphide vapour , an almost insupportably brilliant light is the result .
Now fuliginous matter is never present in any part of this flame , and the boiling-point of sulphur ( 440 ?
C. ) is below the temperature of incandescence , so that the assumption of solid particles in the flame is here also inadmissible .
If the last experiment be varied by the substitution of nitric oxide gas for oxygen , the result is still the same ; and the dazzling light produced by the combustion of these compounds is also so rich in the more refrangible rays , that it has been employed in taking instan .
taneous photographs , and for exhibiting the phenomena of fluorescence .
Many other similar cases of the production of brilliant light from incandescent , gaseous , or vaporous matter might be cited ; but I will mention only one other .
Amongst the chemical reactions celebrated for the production of dazzling light , there are few which surpass the active combustion of phosphorus in oxygen .
Now phosphoric aurhydride , the product of this combustion , is volatile at a red heat ; and it is therefore manifestly impossible that this substance should exist in the solid form at the temperature of the phosphorus-flame , which far transcends the melting-point of platinum .
For these reasons , and for others stated in the lectures above quoted , I consider that incandescent particles of carbon are not the source of light in gasand candle-flames , but that the luminosity of these flames is due to radiations from dense but transparent hydrocarbon vapours .
As a further generalization from the experiment above mentioned , I was led to the conclusion that dense gases and vapours become luminous at much lower temperatures than aeriform fluids of comparatively low specific gravity , and that this result is to a great extent , if not altogether , independent of the nature of the gas or vapour , inasmuch as I found that gases of low density , which are not lminous at a given temperature when burnt under common atmospheric pressure , become so when they are simultaneously compressed .
Thus mixtures of hydrogen and carbonic oxide with oxygen emit but little light when they are burnt or exploded in free air , but exhibit intense luminosity when exploded in closed glass vessels , so as to preve.nt their expansion at the moment of combustion .
I have recently extended these experiments to the combustion of jets of hydrogen and carbonic oxide in oxygen under a pressure gradually increasing to twenty atmospheres .
These experiments were conducted in a strong iron vessel , furnished with a thick plate of glass of sufficient size to permit of the optical examination of the flame .
The results are so remarkable that , although still far from being complete , I venture to communicate them to the Royal Society before the close of the Session .
The appearance of a jet of hydrogen burning in oxygen under the ordinary atmospheric pressure is too well known to need description .
On increasing the pressure to two atmospheres , the previously feeble lumianosity is very visibly augmented , whilst at ten atmospheres ' pressure the light ernitted by a jet about I inch long is amply sufficient to enable the observer to read a newspaper at a distance of 2 feet from the flame , and this without any reflecting surface behind the flame .
Examinied by the spectroscope , the ectru of this flame is bight and perfectly continuous from red to violet .
With a higher initial luminosity , the flame of carbonic oxide in oxygen becomes much more luminous at a pressure of ten atmospheres than a flame of hydrogen of the same size and burning under the same pressure .
The spectrum of carbonic oxide burning in air is well known to be continnuous ; burnt in oxygen under a pressure of fourteen atmospheres , the spectrum of the flame is very brilliant , and perfectly continuous .
If it be true that dense gases emit more light than rare ones when ignited , the passage of the electric spark through different gases ought to produce an amount of light varying with the density of the gas ; and this is in fiact the case , for electric sparks passed as nearly as possible under similar conditions through : hydrogen , oxygen , chlorine , and sulphurous anhydride emit light the intensity of which is very slight in the case of hydrogen , considerable in that of oxygen , and very great in the case of chlorine and sulphurous anhydride .
When liquefied sulphurous anhydride is scaled up in a strong tube furnished withi platinum wires , and the temperature then allowed to rise until the internal pressure amounts to three or four atmospheres , the passage of induction-sparks through the enclosed gas is attenided with very brilliant flashes of light .
Further , if a stream of induction-sparks be passed through air confined in a glass tube connected with a condensing syringe , and the pressure of the air be gradually augmented to two or three atmospheres , a very marked increase in the luminesity of the sparks is observed , whilst on atllowing the condensed air to escape , the same phenomena are observed in the reverse order .
The electric arc from fifty cells of Grove 's battery is incomparably more brilliant when mercury vapour , instead of atmospheric air , is interposed in the path of the discharge between the carbon points .
The gases and vapours just mentioned have the following relative densities:-Hydrogen ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 '0 Air ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 14-5 Oxygen i ... ... ... ... ... ... . ? . .
16'0 2i Sulphurous anhydride ... ... ... ... ... ... . .
32'0 Chlorine ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 35 Mercury ... ... ... ... ... ... 100*0 It is obvious that the above results have a very direct bearing upon the views now generally held regarding the constitution of the sun , stars , and nebulee ; but I refrain from making any such application of them until I have the honour of laying before the Royal Society a complete account of these experiments .

