[ 47 ] II .
On the Organisation of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-Measures.\#151 ; Part XIY .
The true Fructification of Calamites .
By William Crawford Williamson , LL. , , Professor of Botany in the Owens College and in the Victoria University .
Received May 17 , \#151 ; Read June 16 , 1887 .
[ Plates 8-11 .
] The systematic affinities of the Carboniferous Calamites have now been a moot question for close upon fifty years\#151 ; the period that has elapsed since 1828 , when , in bis ' Prodrome d'une Histoire des Yegetaux Fossiles/ Adolphe Brongniart first suggested their relationships to the recent Equisetums .
At this time nothing was known of examples of Calamites encased in a thick vascular cylinder ; a product of the exogenous mode of growth resulting from the action of a camhial ring .
At a later period Brongniart obtained such examples from Autun and elsewhere .
But having then a conviction that no Cryptogamic stem could undergo an exogenous development , he concluded that two classes of plants had been comprehended in the genus Calamites ; the one Equisetiform , to which he continued to give the old name , the other a Gymnospermous type , to which he assigned the name of His well-merited influence led to a wide-spread acceptance of these views ; but their correctness began to be seriously questioned many years ago , on morphological grounds .
After a prolonged conflict the conclusions of those who insisted upon the Cryptogamic character alike of Calamites and of Calamodendron have met with an extensive , though not universal , acceptance .
Meanwhile both the opposing schools of Palaeontologists recognise the importance of discovering the fructification of these plants .
Mr. Carruthers believed that he had found it in examples of Calamostachys Binneyanaf and Mr. Binney arrived at a similar conclusion . !
I have always rejected these conclusions , because of the conspicuous differences between the morphology of the Calamitean twig and that of the axis of the Calamostachys .
These differences appeared to me much too great to make it possible for the one ever to have been a prolongation of the other .
In 1869 I published in the 'Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of * ' Journal of Botany , ' December , 1867 .
f ' Palasontographical Society , ' volume for 1867 .
6.2.88 .
Manchester '# a memoir " On a new form of Calamitean Strobilus from the Lancashire Coal-measures .
" The specimen described was found by Mr. Butterworth in a nodule from the Upper-foot coal in Strinesdale , near Saddleworth , in Lancashire .
It was but a fragment , consisting of three nodes and two intermediate internodes .
Its basal and terminal nodes were alike wanting .
The portion in our possession belonged rather to the lower than the upper part of the strobilus .
Though but a fragment , its well-preserved internal organisation sufficed to show the general features of the strobilus , which differed widely from those of any Carboniferous fructification previously observed .
I ventured to construct a restored diagram of this strobilus , !
and also pointed out a peculiar arched arrangement of the vessels of the xylem at each node , which I had hitherto seen only in the true Catamites .
This fact , combined with other structural peculiarities equally Calamitean , led me to conclude that the strobilus was not only the fruit of a highly developed form of , but that it was the only one hitherto discovered which had any claim to that position.| Seventeen years elapsed before further traces of this fruit were discovered .
But a few weeks ago Mr. James Lomax , of Batcliffe , one of that small band of auxiliaries to whose diligence as collectors I have long been indebted for many of the materials upon which my researches have been carried on , brought me some new sections made from a nodule given to him by another of my assistants , Isaac Earnshaw , of Oldham .
To my delight I found in these sections several specimens of the long-wished-for strobilus .
What remained of the nodule was subsequently cut in such directions as promised to afford the best results .
We have now not only much additional knowledge respecting the structure of the strobilus , hut the clearest proofs that I was not mistaken in 1869 when I expressed my strong conviction that it was the true fruit of Catamites .
The most absolute of these proofs is seen in the fact that each of three of these newly-discovered strobili had its basal peduncle attached to it ; and that these peduncles are ordinary Calamitean twigs of the type to which our French friends have long assigned the generic name of , and which they have , until recently , regarded as a Gymnospermous genus .
The sections represented in the plates have been made in as many directions as our specimens admitted of ; the only -way in which their complicated structures could be resolved .
Like the Catamites , each strobilus has a fistular medulla .
The fistular cavity , marked a in each figure displaying it , is surrounded by a thin medulla , In the transverse * Third series , vol. 4 .
f Loc .
cit. , Plate 8 , fig. 13 .
J See also the First Edition of Bennett and Vines ' translation of Sachs ' 'Text Book of Botany , ' p. 377 , where , by some oversight , the strobilus is referred to under the name of Volkmannia , which is a very different plant .
The error was corrected on p. 408 of the Second Edition of the same work .
ORGANISATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
sections , figs. 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 , ( Plates 8 , 9 ) , this tissue resembles a very regular parenchyma , the cells of which are largest near the periphery of the fistular cavity .
In the longitudinal sections they are seen to be very variable in size and form .
This variability is well seen in fig. 6 , b , where nearly every cell is accurately delineated ; and in fig. 5 their general character is represented as correctly as the size of the figure admitted of .
Many of these cells have rectangular transverse septa ; in others these septa are oblique and overlapping .
The latter form especially prevails in fig. 5 .
These medullary cells are usually most elongated vertically in the internodes , becoming much shorter , and their arrangement much less linear , at each node .
The peripheral limit of this medulla may be regarded as marked , in transverse sections , by a circle of longitudinal canals , which are constant as to number throughout the entire length of the axis of each individual strobilus .
In one example their number is 16 ; in each of four others it is 18 ; and in a sixth it is 20 .
These canals are unquestionably identical with the internodal canals of the ordinary rnites , from which , as seen in the peduncles of the strobili they present no differences whatever ; but within the strobili themselves , especially at the nodes , we find these canals arranged in pairs , as seen at c , c , in figs. 1 , 2 , and 4 .
This apparent dual arrangement is produced by a peculiar segmentation of the axis at and near each node , yet to be described .
The canals have a mean diameter of about ^jq ( '0025 ) of an inch ; one of them is seen at c in the long radial section , fig. 6 ( Plate 11 ) ; and they also appear more interruptedly at the points c , c , of fig. 5 ( Plate 10 ) .
The tissues which closely invest these canals are dense and their elements minute ; they consist , on the medullary side , of small cells ; but transverse sections reveal , on the cortical side of each canal , a wedge-shaped bundle of small vessels or tracheids , fig. 2 , d. Each wedge is composed of several longitudinal vascular laminae , which , starting from a canal , diverge somewhat as they proceed outwards , thus giving to each bundle the wedge-shaped contour seen in transverse sections of young Catamites .
The larger medullary cells , already referred to , extend outwards between each pair of the canals and their vascular bundles ( fig. 4 , b ' ) ; these cells represent the primary medullary rays of the ordinary Catamites .
In Plate 11 , fig. 6 , d , some of the vessels of one of these wedges are seen outside the canal , c. Their number increases at d ' as they approach the node , f , where the continuity of the individual vessels is interrupted ; a result either due to a disturbance of their parallelism , or , what is also probable , some of them may resolve themselves into shorter tracheids .
Whichever may be the case , these vessels or tracheids arch over the node , as they have long been observed to do in the Catamites .
This arrangement is due to the circumstance that the first-formed of these vessels or tracheids were very short , not extending beyond each node into the adjoining internodes ; the additions made exogenously to the exterior of those previously formed became successively more and more elongated ; hence they described a series of arches , each arch enclosing the smaller one upon which it rested , whilst its two extremities encroached increasingly upon the internodes , d " and d " , above and below the node .
This arrangement , which first suggested to me the idea that these strobili must be Calamitean , is also seen in Plate 10 , fig. 5 , d ' , d ' .
At the several points , b ' , of the latter figure these vessels are wanting , the section having passed , at these points , between two vascular wedges , i.e. , in the radial planes of primary medullary rays.* The vessels composing these bundles are small , their mean diameter being less than -g-Q q- ( .00125 ) of an inch .
Their structure is not well preserved in these strobili ; but enough remains to show that , whilst some of them are reticulated ( Plate 8 , fig. 7 ) , others are barred ( fig. 8 ) ; amongst the latter we find some of the type so characteristic of the Calamites , in which the fissures , representing the bordered pits of the common scalariform vessel , are so enlarged vertically as to assume an oval form ( Plate 9 , fig. 9 ) .
The Cortex.\#151 ; At each internode this is an extremely thin cellular layer outside the ring of vascular wedges ; but where the broad primary medullary rays separate those wedges there is no distinct line of separation between the cells of the cortex and those of the medulla ( Plate 10 , fig. 5 , b ' , b ' ) .
At each node the cortex expands into a cellular lenticular disk .
This is an organ of considerable thickness at its centre , but becomes rapidly thinner peripherally .
At its outer margin it subdivides into a number of free bracts , which curve upwards , investing the sporangia occupying each internode , whilst their tips rest upon the bases of the bracts of the next superior nodal disk ( Plate 10 , fig. 10 , h , Jc ) .
The greater portion of the thick central part of this disk lies , as is shown in Plate 10 , fig. 5 , h , h ' , and Plate 11 , fig. 6 , h , , not on the plane of the node , but a little above it , whilst its gradually contracted vertical extensions in opposite directions invest a considerable portion of each internode above arid below the central plane of the disk .
In its thicker portions this organ is composed of a mass of coarse parenchymatous cells , intermingled with prosenchymatous ones ( Plate 10 , fig. 10 , h , K , h " , fig. 5 , h , h ' , and h " , and Plate 11 , fig. 6 , h ) .
As it extends outwards from the central axis of the strobilus , this disk first bends downwards , but soon returns upwards with a bold curve , where its bracts , as already stated , enclose the entire internode .
Its thinner peripheral portions are chiefly composed of prosenchymatous cells ( Plate 11 , fig. 6 , A verticil of long slender sporangiophores springs from the upper surface of this disk , free , though not far , from the central axis of the strobilus .
The base of one of these is seen at fig. 5 , l , and a similar one at fig. 10 , whilst at V of the latter figure the entire length of one of these organs is preserved .
In my memoir of 1868 I attempted a restoration ( 7oc .
cit. , fig. 13 ) of this strobilus , in which the only feature of importance requiring correction is the direction given to this sporangiophore .
Having then only discovered its basal portion { Joe .
cit. , fig. 6 ) , I made it ascend into the internodal area * In describing these xylem structures , I have employed the alternative expressions , vessels or tracheids , because , in these fossil plants , it is absolutely impossible to determine with which of these elements we are dealing .
ORGANISATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
too perpendicularly , instead of bending its ascending portion obliquely outwards as well as upwards .
The above illustrations of vertical sections of these strobili render an understanding of the transverse and oblique ones easy .
Plate 11 , fig. 11 , is a transverse section , enlarged 36 diameters , of a peduncle of a strobilus .
In one of my specimens this peduncle was sufficiently long to furnish four such sections .
All the specimens I have seen have exactly the same structure , only varying slightly in the number of the vascular wedges and internodal canals .
We have a fistular medullary cavity at a , which is constricted , but not subdivided by diaphragms at the several nodes ; the medullary cells invest this cavity at b. A verticil of internodal canals is seen at c , each canal having in close contact with its outer side the vascular wedge , d. Intermediate between each two canals and their associated wedges we have the primary medal]ary rays , b ' .
Each of these features is absolutely identical with what we find in a young Calamite of the Artliropitan type .
The diameters of these peduncles range between ( 'll ) and rather more than ( '16 ) of an inch .
As is so commonly the case with ordinary Calamites , every one of them is decorticated .
Plate 8 , fig. 4 , represents a transverse section made in a plane a little below that of the greatest diameter of a nodal disk .
Its medullary cavity , a , medullary parenchyma , b , and internodal canals , c , do not differ materially from the same structures as seen in the sections of the peduncle ; but externally to these structures we now discover an enlarged cortical zone , e , in which we find nine large vertical lacunae , each having an oval section .
These lacunae can scarcely fail to remind us of those which occupy a similar position in the cortex of the living Equisetum .
The two differ in one respect .
In the living plant we have one such cortical lacuna between each two of the internodal canals ( the carinal canals of Sachs ) .
But in the fossil strobilus we find one cortical lacuna between every alternate of internodal canals .
Plate 8 , fig. 2 , represents a transverse section through the sporange-bearing portion of a strobilus , made near the middle of an internode , at which point the intersected axis , a , b , c , d , differs but little from the corresponding transverse section of the peduncle , fig. 11 .
But it is otherwise with figs. 1 and 3 , each of which represents a section of which one-half passes through a nodal disk at a higher level than was done in the specimen fig. 4 .
At h , h , in each of the figures 1 and 3 , where the disk extends peripherally beyond the lacunae , i , it consists of the coarse parenchyma shown in fig. 5 , h , h ' , and li\ and in fig. 6 , h. In the specimen , fig. 1 , the section has been made obliquely through the strobilus , having passed through the nodal disk at its lower half , but ascended into the internode above the disk at its upper margin ; here we see the cortical lacunae at i , i , whilst at i ' , i ' , they are only represented by mete concave longitudinal grooves on the exterior of the axis , which grooves become less and less conspicuous as we approach the centre of the internode , as is shown in Plate 8 , fig. 2 .
On each side of the segment , h " , of the disk we discover two small cuticular lacunae , i " , which we shall H 2 meet with again in figs. 17 and 18 .
At the outer angle of each of these small lacunae we find a sporangiophore , V , intersected transversely close to where it sprang from the nodal disk .
These sporangiophores , along with similar ones near to them , are part of a verticil of twenty , the remaining sixteen of which are seen to recede further and further from the central axis of the section until , at l , l , they become isolated amongst the spores of the internode above the disk from which they spring .
The number of these sporangiophores is invariably identical with that of the internodal canals , c , and of the vascular wedges external to those canals .
It is also exactly double that of the larger cortical lacunse , of the nodal disk .
Transverse sections of these sporangiophores vary somewhat in form ; but such sections always approximate to the contour of fig. 12 , Plate 10 .
Apparently they consist only of prosenchymatous cells , disposed longitudinally ; but it is scarcely probable that they should not contain a small vascular bundle of some kind .
I have , as yet , discovered no trace of any such bundle , either given off by any of the axial vascular wedges , or traversing any one of my numerous sections of the cellular nodal disk .
The Sporangia.\#151 ; Combining sections made in various directions , as in figs. 2 , 3 , 13 , and 14,1 have been enabled to determine the arrangement of these organs .
Fig. 2 we have already seen to be a transverse section across an internode .
This strobilus seems to have been compressed laterally .
The sporangia have been arranged in two concentric verticils , mand m 1 between which the sporangiophores passed obliquely upwards and outwards .
Plate 9 , fig. 3 , is an oblique transverse section which has passed through the descending portion of a nodal disk , intersecting the bases , of the peripheral bracts at the upper part of the figure ; hence it has failed to intersect any of the sporangia. .
But on its lower half it has almost cut through the strobilus in the plane of the obliquely ascending sporangiophores .
At this latter part we again discover the two series of sporangia , m and m , and the sporangiophores at l , l. Plate 11 , fig. 14 , represents a yet more oblique section , which passed through two nodal disks , h and h\ and three internodes , g , g ' , and g'\ Both g and g show the two verticils of sporangia at m and m. Plate 9 , fig. 13 , represents the only fragment of a true tangential section I have been able to obtain , and this is but an imperfect one , owing to a circumstance yet to be described .
In this section the marginal bracts of two nodal disks are intersected at k , k !
, and the two verticils of sporangiophores ascending from these disks are seen at l , l ' .
The walls of the sporangia constituting the upper and inner verticil of the internode V are present at m ' , and the sporangiophores at , l. Several points are demonstrated by the facts just described : the sporangia are very numerous ; they are all arranged radially in two verticils ; as is shown by fig. 13 , their vertical length much exceeds their transverse diameters ; their perpendicular lateral surfaces are flat and virtually parallel to each other , allowance being made for the fact that , seen in transverse sections , the inner border of each sporangium is somewhat ORGANISATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
thinner than its outer one .
In the inner verticil this inner border has a mean diameter of from ( *0066 ) to -5yj ( '02 ) of an inch , whilst their peripheral margins in the same verticil range between -8-0- ( '012 ) and -5L0- ( '02 ) of an inch .
In the outer verticil the tangential diameter of each sporangium is rather greater\#151 ; ranging from yy ( '02 ) at their inner edges to -3y ( '033 ) of an inch at their peripheral ones .
I have sought in vain for evidence showing where and how these sporangia are attached to the sporangio-phores .
As a rule , each sporangiophore appears to be the point at which four sporangia , two from each verticil , meet , as is the case with the genus Calamostachys ; but there seem to be exceptions even to this arrangement , apparently due to the number of the sporangia being less constant than that of the sporangiophores .
The wall of the sporangium is composed of a single layer of cells ( Plate 10 , fig. 15 , flattened externally , but projecting convexly into the interior of the sporangium .
The cell-walls , especially the inner and lateral ones , are slightly thickened .
Each spherical spore ( fig. 15 , o ) is enclosed within a ruptured mother-cell , and has a small dark mass in its centre , the nature of which is doubtful .
In several of my sections , especially fig. 1 , the sporangia are in a noteworthy condition ; whilst some of the sporangia retain their sporangial walls , these walls have wholly disappeared from others .
Thus in the section , fig. 1 , the only traces of them which remain are a few isolated fragments .
The same is the case at m , in the lower part of the internode g of fig. 13 .
Other sections show smaller portions of sporangia in a similar state .
In such examples the sporangiophores are simply surrounded by compact masses of free spores .
The only probable explanation of this condition is that these sporangial walls have been removed by a process of absorption or degradation in order to liberate the spores which , unlike those of the living Equisetums , are not provided with other special means of being set free .
If this explanation is correct , the masses of spores must have been held together in the later stages of their development solely by the nodal disks and their upturned fringes of broad peripheral bracts .
Fig. 16 represents a lateral view of the lowest node and internode of Mr. Butter-worth 's original specimen , from which the section , fig. 1 , was taken .
I presume that the vertical ridges separated by furrows indicate the contours of a corresponding number of marginal bracts .
Fig. 17 represents the concave under surface of the same specimen , * the concentric inflections of which evidently represent those of a nodal disk ; most probably those of its inferior surface .
In its centre , we see the fistular medullary cavity .
Surrounding this we have at an inner verticil of ten cortical lacunae , identical with those seen at i of fig. 1 .
Yet more externally we have twenty smaller lacunae , i " , occupying the same positions as the two indicated by i " , i " , in fig. 1 .
The extreme regularity of these latter lacunae is remarkable ; the more so , because of their imperfect preservation in other sections .
That they were * This was obviously not the lowest node of the strobilus .
normal features of the disk is shown by the section , fig. 18 , which represents a fragment taken from fig. 17 and further enlarged .
The two sets of lacunae , i ' , seen in that figure , are seen in fig. 18 to have well-defined contours suggestive of something more than accidental lesions .
They obviously bear some definite relations to the sporangiophores , l , of fig. 1 , traces of which also appear at V , of fig. 18 .
Fig. 19 ( Plate 9 ) is a radial section of a small twig or stem of a young Calamite , introduced for comparison with Plate 11 , fig. 6 .
In this Calamite is the medulla ; c , c , internodal canals ; d , a vascular bundle ; and d ' } the arching vessels of that bundle opposite the node f Having thus shown most of the details of the organisation of this strobilus from actual specimens , we run little risk of error in representing its morphology as seen in a vertical section by the restored diagram , fig. 20 ( Plate 9 ) .
The letters of reference are used in the same way as in the previous figures .
The sections at m , m\ show the inner and outer verticils of the sporangia only , having passed between two sporangiophores whilst at l , l , these sporangiophores are intersected vertically .
The cortical lacunae introduced at i , i , are omitted elsewhere for the same reasons .
The fact that so many specimens of these fruits , otherwise so rare , were aggregated in one small nodule probably indicates that they were borne singly upon the extremities of several small branches clustered round the extremity of one stem .
Descriptive Index to the Plates .
Plate .
Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
8 1 Transverse section of the strobilus described in the ' Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester ' in 1869 : a , medullary cavity ; b , medullary cells ; c , internodal canals ; h , outward extension of the nodal disk ; i , vacant spaces corresponding to the cortical lacunae of fig. 4 ; i"a more peripheral series of cortical lacunae ; l , sporangiophores ; o , mass of spores , each in a mother-cell .
X 13^ .
Cabinet , No. 110 .
49 , 51 , 53 8 2 1 j Transverse section of a strobilus made through an internode : a , b , c , as in fig. 1 ; d , vascular bundles ; k , portions of the marginal bracts fringing the nodal disks ; l , sporangiophores ; m , m ' , outer and inner verticils of sporangia .
X 9 .
Cabinet , No. 1583 49 , 51 , 52 ORGANISATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES .
55 Plate .
Fig. 1 Pages on which references are made to the figures .
9 3 Obliquely transverse section of a strobilus , the upper part of which has passed through a nodal disk , whilst its lower one has intersected an internode : a , medullary cavity ; b , medullary cells ; h , peripheral extensions of the disk ; i , marginal bracts ; cortical lacunae of the disk ; l , sporangiophores ; m , outer verticil of sporangia ; in ' , inner verticil of the same .
X 9 .
Cabinet , No. 1567 49,50,51,52 8 4 Transverse section through a node of a strobilus , made a little below the plane of the extension of the cortex into the thin nodal disk , especially at the lower portion of the figure : i ' , verticil of lacunae passing vertically through the thicker part of the disk .
X 13^ .
Cabinet , No. 1564 49 , 50 , 51 10 5 Longitudinal section through the central axis of a stro-bilus : a , medullary cavity ; b , medulla ; c , portions of longitudinal internodal canals ; d , vascular bundles ; f , f , nodes ; g , g , internodes ; h , h ' , h " , portions of three nodal disks ; l , base of a sporangio-phore .
X 19 .
Cabinet , No. 1573 49 , 50 , 51 11 6 Radial section through one node and portions of two internodes of a strobilus : a , medullary cavity ; b , medulla ; c , internodal canal ; d ' , vascular wedge crossing a node , and extended into two internodes at d " , d " ; h , h ' , part of the nodal disk of the node f. X 45 .
Cabinet , No. 1569 ... ... . .
49,50,51,54 9 7 A reticulated vessel from a vascular bundle .
X 200 .
50 9 8 A barred vessel from the same bundle .
X 200 .
50 .9 9 A barred vessel from the same bundle , but with large oval pits .
X 200 50 10 10 A vertical , partially tangential , section passing through three nodes and portions of four internodes of a strobilus : a , medullary cavity ; b , medulla and cortex in the condition of fig. 5 , b ' , passing between two vascular bundles ; h , K , hportions of three nodes PROFESSOR W. C. WILLIAMSON ON THE Plate .
Fig. Pages on which references are made to the figures .
with nodal disks ; e , a cortical layer , detached from the axis , extending from h to li ; bracteate extensions of the margins of the three nodal disks ; l , base of a sporangiophore ; a perfect sporangio- phore .
X 9 .
Cabinet , No. 1569 50 11 11 A transverse section through the peduncle of a strobilus , made below its basal nodal disk , and where the structure is identical with that of an ordinary twig of a decorticated Calamite : medullary cavity ; b , medulla ; b ' , primary medullary rays ; c , internodal canals ; d , vascular wedges .
X 36 .
Cabinet , No. 1567 51 10 12 Transverse section of a sporangiophore .
X 100 52 9 13 A tangential section of two nodes and parts of two internodes of a strobilus : k , k\ nodes , indicated by the horizontal lines of transversely intersected marginal bracts ; k " , similar longitudinally intersected bracts ; g and g ' , internodes ; l , l ' , sporangiophores ; m , walls of the vertical sporangia of the upper part of the internode ; m , spores of the outer verticil of sporangia , of which the sporangial walls have disappeared .
X 13| .
Cabinet , No. 1579 52 , 53 11 14 A very oblique , long , almost tangential section through a strobilus : li , K , two nodes ; g , g " , three internodes ; k , bracts intersected near the margin of the disk ; k " , ascending bract ; outer verticil of sporangia ; m ' , m ' , inner verticil of sporangia ; l , sporangiophores .
X 7 .
Cabinet , No. 1563 .
52 10 15 Portion of a sporangium : n , sporangium wall ; mother-cells of spores ; o , o , spores .
X 150 .
Cabinet , No. 1583 53 10 16 Lateral view of the lowest preserved segment , of the specimen of which fig. 1 is a transverse section .
X 2^ 53 10 17 f- Inferior surface of the specimen , fig. 16 : medullary canal ( between a and h the concentric inflexions of the nodal disk are seen , probably at its under j ORGANISATION OF THE FOSSIL PLANTS OF THE COAL-MEASURES ; Plate .
Fig. ; Pages on which | references are made to the figures .
11 18 surface ) ; k , k , bracts , springing from h , the margin of the nodal disk ; i , verticil of ten large cortical lacunae in the nodal disk ; , twenty smaller and more peripheral lacunae , from the outer angle of each of which a sporangiophore springs .
X 2| .
A transverse section of a portion of the disk of fig. 17 : 51 , 53 9 19 c , c , a pair of internodal canals ; two of the larger lacunae ; i " , i " , five of the twenty smaller ones ; h , h , parenchyma of the nodal disk ; l ' , vascular bundles .
X 13 Badial section of a young Calamite for comparison 51 , 53 9 20 with fig. 6 : b , medulla ; c , internodal canals ; d , youngest vessels at the node f Restored vertical section through the lower part of a 54 strobilus : a , the central or medullary canal of the peduncle , fig. 11 , prolonged upwards into the strobilus ; b , medulla ; c , internodal canals ; d ' , youngest vessels at each node ; d , reduced vascular bundle prolonged through each internode ; f , f , nodes ; A , thickened central part of the cortical nodal disk ; i , i , two of the large cortical lacunae , cut across in fig. 4 ; k , free bracts fringing the margin of each nodal disk ; l , sporangiophores ; m , outer verticils of sporangia ; minner verticils of sporangia ; n , sporangial walls 54 All the above references to the " Cabinet " indicate that each specimen so referred to will be found in my cabinet under the number assigned to it in the text .
This cabinet will finally be placed in the Botanical Department of the Museum of the Owens College , where future students of Pakeo-Botany will have free access to it .
Whether such observers confirm my views or otherwise , they will have no difficulty in examining for themselves nearly all the specimens upon which those views have been based .
f Phil. Trans. 1888 B.Plate 8 Wuimson Y !
liL Trans. 188 Plate 9 .
ftJmrnson _ Phil. Trans. 1888 Via .
17 .
Phil. Traits 1888 B.PL 11 .

