198 On a Fermentation causing Separation of Cystin .
[ Feb. 20 , II .
" On a Fermentation causing the Separation of Cystin .
" ( Preliminary Communication .
) By Sheridan Delepine , M.B. , B.Sc. Communicated by T. Lauder Brunton , M.D. , F.R.S. Received February 13 , 1390 .
During the months of March and April , 1889 , I analysed for Dr. Lauder Brunton , and under his direction , a number of specimens of urine containing cystin .
The estimation of the amount of this substance present in the samples examined was carried out by Lobisch 's process , and revealed certain variations which were of interest as connecting the elimination of cystin with the processes of digestion .
In carrying out this work , I was struck with the fact that the amount of cystin precipitated from the same specimen was greater under certain circumstances than under others .
Thus , ( 1 ) when specimens were strongly acidified with acetic as recommended by Lobisch , the precipitation took place more slowly than if the specimens were allowed to undergo a spontaneous acid fermentation ( which never caused the reaction to become very strongly acid ) .
( 2 .
) When the fluids were carefully filtered ' , the precipitation of cystin was delayed , often for several days .
( 3 .
) When a specimen in which cystin had begun to separate was carefully filtered , the precipitation was interrupted for several days .
( 4 .
) When portions of a urine which was proved by collateral experiments to contain cystin were kept at a temperature of 60 ' C. , no cystin could be separated afterwards by the usual processes .
( 5 .
) Evaporation did not seem to increase materially the amount of cystin obtainable from a given specimen .
( 6 .
) The largest amounts of cystin could be obtained by allowing the specimens to stand at the ordinary temperature for several days , provided the precipitate was separated whilst the urine was still acid .
( 7 .
) A similar amount of cystin could be obtained more rapidly by keeping the fluid at a temperature of less than 40 ' C. for twenty-four to thirty-six hours .
( 8 .
) When a drop of urine from which cystin was being deposited , and which contained a large number of bacteria and torulse , was added to a carefully filtered portion of the same urine , a deposit of cystin occurred in the filtrate thus inoculated in twenty-four hours , the urine becoming at the same time full of bacteria and torulse , while another portion of the same filtrate not inoculated deposited no cystin for ninety-six hours .
I venture to suggest as the most probable explanation of the above results\#151 ; ( 1 .
) That the simple addition of an acid in which cystin is not soluble is not sufficient to separate cystin from the urine , and , therefore , that the theory generally held as to the state of combination of cystin in the urine is probably inaccurate .
1890 .
] Development of the Brain of Clupea harengus .
199 ( 2 .
) That a compound exists in certain urines which under the influence of a fermentation yields cystin .
( 3 .
) That the fermentation is due to the growth of an organism , which can apparently be separated from the urine by ordinary filtration , and must therefore be a large organism , possibly a torula .
( 4 .
) That the cases recorded in which cystin has been found deposited in the kidneys and liver indicate that the fermentation may begin in the system .
III .
" Some Stages in the Development of the Brain of Clupea harengus fBy Ernest W. L. Holt , Marine Laboratory , St. Andrews .
Communicated by Professor MclNTOSH , F.R.S. Received February 11 , 1890 .
( Abstract .
) The stages described are ( i ) newly-hatched or early larval ; ( ii ) early post-larval ; ( iii ) inch long ; ( iv ) ^-inch long .
The development of the pineal region is treated separately , and in this a fifth stage\#151 ; ly^-inch long\#151 ; is introduced .
In the early larval stage the downward flexure of the fore part of the brain is very noticeable .
It appears due to the general conformation of head at this stage .
The cerebral lobes are short ; the anterior commissure is well marked .
The white matter of the cerebrum is divided into two patches on each side , from the most ventral of which the short stout olfactory nerves pass to the bases of the nasal sacs , now closely opposed to the cerebrum .
The roof of the cerebrum is very thin , passing into the thicker roof of the thalamencephalon .
The tips of the optic thalami are wholly vesicular .
A diverticulum of the 3rd ventricle extends downwards and backwards , its distal extremity underlying the optic commissure .
The broad ventral commissure of the infundibulum , noticed in Anarrhicas , * is well marked .
A commissure shuts off the lumen of the infundibulum from the hind part of the 3rd ventricle immediately in front of the splitting off of the infundibulum .
The optic ventricles do not appear in the front part of the mid-brain , and are only partially developed further back .
The tori semicirculares are present in the hind part of the mid-brain as mounds on either side of the central fissure of the cerebral mass .
The valvula appears in transverse section as a pair of ridges externally to the tori , before it shuts off the aqueduct of Sylvius .
rl he cerebellar fold is very short ; the pituitary body is a roundish mass of deeply staining cells , opposed ventrally to the membranous roof of the mouth , and clasped in front and at the sides * McIntosh and Prince , ' Edinb .
Roy .
Soc. Trans.vol .
35 .

