II .
" Note on the Decomposition of Sulphuric Acid by Pentachloride of Phosphorus .
" By ALEXANDER WILLIAMSON , Ph. D. , F.C.S. , Professor of Practical Chemistry in University College .
Communicated by Dr. SHARPEY , Sec. R.S. Received February 23 , 1854 .
Chemists have long been aware of the fact that some acids unite with bases in one proportion only , others in two or more proportions .
Thus a given quantity of nitric acid forms with what is termed its equivalent of potash , a definite nitrate of potash ; if less than this equivalent quantity of potash were added to the nitric acid , the product would be a mechanical mixture of the same nitrate of potash with uncombined nitric acid ; if more than the equivalent of potash were added , the excess of alkali would remain uncombined .
Sulphuric acid , on the other hand , is capable of forming two compounds with potash , and it depends upon the proportions in which the two substances are brought together whether the neutral or acid sulphate is formed .
The number of compounds which an acid forms with one base is now considered as indicating its atomic weight .
The weights of sulphuric and nitric acids which are respectively susceptible of neutralizing the same quantity of potash are termed equivalent , but these are by no means the same as their atomic weights .
Sixtythree parts of nitric acid ( nitrate of water ) contains the same quantity of hydrogen as forty-five parts of sulphuric acid , and when they are neutralized by potash the whole of this hydrogen is removed and replaced by potassium ; and if neither of the acids could combine in any other proportion with potash , their atomic weights would be the same as their equivalent weights .
But sulphuric acid also forms a potash compound in which half of its hydrogen is replaced by potasslum , the other half remaining in the compound , whereas the smallest particles of nitric acid either exchange the whole or none of their hydrogen for potassium .
This fact is expressed in the simplest possible manner by the statement that the smallest indivisible particles of sulphuric acid contain two atoms of hydrogen , whilst those of nitric acid only contain one .
Thus it is , that whereas the equivalent weights of the two acids are the quantities which contain the same amount of basic hydrogen , their atomic weights must be in the proportion of two equivalents of sulphuric to one of nitric acid .
The simplest expression for an atom of nitric acid being empirically NO3 H , we shall accordingly represent an atom of sulphuric acid by the formula S04 , H. In like manner , an atom of common phosphoric acid , being tribasic , is expressed empirically by the formula P04 H3 .
The labours of Messrs. Laurent and Gerhardt greatly contributed to the establishment of these results , which are uncontroverted .
We have hitherto been accustomed to resort very freely to imaginary distinctions of form and arrangement of matter to explain the differences of properties ; but of late years an opposite tendency has arisen , and chemists have felt the necessity of reducing their language and ideas to simpler and more consistent forms .
This necessity was first felt in the most complex , i. e. the so-called organic part of chemistry .
But the simplifications thus introduced have proved to be equally applicable to the inorganic part of the science ; and their introduction is calculated to disengage , for the consideration of substantial differences of composition , the attention which has hitherto been absorbed by imaginary distinctions of form .
Being unable to express the constitution of compounds without some formal artifice , we shall be able to see and compare their substantial differences most easily when all unnecessary variations of those formal artifices are eliminated .
The success of this operation of course depends on our finding one form sufficiently general to replace the special and limited forms now employed .
In some papers published in the Journal of the Chemical Society two or three years ago , I endeavoured to show that the constitution of salts may be reduced to the type of water ; that acids and bases being , truly , acid salts and basic salts , are perfectly conformable to the same principle ; and that , amongst other things , the difference between monobasic and bibasic acids , &amp;c. admits of a simple and easy explanation by it .
The leading propositions in those papers have been adopted by several eminent chemists in this country and in France ; and M. Gerhardt speedily enriched science with a series of brilliant and striking illustrations of their truth .
As regards the constitution of bibasic acids , M. Gerhardt 's results were , however , at variance with that theory ; and he was led to represent them by formulae equally inconsistent with his own previous views on the subject .
I believe that this discrepancy is satisfactorily removed by the facts I have the honour of submitting to the consideration of the Society .
An atom of nitric acid , being eminently monobasic , is , as we have already shown , represented in the monobasic type HO by the formula ( NO ) , in which peroxide of nitrogen ( NO , ) replaces one atom of hydrogen .
In like manner , hydrate of potash ( HI ) is obtained by replacing one atom of hydrogen in the type by its equivalent of potassium ; and nitrate of potash ( NO ) by a simultaneous substitution of one atom of hydrogen by peroxide of nitrogen , the other by potassium .
Sulphuric acid is formed from two atoms of H0 water ; one of hydrogen from each is removed , and the two H ?
replaced by the indivisible radical SO2 .
The series Sulphuric acid .
Acid sulphate of potash .
Neutral sulphate of potash .
HO HO Ko SO , SO , SO0 H0 K0 KS explains itself .
Chemists have long known how to remove the basylous constituents H , K , &amp;c. of these salts , and to replace them by others .
But it is only recently that they have learnt to remove the chlorous radicals SO , , NO , , &amp;c. in a similar manner .
To obtain the chloride of potassium from its sulphate , it is sufficient to bring the latter into liquid contact with chloride of barium ; but the same reagent would be powerless for the preparation of the chlorides of the radicals SO , or NO .
M. Cahours has shown us a reagent ( the pentachloride of phosphorus ) which is capable of forming from a great number of monobasic acids the chlorides of the acid radicals .
Whilst extending our knowledge of the action of the body on monobasic and organic acids , and preparing numerous compounds of their radicals with one atom of chlorine , M. Gerhardt examined also the nature of its action upon bibasic acids and their compounds ; and states that it consists of two successive phases , first , the liberation of the anhydrous acid , secondly , the substitution of two atoms of chlorine for one of oxygen in that anhydrous acid .
These facts , if correct , would be unfavourable to the above view of the constitution of sulphuric and the other bibasic acids ; and M. Gerhardt adopted accordingly the old formulae , representing in their composition an atom of water ready-formed , SO3 H 0O .
Confining my remarks for the present to the case of sulphuric acid , whose decomposition is doubtless typical of that of other bibasic acids , I may state as the result of numerous experiments with the most varied proportions of pentachloride and acid , performed on a scale of considerable magnitude , that the first action of the pentachloride consists in removing one atom of hydrogen and one of oxygen ( empirically peroxide of hydrogen ) from the acid , putting in Ho an atom of chlorine in their place and forming the compound SO2 , C1 which is strictly intermediate between the hydrated acid and the final product SO2 C12 formed by a repetition of the same process of substitution of chlorine for peroxide of hydrogen .
The existence and formation of this body , which we may call chloro-hydrated sulphuric acid , furnishes the most direct evidence of the truth of the notion , that the bibasic character of sulphuric acid is owing to the fact of one atom of its radical SO , replacing or ( to use the customary expression ) being equivalent to two atoms of hydrogen .
Had this radical been divisible like an equivalent quantity of a monobasic acid , we should have obtained a mixture , not a compound of the chloride with the hydrate , -or , at least , the products of decomposition of that mixture .
Chloro-hydrated sulphuric acid boils at 1450 Cent. , distilling without decomposition .
The intensity of its action upon water varies according to the manner in which the two bodies are brought together .
When poured rapidly into a large quantity of cold water , a portion of it sinks to the bottom , and only gradually dissolves as a mixture of hydrochloric and sulphuric acids .
When a small quantity of water is added to the compound , the same decomposition takes place with explosive violence .
The acid dissolves chloride of sodium on the application of a gentle heat with evolution of hydroNa chloric acid , giving rise to a compound of the formula SO2 .
When C1 , poured upon pieces of melted nitre at the atmospheric temperature , an effervescence takes place with evolution of a colourless vapour which possesses in a striking degree the odour of aqua regia .
This vapour may be dissolved in various liquids , and when decomposed by water , yields nitric and hydrochloric acids .
It is doubtless chloro-nitric acid , NO2 C1 .
In like manner the chlorides of other inorganic acid radicals may be obtained , as from chlorates , perchlorates , sulphites , &amp;c. , but of these and other reactions I beg leave to defer any further account until the experiments now in hand are more advanced .
From the general resemblance of properties and identity of boilingpoint of the chloro-hydrate with a compound discovered by Rose , and described by that eminent chemist as possessing empirically the composition S2 O0 C12 , I was led to suspect that the two might in reality be identical , which of course would require the addition of the elements of water to Rose 's formula , and several experiments I have performed afford strong confirmation of that identity .
The same compound is obtained by the action of dry hydrochloric acid on anhydrous sulphuric acid ; and finally , I may mention that Mr. Railton obtained a small quantity of the same substance some weeks ago in my laboratory by the action of platinum-black at a high temperature on an imperfectly dried mixture of chlorine and sulphurous acid .
As regards the successive transformations effected in the pentachloride , I have observed the formation of Wurtz 's oxychloride ( the tribasic chloro-phosphoric acid ( PO C13 ) ) , and also of a compound boiling above 145 ?
, probably PO .
Cl. Hydrated phosphoric acid is always found unless the amount of pentachloride added is very great .

