XIX .
Observations and Experiments on Vision .
PBy WilliamCharles Wells , M D. F. R. S. Read July 4th , i18 i I. I WAS consulted , in bine egining of the year iSg,9 upon a disease of vision , which , as far as I know , has not hitherto been mentioned by any author .
The subject of it was a gentleman about thirty-five years old , very tall , and incliingi to : be corpulent .
About a month before I saw him , he had been attacked with a catarrh ; and as this was leaving him , , he was .
seized with a slight stupor , and a feeling of weight in his forehead .
He began at the same time to see less distinctly than : formerly with his right eye , and to lose the powe r of moving its upper lid .
The pupil of the same eye was ' now also observed to be much dilated .
In a few days , the left eye became similarly aifected with the right , but in a less degree .
Such was the account of the case , which I received from the patient himself , and from the surgeon who attended him .
The former added , that previously to his present ailment his sight had always been so good , that he had never used glasses oft any kind to improve it .
On examining his eyes myself , I could not discover in them any other appearance of disease , than that their pupils , the right particularly , were much too large , and that their size was little affected by the quantity of light which passed through them .
At first , I thought that : their dilatation was occasioned by a defect of sensibility in the 1o2 iftudzia/ secti ?
ovi f ?
cAeAalIe &amp; t 6t 092345678 1o S 1Seton .
fSchke/ 6allZ46 1Z9 1 -.UI_ ... _ .
, ---------- ?
---- ?
-------------------------- ?
?- ?
--§§------ ?
----- ?
---I--I'-----c~I li II " I NT l. I5 17 _ !
oo .
M 12 13 34 -iT5 1r6 17 ioov -F 4j % , 19 i. Jl..e f ot4e Merdiaz of 0 te Soit4 Oserrz1try .
-"Pzal-~e./ , / 1f .
, S't bea tenW tr(og , tae two Cczzp7zs S &amp; " K ; eaTznf from te er &lt; id Tj.5,18 , 2 retinas but I was quickly obliged to abandon this opinion , as the patient assured me , that his sensation of liglt was as strong , as it had ever been during any former period of his life .
I next inquired , whether objects at different distances appeared to him equally distinct .
He answered , that he saw distant objects accurately , and in proof told me what the hour was , by a remote public clock ; but he added , that the letters of a book seemed to him so confused , that it was with difficulty he could make out the words which they composed .
He was now desired to look at a page of a printed book through spectacles with convex glasses .
He did so , and found that he could read it with ease .
From these circumstances it was very plain , that this gentleman , at the same time that his pupils had become dilated , and his upper eye-lids paralytic , had acquired the sight of an old man , by losing suddenly the command of the muscles , by which the eye is enabled to see near objects distinctly ; it being known to those , who are cohversant with the facts relating to human vision , that the eye in its relaxed state is fitted for distant objects , and that the seeing of near objects accurately is dependant upon muscular exertion .
The disease of which I have spoken is perhaps not ex ' tremely rare .
For having related the preceding , instance of it to Mr. WARE , a Fellow of this Society , he was kind enough shortly after to send to me a young woman , who appeared to be likewise affected with it .
Eut as I saw her only once , and had not then sufficient time to examine her case minutely , I speak with diffidence concerning its nature , II .
After I had reflected frequently upon these cases , it occurred to me , that , as the juice of the herb B , lladonna , when applied to the eye , occasions the pupil to dilate considerably , and to become unalterable by light , an effect might t at te same time be produced by it upon vision , similar to that whihl I have just described .
I had , indeed , in the course of a few years immediately preceding , applied Belladonna several times to my own eyes , without observing any change in my sight , beyond what I referred to the increased size of the pupils ; but as I had not looked for any other , I thought it possible , that some additional one might have happened , without my having perceived it .
I resolved therefore to make the experiment anew .
But to conduct it with precision , it was previously necessary to know , to what extent I possessed the faculty of adapting my eyes to difterent distances .
On this , subject I had made many experiments with great care , nearly twenty years before , and had ascertained , * that with my left eye , which was more perfect t-han the right , I could bring to single points on the retina percils of rays , whicEh flowed from every distance , greater than that of seveni inches from the cornea .
In the mean time , however , my eyes had altered considerably , with respect .
to their seeing near objects distinctly , and I had , in consequence , been obliged , not only to use convex glasses , but to change them several times for uothers of higher power .
No dependence therefore being now to be placed in my former experiments , in regard to the present state of my sight , I repeated them , and found , to my great surprise , that the power I once possessed of adapting my eyes to different distances was entirely gone ; in other words , that I was now obliged to regard all objects , whether near or remote , in the same refractive state of those organso I found also , that my eyes , considered as mere optical instru-Essay on SiIgle Vision with two eyes , &amp;c. p. 137 ' 880o ments , were nearly the same as they had been in my youth , and that the convex glasses which I used did vey little more , than supply , with respect to near objects , the place of a living opower which I ' had lost , without compensating , except in a very small degree , for any alteration in the external shape of the eye , or any change in the cozifiguration of its interior parts .
I ascertained , for instance , that to give my left eye the refractive power which it formerly possessed w !
ile in i:s most relaxed state , that by which it was enabled to bring a pencil of parallel rays to a point on thie retina , a glass of thirty-six inchles focus was filly sufficient ; whereas to produce an equal effect upon rays proceeding from a point at the distance of seven inches from my eye , the other extremity of my ancient range of perfect vision , I was now obliged to employ a glass having a focus of only six inches .
I regret much , that I had not made suchI experiments frequently before , as I think it very probable , that I should have found a p3eriod in the progress of my vison to its present state , in which my capacity of seeing distant jects was the same as in my youth , an when therefore the whole of my imperfect vision of near objects would have been owing to a loss of the muscular powers of my eye .
As there can be no good reason for supposing , that the changes which have occurred in my eyes are different from those , which the eyes of by far the greater number of persons , who are not short-sighted , undergo at the approach of old age , it is evident , that the experiments of Dr. YouNG* on the eye of HIANSON , whom the learned author considered as a very fair subject for such trials , furnish no proof , that the Phl .
Tranis .
x8ox , p. 66 .
want of the crystalline lens disables a person from having perfect vision at different distances ; for as HANSON was sixty three years old , it is highly probable , that the results of the experiments would have been exactly the same , if he had still possessed that part of his eye .
III .
IHaving discovered that my own eyes were unfit for the experiments , which I wished to be made with Belladonna , I instructed an ingenious young physician , Dr. CUTTING , from the island of Barbadoes , and now residing there , in the manner elsewhere described by me , * of ascertaining his range of perfect vision by means of luminous points .
This he found , in consequence , to begin , with respect to his left eye , at the distance of six inches , and not to terminate at the distance of eight feet , beyond which he could not see clearly the object , with which he had hitherto made his experiments , the image of the flame of a candle in the bulb of a small thermometer .
The flame of a lamp , distant about sixty yards , gave a faint indication of its rays meeting before they fell upon the retina ; the rays from a star had very evidently their focus a little before that membrane .
le now applied the juice of Belladonna to his left eye .
Half an hour after , when his pupil was but little dilated , perfect vision commenced at the distance of seven inches ; in fifteen minutes more , it began at the distance of three feet and a half .
When his pupil had acquired its greatest enlargement , the rays from the image of the flame of a candle , in the bulb of a small thermometer at the distance of eight feet , could not be prevented from converging to a point behind the retina .
The rays from lamps still more distant , and from stars , had their focuses at the same time on Essay on Single Vision , &amp;c. p. x i6 .
the retina .
This state of vision continued , in its greatest extent , to the following day ; and it was not till the ninthl day after the application of the BelLadonna , that he completely recovered the power of adapting his eye to near objects .
While his left eye was thus aff cted , the vision of the right remained unaltered .
Dr. CUTTING rem:arked , Awhie his left eye was returning to its natural condition , tRat the diminution of the pupil , and the increase of the range of perfect vision , did not keep regular pace with each other ; but that after his pupil had nearly returned to its former size , his capacity of adapting the eye to , dierent distances was still very liniited .
As these effects therefore are not inseparably connected , they may occur in others in a different manner from that which he observed .
A , great degree of dilatation , for example , may take place in the pupil , without a total want of the power to adapt the eye to different distances. .
Though I could not doubt the accuracy of Dr. CUTTING'S ; observations , more especially as the altered state of his eye , had lasted a consiiderable time , and as he had not been'prevented by other occupations from1 attendinhg minutely to the : appearances , which were con-sequent upon it ; yet , as li'e was the first person who had ever apjpied 3Beiladonna to his eye , for the purpose which has been ' me'tioned , and as the results had been remarkable , I requested hi to rep ; , eat the ' experiment with his other eye .
He complied with my desire , and found , that the appearances which fullowed were sirliar to those , which had been produced by the application of Beliadonna to his left eye .
It will , perlaps , be thought extraordinary , that Dr ' CUTTING'S eye in its relaxed state , before the application of the Belladonna , brought parallel rays to a focus anterior to the retina ; but that similar rays met in a point upon the retina , while the eye was under the full influence of that substance ; as it may hence seem , that the Belladonna had done more than rmerely suspend the exercise of the power , by which the eye is fitted to see near objects distinctly .
An observation drawn from the former state of -my own sight will , I expect , make this matter plain .
Whet I enjoyed the faculty of adapting my eyes to objects at different distances , the rays of a star , which was viewed attentively by me , always met in a point a little before the retina ; * whence I at first concluded , that my eye was unfit for accurate vision by parallel rays .
But I afterwards found , that if I looked at a star carelessly , its rays had then their concourse on the retina .
In the former case , from long habit , originating in my having chliefly viewed near objects with attention , some small exertion as made for the accurate view of a distant object , though none was requisite ; in the latter , all demand for exertion ceasing , my eye fell into the most relaxed condition , that by which it was fitted for parallel rays , Dr. CUTTING ' eye seems to have been similar to what my own once was , in regard to such rays ; but as he had not acquired the faculty of viewing a distant object , without making some exertion , the rays from a star crossed one another in his eye before they came to the retina .
The capacity , however , of making any exertion was takena away by the Belladonna , and pencils of parallel rays were , in consequence , brought to points upon that membrane .
Essay on Sinigle Vision , &amp;c. p 138 .
3884 IV .
Being now in possession of a new instrument , I next attempted to gain , by means of it , some illustration of the changes , which the vsion of short-sighted persons undergoes from age .
It has been very generally , if not universally , asserted by systematic writers upon vision , that the short-sighted are rendered by age fitter for seeing distant objects than they were in their youth. .
But this opinion appears to me unfounded in fact , and to rest altogether upon a false analogy .
If those *who possess ordinary vision , when young , become , from the flatness of the cornea , or other changes in the mere structure of the eye , long-sighted as they approach to old age , it follows , that the short-sighted must , from similar changes , become better fitted to see distant objects .
Such appears to have been their reasoning .
But the course pursued by nature seems : very different from that which they have assigned to her .
For of four short-sighted persons of my acquaintance , , the ages of whom are between fifty-four and sixty years , and into .
the state of whose vision I have inquired particularly , two ; have not observed that their vision has changed since they were young , and two have lately become , in respect to distant objects , more short-sighted t th they were formerly .
Ass he manner , in which this chatge has occurred , is unnoticed , , I believe , by any preceding author , I shall here relate the : more remarkable of the two cases .
A gentleman , who is a Fellow of this Society , became shortsight.ed in early life , .
and as his profession obliiged hinm to attend very much to miniute visible objects , he for many years wore spectacles with concavxe glasses almost constantly , by the aid of which he saw as distinctly , and at as grea a varity of distances , as those who enjoy the most perfect vision .
At the age of fifty , however , he began to observe , that distant obects , though viewed through his glasses , appeared indistinct , and he was hetce led to fear , that his eyes were affeited with some disease .
But happening one day to take up , in an optician 's shop , a single concave glass , and to hold it before one of his eyes , while his spectacles were on , he found to his great joy , that he had regaired distinct vision of distant objects .
With regard to such objects , therefore , he had lately become shorter-sighted than he had formerly been .
But along with this change , another occurred of a directly opposite kind .
For when he wished to examine a minute object attentively , such as he used to see accurately by means of his spectacles , he now found it necessary to lay them aside , and to employ his naked eye .
He had become , therefore , in respect to near objects longer-sighted .
The power , consequently , in this gentleman , to adapt the eye to dil'rent distances , is either totally lost or much diminished ; but the point , or small space to which his perfect vision is now confined , instead of being the most remote to which he could formerly accommodate his eyes , as is commonly the case with the ordinarily sighted when they are becoming old , is now placed between the two extremes of his former range of accurate vision .
The eyes of the other short-sighted person , , a physician of considerable learning , whose vision has been altered by age , have been affected in a similar manner , but not in so great a degree .
As the only change , which had occurred from age in the sight of such of my acquaintance as were considerably myopic was a lessening , on both sides , of their range of perfect vision , I conceived that this might be the ordinary procedure of,38G ature in suc cases , and that it might be imitated , in a young short-sighted person , by the application of Belladonnta to his eyes .
I lave hitherto not been able to obtain permission to make the experiment on any you ng person , who is very shortsighted .
Two gentlemen , however , who are sonewhat shortsighted , have readily submnitted to it ; one of them , Mr. BLUN &gt; DTLL , a diligent and ingenious studett of medcine ; the other , Mr. PA'TRIK , a well educated young surgeon in London .
The first experimrent was on Mr. BLUNDELL , and the apparent result was , that the range of his accturate vision was 1onsiderably diininshed at both ends , but not annihilated .
Mr. BLUNDELL , however , afterwards nfrorined me , that le repeated the experinent with 'ore care int the country , and fovnd , that in one eye the nearest point of perfect vision was moved forward aboout tvwo-thirds of the whole range , and in the , other about one-third ; but that , with respect to both eyes , the most remnote points oof the ranges were unchanged .
Hle added , that while one eye was under the influence of the Belladonn3a , the other became shorter-sighted than it had been before ; but the difference was not so great , as to induce mei to place entire confidence in the justiness of his observation .
I t-nk it right to mention here , that from mistake I applied only twothirds of the ordinary quantity of Belladonna to his eye , in the first experiment ; and that he probably , in consequence of my examnple , applied no more when h ade te n se cc:cnd ; as ithis might I ave been the reason , that during both ex ' erInti , t etts ae retained , in part , the capacity of adapting his eyes to diif rent distances , The experiment on Mr. PATRICK was conducted by myseif , aftcer e hhad been frequently exercised in observing the extent ' QD of his perfect vision .
The results were similar to those which had been rermarked by Dr. CUTTING .
The power of altering the adaptation of his eye , according to the distance of the objects viewed , was for some time entirely lost , and his sight became accurately fitted for such only , as were placed at the farther extremity of his former range of perfect vision .
While one eye was under the influence of the Belladonna , the vision of the other was unaffected .
From these experiments it seems probable , that Belladonna will in no case produce the same effect upon a young shortsigl ted person , that age has produced in the two instances of which I have spoken .
I expect , however , to have an opportunity of-repeating the experiment on two persons , who are very considerably short-sighted , and I shall take the liberty of communnicating the result to the Royal Society , together with sone observations I have already made , and others which I hope to make , respecting those persons , who seem to retain to ext-reme old age the power of seeing perfectly , as far as the accommodating power of the eye is concerned , both distant and near objects ; and of others , who , after being without this power for many years , appear to regain it at a similar period of life .
Probably the making known my intention may facilitate its accomplishment , by inducing other Fellows of the Society to furnish me with opportunities of increasing my knowledge of these subjects .
In the mean time , I slall offer a few words upon two other topics in vision , which seem to derirve illustration from my experiments with Belladonna . ?
V l. Not only do the p upils move t ogether , when both eyes are in a healthy state , but the pupil of one eye aficted with guitta serena ioves with the pupil of the other , as long as this:88 'emains sound .
These facts are generally , but in my opinion erroneously , attributed to an immediate sympathy between the pupils .
For when the pupil of one eye becomes dilated from the application of Belladonna , the pupil of the other , so far from dilating , becomes smaller .
It follows , therefore , that the size of the pupil is dependant , not only on the impression of light on the retina of its own eye , but on that also which is made on the retina of the other , and that the moving of the two toget-her , which for the most part takes place , is only an accidental consequence of the fact which I have mentioned .
2 .
As the action of the external muscles of the eye has been frequently resorted to , for an explanation of its capacity to see objects perfecitly at dTiferent distances , I requested Dr. CUTTING to ate nd to this matter .
ie accordingly ascertained , whil:e his eye was in its natural state , the distance from his face of the nearest point , at which he could make the two optic axes ' , Ieet , this being the greatest trial of strength , to which those muscles can be exposed .
Shortly after , he repeated the experiments , while , in consequence of the applica .
tion of Belladonna , he was without the power of adapting his eye to different distances , and found , that the strength of those muscles was not diminished .
It follows , therefore , not only that the external muscles have little or no concern in fitting the eye to see distinctly at different distances , but that the same is true with respect to the cornea , as we cannot suppose , that its mechanical properties were altered by the Belladonna , or at least , that it became more inflexible from the application to it of the juice of that herb .
I had before ade a similar experiment on myself , by tcom pa ; ing that had been the strength of the external imusces of mvy cey , t.Swenty years 389 ago , '* with what it was after I had lost the power of altering ' tlcir reftactive state ; but though I found no difference , yety as their coats might have in the mean time become more rigid , I thought it right to have the experiment repa , ia manner to which no objection could be taken .
The only other part of the eye , or its appendages , which remains for enabling us to see equally well at very differet d.isances , is the crystalline ; and that it does produce this effect , either wholly , or very nearly so , is manifest , from the necessity even young persons are under , who have lost it , of using lasses of very different convexities for near and remote objects .
Bt in what way this important office is performed by it seems still unknown .
The learned Dr. YOUNG , indeed , as well as others before him , has supposed , that the crystalline has the power of altering its figure ; but the proofs hitherto given in favour of this opinion appear very defective .
In 1794 , I attempted to submit its justness to the test of direct experiments , by applying to the crystallines of oxen , which had been felled from thirty seconds to a minute before , chemical and mechanical stimuli , and those of Galvanism and electricity ; but in no instance was any alteration of firure , or other indication of muscular power , observed .
All of these stimuli were applied to the crystalline while it was surrounded by air , and some of them while it was covered with warm v ater .
Last summer , after I knew that men lose , fom increase of years , the faculty of alieringt tae refractive state of the eye , I thought it possible , that the oxen on which I had made the experiments were too old for them .
I therefore repeated most of tenm on the crysialines of a ca'f and a lamb ; but t Essa on Single Vision , &amp;c. p. i36 .
still no motion was to be seen .
Dr. YouNG ha made similar experiments with a similar event ; but he thnks tat no argment can hence be derived against his opinion , as neither can motion be excited in the uvea , by any artificial stimulus .
n the first place , however , it is not agreeable to just reasoning to regard an unknown thing as an exception to a general rule , rather than as an example of t ; in th second , ie motions of the uea are involuntary , whereas the adaptation of the eye is , in art at least , under the comrnand of the will ; and in the third , the crystalline seems very unfit for performing the motions which he assigns to it ; for if its figure be altered out of the body , by external force , it does not restore itself , but retains the shape which has been given to it , like a piece of dough , or soft clay .
Possibly further experiments with Bel ladonna may contribute to remove the obscxrity , which at present surrounds this subject .

