320 Dr. L. C. Wooldridge .
[ Apr. 8 , April 8 , 1886 .
Professor STOKES , D.C.L. , President in the Chair .
The Presents received were laid on the table , and thanks ordered for them .
The Croonian Lecture was delivered :\#151 ; I. Croonian Lecture.\#151 ; " On the Coagulation of the Blood .
" By L. C. Wooldridge , M.B. , D.Sc .
, Demonstrator of Physiology in Guy 's Hospital and Research Scholar to the Grocers ' Company .
Communicated by Professor M. Foster , Sec. R.S. Received April 6 , 1886 .
( Abstract .
) 1 .
As to the relation of the corpuscular elements of the blood to coagulation .
The plasma itself contains all the elements necessary for coagulation .
The white blood corpuscles probably aid coagulation to a certain extent , but their influence is entirely secondary .
The really important factor in initiating coagulation is a substance dissolved in the plasma , discovered by the author , and called by him A-fibrinogen .
Lymph cells differ from white blood corpuscles ; they are very active in inducing coagulation .
2 .
As to the chemical processes of coagulation , the author considers there are three coagulable bodies present in the plasma .
These he names A- , B- , and C-fibrinogen.* They are closely allied to one another , and are not separated by a sharp line from one another .
C-fibrinogen is identical .with the body which has hitherto been known as fibrinogen , but it is only present in minimal quantities in blood plasma ; it is coagulable with fibrin ferment .
The bulk of the coagulable matter of the plasma is B-fibrinogen ; it clots on the addition of lecithin ; it does not clot with fibrin ferment ; it clots with leucocytes from lymph glands .
A-fibrinogen is separable from the plasma by cooling ; it separates as minute , regular , rounded granules ; it is not coagulable by fibrin ferment .
A- and B-fibrinogen are compounds of proteid and lecithin .
The * These names are provisional .
1886 .
] On the Coagulation of the Blood .
essential point in the coagulation of the blood is a loss of lecithin on the part of A-fibrinogen , and a gain of lecithin on the part of B-fibrinogen .
A-fibrinogen loses some of its lecithin to B-fibrinogen , and the result is that in the place of the two fibrinogens we have fibrin .
Previous authors have all regarded coagulation as essentially a fermentative process .
The author regards the fibrin ferment as purely subsidiary , and considers that coagulation is nearly allied to crystallisation .
3 .
In the fluid of lymph glands from which all the cellular elements have been removed , another form of fibrinogen exists closely allied to and probably the precursor of the A-fibrinogen of the blood .
It differs from the latter in causing intravascular clotting , * whereas A-fibrinogen only causes under normal conditions clotting in shed blood .
It is a proteid-lecithin compound , and its action can be shown to depend on the lecithin it contains .
It has a wide distribution apart from lymph glands .
In the fluid of serous cavities of certain animals , the only coagulable body present is C-fibrinogen , and since the blood of these animals contains both A- and B-fibrinogen , the vascular wall either only allows C-fibrinogen to pass , or changes A- and B-fibrinogen into C-fibrinogen in their passage through .
# Vide " Proc. Roy .
Soc. , " vol. 40 , p. 134 .

