A paper was read , " On an artificial Substance resembling Shell ; by Leonard Horner , Esq. , F.R.S. L. and Ed. : with an account of the examination of the same ; by Sir David Brewster , K.H. , LL. D. , F.R.S. , &amp;c. " The author , having noticed a singular incrustation on both the in ?
ternal and external surfaces of a wooden dash-wheel , used in bleaching , at the Cotton Factory of Messrs. J. Finlay and Co. , at Catrine , in Ayrshire , instituted a minute examination of the properties and composition of this new substance .
He describes it as being compact in its texture , of a brown colour , and highly polished surface , with a metallic lustre , and presenting in some parts a beautiful iridescent appearance : when broken , it exhibits a foliated structure .
Its ob ?
vious resemblance , in all these respects , to many kinds of shell , led the author to inquire into its intimate mechanical structure , and into the circumstances of its formation .
He found , by chemical analysis , that it was composed of precisely the same ingredients as shell - , namely , carbonate of lime and animal matter .
The presence of the former was easily accounted for $ as the cotton cloths which are placed in the compartments of the wheel , in order that they may be thoroughly cleansed by being dashed against its sides , during its rapid revolutions , have been previously steeped and boiled in lime water .
But it was more difficult to ascertain the source of the animal matter ; this , however , was at length traced to the small portion of glue , which , in the factory where the cloth had been manufactured , was employed as an ingredient in forming the paste , or dressing , used to smooth and stiffen the warp before it is put into the loom .
These two ma ?
terials , namely lime and gelatine , being present in the water in a state of extreme division , are deposited very slowly by evaporation ; and thus compose a substance which has a remarkable analogy to shell , not only in external appearance , and even pearly lustre , but also in its internal foliated structure , and which likewise exhibits the same optical properties with respect to double refraction and polarizing powers .
A letter from Sir David Brewster , to whom the author had sub2f mitted for examination various specimens of this new substance , is subjoined ; giving an account of the results of his investigations of its mechanical and optical properties .
He found that it is composed of laminae , which are sometimes separated by vacant spaces , and at others , only slightly coherentj though generally adhering to each other with a force greater than that of the laminae of sulphate of lime , or of mica ; but less than those of calcareous spar .
When the ad ?
hearing plates are separated , the internal surfaces are sometimes co ?
lourless , especially when these surfaces are corrugated or uneven ; but they are almost always covered with an iridescent film of the most brilliant and generally uniform tint , which exhibits all the va ?
riety of colours displayed by thin plates or polarizing laminae .
This substance , like most crystallized bodies , possesses the property of refracting light doubly ; and , as in agate and mother-of-pearl , one of the two images is perfectly distinct , while the other contains a considerable portion of nebulous light , varying with the thickness of the plate , and the inclination of the refracted ray .
Like calcareous spar , it has one axis of double refraction , which is negative j and it gives , by polarized light , a beautiful system of coloured rings .
It belongs to the rhombohedral system , and , as in the Chaux carbonatee basve of Haiiy , the axis of the rhombohedron , or that of double refraction , is perpendicular to the surface of the thin plates .
As mother-of-pearl has , like arragonite , two axes of double refraction ?
this new substance may be regarded as having the same optical relation to cal ?
careous spar that mother-of-pearl has to arragonite .
The flame of a candle , viewed through a plate of this substance , presents two kinds of images ; the one bright and distinct , the others faint and nebulous , and having curvatures , which vary as the incli ?
nation of the plate is changed : the two kinds being constituted by oppositely polarized pencils of light .
On investigating the cause of these phenomena , Sir David Brewster discovered it to be the imper ?
fact crystallization of the substance ; whence the doubly refracting force separates the incident light into two oppositely polarized pen ?
cils , which are not perfectly equal and similar .
In this respect , in ?
deed , it resembles agate , mother-of-pearl , and some other substances ; but it differs from all other bodies in possessing the extraordinary system of composite crystallization , in which an infinite number of crystals are disseminated equally in every possible azimuth , through a large crystalline plate ; having their axes all inclined at the same angle to that of the larger plate , and producing similar phenomena in every direction , and through every portion of the plate : or this remarkable structure may be otherwise described , by saying that the minute elementary crystals form the surfaces of an infinite number of cones , whose axes pass perpendicularly through every part of the larger plate .
An examination of the phenomena of iridescence afforded by this new substance , leads him to the conclusion that the iridescent films are formed at those times when the dash-wheel is at rest , during the night , and that they differ in their nature from the rest of the substance .
These phenomena illustrate in a striking manner some analogous appearances of incommunicable colours presented by motherof-pearl , which had hitherto baffled all previous attempts to explain them ; but which now appear to be produced by occasional intermissions in the processs by which the material of the shell is secreted and deposited in the progress of its formation .

